WAKE-ROBIN

THE WRITINGS OF JOHN BURROUGHS

WITH PORTRAITS AND MANY ILLUSTRATIONS

VOLUME I

PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION

This is mainly a book about the Birds, or more properly an invitation to the study of Ornithology,
and the purpose of the author will be carried out in proportion as it awakens and stimulates
the interest of the reader in this branch of Natural History.

Though written less in the spirit of exact science than with the freedom of love and old acquaintance,
yet I have in no instance taken liberties with facts, or allowed my imagination to influence
me to the extent of giving a false impression or a wrong coloring. I have reaped my harvest
more in the woods than in the study; what I offer, in fact, is a careful and conscientious
record of actual observations and experiences, and is true as it stands written, every word
of it. But what has interested me most in Ornithology is the pursuit, the chase, the discovery;
that part of it which is akin to hunting, fishing, and wild sports, and which I could carry
with me in my eye and ear wherever I went.

I cannot answer with much confidence the poet's inquiry,--

       "Hast thou named all the birds without a gun?"

but I have done what I could to bring home the "river and sky" with the sparrow I heard "singing
at dawn on the alder bough." In other words, I have tried to present a live bird,--a bird in
the woods or the fields,--with the atmosphere and associations of the place, and not merely
a stuffed and labeled specimen.

A more specific title for the volume would have suited me better; but not being able to satisfy
myself in this direction, I cast about for a word thoroughly in the atmosphere and spirit of
the book, which I hope I have found in "Wake-Robin," the common name of the white Trillium,
which blooms in all our woods, and which marks the arrival of all the birds.

 CONTENTS

 INTRODUCTION TO RIVERSIDE EDITION
    I. THE RETURN OF THE BIRDS
   II. IN THE  HEMLOCKS
  III. THE ADIRONDACKS
   IV. BIRDS'-NESTS
    V. SPRING AT THE CAPITAL
   VI. BIRCH BROWSINGS
  VII. THE BLUEBIRD
 VIII. THE INVITATION
       INDEX

 LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

 JOHN BURROUGHS
      Etched by W. H. W. Bicknell, from a daguerreotype
 PARTRIDGE'S NEST
      From a photograph by Herbert W. Gleason
 A CABIN IN THE ADIRONDACKS
      From a photograph by Clifton Johnson
 AMERICAN OSPREY, OR FISH HAWK  (colored)
      From a drawing by L. A. Fuertes
 BIRD'S-FOOT VIOLETS
      From a photograph by Herbert W. Gleason
 BLUEBIRD
      From a drawing by L. A. Fuertes

INTRODUCTION TO RIVERSIDE EDITION

In coming before the public with a newly made edition of my writings, what can I say to my
reader at this stage of our acquaintance that will lead to a better understanding between us?
Probably nothing. We understand each other very well already. I have offered myself as his
guide to certain matters out of doors, and to a few matters indoor, and he has accepted me
upon my own terms, and has, on the whole been better pleased with me than I had any reason
to expect. For this I am duly grateful; why say more? Yet now that I am upon my feet, so as
to speak, and palaver is the order, I will keep on a few minutes longer.

It is now nearly a quarter of a century since my first book, "Wake-Robin," was published. I
have lived nearly as many years in the world as I had lived when I wrote its principal chapters.
Other volumes have followed, and still others. When asked how many there are, I often have
to stop and count them up. I suppose the mother of a large family does not have to count up
her children to say how many there are. She sees their faces all before her. It is said of
certain savage tribes who cannot count above five, and yet who own flocks and herds, that every
native knows when he has got all his own cattle, not by counting, but by remembering each one
individually.

The savage is with his herds daily; the mother has the love of her children constantly in her
heart; but when one's book goes forth from him, in a sense it never returns. It is like the
fruit detached from the bough. And yet to sit down and talk of one's books as a father might
talk of his sons, who had left his roof and gone forth to make their own way in the world,
is not an easy matter. The author's relation to his book is a little more direct and personal,
after all, more a matter of will and choice, than a father's relation to his child. The book
does not change, and, whatever it fortunes, it remains to the end what its author made it.
The son is an evolution out of a long line of ancestry, and one's responsibility of this or
that trait is often very slight; but the book is an actual transcript of his mind, and is wise
or foolish according as he made it so. Hence I trust my reader will pardon me if I shrink from
any discussion of the merits or demerits of these intellectual children of mine, or indulge
in any very confidential remarks with regard to them.

I cannot bring myself to think of my books as "works," because so little "work" has gone to
the making of them. It has all been play. I have gone a-fishing, or camping, or canoeing, and
new literary material has been the result. My corn has grown while I loitered or slept. The
writing of the book was only a second and finer enjoyment of my holiday in the fields or woods.
Not till the writing did it really seem to strike in and become part of me.

A friend of mine, now an old man, who spent his youth in the woods of northern Ohio, and who
has written many books, says, "I never thought of writing a book, till my self-exile, and then
only to reproduce my old-time life to myself." The writing probably cured or alleviated a sort
of homesickness. Such is a great measure has been my own case. My first book, "Wake-Robin,"
was written while I was a government clerk in Washington. It enabled me to live over again
the days I had passed with the birds and in the scenes of my youth. I wrote the book sitting
at a desk in front of an iron wall. I was the keeper of a vault in which many millions of bank-notes
were stored. During my long periods of leisure I took refuge in my pen. How my mind reacted
from the iron wall in front of me, and sought solace in memories of the birds and of summer
fields and woods! Most of the chapters of "Winter Sunshine" were written at the same desk.
The sunshine there referred to is of a richer quality than is found in New York or New England.

Since I left Washington in 1873, instead of an iron wall in front of my desk, I have had a
large window that overlooks the Hudson and the wooded heights beyond, and I have exchanged
the vault for a vineyard. Probably my mind reacted more vigorously from the former than it
does from the latter. The vineyard winds its tendrils around me and detains me, and its loaded
trellises are more pleasing to me than the closets of greenbacks.

The  only time there is a suggestion of an iron wall in front of me is in winter, when ice
and snow have blotted out the landscape, and I find that it is in this season that my mind
dwells most fondly upon my favorite themes. Winter drives a man back upon himself, and tests
his powers of self-entertainment.

Do such books as mine give a wrong impression of Nature, and lead readers to expect more from
a walk or a camp in the woods than they usually get? I have a few times had occasion to think
so. I am not always aware myself how much pleasure I have had in a walk till I try to share
it with my reader. The heat of composition brings out the color and the flavor. We must not
forget the illusions of all art. If my reader thinks he does not get from Nature what I get
from her, let me remind him that he can hardly know what he has got till he defines it to himself
as I do, and throws about it the witchery of words. Literature does not grow wild in the woods.
Every artist does something more than copy Nature; more comes out in his account than goes
into the original experience.

Most persons think the bee gets honey from the flowers, but she does not: honey is a product
of the bee; it is the nectar of the flowers with the bee added. What the bee gets from the
flower is sweet water: this she puts through a process of her own and imparts to it her own
quality; she reduces the water and adds to it a minute drop of formic acid. It is this drop
of herself that gives the delicious sting to her sweet. The bee is therefore the type of the
true poet, the true artist. Her product always reflects her environment, and it reflects something
her environment knows not of. We taste the clover, the thyme, the linden, the sumac, and we
also taste something that has its source in none of these flowers.

The literary naturalist does not take liberties with facts; facts are the flora upon which
he lives. The more and the fresher the facts the better. I can do nothing without them, but
I must give them my own flavor. I must impart to them a quality which heightens and intensifies
them.

To interpret Nature is not to improve upon her: it is to draw her out; it is to have an emotional
intercourse with her, absorb her, and reproduce her tinged with the colors of the spirit.

If I name every bird I see in my walk, describe its color and ways, etc., give a lot of facts
or details about the bird, it is doubtful if my reader is interested. But if I relate the bird
in some way to human life, to my own life,--show what it is to me and what it is in the landscape
and the season,--then do I give my reader a live bird and not a labeled specimen.

   J. B.
   1895.

WAKE-ROBIN

I

THE RETURN OF THE BIRDS

Spring in our northern climate may fairly be said to extend from the middle of March to the
middle of June. At least, the vernal tide continues to rise until the latter date, and it is
not till after the summer solstice that the shoots and twigs begin to harden and turn to wood,
or the grass to lose any of its freshness and succulency.

It is this period that marks the return of the birds,--one or two of the more hardy or half-domesticated
species, like the song sparrow and the bluebird, usually arriving in March, while the rarer
and more brilliant wood-birds bring up the procession in June. But each stage of the advancing
season gives prominence to the certain species, as to certain flowers. The dandelion tells
me when to look for the swallow, the dogtooth violet when to expect the wood-thrush, and when
I have found the wake-robin in bloom I know the season is fairly inaugurated. With me this
flower is associated, not merely with the awakening of Robin, for he has been awake for some
weeks, but with the universal awakening and rehabilitation of nature.

Yet the coming and going of the birds is more or less a mystery and a surprise. We go out in
the morning, and no thrush or vireo is to be heard; we go out again, and every tree and grove
is musical; yet again, and all is silent. Who saw them come? Who saw them depart?

This pert little winter wren, for instance, darting in and out the fence, diving under the
rubbish here and coming up yards away,--how does he manage with those little circular wings
to compass degrees and zones, and arrive always in the nick of time? Last August I saw him
in the remotest wilds of the Adirondacks, impatient and inquisitive as usual; a few weeks later,
on the Potomac, I was greeted by the same hardy little busybody. Does he travel by easy stages
from bush to bush and from wood to wood? or has that compact little body force and courage
to brave the night and the upper air, and so achieve leagues at one pull?

And yonder bluebird with the earth tinge on his breast and the sky tinge on his back,--did
he come down out of the heaven on that bright March morning when he told us so softly and plaintively
that, if we pleased, spring had come? Indeed, there is nothing in the return of the birds more
curious and suggestive than in the first appearance, or rumors of the appearance, of this little
blue-coat. The bird at first seems a mere wandering voice in the air: one hears its call or
carol on some bright March morning, but is uncertain of its source or direction; it falls like
a drop of rain when no cloud is visible; one looks and listens, but to no purpose. The weather
changes, perhaps a cold snap with snow comes on, and it may be a week before I hear the not
again, and this time or the next perchance see this bird sitting on a stake in the fence lifting
his wing as he calls cheerily to his mate. Its notes now become daily more frequent; the birds
multiply, and, flitting from point to point, call and warble more confidently and gleefully.
Their boldness increases till one sees them hovering with a saucy, inquiring air about barns
and out-buildings, peeping into dove-cotes and stable windows, inspecting knotholes and pump-trees,
intent only on a place to nest. They wage war against robins and wrens, pick quarrels with
swallows, and seem to deliberate for days over the policy of taking forcible possession of
one of the mud-houses of the latter. But as the season advances they drift more into the background.
Schemes of conquest which they at first seemed bent upon are abandoned, and the settle down
very quietly in their old quarters in remote stumpy fields.

Not long after the bluebird comes the robin, sometimes in March, but in most of the Northern
States April is the month of the robin. In large numbers they scour the fields and groves.
You hear their piping in the meadow, in the pasture, on the hillside. Walk in the woods, and
the dry leaves rustle with the whir of their wings the air is vocal with their cheery call.
In excess of joy and vivacity, they run, leap, scream, chase each other through the air, diving
and sweeping among the trees with perilous rapidity.

In that free, fascinating, half-work and half-play pursuit,--sugar-making,--a pursuit which
still lingers in many parts of New York, as in New England,--the robin is one's constant companion.
When the day is sunny and the ground bare, you meet him at all points and hear him at all hours.
At sunset, on the tops of the tall maples, with look heavenward, and in a spirit of utter abandonment,
he carols his simple strain. And sitting thus amid the stark, silent trees, above the wet,
cold earth, with the chill of winter still in the air, there is no fitter or sweeter songster
in the whole round year. It is in keeping with the scene and the occasion. How round and genuine
the notes are, and how eagerly our ears drink them in! The first utterance, and the spell of
winter is thoroughly broken, and the remembrance of it afar off.

Robin  is one of the most native and democratic of our birds; He is one of the family, and
seems much nearer to us than those rare, exotic visitants, as the orchard starling or rose-breasted
grosbeak, with their distant, high-bred ways. Hardy, noisy, frolicsome, neighborly, and domestic
in his habits, strong of wing and bold in spirit, he is the pioneer of the thrush family, and
well worthy of the finer artists whose coming he heralds and in a measure prepares us for.

I could wish Robin less native and plebeian in one respect,--the building of his nest. Its
coarse material and rough masonry are creditable neither to his skill as a workman nor to his
taste as an artist. I am the more forcibly reminded of his deficiency in this respect from
observing yonder hummingbird's nest, which is a marvel of fitness and adaptation, a proper
setting for this winged gem,--the body of it composed of a white, felt-like substance, probably
the down of some plant or the wool of some worm, and toned down in keeping with the branch
on which it sits by minute tree-lichens, woven together by threads as fine and grail as gossamer.
From Robin's good looks and musical turn, we might reasonably predict a domicile of him as
clean and handsome a nest as the king-bird's, whose harsh jingle, compared with Robin's evening
melody, is as the clatter of pots and kettles beside the tone of a flute. I love his note and
ways better even than those of the orchard starling or the Baltimore oriole; yet his nest,
compared with theirs, is a half-subterranean hut contrasted with a Roman villa. There is something
courtly and poetical in a pensile nest. Next to a castle in the air is a dwelling suspended
to the slender branch of a tall tree, swayed and rocked forever by the wind. Why need wings
be afraid of falling? Why build only where boys can climb? After all, we must set it down to
the account of Robin's democratic turn: he is no aristocrat, but one of the people; and therefore
we should expect stability in his workmanship, rather than elegance.

Another April bird, which makes her appearance sometimes earlier and sometimes later than Robin,
and whose memory I fondly cherish, is the phoebe-bird, the pioneer of the flycatchers. In the
inland farming districts, I used to notice her, on some bright morning about Easter Day, proclaiming
her arrival, with much variety of motion and attitude, from the peak of the barn or hay-shed.
As yet, you may have heard only the plaintive, homesick note of the bluebird, or the faint
trill of the song sparrow; and Phoebe's clear, vivacious assurance of her veritable bodily
presence among us again is welcomed by all ears. At agreeable intervals in her lay she describes
a circle or an ellipse in the air, ostensibly prospecting for insects, but really, I suspect,
as an artistic flourish, thrown in to make up in some way for the deficiency of her musical
performance. If plainness of dress indicates powers of song as it usually does, then Phoebe
ought to be unrivaled in musical ability, for surely that ashen-gray suit is the superlative
of plainness; and that form, likewise, would hardly pass for a "perfect figure" of a bird.
The seasonableness of her coming, however, and her civil, neighborly ways, shall make up for
all deficiencies in song and plumage. After a few weeks phoebe is seldom seen, except as she
darts from her moss-covered nest beneath some bridge or shelving cliff.

Another April comer, who arrives shortly after Robin-redbreast, with whom he associates both
at this season and in the autumn, is the gold-winged woodpecker, alias "high-hole," alias "flicker,"
alias "yarup." He is an old favorite of my boyhood, and his note to me means very much. He
announces his arrival by a long, loud call, repeated from the dry branch of some tree, or a
stake in the fence,--a thoroughly melodious April sound. I think how Solomon finished that
beautiful description of spring, "And the voice of the turtle is heard in the land," and see
that a description of spring in this farming country, to be equally characteristic, should
culminate in like manner,--"And the call of the high-hole comes up from the wood."

It is a loud, strong, sonorous call, and does not seem to imply an answer, but rather to subserve
some purpose of love or music. It is "Yarup's" proclamation of peace and good-will to all.
On looking at the matter closely, I perceive that most birds, not denominated songsters, have,
in the spring, some note or sound or call that hints of a song, and answers imperfectly the
end of beauty and art. As a "livelier iris changes on the burnished dove," and the fancy of
the young man turns lightly to thoughts of his pretty cousin, so the same renewing spirit touches
the "silent singers," and they are no longer dumb; faintly they lisp the first syllables of
the marvelous tale. Witness the clear sweet whistle of the gray-crested titmouse,--the soft,
nasal piping of the nuthatch,--the amorous, vivacious warble of the bluebird,--the long, rich
note of the meadowlark,--the whistle of the quail,--the drumming of the partridge,--the animation
and loquacity of the swallows, and the like. Even the hen has a homely, contented carol; and
I credit the owls with a desire to fill the night with music. Al birds are incipient or would
be songsters in the spring. I find corroborative evidence of this even in the crowing of the
cock. The flowering of the maple is not so obvious as that of the magnolia; nevertheless, there
is actual inflorescence.

Few writers award any song to that familiar little sparrow, the Socialis; yet who that has
observed him sitting by the wayside, and repeating, with devout attitude, that fine sliding
chant, does not recognize the neglect? Who has heard the snowbird sing? Yet he has a lisping
warble very savory to the ear. I have heard him indulge in it even in February.

Even the cow bunting feels the musical tendency, and aspires to its expression, with the rest.
Perched upon the topmost branch beside his mate or mates,--for he is quite a polygamist, and
usually has two or three demure little ladies in faded black beside him,--generally in the
early part of the day, he seems literally to vomit up his notes. Apparently with much labor
and effort, they gurgle and blubber up out of him, falling on the ear with a peculiar subtile
ring, as of turning water from a glass bottle, and not without a certain pleasing cadence.

Neither is the common woodpecker entirely insensible to the wooing of the spring, and, like
the partridge, testifies his appreciation of melody after quite a primitive fashion. Passing
through the woods on some clear, still morning in March, while the metallic ring and tension
of winter are still in the earth and air, the silence is suddenly broken by long, resonant
hammering upon a dry limb or stub. It is Downy beating a reveille to spring. In the utter stillness
and amid the rigid forms we listen with pleasure; and, as it comes to my ear oftener at this
season than at any other, I freely exonerate the author of it from the imputation of any gastronomic
motives, and credit him with a genuine musical performance.

It is to be expected, therefore, that "yellow-hammer" will respond to the general tendency,
and contribute his part to the spring chorus. His April call is his finest touch, his most
musical expression.

I recall an ancient maple standing sentry to a large sugar-bush, that, year after year, afforded
protection to a brood of yellow-hammers in its decayed heart. A week or two before nesting
seemed actually to have begun, three or four of these birds might be seen, on almost any bright
morning, gamboling and courting amid its decayed branches. Sometimes you would hear only a
gentle persuasive cooing, or a quiet confidential chattering,--then that long, loud call, taken
up by first one, then another, as they sat about upon the naked limbs,--anon, a sort of wild,
rollicking laughter, intermingled with various cries, yelps, and squeals, as if some incident
had excited their mirth and ridicule. Whether this social hilarity and boisterousness is in
celebration of the pairing or mating ceremony, or whether it is only a sort of annual "house-warming"
common among high-holes on resuming their summer quarters, is a question upon which I reserve
my judgment.

Unlike most of his kinsmen, the golden-wing prefers the fields and the borders of the forest
to the deeper seclusion of the woods, and hence, contrary to the habit of his tribe, obtains
most of his subsistence from the ground, probing it for ants and crickets. He is not quite
satisfied with being a woodpecker. He courts the society of the robin and the finches, abandons
the trees for the meadow, and feeds eagerly upon berries and grain. What may be the final upshot
of this course of living is a question worth the attention of Darwin. Will his taking to the
ground and his pedestrian feats result in lengthening his legs, his feeding upon berries and
grains subdue his tints and soften his voice, and his associating with Robin put a song into
his heart?

Indeed, what would be more interesting than the history of our birds for the last two or three
centuries. There can be no doubt that the presence of man has exerted a very marked and friendly
influence upon them, since they so multiply in his society. The birds of California, it is
said, were mostly silent till after its settlement, and I doubt if the Indians heard the wood
thrush as we hear him. Where did the bobolink disport himself before there were meadows in
the North and rice fields in the South? Was he the same lithe, merry-hearted beau then as now?
And the sparrow, the lark, and the goldfinch, birds that seem so indigenous to the open fields
and so adverse to the woods,--we cannot conceive of their existence in a vast wilderness and
without man.

But to return.  The song sparrow, that universal favorite and firstling of the spring, comes
before April, and its simple strain gladdens all hearts.

May is the month of the swallows and the orioles. There are many other distinguished arrivals,
indeed nine tenths of the birds are here by the last week in May, yet the swallows and the
orioles are the most conspicuous. The bright plumage of the latter seems really like an arrival
from the tropics. I see them dash through the blossoming trees, and all the forenoon hear their
incessant warbling and wooing. The swallows dive and chatter about the barn, or squeak and
build beneath the eaves; the partridge drums in the fresh sprouting woods; the long, tender
note of the meadowlark comes up from the meadow; and at sunset, from every marsh and pond come
the ten thousand voices of the hylas. May is the transition month, and exists to connect April
and June, the root with the flower.

With June the cup is full, our hearts are satisfied, there is no more to be desired. The perfection
of the season, among other things, has brought the perfection of the song and the plumage of
the birds. The master artists are all here; and the expectations excited by the robin and the
song sparrow are fully justified. The thrushes have all come; and I sit down upon the first
rock, with hands full of the pink azalea, to listen. With me the cuckoo does not arrive till
June; and often the goldfinch, the kingbird, the scarlet tanager delay their coming till then.
In the meadows the bobolink is in all his glory; in the high pastures the field sparrow sings
his breezy vesper-hymn; and the woods are unfolding to the music of the thrushes.

The cuckoo is one of the most solitary birds of our forests, and is strangely tame and quiet,
appearing equally untouched by joy or grief, fear or anger. Something remote seems ever weighing
upon his mind. His note or call is as of one lost or wandering, and to the farmer is prophetic
of rain. Amid the general joy and the sweet assurance of things, I love to listen to the strange
clairvoyant call. Heard a quarter of a mile away, from out the depths of the forest, there
is something peculiarly weird and monkish about it. Wordsworth's lines upon the European species
apply equally well to ours:--"O blithe new-comer! I have heard, I hear thee and rejoice: O
cuckoo! shall I call thee bird? Or but a wandering voice?

         "While I am lying on the grass,
              Thy loud note smites my ear!
         From hill to hill it seems to pass,
              At once far off and near!

         "Thrice welcome, darling of  the spring!
              Even yet thou art to me
         No bird, but an invisible thing,
              A voice, a mystery."

The black-billed is the only species found in my locality, the yellow-billed abounds farther
south. Their note or call is nearly the same. The former sometimes suggests the voice of a
turkey. The call of the latter may be suggested thus: k-k-k-k-k-kow, kow, kow-ow, kow-ow.

The yellow-billed will take up his stand in a tree, and explore its branches till he has caught
every worm. He sits on a twig, and with a peculiar swaying movement of his head examines the
surrounding foliage. When he discovers his prey, he leaps upon it in a fluttering manner.

In June the black-billed makes a tour through the orchard and garden, regaling himself upon
the canker-worms. At this time he is one of the tamest of birds, and will allow you to approach
within a few yards of him. I have even come within a few feet of one without seeming to excite
his fear or suspicion. He is quite unsophisticated, or else royally indifferent.

The plumage of the cuckoo is a rich glossy brown, and is unrivaled in beauty by any other neutral
tint with which I am acquainted. It is also remarkable for its firmness and fineness.

Notwithstanding the disparity in size and color, the black-billed species has certain peculiarities
that remind one of the passenger pigeon. His eye, with its red circle, the shape of his head,
and his motions on alighting and taking flight, quickly suggest the resemblance; though in
grace and speed, when on the wing, he is far inferior. His tail seems disproportionately long,
like that of the red thrush, and his flight among the trees is very still, contrasting strongly
with the honest clatter of the robin or pigeon.

Have you heard the song of the field sparrow? If you have lived in a pastoral country with
broad upland pastures, you could hardly have missed him. Wilson, I believe, calls him the grass
finch, and was evidently unacquainted with his powers of song. The two white lateral quills
in his tail, and his habit of running and skulking a few yards in advance of you as you walk
through the fields, are sufficient to identify him. Not in meadows or orchards, but in high,
breezy pasture-grounds, will you look for him. His song is most noticeable after sundown, when
other birds are silent; for which reason he has been aptly called the vesper sparrow. The farmer
following his team from the field at dusk catches his sweetest strain. His song is not so brisk
and varied as that of the song sparrow, being softer and wilder, sweeter and more plaintive.
Add the best parts of the lay of the latter to the sweet vibrating chant of the wood sparrow,
and you have the evening hymn of the vesper-bird,--the poet of the plain, unadorned pastures.
Go to those broad, smooth, uplying fields where the cattle and sheep are grazing, and sit down
in the twilight on one of those warm, clean stones, and listen to this song. On every side,
near and remote, from out the short grass which the herds are cropping, the strain rises. Two
or three long, silver notes of peace and rest, ending in some subdued trills and quavers, constitute
each separate song. Often, you will catch only one or two of the bars, the breeze having blown
the minor part away. Such unambitious, quiet, unconscious melody! It is one of the most characteristic
sounds in nature. The grass, the stones, the stubble, the furrow, the quiet herds, and the
warm twilight among the hills, are all subtly expressed in this song; this is what they are
at last capable of.

The female builds a plain nest in the open field, without so much as a bush or thistle or tuft
of grass to protect it or mark its site; you may step upon it, or the cattle may tread it into
the ground. But the danger from this source, I presume, the bird considers less than that from
another. Skunks and foxes have a very impertinent curiosity, as Finchie well knows; and a bank
or hedge, or a rank growth of grass or thistles, that might promise protection and cover to
mouse or bird, these cunning rogues would be apt to explore most thoroughly. The partridge
is undoubtedly acquainted with the same process of reasoning; for, like the vesper-bird, she,
too, nests in open, unprotected places, avoiding all show of concealment,--coming from the
tangled and almost impenetrable parts of the forest to the clean, open woods, where she can
command all the approaches and fly with equal ease in any direction.

Another favorite sparrow, but little noticed, is the wood or bush sparrow, usually called by
the ornithologists Spizella pusilla. Its size and form is that of the socialis, but is less
distinctly marked, being of a duller redder tinge. He prefers remote bushy heathery fields,
where his song is one of the sweetest to be heard. It is sometimes very noticeable, especially
early in spring. I remember sitting one bright day in the still leafless April woods, when
one of these birds struck up a few rods from me, repeating its lay at short intervals for nearly
an hour. It was a perfect piece of wood-music, and was of course all the more noticeable for
being projected upon such a broad unoccupied page of silence. Its song is like the words, fe-o,
fe-o, fe-o, few, few, few, fee fee fee, uttered at first high and leisurely, but running very
rapidly toward the close, which is low and soft.

Still keeping among the unrecognized, the white-eyed vireo, or flycatcher, deserves particular
mention. The song of this bird is not particularly sweet and soft; on the contrary, it is a
little hard and shrill, like that of the indigo-bird or oriole; but for brightness, volubility,
execution, and power of imitation, he is unsurpassed by any of our northern birds. His ordinary
note is forcible and emphatic, but, as stated, not especially musical; Chick-a-re'r-chick,
he seems to say, hiding himself in the low, dense undergrowth, and eluding your most vigilant
search, as if playing some part in a game. But in July of August, if you are on good terms
with the sylvan deities, you may listen to a far more rare and artistic performance. Your first
impression will be that that cluster of azalea, or that clump of swamp-huckleberry, conceals
three of four different songsters, each vying with the the others to lead the chorus. Such
a medley of notes, snatched from half the songsters of the field and forest, and uttered with
the utmost clearness and rapidity, I am sure you cannot hear short of the haunts of the genuine
mockingbird. If not fully and accurately repeated, there are at least suggested the notes of
the robin, wren, catbird, high-hole, goldfinch, and song sparrow. The pip, pip, of the last
is produced so accurately that I verily believe it would deceive the bird herself; and the
whole uttered in such rapid succession that it seems as if the movement that gives the concluding
note of one strain must form the first note of the next. The effect is very rich, and, to my
ear, entirely unique. The performer is very careful not to reveal himself in the mean time;
yet there is a conscious air about the strain that impresses me with the idea that my presence
is understood and my attention courted. A tone of pride and glee, and, occasionally, of bantering
jocoseness, is discernible. I believe it is only rarely, and when he is sure of his audience,
that he displays his parts in this manner. You are to look for him, not in tall trees or deep
forests, but in low, dense shrubbery about wet places, where there are plenty of gnats and
mosquitoes.

The winter wren is another marvelous songster, in speaking of whom it is difficult to avoid
superlatives. He is not so conscious of is powers and so ambitious of effect as the white-eyed
flycatcher, yet you will not be less astonished and delighted on hearing him. He possesses
the fluency and copiousness for which the wrens are noted, and besides these qualities, and
what is rarely found conjoined with them, a wild, sweet, rhythmical cadence that holds you
entranced. I shall not soon forget that perfect June day, when, loitering in a low, ancient
hemlock wood, in whose cathedral aisles the coolness and freshness seems perennial, the silence
was suddenly broken by a strain so rapid and gushing, and touched with such a wild, sylvan
plaintiveness, that I listened in amazement. And so shy and coy was the little minstrel, that
I came twice to the woods before I was sure to whom I was listening. In summer he is one of
those birds of the deep northern forests, that, like the speckled Canada warbler and the hermit
thrush, only the privileged ones hear.

The distribution of plants in a given locality is not more marked and defined than that of
the birds. Show a botanist a landscape, and he will tell you where to look for the lady's-slipper,
the columbine, or the harebell. On the same principles the ornithologist will direct you where
to look for the greenlets, the wood sparrow, or the chewink. In adjoining counties, in the
same latitude, and equally inland, but possessing a different geological formation and different
forest-timber, you will observe quite a different class of birds. In a land of the beech and
sugar maple I do not find the same songsters that I know where thrive the oak, chestnut, and
laurel. In going from a district of the Old Red Sandstone to where I walk upon the old Plutonic
Rock, not fifty miles distant, I miss in the woods, the veery, the hermit thrush, the chestnut-sided
warbler, the blue-backed warbler, the green-backed warbler, the black and yellow warbler, and
many others, and find in their stead the wood thrush, the chewink, the redstart, the yellow-throat,
the yellow-breasted flycatcher, the white-eyed flycatcher, the quail, and the turtle dove.

In my neighborhood here in the Highlands the distribution is very marked. South of the village
I invariably find one species of birds, north of it another. In only one locality, full of
azalea and swamp-huckleberry, I am always sure of finding the hooded warbler. In a dense undergrowth
of spice-bush, witch-hazel, and alder, I meet the worm-eating warbler. In a remote clearing,
covered with heath and fern, with here and there a chestnut and an oak, I go to hear in July
the wood sparrow, and returning by a stumpy, shallow pond, I am sure to find the water-thrush.

Only one locality within my range seems to possess attractions for all comers. Here one may
study almost the entire ornithology of the State. It is a rocky piece of ground, long ago cleared,
but now fast relapsing into the wildness and freedom of nature, and marked by those half-cultivated,
half-wild features which birds and boys love. It is bounded on two sides by the village and
highway, crossed at various points by carriage-roads, and threaded in all directions by paths
and byways, along which soldiers, laborers, and truant school-boys are passing at all hours
of the day. It is so far escaping from the axe and the bush-hook as to have opened communication
with the forest and mountain beyond by straggling lines of cedar, laurel, and blackberry. The
ground is mainly occupied with cedar and chestnut, with an undergrowth, in many place, of heath
and bramble. The chief feature, however, is a dense growth in the centre, consisting of dogwood,
water-beech, swamp-ash, alder, spice-bush, hazel, etc., with a network of smilax and frost-grape.
A little zigzag stream, the draining of a swam beyond, which passes through this tanglewood,
accounts for many of its features and productions, if not for its entire existence. Birds that
are not attracted by the heath, or the cedar and chestnut, are sure to find some excuse for
visiting this miscellaneous growth in the centre. Most of the common birds literally throng
in this idle-wild; and I have met here many of the rarer species, such as the great-crested
flycatcher, the solitary warbler, the blue-winged swamp warbler, the worm-eating warbler, the
fox sparrow, etc. The absence of all birds of prey, and the great number of flies and insects,
both the result of the proximity to the village, are considerations which ho hawk-fearing,
peace-loving minstrel passes over lightly; hence the popularity of the resort.

But the crowning glory of all these robins, flycatchers, and warblers is the wood thrush. More
abundant than all other birds, except the robin and catbird, he greets you from every rock
and shrub. Shy and reserved when he first makes his appearance in May, before the end of June
he is tame and familiar, and sings on the tree over your head, or on the rock a few paces in
advance. A pair even built their nest and reared their brood within ten or twelve feet of the
piazza of a large summer-house in the vicinity. But when the guests commenced to arrive and
the piazza to be thronged with gay crowds, I noticed something like dread and foreboding in
the manner of the mother bird; and from her still, quiet ways, and habit of sitting long and
silently within a few feet of the precious charge, it seemed as if the dear creature had resolved,
if possible, to avoid all observation.

If we take the quality of melody as the test, the wood thrush, hermit thrush, and the veery
thrush stand at the head of our list of songsters.

The mockingbird undoubtedly possesses the greatest range of mere talent, the most varied executive
ability, and never fails to surprise and delight one anew at each hearing; but being mostly
an imitator, he never approaches the serene beauty and sublimity of the hermit thrush. The
word that best expresses my feelings, on hearing the mockingbird, is admiration, though the
first emotion is one of surprise and incredulity. That so many and such various notes should
proceed from one throat is a marvel, and we regard the performance with feelings akin to those
we experience on witnessing the astounding feats of the athlete or gymnast,--and this, notwithstanding
many of the notes imitated have all the freshness and sweetness of the originals. The emotions
excited by the songs of these thrushes belong to a higher order, springing as they do from
our deepest sense of the beauty and harmony of the world.

The wood thrush is worthy of all, and more than all, the praises he has received; and considering
the number of his appreciative listeners, it is not a little surprising that his relative and
equal, the hermit thrush, should have received so little notice. Both the great ornithologists,
Wilson and Audubon, are lavish in their praises of the former, but have little or nothing to
say of the song of the latter. Audubon says it is sometimes agreeable, but evidently has never
heard it. Nuttall, I am glad to find, is more discriminating, and does the bird fuller justice.

It is quite a rare bird, of very shy and secluded habits, being found in the Middle and Eastern
States, during the period of song, only in the deepest and most remote forests, usually in
damp and swampy localities. On this account the people in the Adirondack region call it the
"Swamp Angel." Its being so much of a recluse accounts for the comparative ignorance that prevails
in regard to it.

The cast of its song is very much like that of the wood thrush, and a good observer might easily
confound the two. But hear them together and the difference is quite marked: the song of the
hermit is in a higher key, and is more wild and ethereal. His instrument is a silver horn which
he winds in the most solitary places. The song of the wood thrush is more golden and leisurely.
Its tone comes near to that of some rare stringed instrument. One feels that perhaps the wood
thrush has more compass and power, if he would only let himself out, but on the whole he comes
a little short of the pure, serene, hymn-like strain of the hermit.

Yet those who have heard only the wood thrush may well place him first on the list. He is truly
a royal minstrel, and, considering his liberal distribution throughout our Atlantic seaboard,
perhaps contributes more than any other bird to our sylvan melody. One may object that he spends
a little too much time in tuning his instrument, yet his careless and uncertain touches reveal
its rare compass and power.

He is the only songster of my acquaintance excepting the canary, that displays different degrees
of proficiency in the exercise of his musical gifts. Not long since, while walking one Sunday
in the edge of an orchard adjoining a wood, I heard one that so obviously and unmistakably
surpassed all his rivals, that my companion, although slow to notice such things, remarked
it wonderingly; and with one accord we paused to listen to so rare a performer. It was not
different in quality so much as in quantity. Such a flood of it! Such copiousness! Such long,
trilling, accelerating preludes! Such sudden, ecstatic overtures would have intoxicated the
dullest ear. He was really without a compeer,--a master artist. Twice afterward I was conscious
of having heard the same bird.

The wood thrush is the handsomest species of this family.  In grace and elegance of manner
he has no equal. Such a gentle, high-bred air, and such inimitable ease and composure in his
flight and movement! He is a poet in very word and deed. His carriage is music to the eye.
His performance of the commonest act, as catching a beetle, or picking a worm from the mud,
pleases like a stroke of wit or eloquence. Was he a prince in the olden time, and do the regal
grace and mien still adhere to him in his transformation? What a finely proportioned form!
How plain, yet rich, his color,--the bright russet of his back, the clear white of his breast,
with the distinct heart-shaped spots! It may be objected to Robin that he is noisy and demonstrative;
he hurries away or rises to a branch with an angry note, and flirts his wings in ill-bred suspicion.
The mavis, or red thrush, sneaks and skulks like a culprit, hiding in the densest alders; the
catbird is a coquette and a flirt, as well as a sort of female Paul Pry; and the chewink shows
his inhospitality by espying your movements like a Japanese. The wood thrush has none of theses
underbred traits. He regards me unsuspiciously, or avoids me with a noble reserve,--or, if
I am quiet and incurious, graciously hops toward me, as if to pay his respects, or to make
my acquaintance. I have passed under his nest within a few feet of his mate and brood, when
he sat near by on a branch eying me sharply, but without opening his beak; but the moment I
raised my hand toward his defenseless household, his anger and indignation were beautiful to
behold.

What a noble pride he has!  Late one October, after his mates and companions had long since
gone south, I noticed one for several successive days in the dense part of this next-door wood,
flitting noiselessly about, very grave and silent, as if doing penance for some violation of
the code of honor. By many gentle, indirect approaches, I perceived that part of his tail-feathers
were undeveloped. The sylvan prince could not think of returning to court in this plight, and
so, amid the falling leaves and cold rains of autumn, was patiently biding his time.

The soft, mellow flute of the veery fills a place in the chorus of the woods that the song
of the vesper sparrow fills in the chorus of the fields. It has the nightingale's habit of
singing in the twilight, as indeed have all our thrushes. Walk out toward the forest in the
warm twilight of a June day, and when fifty rods distant you will hear their soft, reverberating
notes rising from a dozen different throats.

It is one of the simplest strains to be heard,--as simple as the curve in form, delighting
from the pure element of harmony and beauty it contains, and not from any novel or fantastic
modulation of it,--thus contrasting strongly with such rollicking, hilarious songsters as the
bobolink, in whom we are chiefly pleased with tintinnabulation, the verbal and labial excellence,
and the evident conceit and delight of the performer.

I hardly know whether I am more pleased or annoyed with the catbird. Perhaps she is a little
too common, and her part in the general chorus a little too conspicuous. If you are listening
for the note of another bird, she is sure to be prompted to the most loud and protracted singing,
drowning all other sounds; If you sit quietly down to observe a favorite or study a new-comer,
her curiosity knows no bounds, and you are scanned and ridiculed from every point of observation.
Yet I would not miss her; I would only subordinate her a little, make her less conspicuous.

She is the parodist of the woods, and there is ever a mischievous, bantering, half-ironical
undertone in her lay, as if she were conscious of mimicking and disconcerting some envied songster.
Ambitious of song, practicing and rehearsing in private, she yet seems the least sincere and
genuine of the sylvan minstrels, as if she had taken up music only to be in the fashion, or
not to be outdone by the robins and thrushes. In other words, she seems to sing from some outward
motive, and not from inward joyousness. She is a good versifier, but not a great poet. Vigorous,
rapid, copious, not without fine touches, but destitute of any high, serene melody, her performance,
like that of Thoreau's squirrel, always implies a spectator.

There is a certain air and polish about her strain, however, like that in the vivacious conversation
of a well-bred lady of the world, that commands respect. Her maternal instinct, also, is very
strong, and that simple structure of dead twigs and dry grass is the center of much anxious
solicitude. Not long since, while strolling through the woods, my attention was attracted to
a small densely grown swamp, hedged in with eglantine, brambles, and the everlasting smilax,
from which proceeded loud cries of distress and alarm, indicating that some terrible calamity
was threatening my sombre-colored minstrel. On effecting an entrance, which, however, was not
accomplished till I had doffed coat and hat, so as to diminish the surface exposed to the thorns
and brambles, and, looking around me from a square yard of terra firma, I found myself the
spectator of a loathsome yet fascinating scene. Three or four yards from me was the nest, beneath
which, in long festoons, rested a huge black snake; a bird two thirds grown was slowly disappearing
between his expanded jaws. As he seemed unconscious of my presence, I quietly observed the
proceedings. By slow degrees he compassed the bird about with his elastic mouth; his head flattened,
his neck writhed and swelled, and two or three undulatory movements of his glistening body
finished the work. Then he cautiously raised himself up, his tongue flaming from his mouth
the while, curved over the nest, and with wavy subtle motions, explored the interior. I can
conceive of nothing more overpoweringly terrible to an unsuspecting family of birds than the
sudden appearance above their domicile of the head and neck of this arch-enemy. It is enough
to petrify the blood in their veins. Not finding the object of his search, he came streaming
down from the nest to a lower limb, and commenced extending his researches in other directions,
sliding stealthily through the branches, bent on capturing on of the parent birds. That a legless,
wingless creature should move with such ease and rapidity where only birds and squirrels are
considered at home, lifting himself up, letting himself down, running out on the yielding boughs,
and traversing with marvelous celerity the whole length and breadth of the thicket, was truly
surprising. One thinks of the great myth of the Tempter and the "cause of all our woe," and
wonders if the Arch One is not now playing off some of his pranks before him. Whether we call
it snake or devil matters little. I could but admire his terrible beauty, however; his black,
shining folds, his easy, gliding movement, head erect, eyes glistening, tongue playing like
subtle flame, and the invisible means of his almost winged locomotion.

The parent birds, in the mean while, kept up the most agonizing cry,--at times fluttering furiously
about their pursuer, and actually laying hold of his tail with their beaks and claws. On being
thus attacked, the snake would suddenly double upon himself and follow his won body back, thus
executing a strategic movement that at first seemed almost to paralyze his victim and place
her within his grasp. Not quite, however. Before his jaws could close upon the coveted prize
the bird would tear herself away, and, apparently faint and sobbing, retire to a higher branch.
His reputed powers of fascination availed him little, though it is possible that a frailer
and less combative bird might have been held by the fatal spell. Presently, as he came gliding
down the slender body of a leaning alder, his attention was attracted by a slight movement
of my arm; eyeing me an instant, with that crouching, utter motionless gaze which I believe
only snakes and devils can assume, he turned quickly,--a feat which necessitated something
like crawling over his own body,--and glided off through the branches, evidently recognizing
in me a representative of the ancient parties he once so cunningly ruined. A few moments after,
as he lay carelessly disposed in the top of a rank alder, trying to look as much like a crowded
branch as his supple, shining form would admit, the old vengeance overtook him. I exercised
my prerogative, and a well-directed missile, in the shape of a stone, brought him looping and
writhing to the ground. After I had completed his downfall and quiet had been partially restored,
a half-fledged member of the bereaved household came out from his hiding-place, and, jumping
upon a decayed branch, chirped vigorously, no doubt in celebration of the victory.

Till the middle of July there is a general equilibrium; the tide stands poised; the holiday
spirit is unabated. But as the harvest ripens beneath the long, hot days, the melody gradually
ceases. The young are out of the nest and must be cared for, and the moulting season is at
hand. After the cricket has commenced to drone his monotonous refrain beneath your window,
you will not, till another season, hear the wood thrush in all his matchless eloquence. The
bobolink has become careworn and fretful, and blurts out snatches of his song between his scolding
and upbraiding, as you approach the vicinity of his nest, oscillating between anxiety for his
brood and solicitude for his musical reputation. Some of the sparrows still sing, and occasionally
across the hot fields, from a tall tree in the edge of the forest, comes the rich note of the
scarlet tanager. This tropical-colored bird loves the hottest weather, and I hear him even
in dog-days.

The remainder of the summer is the carnival of the swallows and flycatchers. Flies and insects,
to any amount, are to be had for the catching; and the opportunity is well improved. See that
sombre, ashen-colored pewee on yonder branch. A true sportsman he, who never takes his game
at rest, but always on the wing. You vagrant fly, you purblind moth, beware how you come within
his range! Observe his attitude, the curious movement of his head, his "eye in a fine frenzy
rolling, glancing from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven."

His sight is microscopic and his aim sure.  Quick as thought he has seized his victim and is
back to his perch. There is no strife, no pursuit,--one fell swoop and the matter is ended.
That little sparrow, as you will observe, is less skilled. It is the Socialis, and he finds
his subsistence properly in various seeds and the larvae of insects, though he occasionally
has higher aspirations, and seeks to emulate the peewee, commencing and ending his career as
a flycatcher by an awkward chase after a beetle or "miller." He is hunting around in the dull
grass now, I suspect, with the desire to indulge this favorite whim. There!--the opportunity
is afforded him. Away goes a little cream-colored meadow-moth in the most tortuous course he
is capable of, and away goes Socialis in pursuit. The contest is quite comical, though I dare
say it is serious enough to the moth. The chase continues for a few yards, when there is a
sudden rushing to cover in the grass,--then a taking to wing again, when the search has become
to close, and the moth has recovered his wind. Socialis chirps angrily, and is determined not
to be beaten. Keeping, with the slightest effort, upon the heels of the fugitive, he is ever
on the point of halting to snap him up, but never quite does it,--and so, between disappointment
and expectation, is soon disgusted and returns to pursue his more legitimate means of subsistence.

In striking contrast to this serio-comic strife of the sparrow and the moth, is he pigeon hawk's
pursuit of the sparrow or the goldfinch. It is a race of surprising speed and agility. It is
a test of wing and wind. Every muscle is taxed, and every nerve strained. Such cries of terror
and consternation on the part of the bird, tacking to the right and left, and making the most
desperate efforts to escape, and such silent determination on the part of the hawk, pressing
the bird so closely, flashing and turning, and timing his movements with those of the pursued
as accurately and as inexorably as if the two constituted one body, excite feelings of the
deepest concern. You mount the fence or rush out of your way to see the issue. The only salvation
for the bird is to adopt the tactics of the moth, seeking instantly the cover of some tree,
bush or hedge, where its smaller size enables it to move about more rapidly. These pirates
are aware of this, and therefore prefer to take their prey by one fell swoop. You may see one
of them prowling through an orchard, with the yellowbirds hovering about him, crying, Pi-ty,
pi-ty, in the most desponding tone; yet he seems not to regard them, knowing, as do they, that
in the close branches they are as safe as if in a wall of adamant.

August is the month of the high-sailing hawks. The hen-hawk is the most noticeable. He likes
the haze and calm of these long, warm days. He is a bird of leisure, and seems always at his
ease. How beautiful and majestic are his movements! So self-poised and easy, such an entire
absence of haste, such a magnificent amplitude of circles and spirals, such a haughty, imperial
grace, and, occasionally, such daring aerial evolutions!

With slow, leisurely movement, rarely vibrating his pinions, he mounts and mounts in an ascending
spiral till he appears a mere speck against the summer sky; then, if the mood seizes him, with
wings half closed, like a bent bow, he will cleave the air almost perpendicularly, as if intent
on dashing himself to pieces against the earth; but on nearing the ground he suddenly mounts
again on broad, expanded wing, as if rebounding upon the air, and sails leisurely away. It
is the sublimest feat of the season. One holds his breath till he sees him rise again.

If inclined to a more gradual and less precipitous descent, he fixes his eye on some distant
point in the earth beneath him, and thither bends his course. He is still almost meteoric in
his speed and boldness. You see his path down the heavens, straight as a line; if near, you
hear the rush of his wings; his shadow hurtles across the fields, and in an instant you see
him quietly perched upon some low tree or decayed stub in a swamp or meadow, with reminiscences
of frogs and mice stirring in his maw.

When the south wind blows, it is a study to see three or four of these air-kings at the head
of the valley far up toward the mountain, balancing and oscillating upon the strong current;
now quite stationary, except a slight tremulous motion like the poise of a rope-dancer, then
rising and falling in long undulations, and seeming to resign themselves passively to the wind;
or, again sailing high and level far above the mountain's peak, no bluster and haste, but as
stated, occasionally a terrible earnestness and speed. Fire at one as he sails overhead and,
unless wounded badly, he will not change his course or gait.

His flight is a perfect picture of repose in motion. It strikes the eye as more surprising
than the flight of a pigeon, and swallow even, in that the effort put forth is so uniform and
delicate as to escape observation, giving to the movement an air of buoyancy and perpetuity,
the effluence of power rather than the conscious application of it.

The calmness and dignity of this hawk, when attacked by crows or the kingbird, are well worth
of him. He seldom deigns to notice his noisy and furious antagonists, but deliberately wheels
about in that aerial spiral, and mounts and mounts till his pursuers grow dizzy and return
to earth again. It is quite original, this mode of getting rid of an unworthy opponent, rising
to the heights where the braggart is dazed and bewildered and loses his reckoning! I am not
sure but is is worthy of imitation.

But summer wanes, and autumn approaches. The songsters of the seed-time are silent at the reaping
of the harvest. Other minstrels take up the strain. It is the heyday of insect life. The day
is canopied with musical sound. All the songs of the spring and summer appear to be floating,
softened and refined, in the upper air. The birds, in a new but less holiday suit, turn their
faces southward. The swallows flock and go; the bobolinks flock and go; silently and unobserved,
the thrushes go. Autumn arrives, bringing finches, warblers, sparrows, and kinglets from the
north. Silently the procession passes. Yonder hawk, sailing peacefully away till he is lost
in the horizon, is a symbol of the closing season and the departing birds. 1863.

III

THE ADIRONDACKS

When I went to the Adirondacks, which was in the summer of 1863, I was in the first flush of
my ornithological studies, and was curious, above else, to know what birds I should find in
these solitudes,--what new ones, and what ones already known to me.

In visiting vast primitive, far-off woods one naturally expects to find something rare and
precious, or something entirely new, but it commonly happens that one is disappointed. Thoreau
made three excursions into the Maine woods, and, though he started the moose and the caribou,
had nothing more novel to report by way of bird notes than the songs of the wood thrush and
the pewee. This was about my own experience in the Adirondacks. The birds for the most part
prefer the vicinity of settlements and clearings, and it was at such places that I saw the
greatest number and variety.

At the clearing of an old hunter and pioneer by the name of Hewett, where we paused a couple
of days on first entering the woods, I saw many old friends and made some new acquaintances.
The snowbird was very abundant here, as it had been at various points along the route after
leaving Lake George. As I went out to the spring in the morning to wash myself, a purple finch
flew up before me, having already performed its ablutions. I had first observed this bird the
winter before in the Highlands of the Hudson, where, during several clear but cold February
mornings, a troop of them sang most charmingly in a tree in front of my house. The meeting
with the bird here in its breeding haunts was a pleasant surprise. During the day I observed
several pine finches,--a dark brown or brindlish bird, allied to the common yellowbird, which
it much resembles in its manner and habits. They lingered familiarly about the house, sometimes
alighting in a small tree within a few feet of it. In one of the stumpy fields I saw an old
favorite in the grass finch or vesper swallow. It was sitting on a tall charred stub with food
in its beak. But all along the borders of the woods and in the bushy parts of the fields there
was a new song that I was puzzled in tracing to the author. It was most noticeable in the morning
and at twilight, but was at all times singularly secret and elusive. I at last discovered that
it was the white-throated sparrow, a common bird all through this region. Its song is very
delicate and plaintive,--a thin, wavering, tremulous whistle, which disappoints one, however,
as it ends when it seems only to have begun. If the bird could give us the finishing strain
of which this seems only the prelude, it would stand first among feathered songsters.

By a little trout brook in a low part of the woods adjoining the clearing, I had a good time
pursuing and identifying a number of warblers,--the speckled Canada, the black-throated blue,
the yellow-rumped, and Audubon's warbler. The latter, which was leading its troop of young
through a thick undergrowth on the banks of the creek where insects were plentiful, was new to me.

It being August, the birds were all moulting, and sang only fitfully and by brief snatches.
I remember hearing but one robin during the whole trip. This was by the Boreas River in the
deep forest. It was like the voice of an old friend speaking my name.

From Hewett's, after engaging his youngest son,--the "Bub" of the family,--a young man about
twenty and a thorough woodsman, as our guide, we took to the woods in good earnest, our destination
being the Stillwater of the Boreas,--a long, deep, dark reach in one of the remotest branches
of the Hudson, about six miles distant. Here we paused a couple of days, putting up in a dilapidated
lumbermen's shanty, and cooking our fish over an old stove which had been left there. The most
noteworthy incident of our stay at this point was the taking by myself of half a dozen splendid
trout out of the Stillwater, after the guide had exhausted his art and his patience with very
insignificant results. The place had a very trouty look; but as the season was late and the
river warm, I knew the fish lay in deep water from which they could not be attracted. In deep
water accordingly, and near the head of the hole, I determined to look for them. Securing a
chub, I cut it into pieces about an inch long, and with these for bait sank my hook into the
head of the Stillwater, and just to one side of the main current. In less than twenty minutes
I had landed six noble fellows, three of them over one foot long each. The guide and my incredulous
companions, who were watching me from the opposite shore, seeing my luck, whipped out their
tackle in great haste and began casting first at a respectable distance from me, then all about
me, but without a single catch. My own efforts suddenly became fruitless also, but I had conquered
the guide, and thenceforth he treated me with the tone and freedom of a comrade and equal.

One afternoon, we visited a cave some two miles down the stream, which had recently been discovered.
We squeezed and wriggled through a big crack or cleft in the side of the mountain for about
one hundred feet, when we emerged into a large dome-shaped passage, the abode during certain
seasons of the year of innumerable bats, and at all times of primeval darkness. There were
various other crannies and pit-holes opening into it, some of which we explored. The voice
of running water was everywhere heard, betraying the proximity of the little stream by whose
ceaseless corroding the cave and its entrance had been worn. This streamlet flowed out of the
mouth of the cave, and came from a lake on the top of the mountain; this accounted for its
warmth to the hand, which surprised us all.

Birds of any kind were rare in these woods.  A pigeon hawk came prowling by our camp, and the
faint piping call of the nuthatches, leading their young through the high trees, was often heard.

On the third day our guide proposed to conduct us to a lake in the mountains where we could
float for deer.

Our journey commenced in a steep and rugged ascent, which brought us, after an hour's heavy
climbing, to an elevated region of pine forest, years before ravished by lumbermen, and presenting
all manner of obstacles to our awkward and incumbered pedestrianism. The woods were largely
pine, though yellow birch, beech, and maple were common. The satisfaction of having a gun,
should any game show itself, was the chief compensation to those of us who were thus burdened.
A partridge would occasionally whir up before us, or a red squirrel snicker and hasten to his
den; else the woods appeared quite tenantless. The most noted object was a mammoth pine, apparently
the last of a great race, which presided over a cluster of yellow birches, on the side of the
mountain.

About noon, we came out upon a long, shallow sheet of water which the guide called Bloody-Moose
Pond, from the tradition that a moose had been slaughtered there many years before. Looking
out over the silent and lonely scene, his eye was the first to detect an object, apparently
feeding upon lily-pads, which our willing fancies readily shaped into a deer. As we were eagerly
waiting some movement to confirm this impression, it lifted up its head, and lo! a great blue
heron. Seeing us approach, it spread its long wings and flew solemnly across to a dead tree
on the other side of the lake, enhancing rather than relieving the loneliness and desolation
that brooded over the scene. As we proceeded, it flew from tree to tree in advance of us, apparently
loth to be disturbed in its ancient and solitary domain. In the margin of the pond we found
the pitcher-plant growing, and here and there in the sand the closed gentian lifted up its
blue head.

In traversing the shores of this wild, desolate lake, I was conscious of a slight thrill of
expectation, as if some secret of Nature might here be revealed, or some rare and unheard-of
game disturbed. There is ever a lurking suspicion that the beginning of things is in some way
associated with water, and one may notice that in his private walks he is led by a curious
attraction to fetch all the springs and ponds in his route, as if by them was the place for
wonders and miracles to happen. Once, while in advance of my companions, I saw, from a high
rock, a commotion in the water near the shore, but on reaching the point found only the marks
of a musquash.

Pressing on through the forest, after many adventures with pine-knots, we reached, about the
middle of the afternoon, our destination, Nate's Pond,--a pretty sheet of water, lying like
a silver mirror in the lap of the mountain, about a mile long and half a mile wide, surrounded
by dark forests of balsam, hemlock, and pine, and, like the one we had just passed, a very
picture of unbroken solitude.

It is not in the woods alone to give one this impression of utter loneliness. In the woods
are sounds and voices, and a dumb kind of companionship; one is little more than a walking
tree himself; but come upon one of these mountain lakes, and the wildness stands revealed and
meets you face to face. Water is thus facile and adaptive, that makes the wild more wild, while
it enhances culture and art.

The end of the pond which we approached was quite shoal, the stones rising above the surface
as in a summer brook, and everywhere showing marks of the noble game we were in quest of,--footprints,
dung, and cropped and uprooted lily pads. After resting for a half hour, and replenishing our
game-pouches at the expense of the most respectable frogs of the locality, we filed on through
the soft, resinous pine-woods, intending to camp near the other end of the lake, where, the
guide assured us, we should find a hunter's cabin ready built. A half-hour's march brought
us to the locality, and a most delightful one it was,--so hospitable and inviting that all
the kindly and beneficent influences of the woods must have abided there. In a slight depression
in the woods, about one hundred yards from the lake, though hidden from it for a hunter's reasons,
surrounded by a heavy growth of birch, hemlock, and pine, with a lining of balsam and fir,
the rude cabin welcomed us. It was of the approved style, three sides inclosed, with a roof
of bark and a bed of boughs, and a rock in front that afforded a permanent backlog to all fires.
A faint voice of running water was head near by, and, following the sound, a delicious spring
rivulet was disclosed, hidden by the moss and débris as by a new fall of snow, but here and
there rising in little well-like openings, as if for our special convenience. On smooth places
on the log I noticed female names inscribed in a female hand; and the guide told us of an English
lady, an artist, who had traversed this region with a single guide, making sketches.

Our packs unslung and the kettle over, our first move was to ascertain in what state of preservation
a certain dug-out might be, which the guide averred, he had left moored in the vicinity the
summer before,--for upon this hypothetical dug-out our hopes of venison rested. After a little
searching, it was found under the top of a fallen hemlock, but in a sorry condition. A large
piece had been split out of one end, and a fearful chink was visible nearly to the water line.
Freed from the treetop, however, and calked with a little moss, it floated with two aboard,
which was quite enough for our purpose. A jack and an oar were necessary to complete the arrangement,
and before the sun had set our professor of wood-craft had both in readiness. From a young
yellow birch an oar took shape with marvelous rapidity,--trimmed and smoothed with a neatness
almost fastidious,--no makeshift, but an instrument fitted for the delicate work it was to perform.

A jack was make with equal skill and speed.  A stout staff about three feet long was placed
upright in the bow of the boat, and held to its place by a horizontal bar, through a hole in
which it turned easily: a half wheel eight or ten inches in diameter, cut from a large chip,
was placed at the top, around which was bent a new section of birch bark, thus forming a rude
semicircular reflector. Three candles placed within the circle completed the jack. With moss
and boughs seats were arranged,--one in the bow for the marksman, and one in the stern for
the oarsman. A meal of frogs and squirrels was a good preparation, and, when darkness came,
all were keenly alive to the opportunity it brought. Though by no means an expert in the use
of the gun,--adding the superlative degree of enthusiasm to only the positive degree of skill,--yet
it seemed tacitly agreed that I should act as marksman and kill the deer, if such was to be
our luck.

After it was thoroughly dark, we went down to make a short trial trip. Everything working to
satisfaction, about ten o'clock we pushed out in earnest. For the twentieth time I felt in
the pocket that contained the matches, ran over the part I was to perform, and pressed my gun
firmly, to be sure there was no mistake. My position was that of kneeling directly under the
jack, which I was to light at the word. The night was clear, moonless, and still. Nearing the
middle of the lake, a breeze from the west was barely perceptible, and noiselessly we glided
before it. The guide handled his oar with great dexterity; without lifting it from the water
or breaking the surface, he imparted the steady, uniform motion desired. How silent it was!
The ear seemed the only sense, and to hold dominion over lake and forest. Occasionally a lily-pad
would brush along the bottom, and stooping low I could hear a faint murmuring of the water
under the bow: else all was still. Then almost as by magic, we were encompassed by a huge black
ring. The surface of the lake, when we had reached the center, was slightly luminous from the
starlight, and the dark, even forest-line that surrounded us, doubled by reflection in the
water, presented a broad, unbroken belt of utter blackness. The effect was quite startling,
like some huge conjurer's trick. It seemed as if we had crossed the boundary-line between the
real and the imaginary, and this was indeed the land of shadows and of spectres. What magic
oar was that the guide wielded that it could transport me to such a realm! Indeed, had I not
committed some fatal mistake, and left that trusty servant behind, and had not some wizard
of the night stepped into his place? A slight splashing in-shore broke the spell and caused
me to turn nervously to the oarsman: "Musquash," said he, and kept strait on.

Nearing the extreme end of the pond, the boat gently headed around, and silently we glided
back into the clasp of that strange orbit. Slight sounds were heard as before, but nothing
that indicated the presence of the game we were waiting for; and we reached the point of departure
as innocent of venison as we had set out.

After an hour's delay, and near midnight, we pushed out again.  My vigilance and susceptibility
were rather sharpened than dulled by the waiting; and the features of the night had also deepened
and intensified. Night was at its meridian. The sky had that soft luminousness which may often
be observed near midnight at this season, and the "large few stars" beamed mildly down. We
floated out into that spectral shadow-land and moved slowly on as before. The silence was most
impressive. Now and then the faint yeap of some traveling bird would come from the air overhead,
or the wings of a bat whisp quickly by, or an owl hoot off in the mountains, giving to the
silence and loneliness a tongue. At short intervals some noise in-shore would startle me, and
cause me to turn inquiringly to the silent figure in the stern.

The end of the lake was reached, and we turned back.  The novelty and the excitement began
to flag; tired nature began to assert her claims; the movement was soothing, and the gunner
slumbered fitfully at his post. Presently something aroused me. "There's a deer," whispered
the guide. The gun heard, and fairly jumped in my hand. Listening, there came the crackling
of a limb, followed by a sound as of something walking in shallow water. It proceeded from
the other end of the lake, over against our camp. On we sped, noiselessly as ever, but with
increased velocity. Presently, with a thrill of new intensity, I saw the boat was gradually
heading in that direction. Now, to a sportsman who gets excited over a gray squirrel, and forgets
that he has a gun on the sudden appearance of a fox, this was a severe trial. I suddenly felt
cramped for room, and trimming the boat was out of the question. It seemed that I must make
some noise in spite of myself. "Light the jack," said a soft whisper behind me. I fumbled nervously
for a match, and dropped the first one. Another was drawn briskly across my knee and broke.
A third lighted, but went out prematurely, in my haste to get it to the jack. What would I
not have given to see those wicks blaze! We were fast nearing the shore,--already the lily-pads
began to brush along the bottom. Another attempt, and the light took. The gentle motion fanned
the blaze, and in a moment a broad glare of light fell upon the water in front of us, while
the boat remained in utter darkness.

By this time I had got beyond the nervous point, and had come round to perfect coolness and
composure again, but preternaturally vigilant and keen. I was ready for any disclosures; not
a sound was heard. In a few moments the trees alongshore were faintly visible. Every object
put on the shape of a gigantic deer. A large rock looked just ready to bound away. The dry
limbs of a prostrate tree were surely his antlers.

But what are those two luminous spots?  Need the reader be told what they were? In a moment
the head of a real deer became outlined; then his neck and foreshoulders; then his whole body.
There he stood, up to his knees in the water, gazing fixedly at us, apparently arrested in
the movement of putting his head down for a lily-pad, and evidently thinking it was some new-fangled
moon sporting about there. "Let him have it," said my prompter,--and the crash came. There
was a scuffle in the water, and a plunge in the woods. "He's gone," said I. "Wait a moment,"
said the guide, "and I will show you." Rapidly running the canoe ashore, we sprang out, and,
holding the jack aloft, explored the vicinity by its light. There, over the logs and brush,
I caught the glimmer of those luminous spots again. But, poor thing! there was little need
of the second shot, which was the unkindest of all, for the deer had already fallen to the
ground, and was fast expiring. The success was but a very indifferent one, after all, as the
victim turned out to be only an old doe, upon whom maternal cares had evidently worn heavily
during the summer.

This mode of taking deer is very novel and strange.  The animal is evidently fascinated or
bewildered. It does not appear to be frightened, but as if overwhelmed with amazement, or under
the influence of some spell. It is not sufficiently master of the situation to be sensible
of fear, or to think of escape by flight; and the experiment, to be successful, must be tried
quickly, before the first feeling of bewilderment passes.

Witnessing the spectacle from the shore, I can conceive of nothing more sudden or astounding.
You see no movement and hear no noise, but the light grows upon you, and stares and stares
like a huge eye from infernal regions.

According to the guide, when a deer has been played upon in this manner and escaped, he is
not to be fooled again a second time. Mounting the shore, he gives a long signal snort, which
alarms every animal within hearing, and dashes away.

The sequel to the deer-shooting was a little sharp practice with a revolver upon a rabbit,
or properly a hare, which was so taken with the spectacle of the camp-fire, and the sleeping
figures lying about, that it ventured quite up in our midst; but while testing the quality
of some condensed milk that sat uncovered at the foot of a large tree, poor Lepus had his spine
injured by a bullet.

Those who lodge with Nature find early rising quite in order.  It is our voluptuous beds, and
isolation from the earth and the air, that prevents us from emulating the birds and the beasts
in this respect. With the citizen in his chamber, it is not morning, but breakfast-time. The
camper-out, however, feels morning in the air, he smells it, hears it, and springs up with
the general awakening. None were tardy at the row of white chips arranged on the trunk of a
prostrate tree, when breakfast was halloed; for we were all anxious to try the venison. Few
of us, however, took a second piece. It was black and strong.

The day was warm and calm, and we loafed at leisure.  The woods were Nature's own. It was a
luxury to ramble through them,--rank and shaggy and venerable, but with an aspect singularly
ripe and mellow. No fire had consumed and no lumberman plundered. Every trunk and limb and
leaf lay where it had fallen. At every step the foot sank into the moss, which, like a soft
green snow, covered everything, making every stone a cushion and every rock a bed,--a grand
old Norse parlor; adorned beyond art and upholstered beyond skill.

Indulging in a brief nap on a rug of club-moss carelessly dropped at the foot of a pine-tree,
I woke up to find myself the subject of a discussion of a troop of chickadees. Presently three
or four shy wood warblers came to look upon this strange creature that had wandered into their
haunts; else I passed quite unnoticed.

By the lake, I met that orchard beauty, the cedar waxwing, spending his vacation in the assumed
character of a flycatcher, whose part he performed with great accuracy and deliberation. Only
a month before I had seen him regaling himself upon cherries in the garden and orchard; but
as the dog-days approached he set out for the streams and lakes, to divert himself with the
more exciting pursuits of the chase. From the tops of the dead trees along the border of the
lake, he would sally out in all directions, sweeping through long curves, alternately mounting
and descending, now reaching up for a fly high in the air, now sinking low for one near the
surface, and returning to his perch in a few moments for a fresh start.

The pine finch was also here, though, as usual never appearing at home, but with a waiting,
expectant air. Here also I met my beautiful singer, the hermit thrush, but with no song in
his throat now. A week or two later and he was on his journey southward. This was the only
species of thrush I saw in the Adirondacks. Near Lake Sandford, where were large tracks of
raspberry and wild cherry, I saw numbers of them. A boy whom we met, driving home some stray
cows, said it was the "partridge-bird," no doubt from the resemblance of its note, when disturbed,
to the cluck of the partridge.

Nate's Pond contained perch and sunfish but no trout.  Its water was not pure enough for trout.
Was there ever any other fish so fastidious as this, requiring such sweet harmony and perfection
of the elements for its production and sustenance? On higher ground about a mile distant was
a trout pond, the shores of which were steep and rocky.

Our next move was a tramp of about twelve miles through the wilderness, most of the way in
a drenching rain, to a place called the Lower Iron Works, situated on the road leading in to
Long Lake, which is about a day's drive farther on. We found a comfortable hotel here, and
were glad enough to avail ourselves of the shelter and warmth which it offered. There was a
little settlement and some quite good farms. The place commands a fine view to the north of
Indian Pass, Mount Marcy, and the adjacent mountains. On the afternoon of our arrival, and
also the next morning, the view was completely shut off by the fog. But about the middle of
the forenoon the wind changed, the fog lifted, and revealed to us the grandest mountain scenery
we had beheld on our journey. There they sat about fifteen miles distant, a group of them,--Mount
Marcy, Mount McIntyre, and Mount Golden, the real Adirondack monarchs. It was an impressive
sight, rendered double so be the sudden manner in which it was revealed to us by that scene-shifter
the Wind.

I saw blackbirds at this place, and sparrows, and the solitary sandpiper and the Canada woodpecker,
and a large number of hummingbirds. Indeed, I saw more of the latter here than I ever before
saw in any one locality. Their squeaking and whirring were almost incessant.

The Adirondack Iron Works belong to the past. Over thirty years ago a company in Jersey City
purchased some sixty thousand acres of land lying along the Adirondack River, and abounding
in magnetic iron ore. The land was cleared, roads, dams, and forges constructed, and the work
of manufacturing iron begun.

At this point a dam was built across the Hudson, the waters of which flowed back into Lake
Sandford, about five miles above. The lake itself being some six miles song, tolerable navigation
was thus established for a distance of eleven miles, to the Upper Works, which seem to have
been the only works in operation. At the Lower Works, besides the remains of the dam, the only
vestige I saw was a long low mound, overgrown with grass and weeds, that suggested a rude earthwork.
We were told that it was once a pile of wood containing hundreds of cords, cut in regular lengths
and corded up here for use in the furnaces.

At the Upper Works, some twelve miles distant, quite a village had been built, which was now
entirely abandoned, with the exception of a single family.

A march to this place was our next undertaking. The road for two or three miles kept up from
the river and led us by three or four rough stumpy farms. It then approached the lake and kept
along its shores. It was here a dilapidated corduroy structure that compelled the traveler
to keep an eye on his feet. Blue jays, two or three small hawks, a solitary wild pigeon, and
ruffled grouse were seen along the route. Now and then the lake gleamed through the trees,
or we crossed o a shaky bridge some of its arms or inlets. After a while we began to pass dilapidated
houses by the roadside. One little frame house I remembered particularly; the door was off
the hinges and leaned against the jams, the windows had but a few panes left, which glared
vacantly. The yard and little garden spot were overrun with a heavy growth of timothy, and
the fences had all long since gone to decay. At the head of the lake a large stone building
projected from the steep bank and extended over the road. A little beyond, the valley opened
to the east, and looking ahead about one mile we saw smoke going up from a single chimney.
Pressing on, just as the sun was setting we entered the deserted village. The barking dog brought
the whole family into the street, and they stood till we came up. Strangers in that country
were a novelty, and we were greeted like familiar acquaintances.

Hunter, the head, proved to be a first-rate type of an Americanized Irishman. His wife was
a Scotch woman. They had a family of five or six children, two of them grown-up daughters,--modest,
comely young women as you would find anywhere. The elder of the two had spent a winter in New
York with her aunt, which made her a little more self-conscious when in the presence of the
strange young men. Hunter was hired by the company at a dollar a day to live here and see that
things were not wantonly destroyed, but allowed to go to decay properly and decently. He had
a substantial roomy frame house and any amount of grass and woodland. He had good barns and
kept considerable stock, and raised various farm products, but only for his own use, as the
difficulties of transportation to market some seventy miles distant make it no object. He usually
went to Ticonderoga on Lake Champlain once a year for his groceries, etc. His post-office was
twelve miles below at the Lower Works, where the mail passed twice a week. There was not a
doctor, or lawyer, or preacher within twenty-five miles. In winter, months elapse without their
seeing anybody from the outside world. In summer, parties occasionally pass through here on
their way to Indian Pass and Mount Marcy. Hundreds of tons of good timothy hay annually rot
upon the cleared land.

After nightfall we went out and walked up and down the grass-grown streets. It was a curious
and melancholy spectacle. The remoteness and surrounding wildness rendered the scene doubly
impressive. And the next day and the next the place was an object of wonder. There were about
thirty buildings in all, most of them small frame houses with a door and two windows opening
into a small yard in front and a garden in the rear, such as are usually occupied by the laborers
in a country manufacturing district. There was one large two-story boarding-house, a schoolhouse
with cupola and a bell in it, and numerous sheds and forges, and a saw-mill. In front of the
saw-mill, and ready to be rolled to their place on the carriage, lay a large pile of pine logs,
so decayed that one could run his walking-stick through them. Near by, a building filled with
charcoal was bursting open and the coal going to waste on the ground. The smelting works were
also much crumbled by time. The schoolhouse was still used. Every day one of the daughters
assembles her smaller brothers and sisters there and school keeps. The district library contained
nearly one hundred readable books which were well thumbed.

The absence of society had made the family all good readers.  We brought them an illustrated
newspaper, which was awaiting them in the post-office at the Lower Works. It was read and reread
with great eagerness by every member of the household.

The iron ore cropped out on every hand.  There was apparently mountains of it; one could see
it in the stones along the road. But the difficulties met with in separating the iron from
its alloys, together with the expense of transportation and the failure of certain railroad
schemes, caused the works to be abandoned. No doubt the time is not distant when these obstacles
will be overcome and this region reopened.

At present it is an admirable place to go to. There is fishing and hunting and boating and
mountain-climbing within easy reach, and a good roof over your head at night, which is no small
matter. One is often disqualified for enjoying the woods after he gets there by the loss of
sleep and of proper food taken at seasonable times. This point attended to, one is in the humor
for any enterprise.

About half a mile northeast of the village is Lake Henderson, a very irregular and picturesque
sheet of water surrounded by dark evergreen forests, and abutted by two or three bold promontories
with mottled white and gray rocks. Its greatest extent in any one direction is perhaps less
than a mile. Its waters are perfectly clear and abound in lake trout. A considerable stream
flows into it, which comes down from Indian Pass.

A mile south of the village is Lake Sandford. This is a more open and exposed sheet of water
and much larger. From some parts of it Mount Marcy and the gorge of the Indian Pass are seen
to excellent advantage. The Indian Pass shows as a huge cleft in the mountain, the gray walls
rising on one side perpendicularly for many hundred feet. This lake abounds in white and yellow
perch and in pickerel; of the latter single specimens are often caught which weigh fifteen
pounds. There were a few wild ducks on both lakes. A brood of the goosander or red merganser,
the young not yet able to fly, were the occasion of some spirited rowing. But with two pairs
of oars in a trim light skiff, it was impossible to come up with them. Yet we could not resist
the temptation to give them a chase every day when we first came on the lake. It needed a good
long pull to sober us down so we could fish.

The land on the east side of the lake had been burnt over, and was now mostly grown up with
wild cherry and red raspberry bushes. Ruffed grouse were found here in great numbers. The Canada
grouse was also common. I shot eight of the latter in less than an hour on one occasion; the
eighth one, which was an old male, was killed with smooth pebble-stones, my shot having run
short. The wounded bird ran under a pile of brush, like a frightened hen. Thrusting a forked
stick down through the interstices, I soon stopped his breathing. Wild pigeons were quite numerous
also. These latter recall a singular freak of the sharp-shinned hawk. A flock of pigeons alighted
on top of a dead hemlock standing in the edge of a swamp. I got over the fence and moved toward
them across an open space. I had not taken many steps when, on looking up, I saw the whole
flock again in motion flying very rapidly about the butt of a hill. Just then this hawk alighted
on the same tree. I stepped back into the road and paused a moment, in doubt which course to
go. At that instant the little hawk launched into the air and came as straight as an arrow
toward me. I looked in amazement, but in less than half a minute, he was within fifty feet
of my face, coming full tilt as if he had sighted my nose. Almost in self-defense I let fly
one barrel of my gun, and the mangled form of the audacious marauder fell literally between
my feet.

Of wild animals, such as bears, panthers, wolves, wildcats, etc., we neither saw nor heard
any in the Adirondacks. "A howling wilderness," Thoreau says, "seldom ever howls. The howling
is chiefly done by the imagination of the traveler." Hunter said he often saw bear-tracks in
the snow, but had never yet met Bruin. Deer are more or less abundant everywhere, and one old
sportsman declares there is yet a single moose in these mountains. On our return, a pioneer
settler, at whose house we stayed overnight, told us a long adventure he had had with a panther.
He related how it screamed, how it followed him in the brush, how he took to his boat, how
its eyes gleamed from the shore, and how he fired his rifle at them with fatal effect. His
wife in the mean time took something from a drawer, and, as her husband finished his recital,
she produced a toe-nail of the identical animal with marked dramatic effect.

But better than fish or game or grand scenery, or any adventure by night or day, is the wordless
intercourse with rude Nature one has on these expeditions. It is something to press the pulse
of our old mother by mountain lakes and streams, and know what health and vigor are in her
veins, and how regardless of observation she deports herself.

   1866.

V

SPRING AT THE CAPITAL WITH AN EYE TO THE BIRDS

I came to Washington to live in the fall of 1863, and, with the exception of a month each summer
spent in the interior of New York, have lived here ever since.

I saw my first novelty in Natural History the day after my arrival. As I was walking near some
woods north of the city, a grasshopper of prodigious size flew up from the ground and alighted
in a tree. As I pursued him, he proved to be nearly as wild and as fleet of wing as a bird.
I thought I had reached the capital of grasshopperdom, and that this was perhaps one of the
chiefs or leaders, or perhaps the great High Cock O'lorum himself, taking an airing in the
fields. I have never yet been able to settle the question, as every fall I start up a few of
these gigantic specimens, which perch on the trees. They are about three inches long, of a
gray striped or spotted color, and have quite a reptile look.

The greatest novelty I found, however, was the superb autumn weather, the bright, strong, electric
days, lasting well into November, and the general mildness of the entire winter. Though the
mercury occasionally sinks to zero, yet the earth is never so seared and blighted by the cold
but that in some sheltered nook or corner signs of vegetable life still remain, which on a
little encouragement even asserts itself. I have found wild flowers here every month of the
year; violets in December, a single houstonia in January (the little lump of earth upon which
it stood was frozen hard), and a tiny weed-like plant, with a flower almost microscopic in
its smallness, growing along graveled walks and in old plowed fields in February. The liverwort
sometimes comes out as early as the first week in March, and the little frogs begin to pipe
doubtfully about the same time. Apricot-trees are usually in bloom on All-Fool's Day and the
apple-trees on May Day. By August, mother hen will lead forth her third brood, and I had a
March pullet that came off with a family of her own in September. Our calendar is made for
this climate. March is a spring month. One is quite sure to see some marked and striking change
during the first eight or ten days. This season (1868) is a backward one, and the memorable
change did not come till the 10th.

Then the sun rose up from a bed of vapors, and seemed fairly to dissolve with tenderness and
warmth. For an hour or two the air was perfectly motionless, and full of low, humming, awakening
sounds. The naked trees had a rapt, expectant look. From some unreclaimed common near by came
the first strain of the song sparrow; so homely, because so old and familiar, yet so inexpressibly
pleasing. Presently a full chorus of voices arose, tender, musical, half suppressed, but full
of genuine hilarity and joy. The bluebird warbled, the robin called, the snowbird chattered,
the meadowlark uttered her strong but tender note. Over a deserted field a turkey buzzard hovered
low, and alighted on a stake in the fence, standing a moment with outstretched, vibrating wings
till he was sure of his hold. A soft, warm, brooding day. Roads becoming dry in many places,
and looking so good after the mud and the snow. I walk up beyond the boundary and over Meridian
Hill. To move along the drying road and feel the delicious warmth is enough. The cattle low
long and loud, and look wistfully into the distance. I sympathize with them. Never a spring
comes but I have an almost irresistible desire to depart. Some nomadic or migrating instinct
or reminiscence stirs within me. I ache to be off.

As I pass along, the high-bole calls in the distance precisely as I have heard him in the North.
After a pause he repeats his summons. What can be more welcome to the ear than these early
first sounds! They have such a margin of silence!

One need but pass the boundary of Washington city to be fairly in the country, and ten minutes'
walk in the country brings one to real primitive woods. The town has not yet overflowed its
limits like the great Northern commercial capitals, and Nature, wild and unkempt, comes up
to its very threshold, and even in many places crosses it.

The woods, which I soon reach, are stark and still.  The signs of returning life are so faint
as to be almost imperceptible, but there is a fresh, earthy smell in the air, as if something
had stirred here under the leaves. The crows caw above the wood, or walk about the brown fields.
I look at the gray silent trees long and long, but they show no sign. The catkins of some alders
by a little pool have just swelled perceptibly; and, brushing away the dry leaves and débris
on a sunny slope, I discover the liverwort just pushing up a fuzzy, tender sprout. But the
waters have brought forth. The little frogs are musical. From every marsh and pool goes up
their shrill but pleasing chorus. Peering into one of their haunts, a little body of semi-stagnant
water, I discover masses of frogs' spawn covering the bottom. I take up great chunks of the
cold, quivering jelly in my hands. In some places there are gallons of it. A youth who accompanies
me wonders if it would not be good cooked, or if it could not be used as a substitute for eggs.
It is a perfect jelly, of a slightly milky tinge, thickly imbedded with black spots about the
size of a small bird's eye. When just deposited it is perfectly transparent. These hatch in
eight or ten days, gradually absorb their gelatinous surroundings, and the tiny tadpoles issue
forth.

In the city, even before the shop-windows have caught the inspiration, spring is heralded by
the silver poplars which line all the streets and avenues. After a few mild, sunshiny March
days, you suddenly perceive a change has come over the trees. Their tops have a less naked
look. If the weather continues warm, a single day will work wonders. Presently each tree will
be one vast plume of gray, downy tassels, while not the least speck of green foliage is visible.
The first week of April these long mimic caterpillars lie all about the streets and fill the
gutters.

The approach of spring is also indicated by the crows and buzzards, which rapidly multiply
in the environs of the city, and grow bold and demonstrative. The crows are abundant here all
winter, but are not very noticeable except as they pass high in air to and from their winter
quarters in the Virginia woods. Early in the morning, as soon as it is light enough to discern
them, there they are, streaming eastward across the sky, now in loose, scattered flocks, now
in thick dense masses, then singly and in pairs or triplets, but all setting in one direction,
probably to the waters of eastern Maryland. Toward night they begin to return, flying in the
same manner, and directing their course to the wooded heights on the Potomac, west of the city.
In spring these diurnal mass movements cease; the clan breaks up, the rookery is abandoned,
and the birds scatter broadcast over the land. This seems to be the course everywhere pursued.
One would think that, when food was scarcest, the policy of separating into small bands or
pairs, and dispersing over a wide country, would prevail, as a few might subsist where a larger
number would starve. The truth is, however, that, in winter, food can be had only in certain
clearly defined districts and tracts, as along rivers and the shores of bays and lakes.

A few miles north of Newburgh, on the Hudson, the crows go into winter quarters in the same
manner, flying south in the morning and returning again at night, sometimes hugging the hills
so close during a strong wind as to expose themselves to the clubs and stones of schoolboys
ambushed behind trees and fences. The belated ones, that come laboring along just at dusk,
are often so overcome by the long journey and the strong current that they seem almost on the
point of sinking down whenever the wind or a rise in the ground calls upon them for an extra
effort.

The turkey buzzards are noticeable about Washington as soon as the season begins to open, sailing
leisurely along two or three hundred feet overhead, or sweeping low over some common or open
space where, perchance, a dead puppy or pig or fowl has been thrown. Half a dozen will sometimes
alight about some object out on the commons, and, with their broad dusky wings lifted up to
their full extent, threaten and chase each other, while perhaps one or two are feeding. Their
wings are very large and flexible, and the slightest motion of them, while the bird stands
upon the ground, suffices to lift its feet clear. Their movements when in the air are very
majestic and beautiful to the eye, being in every respect identical with those of our common
hen or red-tailed hawk. They sail along in the same calm, effortless, interminable manner,
and sweep around in the same ample spiral. The shape of their wings and tail, indeed their
entire effect against the sky, except in size and color, is very nearly the same as that of
the hawk mentioned. A dozen at a time may often be seen high in air, amusing themselves by
sailing serenely round and round in the same circle.

They are less active and vigilant than the hawk; never poise themselves on the wing, never
dive and gambol in the air, and never swoop down upon their prey; unlike the hawks also, they
appear to have no enemies. The crow fights the hawk, and the kingbird and the crow blackbird
fight the crow; but neither takes any notice of the buzzard. He excites the enmity of none,
for the reason that he molests none. The crow has an old grudge against the hawk, because the
hawk robs the crow's nest and carries off his young; the kingbird's quarrel with the crow is
upon the same grounds. But the buzzard never attacks live game, or feeds upon new flesh when
old can be had.

In May, like the crows, they nearly all disappear very suddenly, probably to their breeding-haunts
near the seashore. Do the males separate from the females at this time, and go by themselves?
At any rate, in July I discovered that a large number of buzzards roosted in some woods near
Rock Creek, about a mile from the city limits; and, as they do not nest anywhere in this vicinity,
I thought they might be males. I happened to be detained late in the woods, watching the nest
of a flying squirrel, when the buzzards, just after sundown, began to come by ones and twos
and alight in the trees near me. Presently they came in greater numbers, but from the same
direction, flapping low over the woods, and taking up their position in the middle branches.
On alighting, each one would blow very audibly through his nose, just as a cow does when she
lies down; this is the only sound I have ever heard the buzzard make. They would then stretch
themselves, after the manner of turkeys, and walk along the limbs. Sometimes a decayed branch
would break under the weight of two or three, when, with a great flapping, the would take up
new positions. They continued to come till it was quite dark, and all the trees about me were
full. I began to feel a little nervous, but kept my place. After it was entirely dark and all
was still, I gathered a large pile of dry leaves and kindled it with a match, to see what they
would think of a fire. Not a sound was heard till the pile of leaves was in full blaze, when
instantaneously every buzzard started. I thought the treetops were coming down upon me, so
great was the uproar. But the woods were soon cleared, and the loathsome pack disappeared in
the night.

About the 1st of June I saw numbers of buzzards sailing around over the great Falls of the Potomac.

A glimpse of the birds usually found here in the latter part of winter may be had in the following
extract, which I take from my diary under date of February 4th:--

"Made a long excursion through the woods and over the hills.  Went directly north from the
Capitol for about three miles. The ground bare and the day cold and sharp. In the suburbs,
among the scattered Irish and negro shanties, came suddenly upon a flock of birds, feeding
about like our northern snow buntings. Every now and then they uttered a piping, disconsolate
note, as if they had a very sorry time of it. They proved to be shore larks, the first I had
ever seen. They had the walk characteristic of all larks; were a little larger than the sparrow;
had a black spot on the breast, with much white on the under parts of their bodies. As I approached
them the nearer ones paused, and, half squatting, eyed me suspiciously. Presently, at a movement
of my arm, away they went, flying exactly like the snow bunting, and showing nearly as much
white." (I have since discovered that the shore lark is a regular visitant here in February
and March, when large quantities of them are shot or trapped, and exposed for sale in the market.
During a heavy snow I have seen numbers of them feeding upon the seeds of various weedy growths
in a large market-garden well into town.) "Pressing on, the walk became exhilarating. Followed
a little brook, the eastern branch of the Tiber, lined with bushes and a rank growth of green-brier.
Sparrows started out here and there, and flew across the little bends and points. Among some
pines just beyond the boundary, saw a number of American goldfinches, in their gray winter
dress, pecking the pinecones. A golden-crowned kinglet was there also, a little tuft of gray
feathers, hopping about as restless as a spirit. Had the old pine-trees food delicate enough
for him also? Farther on, in some low open woods, saw many sparrows,--the fox, white-throated,
white-crowned, the Canada, the song, the swamp,--all herding together along the warm and sheltered
borders. To my surprise, saw a chewink also, and the yellow-rumped warbler. The purple finch
was there likewise, and the Carolina wren and brown creeper. In the higher, colder woods not
a bird was to be seen. Returning, near sunset, across the eastern slope of a hill which overlooked
the city, was delighted to see a number of grass finches or vesper sparrows,--birds which will
be forever associated in my mind with my father's sheep pastures. They ran before me, now flitting
a pace or two, now skulking in the low stubble, just as I had observed them when a boy."

A month later, March 4th, is this note:--

"After the second memorable inaguration of President Lincoln, took my first trip of the season.
The afternoon was very clear and warm,--real vernal sunshine at last, though the wind roared
like a lion over the woods. It seemed novel enough to find within two miles of the White House
a simple woodsman chopping away as if no President was being inaugurated! Some puppies, snugly
nestled in the cavity of an old hollow tree, he said, belonged to a wild dog. I imagine I saw
the 'wild dog,' on the other side of Rock Creek, in a great state of grief and trepidation,
running up and down, crying and yelping, and looking wistfully over the swollen flood, which
the poor thing had not the courage to brave. This day, for the first time, I heard the song
of the Canada sparrow, a soft, sweet note, almost running into a warble. Saw a small, black
velvety butterfly with a yellow border to its wings. Under a warm bank found two flowers of
the houstonia in bloom. Saw frogs' spawn near Piny Branch, and heard the hyla."

Among the first birds that make their appearance in Washington is the crow blackbird. He may
come any time after the 1st of March. The birds congregate in large flocks, and frequent groves
and parks, alternately swarming in the treetops and filling the air with their sharp jangle,
and alighting on the ground in quest of food, their polished coats glistening in the sun from
very blackness as they walk about. There is evidently some music in the soul of this bird at
this season, though he makes a sad failure in getting it out. His voice always sounds as if
he were laboring under a severe attack of influenza, though a large flock of them, heard at
a distance on a bright afternoon of early spring, produce an effect not unpleasing. The air
is filled with crackling, splintering, spurting, semi-musical sounds, which are like pepper
and salt to the ear.

All parks and public grounds about the city are full of blackbirds. They are especially plentiful
in the trees about the White House, breeding there and waging war on all other birds. The occupants
of one of the offices in the west wing of the Treasury one day had their attention attracted
by some object striking violently against one of the window-panes. Looking up, they beheld
a crow blackbird pausing in midair, a few feet from the window. On the broad stone window-sill
lay the quivering form of a purple finch. The little tragedy was easily read. The blackbird
had pursued the finch with such murderous violence that the latter, in its desperate efforts
to escape, had sought refuge in the Treasury. The force of the concussion against the heavy
plateglass of the window had killed the poor thing instantly. The pursuer, no doubt astonished
at the sudden and novel termination of the career of its victim, hovered for a moment, as if
to be sure of what had happened, and made off.

(It is not unusual for birds, when thus threatened with destruction by their natural enemy,
to become so terrified as to seek safety in the presence of man. I was once startled, while
living in a country village, to behold, on entering my room at noon, one October day, a quail
sitting upon my bed. The affrighted and bewildered bird instantly started for the open window,
into which it had no doubt been driven by a hawk.)

The crow blackbird has all the natural cunning of his prototype, the crow. In one of the inner
courts of the Treasury building there is a fountain with several trees growing near. By midsummer
the blackbirds became so bold as to venture within this court. Various fragments of food, tossed
from the surrounding windows, reward their temerity. When a crust of dry bread defies their
beaks, they have been seen to drop it into the water, and, when it has become soaked sufficiently,
to take it out again.

They build a nest of coarse sticks and mud, the whole burden of the enterprise seeming to devolve
upon the female. For several successive mornings, just after sunrise, I used to notice a pair
of them flying to and fro in the air above me as I hoed in the garden, directing their course
about half a mile distant, and disappearing, on their return, among the trees about the Capitol.
Returning, the female always had her beak loaded with building material, while the male, carrying
nothing, seemed to act as her escort, flying a little above and in advance of her, and uttering
now and then his husky, discordant note. As I tossed a lump of earth up at them, the frightened
mother bird dropped her mortar, and the pair scurried away, much put out. Later they avenged
themselves by pilfering my cherries.

The most mischievous enemies of the cherries, however, here as at the North, are the cedar
waxwings, or "cherry-birds." How quickly they spy out the tree! Long before the cherry begins
to turn, they are around, alert and cautious. In small flocks they circle about, high in the
air, uttering their fine note, or plunge quickly into the tops of remote trees. Day by day
they approach nearer and nearer, reconnoitring the premises, and watching the growing fruit.
Hardly have the green lobes turned a red cheek to the sun, before their beaks have scarred
it. At first they approach the tree stealthily, on the side turned from the house, diving quickly
into the branches in ones and twos, while the main flock is ambushed in some shade tree not
far off. They are most apt to commit their depredations very early in the morning and on cloudy,
rainy days. As the cherries grow sweeter the birds grow bolder, till, from throwing tufts of
grass, one has to throw stones in good earnest, or lose all his fruit. In June they disappear,
following the cherries to the north, where by July they are nesting in the orchards and cedar
groves.

Among the permanent summer residents here (one might say city residents, as they seem more
abundant in town than out), the yellow warbler or summer yellowbird is conspicuous. He comes
about the middle of April, and seems particularly attached to the silver poplars. In every
street, and all day long, one may hear his thin, sharp warble. When nesting, the female comes
about the yard, pecking at the clothes-line, and gathering up bits of thread to weave into
her nest.

Swallows appear in Washington form the first to the middle of April. They come twittering along
in the way so familiar to every New England boy. The barn swallow is heard first, followed
in a day or two by the squeaking of the cliff swallow. The chimney swallows, or swifts, are
not far behind, and remain here in large numbers, the whole season. The purple martins appear
in April, as they pass north, and again in July and August on their return, accompanied by
their young.

The national capital is situated in such a vast spread of wild, wooded, or semi-cultivated
country and is in itself so open and spacious, with its parks and large government reservations,
that an unusual number of birds find their way into it in the course of the season. Rare warblers,
as the black-poll, the yellow-poll, and the bay-breasted, pausing in May on their northward
journey, pursue their insect game in the very heart of the town.

I have heard the veery thrush in the trees near the White House; and one rainy April morning,
about six o'clock, he came and blew his soft, mellow flute in a pear-tree in my garden. The
tones had all the sweetness and wildness they have when heard in June in our deep northern
forests. A day or two afterward, in the same tree, I heard for the first time the song of the
ruby-crowned wren, or kinglet,--the same liquid bubble and cadence which characterize the wren-songs
generally, but much finer and more delicate than the song of any other variety known to me;
beginning in a fine, round, needle-like note, and rising into a full, sustained warble, [SYMBOL
DELETED] a strain, on whole, remarkably exquisite and pleasing, the singer being all the while
as busy as a bee, catching some kind of insects. It is certainly on of our most beautiful bird-songs,
and Audubon's enthusiasm concerning its song, as he heard it in the wilds of Labrador, is not
a bit extravagant. The song of the kinglet is the only characteristic that allies it to the wrens.

The Capitol grounds, with their fine large trees of many varieties, draw many kinds of birds.
In the rear of the building the extensive grounds are peculiarly attractive, being a gentle
slope, warm and protected, and quite thickly wooded. Here in early spring I go to hear the
robins, catbirds, blackbirds, wrens, etc. In March the white-throated and white-crowned sparrows
may be seen, hopping about on the flower-beds or peering slyly from the evergreens. The robin
hops about freely upon the grass, notwithstanding the keepers large-lettered warning, and at
intervals, and especially at sunset, carols from the treetops his loud, hearty strain.

The kingbird and orchard starling remain the whole season, and breed in the treetops. The rich,
copious song of the starling may be heard there all the forenoon. The song of some birds is
like scarlet,--strong, intense, emphatic. This is the character of the orchard starlings, also
the tanagers and the various grosbeaks. On the other hand, the songs of other birds, as of
certain of the thrushes, suggest the serene blue of the upper sky.

In February one may hear, in the Smithsonian grounds, the song of the fox sparrow. It is a
strong, richly modulated whistle,--the finest sparrow note I have ever heard.

A curious and charming sound may be heard here in May.  You are walking forth in the soft morning
air, when suddenly there comes a burst of bobolink melody form some mysterious source. A score
of throats pour out one brief, hilarious, tuneful jubilee and are suddenly silent. There is
a strange remoteness and fascination about it. Presently you will discover its source skyward,
and a quick eye will detect the gay band pushing northward. They seem to scent the fragrant
meadows afar off, and shout forth snatches of their songs in anticipation.

The bobolink does not breed in the District, but usually pauses in his journey and feeds during
the day in the grass-lands north of the city. When the season is backward, they tarry a week
or ten days, singing freely and appearing quite at home. In large flocks they search over every
inch of ground, and at intervals hover on the wing or alight in the treetops, all pouring forth
their gladness at once, and filling the air with a multitudinous musical clamor.

They continue to pass, traveling by night and feeding by day, till after the middle of May,
when they cease. In September, with numbers greatly increased, they are on their way back.
I am first advised of their return by hearing their calls at night as they fly over the city.
On certain nights the sound becomes quite noticeable. I have awakened in the middle of the
night, and, through the open window, as I lay in bed, heard their faint notes. The warblers
begin to return about the same time, and are clearly distinguished by their timid yeaps. On
dark, cloudy nights the birds seem confused by the lights of the city, and apparently wander
about above it.

In the spring the same curious incident is repeated, though but few voices can be identified.
I make out the snowbird, the bobolink, the warblers, and on two nights during the early part
of May I heard very clearly the call of the sandpipers.

Instead of the bobolink, one encounters here, in the June meadows, the black-throated bunting,
a bird very closely related to the sparrows and a very persistent if not a very musical songster.
He perches upon the fences and upon the trees by the roadside, and, spreading his tail, gives
forth his harsh strain, which may be roughly worded thus: fscp fscp, fee fee fee. Like all
sounds associated with early summer, it soon has a charm to the ear quite independent of its
intrinsic merits.

Outside of the city limits, the great point of interest to the rambler and lover of nature
is the Rock Creek region. Rock Creek is a large, rough, rapid stream, which has its source
in the interior of Maryland, and flows in to the Potomac between Washington and Georgetown.
Its course, for five or six miles out of Washington, is marked by great diversity of scenery.
Flowing in a deep valley, which now and then becomes a wild gorge with overhanging rocks and
high precipitous headlands, for the most part wooded; here reposing in long, dark reaches,
there sweeping and hurrying around a sudden bend or over a rocky bed; receiving at short intervals
small runs and spring rivulets, which open up vistas and outlooks to the right and left, of
the most charming description,--Rock Creek has an abundance of all the elements that make up
not only pleasing but wild and rugged scenery. There is perhaps, not another city in the Union
that has on its very threshold so much natural beauty and grandeur, such as men seek for in
remote forests and mountains. A few touches of art would convert this whole region, extending
from Georgetown to what is known as Crystal Springs, not more than two miles from the present
State Department, into a park unequaled by anything in the world. There are passages between
these two points as wild and savage, and apparently as remote from civilization, as anything
one meets with in the mountain sources of the Hudson or the Delaware.

One of the tributaries to Rock Creek within this limit is called Piny Branch. It is a small,
noisy brook, flowing through a valley of great natural beauty and picturesqueness, shaded nearly
all the way by woods of oak, chestnut, and beech, and abounding in dark recesses and hidden
retreats.

I must not forget to mention the many springs with which this whole region is supplied, each
the centre of some wild nook, perhaps the head of a little valley one or two hundred yards
long, through which one catches a glimpse, or hears the voice, of the main creek rushing along
below.

My walks tend in this direction more frequently than in any other. Here the boys go, too, troops
of them, of a Sunday, to bathe and prowl around, and indulge the semi-barbarous instincts that
still lurk within them. Life, in all its forms, is most abundant near water. The rank vegetation
nurtures the insects, and the insects draw the birds. The first week in March, on some southern
slope where the sunshine lies warm and long, I usually find the hepatica in bloom, though with
scarcely an inch of stalk. In the spring runs, the skunk cabbage pushes its pike up through
the mould, the flower appearing first, as if Nature had made a mistake.

It is not till about the 1st of April that many wild flowers may be looked for. By this time
the hepatica, anemone saxifrage, arbutus, houstonia, and bloodroot may be counted on. A week
later, the claytonia or spring beauty, water-cress, violets, a low buttercup, vetch, corydalis,
and potentilla appear. These comprise most of the April flowers, and may be found in great
profusion in the Rock Creek and Piny Branch region.

In each little valley or spring run, some one species predominates.  I know invariably where
to look for the first liverwort, and where the largest and finest may be found. On a dry, gravelly,
half-wooded hill-slope the bird's-foot violet grows in great abundance, and is sparse in neighboring
districts. This flower, which I never saw in the North, is the most beautiful and showy of
all the violets, and calls forth rapturous applause from all persons who visit the woods. It
grows in little groups and clusters, and bears a close resemblance to the pansies of the gardens.
Its two purple, velvety petals seem to fall over tiny shoulders like a rich cape.

On the same slope, and on no other, I go about the 1st of May for lupine, or sun-dial, which
makes the ground look blue from a little distance; on the other or northern side of the slope,
the arbutus, during the first half of April, perfumes the wildwood air. A few paces farther
on, in the bottom of a little spring run, the mandrake shades the ground with its miniature
umbrellas. It begins to push its green finger-points up through the ground by the 1st of April,
but is not in bloom till the 1st of May. It has a single white, wax-like flower, with a sweet,
sickish odor, growing immediately beneath its broad leafy top. By the same run grow watercresses
and two kinds of anemones,--the Pennsylvania and the grove anemone. The bloodroot is very common
at the foot of almost every warm slope in the Rock Creek woods, and, where the wind has tucked
it up well with the coverlid of dry leaves, makes its appearance almost as soon as the liverwort.
It is singular how little warmth is necessary to encourage these earlier flowers to put forth.
It would seem as if some influence must come on in advance underground and get things ready,
so that, when the outside temperature is propitious, they at once venture out. I have found
the bloodroot when it was still freezing two or three nights in the week, and have known at
least three varieties of early flowers to be buried in eight inches of snow.

Another abundant flower in the Rock Creek region is the spring beauty. Like most others, it
grows in streaks. A few paces from where your attention is monopolized by violets or arbutus,
it is arrested by the claytonia, growing in such profusion that it is impossible to set the
foot down without crushing the flowers. Only the forenoon walker sees them in all their beauty,
as later in the day their eyes are closed, and their pretty heads drooped in slumber. In only
one locality do I find the lady's-slipper,--a yellow variety. The flowers that overleap all
bounds in this section are the houstonias. By the 1st of April they are very noticeable in
warm, damp places along the borders of the woods and in half-cleared fields, but by May these
localities are clouded with them. They become visible from the highway across wide fields,
and look like little puffs of smoke clinging close to the ground.

On the 1st of May I go to the Rock Creek or Piny Branch region to hear the wood thrush. I always
find him by this date leisurely chanting his lofty strain; other thrushes are seen now also,
or even earlier, as Wilson's, the olive-backed, the hermit,--the two latter silent, but the
former musical.

Occasionally in the earlier part of May I find the woods literally swarming with warblers,
exploring every branch and leaf, from the tallest tulip to the lowest spice-bush, so urgent
is the demand for food during their long northern journeys. At night they are up and away.
Some varieties, as the blue yellow-back, the chestnut-sided, and the Blackburnian, during their
brief stay, sing nearly as freely as in their breeding-haunts. For two or three years I have
chanced to meet little companies of the bay-breasted warbler, searching for food in an oak
wood on an elevated piece of ground. They kept well up among the branches, were rather slow
in their movements, and evidently disposed to tarry but a short time.

The summer residents here, belonging to this class of birds, are few. I have observed the black
and white creeping warbler, the Kentucky warbler, the worm-eating warbler, the redstart, and
the gnat-catcher, breeding near Rock Creek.

Of these the Kentucky warbler is by far the most interesting, though quite rare. I meet with
him in low, damp places in the woods, usually on the steep sides of some little run. I hear
at intervals a clear, strong, bell-like whistle or warble, and presently catch a glimpse of
the bird as he jumps up from the ground to take an insect or worm from the under side of a
leaf. This is his characteristic movement. He belongs to the class of ground warblers, and
his range is very low, indeed lower than that of any other species with which I am acquainted.
He is on the ground nearly all the time, moving rapidly along, taking spiders and bugs, overturning
leaves, peeping under sticks and into crevices, and every now and then leaping up eight or
ten inches to take his game from beneath some overhanging leaf or branch. Thus each species
has its range more or less marked. Draw a line three feet from the ground, and you mark the
usual limit of the Kentucky warbler's quest for food. Six or eight feet higher bounds the usual
range of such birds as the worm-eating warbler, the mourning ground warbler, the Maryland yellow-throat.
The lower branches of the higher growths and the higher branches of the lower growths are plainly
preferred by the black-throated blue-backed warbler in those localities where he is found.
The thrushes feed mostly on and near the ground, while some of the vireos and the true flycatchers
explore the highest branches. But the warblers, as a rule, are all partial to thick, rank undergrowths.

The Kentucky warbler is a large bird for the genus and quite notable in appearance. His back
is clear olive-green, his throat and breast bright yellow. A still more prominent feature is
a black streak on the side of the face, extending down the neck.

Another familiar bird here, which I never met with in the North, is the gnatcatcher, called
by Audubon the blue-gray flycatching warbler. In form and manner it seems almost a duplicate
of the catbird on a small scale. It mews like a young kitten, erects its tail, flirts, droops
its wings, goes through a variety of motions when disturbed by your presence, and in many ways
recalls its dusky prototype. Its color above is a light gray-blue, gradually fading till it
becomes white on the breast and belly. It is a very small bird, and has a long, facile, slender
tail. Its song is a lisping, chattering, incoherent warble, now faintly reminding one of the
goldfinch, now of a miniature catbird, then of a tiny yellow-hammer, having much variety, but
no unity and little cadence.

Another bird which has interested me here is the Louisiana water thrush, called also large-billed
water-thrush, and water-wagtail. It is one of a trio of birds which has confused the ornithologists
much. The other two species are the well-known golden-crowned thrush or wood-wagtail, and the
northern, or small, water-thrush.

The present species, though not abundant, is frequently met with along Rock Creek. It is a
very quick, vivacious bird, and belongs to the class of ecstatic singers. I have seen a pair
of these thrushes, on a bright May day, flying to and fro between two spring runs, alighting
at intermediate points, the male breaking out into one of the most exuberant, unpremeditated
strains I ever heard. Its song is a sudden burst, beginning with three or four clear round
notes much resembling certain tones of the clarinet, and terminating in a rapid, intricate warble.

This bird resembles a thrush only in its color, which is olive-brown above and grayish white
beneath, with speckled throat and breast. Its habits, manners, and voice suggest those of a lark.

I seldom go the Rock Creek route without being amused and sometimes annoyed by the yellow-breasted
chat. This bird also has something of the manners and build of the catbird, yet he is truly
an original. The catbird is mild and feminine compared with this rollicking polyglot. His voice
is very loud and strong and quite uncanny. No sooner have you penetrated his retreat, which
is usually a thick undergrowth in low, wet localities, near the woods or in old fields, than
he begins his serenade, which for the variety, grotesqueness, and uncouthness of the notes
is not unlike a country skimmerton. If one passes directly along, the bird may scarcely break
the silence. But pause a while, or loiter quietly about, and your presence stimulates him to
do his best. He peeps quizzically at you from beneath the branches, and gives a sharp feline
mew. In a moment more he says very distinctly, who, who. Then in rapid succession follow notes
the most discordant that ever broke the sylvan silence. Now he barks like a puppy, then quacks
like a duck, then rattles like a kingfisher, then squalls like a fox, then caws like a crow,
then mews like a cat. Now he calls as if to be heard a long way off, then changes his key,
as if addressing the spectator. Though very shy, and carefully keeping himself screened when
you show any disposition to get a better view, he will presently, if you remain quiet, ascend
a twig, or hop out on a branch in plain sight, lop his tail, droop his wings, cock his head,
and become very melodramatic. In less than half a minute he darts into the bushes again, and
again tunes up, no Frenchman rolling his r's so fluently. C-r-r-r-r-r-- Wrrr, --that's it,
--chee, --quack, cluck, --yit-yit-yit, --now hit it, --tr-r-r-r, --when, --caw, caw, --cut,
cut, --tea-boy, --who, who, --mew, mew, --and so on till you are tired of listening. Observing
one very closely one day, I discovered that he was limited to six notes or changes, which he
went through in regular order, scarcely varying a note in a dozen repetitions. Sometimes, when
a considerable distance off, he will fly down to have a nearer view of you. And such curious,
expressive flight,--legs extended, head lowered, wings rapidly vibrating, the whole action
piquant and droll!

The chat is an elegant bird, both in form and color.  Its plumage is remarkably firm and compact.
Color above, light olive-green; beneath, bright yellow; beak, black and strong.

The cardinal grosbeak, or Virginia redbird, is quite common in the same localities, though
more inclined to seek the woods. It is much sought after by bird fanciers, and by boy gunners,
and consequently is very shy. This bird suggests a British redcoat; his heavy, pointed beak,
his high cockade, the black stripe down his face, the expression of weight and massiveness
about his head and neck, and his erect attitude, give him a decided soldier-like appearance;
and there is something of the tone of the fife in his song or whistle, while his ordinary note,
when disturbed, is like the clink of a sabre. Yesterday, as I sat indolently swinging in the
loop of a grapevine, beneath a thick canopy of green branches, in a secluded nook by a spring
run, one of these birds came pursuing some kind of insect, but a few feet above me. He hopped
about, now and then uttering his sharp note, till some moth or beetle trying to escape, he
broke down through the cover almost where I sat. The effect was like a firebrand coming down
through the branches. Instantly catching sight of me, he darted away much alarmed. The female
is tinged with brown, and shows but a little red except when she takes flight.

By far the most abundant species of woodpecker about Washington is the red-headed. It is more
common than the robin. Not in the deep woods, but among the scattered dilapidated oaks and
groves, on the hills and in the fields, I hear almost every day his uncanny note, ktr-r-r,
ktr-r-r, like that of some larger tree-toad, proceeding from an oak grove just beyond the boundary.
He is a strong-scented fellow, and very tough. Yet how beautiful, as he flits about the open
woods, connecting the trees by a gentle arc of crimson and white! This is another bird with
a military look. His deliberate, dignified ways, and his bright uniform of red, white, and
steel-blue, bespeak him an officer of rank.

Another favorite beat of mine is northeast of the city.  Looking from the Capitol in this direction,
scarcely more than a mile distant, you see a broad green hill-slope, falling very gently, and
spreading into a large expanse of meadow-land. The summit, if so gentle a swell of greensward
may be said to have a summit, is covered with a grove of large oaks; and, sweeping black out
of sight like a mantle, the front line of a thick forest bounds the sides. This emerald landscape
is seen from a number of points in the city. Looking along New York Avenue from Northern Liberty
Market, the eye glances, as it were, from the red clay of the street, and alights upon this
fresh scene in the distance. It is a standing invitation to the citizen to come forth and be
refreshed. As I turn from some hot, hard street, how inviting it looks! I bathe my eyes in
it as in a fountain. Sometimes troops of cattle are seen grazing upon it. In June the gathering
of the hay may be witnessed. When the ground is covered with snow, numerous stacks, or clusters
of stacks, are still left for the eye to contemplate.

The woods which clothe the east side of this hill, and sweep away to the east, are among the
most charming to be found in the District. The main growth is oak and chestnut, with a thin
sprinkling of laurel, azalea, and dogwood. It is the only locality in which I have found the
dogtooth violet in bloom, and the best place I know of to gather arbutus. On one slope the
ground is covered with moss, through which the arbutus trails its glories.

Emerging from these woods toward the city, one sees the white dome of the Capitol soaring over
the green swell of earth immediately in front, and lifting its four thousand tons of iron gracefully
and lightly into the air. Of all the sights in Washington, that which will survive the longest
in my memory is the vision of the great dome thus rising cloud-like above the hills.

   1868.

VI

BIRCH BROWSINGS

The region of which I am about to speak lies in the southern part of the state of New York,
and comprises parts of three counties,--Ulster, Sullivan and Delaware. It is drained by tributaries
of both the Hudson and Delaware, and, next to the Adirondack section, contains more wild land
than any other tract in the State. The mountains which traverse it, and impart to it its severe
northern climate, belong properly to the Catskill range. On some maps of the State they are
called the Pine Mountains, though with obvious local impropriety, as pine, so far as I have
observed, is nowhere found upon them. "Birch Mountains" would be a more characteristic name,
as on their summits birch is the prevailing tree. They are the natural home of the black and
yellow birch, which grow here to unusual size. On their sides beech and maple abound; while,
mantling their lower slopes and darkening the valleys, hemlock formerly enticed the lumberman
and tanner. Except in remote or inaccessible localities, the latter tree is now almost never
found. In Shandaken and along the Esopus it is about the only product the country yielded,
or is likely to yield. Tanneries by the score have arisen and flourished upon the bark, and
some of them still remain. Passing through that region the present season, I saw that the few
patches of hemlock that still lingered high up on the sides of the mountains were being felled
and peeled, the fresh white boles or the trees, just stripped of their bark, being visible
a long distance.

Among these mountains there are no sharp peaks, or abrupt declivities, as in a volcanic region,
but long, uniform ranges, heavily timbered to their summits, and delighting the eye with vast,
undulating horizon lines. Looking south from the heights about the head of the Delaware, one
sees, twenty miles away, a continual succession of blue ranges, one behind the other. If a
few large trees are missing on the sky line, one can see the break a long distance off.

Approaching this region from the Hudson River side, you cross a rough, rolling stretch of country,
skirting the base of the Catskills, which from a point near Saugerties sweep inland; after
a drive of a few hours you are within the shadow of a high, bold mountain, which forms a sort
of butt-end to this part of the range, and which is simple called High Point. To the east and
southeast it slopes down rapidly to the plain, and looks defiance toward the Hudson, twenty
miles distant; in the rear of it, and radiating from it west and northwest, are numerous smaller
ranges, backing up, as it were, this haughty chief.

From this point through to Pennsylvania, a distance of nearly one hundred miles, stretches
the tract of which I speak. It is a belt of country from twenty to thirty miles wide, bleak
and wild, and but sparsely settled. The traveler on the New York and Erie Railroad gets a glimpse
of it.

Many cold, rapid trout streams, which flow to all points of the compass, have their source
in the small lakes and copious mountain springs of this region. The names of some of them are
Mill Brook, Dry Brook, Willewemack, Beaver Kill, Elk Bush Kill, Panther Kill, Neversink, Big
Ingin, and Callikoon. Beaver Kill is the main outlet on the west. It joins the Deleware in
the wilds of Hancock. The Neversink lays open the region to the south, and also joins the Delaware.
To the east, various Kills unite with the Big Ingin to form the Esopus, which flows into the
Hudson. Dry Brook and Mill Brook, both famous trout streams, from twelve to fifteen miles long,
find their way into the Delaware.

The east or Pepacton branch of the Delaware itself takes its rise near here in a deep pass
between the mountains. I have many times drunk at a copious spring by the roadside, where the
infant river first sees the light. A few yards beyond, the water flows the other way, directing
its course through the Bear Kill and Schoharie Kill into the Mohawk.

Such game and wild animals as still linger in the State are found in this region. Bears occasionally
make havoc among the sheep. The clearings at the head of a valley are oftenest the scene of
their depredations.

Wild pigeons, in immense numbers used to breed regularly in the valley of the Big Ingin and
about the head of the Neversink. The treetops for miles were full of their nests, while the
going and coming of the old birds kept up a constant din. But the gunners soon got wind of
it, and from far and near were wont to pour in during the spring, and to slaughter both old
and young. This practice soon had the effect of driving the pigeons all away, and now only
a few pairs breed in these woods.

Deer are still met with, though they are becoming scarcer every year. Last winter near seventy
head were killed on the Beaver Kill alone. I heard of one wretch, who, finding the deer snowbound,
walked up to them on his snowshoes, and one morning before breakfast slaughtered six, leaving
their carcasses where they fell. There are traditions of persons having been smitten blind
or senseless when about to commit some heinous offense, but the fact that this villain escaped
without some such visitation throws discredit on all such stories.

The great attraction, however, of this region, is the brook trout, with which the streams and
lakes abound. The water is of excessive coldness, the thermometer indicating 44° and 45°in
the springs, and 47° or 48° in the smaller streams. The trout are generally small, but in the
more remote branches their number is very great. In such localities the fish are quite black,
but in the lakes they are of a lustre and brilliancy impossible to describe.

These waters have been much visited of late years by fishing parties, and the name of the Beaver
Kill is now a potent name among New York sportsmen.

One lake, in the wilds of Callikoon, abounds in a peculiar species of white sucker, which is
of excellent quality. It is taken only in spring, during the spawning season, at the time "when
the leaves are as big as a chipmunk's ears." The fish run up the small streams and inlets,
beginning at nightfall, and continuing till the channel is literally packed with them, and
every inch of space is occupied. The fishermen pounce upon them at such times, and scoop them
up by the bushel, usually wading right into the living mass and landing the fish with their
hands. A small party will often secure in this manner a wagon-load of fish. Certain conditions
of the weather, as a warm south or southwest wind, are considered most favorable for the fish
to run.

Though familiar all my life with the outskirts of this region, I have only twice dipped into
its wilder portions. Once in 1860 a friend and myself traced the Beaver Kill to its source,
and encamped by Balsam Lake. A cold and protracted rainstorm coming on, we were obliged to
leave the woods before we were ready. Neither of us will soon forget that tramp by an unknown
route over the mountains, encumbered as we were with a hundred and one superfluities which
we had foolishly brought along to solace ourselves with in the woods; nor that halt on the
summit, where we cooked and ate our fish in the drizzling rain; nor, again, that rude log house,
with its sweet hospitality, which we reached just at nightfall on Mill Brook.

In 1868 a party of three of us set out for a brief trouting excursion to a body of water called
Thomas's Lake, situated in the same chain of mountains. On this excursion, more particularly
than on any other I have ever undertaken, I was taught how poor an Indian I should make, and
what a ridiculous figure a party of men may cut in the woods when the way is uncertain and
the mountains high.

We left our team at a farmhouse near the head of the Mill Brook, one June afternoon, and with
knapsacks on our shoulders struck into the woods at the base of the mountain, hoping to cross
the range that intervened between us and the lake by sunset. We engaged a good-natured but
rather indolent young man, who happened to be stopping at the house, and who had carried a
knapsack in the Union armies, to pilot us a couple of miles into the woods so as to guard against
any mistakes at the outset. It seemed the easiest thing in the world to find the lake. The
lay of the land was so simple, according to accounts, that I felt sure I could go it in the
dark. "Go up this little brook to its source on the side of the mountain," they said. "The
valley that contains the lake heads directly on the other side." What could be easier! But
on a little further inquiry, they said we should "bear well to the left" when we reached the
top of the mountain. This opened the doors again; "bearing well to the left" was an uncertain
performance in strange woods. We might bear so well to the left that it would bring us ill.
But why bear to the left at all, if the lake was directly opposite? Well, not quite opposite;
a little to the left. There were two or three other valleys that headed in near there. We could
easily find the right one. But to make assurance doubly sure, we engaged a guide, as stated,
to give us a good start, and go with us beyond the bearing-to-the-left point. He had been to
the lake the winter before and knew the way. Our course, the first half hour, was along an
obscure wood-road which had been used for drawing ash logs off mountain in winter. There was
some hemlock, but more maple and birch. The woods were dense and free from underbrush, the
ascent gradual. Most of the way we kept the voice of the creek in our ear on the right. I approached
it once, and found it swarming with trout. The water was as cold as one ever need wish. After
a while the ascent grew steeper, the creek became a mere rill that issued from beneath loose,
moss-covered rocks and stones, and with much labor and puffing we drew ourselves up the rugged
declivity. Every mountain has its steepest point, which is usually near the summit, in keeping,
I suppose, with the providence that makes the darkest hour just before day. It is steep, steeper,
steepest, till you emerge on the smooth level or gently rounded space at the top, which the
old ice-gods polished off so long ago.

We found this mountain had a hollow in its back where the ground was soft and swampy. Some
gigantic ferns, which we passed through, came nearly to our shoulders. We passed also several
patches of swamp honeysuckles, red with blossoms.

Our guide at length paused on a big rock where the land begin to dip down the other way, and
concluded that he had gone far enough, and that we would now have no difficulty in finding
the lake. "It must lie right down there," he said pointing with his hand. But it was plain
that he was not quite sure in his own mind. He had several times wavered in his course, and
had shown considerable embarrassment when bearing to the left across the summit. Still we thought
little of it. We were full of confidence, and bidding him adieu, plunged down the mountain-side,
following a spring run that we had no doubt left to the lake.

In these woods, which had a southeastern exposure, I first began to notice the wood thrush.
In coming up the other side, I had not seen a feather of any kind, or heard a note. Now the
golden trillide-de of the wood thrush sounded through the silent woods. While looking for a
fish-pole about halfway down the mountain, I saw a thrush's nest in a little sapling about
ten feet from the ground.

After continuing our descent till our only guide, the spring run, became quite a trout brook,
and its tiny murmur a loud brawl, we began to peer anxiously through the trees for a glimpse
of the lake, or for some conformation of the land that would indicate its proximity. An object
which we vaguely discerned in looking under the near trees and over the more distant ones proved,
on further inspection, to be a patch of plowed ground. Presently we made out a burnt fallow
near it. This was a wet blanket to our enthusiasm. No lake, no sport, no trout for supper that
night. The rather indolent young man had either played us a trick, or, as seemed more likely,
had missed the way. We were particularly anxious to be at the lake between sundown and dark,
as at that time the trout jump most freely.

Pushing on, we soon emerged into a stumpy field, at the head of a steep valley, which swept
around toward the west. About two hundred rods below us was a rude log house, with smoke issuing
from the chimney. A boy came out and moved toward the spring with a pail in his hand. We shouted
to him, when he turned and ran back into the house without pausing to reply. In a moment the
whole family hastily rushed into the yard, and turned their faces toward us. If we had come
down their chimney, they could not have seemed more astonished. Not making out what they said,
I went down to the house, and learned to my chagrin that we were still on the Mill Brook side,
having crossed only a spur of the mountain. We had not borne sufficiently to the left, so that
the main range, which, at the point of crossing, suddenly breaks off to the southeast, still
intervened between us and the lake. We were about five miles, as the water runs, from the point
of starting, and over two from the lake. We must go directly back to the top of the range where
the guide had left us, and then, by keeping well to the left, we would soon come to a line
of marked trees, which would lead us to the lake. So, turning upon our trail, we doggedly began
the work of undoing what we had just done,--in all cases a disagreeable task, in this case
a very laborious one also. It was after sunset when we turned back, and before we had got halfway
up the mountain, it began to be quite dark. We were often obliged to rest our packs against
the trees and take breath, which made our progress slow. Finally a halt was called, beside
an immense flat rock which had paused on its slide down the mountain, and we prepared to encamp
for the night. A fire was built the rock cleared off, a small ration of bread served out, our
accoutrements hung up out of the way of the hedgehogs that were supposed to infest the locality,
and then we disposed ourselves for sleep. If the owls or porcupines (and I think I heard one
of the latter in the middle of the night) reconnoitred our camp, they saw a buffalo robe spread
upon a rock, with three old felt hats arranged on one side, and three pairs of sorry-looking
cowhide boots protruding from the other.

When we lay down, there was apparently not a mosquito in the woods; but the "no-see-ems," as
Thoreau's Indian aptly named the midges, soon found us out, and after the fire had gone down,
annoyed us very much. My hands and wrists suddenly began to smart and itch in a most uncomfortable
manner. My first thought was that they had been poisoned in some way. Then the smarting extended
to my neck and face, even to my scalp, when I began to suspect what was the matter. So, wrapping
myself up more thoroughly, and stowing my hands away as best I could, I tried to sleep, being
some time behind my companions, who appeared not to mind the "no-see-ems." I was further annoyed
by some little irregularity on my side of the couch. The chambermaid had not beaten it up well.
One huge lump refused to be mollified, and each attempt to adapt it up some natural hollow
in my own body brought only a moment's relief. But at last I got the better of this also and
slept. Late in the night I woke up, just in time to hear a golden-crowned thrush sing in a
tree near by. It sang as loud and cheerily as at midday, and I thought myself, after all, quite
in luck. Birds occasionally sing at night, just as the cock crows. I have heard the hairbird,
and the note of the kingbird; and the ruffed grouse frequently drums at night.

At the first faint signs of day a wood thrush sang, a few rods below us. Then after a little
delay, as the gray light began to grow around, thrushes broke out in full song in all parts
of the woods. I thought I had never before heard them sing so sweetly. Such a leisurely, golden
chant!--it consoled us for all we had undergone. It was the first thing in order,--the worms
were safe till after this morning chorus. I judged that the birds roosted but a few feet from
the ground. In fact, a bird in all cases roosts where it builds, and the wood thrush occupies,
as it were, the first story of the woods.

There is something singular about the distribution of the wood thrushes. At an earlier stage
of my observations I should have been much surprised at finding them in these woods. Indeed,
I had stated in print on two occasions that the wood thrush was not found in the higher lands
of the Catskills, but that the hermit thrush and the veery, or Wilson's thrush, were common.
It turns out that the statement is only half true. The wood thrush is found also, but is much
more rare and secluded in its habits than either of the others, being seen only during the
breeding season on remote mountains, and then only on their eastern and southern slopes. I
have never yet in this region found the bird spending the season in the near and familiar woods,
which is directly contrary to observations I have made in other parts of the state. So different
are the habits of birds in different localities.

As soon as it was fairly light we were up and ready to resume our march. A small bit of bread
and butter and a swallow or two of whiskey was all we had for breakfast that morning. Our supply
of each was very limited, and we were anxious to save a little of both, to relieve the diet
of trout to which we looked forward.

At an early hour we reached the rock where we had parted with the guide, and looked around
us into the dense, trackless woods with many misgivings. To strike out now on our own hook,
where the way was so blind and after the experience we had just had, was a step not to be carelessly
taken. The tops of these mountains are so broad, and a short distance in the woods seems so
far, that one is by no means master of the situation after reaching the summit. And then there
are so many spurs and offshoots and changes of direction, added to the impossibility of making
any generalization by the aid of the eye, that before one is aware of it he is very wide of
his mark.

I remembered now that a young farmer of my acquaintance had told me how he had made a long
day's march through the heart of this region, without path or guide of any kind, and had hit
his mark squarely. He had been barkpeeling in Callikoon,--a famous country for barkpeeling,--and,
having got enough of it, he desired to reach his home on Dry Brook without making the usual
circuitous journey between the two places. To do this necessitated a march of ten or twelve
miles across several ranges of mountains and through an unbroken forest,--a hazardous undertaking
in which no one would join him. Even the old hunters who were familiar with the ground dissuaded
him and predicted the failure of his enterprise. But having made up his mind, he possessed
himself thoroughly of the topography of the country from the aforesaid hunters, shouldered
his axe, and set out, holding a strait course through the woods, and turning aside for neither
swamps, streams, nor mountains. When he paused to rest he would mark some object ahead of him
with his eye, in order that on getting up again, he might not deviate from his course. His
directors had told him of a hunter's cabin about midway on his route, which if he struck he
might be sure he was right. About noon this cabin was reached, and at sunset he emerged at
the head of Dry Brook.

After looking in vain for the line of marked trees, we moved off to the left in a doubtful,
hesitating manner, keeping on the highest ground and blazing the trees as we went. We were
afraid to go downhill, lest we should descend to soon; our vantage-ground was high ground.
A thick fog coming on, we were more bewildered than ever. Still we pressed forward, climbing
up ledges and wading through ferns for about two hours, when we paused by a spring that issued
from beneath an immense wall of rock that belted the highest part of the mountain. There was
quite a broad plateau here, and the birch wood was very dense, and the trees of unusual size.

After resting and exchanging opinions, we all concluded that is was best not to continue our
search encumbered as we were; but we were not willing to abandon it altogether, and I proposed
to my companions to leave them beside the spring with our traps, while I made one thorough
and final effort to find the lake. If I succeeded and desired them to come forward, I was to
fire my gun three times; if I failed and wished to return, I would fire twice, they of course
responding.

So, filling my canteen from the spring, I set out again, taking the spring run for my guide.
Before I had followed it two hundred yards, it sank into the ground at my feet. I had half
a mind to be superstitious and to believe that we were under a spell, since our guides played
us such tricks. However, I determined to put the matter to a further test, and struck out boldly
to the left. This seemed to be the keyword,--to the left, to the left. The fog had now lifted,
so that I could form a better idea of the lay of the land. Twice I looked down the steep sides
of the mountain, sorely attempted to risk a plunge. Still I hesitated and kept along on the
brink. As I stood on a rock deliberating, I heard a crackling of the brush, like the tread
of some large game, on the plateau below me. Suspecting the truth of the case, I moved stealthily
down, and found a herd of young cattle leisurely browsing. We had several times crossed their
trail, and had seen that morning a level, grassy place on the top of the mountain, where they
had passed the night. Instead of being frightened, as I had expected, they seemed greatly delighted,
and gathered around me as if to inquire the tidings from the outer world,--perhaps the quotations
of the cattle market. They came up to me, and eagerly licked my hand, clothes, and gun. Salt
was what they were after, and they were ready to swallow anything that contained the smallest
percentage of it. They were mostly yearlings and as sleek as moles. They had a very gamy look.
We were afterwards told that, in the spring, the farmers round about turn into these woods
their young cattle, which do not come out again till fall. They are then in good condition,--not
fat, like grass-fed cattle, but trim and supple, like deer. Once a month the owner hunts them
up and salts them. They have their beats, and seldom wander beyond well-defined limits. It
was interesting to see them feed. They browsed on the low limbs and bushes, and on the various
plants, munching at everything without any apparent discrimination.

They attempted to follow me, but I escaped them by clambering down some steep rocks. I now
found myself gradually edging down the side of the mountain, keeping around it in a spiral
manner, and scanning the woods and the shape of the ground for some encouraging hint or sign.
Finally the woods became more open, and the descent less rapid. The trees were remarkably straight
and uniform in size. Black birches, the first I had ever seen, were very numerous. I felt encouraged.
Listening attentively, I caught, from a breeze just lifting the drooping leaves, a sound that
I willingly believed was made by a bullfrog. On this hint, I tore down through the woods at
my highest speed. Then I paused and listened again. This time there was no mistaking it; it
was the sound of frogs. Much elated, I rushed on. By and by I could hear them as I ran. Pthrung,
pthrung, croaked the old ones; pug, pug, shrilly joined in the smaller fry.

Then I caught, through the lower trees, a gleam of blue, which I first thought was distant
sky. A second look and I knew it to be water, and in a moment more I stepped from the woods
and stood upon the shore of the lake. I exulted silently. There it was at last, sparkling in
the morning sun, and as beautiful as a dream. It was so good to come upon such open space and
such bright hues, after wandering in the dim, dense woods! The eye is as delighted as an escaped
bird, and darts gleefully from point to point.

The lake was a long oval, scarcely more than a mile in circumference, with evenly wooded shores,
which rose gradually on all sides. After contemplating the serene for a moment, I stepped back
into the woods, and, loading my gun as heavily as I dared, discharged it three times. The reports
seemed to fill all the mountains with sound. The frogs quickly hushed, and I listened for the
response. But no response came. Then I tried again and again, but without evoking an answer.
One of my companions, however, who had climbed to the top of the high rocks in the rear of
the spring, thought he heard faintly one report. It seemed an immense distance below him, and
far around under the mountain. I knew I had come a long way, and hardly expected to be able
to communicate with my companions in the manner agreed upon. I therefore started back, choosing
my course without any reference to the circuitous route by which I had come, and loading heavily
and firing at intervals. I must have aroused many long-dormant echoes from a Rip Van Winkle
sleep. As my powder got low, I fired and halloed alternately, till I cam near splitting both
my throat and gun. Finally, after I had begun to have a very ugly feeling of alarm and disappointment,
and to cast about vaguely for some course to pursue in an emergency that seemed near at hand,--namely
the loss of my companions now I had found the lake,--a favoring breeze brought me the last
echo of a response. I rejoined with spirit, and hastened with all speed in the direction whence
the sound had come, but, after repeated trials, failed to elicit another answering sound. This
filled me with apprehension again. I feared that my friends had been mislead by the reverberations,
and I pictured them to myself, hastening in the opposite direction. Paying little attention
to my course, but paying dearly for my carelessness afterward, I rushed forward to undeceive
them. But they had not been deceived, and in a few moments an answering shout revealed them
near at hand. I heard their tramp, the bushed parted, and we three met again.

In answer to their eager inquiries, I assured them that I had seen the lake, that it was at
the foot of the mountain, and that we could not miss it if we kept straight down from where
we then were.

My clothes were soaked in perspiration, but I shouldered my knapsack with alacrity, and we
began the descent. I noticed that the woods were much thicker, and had quite a different look
from those I had passed through, but thought nothing of it, as I expected to strike the lake
near its head, whereas I had before come out at its foot. We had not gone far when we crossed
a line of marked trees, which my companions were disposed to follow. It intersected our course
nearly at right angles, and kept along and up the side of the mountain. My impression was that
it lead up from the lake, and that by keeping our course we should reach the lake sooner than
if we followed this line. About halfway down the mountain, we could see through the interstices
the opposite slope. I encouraged my comrades by telling them that the lake was between us and
that, and not more than half a mile distant. We soon reached the bottom, where we found a small
stream and quite an extensive alder swamp, evidently the ancient bed of a lake. I explained
to my half-vexed and half-incredulous companions that we were probably above the lake, and
that this stream must lead to it. "Follow it," they said; "we will wait here till we hear from
you."

So I went on, more than ever disposed to believe that we were under a spell, and that the lake
had slipped from my grasp after all. Seeing no favorable sign as I went forward, I laid down
my accoutrements, and climbed a decayed beech that leaned out over the swamp and promised a
good view from the top. As I stretched myself up to look around from the highest attainable
branch, there was suddenly a loud crack at the root. With a celerity that would at least have
done credit to a bear, I regained the ground, having caught but a momentary glimpse of the
country, but enough to convince me no lake was near. Leaving all incumbrances here but my gun,
I still pressed on, loath to be thus baffled. After floundering through another alder swamp
for nearly half a mile, I flattered myself that I was close to the lake. I caught sight of
a low spur of the mountain sweeping around like a half-extended arm, and I fondly imagined
that within its clasp was the object of my search. But I found only more alder swamp. After
this region was cleared the creek began to descend the mountain very rapidly. Its banks became
high and narrow, and it went whirling away with a sound that seemed to my ears like a burst
of ironical laughter. I turned back with a feeling of mingled disgust, shame and vexation.
In fact I was almost sick, and when I reached my companions, after an absence of nearly two
hours, hungry, fatigued, and disheartened, I would have sold my interest in Thomas's Lake at
a very low figure. For the first time, I heartily wished myself well out of the woods. Thomas
might keep his lake, and the enchanters guard his possession! I doubted if he had ever found
it the second time, or if any one else ever had.

My companions, who were quite fresh and who had not felt the strain of baffled purpose as I
had, assumed a more encouraging tone. After I had rested awhile, and partaken sparingly of
the bread and whisky, which in such an emergency is a great improvement on bread and water,
I agreed to their proposition that we should make another attempt. As if to reassure us, a
robin sounded his cheery call near by, and the winter wren, the first I had ever heard in these
woods, set his music-box going, which fairly ran over with fin, gushing, lyrical sounds. There
can be no doubt but this bird is one of our finest songsters. If it would only thrive and sing
well when caged, like the canary, how far it would surpass that bird! It has all the vivacity
and versatility of the canary, without any of its shrillness. Its song is indeed a little cascade
of melody.

We again retraced our steps, rolling the stone, as it were, back up the mountain, determined
to commit ourselves to the line of marked trees. These we finally reached, and, after exploring
the country to the right, saw that bearing to the left was still the order. The trail led up
over a gentle rise of ground, and in less than twenty minutes, we were in the woods I had passed
through when I found the lake. The error I had made was then plain: we had come off the mountain
a few paces too far to the right, and so had passed down on the wrong side of the ridge, into
what we afterwards learned was the valley of Alder Creek.

We now made good time, and before many minutes I again saw the mimic sky glance through the
trees. As we approached the lake, a solitary woodchuck, the first wild animal we had seen since
entering the woods, sat crouched upon the root of a tree a few feet from the water, apparently
completely nonplused by the unexpected appearance of danger on the land side. All retreat was
cut off, and he looked his fate in the face without flinching. I slaughtered him just as a
savage would have done, and from the same motive,--I wanted his carcass to eat.

The mid-afternoon sun was now shining upon the lake, and a low, steady breeze drove the little
waves rocking to the shore. A herd of cattle were browsing on the other side, and the bell
of the leader sounded across the water. In these solitudes its clang was wild and musical.

To try the trout was the first thing in order. On a rude raft of log which we found moored
at the shore, and which with two aboard shipped about a food of water, we floated out and wet
our first fly in Thomas's Lake; but the trout refused to jump, and to be frank, not more than
a dozen and a half were caught during our stay. Only a week previous, a party of three had
taken in a few hours all the fish they could carry out of the woods, and had nearly surfeited
their neighbors with trout. But from some cause, they now refused to rise, or to touch any
kind of bait: so we fell to catching the sunfish, which were small but very abundant. Their
nests were all along the shore. A space about the size of a breakfast-plate was cleared of
sediment and decayed vegetable matter, revealing the pebbly bottom, fresh and bright, with
one or two fish suspended over the centre of it, keeping watch and ward. If an intruder approached,
they would dart at him spitefully. These fish have the air of bantam cocks, and, with their
sharp, prickly fins and spines and scaly sides, must be ugly customers in a hand-to-hand encounter
with other finny warriors. To a hungry man they look about as unpromising as hemlock slivers,
so thorny and thin are they; yet there is sweet meat in them, as we found that day.

Much refreshed, I set out with the sun low in the west to explore the outlet of the lake and
try for trout there, while my companions made further trials in the lake itself. The outlet,
as is usual in bodies of water of this kind, was very gentle and private. The stream, six or
eight feet wide, flowed silently and evenly along for a distance of three or four rods, when
it suddenly, as if conscious of its freedom, took a leap down some rocks. Thence as far as
I followed it, its decent was very rapid through a continuous succession of brief falls like
so many steps down the mountain. Its appearance promised more trout than I found, though I
returned to camp with a very respectable string.

Toward sunset I went round to explore the inlet, and found that as usual the stream wound leisurely
through marshy ground. The water being much colder than in the outlet, the trout were more
plentiful. As I was picking my way over the miry ground and through the rank growths, a ruffed
grouse hopped up on a fallen branch a few paces before me, and jerking his tail, threatened
to take flight. But as I was at the moment gunless and remained stationary, he presently jumped
down and walked away.

A seeker of birds, and ever on the alert for some new acquaintance, my attention was arrested,
on first entering the swamp, by a bright, lively song, or warble, that issued from the branches
overhead, and that was entirely new to me, though there was something in the tone that told
me the bird was related to the wood-wagtail and to the water-wagtail or thrush. The strain
was emphatic and quite loud, like the canary's, but very brief. The bird kept itself well secreted
in the upper branches of the trees, and for a long time eluded my eye. I passed to and fro
several times, and it seemed to break out afresh as I approached a certain little bend in the
creek, and to cease after I had got beyond it; no doubt its nest was somewhere in the vicinity.
After some delay the bird was sighted and brought down. It proved to be the small, or northern,
water-thrush, (called also the New York water-thrush),--a new bird to me. In size it was noticeably
smaller than the large, or Louisiana, water-thrush, as described by Audubon, but in other respects
its general appearance was the same. It was a great treat to me, and again I felt myself in luck.

This bird was unknown to the older ornithologists, and is but poorly described by the new.
It builds a mossy nest on the ground, or under the edge of a decayed log. A correspondent writes
me that he has found it breeding on the mountains in Pennsylvania. The large-billed water-thrush
is much the superior songster, but the present species has a very bright and cheerful strain.
The specimen I saw, contrary to the habits of the family, kept in the treetops like a warbler,
and seemed to be engaged in catching insects.

The birds were unusually plentiful and noisy about the head of this lake; robins, blue jays,
and woodpeckers greeted me with their familiar notes. The blue jays found an owl or some wild
animal a short distance above me, and, as is their custom on such occasions, proclaimed it
at the top of their voices, and kept on till the darkness began to gather in the woods.

I also heard, as I had at two or three other points in the course of the day, the peculiar,
resonant hammering of some species of woodpecker upon the hard, dry limbs. It was unlike any
sound of the kind I had ever heard, and, repeated at intervals through the silent wood, was
a very marked and characteristic feature. Its peculiarity was the ordered succession of the
raps, which gave it the character of a premeditated performance. There were first three strokes
following each other rapidly, then two much louder ones with longer intervals between them.
I heard the drumming here, and the next day at sunset at Furlow Lake, the source of Dry Brook,
and in no instance was the order varied. There was a melody in it, such as a woodpecker knows
how to evoke from a smooth, dry branch. It suggested something quite as pleasing as the liveliest
bird-song, and was if anything more woodsy and wild. As the yellow-bellied woodpecker was the
most abundant species in these woods, I attributed it to him. It is the one sound that still
links itself with those scenes in my mind.

At sunset the grouse began to drum in all parts of the woods about the lake. I could hear five
at one time, thump, thump, thump, thump, thr-r-r-r-r-r-rr. It was a homely, welcome sound.
As I returned to camp at twilight, along the shore of the lake, the frogs also were in full
chorus. The older ones ripped out their responses to each other with terrific force and volume.
I know of no other animal capable of giving forth so much sound, in proportion to its size,
as a frog. Some of these seemed to bellow as loud as a two-year-old bull. They were of immense
size, and very abundant. No frog-eater had ever been there. Near the shore we felled a tree
which reached far out in the lake. Upon the trunk and branches, the frogs soon collected in
large numbers, and gamboled and splashed about the half submerged top, like a parcel of schoolboys,
making nearly as much noise.

After dark, as I was frying the fish, a panful of the largest trout was accidently capsized
in the fire. With rueful countenances we contemplated the irreparable loss our commissariat
had sustained by this mishap; but remembering there was virtue in ashes, we poked the half-consumed
fish from the bed of coals and ate them, and they were good.

We lodged that night on a brush-heap and slept soundly.  The green, yielding beech-twigs, covered
with a buffalo robe, were equal to a hair mattress. The heat and smoke from a large fire kindled
in the afternoon had banished every "no-see-em" from the locality, and in the morning the sun
was above the mountain before we awoke.

I immediately started again for the inlet, and went far up the stream toward its source. A
fair string of trout for breakfast was my reward. The cattle with the bell were at the head
of the valley, where they had passed the night. Most of them were two-year-old steers. They
came up to me and begged for salt, and scared the fish by their importunities.

We finished our bread that morning, and ate every fish we could catch, and about ten o'clock
prepared to leave the lake. The weather had been admirable, and the lake as a gem, and I would
gladly have spent a week in the neighborhood; but the question of supplies was a serious one,
and would brook no delay.

When we reached, on our return, the point where we had crossed the line of marked trees the
day before, the question arose whether we should still trust ourselves to this line, or follow
our own trail back to the spring and the battlement of rocks on the top of the mountain, and
thence to the rock where the guide had left us. We decided in favor of the former course. After
a march of three quarters of an hour the blazed trees ceased, and we concluded we were near
the point at which we had parted with our guide. So we built a fire, laid down our loads, and
cast about on all sides for some clew as to our exact locality. Nearly an hour was consumed
in this manner, and without any result. I came upon a brood of young grouse, which diverted
me for a moment. The old one blustered about at a furious rate, trying to draw all attention
to herself, while the young ones, which were unable to fly, hid themselves. She whined like
a dog in great distress, and dragged herself along apparently with the greatest difficulty.
As I pursued her, she ran very nimbly, and presently flew a few yards. Then, as I went on,
she flew farther and farther each time, till at last she got up, and went humming through the
woods as if she had no interest in them. I went back and caught one of the young, which had
simply squatted close to the ground. I then put in my coatsleeve, when it ran and nestled in
my armpit.

When we met at the sign of the smoke, opinions differed as to the most feasible course. There
was no doubt but that we could get out of the woods; but we wished to get out speedily, and
as near as possible to the point where we had entered. Half ashamed of our timidity and indecision,
we finally tramped away back to where we had crossed the line of blazed trees, followed our
old trail to the spring on the top of the range, and, after much searching and scouring to
the right and left, found ourselves at the very place we had left two hours before. Another
deliberation and a divided council. But something must be done. It was then mid-afternoon,
and the prospect of spending another night on the mountains, without food or drink, was not
pleasant. So we moved down the ridge. Here another line of marked trees was found, the course
of which formed an obtuse angle with the one we had followed. It kept on the top of the ridge
for perhaps a mile, when it disappeared, and we were as much adrift as ever. Then one of the
party swore an oath, and said he was going out of those woods, hit or miss, and, wheeling to
the right, instantly plunged over the brink of the mountain. The rest followed, but would fain
have paused and ciphered away at their own uncertainties, to see if a certainty could not be
arrived at as to where we would come out. But our bold leader was solving the problem in the
right way. Down and down and still down we went, as if we were to bring up in the bowels of
the earth. It was by far the steepest descent we had made, and we felt a grim satisfaction
in knowing we could not retrace our steps this time, be the issue what it might. As we paused
on the brink of a ledge of rocks, we chanced to see through the trees distant cleared land.
A house or barn also was dimly descried. This was encouraging; but we could not make out whether
it was on Beaver Kill or Mill Brook or Dry Brook, and did not long stop to consider where it
was. We at last brought up at the bottom of a deep gorge, through which flowed a rapid creek
that literally swarmed with trout. But we were in no mood to catch them, and pushed on along
the channel of the stream, sometimes leaping from rock to rock, and sometimes splashing heedlessly
through the water, and speculating the while as to where we should probably come out. On the
Beaver Kill, my companions thought; but from the position of the sun, I said, on the Mill Brook,
about six miles below our team; for I remembered having seen, in coming up this stream, a deep,
wild valley that led up into the mountains, like this one. Soon the banks of the stream became
lower, and we moved into the woods. Here we entered upon an obscure wood-road, which presently
conducted us into the midst of a vast hemlock forest. The land had a gentle slope, and we wondered
by the lumbermen and barkmen who prowl through these woods had left this fine tract untouched.
Beyond this the forest was mostly birch and maple.

We were now close to settlement, and began to hear human sounds.  One rod more, and we were
out of the woods. It took us a moment to comprehend the scene. Things looked very strange at
first; but quickly they began to change and to put on familiar features. Some magic scene-shifting
seemed to take place before my eyes, till, instead of the unknown settlement which I had at
first seemed to look upon, there stood the farmhouse at which we had stopped two days before,
and at the same moment we heard the stamping of our team in the barn. We sat down and laughed
heartily over our good luck. Our desperate venture had resulted better than we had dared to
hope, and had shamed our wisest plans. At the house our arrival had been anticipated about
this time, and dinner was being put upon the table.

It was then five o'clock, so that we had been in the woods just forty-eight hours; but if time
is only phenomenal, as the philosophers say, and life only in feeling, as the poets aver, we
were some months, if not years, older at that moment than we had been two days before. Yet
younger, too,--though this be a paradox,--for the birches had infused into us some of their
own suppleness and strength. 1869.

VII

THE BLUEBIRD

When Nature made the bluebird she wished to propitiate both the sky and the earth, so she gave
him the color of the one on his back and the hue of the other on his breast, and ordained that
his appearance in the spring should denote that the strife and war between these two elements
was at an end. He is the peace-harbinger; in him the celestial and terrestrial strike hands
and are fast friends. He means the furrow and he means the warmth; he means all the soft, wooing
influences of the spring on one hand, and the retreating footsteps of winter on the other.

It is sure to be a bright March morning when you first hear his note; and it is as if the milder
influences up above had found a voice and let a word fall upon your ear, so tender is it and
so prophetic, a hope tinged with a regret.

"Bermuda! Bermuda! Bermuda!" he seems to say, as if both invoking and lamenting, and, behold!
Bermuda follows close, though the little pilgrim may only be repeating the tradition of his
race, himself having come only from Florida, the Carolinas, or even from Virginia, where he
has found his Bermuda on some broad sunny hillside thickly studded with cedars and persimmon-trees.

In New York and in New England the sap starts up in the sugar maple the very day the bluebird
arrives, and sugar-making begins forthwith. The bird is generally a mere disembodied voice;
a rumor in the air for tow of three days before it takes visible shape before you. The males
are the pioneers, and come several days in advance of the females. By the time both are here
and the pairs have begun to prospect for a place to nest, sugar-making is over, the last vestige
of snow has disappeared, and the plow is brightening its mould-board in the new furrow.

The bluebird enjoys the preëminence of being the first bit of color that cheers our northern
landscape. The other birds that arrive about the same time--the sparrow, the robin, the phoebe-bird--are
clad in neutral tints, gray, brown, or russet; but the bluebird brings one of the primary hues
and the divinest of them all.

This bird also has the distinction of answering very nearly to the robin redbreast of English
memory, and was by the early settlers of New England christened the blue robin.

It is a size or two larger, and the ruddy hue of its breast does not verge so nearly on an
orange, but the manners and habits of the two birds are very much alike. Our bird has the softer
voice, but the English redbreast is much the more skilled musician. He has indeed a fine, animated
warble, heard nearly the year through about English gardens and along the old hedge-rows, that
is quite beyond the compass of our bird's instrument. On the other hand, our bird is associated
with the spring as the British species cannot be, being a winter resident also, while the brighter
sun and sky of the New World have given him a coat that far surpasses that of his transatlantic
cousin.

It is worthy of remark that among British birds there is no blue bird. The cerulean tint seems
much rarer among the feathered tribes there than here. On this continent there are at least
three species of the common bluebird, while in all our woods there is the blue jay and the
indigo-bird,--the latter so intensely blue as to fully justify its name. There is also the
blue grosbeak, not much behind the indigo-bird in intensity of color; and among our warblers
the blue tint is very common.

It is interesting to know that the bluebird is not confined to any one section of the country;
and that when one goes West he will still have this favorite with him, though a little changed
in voice and color, just enough to give variety without marring the identity.

The Western bluebird is considered a distinct species, and is perhaps a little more brilliant
and showy than its Eastern brother; and Nuttall thinks its song is more varied, sweet, and
tender. Its color approaches to ultramarine, while it has a sash of chestnut-red across its
shoulders,--all the effects, I suspect, of that wonderful air and sky of California, and of
those great Western plains; or, if one goes a little higher up into the mountainous regions
of the West, he finds the Arctic bluebird, the ruddy brown on the breast changed to a greenish
blue, and the wings longer and more pointed; in other respects not differing much from our species.

The bluebird usually builds its nest in a hole in a stump or stub, or in an old cavity excavated
by a woodpecker, when such can be had; but its first impulse seems to be to start in the world
in much more style, and the happy pair make a great show of house-hunting about the farm buildings,
now half persuaded to appropriate a dove-cote, then discussing in a lively manner a last year's
swallow nest, or proclaiming with much flourish and flutter that they have taken the wren's
house, or the tenement of the purple martin; till finally nature becomes too urgent, when all
this pretty make-believe ceases, and most of them settle back upon the old family stumps and
knotholes in remote fields, and go to work in earnest.

In such situations the female is easily captured by approaching very stealthily and covering
the entrance to the nest. The bird seldom makes any effort to escape, seeing how hopeless the
case is, and keeps her place on the nest till she feels your hand closing around her. I have
looked down into the cavity and seen the poor thing palpitating with fear and looking up with
distended eyes, but never moving till I had withdrawn a few paces; then she rushes out with
a cry that brings the male on the scene in a hurry. He warbles and lifts his wings beseechingly,
but shows no anger or disposition to scold and complain like most birds. Indeed, this bird
seems incapable of uttering a harsh note, or of doing a spiteful, ill-tempered thing.

The ground-builders all have some art or device to decoy one away from the nest, affecting
lameness, a crippled wing, or a broken back, promising an easy capture if pursued. The tree-builders
depend upon concealing the nest or placing it beyond reach. But the bluebird has no art either
way, and its nest is easily found.

About the only enemies of the sitting bird or the nest is in danger of are snakes and squirrels.
I knew of a farm-boy who was in the habit of putting his hand down into a bluebird's nest and
taking out the old bird whenever he came that way. One day he put his hand in, and, feeling
something peculiar, withdrew it hastily, when it was instantly followed by the head of an enormous
black snake. The boy took to his heels and the snake gave chase, pressing him close till a
plowman near by came to the rescue with his ox-whip.

There never was a happier or more devoted husband than the male bluebird is. But among nearly
all our familiar birds the serious cares of life seem to devolve almost entirely upon the female.
The male is hilarious and demonstrative, the female serious and anxious about her charge. The
male is the attendant of the female, following her wherever she goes. He never leads, never
directs, but only seconds and applauds. If his life is all poetry and romance, hers is all
business and prose. She has no pleasure but her duty, and no duty but to look after her nest
and brood. She shows no affection for the male, no pleasure in his society; she only tolerates
him as a necessary evil, and, if he is killed, goes in quest of another in the most business-like
manner, as you would go for the plumber or the glazier. In most cases the male is the ornamental
partner in the firm, and contributes little of the working capital. There seems to be more
equality of the sexes among the woodpeckers, wrens, and swallows; while the contrast is greatest,
perhaps, in the bobolink family, where the courting is done in the Arab fashion, the female
fleeing with all her speed and the male pursuing with equal precipitation; and were it not
for the broods of young birds that appear, it would be hard to believe that the intercourse
ever ripened into anything more intimate.

With the bluebirds the male is useful as well as ornamental.  He is the gay champion and escort
of the female at all times, and while she is sitting he feeds her regularly. It is very pretty
to watch them building their nest. The male is very active in hunting out a place and exploring
the boxes and cavities, but seems to have no choice in the matter and is anxious only to please
and to encourage his mate, who has the practical turn and knows what will do and what will
not. After she has suited herself he applauds her immensely, and away the two go in quest of
material for the nest, the male acting as guard and flying above and in advance of the female.
She brings all the material and does all the work of building, he looking on and encouraging
her with gesture and song. He acts also as inspector of her work, but I fear is a very partial
one. She enters the nest with her bit of dry grass or straw, and, having adjusted it to her
notion, withdraws and waits near by while he goes in and looks it over. On coming out he exclaims
very plainly, "Excellent! Excellent!" and away the two go again for more material.

The bluebirds, when they build about the farm buildings, sometimes come into contact with the
swallows. The past season I knew a pair to take forcible possession of the domicile of a pair
of the latter,--the cliff species that now stick their nests under the eaves of the barn. The
bluebirds had been broken up in a little bird-house near by, by the rats or perhaps a weasel,
and being no doubt in a bad humor, and the season being well advanced, they made forcible entrance
into the adobe tenement of their neighbors, and held possession of it for some days, but I
believe finally withdrew, rather than live amid such a squeaky, noisy colony. I have heard
that these swallows, when ejected from their homes in that way by the phoebe-bird, have been
known to fall to and mason up the entrance to the nest while their enemy was inside of it,
thus having a revenge as complete and cruel as anything in human annals.

The bluebirds and the house wrens more frequently come into collision. A few years ago I put
up a little bird-house in the back end of my garden for the accommodation of the wrens, and
every season a pair of bluebirds looked into the tenement and lingered about several days,
leading me to hope that they would conclude to occupy it. But they finally went away, and later
in the season the wrens appeared, and, after a little coquetting, were regularly installed
in their old quarters, and were as happy as only wrens can be.

One of our younger poets, Myron Benton, saw a little bird

        "Ruffled with whirlwind of his ecstasies,"

which must have been the wren, as I know of no other bird that so throbs and palpitates with
music as this little vagabond. And the pair I speak of seemed exceptionally happy, and the
male had a small tornado of song in his crop that kept him "ruffled" every moment in the day.
But before their honeymoon was over the bluebirds returned. I knew something was wrong before
I was up in the morning. Instead of that voluble and gushing song outside the window, I heard
the wrens scolding and crying at a fearful rate, and on going out saw the bluebirds in possession
of the box. The poor wrens were in despair; they wrung their hands and tore their hair, after
the wren fashion, but chiefly did they rattle out their disgust and wrath at the intruders.
I have no doubt that, if it could have been interpreted, it would have proven the rankest and
most voluble Billingsgate ever uttered. For the wren is saucy, and he has a tongue in his head
that can outwag any other tongue known to me.

The bluebirds said nothing, but the male kept an eye on Mr. Wren; and, when he came to near,
gave chase, driving him to cover under the fence, or under a rubbish heap or other object,
where the wren would scold and rattle away, while his pursuer sat on the fence or the pea-brush
waiting for him to reappear.

Days passed, and the usurpers prospered and the outcasts were wretched; but the latter lingered
about, watching and abusing their enemies, and hoping, no doubt, that things would take a turn,
as they presently did. The outraged wrens were fully avenged. The mother bluebird had laid
her full complement of eggs and was beginning to set, when one day, as her mate was perched
above her on the barn, along came a boy with one of those wicked elastic slings and cut him
down with a pebble. There he lay like a bit of sky fallen upon the grass. The widowed bird
seemed to understand what had happened, and without much ado disappeared next day in quest
of another mate. How she contrived to make her wants known, without trumpeting them about,
I am unable to say. But I presume that birds have a way of advertising that answers the purpose
well. Maybe she trusted to luck to fall in with some stray bachelor or bereaved male who would
undertake to console a widow or one day's standing. I will say, in passing, that there are
no bachelors from choice among the birds; they are all rejected suitors, while old maids are
entirely unknown. There is a Jack to every Jill; and some to boot.

The males, being more exposed by their song and plumage, and by being the pioneers in migrating,
seem to be slightly in excess lest the supply fall short, and hence it sometimes happens that
a few are bachelors perforce; there are not females enough to go around, but before the season
is over there are sure to be some vacancies in the marital ranks, which they are called on to fill.

In the mean time the wrens were beside themselves with delight; they fairly screamed with joy.
If the male was before "ruffled with whirlwind of his ecstasies," he was now in danger of being
rent asunder. He inflated his throat and caroled as wren never caroled before. And the female,
too, how she cackled and darted about! How busy they both were! Rushing into the nest, they
hustled those eggs out in less than a minute, wren time. They carried in new material, and
by the third day were fairly installed again in their old headquarters; but on the third day,
so rapidly are these little dramas played, the female bluebird reappeared with another mate.
Ah! how the wren stock went down then! What dismay and despair filled again those little breasts!
It was pitiful. They did not scold as before, but after a day or two withdrew from the garden,
dumb with grief, and gave up the struggle.

The bluebird, finding her eggs gone and her nest changed, seemed suddenly seized with alarm
and shunned the box; or else, finding she had less need for another husband than she thought,
repented her rashness and wanted to dissolve the compact. But the happy bridegroom would not
take the hint, and exerted all his eloquence to comfort and reassure her. He was fresh and
fond, and until this bereaved female found him I am sure his suit had not prospered that season.
He thought the box just the thing, and that there was no need of alarm, and spent days in trying
to persuade the female back. Seeing he could not be a stepfather to a family, he was quite
willing to assume a nearer relation. He hovered about the box, he went in and out, he called,
he warbled, he entreated; the female would respond occasionally and come and alight near, and
even peep into the nest, but would not enter it, and quickly flew away again. Her mate would
reluctantly follow, but he was soon back, uttering the most confident and cheering calls. If
she did not come he would perch above the nest and sound his loudest notes over and over again,
looking in the direction of his mate and beckoning with every motion. But she responded less
and less frequently. Some days I would see him only, but finally he gave it up; the pair disappeared,
and the box remained deserted the rest of the summer.

1867

VIII

THE INVITATION

Years ago, when quite a youth, I was rambling in the woods one Sunday, with my brothers, gathering
black birch, wintergreens, etc., when, as we reclined upon the ground, gazing vaguely up into
the trees, I caught sight of a bird, that paused a moment on a branch above me, the like of
which I had never before seen or heard of. It was probably the blue yellow-backed warbler,
as I have since found this to be a common bird in those woods; but to my young fancy it seemed
like some fairy bird, so unexpected. I saw it a moment as the flickering leaves parted, noted
the white spot on its wing, and it was gone. How the thought of it clung to me afterward! It
was a revelation. It was the first intimation I had had that the woods we knew so well held
birds that we knew not at all. Were our eyes and ears so dull, then? There was the robin, the
blue jay, the bluebird, the yellow-bird, the cherry-bird, the catbird, the chipping-bird, the
woodpecker, the high-hole, an occasional redbird, and a few others, in the woods or along their
borders, but who ever dreamed that there were still others that not even the hunters saw, and
whose names no one had ever heard?

When, one summer day, later in life, I took my gun and went to the woods again, in a different
though perhaps a less simple spirit I found my youthful vision more than realized. There were,
indeed, other birds, plenty of them, singing, nesting, breeding, among the familiar trees,
which I had before passed by unheard and unseen.

It is a surprise that awaits every student of ornithology, and the thrill of delight that accompanies
it, and the feeling of fresh, eager inquiry that follows, can hardly be awakened by any other
pursuit. Take the first step in ornithology, procure one new specimen, and you are ticketed
for the whole voyage. There is a fascination about it quite overpowering. It fits so well with
other things,--with fishing, hunting, farming, walking, camping-out,--with all that takes one
to the fields and woods. One may go a-blackberrying and make some rare discovery; or, while
driving his cow to pasture, hear a new song, or make a new observation. Secrets lurk on all
sides. There is news in every bush. Expectation is ever on tiptoe. What no man ever saw before
may the next moment be revealed to you. What a new interest the woods have! How you long to
explore every nook and corner of them! You would even find consolation in being lost in them.
You could then hear the night birds and the owls, and, in your wanderings, might stumble upon
some unknown specimen.

In all excursions to the woods or to the shore, the student of ornithology has an advantage
over his companions. He has one more resource, one more avenue of delight. He, indeed, kills
two birds with one stone and sometimes three. If others wander, he can never go out of his
way. His game is everywhere. The cawing of a crow makes him feel at home, while a new note
or a new song drowns all care. Audubon, on the desolate coast of Labrador, is happier than
any king ever was; and on shipboard is nearly cured of his seasickness when a new gull appears
in sight.

One must taste it to understand or appreciate its fascination.  The looker-on sees nothing
to inspire such enthusiasm. Only a few feathers and a half-musical note or two; why all this
ado? "Who would give a hundred and twenty dollars to know about the birds?" said an Eastern
governor, half contemptuously, to Wilson, as the latter solicited a subscription to his great
work. Sure enough. Bought knowledge is dear at any price. The most precious things have no
commercial value. It is not, your Excellency, mere technical knowledge of the birds that you
are asked to purchase, but a new interest in the fields and the woods, a new moral and intellectual
tonic, a new key to the treasure-house of Nature. Think of the many other things your Excellency
would get,--the air, the sunshine, the healing fragrance and coolness, and the many respites
from the knavery and turmoil of political life.

Yesterday was an October day of rare brightness and warmth.  I spent the most of it in a wild,
wooded gorge of Rock Creek. A persimmon-tree which stood upon the bank had dropped some of
its fruit in the water. As I stood there, half-leg deep, picking them up, a wood duck came
flying down the creek and passed over my head. Presently it returned, flying up; then it came
back again, and, sweeping low around a bend, prepared to alight in a still, dark reach in the
creek which was hidden from my view. As I passed that way about half an hour afterward, the
duck started up, uttering its wild alarm note. In the stillness I could hear the whistle of
its wings and the splash of the water when it took flight. Near by I saw where a raccoon had
come down to the water for fresh clams, leaving his long, sharp track in the mud and sand.
Before I had passed this hidden stretch of water, a pair of those mysterious thrushes, the
gray-cheeked, flew up from the ground and perched on a low branch.

Who can tell how much this duck, this footprint in the sand, and these strange thrushes from
the far north, enhanced the interest and charm of the autumn woods?

Ornithology cannot be satisfactorily learned from the books.  The satisfaction is in learning
it from nature. One must have an original experience with the birds. The books are only the
guide, the invitation. Though there remain not another new species to describe, any young person
with health and enthusiasm has open to him or her the whole field anew, and is eligible to
experience all the thrill and delight of the original discoverers.

But let me say, in the same breath, that the books can by no manner of means be dispensed with.
A copy of Wilson or Audubon, for reference and to compare notes with, is invaluable. In lieu
of these, access to some large museum or collection would be a great help. In the beginning,
one finds it very difficult to identify a bird from any verbal description. Reference to a
colored plate, or to a stuffed specimen, at once settles the matter. This is the chief value
of books; they are the charts to sail by; the route is mapped out, and much time and labor
are thereby saved. First find your bird; observe its ways, its song, its calls, its flight,
its haunts; then shoot it (not ogle it with a glass), and compare it with Audubon. [footnote:
My later experiences have led me to prefer a small field-glass to a gun.] In this way the feathered
kingdom may soon be conquered.

The ornithologists divide and subdivide the birds into a great many orders, families, genera,
species etc., which, at first sight, are apt to confuse and discourage the reader. But any
interested person can acquaint himself with most of our song-birds by keeping in mind a few
general divisions, and observing the characteristics of each. By far the greater number of
our land-birds are either warblers, vireos, flycatchers, thrushes, or finches.

The warblers are, perhaps, the most puzzling. These are the true Sylvia, the real wood-birds.
They are small, very active, but feeble songsters, and, to be seen, must be sought for. In
passing through the woods, most persons have a vague consciousness of slight chirping, semi-musical
sounds in the trees overhead. In most cases these sounds proceed from the warblers. Throughout
the Middle and Eastern States, half a dozen species or so may be found in almost every locality,
as the redstart, the Maryland yellow-throat, the yellow warbler (not the common goldfinch,
with black cap, and black wings and tail), the hooded warbler, the black and white creeping
warbler; or others, according to the locality and the character of the woods. In pine or hemlock
woods, one species may predominate; in maple or oak woods, or in mountainous districts, another.
The subdivisions of ground warblers, the most common members of which are the Maryland yellow-throat,
the Kentucky warbler, and the mourning ground warbler, are usually found in low, wet, bushy,
or half-open woods, often on and always near the ground. The summer yellowbird, or yellow warbler,
is not now a wood-bird at all, being found in orchards and parks, and along streams and in
the trees of villages and cities.

As we go north the number of warblers increases, till, in the northern part of New England,
and in the Canadas, as many as ten or twelve varieties may be found breeding in June. Audubon
found the black-poll warbler breeding in Labrador, and congratulates himself on being the first
white man who had ever seen its nest. When these warblers pass north in May, they seem to go
singly or in pairs, and their black caps and striped coats show conspicuously. When they return
in September they are in troops or loose flocks, are of a uniform dull drab or brindlish color,
and are very fat. They scour the treetops for a few days, almost eluding the eye by their quick
movements, and are gone.

According to my own observation, the number of species of warblers which one living in the
middle districts sees, on their return in the fall, is very small compared with the number
he may observe migrating north in the spring.

The yellow-rumped warblers are the most noticeable of all in Autumn. They come about the streets
and garden, and seem especially drawn to dry, leafless trees. They dart spitefully about, uttering
a sharp chirp. In Washington I have seen them in the outskirts all winter.

Audubon figures and describes over forty different warblers.  More recent writers have divided
and subdivided the group very much, giving new names to new classifications. But this part
is of interest and value only to the professional ornithologist.

The finest songster among the Sylvia, according to my notions, is the black-throated greenback.
Its song is sweet and clear, but brief.

The rarest of the species are Swainson's warbler, said to be disappearing; the cerulean warbler,
said to be abundant about Niagara; and the mourning ground warbler, which I have found breeding
about the head-waters of the Delaware, in New York.

The vireos, or greenlets, are a sort of connecting link between the warblers and the true flycatchers,
and partake of the characteristics of both.

The red-eyed vireo, whose sweet soliloquy is one of the most constant and cheerful sounds in
our woods and groves, is perhaps the most noticeable and abundant species. The vireos are a
little larger than the warblers, and are far less brilliant and variegated in color.

There are five species found in most of our woods, namely the red-eyed vireo, the white-eyed
vireo, the warbling vireo, the yellow-throated vireo, and the solitary vireo,--the red-eyed
and warbling being most abundant, and the white-eyed being the most lively and animated songster.
I meet the latter bird only in the thick, bush growths of low, swampy localities, where, eluding
the observer, it pours forth its song with a sharpness and a rapidity of articulation that
are truly astonishing. This strain is very marked, and, though inlaid with the notes of several
other birds, is entirely unique. The iris of this bird is white, as that of the red-eyed is
red, though in neither case can this mark be distinguished at more than two or three yards.
In most cases the iris of birds is a dark hazel, which passes for black.

The basket-like nest, pendent to the low branches in the woods, which the falling leaves of
autumn reveal to all passers, is, in most cases, the nest of the red-eyed, though the solitary
constructs a similar tenement, but in much more remote and secluded localities.

Most birds exhibit great alarm and distress, usually with a strong dash of anger, when you
approach their nests; but the demeanor of the red-eyed, on such an occasion, is an exception
to this rule. The parent birds move about softly amid the branches above, eying the intruder
with a curious, innocent look, uttering, now and then, a subdued note or plaint, solicitous
and watchful, but making no demonstration of anger or distress.

The birds, no more than the animals, like to be caught napping; but I remember, one autumn
day, coming upon a red-eyed vireo that was clearly oblivious to all that was passing around
it. It was a young bird, though full grown, and it was taking its siesta on a low branch in
a remote heathery field. Its head was snugly stowed away under its wing, and it would have
fallen easy prey to the first hawk that came along. I approached noiselessly, and when within
a few feet of it paused to note its breathings, so much more rapid and full than our own. A
bird has greater lung capacity than any other living thing, hence more animal heat, and life
at a higher pressure. When I reached out my hand and carefully closed it around the winged
sleeper, its sudden terror and consternation almost paralyzed it. Then it struggled and cried
piteously, and when released hastened and hid itself in some near bushes. I never expected
to surprise it thus a second time.

The flycatchers are a larger group than the vireos, with stronger-marked characteristics. They
are not properly songsters, but are classed by some writers as screechers. Their pugnacious
dispositions are well known, and they not only fight among themselves, but are incessantly
quarreling with their neighbors. The kingbird, or tyrant flycatcher might serve as the type
of the order.

The common or wood pewee excites the most pleasant emotions, both on account of its plaintive
note and its exquisite mossy nest.

The phoebe-bird is the pioneer of the flycatchers, and comes in April, sometimes in March.
Its comes familiarly about the house and outbuildings, and usually builds beneath hay-sheds
or under bridges.

The flycatchers always take their insect prey on the wing, by a sudden darting or swooping
movement; often a very audible snap of the beak may be heard.

These birds are the least elegant, both in form and color, of any of our feathered neighbors.
They have short legs, a short neck, large heads, and broad, flat beaks, with bristles at the
base. They often fly with a peculiar quivering movement of the wings, and when at rest some
of the species oscillate their tails at short intervals.

There are found in the United States nineteen species. In the Middle and Eastern districts,
one may observe in summer, without any special search, about five of them, namely, the kingbird,
the phoebe-bird, the wood pewee, the great crested flycatcher (distinguished from all others
by the bright ferruginous color of its tail), and the small green-crested flycatcher.

The thrushes are the birds of real melody, and will afford one more delight perhaps than any
other class. The robin is the most familiar example. Their manners, flight, and form are the
same in each species. See the robin hop along upon the ground, strike an attitude, scratch
for a worm, fix his eye upon something before him or upon the beholder, flip his wings suspiciously,
fly straight to his perch, or sit at sundown on some high branch caroling his sweet and honest
strain, and you have seen what is characteristic of all the thrushes. Their carriage is preëminently
marked by grace, and their songs by melody.

Beside the robin, which is in no sense a woodbird, we have in New York the wood thrush, the
hermit thrush, the veery, or Wilson's thrush, the olive-backed thrush, and, transiently, one
or two other species not so clearly defined.

The wood thrush and the hermit stand at the head as songsters, no two persons, perhaps, agreeing
as to which is the superior.

Under the general head of finches, Audubon describes over sixty different birds, ranging from
the sparrows to the grosbeaks, and including the buntings, the linnets, the snowbirds, the
crossbills, and the redbirds.

We have nearly or quite a dozen varieties of the sparrow in the Atlantic States, but perhaps
no more than half that number would be discriminated by the unprofessional observer. The song
sparrow, which every child knows, comes first; at least, his voice is first heard. And can
there be anything more fresh and pleasing than this first simple strain heard from the garden
fence or a near hedge, on some bright, still March morning?

The field or vesper sparrow, called also grass finch           8 and bay-winged sparrow, a
bird slightly larger than the song sparrow and of a lighter gray color, is abundant in all
our upland fields and pastures, and is a very sweet songster. It builds upon the ground, without
the slightest cover or protection, and also roosts there. Walking through the fields at dusk,
I frequently start them up almost beneath my feet. When disturbed by day, they fly with a quick,
sharp movement, showing two white quills in the tail. The traveler along the country roads
disturbs them earthing their wings in the soft dry earth, or sees them skulking and flitting
along the fences in front of him. They run in the furrow in advance of the team, or perch upon
the stones a few rods off. They sing much after sundown, hence the aptness of the name vesper
sparrow, which a recent writer, Wilson Flagg, has bestowed upon them.

In the meadows and low, wet lands the savanna sparrow is met with, and may be known by its
fine, insect-like song; in the swamp, the swamp sparrow.

The fox sparrow, the largest and handsomest species of this family, comes to us in the fall,
from the North, where it breeds. Likewise the tree or Canada sparrow, and the white-crowned
and white-throated sparrow.

The social sparrow, alias "hairbird," alias "red-headed chipping-bird," is the smallest of
the sparrows, and I believe, the only one that builds in trees.

The finches, as a class, all have short conical bills, with tails more or less forked. The
purple finch heads the list in varied musical abilities.

Besides the groups of our more familiar birds which I have thus hastily outlined, there are
numerous other groups, more limited in specimens but comprising some of our best-known songsters.
The bobolink, for instance, has properly no congener. The famous mockingbird of the Southern
States belongs to a genus which has but two other representatives in the Atlantic States, namely,
the catbird and the long-tailed or ferruginous thrush.

The wrens are a large and interesting family, and as songsters are noted for vivacity and volubility.
The more common species are the house wren, the marsh wren, the great Carolina wren, and the
winter wren, the latter perhaps deriving its name from the fact that it breed in the North.
It is an exquisite songster, and pours forth its notes so rapidly, and with such sylvan sweetness
and cadence, that it seems to go off like a musical alarm.

Wilson called the kinglets wrens, but they have little to justify the name, except that the
ruby-crown's song is of the same gushing, lyrical character as that referred to above. Dr.
Brewer was entranced with the song of one of these tiny minstrels in the woods of New Brunswick,
and thought he had found the author of the strain in the black-poll warbler. He seems loath
to believe that a bird so small as either of the kinglets could possess such vocal powers.
It may indeed have been the winter wren, but from my own observation I believe the ruby-crowned
kinglet quite capable of such a performance.

But I must leave this part of the subject and hasten on.  As to works on ornithology, Audubon's,
though its expense puts it beyond the reach of the mass of readers, is by far the most full
and accurate. His drawings surpass all others in accuracy and spirit, while his enthusiasm
and devotion to the work he had undertaken have but few parallels in the history of science.
His chapter on the wild goose is as good as a poem. One readily overlooks his style, which
is often verbose and affected, in consideration of enthusiasm so genuine and purpose so single.

There has never been a keener eye than Audubon's, though there have been more discriminative
ears. Nuttall, for instance is far more happy in his descriptions of the songs and notes of
birds, and more to be relied upon. Audubon thinks the song of the Louisiana water-thrush equal
to that of the European nightingale, and, as he had heard both birds, one would think was prepared
to judge. Yet he has, no doubt, overrated the one and underrated the other. The song of the
water-thrush is very brief, compared with the philomel's, and its quality is brightness and
vivacity, while that of the latter bird, if the books are to be credited, is melody and harmony.
Again, he says the song of the blue grosbeak resembles the bobolink's, which it does about
as much as the two birds resemble each other in color; one is black and white and the other
is blue. The song of the wood-wagtail, he says, consists of a "short succession of simple notes
beginning with emphasis and gradually falling." The truth is, they run up the scale instead
of down, beginning low and ending in a shriek.

Yet considering the extent of Audubon's work, the wonder is the errors are so few. I can at
this moment recall but one observation of his, the contrary of which I have proved to be true.
In his account of the bobolink he makes a point of the fact that, in returning south in the
fall, they do not travel by night as they do when moving north in the spring. In Washington
I have heard their calls as they flew over at night for four successive autumns. As he devoted
the whole of a long life to the subject, and figured and described over four hundred species,
one feels a real triumph on finding in our common woods a bird not described in his work. I
have seen but two. Walking in the woods one day in early fall, in the vicinity of West Point,
I started up a thrush that was sitting on the ground. It alighted on a branch a few yards off,
and looked new to me. I thought I had never before seen so long-legged a thrush. I shot it,
and saw that it was a new acquaintance. Its peculiarities were its broad, square tail; the
length of its legs, which were three and three quarters inches from the end of the middle toe
to the hip-joint; and the deep uniform olive-brown of the upper parts, and the gray of the
lower. It proved to be the gray-cheeked thrush, named and first described by Professor Baird.
But little seems to be known concerning it, except that it breeds in the far north, even on
the shores of the Arctic Ocean. I would go a good way to hear its song.

The present season I met with a pair of them near Washington, as mentioned above. In size this
bird approaches the wood thrush, being larger than either the hermit or the veery; unlike all
other species, no part of its plumage has a tawny or yellowish tinge. The other specimen was
the northern or small water-thrush, cousin-german to the oven-bird and the half-brother to
the Louisiana water-thrush or wagtail. I found it at the head of the Delaware, where it evidently
had a nest. It usually breeds much further north. It has a strong, clear warble, which at once
suggests the song of its congener. I have not been able to find any account of this particular
species in the books, though it seems to be well known.

More recent writers and explorers have added to Audubon's list over three hundred new species,
the greater number of which belong to the northern and western parts of the continent. Audubon's
observations were confined mainly to the Atlantic and Gulf States and the adjacent islands;
hence the Western or Pacific birds were but little known to him, and are only briefly mentioned
in his works.

It is, by the way, a little remarkable how many of the Western birds seem merely duplicates
of the Eastern. Thus, the varied thrush of the West is our robin, a little differently marked;
and the red-shafted woodpecker is our golden-wing, or high-hole, colored red instead of yellow.
There is also a Western chickadee, a Western chewink, a Western blue jay, a Western bluebird,
a Western song sparrow, Western grouse, quail, hen-hawk, etc.

One of the most remarkable birds of the West seems to be a species of skylark, met with on
the plains of Dakota, which mounts to the height of three or four hundred feet, and showers
down its ecstatic notes. It is evidently akin to several of our Eastern species.

A correspondent, writing to me from the country one September, said: "I have observed recently
a new species of bird here. They alight upon the buildings and fences as well as upon the ground.
They are walkers." In a few days he obtained one and sent me the skin. It proved to be what
I had anticipated, namely the American pipit, or titlark, a slender brown bird, about the size
of the sparrow, which passes through the States in the fall and spring, to and from its breeding
haunts in the far north. They generally appear by twos and threes, or in small loose flocks,
searching for food on banks and plowed ground. As they fly up, they show two or three white
quills in the tail, like the vesper sparrow. Flying over, they utter a single chirp or cry
every few rods. They breed in the bleak, moss-covered rocks of Labrador. It is reported that
their eggs have also been found in Vermont, and I feel quite certain that I saw this bird in
the Adirondack Mountains in the month of August. The male launches into the air, and gives
forth a brief but melodious song, after the manner of all larks. They are walkers. This is
a characteristic of but few of our land-birds. By far the greater number are hoppers. Note
the track of the common snowbird; the feet are not placed one in front of the other, as in
the track of the crow or partridge, but side and side. The sparrows, thrushes, warblers, woodpeckers,
buntings, etc., are all hoppers. On the other hand, all aquatic or semi-aquatic birds are walkers.
The plovers and sandpipers and snips run rapidly. Among the land-birds, the grouse, pigeons,
quails, larks and various blackbirds walk. The swallows walk, also, whenever they use their
feet at all, but very awkwardly. The larks walk with ease and grace. Note the meadowlarks strutting
about all day in the meadows.

Besides being walkers, the larks, or birds allied to the larks, all sing upon the wing, usually
poised or circling in the air, with a hovering, tremulous flight. The meadowlark occasionally
does this in the early part of the season. At such times its long-drawn note or whistle becomes
a rich, amorous warble.

The bobolink, also, has both characteristics, and, notwithstanding the difference of form and
build, etc., is very suggestive of the English skylark, as it figures in the books, and is,
no doubt, fully its equal as a songster.

Of our small wood-birds we have three varieties east of the Mississippi, closely related to
each other, which I have already spoken of, and which walk, and sing, more or less, on the
wing, namely the two species of water-thrush or wagtails, and the oven-bird or wood-wagtail.
The latter is the most common, and few observers of the birds can have failed to notice its
easy, gliding walk. Its other lark trait, namely singing in the air, seems not to have been
observed by any other naturalist. Yet it is a well-established characteristic, and may be verified
by any person who will spend a half hour in the woods where this bird abounds on some June
afternoon or evening. I hear it very frequently after sundown, when the ecstatic singer can
hardly be distinguished against the sky. I know of a high, bald-top mountain where I have sat
late in the afternoon and heard them as often as one every minute. Sometimes the bird would
be far below me, sometimes near at hand; and very frequently the singer would be hovering a
hundred feet above the summit. He would start from the trees on one side of the open space,
reach his climax in the air, and plunge down on the other side. His descent after the song
is finished is very rapid, and precisely like that of the titlark when it sweeps down from
its course to alight on the ground.

I first verified this observation some years ago. I had long been familiar with the song, but
had only strongly suspected the author of it, when, as I was walking in the woods one evening,
just as the leaves were putting out, I saw one of these birds but a few rods from me. I was
saying to myself, half audibly, "Come, now, show off, if it is in you; I have come to the woods
expressly to settle this point," when it began to ascend, by short hops and flights, through
the branches, uttering a sharp, preliminary chirp. I followed it with my eye; saw it mount
into the air and circle over the woods; and saw it sweep down again and dive through the trees,
almost to the very perch from which it had started.

As the paramount question in the life of a bird is the question of food, perhaps the most serious
troubles our feathered neighbors encounter are early in the spring, after the supply of fat
with which Nature stores every corner and by-place of the system, thereby anticipating the
scarcity of food, has been exhausted, and the sudden and severe changes in the weather which
occur at this season make unusual demands upon their vitality. No doubt many of the earlier
birds die from starvation and exposure at this season. Among a troop of Canada sparrows which
I came upon one March day, all of them evidently much reduced, one was so feeble that I caught
it in my hand.

During the present season, a very severe cold spell the first week in March drove the bluebirds
to seek shelter about the houses and outbuildings. As night approached, and the winds and the
cold increased, they seemed filled with apprehension and alarm, and in the outskirts of the
city came about the windows and the doors, crept beneath the blinds, clung to the gutters and
beneath the cornice, flitted from porch to porch, and from house to house, seeking in vain
from some safe retreat from the cold. The street pump, which had a small opening just over
the handle, was an attraction which they could not resist. And yet they seemed aware of the
insecurity of the position; for no sooner would they stow themselves away into the interior
of the pump, to the number of six or eight, than they would rush out again, as if apprehensive
of some approaching danger. Time after time the cavity was filled and refilled, with blue and
brown intermingled, and as often emptied. Presently they tarried longer than usual, when I
made a sudden sally and captured three, that found a warmer and safer lodging for the night
in the cellar.

In the fall, birds and fowls of all kinds become very fat.  The squirrels and mice lay by a
supply of food in their dens and retreats, but the birds, to a considerable extent, especially
our winter residents, carry an equivalent in their own systems, in the form of adipose tissue.
I killed a red-shouldered hawk one December, and on removing the skin found the body completely
encased in a coating of fat one quarter of an inch in thickness. Not a particle of muscle was
visible. This coating not only serves as a protection against the cold, but supplies the waste
of the system when food is scarce or fails altogether.

The crows at this season are in the same condition. It is estimated that a crow needs at least
half a pound of meat per day, but it is evident that for weeks and months during the winter
and spring they must subsist on a mere fraction of that amount. I have no doubt that a crow
or hawk, when in his fall condition, would live two weeks without a morsel of food passing
his beak; a domestic fowl will do as much. One January I unwittingly shut a hen under the door
of an outbuilding, where not a particle of food could be obtained, and where she was entirely
unprotected from the severe cold. When the luckless Dominick was discovered, about eighteen
days afterward, she was brisk and lively, but fearfully pinched up, and as light as a bunch
of feathers. The slightest wind carried her before it. But by judicious feeding she was soon
restored.

The circumstances of the bluebirds being emboldened by the cold suggests the fact that the
fear of man, which by now seems like an instinct in the birds, is evidently an acquired trait,
and foreign to them in a state of primitive nature. Every gunner has observed, to his chagrin,
how wild the pigeons become after a few days of firing among them; and, to his delight, how
easy it is to approach near his game in new or unfrequented woods. Professor Baird [footnote:
Then at the head of the Smithsonian Institution] tells me that a correspondent of theirs visited
a small island in the Pacific Ocean, situated about two hundred miles off Cape St. Lucas, to
procure specimens. The island was but a few miles in extent, and had probably never been visited
half a dozen times by human beings. The naturalist found the birds and water-fowls so tame
that it was but a waste of ammunition to shoot them. Fixing a noose on the end of a long stick,
he captured them by putting it over their necks and hauling them to him. In some cases not
even this contrivance was needed. A species of mockingbird in particular, larger than ours
and a splendid songster, made itself so familiar as to be almost a nuisance, hopping on the
table where the collector was writing, and scattering the pens and paper. Eighteen species
were found, twelve of them peculiar to the island.

Thoreau relates that in the woods of Maine the Canada jay will sometimes make its meal with
the lumbermen, taking the food out of their hands.

Yet notwithstanding the birds have come to look upon man as their natural enemy, there can
be little doubt that civilization is on the whole favorable to their increase and perpetuity,
especially to the smaller species. With man comes flies and moths, and insects of all kinds
in greater abundance; new plants and weeds are introduced, and, with the clearing up of the
country, are sowed broadcast over the land.

The larks and snow buntings that come to us from the north subsist almost entirely upon the
seeds of grasses and plants; and how many of our more common and abundant species are field-birds,
and entire strangers to deep forests?

In Europe some birds have become almost domesticated, like the house sparrow; and in our own
country the cliff swallow seems to have entirely abandoned ledges and shelving rocks, as a
place to nest, for the eaves and projections of farm and other outbuildings.

After one has made the acquaintance of most of the land-birds, there remain the seashore and
its treasures. How little one knows of the aquatic fowls, even after reading carefully the
best authorities, was recently forced home to my mind by the following circumstance: I was
spending a vacation in the interior of New York, when one day a stranger alighted before the
house, and with a cigar box in his hand approached me as I sat in the doorway. I was about
to say that he would waste his time in recommending his cigars to me, as I never smoked, when
he said that, hearing I knew something about birds, he had brought me one which had been picked
up a few hours before in a hay-field near the village, and which was stranger to all who had
seen it. As he began to undo the box I expected to see some of our own rarer birds, perhaps
the rose-breasted grosbeak or Bohemian chatterer. Imagine, then, how I was taken aback when
I beheld instead a swallow-shaped bird, quite as large as a pigeon, with a forked tail, glossy
black above and snow-white beneath. Its parti-webbed feet, and its long graceful wings, at
a glance told that it was a sea-bird; but as to its name or habitat I must defer my answer
till I could get a peep into Audubon or some collection.

The bird had fallen down exhausted in a meadow, and was picked up just as the life was leaving
its body. The place must have been one hundred and fifty miles from the sea as the bird flies.
As it was the sooty tern, which inhabits the Florida Keys, its appearance so far north and
so far inland may be considered somewhat remarkable. On removing the skin I found it terribly
emaciated. It had no doubt starved to death, ruined by too much wing. Another Icarus. Its great
power of flight had made it bold and venturesome, and had carried it so far out of its range
that it starved to death before it could return.

The sooty tern is sometimes called the sea-swallow on account of its form and the power of
flight. It will fly nearly all day at sea, picking up food from the surface of the water. There
are several species of terns, some of them strikingly beautiful.

   1868.

INDEX

[Transcribist's note: condensed to bird names and their scientific names]

  Blackbird, crow, or purple grackle (Quiscalus quiscula).
  Bluebird (Sialia sialis).
  Bobolink (Dolichonyx oryzivorus).
  Bunting, black-throated or dickcissel (Spiza americana).
  Bunting, snow (Passerina nivalis).
  Buzzard, turkey, or turkey vulture (Cathartes aura).

  Cardinal.  SEE Grosbeak, cardinal.
  Catbird (Galeoscoptes carolinensis).
  Cedar-bird, or Cedar waxwing (Ampelis cedrorum).
  Chat, yellow-breasted (Icteria virens).
  Chewink, or towhee (Pipilo erythrophthalmus).
  Chickadee (Parus atricapillus).
  Cow-bunting, or cowbird (Molothrus ater).
  Creeper, brown (Certhia familiaris americana).
  Crow, American (Corvus brachyrhynchos).
  Cuckoo, black-billed (Coccyzux erythrophthalmus).
  Cuckoo, European.
  Cuckoo, yellow-billed (Coccyzus americanus).

  Dickcissel.  SEE Bunting, black-throated.
  Dove, turtle, or mourning dove (Zenaidura macroura).
  Duck, wood (Aix sponsa).

  Eagle, bald (Haliaeetus leucocephalus).
  Eagle, golden (Aquila chrysaetos).

  Finch, grass.  SEE Sparrow, field.
  Finch, pine, OR pine siskin (Spinus pinus).
  Finch, purple, OR linnet (Carpodacus purpureus).
  Flicker.  SEE Woodpecker, golden-winged.
  Flycatcher, great crested (Myiarchus crinitus).
  Flycatcher, green-crested, OR green-crested pewee (Empidonax
     virescens).
  Flycatcher, white-eyed.  SEE Vireo, white-eyed.
  Fox, gray, 43.

  Gnatcatcher, blue-gray (Polioptila caerulea).
  Goldfinch, American, OR yellow-bird (Astragalinus tristis).
  Grackle, purple.  SEE Blackbird, crow.
  Grosbeak, blue (Guiraca caerulea).
  Grosbeak, cardinal, OR Virginia red-bird, OR cardinal (Cardinalis
     cardinalis).
  Grosbeak, rose-breasted (Zamelodia ludoviciana).
  Grouse, ruffed.  SEE Partridge.

  Hairbird.  SEE Sparrow, social.
  Hawk, fish, OR American osprey (Pandion haliaetus carolinensis).
  Hawk, hen.
  Hawk, pigeon.
  Hawk, red-shouldered (Buteo lineatus).
  Hawk, red-tailed (Buteo borealis).
  Hawk, sharp-shinned (Accipiter velox).
  Hen, domestic.
  Heron, great blue (Ardea herodias).
  High-hole.  SEE Woodpecker, golden-winged.
  Hummingbird, ruby-throated (Trochilus colubris).

  Indigo-bird (Cyanospiza cyanea).

  Jay, blue (Cyanocitta cristata).
  Jay, Canada (Perisoreus canadensis).

  Kingbird (Tyrannus tyrannus).
  Kinglet, golden-crowned (Regulus satrapa).
  Kinglet, ruby-crowned (Regulus calendula).

  Lark, shore, OR horned lark (Otocoris alpestris).

  Martin, purple (Progne subis).
  Meadowlark (sturnella magna).
  Merganser, red-breasted (Merganser serrator).
  Mockingbird (Mimus polyglottos).

  Nightingale.
  Nuthatch, (Sitta).

  Oriole, Baltimore (Icterus galbula).
  Oriole, orchard.  SEE Starling, orchard.
  Osprey. SEE Hawk, fish.
  Owl, screech (megascops asio).

  Partridge, OR ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus).
  Pewee.  SEE Phoebe-bird.
  Pewee, green-crested.  SEE Flycatcher, green-crested.
  Pewee, wood (Contopus virens).
  Phoebe-bird, OR pewee (Sayornis phoebe).
  Pickerel.
  Pigeon, wild, OR passenger pigeon (Ectopistes migratorius).
  Pipit, American, OR titlark (Anthus pensilvanicus).

  Quail, OR bob-white (Colinus virginianus).

  Red-bird, summer, OR summer tanager (Piranga rubra).
  Red-bird, Virginia.  SEE Grosbeak, cardinal.
  Redstart (Setophaga ruticilla).
  Robin (Merula migratoria)..

  Sandpiper, solitary (Helodromas solitarius).
  Snipes.
  Snowbird, OR slate-colored junco (Junco hyemalis).
  Sparrow, bush.  SEE Sparrow, wood.
  Sparrow, Canada, OR tree sparrow (Spizella monticola).
  Sparrow, English.  SEE Sparrow, house.
  Sparrow, field, OR vesper sparrow, OR grass finch (Poaecetes
     gramineus).  SEE ALSO Sparrow, wood.
  Sparrow, fox (Passerella iliaca).
  Sparrow, house, OR English sparrow (Passer domesticus).
  Sparrow, savanna (Passerculus sandwichensis savanna).
  Sparrow, social, OR chipping sparrow, OR chippie, OR hairbird
     (Spizella socialis).
  Sparrow, song (Melospiza cinerea melodia).
  Sparrow, swamp (Melospiza georgiana).
  Sparrow, tree.  SEE Sparrow, Canada.
  Sparrow, vesper.  SEE Sparrow, field.
  Sparrow, white-crowned (Zonotrichia leucophrys).
  Sparrow, white-throated (Zonotrichia albicollis).
  Sparrow, wood, OR bush sparrow, OR field sparrow (Spizella
     pusilla).
  Squirrel, black.
  Squirrel, gray.
  Squirrel, red.
  Starling, orchard, OR orchard oriole (Icterus spurius).
  Swallow, barn (Hirundo erythrogastra).
  Swallow, chimney, OR chimney swift (Chaetura pelagica).
  Swallow, cliff (Petrochelidon lunifrons).
  Swallow, rough-winged (Stelgidopteryx serripennis).

  Tanager, scarlet (Piranga erythromelas).
  Tanager, summer.  SEE Red-bird, summer.
  Tern, sooty (sterna fuliginosa).
  Thrush, golden-crowned, OR wood-wagtail, OR oven-bird (Seiurus
     aurocapillus).
  Thrush, gray-cheeked (Hylocichla alicae).
  Thrush, hermit (Hylocichla guttata pallasii).
  Thrush, olive-backed, OR Swainson's thrush (Hylocichla ustulata
     swainsoni).
  Thrush, red, OR mavis, OR ferrugninous thrush, OR brown thrasher
     (Toxostoma rufum).
  Thrush, varied (Ixoreus naevius).
  Thrush, Wilson's.  SEE Veery.
  Thrush, wood (Hylocichla mustelina).
  Titlark.  SEE Pipit, American.
  Titmouse, gray-crested, OR tufted titmouse (Baelophus bicolor).
  Turkey, domestic.
  Turkey, wild (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris).

  Veery, OR Wilson's thrush (Hylocichla fuscescens).
  Vireo, red-eyed (Vireo olivaceus).
  Vireo, solitary, OR blue-headed vireo (Vireo solitarius).
  Vireo, warbling (Vireo gilvus).
  Vireo, white-eyed, OR white-eyed flycatcher (Vireo noveboracensis).
  Vireo, yellow-throated, OR yellow-breasted flycatcher (Vireo
     flavifrons).

  Wagtail.  SEE Water-thrush AND Thrush, golden-crowned.
  Warbler, Audubon's (Dendroica auduboni).
  Warbler, bay-breasted (Dendroica castanea).
  Warbler, black and white (Mniotilta varia).
  Warbler, black and yellow, OR magnolia warbler (Dendroica maculosa).
  Warbler, Blackburnian (Dendroica blackburniae).
  Warbler, black-poll (Dendroica striata).
  Warbler, black-throated blue, OR blue-backed warbler (Dendroica
     caerulescens).
  Warbler, black-throated green, OR green-backed warbler (Dendroica
     virens).
  Warbler, blue-winged (Helminthophila pinus).
  Warbler, blue yellow-backed, OR northern parula warbler
     (Compsothlypis americana usneae).
  Warbler, Canada (Wilsonia canadensis).
  Warbler, cerulean (Dendroica caerulea).
  Warbler, chestnut-sided (Dendroica pensylvanica).
  Warbler, hooded (Wilsonia mitrata).
  Warbler, Kentucky (Geothlypis formosa).
  Warbler, mourning (Geothlypis philadelphia).
  Warbler, Swainson's (Helinaia swainsonii).
  Warbler, worm-eating (Helmitheros vermivorus).
  Warbler, yellow (Dendroica aestiva).
  Warbler, yellow red-poll, OR yellow palm warbler (Dendroica palmarum
     hypochrysea).
  Warbler, yellow-rumped, OR myrtle warbler (Dendroica coronata).
  Water-thrush, Louisiana, OR large-billed water thrush (Seiurus
     noveboracensis).
  Water-thrush, northern (Seiurus noveboracensis).
  Woodpecker, downy (Dryobates pubescens medianus).
  Woodpecker, golden-winged, OR high-hole, OR flicker, OR yarup, OR
     yellow-hammer (Colaptes auratus luteus).
  Woodpecker, red-headed (Melanerpes erythrocephalus).
  Woodpecker, red-shafted, OR red-shafted flicker (Colaptes cafer
     collaris).
  Woodpecker, yellow-bellied, OR yellow-bellied sapsucker (Sphyrapicus
     varius).
  Wood-wagtail.  SEE Thrush, golden-crowned.
  Wren, Carolina (Thryothorus ludovicianus).
  Wren, house (Troglodytes Aedon).
  Wren, ruby-crowned.  SEE Kinglet, ruby crowned.
  Wren, winter (Olbiorchilus hiemalis).

  Yarup.  SEE Woodpecker, golden-winged.
  Yellow-hammer.  SEE Woodpecker, golden winged.
  Yellow-throat, Maryland, OR northern yellow-throat (Geothlypis
     trichas brachydactyla).

[Transcribist's note: John Burroughs used some characters which are not standard to our writing
in 2001.

He used a diaeresis in preeminent, and accented "e's in debris and denouement. These have been
replaced with plain letters.

[Updater's note: "preeminent", "debris", and "denouement" have all been corrected to have their
accented letters.

I substituted the letters "oe" for the ligature, used often in the word phoebe.  Simularly
the "e" in the golden eagle's scientific name is modernized.

He also used symbols available to a typesetter which are unavailable to us in ASCII (plain
vanilla text) to illustrate bird calls and notes.  I have replaced these with a description
of what was there originally.

Finally, he used italics throughout the book that I was unable to retain, because of the ASCII
format.  The two uses of the italics were to denote scientific names and to emphasize.  I have
done nothing to note where the italics were used, as I don't think it really has a great affect
on reading this book.]

