which, I submit, not only destroys all the poetry, but is decidedly not English!

The next passage I would notice is from Much Ado about Nothing, p. 76. How, I would ask, can
the phrase--

 "And sorrow wag,"

be a misprint for "call sorrow joy?" No compositor, or scribe either, could possibly be misled
by any sound from the "reader" into such a mistake as that! The words "and sorrow wag," I admit,
are not sense; but the substitution of "call sorrow joy" strikes me as bald and common-place
in the extreme, and there is no pretence for its having any authority. If, then, we are to
have a mere fanciful emendation, why not "bid sorrow wag?" This would be doing far less violence
to the printed text, for it would only require the alteration of two letters in the word "and;"
while it would preserve the Shakspearian character of the passage. "Wag" is a favourite expression
in {451} the comedies of the Bard, and occurs repeatedly in his works. The passage would then
run thus--

 "If such a one will smile and stroke his beard,
  Bid sorrow wag--cry hem! when he should groan."

In p. 73. we find--

 "Soul-tainted flesh," &c.

substituted for "foul tainted flesh;" and we are told that the critics have been all wrong,
who supposed that Shakspeare intended any "metaphor from the kitchen!" If so, what meaning
can be attached to the line--

 "And salt too little which may season give?"

If that is not a metaphor from the kitchen, I know not what could be? I still believe that
"foul tainted flesh" is the correct reading. The expression "soul-tainted flesh" is not intelligible.
It should rather be "soul-tainting flesh." The soul may be tainted by the flesh: but how the
flesh can be soul-tainted, I cannot understand.

Turning further back, to p. 69., we find it asserted, quite dogmatically, that the word "truths"
of the folios ought to be "proofs;" but no reason whatever is offered for the change. I cannot
help thinking that "seeming truths" is much the most poetical expression, while in "seeming
proofs" there is something like redundancy,--to say nothing of the phrase being infinitely
more common-place!

In the play of the Tempest, p. 4., the beautiful passage--

                 "he being thus lorded
  Not only with what my revenue yielded," &c.,

is degraded into "he being thus loaded," &c. Can there be a moment's doubt that "lorded" was
the word used by Shakspeare? It is completely in his style, which was on all occasions to coin
verbs out of substantives, if he could. "He being thus lorded," i. e. ennobled "with what my
revenue yielded," is surely a far superior expression to "being thus loaded,"--as if the poet
were speaking of a costermonger's donkey!

Again, in p. 10.:

 "Wherefore this ghastly looking?"

or, this ghastly appearance? Who will venture to say, that the substitution of "thus ghastly
looking" is not decidedly a change for the worse?

In the Merchant of Venice, p. 118.:

 "and leave itself unfurnished,"

is altered to "leave itself unfinished!" I confess I cannot see the slightest warrant for this
change. The words--

                 "having made one,
  Methinks IT should have power to steal both his,"

distinctly show that the author was alluding to the eye only, and not to the portrait and how
could the eye (already made) describe itself as unfinished? Surely the sense is unfurnished,
that is, unfurnished with its companion, or probably with the other accessories required to
complete the portrait.

P. 119. has the line--

 "And swearing 'til my very roof was dry,"

transmogrified into--

 "And swearing 'til my very tongue was dry."

Now, why "this lame and impotent conclusion?" What can be a more common expression than the
"roof of the mouth?" and it is just the part which is most affected by a sensation of dryness
and pricking, after any excitement in speaking, whereas the tongue is not the member that suffers!

In As You Like It, p. 127., in the line--

 "Mistress dispatch you with your safest haste,"

the last two words are made "fastest haste," which, to say the least, are tautology, and are
like talking, of the "highest height", or the the "deepest depth!" Surely, the original form
of words, "Dispatch you with your safest haste;" that is, with as much haste as is consistent
with your personal safety--is much more dignified and polished address from the duke to a lady,
and at the same time more poetical!

In p. 129.,

 "The constant service of the antique world,"

is converted into

 "The constant favour of the antique world:"

in which line I cannot discover any sense. If I might hazard a guess, I should suggest that
the error is in the second word, "service," and that it ought to be "servants:"

 "When servants sweat for duty, not for meed."

In the Taming of the Shrew, p. 143., the substitution of "Warwickshire ale" for "sheer ale"
strikes me as very far-fetched, and wholly unnecessary. There is no defect of sense in the
term "sheer ale." Sly means to say, he was "fourteen pence on the score for ale alone:" just
as one speaks of "sheer nonsense," i. e. nothing but nonsense, "sheer buffoonery," "sheer malice,"
&c. Why should Sly talk of being in debt for Warwickshire ale at Wincot? If he kind been drinking
ale from Staffordshire, or Derbyshire, or Kent, he might possibly have named the county it
came from; but to talk of Warwickshire ale within a few miles of Stratford-on-Avon seems absurd.
It is as if a man came from Barclay and Perkins's, and talked of having been drinking "London
porter."

In p. 144., I submit, with great deference, that turning "Aristotle's checks" into "Aristotle's
ethics" is the very reverse of an improvement. What can be more intelligible than the line--

 "And so devote to Aristotle's checks;"

that is, to the checks which Aristotle's rules impose upon profligacy? The idea is more poetical,
{452} and the line runs more smoothly; while the altered line is prosaic in comparison, and
the metre is not correct.

My dwindling space warns me that I must very soon pause; but these examples can be extended
ad infinitum, should another opportunity be afforded me.

The instances of alterations simply unnecessary are too numerous to be recorded here. I have
already a list of forty odd, selected from only eight plays.

CECIL HARBOTTLE.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Local Rhymes, Norfolk.--

 "Halvergate hares, Reedham rats,
  Southwood swine, and Cantley cats;
  Acle asses, Moulton mules,
  Beighton bears, and Freethorpe fools."

Z. E. R.

"Hobson's Choice."--I, the other day, in a paper of 1737, came upon the inclosed, if of interest
sufficient for insertion in "N. & Q.:"

    "Upon the mention of Mr. Freeman being appointed one of the four horse
    carriers to the university of Cambridge, we had the following
    paragraph:--'This was the office that old Hobson enjoyed, in which he
    acquired so large a fortune as enabled him to leave the town that
    ever-memorable legacy the conduit, that stands on the Market Hill, with
    an estate to keep it perpetually in repair. The same person gave rise
    to the well-known adage, 'Hobson's choice--this or none;' founded upon
    his management in business. He used to keep, it seems, hackney horses,
    that he let out to young gentlemen of the university, with whose
    characters being well acquainted, he suited his beast to its rider, who
    upon a dislike was sure to receive that answer from him, 'This or
    none.'"

J. W. G. G.

Khond Fable.--The following is a free version of a fable current among the Khonds of Oriosa,
of whom a very interesting account is given by Captain Macpherson in the Journal of the Royal
Asiatic Society for 1852:

    "A mosquito was seated on the horn of a bull, and fearing that his
    weight might be oppressive to the quadruped, he politely accosted him,
    begging that, if he felt any inconvenience, he would mention it, and
    professing himself ready, in that case, to remove to some other
    position. The bull replied, 'O mosquito, so far are you from oppressing
    me with your weight, that I was not even aware of your existence.'"

The moral of this is common enough, but is the fable found elsewhere in a similar form?

J. C. R.

Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton, Bart.--As those who have read the deeply interesting memoirs of Sir
Thomas Fowell Buxton are aware, he was placed at a school in Donnybrook in the year 1802, and
shortly after "entered" the University of Dublin. His success in that seat of learning, where
able competitors were many in number, was brilliant; for "on the 14th of April in the same
year [1807], he received his thirteenth premium, and also the highest honour of the university,--the
gold medal. With these distinctions, and the four silver medals from the Historical Society,
he prepared to return to England." In fact, so high did his character stand, that a proposal
was made to him by the electors (which, however, he deemed it prudent to decline) to come forward
as a candidate for the representation of the university in the imperial parliament, and good
grounds were given him to expect a triumphant return.

Now, this man was doubtless an honour to the "silent(?) sister" in Ireland; and, as an Irishman,
I feel some little degree of pride in our having educated him so well for his subsequent career.
With surprise, then, do I find, on referring to the Dublin University Calendar for the present
year, the name of a "Mr. John Powell Buxton" in the list of gold medallists. The editor appears
to be sadly ignorant of the proper person, and cannot lay the blunder at the printer's door,
having very unaccountably repeated it from year to year. I have taken the trouble of examining
many volumes of the Calendar.

ABHBA

Anagrams.--I beg to forward the following:

 "Antonius B. Magliabechius"

(He was the librarian at Florence, about the end of the sixteenth century). This name makes--

 "Is unus Bibliotheca magna."

In the poems of some Jesuit father (Bacchusius, I think) the following rather offensive one
is mentioned, on the celebrated father Costerus:

 "Petrus Costerus Jesuita!"

i. e.

 "Vere tu es asinus: ita!"

PHILOBIBLION.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

SEAL OF WILLIAM D'ALBINI.

A few years since there was published a History of the Parish of Attleburgh, in Norfolk, by
the then rector, Dr. Barrett. It is a very handsome volume in quarto, and reflects great credit
upon the learning and taste of the reverend editor.

What I wish more particularly to allude to is an engraving of the seal of William de Albini,
who was called "William with the Strong Hand;" of whom Dugdale records, that having distinguished
himself at a tournament appointed by a queen of France, then a widow, she became so enamoured
of him that she offered him marriage. But he, having plighted his troth to Adeliza, widow to
{453} King Henry I. of England, refused her. In revenge for this refusal, the queen of France
inveigled him into a den in the garden, where was a fierce lion. Being in this danger, he rolled
his mantle about his arm, and putting his hand into the mouth of the beast, pulled out his
tongue by the root; followed the queen to her palace, and gave it to one of her maids to present
to her. Returning to England with the fame of this glorious exploit, he was forthwith advanced
to the earldom of Arundel, and for his arms the lion given him.

Amongst the many illustrations in Dr. Barrett's book is the seal of this William de Albini,
representing a knight on horseback, in the usual style of such knightly seals; but in front
of the knight is a young lion, and under the feet of the horse some sort of animal of the lizard
kind.

In elucidation of this seal, there is a long and elaborate note, with remarks by Mr. Hawkins
of the British Museum, with a view of showing that the device on this seal alludes to the story
of his combat with the lion.

The attempt to establish this point appears to me amusing; for there seems nothing on the face
of the seal different from the usual seals of royal and knightly rank in ancient times.

I should like to learn from some of your correspondents, whether this Psalm, or this portion
of it, was used in the solemnities attendant on the installation of a knight, which would tend
much to confirm my conjecture.

SENEX.

       *       *       *       *       *

FORMS OF JUDICIAL OATH.

The forms of an oath are different among different denominations of Christians. The Roman Catholics
of the Continent swear by raising the hand; the Scotch Presbyterians follow the same practice.
The Protestants of the Church of England are sworn on the Gospels; so also are the Irish Roman
Catholics. The Quakers reject every form of oath, and confine themselves to a simple affirmation.
Upon these points I beg leave to submit the following Queries.

1. What form of judicial oath was first sanctioned by the professors of Christianity as a body?
It is stated in Haydn's Dictionary of Dates, that "oaths were taken on the Gospels so early
as A.D. 528." How were they taken before then?

2. Did the practice of swearing on the Gospels prevail in England before the Reformation? If
not, at what period was it introduced?

3. When was that form of oath first adopted by the Irish; and was its adoption a voluntary
proceeding on their part, or enforced by legislative enactment?

4. Was the practice of raising the hand in use in Scotland before the Reformation?

5. At what period was the latter form adopted by the Continental Christians, in lieu of the
more solemn oath on the Gospels?

6. Are there now, or have there been at any former period, any forms of judicial oath in use
among Christians, other than the forms above mentioned?

HENRY H. BREEN.

St. Lucia.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Passage in Boerhaave.--Will any of our readers kindly oblige me by the exact word of a passage
in Boerhaave, of which I cite the following from memory?--

    "The only malady inherent in the human frame, is the decay of old age."

A FOREIGN SURGEON.

7. Charlotte Street, Bedford Square.

Story of Ezzelin.--Where is the story to be found from which Fuseli derived the subject for
his remarkable picture of Ezzelin (Braccioferro) musing over the body of Meduna? It was engraved
by J. R. Smith, and published by Jas. Birchel, 473. Strand, May, 1781. What has become of the
original picture?

J. SANSOM.

The Duke.--Can any of your readers tell me whether Sir Arthur Wellesley's speech in the House
of Commons upon Mr. Paull's charge against his brother, was the first he made in Parliament?

ROBERT J. ALLEN.

Oxford.

General Sir Dennis Pack.--This gallant officer, who, in command of the light division of the
Duke's army, distinguished himself in nearly every battle of the Peninsula, and finally at
Waterloo, was descended from a younger son of Simon, son of Sir Christopher Pack, Alderman
and Lord Mayor of London. The family was originally from Leicestershire. Sir Christopher, having
advanced money for the reduction of the Irish rebels of 1641, received a grant of land in the
county of Westmeath; and his younger son, Simon, settled in Ireland about that period. From
this Simon descended Thomas Pack, Esq., of Ballinakill in the Queen's County, grandfather of
Sir Dennis Pack.

As I have in the press a History of the Cathedral of St. Canice, Kilkenny, which latter contains
a monument and a fine bust of Sir Dennis Pack by Chantrey, and of which his father the Rev.
Thomas {454} Pack, D.D., was dean, any information which will enable me to complete the pedigree
between Simon Pack and the above-named Thomas will be thankfully received.

JAMES GRAVES.

Kilkenny.

Haveringemere.--Gervase of Tilbury, in the 4th book of his Otia Imperialia, sect. 88., mentions
a certain pond or mere lying near the confines of Wales, and named Haveringemere, of which
the peculiarity is, that if a person passing over it in a boat utters, in a loud voice, certain
opprobrious words, a commotion arises in the waters and sinks the boat. The words, as printed
in the edition of Leibnitz (Leibnitii Scriptores Brunsvicenses, tom. i. p. 990.), are "Prout
haveringemere aut allethophe cunthefere;" which he explains to mean, "Phrut tibi, mare, et
omnibus qui te transfretant." He adds with great simplicity: "Et satis mirandum, quod aquæ
hujus modi concipiunt indignationes." It is plain that we ought to read, "Phrut Haveringemere,
and alle thai that on thee fere" (i. e. ferry). Phrut or prut is a word of contempt, of which
Mr. Halliwell gives an instance, s. v. Prut, from an Harleian MS.: "And seyth prut for thy
cursing prest." Is anything known of this mere at the present day, and is there any remnant
of this old superstition? Gervase wrote his book anno 1211.

C. W. G.

Old Pictures of the Spanish Armada.--At Beddington Hall, famous for its fine banqueting-hall,
in which Queen Elizabeth feasted, I have heard that there used to be one or more pictures of
the Spanish Armada, presented by Elizabeth herself to the family resident there. Can any reader
of "N. & Q." inform me whether these pictures (if more than one) are still in existence: if
so, where they are, and whether they are to be seen? A large gilt lock, also presented by Queen
Elizabeth, still remains on one of the doors of the said banqueting-hall.

J. S. A.

Old Broad Street.

Bell Inscription.--The following inscription occurs on two bells formerly belonging to St.
Sepulchre's Church, Cambridge. I should be glad of an explanation:

 "[DE] + [PVRI] SANTI EDMONDVS STEFANVS TOMMI ME FECIT [WL] 1576."

C. W. G.

Loselerius Villerius, &c.--I wish to know who was Loselerius Villerius, who edited an edition
of the Greek Testament, with the Vulgate and Beza's Latin version (I think) in parallel columns.
This edition seems to have been successful, as I have a copy of the third edition. The title-page
of my copy is missing, but the dedication to Henry Earl of Huntingdon is dated "London, vi
cal. Nov. 1573." Any information about Loselerius would be acceptable. I should also be glad
to know whether the edition is considered at all valuable.

Whilst upon this subject, let me ask whether there is any list of editions of the Bible that
can be looked upon as in any way complete? I have had occasion to refer to the Duke of Sussex's
catalogue, but have there been unable to find all that I required. There is, for instance,
in a friend's possession, a Bible which his family traditions maintain to be of great rarity.
I find it catalogued nowhere, and should be glad to know if it is really so great a curiosity.
It is a fine folio, profusely illustrated. I subjoin a copy of the title-page:

    "The Holy Bible, containing the Old and New Testaments, &c., with most
    profitable Annotations on all the hard Places, and other Things of
    great Importance; which Notes have never before been set forth with
    this new Translation, but are now placed in due order, with great Care
    and Industry. A Amsterdam, printed for Stephen Swart, at the Crowned
    Bible, on the West Side of the Exchange. 1679."

S. A. S.

Bridgewater.

