I passed all the last week at Park-place, where one of the bravest men in the world, who is
not permitted to contribute to our conquests, was indulged in being the happiest by being with
one of the most deserving women--for Campbell-goodness no more wears out than Campbell-beauty--all
their good qualities are huckaback.(1076)  YOU See the Duchess(1077) has imbibed so much of'
their durableness, that she is good-humoured enough to dine at a tavern at seventy-six.

Sir William Stanhope wrote to Mrs. Ellis,(1078) that he had pleased himself, having seen much
of Mr. Nugent and Lady Berkeley this summer, and having been so charmed with the felicity of
their menage, that he could not resist marrying again.  His daughter replied, that it had always
been her opinion, that people should please themselves, and that she was glad he had; but as
to taking the precedent of Lady Berkeley, she hoped it would answer in nothing but in my Lady
Stanhope having three children the first year.  You see, my lord, Mrs. Ellis has bottled up
her words(1079) till they sparkle at last!

I long to have your approbation of my Holbein-chamber; it has a comely sobriety that I think
answers very well to the tone it should have.  My new printing-house is finished, in order
to pull down the old one, and lay the foundations next summer of my round tower.  Then follows
the gallery and chapel-cabinet. I hear your lordship has tapped your magnificent front too.
Well, when all your magnificences and minimificences are finished, then, we--won't sit down
and drink, as Pyrrhus said,--no, I trust we shall never conclude our plans so filthily: then--I
fear we shall begin others.  Indeed, I don't know what the Countess may do: if she imitates
her mother, she will go to a tavern at fourscore, and then she and Pyrrhus may take a bottle
together---I hope she will live to try at least whether she likes it. -Adieu, both!

(1075) Lady Townshend.  On the death of General Wolfe, Colonel Townshend received the surrender.

(1076) Lady Ailesbury and Lady Strafford, both preserved their beauty so long, that Mr. Walpole
called them huck(iback beauties, that never wear out.

(1077) The Duchess of Argyle, widow of John Campbell, Duke of Argyle, and mother to Lady Strafford.

(1078) His daughter.

(1079) She was very silent.

519 Letter 342 To The Right Hon. Lady Hervey. Saturday, Nov. 3d, 1759.

Poor Robins' Almanack. Thick fogs, and some wet.  Go not out of town.  Gouts and rheumatisms
are abroad.  Warm clothes, good fires, and a room full of pictures, glasses, and scarlet damask
are the best physic.

In short, for fear your ladyship should think of Strawberry on Saturday, I can't help telling
you that I am to breakfast at Petersham that day with Mr. Fox and Lady Caroline, Lord and Lady
Waldegrave.  How did you like the farce? George Selwyn says he wants to see High Life below
Stairs (1080) as he is weary of low life above stairs.

(1080) This popular' farce was written by the Rev.  James Townley, high master of Merchant
Tailors' School . Dr, Johnson said of it, "Here is a farce which is really very diverting when
you see it acted, and yet one may read it and not know that one has been reading any thing
at all;" and of the actors, Goldsmith tells us, that "Mr. Palmer and Mr. King were entirely
what they desired to represent; and Mrs. Clive (but what need I talk of her, since without
exaggeration she has more true humour than any actor or actress, upon the English or any other
stage, I have seen), she, I say, did the part all the justice it was capable of."  It put me
in mind of the queen that sunk at Charing-cross and rose at Queenhithe.

(1081) The public credit in France, had, at this time, suffered a very severe blow, the court
having stopped the payment of several of the public bills and funds to a vast amount.-E.

