The Solar luminary is eclipsed on the 20th at 3 h. 47 min. afternoon. He is above the horizon
during the whole time the central shade is passing over the disc of the earth, but the moon
having nearly 2 deg. southern latitude at the time of true conjunction, in middle of the eclipse,
it will be invisible not only to us but to the whole boreal hemisphere of the globe. He enters
Scorpio on the 24th at 4 h. 36 min. morning.

From the observations made upon the annual eclipses, it appears that the period of the moon
is now shorter, and consequently that her distance from the earth is now less than in former
ages, and this has been considered as an argument against those who assert that the world may
have existed from eternity; for it was hence inferred that the moon moves in a resisting medium,
and therefore that her motion must by degrees be all destroyed, in which case she must at last
come to the earth. But M. de la Place has shewn that this acceleration of the moon's period
is a necessary consequence of universal gravitation, and that it arises from the action of
the planets upon the moon. He has also shewn that this acceleration will go on till it arrives
at a certain limit, when it will be changed into a retardation, or in other words, there are
two limits between which the lunar period fluctuates, but neither of which it can pass.

PASCHE.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fine Arts.

       *       *       *       *       *

HANS HOLBEIN.

Holbein is the man who has been hitherto considered as the most brilliant genius Switzerland
has produced in the art of painting. He is here universally believed to have been a native
of Switzerland. His earliest biographers, Mander and Patin, asserted that he was born at Basel,
and they have been copied by all our biographical dictionaries. Another biographer, however,
appears, himself a Swiss, and known as the author of some other clever works, and proves, on
the most satisfactory evidence, that Holbein was born 1498, at Augsburg, in Germany; but that
his father, a painter too, came to Basel between 1504-8, probably at the invitation of the
magistrates of Basel, as they required a painter to decorate their newly-built council-hall.

Holbein gave early proofs of his aspiring talent. When fifteen years old, he exhibited an oil-painting,
which, though defective in colouring, raised high expectations by its clearness and softness
of execution. This painting is still to be seen in the public library at Basel, and bears the
date of 1513. Of the same year, a sketch, with the monogram HH, is extant, representing three
watchmen with halberds. His two brothers were also painters; only a few paintings are left
of the elder, Ambrose, and none of the younger brother Bruno; both died prematurely. In the
year 1520, Holbein was presented with the freedom of the town of Basel.

Switzerland held constant communications with Germany and the Netherlands, but less with Italy.
A number of painters lived at that time in Germany, whose names have not been recorded by any
German Vasari, and their master works have been long neglected. In Holbein's time Albrecht
Durer enjoyed the primary reputation. Martin Schoen had preceded him at Colmar, in Alsace;
Manuel painted at Bern, Hans Asper at Zurich, and at Basel itself there were other painters
besides Holbein. Half a century before him the Dance of Death had been painted, after the disaster
of a plague, on the walls of a church-yard at Basel.

The council-hall at Basel gave occupation to architects from 1508 till 1520. It is believed
that Holbein painted three of the walls, only one of which (hid behind old tapestry, and discovered
again in 1817) has escaped the ravages of time. It represents M. Curius Dentatus cooking his
dinner, whilst the Samnites offer silver plates with money. "The last Judgment," where a pope,
with priests and monks, sink into the flames of hell, is not the work of Holbein, but was done
in 1610, during good Protestant times.

A good number of stories are told of Holbein. Unable to pay his debts in a tavern, he discharged
the bill by decorating the walls with paintings of flowers. Another time, for a similar purpose,
he covered the walls all over with "the merry dance of peasants;" and in order to deceive one
of his employers, he painted his own legs beneath the high scaffolding, that the watchful citizen
should not suspect his having abandoned his work to carouse in wine-cellars. Here our biographer
gravely says, "a man of spirit could not be expected to sit quietly painting the whole day
long in the heat of the sun, or in the rain; if he saw a good friend go to the tavern, he felt
disposed to follow him." Holbein did not keep the best company; but in this he resembled Rembrandt,
who said, that when he wished to amuse himself, he avoided the company of the great, which
put a restraint upon him; "for pleasure," he adds, "consists in perfect liberty only." Holbein
no doubt felt a contempt for the great people of his time, as they did not understand much
about his art, which he valued above all things.

Holbein's wife, and he married early, was a perfect Xantippe, too shrewd to be despised, and
not handsome enough to be admired. In the library at Basel is a family picture of Holbein,
in which she is introduced, almost unconscious of the two children about her; but Holbein very
shrewdly forgot to paint himself there. But he took care of the interests of his family, and
obtained them a pension from the magistrates of Basel, during his stay in England. This pension
was paid for past services, and in order to induce him finally to fix his residence in Switzerland.

The absence of matrimonial felicity was probably an additional motive for Holbein to seek employment
as an itinerant painter. He visited several Swiss towns, but certainly never saw Luther and
Melancthon, so that the portraits of Luther and Melancthon exhibited in Italy, Germany, and
England, as works of Holbein, cannot be genuine; and it is very improbable that he should have
copied the works of Lucas Cranach, who several times painted the portraits of those lights
of the reformation. Erasmus was frequently painted by Holbein; and as those portraits were
sent as presents to the friends of Erasmus, Holbein's name became known all over Europe.

Holbein came to England in the year 1526, and Sir Thomas More wrote to Erasmus that he would
take care of him. Sir Thomas received him into his own house at Chelsea, and there Henry VIII.
saw him one day, when paying a visit to the former. He took him instantly into his service,
gave him apartments in the royal palace, and a salary of 30l. a-year. Holbein's long residence
in the house of Sir Thomas More had a good effect upon him; for although Erasmus describes
the women of England as "nymphae divinis vultibus, blandae, faciles," yet Holbein seems to
have resisted those temptations in London, which rendered his conduct at Basel so reprehensible.
Holbein twice revisited Switzerland, once in 1526, the second and last time in 1538: the zealots
had just destroyed all the images; and even some painters, infected with the spirit of the
age, had declared they would rather starve, than break the second commandment. In England the
same work of devastation took place; but Henry VIII., notwithstanding, gave Holbein abundance
of work, as he had to paint all his royal consorts in succession, besides a number of portraits
for English noblemen.

His sketches of heads, now existing at Kensington, of various people who lived at the court
of Henry VIII., and among them one of that monarch, are exquisite productions. Imitations of
the original drawings have been published by J. Chamberlaine, fol. Lond. 1792. One picture
of Holbein is supposed to be in Surgeons' Hall. Some wood-cuts to Cranmer's Catechism (1548)
were made by Holbein. Our biographer, who had never seen the work himself, was led by Walpole
[Anecdotes of Painting] to believe, that all the wood-cuts were from Holbein.

With respect to the famous "Dance of Death," the biographer tells us, what we have already
stated, that the painting on the wall of the church-yard at Basel is not the work of Holbein;
the costumes are of a time anterior to Holbein. There was also a "Dance of Death" painted on
the wall of a convent at Bern by Manuel, who lived a little before Holbein. Only on the supposition
that the "Dance of Death" at Basel was Holbein's work, could that of Bern be said to be the
first of its kind. But, on comparing the costumes, it appears again, that the "Dance of Death"
at Bern must have been painted subsequently to that at Basel. No "Dance of Death" of an earlier
date was known, until another was discovered on the wall of a convent of nuns at Klingenthal,
on the right bank of the Rhine, at Basel. This bears the date of 1312, and is therefore a whole
century prior to the other, which cannot have been painted before the year 1439. It has been
supposed, that the idea of the "Dance of Death" was taken from certain processions very much
in vogue during the middle ages; and it is singular enough, that up to this day, in funeral
processions in Italy, long white robes are used, which wholly cover the head, with only two
holes for the eyes. But the coincidence of another plague at Basel, which, about the year 1312,
destroyed above 11,000 people, renders it more than probable that the artist availed himself
of the impression which such a dreadful mortality must have made on the minds of all the surviving,
to represent how inexorable death drags to the grave, in terrible sport, rich and poor, high
and low, clergymen and laity.

On the authority of Nieuhoff, a Dutchman, who came over to England with William III., Mr. Douce
asserts, that Holbein had painted the "Dance of Death" on the walls of Whitehall. Borbonius
might then have had in mind this painting, when he mentioned the "Mors picta" of Holbein; but
three biographers of Holbein, Mander, Sandrart, and Patin, were in England before Whitehall
was destroyed by fire, and make no mention of this painting, although Mander speaks of other
paintings of Holbein, particularly the portrait of Henry VIII., that were preserved at Whitehall.
Mander states, that he also saw at Whitehall the portraits of Edward, Maria, and Elizabeth,
by Holbein, "die oock ter selver plaetse te sien zyn."

Sandrart, whose work was published in 1675, also mentions the paintings of Holbein at Whitehall.
Is it credible, that three travellers, two of whom were distinguished artists themselves, should
have been at Whitehall, and seen there the paintings of Holbein, without taking notice of the
"Dance of Death," if it had been in that place?

Holbein died of the plague in London, 1554.--Westminster Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CENTRAL MARKET, LEEDS.

As one of the most elegant and useful buildings of the important town of Leeds, and as characteristic
of the public spirit of its inhabitants,[2] the above engraving cannot fail to prove acceptable
to our readers; while it may serve as an excitement to similar exertions in other districts.

The Central Market, is erected on the site of the old post-office, at the north-east corner
of Duncan-street, the foundation stone of which was laid in 1824. The whole site was excavated,
and is divided into cellars, arched and groined, with a spacious area round the whole, for
the convenience of access to each, and lighted by powerful convex lenses from the interior
of the building. Over these is the principal building--an enclosed market-house, with twenty
shops round the exterior for butchers and others, and twenty others corresponding in size with
them, fronting the interior. The space within these, on the ground floor, is fitted up with
twenty single stands for fruit and vegetables. Three sides of the square form a spacious gallery,
commodiously fitted up with thirty-six stands of convenient dimensions, as a Bazaar. The interior
is lighted and ventilated by three rows of windows, one row on the Bazaar floor, and two rows
in the roof. The roof, the carpentry of which has been pronounced a master-piece, is supported
by twelve cast-iron columns and sixteen oak pillars, and is 34 ft. 6 in. high; the height from
the floor to the upper point of the ceiling being 54 ft. 4 in. The size within the walls is
138 ft. by 103 ft. The principal entrance is at the south front from Duncan-street, on each
side of which are three large shops fronting the street, with a suite of six offices above.
Over this entrance is an entablature richly embellished with fine masonry, and supported with
two Ionic columns, and two pilasters or antaes, 30 ft. high. In the centre of the front, as
well as within the market, it is intended to place a clock. The outer boundary of the market,
which forms three sides of the square, and is separated from the enclosed market by a carriage
road, consists of twenty-five shops devoted exclusively to butchers and fishmongers. At the
south-west corner of these is an hotel; at the south-east corner, near Call-lane, are two shops,
with offices above; and, in another part, a house for the clerk of the market. There are four
pumps on the premises, and the floor of the interior is so contrived and fitted up with proper
drains, that it can be washed down at pleasure. The whole will be lighted with gas.

The architect of the Central Market is Francis Goodwin, Esq., and it is but justice to say,
that it is highly creditable to his taste and skill. The front is of the Grecian order, and
perhaps the largest piece of masonry in the county of York, with the fewest observable joints.
It is expected to prove an advantageous investment.

    [2] Too much praise cannot be conferred on this and similar instances
        of provincial improvement; while it is much to be regretted
        that such praise cannot be extended to the metropolis of
        England; for, strange to say, LONDON is still without a
        market-place suitable to its commercial consequence. Hence,
        Smithfield market is almost a public nuisance, while its extensive
        business is settled in public-houses in the neighbourhood; and the
        hay market, held in the fine broad street of that name, but ill
        accords with the courtly vicinity of Pall Mall and St. James's.
        It is, however, to fruit and vegetable markets that this
        observation is particularly applicable: for instance, what a
        miserable scene is the area of Covent Garden market. The
        non-completion of the piazza square is much to be lamented, while
        splendid streets and towns are erecting on every side of the
        metropolis. How unworthy, too, is the market, of association with
        Inigo Jones's noble Tuscan church of St. Paul, "the handsomest
        barn in Europe." To quote Sterne, we must say "they manage these
        things better in France," where the halles, or markets are among
        the noblest of the public buildings. Neither can any Englishman,
        who has seen the markets of Paris, but regret the absence of
        fountains from the markets of London. They are among the most
        tasteful embellishments of Paris, and their presence in the
        markets cannot be too much admired. Water is, unquestionably, the
        most salutary and effective cleanser of vegetable filth which is
        necessarily generated on the sites of markets; but in London its
        useful introduction is limited to a few pumps, and its ornamental
        to one or two solitary jets d'eau in almost unfrequented
        places. It should be added, that in Southwark, an extensive and
        commodious market-place is just completed, and the tolls are
        proportionally increasing. A similar improvement is much wanted in
        Covent Garden, by which means many of the evils of that spot would
        be abated, and instead of seeing Nature's choicest productions
        huddled together, and being ourselves tortured in the scramble and
        confusion of a crowd, we might then range through the avenues of
        Covent Garden with all the comfort which our forefathers were wont
        to enjoy on this spot, or certainly with comparative ease.--ED.

       *        *        *        *        *

THE SELECTOR;

AND

LITERARY NOTICES OF

NEW WORKS. The mania of conquest had reversed the state of things in Europe; we, the eldest
born of liberty and independence, were spilling our blood in the service of royal passions
against the cause of nations, and outraged nations were turning round upon us, more terrible
from being armed with the principles which we had forsaken.

At times, this immense mass of passions which he was accumulating against him, this multitude
of avenging arms ready to be raised, filled his ambitious spirit with involuntary apprehension.
Looking around him, he was alarmed to find himself solitary, and conceived the idea of strengthening
his power by moderating it. Then it was that he thought of creating an hereditary peerage,
and reconstructing his monarchy on more secure foundations. But Napoleon saw without illusion
to the bottom of things.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROBINSON CRUSOES.

