SIR,--Have you read Lord WOLSELEY's article in this month's Harper? He advises a higher rate
of pay for the rank and file of the British Army? Verbum sap. You understand. It is clear what
you must do with your surplus. Ensure TOMMY ATKINS six-and-six-pence a day, and you will have
every Regiment in the Service thronged with real live Gentlemen. This is what is wanted (so
I gather from Lord W.'s article) to make the British Army, if not the most costly, at least
the most respectable in the world. Come, Sir, do not make it necessary that you should be reminded
a second time of your plain and obvious duty by

  A SANGUINE AND EXPECTANT PRIVATE.

SIR,--There can be no doubt in regard to the proper destination of those surplus millions,
the fitting disposition of which, I am informed, is involving you in no little perplexity.
They seem in a special manner to furnish the legitimate answer to the almost universal cry,
now going forth, for "Free Education." Here then is your opportunity. And it is a magnificent
one. Your surplus will enable a wise and paternal Government to give not merely education,
free of cost, to every child in the three kingdoms, but will supply it with ample means to
infuse the very highest culture attainable into the very dregs of the population. Spanish,
Italian, German, Russian, French, Chinese, together with riding, dancing, painting in oil colours,
hydrostatics, and the elements of Court etiquette, will, henceforth, comprise the curriculum
of the veriest gutter-child.

Can you, Sir, contemplate such a brilliant, such a soul-stirring prospect unmoved? That you
cannot, and will at once hand over your useful millions for the purpose of carrying into effect
the above modest but magnificent scheme, is the firm belief of yours suggestively,

  THE LATEST TEACHER OF THE YOUNG IDEA.

       *       *       *       *       *

"IT SAYS 'ERE, AS YOUR OLD BOSS, COLONEL M'WHUSKEY, HAS BEEN TOOK ILL."--"AH! SO I 'ERD!"--"RUSSIAN
EPIDEMIC?"--"NO,--SCOTCH."

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

"Bring me my Scotch Dictionary!" cried the Baron. "Alas, my Lord!" was the answer of the faithful
servitor, "there is none such here." "I'fakins!" quoth the Baron, "then will I buckle to and
read A Window in Thrums without it, even though I break all my teeth and nigh choke myself,
as indeed, I have well-nigh done in my gallant attempt to master the first two chapters." So
I, the Baron, being convalescent and having a few hours to spare, lay me down and read, and
read, and read, and stumbled over the Scotch words and phrases, until I hit on the plan of
reading it aloud to two or three other convalescents; just to see how they would like it. And
as I read aloud, this book,--which on account of its apparent difficulty, and by reason of
my education having been neglected, "lang syne," in respect to the Scotch language, an intimate
knowledge of which I have not yet acquired "the noo,"--it gained my affection gradually, steadily,
and increasingly. Though I could not have translated individual words and phrases, yet I instinctively
understood them, and was delighted with the homely simplicity of the style, the keen observation,
the shrewd wit, and the gentle pathos of A Window in Thrums. The BARON DE BOOK-WORMS is grateful
to Mr. J. M. BARRIE; and when an opportunity is offered him, he is seriously thinking of re-reading
some of the Scotchiest of Sir WALTER SCOTT'S Novels, and having a "Nicht or twa wi' ROBBIE BURNS."

I await the Reminiscences of Mr. MONTAGU WILLIAMS, Q.C. and P.M., with considerable interest.

