Then, for the first time in modern history, numbers of "spies"  and "informers" were paid for
the service of English ministers  of state. Not only did the cities of England and Ireland,
harbor  cities chiefly, swarm with them, but they covered the whole  country; they were to
be found everywhere: around the humble  dwelling of the peasant and the artisan, in the streets
and on  the highways, inspecting every stranger who might be a friar or  monk in disguise.
They spread through the whole European  Continent--along the coast and in the interior of France
and  Belgium, Italy and Spain, in the churches, convents, and  colleges, even in the courts
of princes, and, as we have seen in  the case of Dr. Hurley, in the very halls of the Vatican.
The  English state papers have disclosed their secret, and the whole  history is now before us. 	

To support this army of spies and informers, the soldiers of  that other army of England, who
were employed either in keeping  England under the yoke or in crushing freedom and religion
out  of Ireland, did not disdain to execute the orders which  converted them into policemen
and sbirri. And it may be said, to  their credit, that they executed those orders with a ferocious
alacrity unequalled in the annals of military life in other  countries. If, during the most
fearful commotions in France, the  army has been employed for a similar purpose, it must be
acknowledged that, as far as the troops were concerned, they  performed their unwelcome task
with reluctance, and softened  down, at least, their execution, by considerate manners and
respectful demeanor. But these soldiers of Elizabeth showed  themselves, from first to last,
full of ferocity. They generally  went far beyond the letter of their orders; they took an
inhuman  delight in adding insult to injury, uniting in their persons the  double character
of preservers of public order and ruffianly  executioners of innocent victims. Many and many
a record of  their barbarity is kept to this day. We add a few, only to  justify our necessarily
severe language:

"The Rev. Thaddeus Donald and John Hanly received their martyr's  crown on the 10th of August,
1580. They had long labored among  the suffering faithful along the southwestern coast of Ireland.
When the convent of Bantry was seized by the English troops,  these holy men received their
wished-for crown of martyrdom.  Being conducted to a high rock impending over the sea, they
were  tied back to back, and precipitated into the waves beneath."

"In the convent of Enniscorthy, Thaddeus O'Meran, father- guardian of the convent, Felix O'Hara,
and Henry Layhode, under  the government of Henry Wallop, Viceroy of Ireland, were taken  prisoners
by the soldiers, for five days tortured in various  ways, and then slain."

"Rev. Donatus O'Riedy, of Connaught, and parish priest of  Coolrah, when the soldiers of Elizabeth
rushed into the village,  sought refuge in the church; but in vain, for he was there  hanged
near the high altar, and afterward pierced with swords,  12th of June, 1582."

"While Drury was lord-deputy, about 1577, Fergal Ward, a  Franciscan, . . . fell into the hands
of the soldiery, and,  being scourged with great barbarity, was hanged from the  branches of
a tree with the cincture of his own religious habit."

In order to find a parallel to atrocities such as these, we must  go back to the record of
some of the sufferings of the early  martyrs--St. Ignatius of Antioch, for instance, who wrote
of the  guards appointed to conduct him to Italy: "From Syria as far as  Rome, I had to fight
with wild beasts, on sea and on land, tied  night and day to a pack of ten leopards, that is
to say, ten  soldiers who kept me, and were the more ferocious the more I  tried to be kind
to them."

Instances of such extreme cruelty are rare, even in the Acts of  the early martyrs, but they
meet us every moment in the memoirs  of the days of Elizabeth. Both the police-spies and the
soldier- police were animated with the rage and fury which must have  possessed the soul of
the queen herself; for, after all, the  cruelty practised in her reign, and mostly under her
orders, was  not necessary in order to secure her throne to her, during life;  and, as she
could hope for no posterity of her own, it was not  the desire of retaining the crown to her
children which could  excuse so much bloodshed and suffering. She evidently followed  the promptings
of a cruel heart in those atrocious measures  which constitute the feature of the home policy
of her reign.  The persecution which raged incessantly throughout her long  career, in Ireland
and England, is surely one of the most bloody  in the annals of the Catholic Church.

CHAPTER X.

ENGLAND PREPARED FOR THE RECEPTION OF PROTESTANTISM--IRELAND NOT.

It cost Elizabeth the greater part of her reign in time, and all  the growing resources of
a united England in material, to  establish her spiritual supremacy in Ireland; and yet, when,
at  her death, Mountjoy received orders to conclude peace on  honorable terms with the Ulster
chieftains, her darling policy  was abandoned; and failure, in fact, confessed.

On the 30th of March, 1603, Hugh O'Neill and Mountjoy met by  appointment at Mellifont Abbey,
where the terms of peace were  exchanged. O'Neill, having declared his submission, was granted
amnesty for the past, restored to his rank, notwithstanding his  attainder and outlawry, and
reinstated in his dignity of Earl of  Tyrone. Himself and his people were to enjoy the "full
and free  exercise of their religion;" new letters-patent were issued  restoring to him and
other northern chieftains almost the whole  of the lands occupied by their respective clans.

O'Neill, on his part, was to renounce forever his title of  "O'Neill," and allow English law
to prevail in his territory.

How this last condition could agree with the full and free  exercise of the Catholic religion,
the treaty did not explain;  but it is evident that the new acts of Parliament respecting 
religion were not to be included in the English law admitted by  the Ulster chiefs.

Meanwhile, the descendants of Strongbow's companions had been  completely subdued in the south,
Munster having been devastated,  and the Geraldines utterly destroyed. Yet, even there,  Protestantism
was not acknowledged by such of the inhabitants as  were left.

It may be well to compare here the different results which  attended the declaration of the
queen's supremacy in England and  Ireland:

At the commencement of Elizabeth's reign, England was still,  outwardly at least, as Catholic
as Ireland. Henry VIII. had only  aimed at starting a schism; the Protestantism established
under  Edward had been completely swept away during Mary's short reign.  Could Elizabeth only
have hoped to be acknowledged queen by the  Pope, there can be little doubt that, even for
political motives, she would have refrained from disturbing the peace of the  country for the
sake of introducing heresy. Religion was nothing  to her--the crown every thing.

It was not so easy a matter for her to establish heresy as for  Henry to introduce schism.
All the bishops of Henry's reign,  with the exception of Fisher, had renounced their allegiance
to  Rome, in order to please the sovereign; all the bishops of  Mary's nomination remained
faithful to Rome; and so difficult  was it to find somebody who should consecrate the new prelates
created by Elizabeth, that Catholic writers have, we believe,  shown beyond question that no
one of the intruding prelates was  really consecrated.

Nevertheless, at the end of Elizabeth's reign, there is no doubt  that the English people,
with a few individual exceptions, were  Protestant; and Protestants they have ever since remained.

In Dr. Madden's "History of the Penal Laws," we read "Father  Campian was betrayed by one of
Walsingham's spies, George Eliot,  and found secreted in the house of Mr. Yates, of Lyford,
in  Berkshire, along with two other priests, Messrs. Ford and  Collington. Eliot and his officers
made a show of their  prisoners to the multitude, and the sight of the priests in the  hands
of the constables was a matter of mockery to the unwise  multitude. This was a frequent occurrence
in conveying captured  priests from one jail to another, or from London to Oxford, or  vice
versa, and it would seem, instead of finding sympathy from  the populace, they met with contumely,
insult, and sometimes  even brutal violence. This is singular, and not easily accounted  for;
of the fact, there can be no doubt."

Dr. Madden probably considered that, within a few years after  the change of religion, the
English people ought to have shown  themselves as firm Catholics as did the Irish. But the
explanation of the contumely and violence is easy: it was an  English and not an Irish populace.
The first had altogether  forgotten the faith of their childhood, the second could not be 
brought to forsake it. The difficulty, in accounting for the  difference between them, is in
getting at its true cause; and to  us it seems that one of the chief causes was the difference
of  race.

The English upper classes, as a whole, were utterly indifferent  to religion; the one thing
which affected them, soul and body,  was their temporal interests, and, to judge by their ready
acquiescence in all the changes set forth at the commencement of  the last chapter, they would
as soon have turned Mussulmen as  Calvinists. The lower classes, at first merely passive, became
afterward possessed by a genuine fanaticism for the new creed  established by the Thirty-nine
Articles; so that, from that  period until quite recently--and the spirit still lives--an 
English mob was always ready to demolish Catholic chapels, and  establishments of any kind,
wherever the piety of a few had  succeeded in erecting such, however quietly.

It is evident from the facts mentioned that, prior even to that  extraordinary religious revolution
called the Reformation, the  Catholic faith did not possess a firm hold upon the English mind
and heart, whatever may have been the case in previous ages. It  is clear that even "the people"
in England were not ready to  submit to any sacrifice for the sake of their religion.

There is small doubt that Elizabeth foresaw this, and expected  but little opposition on the
part of the English nobility and  people to the changes she purposed effecting. Had she imagined
that the nation would have been ready to submit to any sacrifice  rather than surrender their
religion, she would at least have  been more cautious in the promulgation of her measures,
even  though she had determined to sever her kingdom from Rome. She  might have rested content
with the schism introduced by her  father, and this indeed would have sufficed for the carrying
out  of her political schemes.

