'I find in you,' continued the theologian with benevolence, 'much to tolerate, much even to
admire. I regret that, formerly, some of my predecessors may have been led, by your aggressive
and turbulent spirit, to form unnecessarily harsh judgments of your character, and put unnecessarily
tight thumbscrews on your thumbs; but as for me, I desire to win you by sympathy and affection
and physico-theological afternoon parties, not to coerce you by vituperation. Your eye of Reason,
as I have often observed, is already sufficiently developed; supplement it with the eye of
Faith, and you will be quite complete. It will then only remain for you to learn which objects
it is necessary to view with which eye, and carefully to close the other. This takes a little
practice (which must not be attempted in Society), but I am sure that a person of your attainments
will easily master the difficulty. We will then joyfully receive you into our ranks. No sacrifice
on your part will be required; you will retain the old distinction of F.R.S., of which you
have always been justly proud; but we shall take the liberty of conferring upon you the additional
privilege of the honorary title of D.D.'

The professor uttered a brief but trenchant observation, on which the theologian was about
to launch down a reply, less brief but equally trenchant. But the poet, as his fate would have
it, struck in, in the capacity of a lightning conductor, and succeeded in turning the wrath
of both combatants upon his own devoted head.

'If you must quarrel,' he cried, 'pray don't quarrel here. You would fight on the very peaks
of Parnassus. I can't think of a word that will rhyme except "design." Stop, now I have it:

'Bright messenger of the Celestial Nine, Now in translucent ambience entombed.'

Celestial Nine is commonplace, but what can a man do in this region of trivial souls? Soar,
my mind! What does "ambience" mean, by the way? Never mind, if the Sublime is unfettered by
literal meaning, all the better for the Sublime!'

At this the divine and the philosopher turned upon him together, as they were wont to do every
now and then.

'This laxity of terms,' said the professor, 'is unscientific and unpractical.'

'I am a poet,' said the poet, 'I bow to no narrow machinery of definitions. Words have a gemlike
beauty and colour of their own. They are not merely the signs of ideas--of thoughts.'

'I wish they were!' groaned the professor. 'They are with us.'

'The idea,' continued the poet, 'must conform to the word, when the word honours the idea by
making use of it. What care I for the conventional, the threadbare significance? My heart recognises,
through the outer vestment of apparent insanity, the inner adaptability. Soar, my mind!'

'And in this way,' said the professor sternly, 'ignoring the great principles of classification
and generalisation, you let a chaos of disordered ideas abroad upon the universe, destroying
all method and definite arrangement and retarding the great progress of Evolution!'

'A jewel-like word, a transfigured phrase,' replied the poet, 'is worth all your scientific
dictionaries and logic threshing-machines put together. Ruskin was in error. He tells us that
Milton always meant what he said, and said exactly what he meant.

'This had been an ignoble exactitude. How can a man whose words are unbounded confine himself
within the limits of an intellectual bound?

How can he, that is to say, know exactly what he means, in words, or mean exactly what, to
souls less gloriously chaotic, his words appear to express? I have always felt this an insuperable
difficulty.'

'I have no doubt of it,' said the professor ironically. 'Now,' he went on, turning to the theologian,
'you see what comes of having too much soul. It is impossible but that such fixed attention
to any one organ should prove injurious, even if the organ is not there. You really have a
great deal to answer for, in encouraging this kind of monomania.'

'Not a bit of it,' said the theologian indignantly. 'It comes of not having soul enough, or
of allowing the sway the soul should exercise to fall upon the feeble sceptre of imagination.
If our misguided young friend had been thoroughly grounded in Paley's Evidences and scientific
primers--for these should never be separated--do you think we should have heard anything about
his chaotic soul? Not a bit of it. It would all have been as clear as an opera-glass, or as
Mr. Joseph Cook's theory of Solar Light. Why didn't his parents give him my "Mathematical Exposition
of Orthodoxy for Children," or my "The Theology of Euclid," on his birthdays, instead of Hans
Andersen's "Fairy Tales" and the "Tales from the Norse?" It was very remiss of them.'

'On the contrary,' said the professor, 'I should have recommended the entire elimination of
doctrinal matter from his studies. I should have guided him to a thorough investigation of
the principle of all the Natural Sciences, with especial devotion to one single branch, as
Botany or Conchology, and an entire mastery of its terminology I should have urged our gifted
but destitute of all scientific method friend to the observation and definition of objective
phenomena, rather than to subjective analysis, and turned his reflections--'

'Flow, my words!' said the poet dreamily. 'Soar, my mind!'

He had flung himself into the solitary armchair in a graceful and distraught pose, and with
half-closed eyes had fallen into a reverie. The divine and the professor stood and gazed at
him despondently.

'Such,' said the divine, 'are the consequences of the lack of sound ethical and eclectic principles
in our day and generation!'

'Such,' said the professor, 'are the pernicious results of a classical training, the absence
of a spirit of scientific research and a broad and philosophical mental culture.'

Those readers who have not yet perused the poet's sonnet may recognise it, of course, by the
first line:

     'Fair denizen of deathless ether, doomed.'

It attracted a good deal of attention at the time. The public were informed, in the 'Athæenum,'
that the poet was engaged on a sonnet, and the literary world was excited, but, not having
the key, could not make out what on earth it meant. Meanwhile the professor's paper in 'Nature,'
which appeared in the course of the same week, being written from a wholly different standpoint,
did not tend to elucidate the mystery. The latter merely described the locality in which the
fairy, or butterfly, as the professor called it, was found, and the circumstances of its capture
and escape, with such an account of its manifold peculiarities, and the reasons to suppose
it an entirely new genus, that Epping Forest was as much haunted for the next two or three
months by naturalists on the watch, as by 'Arries making holiday. Our professor himself visited
the fairy's pond several times, in the company of the poet, with whom he soon patched up a
reconciliation. But Queen Mab, in the meantime, had taken her departure.

The professor also sent to the 'Spectator' an account of the Origin of Religion, as developed
by his little boy, under his very eyes. But the editor thought, not unnaturally, that it was
only the professor's fun, and declined to publish it, preferring an essay on the Political
Rights of the Domesticated Cat.

CHAPTER V. -- ST. GEORGE FOR MERRY ENGLAND

     'Geese are swans, and swans are geese,'
     M. Arnold.

At first Mab was so overwhelmed at the nature of her reception by Science and Theology, that
she meditated an immediate return to Polynesia; but the birds implored her so pathetically
to stay longer, that she yielded, and went with the owl into Surrey. She had seen enough of
Epping Forest.

