“In the Fiji islands, where half a century ago the favorite dish of food was human flesh, there
are at present eight hundred and forty-one chapels, and two hundred and ninety-one other places
where preaching is held, with fifty-eight missionaries busily engaged in preparing the way
for others. The membership numbers twenty-three thousand two hundred and seventy-four persons.”
The Evangelist of January 29, 1880. It is possible that some infidel might have been literally
eaten up had it not been for the influence of the Bible. “According to the accounts of some
of the older chiefs, whom we may believe or not as we like, there was once a time when cannibalism
did not exist. Many years ago some strangers from a distant land were blown upon the shores
of Fiji, and received hospitably by the islanders, who incorporated them into their own tribes,
and made much of them. But, in process of time, these people became too powerful, killed the
Fijian chiefs, took their wives and property, and usurped their office.”

In the emergency the people consulted the priests, who said that the Fijians had brought their
misfortunes upon themselves. They had allowed strangers to live, whereas “Fiji for the Fijians”
was the golden rule, and from that time every male stranger was to be killed and eaten, and
every woman taken as a wife. The only people free from this law were the Tongans.

The state of the Fijians is wonderfully changed—even an American infidel may now visit those
people without being flayed and roasted and devoured.

“The Samoan islands have been entirely christianized. Out of a population of forty thousand,
thirty-five thousand are connected with Christian churches.

“In 1830 the native Christians in India, Burmah, and North and South Ceylon numbered 57,000.
Last October there were 460,000. Facts similar in character might be given of Madagascar, South
Africa and Japan.” Evangelist. What a curse (?) the Bible is to the poor heathen. It robs them
of their “long-pig,” human flesh, as well as their cruel, murderous habits, and curses them
(?) with virtue and the hope of “HEAVEN.”

ARE WE SIMPLY ANIMALS?

What is man? The materialist says, “He is the highest order of the animal kingdom, or an animal
gifted with intelligence.” If such be true, it may be said with equal propriety, that animals
are men without reason. Are they? Does manhood consist in mere physical form? Can you find
it in simple physical nature? Man holds many things in his physical nature in common with the
animal; but is he, on this account, to be considered as a mere animal? There are plants that
seem to form a bridge over the chasm lying between the vegetable and animal kingdoms. Are those
plants animals without sensation? Why not? What is the logical and scientific difference between
saying plants, which make the nearest approach to the animal are animals without sensation,
and saying animals are men without intelligence? Let it be understood at all times, that if
man is simply an animal endowed with the gift of reason, an animal may be simply a vegetable
endowed with the gift of sensation. “The bodies of mere animals are clothed with scales, feathers,
fur, wool or bristles, which interpose between the skin and the elements that surround and
affect the living animal.” All these insensible protectors “ally animals more closely to the
nature of vegetables.”

“The body of a human being has a beautiful, thin, highly sensitive skin, which is not covered
with an insensitive, lifeless veil.” Man’s body is in noble contrast with all mere animals.
It is so formed that its natural position is erect. “The eyes are in front; the ligaments of
the neck are not capable of supporting, for any considerable length of time, the head when
hanging down; the horizontal position would force the blood to the head so violently that stupor
would be the result. The mouth serves the mind as well as the body itself. According to the
most critical calculation, the muscles of the mouth are so movable that it may pronounce fifteen
hundred letters.” What a wonderful musical instrument.

The mouth of the mere animal serves only physical purposes.

Man turns his head from right to left, from earth to sky, from the slimy trail of the crustacean
in the ocean’s bottom to the contemplation of the innumerable stars in the heavens. The human
body was created for the mind; its structure is correlated with mind. The animal has a sentient
life; man an intelligent, reasoning nature.

When animals are infuriated and trample beneath their feet everything that lies in their way,
we do not say they are insane, but mad. “Man is an intelligent spirit,” or mind, “served by
an organism.” We know that mind exists by our consciousness of that which passes within us.
The propriety of the sayings of Descartes, “I think, therefore I am,” rests upon the consciousness
that we are thinking beings. This intelligence is not obtained by the exercise of any of the
senses. It does not depend upon external surroundings. Its existence is a fact of consciousness,
of certain knowledge, and hence a fact in mental science.

We are continually conscious of the existence of the mind, which makes its own operations the
object of its own thought; that it should have no existence is a contradiction in language.

Experience teaches us that the materialistic theory of the existence of the mind is utterly
false. In an act of perception I distinguish the pen in my hand, and the hand itself, from
my mind which perceives them. This distinction is a fact of the faculty of perception—a particular
fact of a particular faculty. But the general fact of a general distinction of which this is
only a special case, is the distinction of the I and not I, which belongs to the consciousness
as the general faculty. He who denies the contrast between mind-knowing and matter-known is
dishonest, for it is a fact of consciousness, and such can not be honestly denied. The facts
given in consciousness itself can not be honestly doubted, much less denied.

Materialists have claimed that mind is simply the result of the molecular action of the brain.
This theory is as unreal as Banquo’s ghost—it will not bear a moment’s investigation. It is
simply confounding the action of the mind upon the brain with the mind itself. Every effect
must have a cause. When I make a special mental effort what is the cause lying behind the effort?
Is it the molecular action of the brain? I will to make the effort, and do it. Then will power
lies behind brain action. But power is a manifest energy; there is something lying behind it
to which it belongs as an attribute; what is it? Answer, will. But, where there is a will there
must of a necessity be that which wills. What is it that wills to make a special mental effort—that
lies away back “behind the throne” and controls the helm? It is evidently the I, myself, the
“inner man,” the spirit. On one occasion, when some of the disciples of the Nazarene were sleepy,
Jesus said to them, “The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.” It is the spirit
that wills to make a special mental effort. Here is the “font” of all our ideas. Will, as an
effect, belongs to the spirit of man, as the cause lying behind. Beyond this no man can trace
this subject, short of crossing over from the spirit of man to the invisible Father of spirits.
The spirit of man is a wonderful intelligence! “The body without the spirit is dead, being
alone.” When we analyze the physical structure back to the germ and sperm-cells we are brought
face to face with the invisible builder. Call it what you may, it still remains the same invisible
architect, which, being matter’s master, built the organism. We live, and breathe; we die,
and cease breathing. Dead bodies do not breathe. Therefore, life lies behind breath, and spirit
behind life. So life and breath are both effects, which find their ultimate or cause in spirit.
This at once sets aside all that materialists have said in order to show that spirit and breath
are one and the same. The original term, translated by the term spirit has, in its history,
away back in the past, a physical currency. The old-fashioned materialist or “soul-sleeper”
finds his fort in this fact. His entire aim is to get the people back to an old and obsolete
currency of the term “pneuma.” If we lay aside words which were used in a physical sense, in
times gone by, we will not have many words to express the ideas embraced in mental science.
In ancient times “pneuma” signified both mind and wind, or air. In later times it lost its
physical currency, and no longer signifies, in its general currency, breath or air. The adjective,
“pneumatikos,” is never used in a physical sense. It came into use too late.

We have many examples of old meanings passing away from words. “Sapientia,” in Latin originally
meant only the power of tasting. At present it means wisdom, prudence, discretion, discernment,
good sense, knowledge, practical wisdom, philosophy, calmness, patience. The word “sagacitas,”
originally meant only the faculty of scenting, now it means the power of seeing or perceiving
anything easily. In old literature we may read of the sagacity of dogs; keenness of scent.
But it is now sharpness of wit; keenness of perception, subtilty, shrewdness, acuteness, penetration,
ingenuity. The terms, “attentio,” “intentio,” “comprehensio,” “apprehensio,” “penetratio,”
and understanding are all just so many bodily actions transferred to the expression of mental
energies. There is just the same reason for giving to all these terms their old, obsolete,
physical currency that there is for giving to pneuma, or spirit, the old obsolete currency
of wind or air. You must ever remember that it is the business of lexicographers in giving
the history of words, to set before you the first as well as the latest use of terms. In strict
harmony with all this Greenfield gives “pneuma” thus:

1. Wind, air in motion, breathing, breath, expiration, respiration, spirit, i. e. the human
soul, that is, the vital principle in man, life. Matthew xxvii, 50; Rev. xiii, 15.

2. Of the rational soul, mind, that principle in man which thinks, feels, desires, and wills.
Matthew v, 3, 26, 41.

3. Of the human soul after its departure from the body, a spirit, soul. Acts xxiii, 8, 9; Hebrews
xii, 23.

4. Spc. Spirit, that is, temper, disposition, affections, feelings, inclination, qualities of mind.

5. Construed with “mou” and “sou” (I and thou), it forms a periphrasis for the corresponding
personal pronoun. Mark ii, 8; Luke i, 47. A spirit, that is, A SIMPLE, SPIRITUAL, INCORPOREAL,
INTELLIGENT BEING. Spoken of God. John iv, 24. Of angels. Hebrews i, 14. Of evil spirits, Matthew
viii, 16; Mark ix, 20. A divine spirit, spoken of the spiritual nature of Christ. 1 Corinthians
xv, 45; 1 Peter iii, 18. Of the Holy Spirit. Matthew iii, 16-28; John xv, 26; Acts i, 8; Romans
ix, 1.

Robinson, in his Lexicon, sums up the history of its use thus:

1. Pneuma, from pneo, to breathe. A breathing, breath.

1. Of the mouth or nostrils, a breathing, blast. The destroying power of God. Isaiah xi, 4;
Psalm xxxiii, 6. The breath. Revelations xi, 11. “Breath of life.” Genesis vi, 17; vii, 15-22.

2. Breath of air. Air in motion, a breeze, blast, the wind.

3. The spirit of man, that is, the vital spirit, life, soul.

