Amongst men of thought and feeling there is noticeable revulsion from the supercilious attitude
that used not to be uncommon toward the little peoples of the world. It begins to be recognised
that it is quite possible that even the smallest of the little peoples may have some contribution
to make to the welfare and progress of the human race. What is the Boy Scout movement that
is sweeping the country, to the enormous benefit of the rising generation, but the incorporating
into the nurture of our youth of the things that were the nurture of the Indian youth; that
are a large part of the nurture of the Alaskan Indian youth to-day? And the camp-fire clubs
and woodcraft associations and the whole trend to the life of the open recognise that the Indian
had developed a technique of wilderness life deserving of preservation for its value to the
white man. While as for the Esquimaux, the author never sees the extraordinary prevalence amongst
them of the art of graphic delineation displayed in bold etchings of incidents of the chase
upon their implements and weapons (though not upon the articles made by the dozen for the curio-venders
at Nome and Saint Michael) without dreaming that some day an artist will come from out that
singular and most interesting people who shall teach the world something new about art.

Whatever the future may hold for the interior of Alaska, the author is convinced that its population
will derive very largely from the present native stocks, and this alone would justify any efforts
to prevent further inroads upon their health and vitality.

        April, 1916.

CONTENTS

  CHAPTER                                                 PAGE

        PREFACE                                            vii

     I. FAIRBANKS TO THE CHANDALAR THROUGH CIRCLE
        CITY AND FORT YUKON                                  3

    II. CHANDALAR VILLAGE TO BETTLES, COLDFOOT, AND
        THE KOYUKUK                                         34

   III. BETTLES TO THE PACIFIC--THE ALATNA, KOBUK
        PORTAGE, KOBUK VILLAGE, KOTZEBUE SOUND              63

    IV. THE SEWARD PENINSULA--CANDLE CREEK, COUNCIL,
        AND NOME                                           102

     V. NOME TO FAIRBANKS--NORTON SOUND--THE KALTAG
        PORTAGE--NULATO--UP THE YUKON TO TANANA            125

    VI. THE "FIRST ICE"--AN AUTUMN ADVENTURE ON THE
        KOYUKUK                                            157

   VII. THE KOYUKUK TO THE YUKON AND TO TANANA--CHRISTMAS
        HOLIDAYS AT SAINT JOHN'S-IN-THE-WILDERNESS         188

  VIII. UP THE YUKON TO RAMPART AND ACROSS COUNTRY
        TO THE TANANA--ALASKAN AGRICULTURE--THE
        GOOD DOG NANOOK--MISS FARTHING'S BOYS AT
        NENANA--CHENA AND FAIRBANKS                        219

    IX. TANANA CROSSING TO FORTYMILE AND DOWN THE
        YUKON--A PATRIARCHAL CHIEF--SWARMING
        CARIBOU--EAGLE AND FORT EGBERT--CIRCLE
        CITY AND FORT YUKON                                251

     X. FROM THE TANANA RIVER TO THE KUSKOKWIM--THENCE
        TO THE IDITAROD MINING CAMP--THENCE
        TO THE YUKON, AND UP THAT RIVER
        TO FORT YUKON                                      294

    XI. THE NATIVES OF ALASKA                              348

   XII. PHOTOGRAPHY IN THE ARCTIC                          371

  XIII. THE NORTHERN LIGHTS                                380

   XIV. THE ALASKAN DOGS                                   392

        INDEX                                              413

ILLUSTRATIONS

  Hudson Stuck (photogravure)                        Frontispiece

                                                          FACING PAGE

  Sunrise on the Chandalar-Koyukuk portage                         36

  Coldfoot on the Koyukuk                                          37

  The upper Koyukuk                                                50

  The barren shores of Kotzebue Sound                              51

  Gold-mining at Nome                                             122

  Pulling the Pelican out with a "Spanish windlass"             123

  The start over the "first ice"                                  164

  "Rough going"                                                   165

  Arthur and Doctor Burke                                         178

  Saint John's-in-the-Wilderness, Allakaket, Koyukuk River        179

  The double interpretation at the Allakaket                      186

  The wind-swept Yukon within the ramparts                        187

  A pleasant woodland trail                                       256

  An Alaskan chief and his henchman                               257

  The Tanana crossing                                             270

  Good going on the Yukon                                         271

  "A portage that comes so finely down to the Yukon that
  there is pleasure in anticipating the view it affords"          290

  Fort Yukon                                                      291

  The rough breaking in of Doctor Loomis, camped on the mail
  trail at 50° below zero, unable to reach a road-house for
  the deep snow                                                   296

  Esquimaux of the upper Kuskokwim                                297

  "The 'summit' is high above timber-line and the trail
  pursues a hogback ridge for a mile and a half at the summit
  level"                                                          324

  A street in Iditarod City                                       325

  The end of the portage trail                                    334

  Rough ice on the Yukon                                          335

  A docile folk, eager for instruction                            350

  The mission type                                                351

  Wild and shy                                                    351

  The native communicant                                          360

  Raw material                                                    360

  An Esquimau youth                                               361

  A half-breed Indian                                             361

  An aged couple                                                  366

  Football at the Allakaket, exposure 1-1000 second, April,
  after a new light snowfall                                      367

  The sun dogs                                                    388

  "Tan," of mixed breed                                           389

  "Muk," a pure malamute                                          389

  Map of the interior of Alaska showing journeys described
  in this book                                     At end of volume

TEN THOUSAND MILES WITH A DOG SLED

AUTHOR'S NOTE

Three fundamental facts are to be borne constantly in mind by those who would form any intelligent
conception of the Territory of Alaska.

(1) Its area of approximately 590,000 square miles makes it two and a half times as large as
the State of Texas.

(2) But it is not, like Texas, one homogeneous body of land; it is not, in any geographical
sense, one country at all. "Sweeping in a great arc over sixteen degrees of latitude and fifty-eight
degrees of longitude," it is no less than four, and some might say five, different countries,
differing from one another in almost every way that one country can differ from another: in
climate, in population, in resources, in requirements; and--

(3) These different countries are not merely different from one another, they are separated
from one another by formidable natural barriers.

TEN THOUSAND MILES WITH A DOG SLED

CHAPTER I

FAIRBANKS TO THE CHANDALAR THROUGH CIRCLE CITY AND FORT YUKON

THE plan for the winter journey of 1905-6 (my second winter on the trail) was an ambitious
one, for it contemplated a visit to Point Hope, on the shore of the Arctic Ocean between Kotzebue
Sound and Point Barrow, and a return to Fairbanks. In the summer such a journey would be practicable
only by water: down the Tanana to the Yukon, down the Yukon to its mouth, and then through
the straits of Bering and along the Arctic coast; in the winter it is possible to make the
journey across country. A desire to visit our most northerly and most inaccessible mission
in Alaska and a desire to become acquainted with general conditions in the wide country north
of the Yukon were equal factors in the planning of a journey which would carry me through three
and a half degrees of latitude and no less than eighteen degrees of longitude.

The course of winter travel in Alaska follows the frozen waterways so far as they lead in the
general direction desired, leaves them to cross mountain ranges and divides at the most favourable
points, and drops down into the streams again so soon as streams are available. The country
is notably well watered and the waterways are the natural highways. The more frequented routes
gradually cut out the serpentine bends of the rivers by land trails, but in the wilder parts
of the country travel sticks to the ice.

Our course, therefore, lay up the Chatanika River and one of its tributaries until the Tanana-Yukon
watershed was reached; then through the mountains, crossing two steep summits to the Yukon
slope, and down that slope by convenient streams to the Yukon River at Circle City.

[Sidenote: THE GOLD TRAIN]

We set out on the 27th of November with six dogs and a "basket" sled and about five hundred
pounds' weight of load, including tent and stove, bedding, clothes for the winter, grub box
and its equipment, and dog feed. The dogs were those that I had used the previous winter, with
one exception. The leader had come home lame from the fish camp where he had been boarded during
the summer, and, despite all attentions, the lameness had persisted; so he must be left behind,
and there was much difficulty in securing another leader. A recent stampede to a new mining
district had advanced the price of dogs and gathered up all the good ones, so it was necessary
to hunt all over Fairbanks and pay a hundred dollars for a dog that proved very indifferent,
after all. "Jimmy" was a handsome beast, the handsomest I ever owned and the costliest, but,
as I learned later from one who knew his history, had "travelled on his looks all his life."
He earned the name of "Jimmy the Fake."

Midway to Cleary "City," on the chief gold-producing creek of the district, our first day's
run, we encountered the gold train. For some time previous a lone highwayman had robbed solitary
miners on their way to Fairbanks with gold-dust, and now a posse was organised that went the
rounds of the creeks and gathered up the dust and bore it on mule-back to the bank, escorted
by half a dozen armed and mounted men. Sawed-off shotguns were the favourite weapons, and one
judged them deadly enough at short range. The heavy "pokes" galled the animals' backs, however
they might be slung, and the little procession wound slowly along, a man ahead, a man behind,
and four clustered round the treasure.

These raw, temporary mining towns are much alike the world over, one supposes, though perhaps
a little worse up here in the far north. It was late at night when we reached the place, but
saloon and dance-hall were ablaze with light and loud with the raucity of phonographs and the
stamping of feet. Everything was "wide open," and there was not even the thinnest veneer of
respectability. Drinking and gambling and dancing go on all night long. Drunken men reel out
upon the snow; painted faces leer over muslin curtains as one passes by. Without any government,
without any pretence of municipal organisation, there is no co-operation for public enterprise.
There are no streets, there are no sidewalks save such as a man may choose to lay in front
of his own premises, and the simplest sanitary precautions are entirely neglected. Nothing
but the cold climate of the north prevents epidemic disease from sweeping through these places.
They rise in a few days wherever gold is found in quantities, they flourish as the production
increases, decline with its decline, and are left gaunt, dark, and abandoned so soon as the
diggings are exhausted.

The next day we were on the Chatanika River, to which Cleary Creek is tributary, and were immediately
confronted with one of the main troubles and difficulties of winter travel in this and, as
may be supposed, in any arctic or subarctic country--overflow water.

[Sidenote: OVERFLOW WATER AND ICE]

In the lesser rivers, where deep pools alternate with swift shallows, the stream freezes solid
to the bottom upon the shoals and riffles. Since the subterranean fountains that supply the
river do not cease to discharge their waters in the winter, however cold it may be, there comes
presently an increasing pressure under the ice above such a barrier. The pent-up water is strong
enough to heave the ice into mounds and at last to break forth, spreading itself far along
the frozen surface of the river. At times it may be seen gushing out like an artesian well,
rising three or four feet above the surface of the ice, until the pressure is relieved. Sometimes
for many miles at a stretch the whole river will be covered with a succession of such overflows,
from two or three inches deep to eight or ten, or even twelve; some just bursting forth, some
partially frozen, some resolved into solid "glare" ice. Thus the surface of the river is continually
renewed the whole winter through, and a section of the ice crust in the spring would show a
series of laminations; here ice upon ice, there ice upon half-incorporated snow, that mark
the successive inundations.

This explanation has been given at length because of the large part that the phenomenon plays
in the difficulty and danger of winter travel, and because it seems hard to make those who
are not familiar with it understand it. At first sight it would seem that after a week or ten
days of fifty-below-zero weather, for instance, all water everywhere would be frozen into quiescence
for the rest of the winter. Throw a bucket of water into the air, and it is frozen solid as
soon as it reaches the ground. There would be no more trouble, one would think, with water.
Yet some of the worst trouble the traveller has with overflow water is during very cold weather,
and it is then, of course, that there is the greatest danger of frost-bite in getting one's
feet wet. Water-proof footwear, therefore, becomes one of the "musher's" great concerns and
difficulties. The best water-proof footwear is the Esquimau mukluk, not easily obtainable in
the interior of Alaska, but the mukluk is an inconvenient footwear to put snow-shoes on. Rubber
boots or shoes of any kind are most uncomfortable things to travel in. Nothing equals the moccasin
on the trail, nothing is so good to snow-shoe in. The well-equipped traveller has moccasins
for dry trails and mukluks for wet trails--and even then may sometimes get his feet wet. Nor
are his own feet his only consideration; his dogs' feet are, collectively, as important as
his own. When the dog comes out of water into snow again the snow collects and freezes between
the toes, and if not removed will soon cause a sore and lameness. Then a dog moccasin must
be put on and the foot continually nursed and doctored. When several dogs of a team are thus
affected, it may be with several feet each, the labour and trouble of travel are greatly increased.

So, whenever his dogs have been through water, the careful musher will stop and go all down
the line, cleaning out the ice and snow from their feet with his fingers. Four interdigital
spaces per foot make sixteen per dog, and with a team of six dogs that means ninety-six several
operations with the bare hand (if it be done effectually) every time the team gets into an
overflow. The dogs will do it for themselves if they are given time, tearing out the lumps
of ice with their teeth; but, inasmuch as they usually feel conscientiously obliged to eat
each lump as they pull it out, it takes much longer, and in a short daylight there is little
time to spare if the day's march is to be made.

[Sidenote: "OVERFLOW" ICE]

We found overflow almost as soon as we reached the Chatanika River, and in one form or another
we encountered it during all the two days and a half that we were pursuing the river's windings.
At times it was covered with a sheet of new ice that would support the dogs but would not support
the sled, so that the dogs were travelling on one level and the sled on another, and a man
had to walk along in the water between the dogs and the sled for several hundred yards at a
time, breaking down the overflow ice with his feet.

At other times the thin sheets of overflow ice would sway and bend as the sled passed quickly
over them in a way that gives to ice in such condition its Alaskan name of "rubber-ice," while
for the fifteen or twenty miles of McManus Creek, the headwaters of the Chatanika, we had continuous
stretches of fine glare ice with enough frost crystals upon it from condensing moisture to
give a "tooth" to the dogs' feet, just as varnish on a photographic negative gives tooth to
the retouching pencil. Perfectly smooth ice is a very difficult surface for dogs to pass over;
glare ice slightly roughened by frost deposit makes splendid, fast going.

Eighty-five miles or so from Fairbanks, and just about half-way to Circle, the watercourse
is left and the first summit is the "Twelve-Mile," as it is called. We tried hard to take our
load up at one trip, but found it impossible to do so, and had to unlash the sled and take
half the load at a time, caching it on the top while we returned for the other half.

It took us half a day to get our load to the top of the Twelve-Mile summit, a rise of about
one thousand three hundred feet from the creek bed as the aneroid gave it. In the steeper pitches
we had to take the axe and cut steps, so hard and smooth does the incessant wind at these heights
beat the snow, and on our second trip to the top we were just in time to rescue a roll of bedding
that had been blown from the cache and was about to descend a gully from which we could hardly
have recovered it.

This summit descended, we were in Birch Creek water, and had we followed the watercourse would
have reached the Yukon; but we would have travelled hundreds of miles and would have come out
below Fort Yukon, while we were bound for Circle City. So there was another and a yet more
difficult summit to cross before we could descend the Yukon slope. We were able to hire a man
and two dogs to help us over the Eagle summit, so that the necessity of relaying was avoided.
One man ahead continually calling to the dogs, eight dogs steadily pulling, and two men behind
steadily pushing, foot by foot, with many stoppages as one bench after another was surmounted,
we got the load to the top at last, a rise of one thousand four hundred feet in less than three
miles. A driving snow-storm cut off all view and would have left us at a loss which way to
proceed but for the stakes that indicated it.

The descent was as anxious and hazardous as the ascent had been laborious. The dogs were loosed
and sent racing down the slope. With a rope rough-lock around the sled runners, one man took
the gee pole and another the handle-bars and each spread-eagled himself through the loose deep
snow to check the momentum of the sled, until sled and men turned aside and came to a stop
in a drift to avoid a steep, smooth pitch. The sled extricated, it was poised on the edge of
the pitch and turned loose on the hardened snow, hurtling down three or four hundred feet until
it buried itself in another drift. The dogs were necessary to drag it from this drift, and
one had to go down and bring them up. Then again they were loosed, and from bench to bench
the process was repeated until the slope grew gentle enough to permit the regulation of the
downward progress by the foot-brake.

[Sidenote: "SUMMITS"]

The Eagle summit is one of the most difficult summits in Alaska. The wind blows so fiercely
that sometimes for days together its passage is almost impossible. No amount of trail making
could be of much help, for the snow smothers up everything on the lee of the hill, and the
end of every storm presents a new surface and an altered route. A "summit" in this Alaskan
sense is, of course, a saddle between peaks, and in this case there is no easier pass and no
way around. The only way to avoid the Eagle summit, without going out of the district altogether,
would be to tunnel it.

The summit passed, we found better trails and a more frequented country, for in this district
are a number of creeks that draw supplies from Circle City, and that had been worked ten years
or more.

At the time of the Klondike stampede of 1896-97, Circle City was already established as a flourishing
mining camp and boasted itself the largest log-cabin town in the world. Before the Klondike
drew away its people as a stronger magnet draws iron filings from a lesser one, Circle had
a population of about three thousand. Take a town of three thousand and reduce it to thirty
or forty, and it is hard to resist the melancholy impression which entrance upon it in the
dusk of the evening brings. There lay the great white Yukon in the middle distance; beyond
it the Yukon Flats, snow-covered, desolate, stretched away enormously, hedged here at their
beginning by grey, dim hills. Spread out in the foreground were the little, squat, huddling
cabins that belonged to no one, with never a light in a window or smoke from a chimney, the
untrodden snow drifted against door and porch. It would be hard to imagine a drearier prospect,
and one had the feeling that it was a city of the dead rather than merely a dead city.

The weather had grown steadily colder since we reached the Yukon slope, and for two days before
reaching Circle the thermometer had stood between 40° and 50° below zero. It was all right
for us to push on, the trail was good and nearly all down-hill, and there were road-houses
every ten or twelve miles. Freighters, weather-bound, came to the doors as we passed by with
our jangle of bells and would raise a somewhat chechaco pride in our breasts by remarking:
"You don't seem to care what weather you travel in!" The evil of it was that the perfectly
safe travelling between Eagle Creek and Circle emboldened us to push on from Circle under totally
different conditions, when travelling at such low temperatures became highly dangerous and
brought us into grave misadventure that might easily have been fatal catastrophe.

Our original start was a week later than had been planned and we had made no time, but rather
lost it, on this first division of the journey. If we were to reach Bettles on the Koyukuk
River for Christmas, there was no more time to lose, and I was anxious to spend the next Sunday
at Fort Yukon, three days' journey away. So we started for Fort Yukon on Thursday, the 7th
of December, the day after we reached Circle.

[Sidenote: THE YUKON FLATS]

A certain arctic traveller has said that "adventures" always imply either incompetence or ignorance
of local conditions, and there is some truth in the saying. Our misadventure was the result
of a series of mistakes, no one of which would have been other than discreditable to men of
more experience. Our course lay for seventy-five miles through the Yukon Flats, which begin
at Circle and extend for two hundred and fifty miles of the river's course below that point.
The Flats constitute the most difficult and dangerous part of the whole length of the Yukon
River, summer or winter, and the section between Circle City and Fort Yukon is the most difficult
and dangerous part of the Flats. Save for a "portage" or land trail of eighteen or twenty miles
out of Circle, the trail is on the river itself, which is split up into many channels without
salient landmarks. The current is so swift that many stretches run open water far into the
winter, and blow-holes are numerous. There is little travel on the Flats in winter, and a snow-storm
accompanied by wind may obliterate what trail there is in an hour. The vehicle used in the
Flats is not a sled but a toboggan, and our first mistake was in not conforming to local usage
in this respect. There is always a very good reason for local usage about snow vehicles. But
a toboggan which had been ordered from a native at Fort Yukon would be waiting for us, and
it seemed not worth while to go to the expense of buying another merely for three days' journey.

The second mistake was in engaging a boy as guide instead of a man. He was an attractive youth
of about fourteen who had done good service at the Circle City mission the previous winter,
when our nurse-in-charge was contending single-handed against an epidemic of diphtheria. He
was a pleasant boy, with some English, who wanted to go and professed knowledge of the route.
The greatest mistake of all was starting out through that lonely waste with the thermometer
at 52° below zero. The old-timers in Alaska have a saying that "travelling at 50° below is
all right as long as it's all right." If there be a good trail, if there be convenient stopping-places,
if nothing go wrong, one may travel without special risk and with no extraordinary discomfort
at 50° below zero and a good deal lower. I have since that time made a short day's run at 62°
below, and once travelled for two or three hours on a stretch at 65° below. But there is always
more or less chance in travelling at low temperatures, because a very small thing may necessitate
a stop, and a stop may turn into a serious thing. At such temperatures one must keep going.
No amount of clothing that it is possible to wear on the trail will keep one warm while standing
still. For dogs and men alike, constant brisk motion is necessary; for dogs as well as men--even
though dogs will sleep outdoors in such cold without harm--for they cannot take as good care
of themselves in the harness as they can when loose. A trace that needs mending, a broken buckle,
a snow-shoe string that must be replaced, may chill one so that it is impossible to recover
one's warmth again. The bare hand cannot be exposed for many seconds without beginning to freeze;
it is dangerous to breathe the air into the lungs for any length of time without a muffler
over the mouth.

Our troubles began as soon as we started. The trail was a narrow, winding toboggan track of
sixteen or seventeen inches, while our sled was twenty inches wide, so that one runner was
always dragging in the loose snow, and that meant slow, heavy going.

[Sidenote: SUNRISE AND SUNSET]

The days were nearing the shortest of the year, when, in these latitudes, the sun does but
show himself and withdraw again. But, especially in very cold weather, which is nearly always
very clear weather, that brief appearance is preceded by a feast of rich, delicate colour.
First a greenish glow on the southern horizon, brightening into lemon and then into clear primrose,
invades the deep purple of the starry heavens. Then a beautiful circle of blush pink above
a circle of pure amethyst gradually stretches all around the edge of the sky, slowly brightening
while the stars fade out and the heavens change to blue. The dead white mirror of the snow
takes every tint that the skies display with a faint but exquisite radiance. Then the sun's
disk appears with a flood of yellow light but with no appreciable warmth, and for a little
space his level rays shoot out and gild the tree tops and the distant hills. The snow springs
to life. Dead white no longer, its dry, crystalline particles glitter in myriads of diamond
facets with every colour of the prism. Then the sun is gone, and the lovely circle of rose
pink over amethyst again stretches round the horizon, slowly fading until once more the pale
primrose glows in the south against the purple sky with its silver stars. Thus sunrise and
sunset form a continuous spectacle, with a purity of delicate yet splendid colour that only
perfectly dry atmosphere permits. The primrose glow, the heralding circle, the ball of orange
light, the valedictory circle, the primrose glow again, and a day has come and gone. Air can
hold no moisture at all at these low temperatures, and the skies are cloudless.

[Sidenote: AN ESCAPADE ON THE YUKON]

Moreover, in the wilds at 50° below zero there is the most complete silence. All animal life
is hidden away. Not a rabbit flits across the trail; in the absolutely still air not a twig
moves. A rare raven passes overhead, and his cry, changed from a hoarse croak to a sweet liquid
note, reverberates like the musical glasses. There is no more delightful sound in the wilderness
than this occasional lapse into music of the raven. We wound through the scrub spruce and willow
and over the niggerhead swamps, a faint tinkle of bells, a little cloud of steam; for in the
great cold the moisture of the animals' breath hangs over their heads in the still air, and
on looking back it stands awhile along the course at dogs' height until it is presently deposited
on twigs and tussocks. We wound along, a faint tinkle of bells, a little cloud of steam, and
in the midst of the cloud a tousle of shaggy black-and-white hair and red-and-white pompons--going
out of the dead silence behind into the dead silence before. The dusk came, and still we plodded
and pushed our weary way, swinging that heavy sled incessantly, by the gee pole in front and
the handle-bars behind, in the vain effort to keep it on the trail. Two miles an hour was all
that we were making. We had come but thirteen or fourteen miles out of twenty-four, and it
was dark; and it grew colder.

The dogs whined and stopped every few yards, worn out by wallowing in the snow and the labour
of the collar. The long scarfs that wrapped our mouths and noses had been shifted and shifted,
as one part after another became solid with ice from the breath, until over their whole length
they were stiff as boards. After two more miles of it it was evident that we could not reach
the mail cabin that night. Then I made my last and worst mistake. We should have stopped and
camped then and there. We had tent and stove and everything requisite. But the native boy insisted
that the cabin was "only little way," and any one who knows the misery of making camp in extremely
cold weather, in the dark, will understand our reluctance to do so.

I decided to make a cache of the greater part of our load--tent and stove and supplies generally--and
to push on to the cabin with but the bedding and the grub box, returning for the stuff in the
morning. And, since in the deepest depths of blundering there is a deeper still, by some one's
carelessness, but certainly by my fault, the axe was left behind in the cache.

With our reduced burden we made better progress, and in a short time reached the end of the
portage and came out on the frozen river, just as the moon, a day or two past the full, rose
above the opposite bank. One sees many strange distortions of sun and moon in this land, but
never was a stranger seen than this. Her disk, shining through the dense air of the river bottom,
was in shape an almost perfect octagon, regular as though it had been laid off with dividers
and a ruler.

We were soon in doubt about the trail. The mail-carrier had gone down only two or three times
this winter and each time had taken a different route, as more and more of the river closed
and gave him more and more direct passage. A number of Indians had been hunting, and their
tracks added to the tangle of trails. Presently we entered a thick mist that even to inexperienced
eyes spoke of open water or new ice yet moist. So heavy was the vapour that to the man at the
handle-bars the man at the gee pole loomed ghostly, and the man ahead of the dogs could not
be distinguished at all. We had gone so much farther than our native boy had declared we had
to go that we began to fear that in the confusion of trails we had taken the wrong one and
had passed the cabin. That is the tenderfoot's, or, as we say, the chechaco's, fear; it is
the one thing that it may almost be said never happens. But the boy fell down completely and
was frankly at a loss. All we could get out of him was: "May-be-so we catch cabin bymeby, may-be-so
no." If we had passed the cabin it was twenty odd miles to the next; and it grew colder and
the dogs were utterly weary again, prone upon the trail at every small excuse for a stop, only
to be stirred by the whip, heavily wielded. Surely never men thrust themselves foolhardily
into worse predicament! Then I made my last mistake. Dimly the bank loomed through the mist,
and I said: "We can't go any farther; I think we've missed the trail and I'm going across to
yon bank to see if there's a place to camp." I had not gone six steps from the trail when the
ice gave way under my feet and I found myself in water to my hips.

[Sidenote: AN ESCAPADE ON THE YUKON]

Under Providence I owe it to the mukluks I wore, tied tight round my knees, that I did not
lose my life, or at least my feet. The thermometer at Circle City stood at 60° below zero at
dark that day, and down on the ice it is always about 5° colder than on the bank, because cold
air is heavy air and sinks to the lowest level, and 65° below zero means 97° below freezing.

My moose-hide breeches froze solid the moment I scrambled out, but not a drop of water got
to my feet. If the water had reached my feet they would have frozen almost as quickly as the
moose hide in that fearful cold. Thoroughly alarmed now, and realising our perilous situation,
we did the only thing there was to do--we turned the dogs loose and abandoned the sled and
went back along the trail we had followed as fast as we could. We knew that we could safely
retrace our steps and that the trail would lead us to the bank after a while. We knew not where
the trail would lead us in the other direction. As a matter of fact, it led to the mail cabin,
two miles farther on, and the mail-carrier was at that time occupying it at the end of his
day's run.

The dogs stayed with the sled; dogs will usually stay with their sled; they seem to recognise
their first allegiance to the load they haul, probably because they know their food forms part
of it.

Our cache reached, we made a fire, thawed out the iron-like armour of my leather breeches,
and cutting a spare woollen scarf in two, wrapped the dry, warm pieces about my numbed thighs.
Then we pushed on the eighteen miles or so to Circle, keeping a steady pace despite the drowsiness
that oppressed us, and that oppressed me particularly owing to the chill of my ducking. About
five in the morning we reached the town, and the clergyman, the Reverend C. E. Rice, turned
out of his warm bed and I turned in, none the worse in body for the experience, but much humbled
in spirit. My companion, Mr. E. J. Knapp, whose thoughtful care for me I always look back upon
with gratitude, as well as upon Mr. Rice's kindness, froze his nose and a toe slightly, being
somewhat neglectful of himself in his solicitude for me.

We had been out about twenty hours in a temperature ranging from 52° to 60° below zero, had
walked about forty-four miles, labouring incessantly as well as walking, what time we were
with the sled, with nothing to eat--it was too cold to stop for eating--and, in addition to
this, one of us had been in water to the waist, yet none of us took any harm. It was a providential
overruling of blundering foolhardiness for which we were deeply thankful.

The next day a native with a fast team and an empty toboggan was sent down to take our load
on to the cabin and bring the dogs back. Meanwhile, the mail-carrier had passed the spot, had
seen the abandoned sled standing by recently broken ice, and had come on into town while we
slept and none knew of our return, with the news that some one had been drowned. The mail for
Fairbanks did but await the mail from Fort Yukon, and the town rumour, instantly identifying
the abandoned sled, was carried across to Fairbanks, to my great distress and annoyance. The
echoes of the distorted account of this misadventure which appeared in a Fairbanks newspaper
still reverberate in "patent insides" of the provincial press of the United States.

[Sidenote: FORT YUKON ]

The next Monday we started again, this time with a toboggan and with a man instead of a boy
for guide, and in three days of only moderate difficulty we reached Fort Yukon.

Fort Yukon, though it holds no attraction for the ordinary visitor or the summer tourist on
the river, is a place of much interest to those who know the history of Alaska. While it is
purely a native village, with no white population save the traders and the usual sprinkling
of men that hang around native villages, it is yet the oldest white man's post on the Yukon
River, save the post established by the Russians at Nulato, five or six hundred miles lower
down. The Hudson Bay Company established itself here in 1846, and that date serves as the year
one in making calculations and determining ages to this day. It is a fixed point in time that
every native knows of. Any old man can tell you whether he was born before or after that date,
and, if before, can pick out some boy that is about the age he was when the event occurred.
The massacre at Nulato in 1851 serves in a similar way for the lower river.

After the Purchase, and the determination of the longitude of Fort Yukon by Mr. Raymond in
1869--who made the first steamboat journey up the Yukon on that errand--the Hudson Bay Company
moved three times before they succeeded in getting east of the 141st meridian, and at the point
reached on the third move, the New Rampart House on the Porcupine River, only a few hundred
yards beyond the boundary-line, they remained until the gold excitement on the Yukon and the
journeying of the natives to new posts on that river rendered trading unprofitable; then they
withdrew to the Mackenzie. The oldest white men's graves in Alaska, again with the exception
of Nulato, are those in the little Hudson Bay cemetery near Fort Yukon.

[Sidenote: ARCHDEACON MACDONALD ]

Fort Yukon is also the site of the oldest missionary station on the river, unless there were
earlier visits of Russian priests to the lower river, of which there seems no record, for in
1862 there was a clergyman of the Church of England at this place. Archdeacon MacDonald was
a remarkable man. Married to a native wife, he translated the whole Bible and the Book of Common
Prayer into the native tongue, and his translations are in general use on the upper river to
this day. He reduced the language to writing, extracted its grammar, taught the Indians to
read and write their own tongue, and dignified it by the gift of the great literature of the
sacred books. The language is, of course, a dying one--English is slowly superseding it--but
it seems safe to say that for a generation or two yet to come it will be the basis of the common
speech of the people and the language of worship. It is chiefly in matters of trading and handicrafts
that English is taking its place, though here as elsewhere it stands to the discredit of the
civilised race that blackguard English is the first English that is learned.

There seems ground to question whether the substitution of a smattering of broken English for
the flexibility and picturesque expressiveness of an indigenous tongue, thoroughly understood,
carries with it any great intellectual gain, though to suggest such a doubt is treason to some
minds. The time threatens when all the world will speak two or three great languages, when
all little tongues will be extinct and all little peoples swallowed up, when all costume will
be reduced to a dead level of blue jeans and shoddy and all strange customs abolished. The
world will be a much less interesting world then; the spice and savour of the ends of the earth
will be gone. Nor does it always appear unquestionable that the world will be the better or
the happier. The advance of civilisation would be a great thing to work for if we were quite
sure what we meant by it and what its goal is. To the ordinary government school-teacher in
Alaska, with some notable exceptions, it seems to mean chiefly teaching the Indians to call
themselves Mr. and Mrs. and teaching the women to wear millinery, with a contemptuous attitude
toward the native language and all native customs. The less intelligent grade of missionary
sometimes falls into the same easy rut. So letters pass through the post-offices addressed:
"Mr. Pretty Henry," "Mrs. Monkey Bill," "Miss Sally Shortandirty"; so, occasionally, the grotesque
spectacle may present itself, to the passengers on a steamer, of a native woman in a "Merry
Widow" hat and a blood-stained parkee gutting salmon on the river bank.

The nobler ideal, as it seems to some of us, is to labour for God-fearing, self-respecting
Indians rather than imitation white men and white women. An Indian who is honest, healthy and
kindly, skilled in hunting and trapping, versed in his native Bible and liturgy, even though
he be entirely ignorant of English and have acquired no taste for canned fruit and know not
when Columbus discovered America, may be very much of a man in that station of life in which
it has pleased God to call him.

Christmas and the Fourth of July are the Indian's great holidays, the one just after the best
moose hunting and the other just before the salmon run. It may be supposed that there were
always great feasts at the winter and summer solstices, though now he is sufficiently devout
at the one and patriotic at the other. At these seasons, and for weeks before and after, Fort
Yukon gathers a large number of Indians. It is the native metropolis of the country within
a radius of a hundred miles, and what may be termed its permanent population of one hundred
and fifty is doubled and sometimes trebled by contingents from the Chandalar, the Porcupine,
and the Black Rivers, from that long river called Birch Creek, and all the intervening country.
Many families of the "uncivilised," self-respecting kind, to which reference has been made,
come in from outlying points, and the contrast between them and their more sophisticated kinfolk
of the town is all in their favour.

[Sidenote: JIMMY]

Such a gathering had already taken place in preparation for the Christmas holidays when we
reached Fort Yukon on the 15th of December. It would have been pleasant to spend Christmas
with them, but we were due two hundred and fifty miles away, at Bettles, for that feast, if
by any means we could get there. So we lingered but the two days necessary to equip ourselves.
Jimmy had torn our bedding to pieces on the night of the mishap; it was lashed on the outside
of the load, and he had scratched and clawed it to make a nest for himself until fur from the
robe and feathers from the quilts were all over the trail. The other dogs, not so warmly coated
as he, had been content to sleep in the snow. Jimmy's character was gradually revealing itself.
A well-bred trail dog will not commit the canine sacrilege of invading the sled. That is a
"Siwash" dog's trick. So there was fresh bedding to manufacture, as well as supplies for two
hundred miles to get together.

A mail once a month went at that time from Fort Yukon to the Koyukuk, and there was little
other travel. The course lay fifty or sixty miles across country to the Chandalar River, about
one hundred miles up that stream, and then across a divide to the South Fork of the Koyukuk,
and across another to the Middle Fork, on which Coldfoot is situated. It is not possible to
procure any supplies, save sometimes a little fish for dog food and that not certainly, between
Fort Yukon and Coldfoot, so that provision for the whole journey must be taken.

[Sidenote: THE CHANDALAR]

A new Indian guide had been engaged as far as Coldfoot, and we set out--three men, two toboggans,
and seven dogs; four on the larger vehicle and three on the smaller, one of the dogs brought
by our guide. Three miles from Fort Yukon we crossed the Porcupine River and then plunged into
the wilderness of lake and swamp and forest that stretches north of the Yukon. A portage trail,
as such a track across country is called to distinguish it from a river trail, has the advantage
of such protection from storm as its timbered stretches afford. For miles and miles the route
passes through scrub spruce that has been burned over, with no prospect but a maze of charred
poles against the snow, some upright, others at every angle of inclination. Then comes a lake,
with difficulty in finding the trail on its wind-swept surface and sometimes much casting about
to discover where it leaves the lake again, and then more small burned timber. Wherever the
route is through woods, living or dead, it is blazed; when it strikes the open, one is often
at a loss. After three or four days of such travel, sometimes reaching an old cabin for the
night, sometimes pitching the tent, one is rejoiced at the sight of distant mountains and at
the intimation they bring that the inexpressible dreariness of the Yukon Flats is nearly past;
and presently the trail opens suddenly upon the broad Chandalar.

The Hudson Bay voyageurs are responsible for many names in this part of Alaska, and Chandalar
is a corruption of their "Gens de large." The various native tribes received appellations indicating
habitats. A tribe that differed from most northern Indians, in having no permanent villages
and in living altogether in encampments, was named "Gens de large," and the river which they
frequented took their name.

It is one of the second-rate tributaries of the Yukon, and in general its waters are swift
and shallow, not navigable for light-draught steamboats for more than one hundred and fifty
miles, save at flood, and not easily navigable at all. It is these swift shallow streams that
are so formidable in winter on account of overflow water, and the Chandalar is one of the most
dreaded.

[Sidenote: DIPHTHERIA]

Ten miles along the river's surface brought us to the Chandalar native village, a settlement
of half a dozen cabins and twenty-five or thirty souls. The people came out to meet us, and
said they were just about to bury a baby, and asked me to conduct the funeral. Because we had
not done a day's march and were under compulsion to push on at our best speed, I did not unlash
the sled but went just as I was up the hill with the sorrowful procession to the little graveyard.
On the way down I asked as best I could of what sickness the baby had died, and I felt some
uneasiness when the throat was pointed to as the seat of disease. When, presently, I was informed
that two others were sick, and of the same complaint, my uneasiness became alarm. I went at
once to see them, and the angry swollen throats patched with white membrane which I discovered
left no room for doubt that we were in the presence of another outbreak of diphtheria. That
disease had scourged the Yukon in the two preceding years. Twenty-three children died at Fort
Yukon in the summer of 1904, half a dozen at Circle in the following winter, though that outbreak
was grappled with from the first; and all along the river the loss of life was terrible.

There was no question that we must give up all hope of reaching Bettles for Christmas and stay
and do what we could for these people. So we made camp on the outskirts of the village, and
I went to work swabbing out the throats with carbolic acid and preparing liquid food from our
grub box. There was nothing to eat in the village but dried fish and a little dried moose,
and these throats like red-hot iron could hardly swallow liquids. The two patients were a boy
of sixteen and a grown woman. It was evident that unless we could isolate them the disease
would probably pass through the whole village, and, indeed, others might have been infected
already. It was likely that we were in for a siege of it, and our supply of condensed milk
and extract of beef would soon be exhausted. Moreover, at Fort Yukon was the trained nurse
who had coped with the epidemic there and at Circle, while we had virtually no experience with
the disease at all. It was resolved to send back to Fort Yukon for supplies and for the nurse.

The next morning Mr. Knapp and the native boy took the dogs and the sled and started back.
With no load save a little grub and bedding, they could make the journey in two days, a day
must be allowed for preparations, and, with the aid of another dog team, two days more would
bring them back. Five days was the least they could be gone. It was asking a great deal of
this lady to abandon her Christmas festival, preparations for which had long been making, and
to come sixty-five miles through the frozen wilderness in a toboggan; but I felt sure she would
drop everything and come.

For those five days I was busied in close attention to the patients and in strenuous though
not altogether availing efforts to maintain a quarantine of the cabin in which they lay. There
was little more that I could do than swab out the throats and administer food every two hours.
As the disease advanced it was increasingly painful to swallow and exceedingly difficult to
induce the sufferers to make the attempt or to open their mouths for the swabbing. After two
or three days the woman seemed to have passed the crisis of the disease and to be mending,
but the boy, I thought, grew worse. One becomes attached to those to whom one ministers, and
this poor, speechless boy, with his terrible throat and the agony in his big black eyes, appealed
to me very strongly indeed. It was torture to move his head or to open his mouth, and I had
to torture him continually.

Every night I gathered the people for Divine service. Here was a little community far off in
the wilds that had carefully conserved and handed on to their children the teaching they had
received no less than thirty years before. The native Bibles and prayer-books and hymnals were
brought out, bearing dates of publication in the seventies; one of their number acted as leader,
and what he read was painfully followed in the well-thumbed books. They lifted their voices
in a weird transformation of familiar tunes, with quavers and glides that had crept in through
long, uncorrected use, and amongst the prayers said was one for "Our Sovereign lady Queen Victoria,
and Albert Edward, Prince of Wales." I tried to explain that Queen Victoria was dead, that
they were not living under British rule, and I took a pencil and struck out the prayers for
the royal family from the books. But there was doubt in their minds and a reluctance to alter
in any particular the liturgy that had been taught them, and it is quite likely that intercessions
for a defunct sovereign of another land still arise from the Chandalar village. One cannot
but feel a deep admiration for the pioneer missionaries of this region--Bishop Bompas, Archdeacon
MacDonald, and the others--whose teaching was so thorough and so lasting, and who lived and
laboured here long before any gold seeker had thought of Alaska, when the country was an Indian
country exclusively, with none of the comforts and conveniences that can now be enjoyed. It
was to a remote cabin on the East Fork of this river that Archdeacon MacDonald retired for
a year to make part of his translation of the Bible, according to the Indian account.

[Sidenote: THE SHORTEST DAY]

At noon on the 21st of December, the shortest day, there is a note in my diary that I saw the
sun's disk shining through the trees. Although fully half a degree of latitude north of the
Arctic Circle, the refraction is sufficient to lift his whole sphere above the horizon. One
speculates how much farther north it would be possible to see any part of the sun at noon on
the shortest day; but north of here, throughout Alaska, is broken and mountainous country.
We were on the northern edge of the great flat of the interior.

The fifth day at the village was Christmas Eve. My boy was in a critical condition, very low
and weak, with a temperature that stayed around 101° and 102°. As night approached I watched
with the greatest anxiety for the party from Fort Yukon, and, just as the last lingering glow
of the long twilight was fading from the south, there was a distant tinkle of bells on the
trail, and faintly once and again a man's voice was raised in command and I knew that relief
was at hand.

The nurse had dropped everything and had come, as I felt sure she would. Gathering medicines
and supplies and hiring a native dog team and driver, she had left immediately, and the round
trip had been made in the shortest time it was possible to make it. It was a tremendous relief
to see her step out of the rugs and robes of the toboggan and take charge of the situation
in her quiet, competent way. A small, outlying cabin was selected for a hospital, the family
that occupied it bundled out into a tent, and the two sick persons carefully moved into it,
with whom and the mother of the sick boy the nurse took up her abode. Then there was the Christmas-tree
in the chief's cabin, with little gifts for the children sent out from the mission at Fort
Yukon some time before, and a dance afterward, for Christmas festivities must go on, whatever
happens, at a native village. I took James's pocket-knife to him after the celebration was
over, and I think he really tried to smile as he thanked me with his eyes.

The next day after the services, although it was Christmas Day, we set to work on the disinfecting
of the large cabin in which the sick had lain. Stringing bedclothes and wearing apparel on
lines from wall to wall, and stuffing up every crack and cranny with cotton, we burned quantities
of sulphur, that the nurse had brought with her, all day long.

A recent article in a stray number of a professional journal picked up in the office of a medical
missionary, devoted column after column to the uselessness of all known methods of disinfection.
Sulphur, formaldehyde, carbolic acid, permanganate of potash, chloride of lime, bichloride
of mercury--the author knew not which of these "fetiches" to be most sarcastic about. It may
be that the net result of our copious fumigation was but the bleaching of the coloured garments
hung up, but at least it did no harm. One sometimes wishes that these scientists who sit up
so high in the seat of the scornful would condescend to a little plain instruction.

The anti-diphtheritic serum is now kept in readiness at all our missions in Alaska, and the
disease seems to have ceased its depredations; but it has taken terrible toll of the native people.

[Sidenote: THE MISSIONARY NURSE]

We wished to stay with the nurse until the sickness should be done, but she would not hear
of it, and insisted upon the resumption of our journey. It did not seem right to go off and
leave this lonely woman, sixty-five miles from the nearest white person, to cope with an outbreak
of disease that might not yet have spent itself, although there had been no new case for a
week. "You've done your work here, now leave me to do mine. You'll not get to Point Hope this
winter if you stay much longer."

"Aren't you afraid to stay all by yourself?" I asked, somewhat fatuously.

"Afraid? Afraid of what? You surely don't mean afraid of the natives?"

I did not know what I meant; it seemed not unnatural that a woman with such prospect before
her should be a little timid, but she was resolute that we go, and we went.

Not until the next summer did I learn the upshot--both patients recovered and there was no
other case. Six years later, when these words are written, I have just baptized a son of the
boy who lay so ill, who would have perished, I think, had we not reached the Chandalar village
just in time.

CHAPTER II

CHANDALAR VILLAGE TO BETTLES, COLDFOOT, AND THE KOYUKUK

AT five o'clock in the morning of the 27th of December, hours before any kind of daylight,
while the faint "pit-pat" of all-night dancing still sounded from the chief's cabin, we dropped
down the steep bank to the river surface and resumed our journey. Ahead was a man with a candle
in a tin can, peering for the faint indications of the trail on the ice; the other two were
at the handle-bars of the toboggans. It is strange that in this day of invention and improvement
in artificial illumination, a candle in a tin can is still the most dependable light for the
trail. A coal-oil lamp requires a glass which is easily broken, and the ordinary coal-oil that
comes to Alaska freezes at about 40° below. In very cold weather a coal-oil lantern full of
oil will go out completely from the freezing of its supply. All the various acetylene lamps
are useless because water is required to generate the gas, and water may not be had without
stopping and building a fire and melting ice or snow. The electric flash-lamp, useful enough
round camp, goes out of operation altogether on the trail, because the "dry" cell that supplies
its current is not a dry cell at all, but a moist cell, and when its moisture freezes is dead
until it thaws out again. No extremity of cold will stop a candle from burning, and if it be
properly sheltered by the tin can it will stand a great deal of wind. The "folding pocket lantern,"
which is nothing but a convenient tin can with mica sides, is the best equipment for travel,
but an empty butter can or lard can is sometimes easier to come by.

The Chandalar is wide-spread in these parts, with several channels, and the trail was hard
to follow. One track we pursued led us up a bank and along a portage and presently stopped
at a marten trap; and we had to cut across to the river and cast about hither and thither on
its broad surface to find the mail trail.

[Sidenote: THE CHANDALAR GAP]

All the rivers that are confluent with the Yukon in the Flats enter that dreary region through
gaps in the mountains that bound the broad plain. These gaps are noted for wind, and the Chandalar
Gap, which had loomed before us since daybreak, is deservedly in especial bad repute. The most
hateful thing in the Arctic regions is the wind. Cold one may protect one's self against, but
there is no adequate protection against wind. The parkee without opening front or back, that
pulls on over the head, is primarily a windbreak, and when a scarf is wrapped around mouth
and nose, and the fur-edged hood of the parkee is pulled forward over cap and scarf, the traveller
who must face the wind has done all he can to protect himself from it.

Unfortunately, in the confusion of striking the tent and packing in the dark, my scarf had
been rolled up in the bedding, and, since the wind was not bad until we approached the Gap
in the evening, I had not troubled about it. Now, as we drew nearer and nearer, the wind rose
constantly. The thermometer was at 38° below zero, and wind at that temperature cuts like a
knife. But to get my scarf meant stopping the whole procession and unlashing and unloading
the sled, and the man who unlashed in that wind would almost certainly freeze his fingers.
So I gave up the thought of it, turned my back to the wind while I tied my pocket handkerchief
round mouth and nose, drew the strings of my parkee hood close, and then faced it again to
worry through as best I could. The ice is always swept clear of snow in the Gap. The river
narrows within its jaws, the ragged rocks rise up to the bluffs on either hand, and the blue-streaked
ice stretches between. We all suffered a good deal. Against that cruel wind it was impossible
to keep warm. The hands, though enclosed in woollen gloves, and they in blanket-lined moose-hide
mitts, grew numb; the toes, within their protection of caribou sock with the hair on, strips
of blanket wrapping, and mukluks stuffed with hay, tingled with warning of frost-bite; the
whole body was chilled. We all froze our faces, I think, for the part of the face around and
between the eyes cannot be covered. I froze my cheeks, my nose, and my Adam's apple, the last
a most inconvenient thing to freeze.

[Sidenote: A COLD LODGING]

The cabin was just the other side of the Gap, and it was well that it was no farther, for we
were weary with our thirty-mile run and dangerously cold with the exposure of the last hour.
It was rather a large cabin as trail cabins go, with a rickety sheet-iron stove in the middle,
burned full of holes, and it was hours before the fire began to make any impression on the
obstinate, sullen cold of that hut. When we went to bed the frost still stood thick and heavy
on the walls all over the room. A log building, properly constructed, is a warm building, but
slowness in parting with heat means slowness in receiving heat, and a log cabin that has been
unoccupied for a long time in very cold weather is hard to heat in one evening.

When we started next morning the thermometer stood at 45° below zero, but we were out of the
wind region and did not mind the cold. It is curious that a few miles on either side of that
Gap the air will be still, while in the Gap itself a gale is blowing. Seven times I have passed
through that Gap and only once without wind. The great Flats were now behind us, we had passed
into the mountains, and for the remainder of our long journey we should scarce ever be out
of sight of mountains again. Up the river, with its constant trouble of overflow, going around
the open water whenever we could, plunging through it in our mukluks when it could not be avoided--with
the care of the dogs' feet that the cold weather rendered more than ever necessary when they
got wet, and the added nuisance of throwing the toboggans on their sides and beating the ice
from them with the flat of the axe wherever water had been passed through--for two days we
followed its windings, the thermometer between -45° and -50°, the mountains rising higher and
the scenery growing more picturesque as we advanced. At the end of the second day from the
Gap we were at the mouth of the West Fork of the Chandalar, and after passing up it for fifteen
or sixteen miles we left that watercourse to cross the mountains to the South Fork of the Koyukuk
River.

Then began hard labour again. A toboggan is not a good vehicle for crossing summits. Its bottom
is perfectly flat and smooth, polished like glass by the friction of the snow. If the trail
be at all "sidling" (and mountain trails are almost always "sidling"), the toboggan swings
off on the side of the inclination and must be kept on the trail by main force. The runners
of a sled will grip the surface, if there be any inequalities at all, but a toboggan swings
now this way and now that, like a great pendulum, dragging the near dogs with it. Again and
again we had to hitch both teams to one toboggan to get up a sidling pitch while all hands
kept the vehicle on the trail, and our progress was painful and slow. In soft snow on a level
surface like the river bed or through the Flat country, generally, the toboggan is much the
more convenient vehicle, for it rides over the snow instead of ploughing through it, but on
hard snow anywhere or on grades the toboggan is a nuisance. Thus wallowing through the deep
snow at the side of the toboggans to hold them in place we sweated and slaved our way mile
after mile up the gradual ascent until we reached the spot, just under a shoulder of the summit,
where there was dry spruce and green spruce for camping, the dry for fire and the green for
couch, and there we halted for the night.

[Sidenote: JOHN MUIR]

Next morning we crossed the low pass and dropped down easily into the wide valley of the Koyukuk
South Fork, with a fine prospect of mountains everywhere as far as the eye could see. I had
stood and gazed upon those same mountains on my journey of the previous winter, my first winter
in Alaska, and had seen a most remarkable sight. As we began the descent and a turn of the
trail gave a new panorama of peaks I did not at first realise the nature of the peculiar phenomenon
I was gazing at. Each peak had a fine, filmy, fan-shaped cloud stretching straight out from
it into the sky, waving and shimmering as it stretched. The sun was not above the horizon,
but his rays caught these sheer, lawn-like streamers and played upon them with a most delicate
opalescent radiance. Then all at once came to my mind the recollection of a description in
John Muir's Mountains of California (surely the finest mountain book ever written) of the snow
banners of the Sierra Nevada, and I knew that I was looking at a similar spectacle. It meant
that a storm was raging on high, although so far we were sheltered from it. It meant that the
dry, sand-like snow of the mountain flanks was driven up those flanks so fiercely before the
wind that it was carried clean over them and beyond them out into the sky, and still had such
pressure behind it that it continued its course and spread out horizontally, thinning and spreading
for maybe a mile before it lost all coherence and visibility. As far as I could see mountain
peaks I could see the snow banners, all pointing one way, all waving, all luminous and shimmering
in the sun-rays. It was a very noble sight, and I gazed a long while entranced, not knowing
how ominous it was. When we reached the valley and left the shelter of the gulch we struck
the full force of that fearful gale, and for two days and nights of incessant blizzard we lay
in a hole dug out of a sand-bank (for we had no tent that year), the trail lost, the grub box
nearly empty, and no fire possible to cook anything with had the grub box been full.

The valley before us--to resume the narrative--is a high, wind-swept region of niggerhead and
swamp, the catch-basin of the South Fork of the Koyukuk River. The trail descends one of its
southern draws, follows up the main valley awhile, crosses it, and leaves by one of its northern
draws to pass over the mountains that separate its drainage from the main fork of the Koyukuk.
The cold had given place to wind, and though the gale did not approach the fierceness of last
year's storm, it gave great trouble in following the track. These high headwater basins are
always windy; the timber is scrubby spruce with many open places, and in such open places the
trail is soon obliterated altogether.

When the light fails this casting about for blazes whenever a clump of spruce is reached becomes
increasingly slow and difficult and at last becomes hopeless. The general direction determined,
it might be thought that the traveller could ignore the tracks of previous passage and strike
out for himself, but he knows that the trail, however rough, is at least practicable, whereas
an independent course may soon lead to steep gullies or cut banks, or may entangle him in some
thicket that he must resort to the axe to pass through. Moreover, even two or three passages
through the snow in the winter will give some bottom to a trail; a bottom that, when the wind-swept
areas are passed and the snow-shoes are resumed, both he and his dogs will be thankful for.

[Sidenote: CAMP MAKING]

So we made a camp as it darkened to night, not far from the spot where I had "siwashed" with
an Indian companion the previous winter, the wind blowing half a gale at 20° below zero.

Making camp under such circumstances is always a very disagreeable proceeding. It takes time
and care to make a comfortable camp, and time and care in the wind and the cold involve suffering.
Two suitable trees must be selected between which the tent is to be suspended by the ridge-rope,
and the snow must all be scraped away by the snow-shoes, or, if it be too deep, beaten down.
Then while one man unlashes and unpacks the sleds, another cuts green spruce and lays it all
over the tent space, thicker and finer where the bed is to be. Then up goes the tent, its corner
ropes and its side strings made fast to boughs, if there be such, or to stakes, or to logs
laid parallel to the sides. Then the stovepipe is jointed and the stove set up on the edge
of green billets properly shaped. Meanwhile the axe-man, the green boughs cut, has been felling
and splitting a dry tree for stove wood, and the whole proceedings are rushed and hastened
towards getting a fire in that stove. Sometimes it is a question whether we shall get a fire
before we freeze our fingers or freeze our fingers before we get a fire. The fire once going,
we are safe, for however much more work there is in the open, and there is always a good deal
more, one can go to the tent to get warm. Enough stove wood must be cut, not only for night
and morning, but for cooking the dog feed. The dog pot, filled with snow, into which the fish
are cut up, is put upon the outdoor fire as soon as man-supper begins cooking in the tent.
When it boils, the rice and tallow must be added, and when the rice has boiled twenty minutes
the whole is set aside to cool. Meanwhile the two aluminum pots full of snow, replenished from
time to time as it melts, are put upon the stove in the tent as the necessary preliminary to
cooking. Sometimes ice, and more rarely water, may be had, and then supper is hastened. If
we are camped on the river bank sometimes a steel-pointed rifle-bullet fired straight down
into the ice will penetrate to the water below and allow a little jet to bubble up. Melting
snow is a tedious business at best; but, since three times out of four when camping it must
be done, the aluminum pots are a treasure. There is still work for every one as well as the
cook. Snow must be banked all round the tent to keep out the wind. Little heaps of spruce boughs
must be cut for the dogs' beds; it is all we can do for them whatever the weather, and they
appreciate it highly. It may be that dog moccasins must be taken off and strung around the
stove to dry, and before supper is ready the inside ridge-rope of the tent is heavy with all
sorts of drying man-wear: socks, moccasins, scarfs, toques, mittens. One of the earliest habits
a man learns on the trail is to hang up everything to dry as soon as he takes it off. Why should
it be hung up to dry unless it has got wet? the writer was once asked, in detailing these operations.
Because there is no other way to remove the ice with which everything becomes incrusted in
very cold weather.

[Sidenote: CAMP COOKING]

As his snow melts the cook throws into the pot a few handfuls of evaporated potatoes, a handful
of evaporated onions, and smaller quantities of evaporated "soup vegetables," and leaves them
to soak and simmer and resume their original size and flavour. By and by he will cut up the
moose meat or the rabbits or birds, or whatever game he may have, and throw it in, and in an
hour or an hour and a half there will be a savoury stew that, with a pan of biscuits cooked
in an aluminum reflector beside the stove and a big pot of tea, constitutes the principal meal
of the day. Or if the day has been long and sleep seems more attractive even than grub, he
will turn some frozen beans, already boiled, into a frying-pan with a big lump of butter, and
when his meat is done supper is ready. Beans thus prepared eaten red hot with grated cheese
are delicious to a hungry man. With the stove for a sideboard, food may always be eaten hot,
and that is one advantage of camp fare.

The men satisfied, the dogs remain, and while two of the party wash dishes and clean up, the
third feeds the dogs. Their pot of food has been cooling for an hour or more. They will not
eat it until it is cold and a mess of rice will hold heat a long time even in the coldest weather.
When it is nearly cold it is dished out with a paddle into the individual pans and the dogs
make short work of it. There are some who feed straight fish, and, if the fish be king salmon
of the best quality, the dogs do well enough on it. But on any long run it is decidedly economical
to cook for the dogs--not so much from the standpoint of direct cost as from that of weight
and ease of hauling. An hundred pounds of fish plus an hundred pounds of rice plus fifty pounds
of tallow will go a great deal farther than two hundred and fifty pounds of fish alone. There
is little doubt, too, that in the long run the dogs do better on cooked food. It is easier
of digestion and easier to apportion in uniform rations. Rice and fish make excellent food.
The Japs took Port Arthur on rice and fish. The tallow answers a demand of the climate and
is increased as the weather grows colder. Man and dog alike require quantities of fat food
in this climate; it is astonishing how much bacon and butter one can eat. When the dogs have
eaten, and each one has made the rounds of all the other pans to be sure nothing is left, they
retire to their respective nests of spruce bough and curl themselves up with many turnings
round and much rearranging of the litter. Feet and nose are neatly tucked in, the tail is adjusted
carefully over all, the hair on the body stands straight up, and the dogs have gone to bed
and do not like to be disturbed again.

[Sidenote: DOG-HARNESS]

Therein lies the cruelty of depriving them of their tails, which used to be the general custom
in this country. The old tandem harness almost required it, as the breath of the dog behind
condensed upon the tail of the dog in front until he was carrying around permanently a mass
of ice that was a burden to him and rendered his tail useless for warmth. But the rig with
a long mid rope, to which the dogs are attached by single-trees in such manner that they may
at will be hitched abreast or one ahead of the other as the trail is wide or narrow, is superseding
the tandem rig, and one sees more bushy tails amongst the dogs. The thick, long-haired tail
of the dog in this country is indeed his blanket, and in cold weather the tailless dog is at
a great disadvantage.

It was said that all the dogs retired to the nests of spruce bough; it should have been all
but one. It is Lingo's special charge to guard the sled and his special privilege to sleep
on it. Turning around and curling up on the softest spot he can find of the unlashed and partly
unloaded toboggan, he will not touch anything it contains nor permit any other dog to touch it.

The northern skies are clouded the next morning, the first day of the new year, and there is
a ruddy dawn that is glorious to behold. The white earth gives back a soft rose tint, as an
organ pipe gives back a faint tone to the strong vibration of another pipe in pitch with it.
We shall not see the sun himself any more for many weeks, but we see his light upon the flanks
of the mountains for an hour or so around noon. The bold, shapely peaks of the South Fork of
the Koyukuk turn their snows to pink fire as his rays slowly descend their sides, and the whole
scene is exquisitely beautiful. What a wonderful thing colour is! When the skies are overcast
this is a dead black-and-white country in winter, for spruce, the prevailing wood, is black
in the mass at a little distance. Gaze where one will, there is naught but black and white.
The eye becomes tired of the monotony and longs for some warmer tone. That is surely the reason
why all those who live in the country cherish some gay article of attire, why the natives love
brilliant handkerchiefs, why the white man also will choose a crimson scarf. Trudging at the
handle-bars, I have found pleasure in the red pompons of the dogs' harness, in the gay beading
of mitten and hind-sack. And that is why a lavish feast of colour such as this dawn stirs one's
spirit with such keen delight. It gives life to a dead world.

But the wind is still bitter and interferes sadly with one's enjoyment. All through the valley,
up the creek by which we leave it, past the twin lakes on the low summit, the wind grows in
force, and when we leave Slate Creek for the present and make a "portage" over a mountain shoulder
to strike the creek again much lower down, the wind has risen to a gale that overturns the
toboggans and makes the men fight for their footing. The actual physical labour of it is enormous,
and there can be no rest; it is too bitterly cold in that blast to stop. For a mile or two
we struggle and slave to beat our way around that mountain shoulder and then drop down to the
creek again. The blessed relief it is to get out of the fury of that wind into the comparative
shelter of the creek, to be done with the ceaseless toil of holding the heavy toboggans from
hurtling down the hillside, to be able to keep one's feet without continually slipping and
falling on the wind-hardened snow, no words can adequately convey. We are all frozen again
a little; this man's nose is touched, that man's cheeks, and the other man's finger.

[Sidenote: THE KOYUKUK GOLD CAMP]

On the middle fork of the Koyukuk, at the mouth of Slate Creek, Coldfoot sits within a cirque
of rugged mountain peaks, the most northerly postal town in the interior of Alaska, the most
northerly gold-mining town in the world, as it claims. It sprang into existence in 1900 and
flourished for a season or two with the usual accompaniments of such florification. In 1906
it was already much decayed, and is now dead. Ever since its start the Koyukuk camp has steadily
produced gold and given occupation to miners numbering from one hundred and fifty to three
hundred, but the scene of operations, and therefore the depot for supplies, has continually
changed. In 1900 the chief producing creek was Myrtle, which is a tributary of Slate Creek,
and the town at the mouth was in eligible situation, though much over-built from the first.
Then the centre of interest shifted to Nolan Creek, fifteen miles farther up the river, which
is a tributary of Wiseman Creek, and the town of Wiseman sprang up at the mouth of that creek.
The post-office, the commissioner's office, and the saloon, the stores and road-houses, migrated
to the new spot, and Coldfoot was abandoned. Now the chief producing creek is the Hammond River,
still farther up the Koyukuk, and if its placer deposits prove as rich as they promise it is
likely that a town will spring up at the mouth of the Hammond which will supersede Wiseman.

There has never been found a continuous pay-streak in the Koyukuk camp. It is what is known
as a "pocket" camp. Now and again a "spot" is found which enriches its discoverers, while on
the claims above and below that spot the ground may be too poor to work at a profit; for ground
must be rich to be worked at all in the Koyukuk. It is the most expensive camp in Alaska, perhaps
in the world. This is due to its remoteness and difficulty of access. Far north of the Arctic
Circle, the diggings are about seventy-five miles above the head of light-draught steamboat
navigation, and more than six hundred miles above the confluence of the Koyukuk with the Yukon.
Transshipped at Nulato to the shoal-water steamboats that make three or four trips a season
up the Koyukuk, transshipped again at Bettles, the head of any steamboat navigation, freight
must be hauled on horse scows the remaining seventy-five miles of the journey; and all that
handling and hauling means high rates. The cost of living, the cost of machinery, the general
cost of all mining operations is much higher than on the Yukon or on the other tributaries
of that river. The very smallness of the camp is a factor in the high prices, for there is
not trade enough to induce brisk competition with the reduction of rates that competition brings.

[Sidenote: MINERS' GENEROSITY]

Yet the smallness and the isolation of the camp have their compensations. There is more community
life, more esprit de corps amongst the Koyukuk miners than will be found in any other camp
in Alaska. Thrown upon their own resources for amusement, social gatherings are more common
and are made more of, and hospitality is universal. Like all sparsely settled and frontier
lands, Alaska is a very hospitable place in general, but the Koyukuk has earned the name of
the most hospitable camp in Alaska. Since the numbers are small, and each man is well known
to all the others, any sickness or suffering makes an immediate appeal and brings a generous
response. Again and again the unfortunate victim of accident or disease has been sent outside
for treatment, the considerable money required being quickly raised by public subscription.
There is probably no other gold camp in the world where it is a common thing for the owner
of a good claim to tell a neighbour who is "broke" to take a pan and go down to the drift and
help himself.

Until my visit of the previous year no minister of religion of any sort had penetrated to the
Koyukuk, and, save for one journey thither by Bishop Rowe, my annual visits have been the only
opportunities for public worship since. It will suffice for the visit now describing as well
as for all the others to say that the reception was most cordial and the opportunity much appreciated.
We went from creek to creek and gathered the men and the few women in whatever cabin was most
convenient, and no clergyman could wish for more attentive or interested congregations.

Upon our return to Coldfoot from the creek visits the thermometer stood at 52° below zero,
although it had been no lower than 38° below when we left the last creek, some fifteen miles
away. As a general rule, the temperature on these mountain creeks, which are at some considerable
elevation above the river into which they flow, will read from 10° to 15° higher than on the
river, and if one climbed to the top of the peaks around Coldfoot, the difference then would
probably be 20° or 25°. At the summit road-house between Fairbanks and Cleary City in the Tanana
country in cold weather the thermometer commonly reads 20° above the one place and 10° or 15°
above the other.

[Sidenote: LINGO]

This interesting fact, which surprises a good many people, for we are used to think of elevated
places as cold places, is due to the greater heaviness of cold air, which sinks to the lowest
level it can reach; and the river bed is the lowest part of the country. It would be interesting
to find out to what extent this rule holds good. The ridges and the hilltops are always the
warmest places in cold weather; would this hold as regards mountain tops?--as regards high
mountain tops? Probably it would hold in the sunshine, but the rapid radiation of heat in the
rarefied atmosphere of mountain tops would swing the balance the other way after dark. There
is no doubt, however, that the coldest place in cold weather in Alaska is the river surface,
and it is on the river surface that most of our travelling is done. The night we returned to
Coldfoot we put our toboggan up high on the roof of an outhouse to keep its skin sides from
the teeth of some hungry native dogs, leaving some of the load that was not required within
it, covered by the sled cloth. Later on I saw by the light of the moon Lingo's silhouetted
figure sitting bolt upright on top of the sled, and he gave his short double bark as I drew
near to make me notice that he was still doing his duty although under difficulties. The dog
had climbed up a wood-pile and had jumped to the top of the outhouse and so to the sled. I
thought of Kipling's Men That Fought at Minden:

        "For fatigue it was their pride
         And they would not be denied
         To clean the cook-house floor."

Here at Coldfoot we came first into contact with that interesting tribe of wandering inland
Esquimaux known as the Kobuks, from their occupation of the river of that name. The Koyukuk
has its own Indian people, but these enterprising Kobuks have pushed their way farther and
farther from salt water into what used to be exclusive Indian territory. Representatives of
both races were at Coldfoot, and as we lay weather-bound for a couple of days, I was enabled
to renew last year's acquaintance with them, though without a good interpreter not much progress
was made. The delight of these people at the road-house phonograph, the first they had ever
heard, was some compensation for the incessant snarl and scream of the instrument itself. It
was very funny to see them sitting on the floor, roaring with laughter at one particularly
silly spoken record of the "Uncle Josh at the World's Fair" order. Over and over again they
would ask for that record, and it never ceased to convulse them with laughter. "He's been enjoyin'
poor health lately, but this mornin' I heard him complain that he felt a little better"--how
sick and tired we got of this and similar jokes drawled out a dozen times running! The natives
did not understand a word of it; it was the human voice with its pronounced, unusual inflections
that aroused their merriment. The phonograph is becoming a powerful agency for disseminating
a knowledge of English amongst the natives throughout Alaska, and one wishes that it were put
to better use than the reproduction of silly and often vulgar monologue and dialogue and trashy
ragtime music. As an index of the taste of those who purchase records, the selection brought
to this country points low.

The third day the thermometer stood at -49° and we were free to leave without actually breaking
the rule we had made after the escapade on the Yukon. Two other teams were going down the river,
so we started with them on the sixty-five mile journey to Bettles. Twenty miles or so below
Coldfoot the Koyukuk passes for several miles in a narrow channel between steep rock bluffs,
with here and there great detached masses standing in the middle of the river. One has a grotesque
resemblance to an aged bishop in his vestments and is known as the Bishop Rock; another a more
remote likeness to an Indian woman, and this is known as the Squaw Rock. This part of the river,
which is called the cañon of the Koyukuk, though it is not a true cañon, is very picturesque,
and because of frequent overflow, offers glare ice and swift passage to the traveller when
it does not embarrass him with running water. We were fortunate enough to pass it without getting
our dogs' feet wet, and made the half-way road-house in a brilliant moon that rendered travelling
at night pleasanter than during the day.

[Sidenote: TRAVELLING AT "50 BELOW"]

The next day we started again at near 50° below, but because there was a good trail and a road-house
for noon, the travelling was rather pleasant than otherwise. If there be a warm house to break
the day's march and eat in, where ice-incrusted scarfs and parkees and caps and mittens may
be dried out, with a warm outhouse where the dogs may rest in comfort, travelling in such weather
is not too risky or too severely trying. The continual condensation of the moisture from the
breath upon everything about the head and face is a decided inconvenience, and when it condenses
upon the eye-lashes, and the upper and the lower lashes freeze together, the ice must be removed
or it is impossible to open the eyes. This requires the momentary application of the bare hand,
and every time it goes back into the mitten it carries some moisture with it, so that after
a while mittens are wet as well as head-gear; moreover, there is always a certain perspiration
that condenses. One gets into the habit of turning the duffel lining of the moose-hide mitts
inside out and hanging them up the moment one gets inside a cabin. Round every road-house stove
there is a rack constructed for just that purpose.

There is no more striking phenomenon of the arctic trail than the behaviour of smoke in cold
weather. As one approaches a road-house, and to greater degree a village or a town, it is seen
enveloped in mist, although there be no open water to account for it, and the prospect in every
other direction be brilliantly clear. It is not mist at all; it is merely the smoke from the
stovepipes. And the explanation is simple, although not all at once arrived at. Smoke rises
because it is warmer than the air into which it is discharged; for that and no other reason.
Now, when smoke is discharged into air at a temperature of 50° below zero, it is deprived of
its heat immediately and falls to the ground by its greater specific gravity. The smoke may
be observed just issuing from the pipe, or rising but a few feet, and then curling downward
to be diffused amidst the air near the ground.

It was to such a smoke-enveloped inn that we pulled up to warm and refresh ourselves and our
team for the twenty miles that remained of the day's march. We had almost reached the limit
of Koyukuk road-houses. Bettles being the head of navigation, and merchandise late in the season
finding water too shallow for transport to the diggings, there is more or less freighting with
dog teams and horses all the winter. This travel keeps open the road-houses on the route. From
an "outside" point of view they may appear rough and the fare coarse. The night accommodation
is a double row of bunks on each side of a long room with a great stove in the middle. Sometimes
there is straw in the bunks, sometimes spruce boughs; in the better class even sometimes hay-stuffed
mattresses. But to the weary traveller, who has battled with the storm or endured the intense
cold for hours at a stretch, they are glad havens of refuge; they are often even life-saving
stations.

[Sidenote: METEOROLOGICAL]

While we lay at the road-house the clear sky clouded and the thermometer rose. This is an unfailing
sequence. Clear, bright weather is cold weather; cloudy weather is warm weather. The usual
explanation, that the cloud acts as a blanket that checks the radiation of heat from the earth,
is one of those explanations that do not explain. There is no heat to radiate. The cloud is
a mass of moist air, which is warm air, introducing itself from some milder region. So the
cloud brings the heat; and the lower layers of atmosphere extract it and thereby discharge
the moisture. For an hour or two around noon the thermometer stood at -35° and there was a
light fall of snow; then the skies cleared because they were discharged of all their moisture,
and the thermometer went down to -50° again. It is a beautifully simple process and sometimes
takes place two or three times a day. Every time the sky clouds, the thermometer rises; every
time the sky clears, the thermometer falls. And because the barometer gives notice of changes
in the density of the atmosphere, it is valuable in forecasting temperature in our winters.
A steady rise in the barometer means a steady fall in the thermometer; a fall in the barometer
in a time of great cold infallibly prophesies warmer weather; even such rapid changes as the
one given above are anticipated. So well is this established, that during "50°-below spells"
at Fairbanks, impatient, weather-bound travellers and freighters would busy the hospital telephone
with inquiries about the barometer, the hospital having the only barometer in the country.

After another long, cold run, on the night of Friday, the 12th of January, we reached Bettles,
the place we had planned to spend Christmas at. We were unable to stir from Bettles for two
solid weeks, for during the whole of that time the thermometer never rose above 50° below zero.

The long wait at Bettles would have been excessively tedious had it not been for the kind hospitality
of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Grimm, the Commercial Company's agent and his wife, and this is but
one of many times that I have been under obligation to them for cordial welcome and entertainment,
for needs anticipated, and every sort of assistance gladly rendered. We had been expected many
days; the Christmas festivities with a gathering of natives of both races had come and gone;
still they looked for us, for in this country one does not give a man up merely because he
is a few weeks behind time, nor hold him to account for unpunctuality. The natives remained
for the most part, and there was abundant opportunity of intercourse with them and some beginnings
of instruction. As the days passed and all arrangements for our advance were made, we chafed
more and more at the delay, for it was very plain that the prospect of visiting Point Hope
grew less and less; but this is a great country for teaching patience and resignation.

[Sidenote: PARASELENÆ]

Some of the weather during that two weeks' wait was of quite exceptional severity. One night
is fixed for ever in my memory. It is a very rare thing for the wind to blow in the "strong
cold," but that night there was a wind at 58° below zero. And high up in the heavens was a
sight I had never seen before. The moon, little past her full, had a great ring around her,
faintly prismatic; and equidistant from her, where a line through her centre parallel with
the horizon would cut the ring, were two other moons, distinct and clear. It was a strangely
beautiful thing, this sight of three moons sailing aloft through the starry sky, as though
the beholder had been suddenly translated to some planet that enjoys a plurality of satellites,
but no living being could stand long at gaze in that wind and that cold. A perfect paraselene
is, I am convinced, an extremely rare thing, much rarer than a perfect parhelion ("moon-cats"
my companion thought the phenomenon should be called, saving the canine simile for the sun),
for in seven years' travel I have never seen another, and the references to it in literature
are few.

The next day at noon, the sun not visible above the distant mountains, there appeared in the
sky a great shining cross of orange light, just over the sun's position, that held and shone
for nigh an hour and only faded with the twilight. It is not surprising that these appearances
should deeply impress the untutored mind and should be deemed significant and portentous; they
must deeply impress any normal mind, they are so grand and so strange. The man who has trained
his intellect until it is so stale, and starved his imagination until it is so shrivelled that
he can gaze unmoved at such spectacles, that they are insignificant to him, has but reduced
himself to the level of the dog upon whom also they make no impression--though even a dog will
howl at a great aurora. Of course we know all about them; any schoolboy can pick up a primer
of physical geography and explain the laws of refraction, and the ugly and most libellous diagram
of circles and angles that shows just how these lustrous splendours happen; but the mystery
beyond is not by one hair's breadth impaired nor their influence upon the spectator diminished.
In Alaska perhaps more than any other country it is the heavens that declare the glory of God
and the firmament that shows His handiwork, and the awestruck Indian who comes with timid inquiry
of the import of such phenomena is rightfully and scientifically answered that the Great Father
is setting a sign in the sky that He still rules, that His laws and commandments shall never
lose their force, whether in the heavens above or on the earth beneath.

[Sidenote: THE STRONG COLD]

The "strong cold" itself is an awe-inspiring thing even to those who have been familiar with
it all their lives; and a dweller in other climes, endowed with any imagination, may without
much difficulty enter into the feelings of one who experiences it for the first time. It descends
upon the earth in the brief twilight and long darkness of the dead of winter with an irresistible
power and an inflexible menace. Fifty below, sixty below, even seventy below, the thermometer
reads. Mercury is long since frozen solid and the alcohol grows sluggish. Land and water are
alike iron; utter stillness and silence usually reign. Bare the hand, and in a few minutes
the fingers will turn white and be frozen to the bone. Stand still, and despite all clothing,
all woollens, all furs, the body will gradually become numb and death stalk upon the scene.
The strong cold brings fear with it. All devices to exclude it, to conserve the vital heat
seem feeble and futile to contend with its terrible power. It seems to hold all living things
in a crushing relentless grasp, and to tighten and tighten the grip as the temperature falls.

Yet the very power of it, and the dread that accompanies it, give a certain fearful and romantic
joy to the conquest of it. A man who has endured it all day, who has endured it day after day,
face to face with it in the open, feels himself somewhat the more man for the experience, feels
himself entered the more fully into human possibilities and powers, feels an exultation that
manhood is stronger even than the strong cold. But he is a fool if ever he grow to disdain
the enemy. It waits, inexorable, for just such disdain, and has slain many at last who had
long and often withstood it.

On those rare occasions when there is any wind, any movement of the air at all, there enters
another and a different feeling. Into the menace of a power, irresistible, inflexible, but
yet insentient, there seems to enter a purposeful, vengeful evil. It pursues. The cold itself
becomes merely a condition; the wind a deadly weapon which uses that condition to deprive its
victim of all defence. The warmth which active exercise stores up, the buckler of the traveller,
is borne away. His reserves are invaded, depleted, destroyed. And then the wind falls upon
him with its sword. Of all of which we were to have instance here on the Koyukuk.

[Sidenote: "FOUND FROZEN"]

In the second week of our stay at Bettles, while Divine service was in progress in the store
building, crowded with whites and natives, the door opened and, with an inrush of cold air
that condensed the moisture at that end of the room into a cloud and shot along the floor like
steam from an engine exhaust, there entered an Indian covered with rime, his whole head-gear
one mass of white frost, his snow-shoes, just removed, under his arm, and a beaded moose-skin
wallet over his shoulder. Every eye was at once turned to him as he beat the frost from his
parkee hood and thrust it back, unwrapped fold after fold of the ice-crusted scarf from his
face, and pulled off his mittens. Seeking out the agent, he moved over to him and whispered
something in his ear. It was plain that the errand was of moment and the message disturbing,
and as I had lost the attention of the congregation and the continuity of my own discourse,
I drew things to a close as quickly as I decently could. That Indian had come seventy-five
miles on snow-shoes in one run, without stopping at all save to eat two or three times, at
a continuous temperature of 50° below zero or lower, to bring word that he had found a white
man frozen to death on the trail; and on the Koyukuk that feat will always be counted to Albert
the Pilot for righteousness. From the location and description of the dead man, there was no
difficulty in identifying him. He was a wood-chopper under contract with the company to cut
one hundred cords of steamboat wood against next summer's navigation at a spot about one hundred
miles below Bettles. He had taken down with him on the "last water" enough grub for about three
months, and was to return to Bettles for Christmas and for fresh supplies. After a day or two's
rest the Indian was sent back with instructions to bring the body to a native village we should
visit, to whipsaw lumber for a coffin and dig a grave, and we engaged to give the body Christian
burial.

Uneasy at the softening muscles and sinews of this long inaction, I took snow-shoes and a couple
of Kobuks one day and made an ascent of the hill behind Bettles known as Lookout Mountain,
because from its top the smoke of the eagerly expected first steamboat of the summer may be
seen many miles down the river; being moved to that particular excursion by dispute among the
weather-bound freighters as to the hill's height.

The change of temperature as we climbed the hill was striking. On the first shoulder we were
already out of the dense atmosphere of the valley and above the smoke gloom of the houses,
and as we rose the air grew milder and milder, until at the top we emerged into the first sunshine
of many weeks and were in an altogether different climate--balmy and grateful it was to us
just come up from the strong cold. The aneroid showed the altitude about seven hundred feet
above Bettles, and I regretted very much I had not brought the thermometer as well, for its
reading would have been most interesting.

The view from the top was brilliantly clear and far-reaching. The broad plain across the river
was checkered black and white with alternating spruce thickets and lakes; beyond it and the
mountains that bounded it lay the valley of the south fork which we had crossed fifty or sixty
miles farther up on our journey hither. Right in front of us the middle fork made its big bend
from southwest to south, and to the left, that is, to the north, the valley of the John River
opened up its course through the sharp white peaks of the Endicott Mountains. It was in this
direction that my eyes lingered longest. I knew that sixty or seventy miles up this river we
could cross the low Anaktuvak Pass into the Anaktuvak River, which flows into the Colville,
and that descending the Colville we could reach the shores of the Northern Ocean. It was a
journey I had wished to make--and have wished ever since. There are many bands of Esquimaux
on that coast, never visited save by those who make merchandise of them in one way or another.
Please God, some day I should get there; meanwhile our present hopes lay west, though, indeed,
these grew daily fainter. Our Indian guide had been sent back to Fort Yukon from Coldfoot,
and here we engaged a young Esquimau with his dog team and sled, to go across to Kotzebue Sound
with us. There was also a young Dane who wished to go from the Koyukuk diggings to the diggings
at Candle Creek on the Seward Peninsula, and him we were willing to feed in return for his
assistance on the trail. The supplies had been carefully calculated for the journey, the toboggans
were already loaded, and we waited but a break in the cold weather to start.

Our course from Bettles would lead us sixty-five miles farther down the Koyukuk to the mouth
of the Alatna. The visit to the native village and the burial of the poor fellow frozen to
death would take us ten miles farther down than that, and we would return to the Alatna mouth.
Then the way would lie for fifty miles or so up that stream, and then over a portage, across
to the Kobuk River, which we should descend to its mouth in Kotzebue Sound; the whole distance
being about five hundred miles through a very little travelled country. We learned indeed,
that it had been travelled but once this winter, and that on the first snow. It was thought
at Bettles that we might possibly procure some supplies at a newly established mission of the
Society of Friends about half-way down the Kobuk River, but there was no certainty about it,
and we must carry with us enough man-food to take us to salt water. Our supply of dog fish
we might safely count upon replenishing from the natives on the Kobuk. Another thing that caused
some thought was the supply of small money. There was no silver and no currency except large
bills on the Koyukuk, and we should need money in small sums to buy fish with. So the agent
weighed out a number of little packets of gold-dust carefully sealed up in stout writing-paper
like medicine powders, some worth a dollar, some worth two dollars, the value written on the
face, and we found them readily accepted by the natives and very convenient. Two years later
I heard of some of those packets, unbroken, still current on the Kobuk.

At last, on the 26th of January, we got away. The thermometer stood only a few degrees above
-50° when we left, but the barometer had been falling slowly for a couple of days, and I was
convinced the cold spell was over. With our three teams and four men we made quite a little
expedition, but dogs and men were alike soft, and for the first two days the travel was laborious
and slow; then came milder weather and better going.

[Sidenote: THE KOYUKUK "TOWNS" OF '98]

We passed the two ruined huts of Peavey, the roofs crushed by the superincumbent snow. In the
summer of 1898 a part of the stream of gold seekers, headed for the Klondike by way of Saint
Michael, was deflected to the Koyukuk River by reports of recent discoveries there. A great
many little steamboat outfits made their way up this river late in the season, until their
excessive draught in the falling water brought them to a stand. Where they stopped they wintered,
building cabins and starting "towns." In one or two cases the "towns" were electrically lit
from the steamboat's dynamo. The next summer they all left, all save those who were wrecked
by the ice, and the "towns" were abandoned. But they had got upon the map through some enterprising
representative of the land office, and they figure on some recent maps still. Peavey, Seaforth,
Jimtown, Arctic City, Beaver City, Bergman, are all just names and nothing else, though at
Bergman the Commercial Company had a plant for a while.

We passed the mouth of the Alatna, where were two or three Indian cabins, and went on the remaining
ten miles to Moses' Village, where the body of the man frozen to death had been brought. Moses'
Village, named from the chief, was the largest native village on the Koyukuk River, and we
were glad, despite our haste, that we had gone there. The repeated requests from all the Indians
we met for a mission and school on the Koyukuk River and the neglected condition of the people
had moved me the previous year to take up the matter. This was my first visit, however, so
far down the river.

We found the coffin unmade and the grave undug, and set men vigorously to work at both. The
frozen body had been found fallen forward on hands and feet, and since to straighten it would
be impossible without several days' thawing in a cabin, the coffin had to be of the size and
shape of a packing-case; of course the ground for the grave had to be thawed down, for so are
all graves dug in Alaska, and that is a slow business. A fire is kindled on the ground, and
when it has burned out, as much ground as it has thawed is dug, and then another fire is kindled.
We had our own gruesome task. The body should be examined to make legally sure that death came
from natural causes. With difficulty the clothes were stripped from the poor marble corpse,
my companion made the examination, and as a notary public I swore him to a report for the nearest
United States commissioner. This would furnish legal proof of death were it ever required;
otherwise, since there is no provision for the travelling expenses of coroners, and the nearest
was one hundred and forty or one hundred and fifty miles away, there would have been no inquest
and no such proof.

[Sidenote: A WILDERNESS TRAGEDY]

The man had delayed his return to Bettles too long. When his food was exhausted and he had
to go, there came on that terrible cold spell. A little memorandum-book in his pocket told
the pitiful story. Day by day he lingered hoping for a change, and day by day there was entry
of the awful cold. He had no thermometer, but he knew the temperature was -50° or lower by
the cracking noise that his breath made--the old-timer's test. At last the grub was all gone
and he must go or starve. The final entry read: "All aboard to-morrow, hope to God I get there."
The Indians estimated that he had been walking two days, and had "siwashed it" at night somewhere
beside a fire in the open without bedding. Holes were burned in his breeches in two places,
where, doubtless, he had got too near the fire. He had nothing whatever to eat with him save
a piece of bacon gnawed to the rind. There were only two matches in his pocket, and they were
mixed up with trash of birch-bark and tobacco, so it is likely he did not know he had them.
He had lit all the fires he could light and eaten all the food he had to eat. Still he was
plugging along towards the native village nine miles away. Then he lost the trail, probably
in the dark, for it was faint and much drifted, and had taken off his snow-shoes to feel with
his moccasined feet for the hardened snow that would indicate it. That was almost the end.
He had gone across the river and back again, feeling for the trail, and then, with the deadly
numbness already upon his brain, had wandered in a circle. The date of his starting in the
memorandum-book and the distance travelled made it almost certain that, at some moment between
the time when those three moons floated in the sky and the time when that cross glared on the
horizon, he had fallen in the snow, never to rise again. Fifty-eight below zero and a wind blowing!

One supposes that the actual death by freezing is painless, as it is certainly slow and gradual.
The only instance of sudden gelation I ever heard of is in Longfellow's "Wreck of the Hesperus,"
where the skipper, having answered one question, upon being asked another,

        "Answered never a word,
         For a frozen corpse was he."

But if the actual death be painless, the long conscious fight against it must be an agony;
for a man of any experience must realise the peril he is in. The tingling in fingers and toes
and then in knees and elbows is a warning he recognises only too well. He knows that, unless
he can restore warmth by restoring the circulation, he is as good as frozen already. He increases
his pace and beats his arms against his breast. But if his vitality be too much reduced by
hunger and fatigue and cold to make more than a slight response to the stimulation, if the
distance to warmth and shelter be too great for a spurt to carry him there, he is soon in worse
case than before. Then the appalling prospect of perishing by the cold must rise nakedly before
him. The enemy is in the breach, swarming over the ramparts, advancing to the heart of the
fortress, not to be again repelled. He becomes aware that his hands and feet are already frozen,
and presently there may be a momentary terrible recognition that his wits begin to wander.
Frantically he stumbles on, thrashing his body with his arms, forcing his gait to the uttermost,
a prey to the terror that hangs over him, until his growing horror and despair are mercifully
swallowed up in the somnolent torpidity that overwhelms him. All of us who have travelled in
cold weather know how uneasy and apprehensive a man becomes when the fingers grow obstinately
cold and he realises that he is not succeeding in getting them warm again. It is the beginning
of death by freezing.

We buried the body on a bench of the bluff across the river from the native village, the natives
all standing around reverently while the words of committal were said, and set up a cross marked
with lead-pencil: "R. I. P.--Eric Ericson, found frozen, January, 1906." Two or three years
later a friend sent me a small bronze tablet with the same legend, and that was affixed to
the cross. There are many such lonely graves in Alaska, for scarce a winter passes that does
not claim its victims in every section of the country. That same winter we heard of two men
frozen on the Seward Peninsula, two on the Yukon, one on the Tanana, and one on the Valdez
trail. This day I recorded a temperature of 10°, the first plus temperature in thirty-nine
days, and that previous rise above zero was the first in twenty days.

[Sidenote: NEGLECTED NATIVES]

That night we gathered all the natives, and after long speech with poor interpretation I ventured
to promise them a mission the next year. Some of them had been across to the Yukon years before
and had visited the mission at Tanana. Some had been baptized there. Some had never seen a
clergyman or missionary of any sort before, and had never heard the gospel preached. We were
touched by one old blind woman who told of a visit to a mission on the Yukon, and how she learned
to sing a hymn there. Her son interpreted: "She say every night she sing that hymn for speak
to God." She was encouraged to sing it, and it turned out to be the alphabet set to a tune!
After much pleading and with some hesitation, I baptized seventeen children, comforting myself
with the assurance of the coming mission, which would undertake their Christian training and
instruction.

Back next day at the mouth of the Alatna, I was again impressed with the eligibility of that
spot as a mission site. It was but ten miles above the present native village, and, with church
and school established, the whole population would sooner or later move to it. This gives opportunity
for regulating the building of cabins, and the advantage of a new, clean start. Moreover, the
Alatna River is the highway between the Kobuk and the Koyukuk, and the Esquimaux coming over
in increasing numbers, would be served by a mission at this place as well as the Indians. I
foresaw two villages, perhaps, on the opposite sides of the river--one clustered about the
church and the school, the other a little lower down--where these ancient hereditary enemies
might live side by side in peace and harmony under the firm yet gentle influence of the church.
So I staked a mission site, and set up notices claiming ground for that purpose, almost opposite
the mouth of the Alatna, which, in the native tongue, is Allakaket or Allachaket.

[Sidenote: THE INLAND ESQUIMAUX]

There was some trail up the Alatna and we made fair headway on its surface, stopping two nights
at Kobuk huts. We are out of the Indian country now, and shall see no more Indians until we
are back on the Yukon. The mode of life, the habits, the character of the races are very different--the
first Esquimau habitation we visited proclaiming it. These inland Esquimaux, though some of
the younger ones have never seen salt water--our guide, Roxy, for one--are still essentially
a salt-water people. Their huts, even in the midst of trees, are half-underground affairs,
for they have not learned log-building; the windows are of seal gut, and seal oil is a staple
article of their diet. Their clothing is also marine, their parkees of the hair-seal and their
mukluks of the giant seal. Communications are always kept up with the coast, and the sea products
required are brought across. The time for the movement of the Kobuks back and forth was not
quite yet, though we hoped we should meet some parties and get the benefit of their trail.
Just before we left the Alatna River we stopped at Roxy's fish cache and got some green fish,
hewing them out of the frozen mass with the axe. The young man had fished here the previous
summer, had cached the fish caught too late to dry in the sun, and they had remained where
he left them for four or five months. Most of them had begun to decay before they froze, but
that did not impair their value as dog food, though it rendered the cooking of them a disagreeable
proceeding to white nostrils. This caching of food is a common thing amongst both natives and
whites, and it is rarely that a cache is violated except under great stress of hunger, when
violation is recognised as legitimate. Doughty, in his Arabia Deserta, mentions the same custom
amongst the Arabs; Sven Hedin amongst the Tartars. Sparsely peopled waste countries have much
the same customs all over the world. Even the outer garb in the Oriental deserts has much resemblance
to our parkee; both burnoose and parkee are primarily windbreaks, and it makes little difference
whether the wind be charged with snow or sand.

At midday on the 3d of February we left the Alatna River and took our way across country for
the Kobuk. We had now no trail at all save what had been made a couple of months before by
the only other party that had crossed the portage this winter, and it was buried under fifteen
or sixteen inches of snow. There was quite a grade to be climbed to reach the plateau over
which our course lay, and the men, with rope over the shoulder, had to help the dogs hauling
at the sled. Indeed, over a good deal of this portage, from time to time, the men had to do
dog work, for the country is rolling, one ridge succeeding another, and the loose, deep snow
made heavy and slow going. One man must go ahead breaking trail, and that was generally my
task, though when the route grew doubtful and the indications too faint for white man's eye,
Roxy took my place and I took his gee pole, and slipped his rope around my chest.

Breaking trail would not be so laborious if one could wear the large snow-shoes that are used
for hunting. But the hunting shoe, though it carries the man without fatigue, does not help
the dogs. The small shoe known as the trail shoe, packs the snow beneath it, and by the time
the trail breaker has gone forward, then back again, and then forward once more, the snow is
usually packed hard enough to give the dogs some footing. Footing the dog must have or he cannot
pull; a dog wallowing in snow to his belly cannot exert much traction on the vehicle behind
him. The notion of snow-shoeing as a sport always seems strange to us on the trail, for to
us it is a laborious necessity and no sport at all. The trail breaker thus goes over most of
the ground thrice, and when he is anxious at the same time to get a fairly accurate estimate
by the pedometer of the distance travelled, he must constantly remember to upend the instrument
in his pocket when he retraces his steps, and restore it to its recording position when he
attacks unbroken snow again. Also he must take himself unawares, so to speak, from time to
time, and check the length of his stride with the tape measure and alter the step index as
the varying surfaces passed over require. Conscientiously used, with due regard to its limitations,
the pedometer will give a fair approximation of the length of a journey, but a man can no more
tell how far he has gone by merely hanging a pedometer in his pocket than he can tell the height
above sea-level of an inland mountain by merely carrying an aneroid barometer to the top.

[Sidenote: THE SUNRISE AND THE MOUNTAINS]

It was on this Alatna-Kobuk portage that we saw the most magnificent sunrise any of us could
remember. It had been cloudy for some days with threat of snow which did not fall. We were
camped in a little hollow between two ridges, and I had been busy packing up the stuff in the
tent preparatory to the start, when I stepped out with a load of bedding in my arms, right
into the midst of the spectacle. It was simple, as the greatest things are always simple, but
so gorgeous and splendid that it was startling. The whole southeastern sky was filled with
great luminous bands of alternate purple and crimson. At the horizon the bands were deeper
in tone and as they rose they grew lighter, but they maintained an unmixed purity of contrasting
colour throughout. I gazed at it until the tent was struck and the dogs hitched and it was
time to start, and then I had to turn my back upon it, for our course lay due west, and I was
breaking trail. But on the crest of the rising ground ahead there burst upon my delighted eyes
a still more astonishing prospect. We were come to the first near view of the Kobuk mountains,
and the reflected light of that gorgeous sunrise was caught by the flanks of a group of wild
and lofty snow peaks, and they stood up incandescent, with a vivid colour that seemed to come
through them as well as from them. To right and left, mountains out of the direct path of that
light gave a soft dead mauve, but these favoured peaks, bathed from base to summit in clear
crimson effulgence, glowed like molten metal. It was not the reflected light of the sun, but
of the flaming sky, for even as I looked, a swift change came over them. They passed through
the tones of red to lightest pink, not fading but brightening, and before my companions reached
me the sun's rays sprang upon the mountains from the horizon, and they were golden.

It seems almost foolish to the writer and may well seem tedious to the reader, to attempt in
words the description of such scenes; yet so deep is the impression they produce, and so large
the place they take in the memory, that to omit them would be to strike out much of the charm
and zest of these arctic journeys. Again and again in the years that have passed, the recollection
of that pomp of colour on the way to the Kobuk has come suddenly upon me, and always with a
bounding of the spirit. I can shut my eyes now and see that incomparable sunrise; I can see
again that vision of mountains filling half the sky with their unimaginable ardency, and I
think that this world never presented nobler sight. Surely for its pageantry of burning, living
colour, for purity and depth and intensity of tint, the Far North with its setting of snow
surpasses all other regions of the earth.

[Sidenote: TRAVELLING KOBUK LADS]

That same day we met a couple of Kobuk youths on their way to the Koyukuk, and they gave us
the greatest gift it was in the power of man to give us--a trail! There is no finer illustration
of the mutual service of man to man than the meeting of parties going opposite ways across
the unbroken snows. Each is at once conferring and receiving the greatest of favours, without
loss to himself is heaping benefit on the other; is, it may be--has often been--saving the
other, and being himself saved. No more hunting and peering for blazes, no more casting about
hither and thither when open stretches are crossed; no more three times back and forth to beat
the snow down--twenty miles a day instead of ten or twelve--the boys' trail meant all that
to us. And our trail meant almost as much to them. So we were rejoiced to see them, sturdy
youths of sixteen or seventeen, making the journey all by themselves. My heart goes out to
these adventurous Kobuks, amiable, light-hearted, industrious; keen hunters, following the
mountain-sheep far up where the Indian will not go; adepts in all the wilderness arts; heirs
of the uncharted arctic wastes, and occupying their heritage. If I were not a white man I would
far rather be one of these nomadic inland Esquimaux than any other native I know of.

That same day we crossed two headwater forks of the Kokochatna, as the Kobuks call it, or the
Hogatzitna as the Koyukuks call it, or the Hog River, as the white men call it, a tributary
of the Koyukuk that comes in about one hundred and fifty miles below the Alatna. As we came
down a steep descent to the little east fork, it showed so picturesque and attractive, with
clumps of fine open timber on an island, that it remains in my mind one of the many places
from the Grand Cañon of the Colorado almost to the Grand Cañon of the Noatak, where I should
like to have a lodge in the vast wilderness.

We had but crossed the west fork when we knew that we were close to the watershed between the
Kobuk and the Koyukuk, between the streams that fall into Kotzebue Sound and those that fall
by the Koyukuk and the Yukon Rivers into Bering Sea; and because it seemed a capital geographic
feature, it was disappointing that it was so inconspicuous. Indeed, we were not sure which
of two ridges was the actual divide. Beyond those ridges there was no question, for the ground
sloped down to Lake Noyutak, a body of water some three and a half miles in length and of varying
breadth that drains into the Kobuk. Here in a cabin we found three more young Kobuks, and spent
the night, getting our first view of the Kobuk River next day, not from an eminence, as I had
hoped, but only as we came down a bank through thick timber and opened suddenly upon it. By
the pedometer I made the portage forty-six miles.

[Sidenote: THE KOBUK RIVER]

The upper Kobuk is a picturesque river, the timber being especially large and handsome for
interior Alaska. We reached it just above the mouth of the Reed River, tributary from the north.
The weather was warm--too warm for good travelling--the thermometer standing at 15­­­°, 20°,
and one day even 30° above zero all day long, so that we were all bareheaded and in our shirt-sleeves.
From time to time, as the course of the river varied, we had distant views of the rocky mountains
of the Endicott Range, or, as it might be written, the Endicott Range of the Rocky Mountains,
for such, in fact, it is--the western and final extension of the great American cordillera.
On the other side of those mountains was the Noatak River, flowing roughly parallel with the
Kobuk, and discharging into the same arm of the sea.

The division of the labour of camping amongst four gave us all some leisure at night, and I
found time to read through again The Cloister and the Hearth and Westward Ho! with much pleasure,
quite agreeing with Sir Walter Besant's judgment that the former is one of the best historical
novels ever written. There are few more attractive roysterers in literature to me than Denys
of Burgundy, with his "Courage, camarades, le diable est mort!" This matter of winter reading
is a difficult one, because it is impossible to carry many books. My plan is to take two or
three India-paper volumes of classics that have been read before, and renew my acquaintance
with them. But reading by the light of one candle, though it sufficed our forefathers, is hard
on our degenerate eyes.

The days were much lengthened now, and the worst of the winter was done. There would still
be cold and storm, but hardly again of the same intensity and duration. When the traveller
gets well into February he feels that the back of the winter is broken, for nothing can take
from him the advantage of the ever-lengthening days, the ever-climbing sun.

On the afternoon of the third day on the Kobuk we reached a cabin occupied by two white men,
the first we had seen since we left Bettles, and we were the first white men they had seen
all the winter. They were waiting for the spring, having a prospecting trip in view; simply
spending the winter eating up their grub. There was nothing whatever to read in the cabin,
and they had been there since the freeze-up! They welcomed us, and we stayed overnight with
them, and that night there was a total eclipse of the moon, of which we had a fine view. We
had an almanac which gave the time of totality at Sitka, and we knew the approximate longitude
of our position, so we were able to set our watches by it.

The next two days are noted in my diary as two of the pleasantest days of the whole journey--two
of the pleasantest days I ever spent anywhere, I think. A clear, cloudless sky, brilliant sunshine,
white mountain peaks all about us, gave picture after picture, and the warm, balmy air made
travelling a delight. There are few greater pleasures than that of penetrating into a new country,
with continually changing views of beauty, under kindly conditions of weather and trail. In
the yellow rays of the early sun, the spruce on the river bank looked like a screen of carved
bronze, while the slender stems of birches in front of the spruce looked like an inlaying of
old ivory upon the bronze, the whole set upon its pedestal of marble-like snow. The second
day we took a portage of nine or ten miles across a barren flat and struck the river again
just below a remarkable stretch of bank a mile or so in length, with never a tree or a bush
or so much as the smallest shrub growing on it. Thick timber above suddenly ceased, thick timber
below suddenly began again, and this bare bank reached back through open, barren flat to a
low pass in the mountains. It was a bank of solid ice, so we were told later, and I remembered
to have heard of ice bluffs on the Kobuk, and wished that the portage had struck the river
above this spot instead of below it, that there might have been opportunity to examine it.

[Sidenote: THE MISSION]

[Sidenote: ENGLISH AND ESQUIMAU]

A little farther down the river and we were at the new mission of the Society of Friends, where
a cordial reception awaited us and, luxury of luxuries, a warm bath! Again and again the wash-tub
was emptied and fresh water was heated until we all had wallowed to our heart's content. The
rude log buildings of the mission had been begun the previous fall, and were not yet complete,
but they were advanced enough for occupation, and the work of the mission went actively on.
It was in charge of rather an extraordinary man. He gave us a sketch of his life, which was
full of interest and matter for thought. For many years he was a police officer and jailer
in the West. Then he sailed on a whaler and thus became acquainted with the Esquimaux. He was
converted from a life of drunkenness and debauchery--though one fancied his character was not
really ever so bad as he painted it--at a "Peniel" mission in a Californian town. He went in
out of mere idle curiosity, just recovered from a spree, and was so wrought upon that when
he came out he was a different creature, a new man, the old life with its appetite for vicious
indulgence sloughed off and left behind him, and he now possessed with a burning desire to
do some such active service for God as aforetime he had done for the devil. After three or
four months of some sort of training in an institution maintained by the California Society
of Friends--a body more like the Salvation Army, one judges, than the old Quakers--he volunteered
for service at a branch which the old-established mission of the Society at the mouth of the
Kobuk desired to plant two hundred miles or so up the river, and had come out and had plunged
at once into his task. So here he was, some six or seven months installed, teacher, preacher,
trader in a small way, and indefatigable worker in general. Pedagogical training or knowledge
of "methods" he had none at all, but the root of the matter was in him, and surely never was
such an insatiable school-teacher. Morning, noon, and night he was teaching. While he was cooking
he was hearing lessons; while he was washing the dishes and cleaning the house he was correcting
exercises in simple addition. In the schoolroom he was full of a genial enthusiasm that seemed
to impart instruction by sheer dynamic force. "Boot," the lesson book said. There was no boot
in the schoolroom, all were shod in mukluks. He dives into his dwelling-house attachment and
comes back holding up a boot. "Boot," he says, and "boot" they all repeat. Presently the word
"tooth" was introduced in the lesson. Withdrawing a loose artificial tooth of the "pivot" variety
from his upper jaw, he holds it aloft and "tooth!" he cries out, and "toot!" they all cry,
and he claps it back into his head again.

We were present on Sunday at the services. There was hearty singing of "Pentecostal" hymns
with catchy refrains, but we were compelled to notice again what we had noticed amongst the
little bands of these people on the Koyukuk when we set them to singing, that the English was
unintelligible; and since it conveyed no meaning to us could have had little for them. This
is the inevitable result of ignoring the native tongue and adopting the easy expedient of teaching
the singing of hymns and the recitation of formulas like the commandments in English. For a
generation or two, at least, the English learned, save by children at a boarding-school, where
nothing but English is spoken, is fragmentary and of doubtful import in all except the commonest
matters of speech. And at such boarding-schools there is danger of the real misfortune and
drawback of natives growing up to live their lives amongst natives, ignorant of the native
tongue. There is no quick and easy way of stamping out a language, thank God; there is no quick
and easy way of imparting instruction in a foreign language. By and by all the Alaskan natives
will be more or less bilingual, but the intimate speech and the most clearly understood speech
will still be the mother tongue. The singing done, there was preaching through an interpreter,
and then each individual present "gave testimony," which consisted for the most part in the
recitation of a text of Scripture. Then there were individual prayers by one and another of
the congregation, and then some more singing. The only hymn I could find in the book that I
knew was the fine old hymn, "How Firm a Foundation," and that was sung heartily to the "Adeste
Fideles." They are naturally a musical race, picking up airs with great facility, and they
thoroughly enjoy singing.

[Sidenote: THE "DOUBLE STANDARD"]

After the service the missionary confided some of his troubles to me. He had lately learned
through his interpreter that the burden of most of the individual prayers was that the supplicator
might "catch plenty skins" and be more successful in hunting than his fellows; and though he
had done his best to impress upon them the superior importance of making request for spiritual
benefit, he was afraid they had made no change. "Our people 'outside,'" he said, "don't understand
these folk, and I'm not sure that I thoroughly understand them myself." "They're all 'converted,'"
he said; "they all claim to have experienced a change of heart, but some of them I know are
not living like converted people, and sometimes I have my doubts about most of them." My sympathy
went out to him in his loneliness and his earnestness and his disappointments. I pointed out
that the emotional response to emotional preaching was comparatively easy to get from any primitive
people, but that to change their whole lives, to uproot old customs of sensual indulgence,
to engraft new ideas of virtue and chastity was a long, slow process anywhere in the world.
It was chiefly in the matter of sexual morality that his doubts and difficulties lay, and I
was able to assure him that his experience was but the common experience of all those who had
laboured for the uplifting of savage people. Indeed, how should it be otherwise? Until quite
lately there was almost promiscuous use of women. A man receiving a traveller in his dwelling
overnight proffered his wife as a part of his hospitality; the temporary interchange of wives
was common; young men and young women gratified themselves without rebuke; children were valuable
however come by, and there was no special distinction between legitimate and illegitimate offspring.
As one reflects on these conditions and then looks back upon conditions amongst white people,
it would seem that all the civilised races have done is to set up a double standard of sexual
morality as against the single standard of the savage. It can hardly be claimed that the average
white man is continent, or even much more continent than the average Esquimau, but he has forced
continence upon the greater part of his women, reserving a dishonoured remnant for his own
irresponsible use. And there are signs that some of those who nowadays inveigh against the
white man's double standard are in reality desirous of substituting, not the single standard
of the Christian ideal, but the single standard of the savage. In the mining camps the prostitute
has a sort of half-way-recognised social position, and in polite parlance is referred to as
a "sporting lady"--surely the most horribly incongruous phrase ever coined; she often marries
a miner who will tell you that she is as good as he is, and she is received afterwards by all
but a few as a "respectable married woman."

There had been some trouble of this sort at this mission. The great northern gold seekers'
wave of '97 and '98 threw a numerous band of prospectors up the Kobuk as well as up the Koyukuk.
The wave had receded and left on the Kobuk but one little pool behind it, a handful of men
who found something better than "pay" on the Shungnak, a few miles away. And there was much
criticism of the missionary's methods amongst them. Word of the arrival of strangers had brought
some of them to Long Beach, and on Sunday night I had opportunity of addressing them, with
a view to enlisting their sympathy, if possible. What if mistakes were made, what if some of
the methods employed were open to question? Here was a man who beyond doubt was earnestly labouring
in the best way he knew for the improvement of these natives. Such an effort demanded the co-operation
of every right-feeling man.

[Sidenote: PERSONAL CLEANLINESS]

After all, however grand the physical scenery, the meteorological phenomena, may be, the people
of any country are the most interesting thing in it, and we found these Esquimaux extraordinarily
interesting. Dirty they certainly are; it is almost impossible for dwellers in the arctic regions
to be clean in the winter, and the winter lasts so long that the habit of winter becomes the
habit of the year. White and native alike accept a lower standard of personal cleanliness than
is tolerated outside. I remember asking Bishop Rowe, before I came to Alaska: "What do you
do about bathing when you travel in the winter?" To which he replied laconically: "Do without."
It is even so; travellers on the Alaskan trails as well as natives belong to the "great unwashed."
In the very cold weather the procuring of water in any quantity is a very difficult thing even
for house dwellers. Every drop of it has to be carried from a water-hole cut far out on the
ice, up a steep grade, and then quite a little distance back to the dwelling--for we do not
build directly upon these eroding banks. The water-hole is continually freezing up and has
to be continually hewed free of ice, and as the streams dwindle with the progress of winter,
new holes must be cut farther and farther out. On the trail, where snow must usually be melted
for water, it is obvious that bathing is out of the question; even the water for hands and
face is sparingly doled by the cook, and two people will sometimes use the same water rather
than resort to the painful though efficient expedient of washing with snow. If this be so despite
aluminum pots and a full kit of camp vessels, it is much more so with the native, whose supply
of pots and pans is very limited. I have seen a white man melt snow in a frying-pan, wash hands
and face in it, throw it out, fry bacon and beans in it, then melt more snow and wash his cup
and plate in it. There is, however, this to be said anent the disuse of the bath in this country,
that in cold weather most men perspire very little indeed, and the perspiration that is exuded
passes through to the outer garments and is immediately deposited upon them as frost; and there
is this further to be said about dirt in general, that one blessed property of the cold is
to kill all odours.

One grows tolerant of dirt in this country; there is no denying it, and it is well that it
is so; otherwise one would be in a chronic state of disgust with oneself and every one else.
So the dirt of the native, unless specially prominent and offensive, is accepted as a matter
of course and ignored. This obstacle overcome, the Esquimaux are an attractive and most interesting
race, and compare to advantage with the Indians in almost every particular. They are a very
industrious people. Go into an Esquimau's hut at almost any time when they are not sleeping,
and you will find every individual occupied at some task. Here is a man working in wood or
bone with the ingenious tools they have evolved; here are women working in skin or fur, and
some of them are admirable needlewomen; here, perhaps, is another woman chewing mukluks--and
many a white man who has kept his feet dry in overflow water is grateful to the teeth that
do not disdain this most effective way of securing an intimate union between sole and upper.
Even the children are busy: here is a boy whittling out bow and arrow--and they do great execution
amongst rabbits and ptarmigan with these weapons that entail no cost of powder and shot; here
is a girl beating out threads from sinew with a couple of flat stones. Some of us, troubled
with unconscientious tailors, wish that a law could be passed requiring all buttons to be sewn
on with sinew--they never come off.

[Sidenote: A LIGHT-HEARTED FOLK]

They are a very light-hearted people, easily amused, bubbling over with laughter and merriment,
romping and skylarking with one another at every intermission of labour. One of my white travelling
companions on this journey was in the habit of using a little piece of rabbit skin to protect
his nose in cold or windy weather. The care of the nose is sometimes very troublesome indeed,
it freezes more readily than any other portion of the body; and a little piece of rabbit skin,
moistened and applied to the nose, will stay there and keep it warm and comfortable all day.
But it does not exactly enhance one's personal attractions.

We had stopped for camp and were all together for the first time in four or five hours, when
Roxy noticed this rabbit-skin nose protector, upon which the breath had condensed all the afternoon
until two long icicles depended from it, one on each side, reaching down below the mouth; and
he fell straightway into a fit of laughter that grew uncontrollable; he rolled on the snow
and roared. A little annoyed at this exhibition, I spoke sharply: "What's the matter with you,
Roxy; what on earth are you cutting up like that for?" Checking himself for a moment, he pointed
to my companion and said, "Alleesame walrus," and went off into another paroxysm of laughter,
rolling about and roaring. At intervals all the evening he would break out again, and when
we sat down to eat it overcame him once more and he rushed outside where he could give vent
to his mirth with less offence.

The boy was straightforward and conscientious. We were camped over Sunday once, and Roxy had
noticed many marten tracks in the neighbourhood. He had brought a few traps along with him
to set out as we went and pick up on his return, and he wanted to know if I thought he might
set some that day, although it was the day of rest. Careful not to interfere in any way with
the religious instruction any native has received from any source, I told him that was a matter
for him to decide himself; that each man was responsible for his own conduct. The boy thought
awhile--and he did not set his traps. Now that young man had never received any instruction
at a mission; all his teaching had been from other Esquimaux. This same question of working
on Sunday was the cause of some of the difficulty between the missionary at Long Beach and
the miners at Shungnak. The sluicing or "cleaning-up" season is short, and mining operators
generally consider that they cannot afford to lose an hour of it. The Kobuks employed by these
miners quit their work on Sunday, and that brought the operations to a standstill. There was
something to be said on the miners' side, but I rejoiced that the Esquimau boys showed such
steadfastness to their teaching. "If you cannot use them six days in the week, if it has to
be seven or none, then do as the miners on the Yukon side do, consider the country uninhabited,
and make your arrangements as though there were no Kobuks." That was my advice, and this may
be read in connection with Mr. Stefanson's caustic comments on the same rigidity of observance.

We left Long Beach with a grateful feeling for the hospitality with which we had been received
and with a substantial respect for the earnest missionary effort that was being put forth there.
We were able to replenish our grub supply and also to exchange our two toboggans for one large
sled, for we were out of the toboggan country again and they had already become a nuisance,
slipping and sliding about on the trail. Our host was up early with a good breakfast for us,
and speeded the parting guest, which on the trail is certainly an essential part of true hospitality,
with all the honours; the natives lined up on the bank and the younger ones running along with
us for a few hundred yards.

[Sidenote: THE JADE MOUNTAINS]

Soon after we left the mission we went up a series of terraces to a desolate, barren, wind-swept
flat, the portage across which cut off a great bend of the river and saved us many miles of
travel. To our right rose the Jade Mountains, whence the supply of this stone which used to
be of importance for arrow-heads and other implements was obtained and carried far and wide.
A light crust on the snow broke through at every step, though the snow was not deep enough
and the ground too uneven to make snow-shoes useful; so we all had more or less sore feet that
night when we regained the river and made our camp near the mouth of the Ambler, another tributary
from the north.

The next day was an exceedingly long, tedious day. The Kobuk River, which in its upper reaches
is a very picturesque stream, began now to be as monotonous as the lower Yukon. It had grown
to considerable size, and the bends to be great curves of many miles at a stretch, one of which,
a decided bend to the north of the general westerly direction of the river, we were three full
hours in passing down. It was while traversing this bend that we witnessed a singular mirage
that lent to the day all the enlivenment it had. Before us for ten or twelve miles stretched
the broad white expanse of the river bed, shimmering in the mellow sunlight, and far beyond,
remote but clear, rose the sharp white peaks of the mountains that divide the almost parallel
valleys of the Kobuk and the Noatak. As we travelled, these distant peaks began to take the
most fantastic shapes. They flattened into a level table-land, and then they shot up into pinnacles
and spires. Then they shrank together in the middle and spread out on top till they looked
like great domed mushrooms. Then the broad convex tops separated themselves entirely from their
stalk-like bases and hung detached in the sky with daylight underneath. And then these mushroom
tops stretched out laterally and threw up peaks of their own until there were distinct duplicate
ranges, one on the earth and one in the sky. It was fascinating to watch these whimsical vagaries
of nature that went on for hours. A change in one's own position, from erect to stooping, caused
the most convulsive contortions, and when once I lay down on the trail that I might view the
scene through the lowest stratum of the agitated air, every peak shot up suddenly far into
the sky like the outspreading of one's fingers, to subside as suddenly as I rose to my feet
again. The psalmist's query came naturally to the mind, "Why hop ye so ye hills?" and our Kobuk
boy Roxy, whose enjoyment of fine landscapes and strange sights was always a pleasure to witness,
answered the unspoken question. "God make mountains dance because spring come," he said prettily
enough.

Then we crossed another portage and cut off ten miles of river by it, and when we reached the
river again I wanted to stop, for it grew towards evening and here was good camping-ground.
But we had lately met some travelling Kobuks and they had told Roxy of a cabin "just little
way" farther on, and I yielded to the rest of the company, who would push on to it and thus
avoid the necessity of making camp. That native "just little way" is worse than the Scotch
"mile and a bittock"; indeed, the natives have poor notion of distance in general, and miles
have as vague meaning to them as kilometres have to the average Anglo-Saxon.

[Sidenote: A BELATED CAMP]

On and on we pushed, mile after mile, and still no cabin. In the gathering dusk we would continually
think we saw it; half-fallen trees or sloping branches simulating snow-covered gables. At last
it grew quite dark, and when there was general agreement that we must seek the cabin no longer,
but camp, there was no place to camp in. Either the bank was inaccessible or there was lack
of dry timber. We went on thus, seeking rest and finding none, until seven-thirty, and then
made camp by candle-light, in a poor place at that, having trudged thirty-five miles that day.
A night-made camp is always an uncomfortable camp, and an uncomfortable camp means a miserable
night, which to-morrow must pay for. We did not get to bed till nearly midnight, and it was
nine-forty-five when we started out next morning, and we made only fifteen miles that day.

The Kobuk valley continued to open out wider and wider and the mountains right and left to
recede. The Jade Mountains were now dim and distant behind us, and new ranges were coming into
view. The people on this lower river are very few. It was just about one hundred miles from
Long Beach when we reached the next native village, a miserable collection of pole dwellings,
half underground, with perhaps a score of inhabitants. Certainly the conditions of life deteriorated
as we descended this river. The country seems to afford nothing but fish; we were amongst the
ichthyophagi pure and simple. Roxy, bred and born on the upper Kobuk and never so far down
before, is very scornful about it. "Me no likee this country," he says; "no caribou, no ptarmigan,
no rabbits, no timber, no nothin'." The weather had grown raw and cold again, with a constant
disagreeable wind that took all the fun out of travelling. We passed a place where a white
man was pessimistically picking away at a vein of coal in the river bluff. "Yes, we been here
all winter," he said, "working on the blamed ledge. I always knowed it was goin' to pinch out,
and now it's begun to pinch. My partner's gone to Candle for more grub, but I told him it weren't
no use. It's pinchin' out right now. I knowed it afore we started work, but the blamed fool
wouldn't listen to me. 'It'll pinch out,' I told him a dozen times; 'you mark my word it'll
pinch out,' I told him, and now it's begun to pinch; and I hope he'll be satisfied." We were
reminded of the many coal-mines from time to time located on the Yukon, in all or nearly all
of which the vein has "pinched out." The deposits on the coast may be all the fancy of the
magazine writer paints, and may hold the "incalculable wealth" that is attributed to them,
but the coal on the interior rivers seems in scant measure and of inferior quality.

The same night we reached the native village at the mouth of the Squirrel River, another northern
tributary--the Kobuk receives most of its waters from the north--and we spent the night and
the next day, which was Sunday, in one of the half-underground huts of the place, in company
with twelve other people. Here we found Roxy's brother, dubbed "Napoleon" by some white man.
They had not seen one another for years, yet all the greeting was a mutual grunt. The Kobuks
are not demonstrative in their affections, but it would not be right to conclude the affection
lacking. I have seen an old Esquimau woman taking part in a dance the night after her husband
was buried, yet it would have been unjust to have concluded that she was callous and indifferent.
It is very easy to misunderstand a strange people, and very hard to understand them thoroughly.

[Sidenote: THE CANINE INTRUDER]

The roof of the tent was dome-shaped and it was lit by a seal-gut skylight. In the morning
while I was conducting Divine service and attempting most lamely by the mouth of a poor interpreter
to convey some instruction, a dog fight outside adjourned to the roof and presently both combatants
came tumbling through the gut window into the midst of the congregation. They were unceremoniously
picked up and flung out of the door, a few stitches with a needleful of sinew repaired the
window, and the proceedings were resumed. These gut windows have their convenience as well
as their inconvenience. When the hut gets too warm and close even for Esquimaux, the seal gut
is folded back and the outer air rushes in to the great refreshment of the occupants; when
the hut is cool enough the gut is replaced. A skylight is far and away the best method of illuminating
any single-story structure, and this membrane is remarkably translucent, while the snow that
falls or frost that forms upon such a skylight is quickly removed by beating the hand upon
the drum-like surface. All glass windows must be double glazed, or else in the very cold weather
they are quickly covered with a thick deposit of frost from the condensation of the moisture
inside the room, and then they admit much less light than gut does. One of its unpleasant features
is the way the membrane snaps back and forth with a report like a pistol whenever the door
is opened and shut, but on the whole it is a very good substitute for glass indeed.

[Sidenote: SLEEPING CUSTOMS]

These river Esquimaux vary greatly in physical appearance. While many of them are somewhat
undersized and all have small feet and hands, some are well-developed specimens of manhood.
"Riley Jim," the chief of this tribe, would be counted a tall, stalwart man anywhere. And while
many have coarse, squat features, here and there is one who is decidedly attractive in appearance.
A sweet smile which is often upon the face, and small, regular white teeth, greatly help to
redeem any countenance. A youth of about eighteen at the Squirrel River would properly be called
handsome, one thinks--though amongst native people one grows a little afraid of forgetting
standards of comparison; and his wife--for he was already a husband--was a decidedly pretty
girl. A word ought to be said which applies to all the Esquimaux we met. Although many people
live in one hut and there is no possible privacy, yet we saw no immodesty of any sort. They
sleep entirely nude--probably our own great-grandparents did the same, at least the people
of Defoe and Smollet did, for nightshirts and pyjamas are very modern things. There is much
to be said from an hygienic point of view in favour of that custom as against turning in "all
standing" as the Indian generally does, or sleeping in the day underwear as most white men
do. But although every one of a dozen people in cabin after cabin that we stayed at on the
Kobuk River above and below this place, of both sexes and all ages, would thus strip completely
and go to bed, there was never any exposure of the body at all. It may be, of course, that
our presence imposed a greater care in this respect, but it did not so impress us; it seemed
the normal thing. Another noticeable feature of the lives of all these people was their devoutness
in the matter of thanks before and after meat. Some of them would not so much as give and receive
a drink of cold water without a long responsive grace.

As we went on down the river the country grew bleaker and drearier and the few scattered inhabitants
were living more and more the life of the seacoast. The dwellings resembled igloos more than
cabins, being completely covered with snow and approached by underground passages, with heavy
flaps of untanned sealskin to close them. When we passed a fork of the river we knew that we
were entering the delta of the Kobuk, and that another day would take us to the mission on
Kotzebue Sound. It was a long, hard day, in which we made forty miles, but an interesting one.
With a start at six, we were at the mouth by nine-thirty. The spruce which had for some time
been dwarfing and dwindling gave place to willows, the willows shrank to shrubs, the shrubs
changed to coarse grass thrusting yellow tassels through the snow. The river banks sank and
flattened out and ceased, and we were on Hotham Inlet with the long coast-line of the peninsula
that forms it stretching away north and south in the distance. Roxy's bewilderment was amusing.
He stopped and gazed about him and said: "Kobuk River all pechuk!" ("Pechuk" means "played
out.") "What's the matter, no more Kobuk River?" I think his mind had never really entertained
the notion of the river ending, though of course he must often have heard of its mouth in the
salt water. He was out of his country, his bearings all gone, a feeling of helpless insecurity
taking the place of his usual confidence, and I think he said no more all that day.

We had to traverse the ice of Hotham Inlet northward to its mouth, double the end of the peninsula,
and then travel south along the coast to the mission at Kikitaruk, the peninsula being too
rugged to cross. Three considerable rivers drain into Hotham Inlet, roughly parallel in their
east and west courses, the Noatak, the Kobuk, and the Selawik, so that its waters must be commonly
more fresh than salt, for its bounds are narrow and the extensive delta of its eastern shore
would argue its depth slight. Ahead of us, as we travelled north making a bee-line for the
end of the peninsula, all the afternoon, loomed the rocky promontory of Krusenstern, one of
Kotzebue's capes, and far beyond, stretching up the dim coast-line, lay the way to Point Hope.
It was with a sinking of the heart that I gazed upon it, for I knew already, though I had not
announced a decision, that the road to Point Hope could not be my road that year. All day long
the thermometer stood between -40° and -30°, and the constant light sea-breeze kept scarfs
wrapped closely about mouths and noses, which always means disagreeable travel. When the company
stopped at noon to eat a little frozen lunch, I was too chilly to cease my movement and pressed
on. The day of that blessed comfort of the trail, the thermos flask, was not yet. By two-thirty
we had reached Pipe Spit, which still further contracts the narrow entrance of the inlet, and
turning west for a mile or two rounded the point and then turned south for ten miles along
the coast. Just about dark we reached the mission and stood gazing out over the rough ice of
Kotzebue Sound to the Arctic Ocean, having made the forty miles in ten and a half hours. We
had come about one thousand miles from Fairbanks, all of it on foot and most of it on snow-shoes.

[Sidenote: THE ARCTIC OCEAN]

So here was my first sight of the Arctic Ocean. All day long I had anticipated it, and it stirred
me,--a dim, grey expanse stretching vast and vague in the dusk of the evening. The old navigators
whose stories I had read as a boy passed before me in their wonderful, bold sailing vessels,
going in and out uncharted waters that steamships will not venture to-day--Kotzebue, Beechey,
Collinson, McClure--pushing resolutely northward.

Less happy had been my first sight of the Pacific Ocean, five years before. I had the ill luck
to come upon it by way of that Western Coney Island, Santa Monica, and from the merry-go-rounds
and cheap eating places Balboa and Magellan and Franky Drake fled away incontinent and would
not be conjured back; though, indeed, the original discoverers would have had yet further occasion
to gaze at one another "with a wild surmise" if they had seen shrieking companies "shooting
the chutes." But here was vastness, here was desolation, here was silence; jagged ice masses
in the foreground and boundless expanse beyond, solemn and mysterious. The Arctic Ocean was
even as I had pictured it.

The missionary in charge at Kikitaruk had been informed by letter of our projected journey
during the previous summer and had long expected us. We were received with kindness and hospitality,
and after supper began at once our acquaintance with his work, for there was a service that
night which it was thought we should attend. I spoke for a few minutes through an excellent
interpreter and then spent a couple of hours nodding over the stove, overcome with sleep, while
there was much singing and "testimony."

[Sidenote: TOTAL-ABSTINENCE ESQUIMAUX]

The Californian Society of Friends, established here a number of years with branches at other
points on Kotzebue Sound, has done an excellent work amongst the Esquimaux. If they had accomplished
nothing else it would stand to the everlasting credit of the Society's missionaries that they
have succeeded in imbuing the natives under their charge with a total aversion to all intoxicating
liquor. We had come down from the remotest points to which the influence of these people has
extended; we had met their natives five hundred miles away from their base of instruction,
and everywhere we found the same thing. It was said by the white men on the Koyukuk that a
Kobuk could not be induced to take a drink of whisky. It seemed to us a pity that the force
of this most wholesome doctrine should be weakened by the unsuccessful attempt to include tobacco
in the same rigorous prohibition. In several cabins where we stayed there was no sign of smoking
until members of our party produced pipes, whereupon other pipes were furtively produced and
the tobacco that was offered was eagerly accepted. From any rational point of view the putting
of whisky and tobacco in the same category is surely a folly. There can be few more harmless
indulgences to the native than his pipe, and no one knows the solace of the pipe until he has
smoked it around the camp-fire in the arctic regions after a hard day's journey.

The decision to turn my back on Point Hope was, I think, the most painful decision I ever made
in my life; with all my heart I wanted to go on. It was only one hundred and sixty or one hundred
and seventy miles away. The journey had been made in three or four days; but we were now come
to a country where travel is impossible in bad weather and where bad weather prevails; and
that journey might quite as likely take two weeks. I worked over the calendar in my diary,
figuring how many days of travel still remained, allowing reasonable margins, and I could not
see that I had much more than time to get back to Fairbanks before the break-up, which for
sufficient reason I regarded as my first duty. The day of rest at Kikitaruk was Washington's
birthday, the 22d of February. Eight weeks would bring us to the 19th April, by which time
the trails would be already breaking up. Counting out Sundays, that left forty-eight days of
travelling with something like twelve hundred miles yet to make without going to Point Hope--an
average of about twenty-five miles a day. I knew that we had made no such average in the distance
already covered, and though I knew also that travelling improved generally as the season advanced,
I did not know how very much better going there is on the wind-hardened snows of the coast
when travelling is possible at all. Again and again I have regretted that I did not take the
chance and push on, but at the time I decided as I thought I ought to decide, and one has no
real compunctions when that is the case.

[Sidenote: THE RESOLUTION TO TURN SOUTH]

So a first-hand knowledge of our own most interesting work among the Esquimaux was not for
me on that occasion--and there has arisen no opportunity since. Mr. Knapp, who had planned
to spend the rest of the winter at Point Hope, would get a guide and a team here and turn north
after some days' rest, while I would turn south. Roxy was impatient to return to Bettles. "Me
no likee this country," was all that could be got out of him. So I paid him his money and made
him a present of the .22 repeating rifle with which he had killed so many ptarmigan on the
journey, outfitted him with clothes, grub, and ammunition, and let him go; saying good-bye
with regret, for he was a good boy to us all the way.

It was late on the night of our single day of rest when I got to bed, for there had been squaring
up of accounts and much writing, and when I went to bed I did not sleep. Again and again I
reviewed the decision I had come to and fought against it, though such is far from my common
habit. Even as I write, years after, the bitter rebellious reluctance with which I turned south
comes back to me. I wished the hospital at Fairbanks at the bottom of the deep blue sea. I
protested I would go on and complete my journey, even though it involved "thawing out" at Tanana
and getting to Fairbanks on a steamboat in the summer. I had a free hand, a kindly and complaisant
bishop, and none would call me strictly to account. Then I realised that it was merely pride
of purpose, self-willed resolution of accomplishing what had been essayed--in a word, personal
gratification for which I was fighting, and with that realisation came surrender and sleep.

CHAPTER IV

THE SEWARD PENINSULA--CANDLE CREEK, COUNCIL, AND NOME

ONE day's rest was not a great deal after the distance we had come--and that day fully occupied
with business--but since Point Hope was abandoned some sort of schedule must be made for the
Seward Peninsula, and where Sunday shall be spent is always an important factor in arranging
these itineraries. There was just time to reach Candle for the next Sunday and it was decided
to attempt it. Hans would accompany me as far as Candle, where he hoped to find work. It meant
two days of forty-five miles each, for it is ninety miles from Kikitaruk to Candle, but they
told us it could be done.

So the reluctant adieus made, letters despatched, some mailed here at Kikitaruk, some to be
carried back to Bettles and mailed there--these latter getting outside long before the former--we
started at seven in the morning instead of six, as we had planned, on the journey down the
shore of Kotzebue Sound. That hour's delay turned out to be a calamity for us.

The trail was smooth along the beach until Cape Blossom was reached, and I had the first riding
of the winter, Hans and I alternately running and jumping on the sled. There was a portage
across the cape, and three or four miles below it was the wreck of the river steamer Riley,
which used to make a voyage up the Kobuk with supplies for the miners at the Shungnak. The
thermometer was at -38° when we started, and the same light but keen breeze was blowing that
had annoyed us on the other side of the peninsula. What a barren, desolate region it is!--low
rocks sinking away to the dead level of the snow-field on the one hand, nothing but the ice-field
on the other.

[Sidenote: A BAD NIGHT]

[Sidenote: CAMPED IN THE OPEN]

We were bound for an igloo forty-five miles from the mission, the only shelter between Kikitaruk
on the peninsula and Kewalik on the mainland, and we had been warned that the igloo would be
easy to miss if it grew dark as it would be almost indistinguishable from the snow-drifts of
the shore. Some directions from a multitude of counsellors remembered in one sense by Hans
and in another by me, added to our uncertainty as to just where the igloo lay. The wind increased
in force as the evening advanced and the last time I looked at the thermometer it still registered
-38°. The sun set over the sound with another of those curious distortions which had before
proved ominous to us. It was flattened and swollen out like a pot-bellied Chinese lantern,
with a neck to it and an irregular veining over its surface that completed the resemblance.
The wind increased until the air was full of flying snow and it grew dark, and still there
was no sign of the igloo. Only slowly and with much difficulty could the trail be followed,
and that meant we were soon not moving fast enough to keep warm in the fierce wind. At last
we lost the trail altogether, and sometimes we found ourselves out on the rough ice of the
sound and sometimes wallowing in a fresh snow-drift on the shore. I became possessed with the
fear that we had passed the igloo. I was positive that we were told at the mission that we
should reach it before the high bluffs were passed, and we had passed them a long way and had
now but a shallow shelf to mark the coast-line. It is strange how long that delusion about
passing his destination will pursue the Alaskan traveller. Presently the dogs dropped off a
steep bank in the dark, and only by good fortune we were able to keep the heavy sled from falling
upon them, for they were dead tired and lay where they dropped. With freezing fingers I unhitched
the dogs while Hans held the sled, and we lowered it safely down. But it was plain that it
was dangerous to proceed. We could not find the trail again and were growing alarmingly cold.
We were "up against it," as they say here, "up against it good and strong." We had a tent but
no means of putting it up, a stove but nothing to burn in it, a grub box full of food but no
way to cook it. So the first night of coast travel was to show us the full rigour and inhospitality
of the coast and to make us long for the interior again. Wood can almost always be found there
within a few miles, if it be not immediately at hand, and no one properly appreciates the hospitality
of a clump of spruce-trees until he has spent a night of storm lying out on this barren coast.
We turned the dogs loose and threw them a fish apiece, unlashed the sled, and got out our bedding.
I had been sleeping in robes, Hans in a shedding caribou-hide sleeping-bag that was my pet
aversion. When he crawled out in the morning he was so covered with hair that he looked like
a caribou, and the miserable hairs were always getting into the food. We fished them out of
the coffee, pulled them out of the butter, and picked them out of the bread. But now in that
sleeping-bag he had an enormous advantage. We lay side by side on the snow in the lee of the
sled, and, tuck myself up with blanket and robe as I would, it was impossible to keep the swirling
snow from coming in. I called the dogs to me and made them lie on my feet and up against my
side, and so long as they lay still I could get a little warmth, but whenever they rose and
left me I grew numb again. But Hans in his sleeping-bag was snoring. The bag is the only bedding
on the coast. Added to the physical discomfort of that sleepless, shivery night was some mental
uneasiness. There was no telling to what height the storm might rise, nor how long it might
continue. Sometimes travellers overtaken in this way on the coast have to lie in their sleeping-bags
for three days and nights before they can resume their journey. The only interest the night
held was the thought that came to me that as nearly as I could tell we camped exactly on the
Arctic Circle. The long night dragged its slow length to the dawn at last and the wind moderated
a little at the same time, so with the first streak in the east I awoke Hans, we gathered our
poor dogs together, rolled up the snow-incrusted bedding, and resumed our journey. Two miles
farther on was the igloo! Our calls awoke some one and we were bidden to enter. Descending
a ladder and crawling through a dark passage we came in to the grateful warmth and shelter.
The chamber was crowded with sleeping Esquimaux and reeked with seal oil and fish, but Hans
said it "looked good and smelled good to him," and so it did to me also. One has to lie out
on that coast in a storm to appreciate the value of mere shelter. We went at once to cooking,
for we had eaten nothing but a doughnut or two in twenty-four hours, and surely never meal
was more relished than the reindeer steaks and the coffee we took amongst those still sleeping
Esquimaux. I should have liked to spend the day and the next night there, for they were friendly
and kindly, but the wind had moderated somewhat and there was still a chance to reach Candle
for Sunday. With the offer of a sack of flour at Kewalik we induced a couple of Esquimaux to
accompany us, for I knew we had to cross the mouth of a bay over the ice to reach the mainland
and I wanted to take no more chances.

Our company, again raised to four, started out about nine, and until the Choris Peninsula was
reached the trail still skirted the shore. It is strange that Kotzebue, who named this peninsula
of a peninsula for the artist who accompanied his expedition in 1816, should have left the
main peninsula itself unnamed, and that the British expedition which named Cape Blossom ten
years later should have failed to supply the omission. It still bears no name on the map. We
portaged across the Choris Peninsula and at the end of the portage took a straight course across
the mouth of Escholtz Bay (Escholtz was Kotzebue's surgeon) for Kewalik on the mainland, passing
Chamisso Island, named for Kotzebue's poet friend. There is something very interesting to me
in this voyage of Kotzebue's, and I have long wished to come across a full narrative of it.
But the bitter wind that swept across that ice-sheet with the thermometer at -30° brought one's
thoughts back to one's own condition. My hands I could not keep warm with the gear that had
sufficed for 50° and 60° below in the interior, and I was very glad to procure from one of
our native companions a pair of caribou mitts with the hair inside, an almost invulnerable
gauntlet against cold. If that wind had been in our faces instead of on our sides I am sure
we could not have travelled at all. At last we won across the ice and brought up at a comfortable
road-house at Kewalik, about ten miles from Candle. Here we lay overnight, taking the opportunity
of thawing out and drying the frost-crusted bedding, leaving the short run into town for the
morning.

[Sidenote: CANDLE CREEK]

The diggings on Candle Creek yield to the Koyukuk diggings only as the most northerly gold
mining in the world. Although the general methods are the same in all Alaskan camps, local
circumstances introduce many differences. In all Alaskan camps the ground is frozen and must
be thawed down. The timber of the interior renders wood the natural fuel for the production
of the steam that thaws the ground, but the scarcity of wood on the Seward Peninsula substitutes
coal. There is coal on the peninsula itself, but of very inferior quality, mixed with ice.
One may see chunks of coal with veins of ice running through them thrown upon the fire. The
wood of the interior is a great factor in its commercial and domestic economy, and its absence
on the Seward Peninsula makes great change not only in the natural aspect of the country but
in the whole aspect of its industrial and domestic life also. Wood-chopping for the stove and
the mill, wood-sawing, wood-hauling employ no small percentage of all the white men in the
interior--occupations which do not exist at all on the peninsula. But its encompassment by
the sea, its peninsularity, is the dominating difference between the Seward Peninsula and the
interior, and does indeed make a different country of it altogether. All prices are very much
lower on the peninsula because ships can bring merchandise directly from the "outside." Thus
amongst those who have money to spend there is a more lavish scale of living than in the interior
towns, and luxuries may be enjoyed here that are out of the question there. Perhaps, conversely,
it is true that life on the peninsula is somewhat harder for the poorer class. Whether a railway
from salt water to the mid-Yukon would redress this great difference in the cost of everything
may be doubted. Railways do not usually operate at less than water-rates. There will probably
always be an advantage in the cost of living and mining in favour of the Seward Peninsula camps.

There had been no public religious service of any sort in Candle, with its several hundreds
of population, in three years, so there was special satisfaction in having reached the place
for Sunday when many miners were in town from the creeks, and an overflowing congregation was
readily assembled. And there was great pleasure in three days' rest at the hospitable home
of a friend while the temperature remained below -40°, exacerbated by a wind that rendered
travelling dangerous. Moreover, by waiting I had company on the way, and now that I was without
native attendant or white companion, and disposed, if possible, to make the journey right across
the peninsula to Council and then to Nome without engaging fresh assistance, I was doubly glad
of the opportunity of travelling with two men bound for the same places and acquainted with
the route.

[Sidenote: THE SEWARD PENINSULA]

Travelling, like so many other things, is very different on the Seward Peninsula. The constant
winds beat down and harden the snow until it has a crust that will carry a man anywhere. There
are only two means by which snow becomes crusted; one is this packing and solidifying by the
wind, and the other is thawing and freezing again. There is much less wind in the interior
than on the coast, and usually much less snowfall, and the greater part of the surface of the
country is protected by trees; the climate, being continental instead of marine, is not subject
to such great fluctuations of temperature. A thaw sufficiently pronounced or sufficiently prolonged
to put a stout crust on the snow when freezing is resumed, is a very rare thing in the interior
and a common thing on the coast. So a striking difference in travel at once manifests itself;
in the interior all the snow is soft except on a beaten trail itself, while in the Seward Peninsula
all the snow is alike hard. The musher is not confined to trails--he can go where he pleases;
and his vehicle is under no necessity of conforming in width to a general usage of the country--it
may be as wide as he pleases. Hence the hitching of dogs two and three abreast; hence the sleds
of twenty-two, twenty-four, or twenty-six inches in width. My tandem rig aroused the curiosity
of those who saw it. Hence many other differences also. Hitherto we had not dreamed of watering
the dogs since snow fell; now I found their mouths bloody from their ineffectual attempts to
dig up the hard snow with their teeth, and had to water them night and morning. It is not the
custom on the Seward Peninsula to cook for the dogs, and dog mushers there argue the needlessness
of that trouble. But the true reason is other and obvious. It is difficult for the traveller
to get enough wood to cook for himself, let alone the dogs. On the Seward Peninsula skis are
extensively used when there is soft snow; the prevalence of brush almost everywhere in the
interior renders them of little use--and they are, therefore, little used, snow-shoes being
universal.

So, as in nearly all such matters everywhere, local peculiarities, local differences, local
customs, usually arise from local conditions, and the wise man will commonly conform so soon
as he discovers them. There is almost always a sufficient reason for them.

[Sidenote: A "SIDLING" TRAIL]

The journey from Candle to Council was a surprisingly swift one. We covered the one hundred
and thirty miles in three days, far and away the best travelling of the winter so far, but
the usual time, I found. The hard snow gives smooth passage though the interior of the peninsula
is rugged and mountainous; two prominent elevations, the Ass's Ears, standing up as landmarks
during the first day of the journey. The route crossed ridge after ridge with steep grades,
and the handling of the heavy sled alone was too much for me. Again and again it was overturned,
and it was all that I could do, and more than I ought to have done, to set it up again. The
wind continued to blow with violence, and shelter from it there was none. One hillside struggle
I shall always remember. The trail sloped with the hill and the wind was blowing directly down
it. I could keep no footing on the marble snow and had fallen heavily again and again, in my
frantic efforts to hold sled and dogs and all from sweeping down into a dark ravine that loomed
below, when I bethought me of the "creepers" in the hind-sack, used on the rivers in passing
over glare ice. With these irons strapped to my feet I was able to stand upright, but it was
only by a hair's breadth once and again that I got my load safely across. When I was wallowing
in a hot bath at Council two days later I found that my hip and thigh were black and blue where
I had fallen, though at the time, in my anxiety to save the dogs and the sled, I had not noticed
that I had bruised myself. So, judging great things by little, one understands how a soldier
may be sorely wounded without knowing it in the heat and exaltation of battle.

Then for a while there would be such travel as one sees in the children's picture-books, where
the man sits in the sled and cracks his whip and is whisked along as gaily as you please--such
travel as I had never had before; but there was no pleasure in it--the wind saw to that.

On the second day we crossed "Death Valley," so called because two men were once found frozen
in it; a bleak, barren expanse, five or six miles across, with a great gale blowing right down
it, charged not only with particles of hard snow but with spicules of ice and grains of sand.
Our course was south and the gale blew from the northwest, and the right side of one's body
and the right arm were continually numb from the incessant beating of the wind. The parkee
hood had to be drawn closely all the time, and the eyes were sore from trying to peer ahead
through the fur edging of the hood. One grows to hate that wind with something like a personal
animosity, so brutal, so malicious does it seem. An incautious turn of the head and the scarf
that protected mouth and nose was snatched from me and borne far away in an instant, beyond
thought of recovery. It seems to lie in wait, and one fancies a fresh shrill of glee in its
note at every new discomfiture it can inflict. There is nothing far-fetched in the native superstition
that puts a malignant spirit in the wind; it is the most natural feeling in the world. I said
so that night in camp, and one of my companions mentioned something about "rude Boreas," and
I laughed. The gentle myths of Greece do not fit this country. The Indian name means "the wind
beast," and is appropriate.

A savage, forbidding country, this whole interior of the Seward Peninsula, uninhabited and
unfit for habitation; a country of naked rock and bare hillside and desolate, barren valley,
without amenities of any kind and cursed with a perpetual icy blast.

[Sidenote: DEATH VALLEY]

The valley crossed and its ridge surmounted, a still more heart-breaking experience was in
store. We descended the frozen bed of a creek from which the wind had swept every trace of
snow so that the ice was polished as smooth as glass. The dogs could get no footing and were
continually down on their bellies, moving their legs instinctively but helplessly, like the
flippers of a turtle, while the wind carried dogs and sled where it pleased. The grade was
considerable and in bends the creek spread out wide. Nothing but the creepers enabled a man
to stand at all, and creepers and brake together could not hold the sled from careering sideways
across the ice, dragging the dogs with it, until the runners struck some pebble or twig frozen
in the ice and the sled would be violently overturned. Twice with freezing fingers I unlashed
that sled lying on its side, and took out nearly all the load before I could succeed in getting
it upright again, losing some of the lighter articles each time. The third time was the worst
of all. The brake had been little more than a pivot on which sled and dogs were swung to leeward,
but now the teeth had become so blunt that, though I stood upon it with all my weight, it would
not hold at all nor check the sideways motion under the impulse of the wind. Right across the
creek we went, dragging the dogs behind, jerking them hither and thither over the glassy surface.
I saw the rocks towards which we were driving, but was powerless to avert the disaster, and
hung on in some hope, I suppose, of being able to minimise it, till, with a crash that broke
two of the uprights and threw me so hard that I skinned my elbow and hurt my head, we were
once more overturned. Never since I reached manhood, I think, did I feel so much like sitting
down and crying. It seemed hopeless to think about getting down that creek until the wind stopped,
and one doubts if the wind ever does stop in that country. But there was no good sitting there
like a shipwrecked mariner, nursing sores and misfortunes; presently one would begin to feel
sorry for oneself--that last resort of incompetence. And the bitter wind is a great stimulus.
It will not permit inaction. So I was up again, fumbling at the sled lashings as best I could
with torpid fingers, when one of my companions, uneasy at my delay, very kindly made his way
back, and with his assistance I was able to get the sled upright again without unloading and
hold it somewhat better on its course until another bend or two brought us to the partial shelter
of bluffs and, a little farther, to the cabin where we were to spend the night. I understood
now why my companions had a sort of hinged knife-edge fastened to one runner of their sled.
By the pressure of a foot the knife-edge engaged the ice and held the sled on its course. This
is another Seward Peninsula device.

[Sidenote: THE KINDLY SWEDE]

I have it in my diary that "a Swede named Petersen was very kind to us at the cabin, cooking
for us and giving us cooked dog feed." Blessed Swede named Petersen!--there are hundreds of
them in Alaska--and I shall never forget that particular one's kindness--the only man I met
in the Seward Peninsula who still persisted in cooking dog feed whenever he could. He had cooked
up a mess of rice and fish enough to last his three or four dogs several days while he sojourned
at this cabin, and he gave it all to us and would take nothing for it. His language was what
Truthful James calls "frequent and painful and free." I ignored it for a while, loath to take
exception to anything a man said who had been so kind. But at last I could stand it no longer--it
took all the savour out of his hospitality--and I said: "I hope you won't mind my saying it,
for I'd hate to give offence to a man who has been so good to strangers as you have, but I
wish you'd cut out that cursing; it hurts my ears." He sat silent a moment looking straight
at me, and I was not sure how he had taken it. Then he said: "Maybe you been kinder to me saying
that, than I been to you. That's the first time I ever been call down for cursin'. I don't
mean nothin' by it; it's just foolishness and I goin' try to cut it out."

The dogs had done but ill on the dry fish, accustomed as they were to cooked food, and they
ate ravenously of their supper. Only the previous night Lingo had betrayed his trust for the
first and last time. Coming out of the cabin just before turning in, to take a last look round,
I saw Lingo on top of the sled eating something, and I found that he had dug a slab of bacon
out of the unlashed load and had eaten most of it. I knew he was hungry, missing the filling,
satisfying mess he was used to, and I did not thrash him, I simply said, "Oh, Lingo!" and the
dog got off the sled and slunk away, the very picture of conscious, shamefaced guilt. That
was the only time he did such a thing in all the six years I drove him.

Council was past its prime at the time of this visit, but just as we entered the town, at the
end of the third day's run, it seemed in danger of going through all the stages of decadence
with a rush to total destruction out of hand, for a fire had broken out in a laundry, and with
the high wind still blowing it looked as though every building was doomed. Of two chemical
engines possessed by the town one refused to work, but the vigour and promptness of the people
in forming two lines down to the river, and passing buckets with the utmost rapidity, coped
with the outbreak just in time to prevent its spreading beyond all control. Tired as we were,
we all pitched in and passed buckets until parkees and mitts and mukluks were incrusted with
ice from water that was spilled. Efficient protection is a matter of great difficulty and expense
in Alaskan towns, and there is not one of them that has escaped being swept by fire. The buildings
are almost necessarily all of wood, the cost of brick and stone construction being prohibitive.
No one can guarantee ten years of life to a placer-mining town, and there would be no warrant
for the expenditure of the sums required for fireproof building even were the capital available.
But the rapidity with which they are rebuilt, where rebuilding is justified, is even more remarkable
than the rapidity with which they are destroyed.

A Saturday and Sunday were very welcome at Council, and the courtesy of the Presbyterian minister,
who gave up his church and his congregations to me, Esquimaux in the morning and white at night,
was much appreciated.

[Sidenote: NORTON SOUND]

In warmer weather, the thermometer no lower than -5° at the start, but with the same gale blowing
that had blown ever since we left Candle, though it had shifted towards the northeast, we got
away on Monday morning, bound for Nome, ninety miles away, hoping to reach the half-way house
that night. Five or six hours' run over good trails, with no greater inconvenience than the
acceleration of our pace by the wind on down grades, until the sled frequently overran the
dogs with entanglements and spillings, brought us to the seacoast at Topkok, and a noble view
opened up as we climbed the great bluff. There Norton Sound spread out before us, its ice largely
cleared away and blown into Bering Sea by the strong wind that had prevailed for nearly a week,
its waves sparkling and dashing into foam in the March sunshine; the distant cliffs and mountains
of its other shore just visible in the clear air. It was an exhilarating sight--the first free
water that I had seen since the summer, and it seemed rejoicing in its freedom, leaping up
with glee to greet the mighty ally that had struck off its fetters.

But from this point troubles began to grow. We dropped down presently to the shore and passed
along the glare surface of lagoon after lagoon, the wind doing what it liked with the sled,
for it was impossible to handle it at all. Sometimes we went along broadside on, sometimes
the sled first and the dogs trailing behind, moving their silly, helpless paws from side to
side as they were dragged over the ice on their bellies. When we had passed these lagoons the
trail took the beach, running alongside and just to windward of a telephone-line, with rough
shore ice to the left and bare rocks to the right. Again and again the already injured sled
was smashed heavily against a telephone pole. I would see the impact coming and strive my utmost
to avert it, but without a gee pole, and swinging the sled only by the handle-bars, it was
more than I could do to hold the sled on its course against the beam wind that was forcing
it towards the ice and the telephone poles; and a gee pole could not be used at the rate we
had travelled ever since we left Candle. Mile after mile we went along in this way. I do not
know how many poles I hit and how many I missed, but every pole on that stretch of coast was
a fresh and separate anxiety and menace to me. I think I would have been perfectly willing
to have abolished and wiped out the whole invention of the telephone so I could be rid of those
hateful poles. What were telephone poles doing in the arctic regions anyway? Telephone poles
belonged with electric cars and interurban trolley-lines, not with dog teams and sleds.

Then it grew dark and the wind increased. I did not know it, but I was approaching that stretch
of coast which is notorious as the windiest place in all Alaska, a place the topography of
which makes it a natural funnel for the outlet of wind should any be blowing anywhere in the
interior of the peninsula. My companions were far ahead, long since out of sight. I struggled
along a little farther, and, just after a particularly bad collision and an overturning, I
saw a light glimmering in the snow to my right. It was a little road-house, buried to the eaves
and over the roof in snow-drift, with window tunnels and a door tunnel excavated in the snow.
I was yet, I learned, five miles from Solomon's, my destination, but I hailed this haven as
my refuge for the night and went no farther, more exhausted by the struggle of the last two
or three hours than by many an all-day tramp on snow-shoes. It was a miserable, dirty little
shack, but it was tight; it meant shelter from that pitiless wind. That night the thermometer
stood at 7°, the first plus temperature in twenty-two days.

By morning the gale had greatly diminished, and by the time I reached Solomon's and rejoined
my companions it was calm, the first calm since we left the middle Kobuk. We had some rough
ice to cross to avoid a long detour of the coast, and then we were back on the shore again
and it began to snow. The snow was soon done and the sun shone, but the new coating of dazzling
white gave such a glare that it was necessary to put on the snow glasses for the first time
of the winter--and that is always a sign winter draws to a close.

[Sidenote: DOGS AND REINDEER]

On the approach to Nome we had our first encounter with reindeer, and at once my dog team became
unmanageable. I had had some trouble that morning with a horse. A new dog I procured at Kikitaruk
had never seen a horse before, and made frantic efforts to get at him, leaping at his haunches
as we passed by. But when they saw the reindeer the whole team set off at a run, dragging the
heavy sled as if it were nothing. The Esquimau driving the deer saw the approaching dogs and
hastily drew his equipage off the trail farther inshore, standing between the deer and the
dogs with a heavy whip. What the result would have been had the dogs reached the deer it is
hard to say. I had kept my stand on the step behind the sled and managed to check its wild
career with the brake and to throw it over and stop the approach before the carnivora reached
their immemorial prey. Herein lies one of the difficulties of the domestication of reindeer
in Alaska, a country where so far dogs have been the only domestic animals. Again, as we entered
the outskirts of Nome the incident was repeated, and only the hasty driving of the reindeer
into a barn prevented the dogs from seizing the deer that time.

[Sidenote: NOME]

Jimmy was long deposed from his ineffectual leadership and a little dog named Kewalik--the
one I obtained at Kikitaruk--was at the head of the team. Kewalik had never seen so many houses
before; hitherto almost every cabin he had reached on his journeys had been a resting-place,
and he wanted to dive into every house we passed. At Candle and Council both, our stopping-place
had been near the entrance to the little town. But now we had to pass up one long street after
another and I had continually to drag him and the team he led first from a yard on this side
of the road and then from one on the other. The dog was perfectly bewildered and out of his
head by the number of people and the number of houses he saw. We were indeed a sorry, travel-worn,
unkempt, uncivilised band, man and dogs, with an old, battered vehicle, and we felt our incongruity
with the new environment as we entered the metropolis of the luxury and wealth of the North.
Here we passed a jeweller's shop, the whole window aglow with the dull gleam of gold and ivory--the
terrible nugget jewellery so much affected in these parts and the walrus ivory which is Alaska's
other contribution of material for the ornamental arts. Here we passed a veritable department
store, its ground-floor plate-glass window set as a drawing-room, with gilded, brocaded chairs,
marquetry table, and ormolu clock, and I know not what costliness of rug and curtain. It was
all so strange that it seemed unreal after that long passage of the savage wilds, that long
habitation of huts and igloos and tents. Hitherto we had often been fortunate could we buy
a little flour and bacon; here the choice comestibles of the earth were for sale. I looked
askance at my greasy parkee as I passed shops where English broadcloth and Scotch tweeds were
displayed; at my worn, clumsy mukluks when I saw patent-leather pumps. But Nome knows how to
welcome the wanderer from the wilderness and to make him altogether at home. There could be
no warmer hospitality than that with which I was received by the Reverend John White and his
wife, than that which I had at many a home during my week's stay.

Nothing in the world could have caused the building of a city where Nome is built except the
thing that caused it: the finding of gold on the beach itself and in the creeks immediately
behind it. It has no harbour or roadstead, no shelter or protection of any kind; it is in as
bleak and exposed a position as a man would find if he should set out to hunt the earth over
for ineligible sites.

But Nome is also a fine instance of the way men in the North conquer local conditions and wring
comfort out of bleakness and desolation by the clever adaptation of means to ends.

The art of living comfortably in the North had to be learned, and it has been learned pretty
thoroughly. People live at Nome as well as they do "outside." One may sit down to dinners as
well cooked, as well furnished, as well served as any dinners anywhere. The good folk of Nome
delight in spreading their dainty store before the unjaded appetite of the winter traveller,
and it would be affectation to deny that there is keen relish of enjoyment in the long-unwonted
gleam of wax candle or electrolier upon perfect appointment of glass, silver, and napery, in
the unobtrusive but vigilant service of white-jacketed Chinaman or Jap. Nome has a great advantage
over its only rival in the interior, Fairbanks, in the matter of freight rates. The same merchandise
that is landed at the one place for ten or twelve dollars a ton within ten or twelve days of
its leaving Seattle, costs fifty or sixty at the other, and takes a month or more to arrive.
But this accessibility in the summer is exactly reversed in the winter. No practicable route
has been discovered along the uninhabited shores of Bering Sea, and all the mail for Nome comes
from Valdez to Fairbanks and then down the Yukon and round Norton Sound by dog team. In winter
Fairbanks is within seven or eight days of open salt water; Nome a full month. After navigation
closes in October, the first mail does not commonly reach the Seward Peninsula until January.
So that, with all its comforts and luxuries, Nome is a very isolated place for eight months
in the year.

[Sidenote: MINING AT NOME]

We went out with the dog sled to the diggings a few miles behind the town, and a busy scene
we found, enveloped in steam and smoke. Here an old beach line had been discovered and was
yielding rich reward for the working. A long line of conical "dumps" marked its extension roughly
parallel with the present shore, and the buckets that arose from the depths, travelled along
a cable, and at just the right moment upset their contents, continually added to these heaps.
All the winter "pay-dirt" is thus excavated and stored; in the summer when the streams run
the gold is sluiced out. But that phrase "when the streams run" covers a world of difficulty
and expense to the miner. In some places in this Seward Peninsula, ditches thirty and forty
miles long have been constructed to insure the streams running when and where they are needed.

There was quite a little to do in Nome. A new sled must be bought, and another dog, and, above
all, some arrangement made about a travelling companion. I was not willing to hire a native
who would have to return here, and I was resolved never again to travel alone. So I put an
advertisement in the newspaper, desiring communication with some man who was intending a journey
to Fairbanks immediately, and was fortunate to meet a sober, reliable man who undertook to
accompany and assist me for the payment of his travelling expenses.

The week wore rapidly away, and I began to be eager to depart, mindful of the eight hundred
odd miles yet to be covered. Spring seemed already here and summer treading upon her heels,
for the town was all slush and mud from a decided "soft snap," the thermometer standing well
above freezing for days in succession.

A visitor to this place is struck by the number of articles made from walrus ivory exposed
for sale, chief amongst them being cribbage-boards. A walk down the streets would argue the
whole population given over to the incessant playing of cribbage. The explanation is found
in the difficulty of changing the direction of Esquimau activity once that direction is established.
These clever artificers were started making cribbage-boards long ago and it seems impossible
to stop them. Every summer they come in from their winter hunting with fresh supplies carved
during the leisure of the long nights. The beautiful walrus tusk becomes almost an ugly thing
when it is thus hacked flat and bored full of holes. The best pieces of Esquimau carving are
not these things, made by the dozen, but the domestic implements made for their own use, and
some of this work is very clever and tasteful indeed, adorned with fine bold etchings of the
chase of walrus, seal, and polar bear.

The soft weather continued and made sloppy travel. Our course lay all around Norton Sound to
Unalaklík, and then over the portage to Kaltag on the Yukon; up the Yukon to the mouth of the
Tanana, and then up that river to Fairbanks. The first day's run was the retracing of our steps
to Solomon's, and that was done without difficulty save for a new trouble with the dogs. It
appeared that we no longer had any leader. All the winter through my team had been behind another
team, and that constant second place had turned our leaders into followers. We thought we had
two leaders, but neither one was willing to proceed without some one or something ahead of
him. On such good ice-going as this it was out of the question for one of us to run ahead of
the team simply to please these leader-perverts, and the whip had to be wielded heavily on
Jimmy's back ere he could be induced to fill his proper office--and then he did it ill, with
constant exasperating stoppings and lookings-back. At Solomon's I met a man who had spent some
years with Peary in his arctic explorations, and I sat up far into the night drawing interesting
narratives out of him. So far as Topkok we were still retracing our steps, but once over the
great bluff, which gave no view this time owing to the mist which accompanies this soft weather,
we were on new ground, our course lying wholly along the beach.

At Bluff was the most interesting, curious gold mining I have ever seen, the extraction of
gold from the sand of Norton Sound, two hundred yards or more out from the beach. There it
lies under ten or twelve feet of water with the ice on top. How shall it be reached? Why, by
the exact converse of the usual Alaskan placer mining; by freezing down instead of thawing
down. The ice is cut away from the beginning of a shaft, almost but not quite down to the water,
leaving just a thin cake. The atmospheric cold, penetrating this cake, freezes the water below
it, and presently the hole is chopped down a little farther, leaving always a thin cake above
the water. A canvas chute is arranged over the shaft, with a head like a ship's ventilator
that can be turned any way to catch the wind. Gradually the water is frozen down, and as it
is frozen more and more ice is removed until the bottom is reached, surrounded and protected
by a cylindrical shaft of ice; then the sand can be removed and the gold it contains washed
out. They told us they were making good money and their ingenuity certainly deserved it.

[Sidenote: ICE TRAVEL]

We stopped that night at the native village of Chinnik, the people of which are looked after
by a mission of the Swedish Evangelical Church on Golofnin Bay, which we should cross to-morrow.
But the mission is off the trail, and we did not come to an acquaintance with the missionaries
of this body until we reached Unalaklík. Next day, climbing and descending considerable grades
in warm, misty weather, we reached Golofnin Bay, pursued it some distance, and left it by a
very steep, long hill that was close to one thousand feet high, at the foot of which we were
once more on the beach of the sound--and at the road-house for the night. From that place the
trail no longer hugged the coast but struck out boldly across the ice for a distant headland,
Moses' Point, where we lunched, and, that point reached, struck out again for Isaac's Point,
most of the travelling during a long day in which we made forty-eight miles being four or five
miles from land. The day was clear, and the shore-line of the other side of the sound, which
grew nearer as we proceeded, was subject to strange distortions of mirage. The road-house that
night nestled picturesquely against a great bluff, and right across the ice lay Texas Point,
for which we should make a bee-line to-morrow. Sometimes the traveller must go all round Norton
Bay, but at this time the ice was in good condition and our route cut across the mouth of the
bay for twenty-two miles straight for the other side. It was like crossing from Dover to Calais
on the ice. The passage made, the Alaskan mainland was reached once more, the Seward Peninsula
left behind us, and our way lay across desolate, low-lying tundra strewn with driftwood and
hollowed out here and there into little lagoons. Evidently the waves sweep clean across it
in stormy weather when the sound is open; a salt marsh. In the midst of it reared a sort of
lookout tripod of driftwood thirty or forty feet high, lashed and nailed together, with a precarious
little platform on top and cleats nailed to one of the uprights for ascent. I essayed the view,
but the rusty nails broke under my feet. We deemed it a hunting tower from which water-fowl
might be spied in the spring. Sixteen miles of this melancholy waste brought us to the shore
again, to a tiny Esquimau village and a tumble-down, half-buried shack of a road-house where
we should spend the night, a little schooner lying beached in front of it. If its exterior
were uninviting, the scene as we entered was sinister. By the light of a single candle--though
it was not yet dark outside--amidst unwashed dishes and general grime, sat an evil-eyed Portuguese
or Spaniard, in a red toque, playing poker with three skin-clad Esquimaux. So absorbed were
they in the game that they had not heard us arrive nor seen us enter. With a brief, reluctant
interval for the preparation of a poor supper, the card playing went on all the evening far
into the night. My companion discovered that the chips were worth a dollar apiece and judged
it to be "considerable of a game." At last I arose from my bunk and said that we were tired
and had come there to sleep, and with an ill grace the playing was shortly abandoned and the
natives went off. The arctic shores have their beach-combers as well as the South Sea Islands.

[Sidenote: UNALAKLÍK]

The next day was Sunday, but I was anxious to spend my day of rest at Unalaklík and most indisposed
to spend it here, so we got away with a very early start long before daylight. Six or seven
miles of tundra and lagoon travel and the trail crossed abruptly a tongue of land and struck
out over the salt-water ice for a cape fifteen miles away. The going was splendid. It was not
glare ice, but ice upon which snow had melted and frozen again. It was so smooth that one dog
could have drawn the sled, yet not so smooth as to deny good footing. We kept well out to sea,
passing close to the mountainous mass of Besborough Island, plainly riven by some ancient convulsion
from the sheer bluffs of the mainland. Our only trouble was in keeping the dogs well enough
out, for, not being water-spaniels or other marine species, they had a hankering after the
land and a continual tendency to edge in to shore.

So from headland to headland we made rapid, easy traverse, thoroughly enjoying the ride, munching
chocolate and raisins, speculating about the seasons when it had been possible to cross direct
from Nome to Saint Michael on the ice, and exchanging stories we had heard of the disasters
and hairbreadth escapes attending such overbold venture. Only this winter three men and a dog
team were blown out into Bering Sea by a sudden storm, and lay for four days in their sleeping-bags
drifting up and down on an ice cake, until at last they were blown back to the shore ice and
made their escape. And there is a fine story of a white man rescued in half-frozen state by
his Esquimau wife, and carried for miles on her back to safety.

At last we turned a point and drew in to the shore, and, not seeing the little town till we
were almost upon it, arrived at Unalaklík early in the afternoon. We had made the two hundred
and forty miles, as it is called, from Nome, in six days. In the last twelve days of travel
we had covered five hundred miles, an average of nearly forty-two miles per day, far and away
the best travelling of the winter. The preceding five hundred miles had taken twenty-two days.

We were in time to attend the Esquimau services at the mission both afternoon and night, and
I found them very much the same as at Kikitaruk, with the exception that the singing was much
more advanced and was very good indeed. There was an anthem of the Danks type sung by a choir--the
parts well maintained throughout, the attacks good, the voices under excellent control--that
it pleased and surprised me to hear, and there was a long discourse most patiently and, as
I judged, faithfully interpreted by a bright-looking Esquimau boy. It is well for those who
speak much through an interpreter to listen occasionally to similar discourse. Only so may
its unavoidable tediousness be appreciated.

[Sidenote: GOVERNMENT SCHOOLS]

The school next day pleased me still more, and I was glad that I had a school-day at the place.
I heard good reading and spelling, saw good writing, and listened with real enjoyment to the
fresh young voices raised again and again in song. There was, however, something so curiously
exotic that for a moment it seemed irresistibly funny, in "The Old Oaken Bucket," from lips
that have difficulty with the vowel sounds of English; from children that never saw a well
and never will see one;--and I was irreverent enough to have much the same feeling about "I
love thy templed hills," etc., in that patriotic Plymouth Rock song which is so little adapted
for universal American use that, in a gibe not without justice, it has been called "Smith's
Country, 'tis of Thee." One wonders if they sing it in the Philippine schools; and, so far
as these regions are concerned, one wishes that some teacher with a spark of genius would take
Goldsmith's hint and write a simple song for Esquimau children that should

        "Extol the treasures of their finny seas
         And their long nights of revelry and ease";

the splendour of summer's perpetual sunshine and the weird radiance of the Northern Lights;
but prosody is not taught in your "Normal" school. The thing is a vain, artificial attempt
to impose a whole body of ideas, notions, standards of comparison, metaphors, similes, and
sentiments upon a race to which, in great measure, they must ever be foreign and unintelligible.
Here were girls reading in a text-book of so-called physiology, and, as it happened, the lesson
that day was on the evils of tight lacing! The reading of that book, I was informed, is imposed
by special United States statute, and the teacher must make a separate report that so much
of it has been duly gone through each month before the salary can be drawn. Yet none of those
girls ever saw a corset or ever will. One is reminded of the dear old lady who used to visit
the jails and distribute tracts on The Evils of Keeping Bad Company.

But these incongruities aside, the school was a good school and well taught, the government
appointing the teachers, as I learned, upon the nomination of the mission authorities; the
only way that a government school can be successful at any mission station, for the two agencies
must work together, as one's right hand works with one's left, to effect any satisfactory result.
The hours spent in it were very enjoyable, and one wished one might have had opportunity for
further acquaintance with some of the bright-faced, interesting children, both full-bloods
and half-breeds.

Unalaklík is a thriving Esquimau community, noted for its native schooner building and its
successful seal hunters and fishermen. We were rejoiced to see signs of native prosperity and
advance, and we left Unalaklík with high hope for its future.

Here also was real rest and refreshment at a road-house. Road-houses in Alaska are as various
in quality as inns are "outside." Our previous night's halt was at one of the worst; this was
one of the best. The proprietor was a good cook and he did his best for us, with omelet and
pastry, and young, tender reindeer. It has been said that road-house keeping in Alaska is like
soliciting life insurance "outside," the last resort of incompetence. Certain it is that a
thoroughly lazy and incompetent man may yet make a living keeping a road-house, for there is
no rivalry save at the more important points, and travellers are commonly so glad to reach
any shelter that they are not disposed to be censorious. None the less, when they find a man
who takes a pride in his business and an interest in the comfort of his guests, they are highly
appreciative.

[Sidenote: THE KALTAG PORTAGE]

We should have only an occasional road-house from now on, but expected to reach some inhabited
cabin each night. Our good travelling was over though we did not know it. We knew that the
hard snows of the Seward Peninsula and the bare ice of Norton Sound were behind us, but we
kept telling ourselves that the travel of all the winter would surely have left a fine trail
on the Yukon. We were now about sixty-five miles from Saint Michael, by the coast. But taking
the ninety-mile portage from Unalaklík to Kaltag we should reach the Yukon River more than
five hundred miles above Saint Michael, so much does that portage cut off. This is the route
the military telegraph-line takes, and we should travel along close beside it much of the way
until the Yukon was reached.

The soft weather persisted, and we had even doubt about starting out in such a rapid thaw.
A visit to the telegraph station informed us that the warm wave was spread all over interior
Alaska and that there was general expectation of an early break-up. But if the snow on the
portage were indeed rapidly going, that was all the more reason for getting across before it
had altogether gone; so we pulled out in the warm, muggy weather, and even as we pulled out
it began to rain!

Up the little Unalaklík River, water over the ice everywhere, we went for a few miles and then
took to the tundra. All the snow had gone except just the hard snow of the trail, a winding
ribbon of white across the brown moss. The rain changed to sleet and back to rain again, and
soon we were wet through and had much trouble in keeping that penetrating, persistent drizzle
from wetting our load through the canvas cover. Though not an unique experience, it is rare
to be wet with rain on the winter trail--rarer in the interior probably than on the coast.
Once since on the Kuskokwim and once on the Fortymile it has happened to me in seven winters'
travel. We pushed on for thirty miles, past several little native villages, until we came to
Whaleback, a village part Esquimau and part Indian. These were the last Esquimaux we should
see, and I was sorry, for I had grown to like very heartily and to respect very sincerely this
kindly, gentle, industrious, good-humoured race. Surely they are a people any nation may be
proud to have fringing its otherwise uninhabitable coasts, and should be eager to aid and conserve.
There comes a feeling of impotent exasperation to me when I realise how many white men there
are who speak of them continually with the utmost contempt and see them dwindle with entire
complacency. The same thing is true in even more marked degree about the Indians of the interior:
nine tenths of the land will never have other inhabitant, of that I am convinced, and the only
question is, shall it be an inhabited wilderness or an uninhabited wilderness? Here, lodging
with the natives, and, I make no doubt, living off them too, we found a queer, skulking white
man whom I had met in several different sections of interior Alaska, known as "Snow-shoe Joe"
or "The Frozen Hobo." The arctic regions one would esteem a poor place for the hobo, but this
man manages to eke out an existence, if not to flourish, therein. Work he will not under any
circumstances, but subsists on the hospitality of the whites until he has entirely worn it
out and then removes to the natives, mushing from camp to camp and "bumming" his way as he
goes. He was on his way to Saint Michael, he told me with perfect gravity, "to get work."

[Sidenote: THE U. S. SIGNAL-CORPS]

Before dark we had reached our destination for the night at the Old Woman Mountain, the divide
between the waters of the Yukon and the waters of Norton Sound, and were kindly received and
well treated at the telegraph station, the only resort on this portage for weary travellers.
Here is surely a lonely post. For reasons connected with the maintenance of the wires and the
keeping open of communications, it is necessary to have telegraph stations every forty or fifty
miles, each with two or three men and a dog team, and shelter cabins about half-way between
stations. A wind that blows a tree down in the narrow right-of-way cut through the forest--for
we were come to forest again--or a heavy snowfall that loads branches until they fall across
the wires, a post that comes up out of its hole as the thawing of spring heaves the ground
around it, or the caving of the bank of a stream along which the line passes--any one of a
dozen such happenings anywhere along its thousand miles of course, may put the entire inland
telegraph system out of operation; and the young men in whose section the interruption occurs--they
have a means of determining that--must get out at once, find the seat of the trouble and repair
it. In all sorts of weather, unless the thermometer be below -40°, out they must go.

It may be doubted if any other army in the world ever constructed and maintained a permanent
telegraph line under such arduous conditions. It has been the army's one contribution to Alaska,
the one justification for the enormous expense of maintaining army posts in the interior. Indeed
it is often said by those who feel keenly the neglect of the territory by the general government
that this telegraph system is the one contribution of the United States to Alaska. It is certainly
a great public convenience and has assisted very materially in such development as the country
has made. The men of the signal-corps deserve great credit for the faithful, dogged way in
which they have carried out year after year their difficult and hazardous work, and often and
often the weather-stressed traveller has been grateful for the hospitality which their cabins
have afforded him.

They have not been an unmixed blessing to the country; soldiers do not usually represent the
highest morale of the nation, and though the signal-corps is in some respect a picked corps,
yet the men are soldiers, with many of the soldier characteristics. Too often a remote telegraph
station has been a little centre of drunkenness, gambling, and debauchery with a little circumference
of native men and women, and while some of the officers of the corps have been willing and
anxious to do all in their power to suppress this sort of thing in their scattered and difficult
commands, others have been jealous only for the technical efficiency of their work.

[Sidenote: MORE SNOW]

There are many allowances to be made for young men taken from the society of their kind and
thrust out hundreds of miles in the wilderness to sit down for a year or two at one of these
isolated spots. They may see no women save those amongst a straggling band of Indians for the
whole time of their exile; they may see no white man save a mail-carrier--and in many places
not even a mail-carrier--for weeks together. Time sometimes hangs very heavily on their hands,
for trees are not always blowing down, nor wires snapping through the tension of the cold,
and at some stations there will not be a dozen telegraph messages sent the whole winter through.
If a young man be at all ambitious of self-improvement, here is splendid opportunity of leisure,
but a great many are not at all so disposed. Character, except the most firmly founded, is
apt to deteriorate under such circumstances; standards of conduct to be lowered. And what is
here written of the young men of the signal-corps may well apply in great measure to a large
proportion of all the white men in the country.

The "eighty-mile portage" we had heard of at Nome became ninety miles at Unalaklík, and added
another five to itself here, so that although we had travelled forty-two miles that day we
were told that there were yet fifty-three ahead before we reached the Yukon.

So we decided not to attempt it in one day and to rest the next night at a "repair cabin" twenty-eight
miles farther, making a somewhat late start in view of a short journey. It had been wiser to
have started early. During our night at Old Woman Mountain some three inches of snow fell,
and we found as we descended the Yukon slope that all the moisture that had fallen upon us
as rain the previous day had fallen on this side as snow. The trail was filled full and buried,
and so soft and mushy was it that although snow-shoes were badly needed they were impossible.
The snow clung to them and came off the ground with them in heavy, clogging masses every time
they were lifted. It clung to the sled, to the harness, to the dogs' feet, to everything that
touched it; it gathered in ever-increasing snowballs on the long hair of the dogs. Travelling
in warm weather in loose, new snow is most disagreeable work. We plugged along for twenty miles,
and then in the dark in an open country with little patches of scattering spruce, had great
trouble in finding the trail at all.

At last we could find it no longer, and when there was no hope of reaching the cabin that night
we made a camp. We had now no tent or stove with us, so a "Siwash camp" in the open was the
best we could do, and a wet, miserable camp it was. By inexcusable carelessness on my part,
candles had been altogether forgotten in the replenishing of the supplies, and a little piece
an inch long which we found loose in the grub box was all that we possessed. Dogs and men alike
exhausted with the long day's sweating struggle through the deep snow, sleep should have come
soundly and soon. It did to the rest, but I lay awake the night through. The easy, riding travel
of the preceding week had been a poor preparation for to-day's incessant toil, and I was too
tired to sleep. In the morning our bedding was covered with a couple of inches of new snow.
My companion got up at daylight and made a journey of investigation ahead, following the trail
better, but not finding the cabin. We had thought ourselves within a mile or two of it, but
evidently were farther away. However, when we had eaten a hasty breakfast and hitched up and
had gone along the trail that had been broken that morning to its end, ten yards beyond the
place where my companion had turned back, we came in sight of the cabin, and there we lay and
rested and dried things out all day and spent the next night. During the day there came a team
from Kaltag, and once again we enjoyed the delight of receiving, and at the same time conferring,
the richest gift and greatest possible benefit to the traveller--a trail.

[Sidenote: THE YUKON ONCE MORE]

The next evening as it drew towards dark, after another day of soft, warm disagreeable travel,
we reached the end of the portage, and the broad white Yukon stretched before us once more.
Our hearts leaped up and I think the dogs' hearts leaped up also at the sight. I called to
Nanook as we stopped on the bank, "Nanook, there's the good old Yukon again!" and he lifted
his voice in that intelligent, significant bark that surely meant that he saw and understood.
We had left the Yukon on the 15th of December at Fort Yukon; we reached it again on the 23d
of March at Kaltag, more than six hundred miles lower down. We had two hundred and fifty miles
of travel on its surface before us, and then close to another two hundred and fifty up the
Tanana River to Fairbanks. But alas! for the fine Yukon trail we had promised ourselves! As
we looked out across the broad river there was no narrow, dark line undulating over its surface,
nor even a faint, continuous inequality to hint that trail had been, on snow "less hideously
serene"; its perfect smoothness and whiteness were unscarred and unsullied. The trail was wiped
out and swallowed up by the late snows and winds.

[Sidenote: A LEARNED JESUIT]

There is little interest in lingering over the long, laborious, monotonous grind up that river
on show-shoes. When one has looked forward to pleasant, quick travel, the disappointment at
slow, heavy plodding is the keener. The first little bit of trail we had was as we approached
Nulato two days later on a Sunday morning, and it was made by the villagers from below going
up to church at the Roman Catholic mission. We arrived in time for service, and enjoyed the
natives' voices raised in the Latin chants as well as in hymns wisely put into the vernacular.
It is historically a little curious to find Roman Catholic natives singing praises in their
own tongue, and Protestant missions, like those on the Kobuk and Kotzebue Sound, using a language
"not understanded of the people." The day was the Feast of the Annunciation as well as Sunday,
and there was some special decorating of the church and perhaps some elaboration of the music.
Here for the first and only time I listened to a white man so fluent and vigorous in the native
tongue that he gave one the impression of eloquence. Father Jetté of the Society of Jesus is
the most distinguished scholar in Alaska. He is the chief authority on the native language,
and manners and customs, beliefs and traditions of the Middle Yukon, and has brought to the
patient, enthusiastic labour of years the skill of the trained philologist. It is said by the
Indians that he knows more of the Indian language than any one of them does, and this is not
hard to believe when it is understood that he has systematically gleaned his knowledge from
widely scattered segments of tribes, jotting down in his note-books old forms of speech lingering
amongst isolated communities, and legends and folk-lore stories still remembered by the aged
but not much repeated nowadays; always keen to add to his store or to verify or disprove some
etymological conjecture that has occurred to his fertile mind. His work is recognised by the
ethnological societies of Europe, and much of his collected material has been printed in their
technical journals.

A man of wide general culture, master of three or four modern, as well as the classic, languages,
a mathematician, a writer of beautiful, clear English, although it is not his mother tongue,
he carries it with the modesty, the broad-minded tolerance, the easy urbanity that always adorn,
though they by no means always accompany, the profession of the scholar; and one is better
able to understand after some years' acquaintance with such a man, after falling under the
authority of his learning and the charm of his courtesy, the wonderful power which the society
he belongs to has wielded in the world. If such devotion to the instruction of the ignorant
as was described at the mission on the middle Kobuk be praiseworthy, by how much the more is
one moved to admiration at the spectacle of this man, who might fill with credit any one of
half a dozen professional chairs at the ordinary college, gladly consecrating his life to the
teaching of an Indian school!

Hearing an interest expressed in the massacre which took place at Nulato in 1851, Father Jetté
offered to accompany us to the site of that occurrence, about a mile away. It stands out prominently
in the history of a country that has been singularly free from bloodshed and outrage, and its
date is the notable date of the middle river, as the establishment of the post at Fort Yukon
by the Hudson Bay Company in 1846 is the notable date of the upper river. They are fixed points
in Indian chronology by which it is possible to approximate other dates and to reach an estimate
of the ages of old people.

[Sidenote: THE NULATO MASSACRE]

Much has been written about the Nulato massacre, and the accounts vary in many particulars.
The Russian post here was first established by Malakof in 1838. Burned during his absence by
the Indians, it was re-established by Lieutenant Zagoskin of the Russian navy in 1842. The
extortions and cruelties of his successor, Deerzhavin, complicated by a standing feud between
two native tribes, and probably having the rival powers of certain medicine-men as the match
to the mine, brought about the destruction of the place and the death of all its inhabitants,
white and native, by a sudden treacherous attack of the Koyukuk Indians. It happened that Lieutenant
Barnard of the British navy, detached from a war-ship lying at Saint Michael to journey up
the river and make inquiries of the Koyukuk natives as to wandering white men, survivors of
Sir John Franklin's expedition, who might have been seen or heard of by them, was staying at
the post at the time and perished in the general massacre. His grave, with a headboard bearing
a Latin inscription, is neatly kept up by the Jesuit priests at Nulato.

In the last few years the river has been invading the bank upon which the old village stood,
and as the earth caves in relics of the slaughter and burning come to light. Old copper kettles
and samovars, buttons and glass beads, all sorts of metal vessels and implements have been
sorted out from charred wood and ashes, together with numerous skulls and quantities of bones.
One of the most interesting of these relics was a brass button from an official coat, with
the Russian crowned double-headed eagle on the face, and on the back, upon examination with
a lens, the word "Birmingham."

Half the day serving for our day of rest this week, we were up and ready to start early the
next morning, but so violent a wind was blowing from the southeast that we decided to remain,
and the clatter of the corrugated iron roof and the whirling whiteness outside the windows
made us glad to be in shelter. As the day advanced the wind increased to almost hurricane force,
and the two-story house in which we lay began to rock in such a manner as to make the proprietor
alarmed for his dwelling.

There was an "independent" trading-post at this village which seemed to present an object-lesson
in rapacity and greed. There was not an article of standard quality in the store; the clothing
was the most rascally shoddy, the canned goods of the poorest brands; the whole stock the cheapest
stuff that could possibly be bought at bargain prices "outside," yet the prices were higher
even than those that prevail in Alaska for the best merchandise. Loud complaints are often
made against the commercial corporation which does the great bulk of the business in interior
Alaska, yet if the writer had to choose whether he would be in the hands of that company or
in the hands of an "independent" trader, he would unhesitatingly cast in his lot with the company.
The independent trader makes money, sometimes makes large money, and makes it fairly easily,
but the calling seems to appeal mainly, if not wholly, to men of low character and no conscience.
There are few things that would redound more to the benefit of the Indian than a great improvement
in the character of the men with whom he is compelled to do business.

The wind had subsided by the next morning and had been of benefit rather than injury to us,
for it had blown the accumulated new snow off the old trail so that it was possible to perceive
and follow it. But what was our surprise to find, with the recollection of that rattling roof
and swaying building fresh in our minds, that ten miles away there had been no wind at all!
The snow lay undisturbed on every twig and bough from which the gentlest breeze would have
dislodged it. One never ceases to wonder at what, for want of a better word, must be called
the localness of much of the weather in Alaska--though, for that matter, in all probability
it is characteristic of weather in all countries. The habit of continual outdoor travel gives
scope as well as edge to one's observation of such things which a life in one place denies.
That wind-storm had cut a clean swath across the Yukon valley. Yet it seems strange that so
violent a disturbance could take place without affecting and, to some extent, agitating the
atmosphere for many miles adjacent.

[Sidenote: SNOW GLASSES]

So, sometimes in snow-storm, sometimes in wind, always on snow-shoes and often hard put to
it to find and follow the trail at all, we struggled on for two or three days more, sleeping
one night at a wood-chopper's hut, another in a telegraph cabin crowded with foul-mouthed infantrymen
sent out to repair the extensive damage of the recent storm and none too pleased at the detail,
we plodded our weary way up that interminable river. At last we met the mail-man, that ever-welcome
person on the Alaskan trail, and his track greatly lightened our labour. By his permission
we broke into his padlocked cabin that night by the skilful application of an axe-edge to a
link of the chain, and were more comfortable than we had been for some time. Past the mouth
of the Koyukuk, past Grimcop, past Lowden, past Melozikaket to Kokrine's and Mouse Point, we
plugged along, making twenty-two miles one day and thirty another and then dropping again to
eighteen. The temperature dropped to zero, and a keen wind made it necessary to keep the nose
continually covered. At this time of year the covering of the nose involves a fresh annoyance,
for it deflects the breath upward, and the moisture of it continually condenses on the snow
glasses, which means continual wiping. A stick of some sort of waxy compound to be rubbed upon
the glass, bought in New York as a preventive of the deposit of moisture, proved entirely useless.
In this respect the Esquimau snow goggle, which is simply a piece of wood hollowed out into
a cup and illuminated by narrow slits, has advantage over any shape or kind of glass protection.
A French metal device of the same order that is advertised in the dealer's catalogues was found
to fail, perhaps owing to a wrong optical arrangement of the slits. It caused an eye-strain
that brought on headache. But if that principle could be scientifically worked out and such
a device perfected, it would be a boon to the traveller over sun-lit snow, for it would do
away with glass altogether, with its two chief objections--its fragility and its opacity when
covered with vapour.

[Sidenote: SNOW-BLINDNESS]

The indispensability of some eye protection when travelling in the late winter, and the serious
consequences that follow its neglect, were once again demonstrated at Mouse Point. The road-house
was crowded with "busted" stampeders coming out of the Nowikaket country. There had been a
report of a rich "strike" on a creek of the Nowitna, late the previous fall, and a number of
men from other camps--some from as far as Nome--had gone in there with "outfits" for the winter.
The stampede had been a failure; no gold was found; there was much indignant assertion that
no gold ever had been found and that the reported "strike" was a "fake," though to what end
or profit such a "fake" stampede should be caused, unless by some neighbouring trader, it is
hard to understand; and here were the stampeders streaming out again, a ragged, unkempt, sorry-looking
crowd in every variety of worn-out arctic toggery, many of them suffering from acute snow-blindness.
It is surprising that even old-timers will go out in the hills for the whole winter without
providing themselves with protection against the glare of the sun which they know will inevitably
assail their eyes before the spring, yet so it is; and this lack of forethought is not confined
to the matter of snow glasses: the first half dozen men we received in Saint Matthew's Hospital
at Fairbanks suffering from severely frozen feet were all old-timers grown careless.

Father Ragarou, another Jesuit priest of another type, reached the road-house from the opposite
direction about the same time we did, and I was interested in watching his treatment of the
inflamed eyes. Upon a disk of lead he folded a little piece of cotton cloth in the shape of
a tent, and, setting fire to it, allowed it to burn out completely. Then with a wet camel's-hair
brush he gathered up the slight yellow residuum of the combustion and painted it over the eyes,
holding the lids open with thumb and finger and drawing the brush through and through. An incredulous
spectator, noticing the sacred monogram neatly stamped upon the disk of lead, made some sneering
remark to me about "Romish superstition," but remembering the Jesuit's bark, and recalling
that I had in my writing-case at that moment a letter I had brought all the way from the Koyukuk
addressed to this very priest, begging for a further supply of a pile ointment that had proved
efficacious, I held my peace. Whether it be an oxide or a carbonate, or some salt that is formed
by the combustion, I am not chemist enough to know, but I saw man after man relieved by this
application. Even the scoffer was convinced there was merit in the treatment, though stoutly
protesting that "them letters" had nothing to do with it; which nobody took the trouble to
argue with him. My own custom--we are all of us doctors of a sort in this country--is to instil
a few drops of a five-per-cent solution of cocaine, which gives immediate temporary relief,
and then apply frequent washes of boric acid, bandaging up the eyes completely in bad cases
by cloths kept wet with the solution. But I do not know that it brings better result than the
lead treatment. Certainly it is a matter in which an ounce of any sort of prevention is better
than a pound of any sort of cure. The affection is a serious one, being nothing more or less
than acute ophthalmia; the pain is very severe, and repeated attacks are said to bring permanent
weakness of the eyes. Smoked glasses or goggles,[A] veils of green or blue or black, even a
crescent eye-shade cut out of a piece of birch-bark or cardboard and blackened on its under-side
with charcoal, will prevent the hours and sometimes days of torture which this distemper entails.

[Sidenote: HORSES AND MULES]

For a few miles we had the trail of the stampeders, but when that crossed the river we put
on our snow-shoes and settled to the steady grind once more. A day's mush brought us to "The
Birches," and another to Gold Mountain. Between the two places there was a portage, and the
trail thereon, protected by the timber, was good. We longed for the time when all trails in
Alaska shall be taken off the rivers and cut in the protecting forest. But we had gone but
a mile along this good trail when our hearts sank, for we saw ahead of us a procession of army
mules packing supplies from Fort Gibbon to the telegraph repair parties. We pulled out into
the snow that the mules might pass, and the soldiers said no word, for they knew just how we
felt, until the last soldier leading the last mule was going by, and he turned round and said:
"And her name was Maud!" It was in the height of Opper's popularity, his "comic supplements"
the chief dependence of the road-houses for wall-paper. The reference was so apposite that
we burst into laughter, but there was nothing funny about the devastation that had been wrought.
That good trail was all gone--the bottom pounded out of it--and nothing was left but a ploughed
lane punched full of sink-holes. We had no trouble following the trail on the river after this
encounter, but it had been almost as easy going to have struck out for ourselves in the unbroken
snow of the winter. It is hard to make outsiders understand how a man who loves all animals
may come to hate horses and mules, particularly mules, in this country. Our travelling is above
all a matter of surface. Distance counts and weather counts, but surface counts for more than
either. See how fast we came across the Seward Peninsula in the most distressing weather imaginable!
A well-used dog trail becomes so hard and smooth that it offers scarce any resistance to the
passage of the sled, and for walking or running over in moccasins or mukluks is the most perfect
surface imaginable. The more it is used the better it becomes. But put a horse on that trail
and in one passage it is ruined. The iron-shod hoofs break through the crust at every step
and throw up the broken pieces as they are withdrawn. With mules it is even worse; the holes
they punch are deeper and sharper. Neither man nor dog can pass over it again in comfort. One
slips and slides about at every step, the leg leaders and ankle sinews are strained, the soles
of the feet, though hardened by a thousand miles in moccasins, become sore and inflamed, and
at night there is a new sort of weariness that only a horse-ruined trail gives. As a rule,
the dog trail is of so little service to the horse or mule that it were as cheap to break out
a new one in the snow, and it is this knowledge that exasperates the dog musher. So there is
not much love lost between the horse man and the dog man in Alaska.

[Sidenote: ARMY POSTS AND NATIVES]

At last, after a night at "Old Station," we came in sight of Tanana, where is Fort Gibbon,
the one the name of the town and the post-office, the other the name of the military post and
the telegraph office. The military authorities refuse to call their post "Fort Tanana" and
the postal authorities refuse to allow the town post-office to be called "Fort Gibbon," so
there they lie, cheek by jowl, two separate places with a fence between them--a source of endless
confusion. A letter addressed to Fort Gibbon is likely to go astray and a telegram addressed
to Tanana to be refused. Stretching along a mile and a half of river bank, and beginning to
come into view ten miles before they are reached, the military and commercial structures gradually
separate themselves. Here to the left are the ugly frame buildings--all painted yellow--barracks,
canteen, officers' quarters, hospital, commissariat, and so on. Two clumsy water-towers give
height without dignity--a quality denied to military architecture in Alaska. To the right the
town begins, and an irregular row of one and two story buildings, stores, warehouses, drinking
shops, straggle along the water-front.

Unlike most towns in interior Alaska, Tanana does not depend upon an adjacent mining camp.
It owes its existence first to its geographical position as the central point of interior Alaska,
at the confluence of the Tanana and Yukon Rivers. Most of the freight and passenger traffic
for Fairbanks and the upper river is transshipped at Tanana, and extensive stocks of merchandise
are maintained there. The army post is the other important factor in the town's prosperity,
and is especially accountable for the number of saloons. Not only the soldiers, but many civilian
employees, are supported by the post, and when it is understood that three thousand cords of
wood are burned annually in the military reservation, it will be seen that quite a number of
men must find work as choppers and haulers for the wood contractors. Setting aside the maintenance
of the telegraph service, which has already been referred to, it may be said without unfairness
that the salient activities of the army in the interior of Alaska are the consumption of whisky
and wood. There is no opportunity for military training--for more than six months in the year
it is impossible to drill outdoors--and the officers complain of the retrogression of their
men in all soldierly accomplishments during the two years' detail in Alaska. Whether the prosperity
of the liquor dealer be in any real sense the prosperity of the country, and whether the rapid
destruction of the forest be compensated for by the wages paid to its destroyers, may reasonably
be doubted.

Three miles away is a considerable native village where the mission of Our Saviour of the Episcopal
Church is situated, with an attractive church building and a picturesque graveyard. The evil
influence which the town and the army post have exerted upon the Indians finds its ultimate
expression in the growth of the graveyard and the dwindling of the village.

This point at the junction of the two rivers was an important place for the inhabitants of
interior Alaska ages before the white man reached the country. Tribes from all the middle Yukon,
from the lower Yukon, from the Tanana, from the upper Kuskokwim met here for trading and for
general festivity. It is impossible nowadays to determine when first the white man's merchandise
began to penetrate into this country, but it was long before the white man came himself. Such
prized and portable articles as axes and knives passed from hand to hand and from tribe to
tribe over many hundreds of miles. Captain Cook, in 1778, found implements of white man's make
in the hands of the natives of the great inlet that was named for him after his death, and
they pointed to the Far East as the direction whence they had come. He judged that they had
been brought from the Hudson Bay factories clean across the continent. There are many Indians
still living who remember when they saw the first white man, and some were well grown at the
time, but diligent inquiry has failed to discover one who ever saw a stone axe used, though
some old men have been found who declared that their fathers, when young, used that implement.
Traces have been discovered of the importation of edge-tools from four directions--from the
mouth of the Yukon; from the Lynn Canal, by way of the headwaters of the Yukon; from the Prince
William Sound, by way of the headwaters of the Tanana; as well as from the Hudson Bay posts
in the Canadian Northwest, by way of the Porcupine River.

When the Russians established themselves at Nulato in 1842, and the Hudson Bay Company put
a post at Fort Yukon in 1846, Nuchalawóya, as Tanana was called, became the scene of commercial
rivalry, and it is said that by the meeting of the agents and voyageurs of the two companies
at this point the identity of the Yukon and Quikpak Rivers was discovered.

The stories that linger with the village ancients of the great numbers of Indians who used
to inhabit the country are doubtless based upon recollections of the gathering at old Nuchalawóya,
when furs were brought here from far and wide, when there was no other place of merchandise
in mid-Alaska. Now almost every Indian village has a trader and a store. That the race has
diminished, and in most places is still diminishing, is beyond question, but that it was ever
very largely numerous the natural conditions of the country forbid us to believe.

[Sidenote: WHISKY-PEDDLERS]

During the Reverend Jules Prevost's time at Tanana--and he was in residence in the year of
this journey--from careful vital statistics kept during two periods of five years each, the
race seemed barely to be holding its own; but since that time there has been a considerable
decline, coincident with the increase of drunkenness and debauchery at the village when Mr.
Prevost's firm hand and watchful eye were withdrawn. The situation tends to grow worse, and
while one does not give up hope, for that would mean to give up serious effort, the outlook
for the Indians at this place seems unfavourable. Two hundred soldiers, six or eight liquor
shops,--the number varies from year to year,--three miles off a native village of perhaps one
hundred and fifty souls, and dotting those intervening miles cabins chiefly occupied by "bootleggers"
and go-betweens--that is the Tanana situation in a nutshell. The men desire the native girls,
and the liquor is largely a lure to get them. Tuberculosis and venereal disease are rife, and
the two make a terribly fatal combination amongst Indians.

It was good to enjoy Mr. and Mrs. Prevost's hospitality, and it was good to speak through such
an admirable interpreter as Paul. Something more than intelligence and knowledge of the languages
are required to make a good interpreter; there must be sympathy and the ability to take fire.
With such an interpreter, leaping at the speaker's thoughts, carrying himself entirely into
his changing moods, rising to vehemence with him and again dropping to gentleness, forgetting
himself in his identification with his principal, there is real pleasure in speaking to the
natives who hang upon his vicarious lips. On the other hand, one of the most intelligent mission
interpreters in the country is also so phlegmatic in disposition, so lifeless and monotonous
in his speech, and particularly so impassive of countenance, that he reminds one of Napoleon's
saying about Talleyrand: that if some one kicked him behind while he was speaking to you his
face would give no sign of it at all.

[Sidenote: CHENA AND FAIRBANKS]

It is not necessary to write much detail of the two-hundred-mile journey to Fairbanks up the
Tanana River. The trail was then wholly on the river, but now it has been taken wholly off,
as every Alaskan musher hopes some day will be done with all trails. The region about the mouth
of the river and for some miles up is one of the windiest in the country, and there is always
troublesome crossing of bare sand-bars and of ice over which sand has been blown. The journey
hastens to its close; men and dogs alike realise it, and push on willingly over longer stages
than they had before attempted.

Two days from Tanana we were luxuriating in the natural hot springs near Baker Creek, wallowing
in the crude wooden vat, when "Daddy Karstner" had shovelled enough snow in to make entering
the water possible, and emerging ruddy as boiled lobsters. It was a beautiful and interesting
spot then, with noble groves of birch and the finest grove of cottonwood-trees in Alaska--all
cut down now--all ruined in a plunging and bounding and quite unsuccessful attempt to make
a "Health Resort" of the place for the "smart set" of Fairbanks. It is a scurvy trick of Fortune
when she gives large wealth to a man with no feeling for trees. We spent Sunday there and roamed
over the curious domain, snow-free amidst all the surrounding snow, rank in vegetation amidst
the yet-lingering winter death; and then we wallowed again.

Tolovana, Nenana, and then one long run of fifty-four miles, the longest and last run of the
winter, and--Chena and Fairbanks. But just before we reached Chena, as we passed the fish camp
where the dogs had been boarded the previous summer, Nanook stopped the whole team, looked
up at the bank and gave utterance to his pronounced five barks on the descending scale. None
of the other dogs seemed to notice or recognise the place, but Nanook said as plainly as if
he had uttered speech: "Well, well! there's where I spent last summer!"

We reached Fairbanks on the 11th of April, in time for Good Friday and Easter, after an absence
of four months and a half--with the accumulated mail of all that period awaiting me. The distance
covered was about twenty-two hundred miles, three fourths of it on foot, more than half of
it on snow-shoes. At Chena I had called up the hospital at Fairbanks on the telephone, and
the exchange operator had immediately recognised my voice and bidden me welcome; but when I
reached Fairbanks, a light beard that I had suffered to grow during the winter made me unrecognisable
by those who knew me best. So effectually does a beard disguise a man and so surely may his
voice identify him.

FOOTNOTE:

[A] This was written before the writer learned the superior protection afforded by amber glass.

CHAPTER VI

THE "FIRST ICE"--AN AUTUMN ADVENTURE ON THE KOYUKUK

IT is not attempted in this narrative to give separate account of all the journeys with which
it deals. That would involve much repetition and tedious detail. Our long journey has been
described from start to finish, taking the reader far north of the Yukon, then almost to the
extreme west of Alaska, and then round by the Yukon to mid-Alaska again. It is proposed now
to give sketches of such parts of other journeys as do not cover the same ground, and they
will lie, with one exception, south of the Yukon. While visiting many of the same points every
winter, it has been within the author's good fortune and contrivance to include each year some
new stretch of country, sometimes searching out and visiting a new tribe of natives, and blazing
the way for the establishment of permanent missionary work amongst them. To these initial journeys
belongs a zest that no subsequent travels in the same region ever have; there is a keen interest
in what every new turn of a trail shall bring, every new bend of a river; there is eagerness
rising with one's rising steps to excitement for the view from a new mountain pass; above all,
there is deep satisfaction coupled with a sense of solemn responsibility in being the first
to reach some remote band of Indians and preach to them the Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ.
There are few men nowadays on the North American continent to whom that privilege remains.

A period of nearly three years elapses between the beginning of the journey that has already
been described and the short sketch of a journey that follows. Many things had happened in
those three years. It had been the happy duty of the writer to return to the Koyukuk late in
the winter of 1906-7, empowered to build the promised mission for the hitherto neglected natives
of that region. Pitching tent at a spot opposite the mouth of the Alatna, with the aid of a
skilled carpenter and a couple of axemen brought from the mining district above, and the labour
of the Indians, the little log church and the mission house were put up and prepared for the
two ladies--a trained nurse and a teacher--who should arrive on the first steamboat. The steamboat
that brought them in carried him out on its return trip, and the next year was spent in the
States making known the needs of the work in Alaska and securing funds for its advancement.

[Sidenote: DOCTOR GRAFTON BURKE]

On my return I brought with me a young physician, Doctor Grafton Burke, as a medical missionary,
and a half-breed Alaskan youth, Arthur, who had been at school in California, as attendant
and interpreter. A thirty-two-foot gasoline launch designed for the Yukon and its tributaries
was also brought and was launched at the head of Yukon navigation at Whitehouse. The voyages
of the Pelican on almost all the navigable waters of interior Alaska do not belong to a narrative
concerned solely with winter travel, but her maiden voyage ended in an unexpected and rather
extraordinary journey over the ice which is perhaps worth describing. After the voyage down
the Yukon, and up and down the Tanana, it was purposed to take the boat up the Koyukuk to the
new mission at the Allakaket, where dogs and gear had been left, and put her in winter quarters
there. The delays that associate themselves not unnaturally with three novices and a four-cylinder
gasoline engine, had brought the date for ascending the Koyukuk a little too late for safety,
though still well within the ordinary season of open water. The possibility of an early winter
closing the navigation of that stream before the Pelican reached her destination had been entertained
and provided against, though it seemed remote. Three dogs, needed anyway to replace superannuated
members of the team, had been bargained for at Tanana and accommodations for them arranged,
and a supply of dog fish stowed on the after deck of the launch. But when we went to pay the
arranged price and receive the dogs, the vender's wife and children set up such a remonstrance
and plaintive to-do that he went back on his bargain and we did not get the dogs. There was
no time to hunt others, to linger was to invite the very mishap we sought to guard against,
so we pulled out dogless, reached the mouth of the Koyukuk on the 17th of September and, having
taken on board the supply of gasoline cached there, turned our bow up the river the next morning.
For five days we pushed up the waters of that great, lonely river, and by that time we were
some twenty-five miles above Hogatzakaket, three hundred and twenty-five miles from the mouth
and one hundred and twenty-five miles from the mission, at the camp of a prospector who had
recently poled up from the Yukon. We woke on board the launch the next morning to find ice
formed all around us and ice running in the river. The thermometer had gone to zero in the night.

[Sidenote: THE RUNNING ICE]

A very brief attempt to make our way against the running ice showed the danger of doing so,
for the thin cakes had knife-edges and cut the planking of the boat so that she began to leak.
Then there came to me with some bitterness that I had earnestly desired a thin steel armour-plating
at the water-line, but had allowed myself to be persuaded out of it by her builders. So again
my forethought had been of no avail--though, of course, lightness of draught was the first
consideration. We put back to the camp and proceeded to flatten out and cut up all the empty
cans and tinware we could find and nail it along the water-line of the boat, but the prospector
persuaded us to wait a day or two. He had never seen a river close with the first little run
of ice. He looked for a soft spell and open water yet. It was foolish to risk the boat against
the ice. So we waited; and night after night the thermometer fell a little lower and a little
lower, until presently a sheet of ice stretched across the whole river in the bend where we
lay. We were frozen in. The remote possibility we had feared and sought to guard against had
happened. Navigation had ceased on the Koyukuk at the earliest date anybody remembered, the
23d of September. Three days more had surely taken us to the mission where they had long expected
us; now we should have to make our way on foot, without dogs, on the dangerous "first ice,"
as it is called, taking all sorts of chances, pulling a Yukon sled, with tent and stove, grub
and bedding, "by the back of the face."

But first there was the launch to pull out and make snug for the winter and safe against the
spring break-up. A convenient little creek mouth with easy grade offered, which was one of
the reasons I had not pushed on the few more miles we could have made. Here were eligible winter
quarters; farther on we might have trouble in putting the boat in safety; here also was a kindly
and capable man willing to assist us.

It was our great good fortune to find this man at this spot. A steamboat he had signalled as
she entered the mouth of the Koyukuk had passed him by unheeded, and he had been left to make
his way six hundred miles up to the diggings, with his winter's outfit in a poling boat. He
had accomplished more than half the task, and, warned by the approach of winter, had stopped
at this place a few days before we reached it, and had begun the building of a little cabin;
meaning to prospect the creek, which had taken his eye as having a promising look. The cabin
we helped him finish was the twenty-first cabin he had built in Alaska, he informed us.

There is something very impressive about the quiet, self-reliant, unrecorded hardihood of the
class of which this man was an excellent type. We asked him why he had no partner, and he said
he had had several partners, but they all snored, and he would not live with a man that snored.
He had prospected and mined in many districts of Alaska during nearly twenty years. Once he
had sold a claim for a few hundred dollars that had yielded many thousands to the purchaser,
and that was as near wealth as he had ever come. But he had always made a living, always had
enough money at the close of the summer to buy his winter's "outfit" and try his luck somewhere
else.

[Sidenote: THE PROSPECTOR]

Singly, or in pairs, men of this type have wandered all over this vast country: preceding the
government surveys, preceding the professional explorer, settling down for a winter on some
creek that caught their fancy, building a cabin, thawing down a few holes to bed-rock, sometimes
taking out a little gold, more often finding nothing, going in the summer to some old-established
camp to work for wages, or finding employment as deck-hand on a steamboat.

With an axe and an auger they have dotted their rough habitations all over the country; with
a pick and a shovel and a gold pan they have tested the gravels of innumerable creeks. They
know the drainage slopes and the practicable mountain passes, the haunts of the moose and the
time and direction of the caribou's wanderings. The boats they have built have pushed their
noses to the heads of all navigable streams; the sleds they have made have furrowed the remotest
snows. In the arts of the wilderness they are the equal of the native inhabitant; in endurance
and enterprise far his superior. The more one learns by experience and observation what life
of this sort means, and realises the demands it makes upon a man's resourcefulness, upon his
physique, upon his good spirits, upon his fortitude, the more one's admiration grows for the
silent, strong men who have gone out all over this land and pitted themselves successfully
against its savage wildness. Often in stress for the necessaries of life, there are yet no
men as a class more free-handed and generous; trained to do everything for themselves, there
are none more willing to help others.

It is no small task to pull a four-ton boat out of the water with only such wilderness tackle
as we could devise. We made ways of soft timbers, squaring and smoothing them; we cut down
many trees for rollers; we dug and graded the beach. Then, having altogether unloaded her and
built a high cache of poles and a platform for her stuff, and having chopped the ice from all
around her, we rigged a Spanish windlass and wound that boat out of the water with the half-inch
cable she carried, and up on the ways and well into the mouth of the little creek. Then we
levelled her up and thoroughly braced her and put her canvas cover all over her, and she lay
there until spring and took no harm at all.

Arthur had meantime been making a sled of birch, intending to pull it himself while the doctor
and I pulled a Yukon sled borrowed from our friend the prospector. By the 6th of October all
our dispositions were made for departure, and the ice seemed strong enough to warrant trusting
ourselves to it; but we waited another two days, the thermometer still reaching a minimum each
night somewhere around zero. When we said good-bye to our friend Martin Nelson (sometimes one
wonders if anywhere else in the world can be found men as kind and helpful to strangers) and
started on our journey, it soon appeared that Arthur's sled was more hindrance than help. There
was no material to iron the runners save strips of tin can, and these could not be beaten so
smooth that they did not drag and cut on the ice. So the load was transferred to our sled and
the little sled abandoned, and we took turns at the harness. This was the order of the journey:
one man went ahead with an axe to test the ice; one man put the rope trace about his shoulders;
one man pushed at the handle-bars which had been affixed to the sled. It was fortunate that
amidst the equipment on the launch were two pairs of ice-creepers. Without them any sort of
pulling and pushing on the glare ice would have been impossible.

We soon found that the bend in which we had frozen was no sort of index of the general condition
of the river. Much of it was still wide open, and every elbow between bends was piled high
with rough ice from pressure jams. There was shore ice, however, even in the open bends, along
which we were able to creep; and, though the ice-jams gave considerable trouble, yet we did
very well the first day and camped at dark with eighteen or nineteen miles to our credit, in
the presence of a great, red, smoky sunset and a glorious alpenglow on a distant snow mountain.

The next day was full of risks and difficulties. We were to learn more about the varieties
and vagaries of ice on that journey than many winters' travel on older ice would teach.

[Sidenote: THE START]

At times, for a few hundred yards, the sled would glide with little effort over smooth, polished
ice; then would come a long sand-bar, the side of which we had to hug close, and the ice upon
it was what is called "shell-ice," through several layers of which we broke at every step.
As the river fell, each night had left a thin sheet of ice underneath the preceding night's
ice, and the foot crashed through the layers and the sled runners cut through them down to
the gravel and sand at the bottom. Then would come another smooth stretch on which we made
good time. But as we advanced up the river the current was swifter and swifter and the ice
conditions grew steadily worse. Here was a steep-cut bank with just about eighteen or twenty
inches of ice adhering to it and the black, rushing water beyond. We must either get our load
along that shelf or unload the sled and pack everything over the face of a rocky bluff. Arthur
passed over it first, testing gently with the axe, and found it none too strong. But the alternative
was so toilsome that we resolved to take the chance. The doctor put the trace over his shoulders,
Arthur took the handle-bars, while I climbed to a ledge of the rocks and, with a rope made
of a pair of camel's-hair puttees unwound for the purpose and fastened to the sled, took all
the weight I could and eased the sled over the worst place where the ice sloped to the water.
If the ice had broken I might have held the sled from sinking until one of the others came
to me, or I might not; the boys would probably have gone in too. It was a most risky spot and
the sort of chance no one would think of taking under ordinary circumstances. As it was, the
ice broke under Arthur's feet, and only by throwing his weight on the sled did he save himself
a ducking. But we got the load safely across.

A good run of perhaps a mile, and then we had to go back at least half a mile, for the ice
played out altogether on our side of the river as we reached the Batzakaket, and there was
open water in the middle. To reach the shore ice that was continuous on the other side, we
had to "double" the open water. With such varying fortune the day passed, and we camped on
the level ice of a little creek tributary to the right bank, having made perhaps another nineteen
miles.

