Surely poetry and tradition have but here divined certain truths, omnipotent behind a veil,
and recognized their symbols in these chosen blossoms?

But if the flowers are truly types, how should they be interpreted?

There are hints laid in their very structure and outer semblance, hints afforded also by art
and romance from time immemorial; and all these, suggestions of the hidden wisdom, must be
gathered patiently and wrought out to a fuller clearness, through careful attention to the
intuitions of one's own awakened imagination.

But what expression can be found for the soul of a flower--for the evanescent odor that floats
upon us only with the dimmest mists of meaning?

In a novel of a few years since, a people dwelling in Mid Africa are described as skilled in
the acts of a singular civilization, and especial mention is made of an instrument analogous
to an organ, but which evoked perfumes instead of musical sounds. A curious idea, but possibly
giving the nearest representation to be made of the effect of odor: by its help, then, by regarding
flowers as instruments whose fragrant utterances might be as well conveyed in music, we may
be able to translate aright the effluence that stirs beyond the reach of speech.

Let us now try to distinguish, if only for a pleasant pastime, some few favorite strains in
those wonderful, unheard melodies with which our gardens ring.

Hear first the roses. The beautiful blush rose, opening fresh and rosy on a dewy June morning,
echoes gleefully the birds' 'secret jargoning.'

The saffron tea-rose is an exotic of exotics, and the daintiest of fine ladies bears it in
her jewelled fingers to the opera, and there imbues it with the languid ecstasy of an Italian
melody. The aroma, floating round those creamy buds, vibrates to the impassioned agony of artistic
luxury--to the pleasurable pain that dies away in rippling undulations of the tones.

But the red rose is dyed deep with simpler passion. War notes are hers, but not trumpet tongued,
as they pour from out the fiery cactus. No; it is as if a woman's heart thrilled through the
red rose to sadden the reveille for country and for God!--an irrepressible undertone of mourning
surging over the anguish that must surely come.

Love songs belong, too, to the damask rose, but love still set to martial chords, wrung, as
it were, from heroes' wives, in a rapture of patriotic sacrifice.

The white roses are St. Cecilia's, and swell to organ strains; all but that whitest rose, so
wan and fragile, which haunts old shady gardens, and never seems to have been there when all
things were in their prime, but to have blossomed out of the surrounding decay and fading loveliness.
From its bowed head falls drearily upon the ear a low lament over the departed life it would
commemorate.

With roses comes the honeysuckle--the real New England one--brimful of nutmeg; and the sweetbriar,
piquant with a L'Allegro strain left by Milton. Then the laburnum, which, dripping gold, drips
honey likewise, and the locust clusters, and the wistaria, dropping lusciousness.

These are all joy-bells evidently, outbursts of the bliss of nature, but the garb of the wistaria
is more sober than her brilliant sisters, whose attire is bright and shining.

There are flowers that seem set to sacred music. Lilies, white and sweet, which, from the Lily
of the Annunciation to the lily of the valley, are hallowed by every reverent fancy; for

  'In the beauty of the lilies
  Christ was born across the sea.'

And the little white verbena, which recalls, in some mystic way, the old Puritan tune, 'Naomi,'
whose words of calm submission are so closely interwoven with one's earliest religious faith.

But in contrast to this meek northern saint of a flower, there is a southern flush of oleander
bloom, that pours out hymns of mystical devotion, overflowing with the exuberant vitality,
glowing with the intense fervor, of the Tropics.

There are flowers, also, the burden of whose odorous airs is sensibly of this world only, earthy,
sensuous. Such are the cape jessamine and the narcissus, alike glistening in satin raiment,
and alike distilling aromatic essence. Something akin to the waltzes of Strauss, one might
fancy, is the music suited to their mood.

And the night-blooming cercus--that uncanny white witch of a creature, with its petals moulded
in wax or ivory, its golden-brown leaf-sheathings, and its unequalled emerald (is it a tint,
or is it but a shadow?) far down within the lovely cup, with that overpowering voluptuous odor,
burdening the atmosphere, permeating the innermost fibres of sensation, steeping the soul in
lethargy! What more fit exponent can there be for this weird plant's expression than the song
of the serpent-charmer, the singing which can root the feet unto the ground and stay the flowing
of the impetuous blood?

But carnations have a wide-awake aspect, which brings one back to every-day life again. Their
pleasant pungency is like a bugle note. They seem glad to start the nerves of human beings.

The tulips have taken the sun home to them. Deep down in their hearts you smell it, while you
listen to a cheery carol welling up from the comfort warm within.

The pond lilies likewise breathe forth the inspiration of the sun. And they chant in their
pure home thanksgivings therefore, happy songs of chaste praise.

These are flowers which look their fragrance; but there are those that startle by the contrast
between their outer being and their inner spirit.

What an intoxicating draught the obscure heliotrope offers! One thinks of Heloise in the garments
of a nun. The arbutus, also, and the dear daphne-cups, plain, unnoticeable little things, remind
one of the nightingales, so insignificant in their appearance, so peerless in their gushes
of delicious breath.

The demure Quaker is like the peculiar fragrance of the mignonette. It is hard to believe so
many people really like mignonette as profess to do so, it has such a caviare-to-the-general
odor. The popular taste here would seem really guided by a fashion of fastidiousness. But the
lemon verbena--which, if not a flower, is so high-bred an herb that it deserves to be considered
one--one can easily see why that is valued. What a refined, spirituelle smell it has? Hypatia
might have worn it, or Lady Jane Grey--or better still, Mrs. Browning's Lady Geraldine might
have plucked it in the pauses of the 'woodland singing' the poet tells of.

Nature is very liberal in all things; and we have coarse and disagreeable flower odors, supplied
by peonies, marigolds, the gay bouvardia, and a still more odious greenhouse flower--a yellowish,
toadlike thing, which those who have once known will never forget, and for which perhaps they
can supply a name. If odor be the flower's expression of its soul, what rude and evil tenants
must dwell within those luckless mansions!

But if a flower's soul speaks through odor, what of scentless blossoms? Are they dumb or dead?
Some may be too young to speak--as the infantile anemones, daisies, and innocents.

Perhaps some are thus most meet for symbols of the dead; the stately, frozen calla, which seems
a fit trophy, bound with laurel leaves, to lay upon a soldier's bier; and the snow-cold camelia,
whose stony sculpturing is the very emblem for those white features whence God has drained
away the life.

But, camelias warmed with color, fuchsias, abutilons, the cultivated azalia (the wild one has
a scent), asters, and a host of other loved and lovely flowers--why are they deprived of language?

Perhaps they have a fragrance, felt by subtler senses than we mortals own. But, at least, if
they must now appear as mute, we may yet hope that in a more spiritual existence we shall behold
their very doubles, gifted with a novel charm, a captivating perfume, we cannot conceive of
here. For in the vast harmony of the universe one cannot believe there can be any floral instruments
whose strings are never to be awakened.

It has been but the pastime of a half hour that we have given to the flower odors, when an
ever-widening field for speculation lies before us. But imagination droops exhausted, baffled
by the innumerable enchanting riddles still to solve. And this must now suffice.

If it serve to excite any dormant thought in the more ingenious mind of another--if it be able
to call out the learned conceits of some scholar, or the delicate symbolisms of some dreamer,
it has done its work.

The hand that has thus far guided the pen, to dally with a subject all the dearer because so
generally disregarded, will now gladly yield it to the control of a fresher fancy, a truer
observation.

LOCOMOTION.

The utilitarian spirit of the age is strikingly exhibited in the intense desire to diminish
the quantity of time necessary to pass from one spot of the earth's surface to another, and
to communicate almost instantaneously with a remote distance. The great triumphs of genius,
within the last half century, have been accomplished within the domain of commerce. And in
contemplating the progress which has ensued, it is a cause of humiliation that, as in the case
of other great discoveries, so many centuries have elapsed, during which the powers of steam,
an element almost constantly within the observation of man, were, although perceived, unemployed.
But reflection upon the nature of man, and his slow advancement in the great path of fact and
science, will at once hush the expression of our wondering regret over the past, while a nobler
occupation for the mind offers itself in speculation upon the future. The plank road, the canal,
the steamboat, and the railway, are all the productions of the last few years. At the close
of the last century, with the exception of a few military roads inherited from the Romans,
and the roads of the same description constructed by Napoleon, the means of communication between
distant parts was almost entirely confined to inland seas and the larger rivers. It is for
this reason that the maritime cities and provinces attained such disproportionate wealth.

The invention of chariots, and the manner of harnessing horses to draw them, is ascribed to
Ericthonius of Athens, B.C. 1486. The chariots of the ancients were like our phaetons, and
drawn by one horse. The invention of the chaise, or calash, is ascribed to Augustus Cæsar,
about A.D. 7. Postchaises were introduced by Trajan about A.D. 100. Carriages were known in
France in the reign of Henry II., A.D. 1547; there were but three in Paris in 1550; they were
of rude construction. Henry IV. had one, but it was without straps or springs. A strong cob-horse
(haquenée) was let for short journeys; latterly these were harnessed to a plain vehicle, called
coche-a-haquenée: hence the name, hackney coach. They were first let for hire in Paris, in
1650, at the Hotel Fiacre. They were known in England in 1555, but not the art of making them.
When first manufactured in England, during the reign of Elizabeth, they were called whirlicotes.
The duke of Buckingham, in 1619, drove six horses, and the duke of Northumberland, in rivalry,
drove eight. Cabs are also of Parisian origin, where the driver sat in the inside; but the
aristocratic tastes of the English suggested the propriety of compelling the driver to be seated
outside. Omnibuses also originated in Paris, and were introduced into London in 1827, by an
enterprising coach proprietor named Shillaber. They were introduced into New York, in 1828,
by Kipp & Brown. Horse railroads were introduced into New York, in 1851, upon the Sixth Avenue.

In 1660 there were but six stage coaches in England; two days were occupied in passing from
London to Oxford, fifty-four miles. It excited as much interest as the opening of a new railway
in our time. The Newcastle Courant, of October 11th, 1812, advertises 'that all that desire
to pass from Edinborough to London, or from London to Edinborough, or any place on that road,
let them repair to Mr. John Baillie's, at the Coach and Horses, at the head of Cannongate,
Edinborough, every other Saturday; or to the Black Swan, in Holborn, every other Monday; at
both of which places they may be received in a stage coach, which performs the whole journey
in thirteen days, without any stoppage (if God permit), having eighty able horses to perform
the whole stage--each passenger paying £4 10s. for the whole journey. The coach sets out at
six in the morning.' And it was not until 1825 that a daily line of stage coaches was established
between the two cities, accomplishing the distance in forty-six hours. And even so late as
1835 there were only seven coaches which ran daily.

In 1743, Benjamin Franklin, postmaster of Philadelphia, in an advertisement, dated April 14th,
announces 'that the northern post will set out for New York on Thursdays, at three o'clock
in the afternoon, till Christmas. The southern post sets out next Monday for Annapolis, and
continues going every fortnight during the summer season.' In 1773, Josiah Quincy, father and
grandfather of the mayors of that name, of Boston, spent thirty-three days upon a journey from
Georgetown, South Carolina, to Philadelphia. In 1775, General Washington was eleven days going
from Philadelphia to Boston; upon his arrival at Watertown the citizens turned out and congratulated
him upon the speed of his journey! Fifty years ago the regular mail time, between New York
and Albany, was eight days. Even as late as 1824, the United States mail was thirty-two days
in passing from Portland to New Orleans. The news of the death of Napoleon Bonaparte, at St.
Helena, May 5th, 1821, reached New York on the fifteenth day of August.

Canals were known to the ancients, and have been used, in a small way, by all nations, particularly
the Dutch. But the world did not awake to their importance until 1817, when the State of New
York entered upon the Erie Canal project, which was completed in 1825. The introduction of
steamboats for river navigation, and of locomotives upon railways, have superseded canals,
and invested them with an air of antiquity. It was not until 1807 that Robert Fulton put his
first vessel in operation on the Hudson River.

To the American steamship Savannah, built by Croker & Fickett, at Corlear's Hook, New York,
is universally conceded the honor of being the first steam-propelled vessel that ever crossed
the Atlantic ocean. She was three hundred and eighty tons burden, ship-rigged, and was equipped
with a horizontal engine, placed between decks, with boilers in the hold. She was built through
the agency of Captain Moses Rogers, by a company of gentlemen, with a view of selling her to
the emperor of Russia. She sailed from New York in 1819, and went first to Savannah; thence
she proceeded direct to Liverpool, where she arrived after a passage of eighteen days, during
seven of which she was under steam. As it was nearly or quite impossible to carry sufficient
fuel for the voyage, during pleasant weather the wheels were removed, and canvas substituted.
At Liverpool she was visited by many persons of distinction, and afterward departed for Elsinore,
on her way to St. Petersburg. She was not, however, sold as expected, and next touched at Copenhagen,
where Captain Rogers was offered one hundred thousand dollars for her by the king of Sweden;
but the offer was declined. She then sailed for home, putting into Elsington, on the coast
of Norway. From the latter place she was twenty-two days in reaching Savannah. On account of
the high price of fuel, she carried no steam on the return passage, and the wheels were taken
off. Upon the completion of the voyage, she was purchased by Captain Nathaniel Holdredge, divested
of her steam apparatus, and run as a packet between Savannah and New York. She subsequently
went ashore on Long Island, and broke up. Sixty thousand dollars were sunk in the transaction.
Captain Rogers died a few years ago on the Pee Dee river, North Carolina. He is believed to
be the first man that ran a steamboat to Philadelphia or Baltimore. The mate was named Stephen
Rogers, and was living a few years ago at New London, Connecticut.

The first railway in England was between Stockton and Darlington; and the first locomotive
built in the world was used upon that road, and is still in existence, being preserved at Darlington
depot, upon a platform erected for the purpose; the date 1825 is engraved upon its plate. The
first railway charter in the United States was granted March 4th, 1826, to Thomas H. Perkins
and others, 'to convey granite from the ledges in Quincy to tidewater in that town.' The first
railway in the United States upon which passengers were conveyed, was the Baltimore and Ohio,
which was opened December 28, 1829, to Ellicott's Mills, thirteen miles from Baltimore. A single
horse was attached to two of Winan's carriages, containing forty-one persons, which were drawn,
with ease, eleven miles per hour. The South Carolina Railway, from Charleston to Hamburg, was
the first constructed in the United States with a view to use steam instead of animal power.
The first locomotive constructed in the United States was built for this road. It was named
the Best Friend, and afterward changed to Phoenix. It was built at the West Point foundery
by the Messrs. Kemble, under the direction of E.L. Miller, Esq. Its performance was tested
on the 9th December, 1830, and exceeded expectations. To Mr. Miller, therefore, belongs the
honor of planning and constructing the first locomotive operated in the United States. This
road was the first to carry the United States mail, and, when completed, October 2d, 1833,
one hundred and thirty-seven miles in length, was the longest railway in the world. The number
of miles of railway in operation in the United States, at the present time, is thirty-two thousand;
and the number of passengers conveyed upon them in 1863 was one hundred millions. Railways
did not cross the Mississippi river until 1851. The number of miles of railway in the world
is seventy-two thousand; and the amount of steamboat tonnage is five millions of tons.

Yet more astonishing than the railway is the magnetic telegraph, whose exploits are literally
miraculous, annihilating space and time. The extremities of the globe are brought into immediate
contact; the merchant, the friend, or the lover converses with whom he wishes, though thousands
of miles apart, as if they occupied the same parlor; and the speech uttered in Washington to-day
may be read in San Francisco three hours before it is delivered. Could the wires be extended
around the globe, we should be able to hear the news one day before it occurred.

LITERARY NOTICES.

     NAOMI TORRENTE: The History of a Woman. By GERTRUDE F. DE VINGUT.
     'Every dream of love argues a reality in the world of supreme
     beauty. Believe all that thy heart prompts, for everything that it
     seeks, exists.'--Plato. New York: John Bradburn (late M.
     Doolady), publisher, 49 Walker street.

Who could look on the fair high face, facing our title page, and have the heart to criticize
the revelations of its soul? Naomi is a book of feeling, passion, and considerable, if not
yet mature, power. It is dedicated to Sr. Dn. Juan Clemente Zenea, editor of La Charanga, Havana.
Our authoress says in her dedication: 'It is to you, therefore; and those who like you have
deeply felt, that the history of a woman's soul-life will prove more interesting than the mere
narrative of the chances and occurrences that make up the every-day natural existence.' Naomi
is a woman of artistic genius and passionate character, becalmed in the stagnation of conventional
life, who, throwing off the fetters of an uncongenial and inconsiderate marriage, attempts
to find happiness and independence in the cultivation of her own powers. She is eminently successful
as prima donna, is brilliant and self-sustained--but fails to attain the imagined happiness,
the Love-Eden so fervently sought.

     MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS. By the Author of 'The Queen of the
     Country,' 'The Challenge,' etc. 'Queen Rose of the Rosebud garden
     of girls.'--Tennyson. Loring, publisher, 314 Washington street,
     Boston. 1864.

A novel of domestic life, in which the plot, apparently simple, is yet artistic and skilfully
managed. The thread of life of the bridesmaids is held with that of the bride, the development
of character, distinctly marked in each, progresses through a series of natural events, until
the young people reach the point of life when impulse settles into principle, amiability into
virtue, generosity into self-abnegation, and we feel that each may now be safely left to life
as it is, that circumstance can no longer mould character, and are willing to leave them, certain
they will henceforth remain true to themselves, and to those whose happiness may depend upon
them, whatever else may betide. The bride is a pure, sweet, generous woman, but the character
of the book is decidedly Lotty. Childish, petite, and indulged, she is yet magnanimous, brave,
and self-sacrificing; fiery, fearless, and frank, she is still patient, forbearing, and reticent;
we love her as child, while we soon learn to venerate her as woman. She and her docile bloodhound,
Bear, form pictures full of magic contrast, groups of which we never tire. The cordiality and
heartiness of her admiring relatives, the Beauvilliers, are contagious; we live for the time
in their life, and grow stronger as we read. The book is charming. Its moral is unexceptionable,
its characters well drawn, its plot and incidents simple and natural, and its interest sustained
from beginning to end. 1864.

Tennyson has so many devoted admirers, that this volume cannot fail to receive due attention.
The principal poem therein, Enoch Arden, is one of touching pathos and simplicity. Three children,
Enoch Arden, Philip Ray, and Annie Lee, grew up together on the British coast a hundred years
ago. Both youths loved Annie: she loved and married Enoch. They live happily together until
three children are born to the house: then poverty threatens, and Arden leaves home to provide
for the loved ones. He is cast away on an island, is not heard, from for ten years, and Annie
reluctantly consents to marry Philip, who has been a father to her children during their long
orphanage. Arden returns at last to his native village, so old, gray, and broken, that no one
recognizes him. He hears how true his wife had been to him until all hope had died away, and
how Philip cared for her peace, and cherished his children. The wretched man resolves to bear
his grief in silence, and never to bring agony and shame to a peaceful home by disclosing his
return. He does this in a spirit of Christian self-abnegation, lives near the unconscious darlings
of his heart, earns his frugal living, watching round, but never entering the lost Paradise
of his youth. He dies, and only at the hour of death, reveals to Annie how he had lived and
loved. The theme of this tale has often been taken before. It has been elaborated with passion
and power in the 'Homeward Bound' of Adelaide Procter, a poetess too little known among us.

There is great purity of delineation and conception in Enoch Arden. The characters stand out
real and palpable in their statuesque simplicity. There is agony enough, but neither impatience
nor sin. The epithets are well chosen; but the usual wildering sensuousness of Tennyson's glowing
imagery is subdued and tender throughout the progress of this melancholy tale.

'Aylmer's Field,' about the same length, is a poem of more stormy mould. It hurls fierce rebukes
at family pride, and just censures at tyrannical parents.

The volume contains many shorter poems, some of which are already familiar to our readers.

We like 'Azarian' better than any work we have yet seen from Miss Prescott. Ruth Yetton, the
heroine, is so truly feminine, she might serve as a type of half our innocent maidens from
sixteen to twenty. Azarian is real and drawn to the life, a hero who has his counterpart in
every civilized city; a man of savoir-vivre, glittering and attractive, but selfish, inconsequent,
frivolous, and deadly to the peace of those who love him. Miss Prescott's style is elaborate
and florid, frequently of rare beauty, always giving evidence of culture and scholarship. Do
we find fault with the hundred-leaved rose? Her fancy is luxuriant, of more power than her
imagination. Her descriptions of flowers in the volume before us are accurate and tenderly
beautiful. She knows them all, and evidently loves them well. Nor are the fragile blossoms
of the trees less dear to her. She reads their secrets, and treasures them in her heart. She
paints them with her glowing words, and placing our old darlings before us again, exultingly
points out their hidden charms. New York: Oliver S. Felt. 1864.

The author of this pleasant, unpretending little book visited the 'great wilderness of Northern
New York, which lies in St. Lawrence county, on the western slope of the Adirondack Mountains.
It forms part of an extensive plateau, embracing an area of many thousand square miles, and
is elevated from fifteen to eighteen hundred feet above the sea. The mineral resources of the
plateau are of great value, immense ranges of magnetic iron traverse the country, and there
are indications of more valuable minerals in a few localities. Of its agricultural importance
too much cannot be said. The soil is rich and strong, peculiarly adapted to the grazing of
cattle. The climate is that of the hill country of New England.'

The reader will see from this extract of what the book treats. The volume is pleasantly and
simply written, imparts considerable information with respect to the region which it describes,
is redolent of spicy forest breath, and brings before us Indian, deer, and beaver. 1864.

'These Letters were written amid camp scenes and on the march,' says our author, 'under circumstances
unfavorable to literary composition, and were intended for private perusal alone. Portions
of them appeared in the Providence Journal, and were received with a favor alike unexpected
and gratifying. Numerous requests having been made that they should be gathered up as a Rhode
Island contribution to the history of the War of the Rebellion, the author, with unaffected
distrust of himself, has yielded to the judgment of others. While the aim has been to show
the honorable position of the State in an unhappy war, it has also been the design to present
a comprehensive view of the consecutive campaigns of the Army of the Potomac, with the fortunes
of which several of the Rhode Island regiments and most of the batteries have, for longer or
shorter periods, been identified.'

It is a noble record for Rhode Island, and a valuable contribution to the history of the war.
It deals with facts, not polities or prejudices. We think every loyal State should prepare
such a volume. A simple and reliable statement of what she has herself done, a sketch of her
heroes of all ranks and parties, of her batteries, regiments, and companies, of her commandants
and the battles in which her troops bore part, should be therein contained. This would lead
to noble emulation among the States struggling for a common cause, and would be of great value
both to State and general history. We look upon this book as a beginning in the right way.
Such national records of nobly borne suffering and deeds of glory would be truly Books of Honor.

     ROBINSON'S MATHEMATICAL SERIES: Arithmetical Examples; or, Test
     Exercises for the Use of Advanced Classes. New York: Ivison,
     Phinney, Blakeman & Co., 48 & 50 Walker street. Chicago: S.C.
     Griggs & Co., 39 & 41 Lake street. 1864.

This book was issued to meet the demand in advanced schools for a larger number of carefully
prepared and practical examples for review and drill exercises than are furnished from ordinary
text books, and may be used in connection with any other books on this subject. 'The examples
are designed to test the pupil's judgment; to bring into use his knowledge of the theory and
applications of numbers; to cultivate habits of patient investigation and self-reliance; to
test the truth and accuracy of his own processes by proof--the only test he will have to depend
on in the real business transactions of afterlife; in a word, to make him independent of all
text books, of written rules and analyses.'

     A LATIN GRAMMAR FOR SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES. By ALBERT HARKNESS, Ph.
     D., Professor in Brown University, Author of 'A First Latin Book,'
     'A Second Latin Book,' 'A First Greek Book,' etc. New York: D.
     Appleton & Co., 443 & 445 Broadway.

Prof. Harkness's Grammar will be welcomed both by teacher and student. Our author is a man
of great experience in the subjects of which he treats, and we doubt not he has supplied a
general want in the work before us, and furnished a true grammar of the Latin tongue, worthy
of adoption in all our educational institutions.

     RITA: An Autobiography. By HAMILTON AIDE, Author of 'Confidences,'
     'Carr of Carrlyon,' 'Mr. and Mrs. Faulconbridge,' etc. Boston:
     Published by T.O.P. Burnham. New York: Oliver S. Felt.

This novel is the autobiography of a young English girl, thrown by her father, a man of high
birth, but worthless character, into the vicious influences of corrupt English and French society.
The story is one of a constant struggle between these base examples on the one hand, and a
strong sense of right and justice on the other. The plot is original and quite elaborate, and
the interest well sustained. The character of the unprincipled, heartless, gambling father
is well drawn, as well as that of the weak but self-sacrificing mother. Some of the scenes
evince considerable power.

EDITOR'S TABLE

Readers of THE CONTINENTAL, your servant and faithful caterer has been a sad idler and vagrant
for the last month, thinking more of his own pleasures than of your needs and requirements.
Forgive him, he is again a working bee and seeking honey for your hives. Have patience, irate
correspondents; we have absconded with no manuscripts, and are again at our desk to give bland
answers to curt missives.

We have been among the Adirondacks; congratulate us right heartily thereon! We have traversed
pathless primeval forests of larches, balsams, white pines, and sugar maples; we have floated
upon lakes lovely enough to have mirrored Paradise; we have clambered down waterfalls whose
broken drops turned into diamonds as they fell; have scaled mountains and seen earth in its
glory, and looked clear up into the infinite blue of the eye of God.

We have seen the gleaming trout, changeful as a prisoned rainbow, lured from his cool stream;
and the poor deer chased from his forest home by savage dogs and cruel men, driven into crystal
lakes, lassoed there with ropes, throats cut with dull knives, and backs broken with flying
balls. Immortal Shakspeare! had thy lines no power to awaken pity for frightened fawn and flying
doe?

We have sat by the side of fair fragile country girls, and heard the experiences of the stout
pioneers of civilization. We have tried to keep step with city maidens, shorn of ridiculous
hoops and trailing trains. We nave known them trip up the great sides of Tahawus, press through
the trunked and bouldered horrors of Indian Pass, float over Lake Placid, and scale the long
steep slide up the crest of White Face. Lovely as dreams and light as clouds, no toil stayed
them, no danger appalled; panther, wolf, and bear stories were told in vain by lazy brothers
and reluctant lovers; on they went in their restless search for beauty, their Turkish dress
and scarlet tunics gleaming through the trees, to the delight of the old mountain guides, who
chuckled over their Camilla-like exploits, and laughed, as they plucked the fragrant boughs
for their spicy couch, over the ignorance and awkwardness of their lazy city beaux. These fair
Dians shoot no deer, nor lure the springing trout. We blessed them as they went their thymy way.

We have sat in the hut of the farmer, the skiff of the oarsman, the parlor of the host of the
inn; tried wagons, stages, and buck-board conveyances; we have disputed no bill, been subjected
to no extortion, and, save the death of the 'hairy fools,' known no sorrow. We have sat by
the grave of old John Brown, seen the glorious view from his simple home, heard his strange
generosity extolled by his political enemies, and think we understand better than of old the
sublime madness of his fanaticism. We have returned to our labor with a new love of country,
a deeper sense of responsibility, of the worth of our institutions, and of the glory yet to
be in 'Our Great America.' What a land to live and die for! Every drop of martyr blood poured
upon it but makes it dearer to the heart.

PEERLESS COLUMBIA.

A National Song.

            God of our Fathers,
              Smile on our land!
            Lo, the storm gathers--
              Stretch forth Thy hand!

  Chorus.--Shield us and guard us from mountain to sea!
            Make the homes happy where manhood is free!

            Brave is our nation,
              Hopeful and young;
            High is her station
              Countries among.

  Chorus.--Holy our banner! from mountain to sea
            Floating in splendor o'er homes ever free.

            Proud is our story,
              Written in light;
            Stars tell its glory,
              Victory, might.

  Chorus.--Peerless Columbia! from mountain to sea
            Throbs every pulse through the heart of the free.

            Up with our banner!
              Hope in each fold--
            Stout hearts will man her,
              Millions untold.

  Chorus.--Millions now greet her from mountain to sea,
            Hope of the toil-worn! blest Flag of the free!

       *       *       *       *       *

The following thoughts on some of the uses subserved by Art, are from the pen of the Rev. J.
Byington Smith. There is so much truth in their suggestions, that we heartily commend them
to our readers.

ART AS A MEANS OF HOME-CULTURE.

BY J. BYINGTON SMITH.

Art is closely allied to nature in giving impress to character. The scenery by which a people
is surrounded, will modify and almost control its mode of being. The soft, rich landscapes
of Italy enervate, while the rough mountainous country of the North imparts force and vigor.
Mountains and seas are nature's healthful stimulants. Man grows in their vastness and is energized
in their strength. Whatever may be the scenery of a people, it will mirror itself in the mind,
and stamp its impress upon character.

Art reproduces nature, arranging its illimitable stores in closer unity, idealizing its charms,
and bringing into nearer view its symmetry and beauty. Bearing its lessons from afar, it colors
the glowing canvas and chisels the stone to awaken the impressions it designs to make on the
human soul. Thus art, like nature, becomes a means of culture. When the Lombards wished to
give hardihood and system to the enervated body and enfeebled mind of the people, they covered
their churches with the sculptured representation of vigorous bodily exercises, such as war
and hunting. In the great church of St. Mark, at Venice, people were taught the history of
the Scriptures by means of imagery; a picture on the walls being more easily read than a chapter.
Such walls were styled the poor man's Bible.

A picture reveals at a single glance that which we would be otherwise forced to glean by a
slow process from the scattered material furnished by the printed page; hence the delight taken
in illustrations, the importance of pictorial instruction for the young, and the almost universal
demand for the illustrated publications of the day.

The teaching of art through painting, sculpture, and engraving, finds its way into our homes,
and while lessons may be duly read from books and then laid aside, the lessons in the niche
or on the wall repeat themselves hour by hour, and day by day, looking even into the pure eyes
of infancy, and aiding in the formation of the character of every child subjected to their
ceaseless influence. Their power is none the less because they never break the home-silence;
they mould the young life and stamp their impress upon it. How important then that all such
objects should be chosen, not only as treasures of artistic beauty, but for their power to
elevate and ennoble character.

How often will you find in the room of the scholar, the studio of the artist, the picture or
bust of some old master in art or letters, as if the occupant were conscious of the incentive
such presence offered to his own efforts--the guardian genius of the spot.

In the study of one of the old divines might have been seen a painted eye, gazing forever down
upon him, to render him sensible of the presence of the All-Seeing--to stamp the 'Thou God
seest me' upon the very tablets of his heart.

A child is not so readily tempted into sin when surrounded by pure and beautiful imagery, or
when gentle loving eyes are looking down upon him. On the other hand, the walls of the degraded
are lined with amorous and obscene images, that vicious habits and debased tastes may find
their suitable incentives.

A window shade bearing the design of a little girl issuing, basket in hand, from the door of
a humble cottage, to relieve the wants of a poor blind beggar, will certainly take its place
among the early developments of the children growing up under its influence, and in their simple
charity they may be found, basket in hand, looking out for real or fancied beggars. Such lessons
are never lost. In a parlor which I often frequent is a picture of a Sabbath scene: an aged
grand-sire is seated by a table on which lies an open Bible, a bright-eyed boy is opposite,
his father and mother on either side, a little shy girl is on the knee of the old man, all
are listening reverently to the holy Word of God, books and a vase of gay flowers are on the
table, green boughs fill the great old-fashioned fireplace. The whole picture wears an air
of serenity and calm happiness, and is an impressive plea that we 'remember and keep holy the
Sabbath day'--and we verily believe that such a picture will do more to influence our children
to love the Sabbath, than any amount of parental restraint or lectures on moral obligation.

There is another picture in the same quiet room: 'The Mother's Dream.' She is worn with watching,
and lies dreaming beside the couch of the child. Rays of light open a bright pathway into the
skies, while an angel is bearing the spirit child along it up to heaven. We think such a picture
is worth more to familiarize childhood with death and resurrection, and will leave a sweeter
and more lasting impression upon the young soul, than the most learned dissertation or simplest
explanation.

Landscape painting exerts a mellowing influence, and leads to the observation and love of nature,
while historical pictures stimulate research, and nerve the mind to deeds of heroism and virtue.

The influence of pictures in forming character and shaping the course of life is illustrated
with peculiar power in the history of the sons of a quiet family in the interior, who all insisted
upon going to sea. The parents were grieved that none of their boys would remain at home to
care for the homestead, and be the comfort of their declining years. They expressed their disappointment
to a friend then on a visit to them, and wondered what could have induced the boys, one after
the other, to embrace a life so full of storm and danger. Directly over the open fireplace
hung a picture of a vessel with fluttering, snowy sails, tossing and rocking amid the bright,
green, yeasty waves. The friend saw it, read the mystery, and quietly inquired how long it
had been there. 'Since we commenced housekeeping,' was the unconscious reply. Not wishing to
wound them, he was silent, and concealed his thoughts in his own breast, but the solution of
the choice of life in the absent ones was clear enough to him: that picture had sent them off,
one after another, to sea.

How careful we should then be in surrounding youth and childhood with pure, elevating objects
of art, as means of constant home-culture! We know we shall be told, 'This is all very good,
but we cannot afford it.' Let us reason together. Can you not deduct something from your elaborate
furniture, your expensive dress, and devote it to models, lithographs, or paintings? Subtract
but the half from these luxuries and devote the sum to designs of art, and you will contribute
doubly to the attractiveness and pleasantness of your home. Where we cannot hope to possess
the original masterpiece, we may have photographic or lithographic copies, which are within
the compass of very humble means. You will freely toss away five dollars in useless embroidery
or surplus furniture, and it would buy you a lithograph of Raphael's immortal picture, giving
the results of a whole age of artistic culture, or a photograph of Cheney's Madonna and Child,
bearing the very spirit of the original, or a plaster cast of noble statuary, the original
of which could not be obtained for any namable sum--and yet you say you cannot afford works of art!

There is surely nothing you can afford better than to make your home attractive, and to introduce
therein every available means of mental and moral culture. If you cannot afford to make home
lovely, others will succeed in making dangerous places attractive to your children. There are
spots enough kept light and picturesque, perilously fascinating to those whose homes boast
no attractions. It will likely cost you far more in money, more surely in heart-anguish and
sorrow, to have your children entertained in these places full of snares, where corrupt art
lavishes her designs with unsparing hand, to vitiate the young imagination and debase the mind,
than to exalt her in her chaste and ennobling power in the sanctuary of your homes, as one
of the means of home-culture, stimulating to virtue and stamping the character with genuine worth.