PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI

VOL. 102

April 23, 1892

TOWN THOUGHTS FROM THE COUNTRY.

(WITH THE USUAL APOLOGIES.)

  Oh, to be in London now that April's there,
  And whoever walks in London sees, some morning, in the Square,
  That the upper thousands have come to Town,
  To the plane-trees droll in their new bark gown,
  While the sparrows chirp, and the cats miaow
  In London--now!
  And after April, when May follows
  And the black-coats come and go like swallows!
  Mark, where yon fairy blossom in the Row
  Leans to the rails, and canters on in clover,
  Blushing and drooping, with her head bent low!
  That's the wise child: she makes him ask twice over,
  Lest he should think she views with too much rapture
  Her first fine wealthy capture!
  But,--though her path looks smooth, and though, alack,
  All will he gay, till Time has painted black
  The Marigold, her Mother's chosen flower,--
  Far brighter is my Heartsease, Love's own dower.

       *       *       *       *       *

A WANT.--"There is only one thing," a visitor writes to us, "that I missed at Venice, S.W.
I've never been to the real place, which is the Bride, or Pride, of the Sea, I forget which,
but, as I was saying, there's only one thing I miss, and that is the heather. Who has not heard
of 'the moor of Venice'? And I daresay good shooting there too, with black game and such like.
I only saw pigeons flying, who some one informed me are the pigeons of SAM MARK. Next time
I go, I shall inquire at the Restaurant for fresh Pigeon Pie. However, if Mr. KIRALFY will
take a hint, he will, in August provide a moor. It will add to the gaiety of the show. 'The
moor the merrier,' eh?"

       *       *       *       *       *

NEO-DRAMATIC NURSERY RHYME.

  MRS. GRUNDY, good woman, scarce knew what to think
  About the relation 'twixt Drama and Drink.
  Well, give Hall--and Theatre--good wholesome diet,
  And all who attend will be sober and quiet!

       *       *       *       *       *

SPRING'S DELIGHTS IN LONDON.--"VIA MALODORA"--clearly a lady, "DORA" for short--wrote to the
Times complaining that the result of the splendid weather for the first ten days of the month
was the reproduction of "summer effluvium rank and offensive" in Piccadilly. Poor Piccadilly!
Oh, its "offence is rank," and Miss DORA might add, quoting to her father from another scene
in Hamlet, "And smells so. Pa'!" West-Enders, in a dry summer, must he prepared to have "a
high old time of it."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MY SOAP.

  I'm the maker of a Soap, which I confidently hope
  In the advertising tournament will win,
  And remain the fit survival, having vanquished every rival
  Which is very detrimental to the skin.

  I will now proceed to show, what the public ought to know,
  Unless they would be blindly taken in.
  How in every soap but mine certain qualities combine
  To make it detrimental to the skin.

  But surely at this date it is needless I should state
  That the cheaper soaps are barely worth a pin,
  For they all contain a mixture, either free or as a fixture,
  Which is very detrimental to the skin.

  And every cake you buy is so charged with alkali,
  To soda more than soap it is akin;
  It is really dear at last, for it wastes away so fast.
  And is very detrimental to the skin.

  The public I must warn of the colours that adorn
  The soaps ambitious foreigners bring in;
  They are often very pretty, but to use them is a pity,
  For they're very detrimental to the skin.

  There are soaps which you can see through. I ask, What can it be
          through?
  Is it resin, or some other form of sin?
  There are soaps which smell too strong, and of course that must be
          wrong,
  And extremely detrimental to the skin.

  And too much fat's injurious, and so are soaps sulphureous,
  Though they say they keep the hair from growing thin;
  They may keep a person's hair on, like the precious oil of AARON,
  And yet be detrimental to his skin.

  In short, the only soap which is fit for Prince or Pope
  (I have sent some to the KAISER at Berlin)
  Is the article I sell you. Don't believe the firms who tell you
  It is very detrimental to the skin.

       *       *       *       *       *

A LIQUOR QUESTION.--Why does a toper--especially when "before the beak"--always say that he
was "in drink," when he evidently means that the drink was in him? The only soaker on record
who could rightly be said to be "in drink" was,

  "Maudlin Clarence in his Malmsey butt."

He was "in liquor" with a vengeance. But less lucky wine-bibbers need not be illogical as well
as inebriate.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. GOSCHEN'S BUDGET.--"From a fiscal point of view, the Tobacco receipts are extremely good."
So unlike JOKIM. Of course, as he never loses a chance of a jeu de mot, what he must have said
was, that "the Tobacco 'returns' are extremely good." "A birthday Budget,--many happy 'returns,'"
he observed jocosely to PRINCE ARTHUR, "quite japing times!" And off he went for his holiday;
and, weather permitting, as he reclines in his funny among the weeds, he will gently murmur,
"Dulce est desipere in smoko."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEWEST NARCISSUS;

OR, THE HERO OF OUR DAYS.

    ["--The curious tendency towards imitation which is observed
    whenever some specially sensational crime is brought into the
    light of publicity."--Morning Post.']

  NARCISSUS? He, that foul ill-favoured brute,
  A fevered age's most repulsive fruit,
  The murderous coxcomb, the assassin sleek?
  Stranger comparison could fancy seek?

  Truly 'tis not the self-admiring boy
  Nymph Echo longed so vainly to enjoy;
  Yet the old classic fable hath a phase
  Which seems to fit the opprobrium of our days.
  Criminal-worship seems our latest cult,
  And this strange figure is its last result.
  Self-conscious, self-admiring, Crime parades
  Its loathly features, not in slumdom's shades,
  Or in Alsatian sanctuaries vile.
  No; peacock-posing and complacent smile
  Pervade the common air, and take the town.
  The glory of a scandalous renown
  Lures the vain villain more than wrath or gain,
  And cancels all the shame that should restrain:
  Makes murder half-heroic in his sight,
  And gilds the gallows with factitious light.

  And whose the fault? Sensation it is thine!
  The garrulous paragraph, the graphic line,
  Poster and portrait, telegram and tale,
  Make shopboy eager and domestics pale.
  Over the morbid details workmen pore,
  Toil's favourite pabulum and chosen lore,
  Penny-a-liners pile the horrors up,
  On which the cockney gobe-mouche loves to sup,
  And paragraph and picture feed the clown
  With the foul garbage that has gorged the town.
  "Vice is a monster of such hideous mien
  As to be hated needs but to be seen."
  So sang the waspish satirist long ago.
  Now Vice is sketched and Crime is made a show.
  A hundred eager scribes are at their heel
  To tell the public how they look and feel,
  How eat and drink, how sleep and smoke and play.
  Murder's itinerary for a day,
  Set forth in graphic phrase by skilful pens,
  With pictures of its face, its favourite dens,
  Its knife or bludgeon, pistol, paramour,
  Will swell the swift editions hour by hour,
  More than high news of war or of debate,
  The death of heroes or the throes of state.
  From club-room to street-corner runs the cry
  After the newest fact, or latest lie:
  The hurrying throng unfolded broad-sheets grasp,
  And read with goggled eyes and lips a-gasp,
  Blood! Blood! More Blood! It makes hot lips go pale,
  But gives the sweetest zest to the unholy tale.

