No. 183.] SATURDAY, APRIL 30. Cokayne, Dr. Samuel Kettilby--"Haulf Naked"     431

  REPLIES:--

  The Legend of Lamech: Hebrew Etymology, by H. Walter,
  T. J. Buckton, and Joseph Rix                           432

  Lord Coke's Charge to the Jury                          433

  White Roses, by James Crossley                          434

  Burial of Unclaimed Corpse                              435

  Psalmanazar, by James Crossley                          435

  Grafts and the Parent Tree                              436

  PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE:--Glass Baths--Securing
  Calotype Negatives                                      437

  REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--Wood of the Cross--Bishops'
  Lawn Sleeves--Inscriptions in Books--Lines
  quoted by Charles Lamb--Parochial Libraries--Huet's
  Navigations of Solomon--Derby Municipal
  Seal--Annueller--Rev. Richard Midgley, Vicar of
  Rochdale--Nose of Wax--Canongate Marriages--Sculptured
  Emaciated Figures--Do the Sun's Rays
  put out the Fire?--Spontaneous Combustion--Ecclesia
  Anglicana--Wyle Cop--Chaucer--Campvere, Privileges
  of--Sir Gilbert Gerard--Mistletoe--Wild
  Plants and their Names--Coninger or Coningry            437

  MISCELLANEOUS:--

  Notes on Books, &c.                                     441

  Books and Odd Volumes wanted                            442

  Notices to Correspondents                               442

  Advertisements                                          442

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

PROCLAMATION OF HENRY VIII. AGAINST THE POSSESSION OF RELIGIOUS BOOKS.

The progress of the Reformation in England must have been greatly affected by the extent to
which the art of printing was brought to bear upon the popular mind. Before the charms of Anne
Boleyn could have had much effect, or "doubts" had troubled the royal conscience, Wolsey had
been compelled to forbid the introduction or printing of books and tracts calculated to increase
the unsettled condition of the faith.

The following proclamation, now for the first time printed, may have originated in the ineffectual
result of the cardinal's directions. The readers of Strype and Fox will see that the threats
which both contain were no idle ones, and that men were indeed "corrected and punisshed for
theyr contempte and disobedience, to the terrible example of other lyke trangressours."

The list of books prohibited by the order of 1526 contains all those mentioned by name in the
present proclamation, except the Summary of Scripture; and it will be seen that such full,
general terms are used that no obnoxious production could escape, if brought to light. The
Revelation of Antichrist was written by Luther.

Strype does not seem to have been aware of the existence of this particular proclamation, which
was issued in the year 1530. Under the year 1534 (Ecclesiastical Memorials, &c., Oxford, 1822,
vol. i. part i. p. 253.), he thus refers to what he thought to be the first royal proclamation
upon the subject:

    "Much light was let in among the common people by the New Testament and
    other good books in English, which, for the most part being printed
    beyond sea, were by stealth brought into England, and dispersed here by
    well-disposed men. For the preventing the importation and using of
    these books, the king this year issued out a strict proclamation, by
    the petition of the clergy now met in Convocation, in the month of
    December.

    "Nor was this the first time such books were prohibited to be brought
    in: for us small quantities of them were secretly conveyed into these
    parts from time to time, for the discovering, in that dark age, the
    {422} gross papal innovations, as well in the doctrine of the Sacrament
    as in image-worship, addressing to saints, purgatory, pilgrimages, and
    the like.

    "A previous order (in the year 1526) was issued by the Bishop of
    London, by the instigation of Cardinal Wolsey, calling in all English
    translations of the Scripture. And other books of this nature were then
    forbid."

This proclamation, therefore, well merits preservation in your pages, as one of the hitherto
unknown "evidences" of the terrible and trying times to which it refers.

It shows, too, the value of the class of papers upon which the Society of Antiquaries are bestowing
so much attention. The original was found among a miscellaneous collection in the Chapter House,
Westminster.

JOSEPH BURTT.

    A PROCLAMATION.

    ... nse Junii Anno regni metuendissimi Domini nostri Regis Henrici
    Octavi xxij.

    The Kinge, oure most dradde soveraigne lorde, studienge and providynge
    dayly for the weale, benefite, and honour of this his most [n]oble
    realme, well and evidently perceiveth, that partly through the
    malicious suggestion of our gostly enemy, partly by the yvell and
    perverse inclination and sedicious disposition of sundry persons,
    divers heresies and erronio[us] [o]pinions have ben late sowen and
    spredde amonge his subjectes of this his said realme, by blasphemous
    and pestiferous englishe bokes, printed in other regions and sent into
    this realme, to the entent as well to perverte and withdrawe the people
    from the catholike and true fayth of Christe, as also to stirre and
    incense them to sedition and disobedience agaynst their princes,
    soveraignes, and heedes, as also to cause them to contempne and neglect
    all good lawes, customes, and vertuous maners, to the final subversion
    and desolacion of this noble realme, if they myght have prevayled
    (which God forbyd) in theyr most cursed [p]ersuasions and malicious
    purposes. Where upon the kynges hignes (sic), by his incomparable
    wysedome, forseinge and most prudently considerynge, hath invited and
    called to hym the primates of this his gracis realme, and also a
    sufficient nombre of discrete, vertuous, and well-lerned personages in
    divinite, as well of either of the universites, Oxforde and Cambrige,
    as also hath chosen and taken out of other parties of his realme;
    gyvinge unto them libertie to speke and declare playnly their advises,
    judgmentes, and determinations, concernynge as well the approbation or
    rejectynge of suche bokes as be in any parte suspected, as also the
    admission and divulgation of the Olde and Newe Testament translated
    into englishe. The kingis said
    highnes therfore straitly chargeth and commandeth, all and every his
    subjectes, of what astate or condition so ever he or they be, as they
    wyll avoyde his high indignacion and most grevous displeasure, that
    they from hensforth do not bye, receyve, or have, any of the bokes
    before named, or any other boke, beinge in the englisshe tonge, and
    printed beyonde the see, of what matter so ever it be, or any copie
    written, drawen out of the same, or the same bokes in the frenche or
    duche tonge. And to the entent that his highnes wylbe asserteyned, what
    nombre of the said erronious bokes shal be founde from tyme to tyme
    within this his realme, his highnes therfore chargeth and commaundeth,
    that all and every person or persones, whiche hath or herafter shall
    have, any boke or bokes in the englisshe tonge, printed beyonde the
    see, as is afore written, or any of the sayde erronious bokes in the
    frenche or duche tonge: that he or they, within fyftene dayes nexte
    after the publisshynge of this present proclamation, do actually
    delyver or sende the same bokes and every of them to the bisshop of the
    diocese, wherin he or they dwelleth, or to his commissary, or els
    before good testimonie, to theyr curate or parisshe preest, to be
    presented by the same curate or parisshe preest to the sayd bisshop or
    his commissary. And so doynge, his highnes frely pardoneth and
    acquiteth them, and every of them, of all penalties, forfaitures, and
    paynes, wherin they have incurred or fallen, by reason of any statute,
    acte, ordinaunce, or proclamation before this tyme made, concernynge
    any offence or transgression by than commytted or done, by or for the
    kepynge or holdynge of the sayde bokes.

    Forseen and provided alwayes, that they from hensforth truely do
    observe, kepe, and obey this {423} his present gracis proclamation and
    commaundement. Also his highnes commaundeth all mayres, sheriffes,
    bailliffes, constables, bursholders, and other officers and ministers
    within this his realme, that if they shall happen by any meanes or
    wayes to knowe that any person or persons do herafter bye, receyve,
    have, or deteyne any of the sayde erronious bokes, printed or written
    anywhere, or any other bokes in englisshe tonge printed beyonde the
    see, or the saide erronious bokes printed or written in the frenche or
    duche tonge, contrarie to this present proclamation, that they beinge
    therof well assured, do immediatly attache the said person or persons,
    and brynge hym or them to the kynges highnes and his most honorable
    counsayle; where they shalbe corrected and punisshed for theyr
    contempte and disobedience, to the terrible example of other lyke
    transgressours.

    Moreover his highnes commaundeth, that no maner of person or persons
    take upon hym or them to printe any boke or bokes in englisshe tonge,
    concernynge holy scripture, not before this tyme printed within this
    his realme, untyll suche tyme as the same boke or bokes be examyned and
    approved by the ordinary of the diocese where the said bokes shalbe
    printed: And that the printer therof, upon every of the sayde bokes
    beinge so examyned, do sette the name of the examynour or examynours,
    with also his owne name, upon the saide bokes, as he will answere to
    the kynges highnes at his uttermost peryll.

    And farthermore, for as moche as it is come to the herynge of our sayde
    soveraigne lorde the kynge, that reporte is made by dyvers and many of
    his subjectes, that it were to all men not onely expedyent, but also
    necessarye, to have in the englisshe tonge bothe the newe testament and
    the olde, and that his highnes, his noble men, and prelates, were
    bounden to suffre them so to have it: His highnes hath therfore
    semblably there upon consulted with the sayde primates ... discrete,
    and well lerned personages, in divinite forsayde, and by them all it is
    thought, that it is not necessary th ... to be in the englisshe tonge,
    and in the handes of the commen people; but that the distrib ... the
    said scripture ... denyenge therof dependeth onely upon the discretion
    of the superiours, as ... to the malignite of this present tyme, with
    the inclination of the people to erroni ... the olde in to the vulgare
    tonge of englysshe, shulde rather be the occasyon of ... people, than
    any benfyte or commodite to warde the weale of their soules. And ... e
    have the holy scripture expouned to them by preachers in theyr sermons,
    ac ... this tyme, All be it if it shall here after appere to the kynges
    highnes, that his sa ... rse, erronious, and sedicious opinyons, with
    the newe testment and the olde, corrup ... ge in printe: And that the
    same bokes and all other bokes of heresye, as well ... termynate and
    exiled out of this realme of Englande for ever: his highnes e ... great
    lerned and catholyke persones, translated in to the englisshe tonge, if
    it sha[ll] than seme t ... conv ... his highnes at this tyme, by the
    hoole advise and full determination of all the said primates, and ...
    discrete and subs ... lerned personages of both universites, and other
    before expressed, and by the assent of his nobles and others of his
    moste hon[orab]le Counsayle, wylleth and straytly commaundeth, that all
    and every person and persones, of what astate, degre, or condition so
    ever he or they be, whiche hath the newe testament or the olde
    translated in to englysshe, or any other boke of holy scripture so
    translated, beynge in printe, or copied out of the bokes nowe beinge in
    printe, that he or they do immediatly brynge the same boke or bokes, or
    cause the same to be broughte to the bysshop of the dyocese where he
    dwelleth, or to the handes of other the sayde persones, at the daye
    afore limytted, in fourme afore expressed and mencioned, as he wyll
    avoyde the kynges high indignation and displeasure. And that no person
    or persons from hensforth do bye, receyve, kepe, or have the newe
    testament or the olde in the englisshe tonge, or in the frenche or
    duche tonge, excepte suche persones as be appoynted by the kinges
    highnes and the bisshops of this his realme, for the correction or
    amending of the said translation, as they will answere to the kynges
    highnes at theyr uttermost perils, and wyll avoyde suche punisshement
    as they, doynge contrary to the purport of this proclamation shall
    suffre, to the dredefull example of all other lyke offenders.

    And his highnes further commaundeth, that all suche statutes, actes and
    ordinances, as before this tyme have been made and enacted, as well in
    y^e tyme of his moste gracious reigne, as also in the tyme of his noble
    progenitours, concernying heresies, and havynge and deteynynge
    erronyous bokes, contrary and agynst the faythe catholyke, shall
    immediatly be put in effectuall and due execution over and besyde this
    present proclamation.

    And god save the kynge.

       *       *       *       *       *

    THO. BERTHELETUS, Regius impressor excusit.
    Cum privilegio.

       *       *       *       *       *

LATIN--LATINER.

It is interesting to note the great variety of significations in which the word Latin has been
used. Sometimes it means Italian, sometimes Spanish, sometimes the Romance language. Again,
it has been used as synonymous with language, learning, discourse; or to express that a matter
is plain and intelligible. {424}

Muratori, in describing the "Cangiamento dell' Lingua Latina nella volgare Italiana," observes,--

    "Così a poco a poco il volgo di questa bella Provincia [Italia], oltre
    adottare moltissimi vocaboli forestieri, andò ancora alterando i
    proprj, cioè i Latini, cambiando le terminazioni delle parole,
    accorciandole, allungandole, e corrompendole. In somma se ne formò un
    nuovo Linguaggio, che Volgare si appellava, perchè usato dal Volgo
    d'Italia."--Muratori, Della Perfetta Poesia Italiana, tomo i. p. 6.,
    ed. Venez., 1730.

So Boccaccio, giving an account of the intention of his poem, the "Teseide," writes,--

 "Ma tu, o libro, primo al lor cantare
  Di Marte fai gli affanni sostenuti,
  Nel vulgar latino mai non veduti,"

where, as in the letter to La Fiammetta, prefixed to this poem, vulgar latino is evidently
Italian ("Trovata una antichissima storia ... in latino volgare ... ho ridotta"), and not the
Provençal tongue, as Mr. Craik suggests in his Literature and Learning in England, vol. ii.
p. 48., where he supposes Boccaccio to have translated from, and not, as is clear, into, latino
volgare.

Dante repeatedly uses Latino for Italiano, as in Purgatorio, xi. 58.:

 "Io fui Latino, e nato d'un gran Tosco."

And in Inf. xxii. 65.:

 "Conosci tu alcun, che sia Latino."

In Paradiso, iii. 63.,

 "Sì che il raffigurar m' è più latino,"

latino evidently means easy, clear, plain. "Forse contrario di barbaro, strano," says Volpi,
"noi Lombardi in questo significato diciamo ladin." The "discreto latino" of Thomas Aquinas,
elsewhere in Paradiso (xii. 144.), must mean "sage discourse." Chaucer, when he invokes the
muse, in the proeme to the second book of "Troilus and Creseide," only asks her for rhyme,
because, saith he,--

 "Of no sentement I this endite,
  But out of Latine in my tongue it write."

Where "Latine," of course, means Boccaccio's Filostrato, from which Chaucer's poem is taken.

In the "Poema del Cid," latinado seems to mean person conversant with the Spanish or Romance
language of the period:

 "Quando esta falsedad dicien los de Carrion,
  Un Moro Latinado bien gelo entendio."--v. 2675.

Mr. Ticknor remarks, that when the Christian conquests were pushed on towards the south of
Spain, the Moors, who remained inclosed in the Christian population, and spoke or assumed its
language, were originally called Moros Latinados; and refers to the Cronica General, where,
respecting Alfaraxi, a Moor, afterwards converted, and a counsellor of the Cid, it is said
he was "de tan buen entendimento, e era tan ladino que semejava Christiano."--Ticknor, Hist.
Span. Lit., iii. 347.

Cervantes (Don Q. Parte I. cap. xli.) uses ladino to mean Spanish:

    "Servianos de interprete a las mas destas palabras y razones el padre
    de Zoraida como mas ladino."

Latin, in fact, was so much the language as to become almost synonymous with a language. So
a Latiner was an interpreter, as it is very well expressed in Selden's Table Talk, art. "Language":

    "Latimer is the corruption of Latiner: it signifies he that
    interprets Latin; and though he interpreted French, Spanish, or
    Italian, he was the king's Latiner, that is, the king's interpreter."

This use of the word is well illustrated in the following extracts:

 "A Knight ther language lerid in youth;
  Breg hight that Knight, born Bretoun,
  That lerid the language of Sessoun.
  This Breg was the Latimer,
  What scho said told Vortager."--Robert de Brunne's Metrical Chronicle.

 "Par soen demein latinier
      .    .    .    .
  Icil Morice iert latinier
  Al rei Dermot, ke mult l'out cher."--Norman-French Chronicle of Conquest
      of Ireland, edited by F. Michel (as quoted in Wright's Essays,
      vol. ii. p. 215.).

I here conclude, as I must not seek to monopolise space required for more valuable contributions.

J. M. B.

Tunbridge Wells.

       *       *       *       *       *

INEDITED POEMS.

I send you two poems which I have found in a little rough scrap-book of a literary character
of last century, and which, not having myself met with in print, I trust you will consider
worth preserving in your pages. The one styled "A Scotch Poem on the King and the Queen of
the Fairies," has a vein of playful satire running through it, but I do not detect any word
which justifies the ascription of its paternity to Scotland. Perhaps some of your readers would
oblige me by indicating the source from which this poem has been taken, if it is already in print.

A SCOTCH POEM ON THE KING AND THE QUEEN OF THE FAIRIES.

  Upon a time the Fairy Elves,
  Being first array'd themselves,
  Thought it meet to clothe their King
  In robes most fit for revelling.

  He had a cobweb shirt more thin
  Than ever spider since could spin,
  Bleach'd in the whiteness of the snow,
  When that the northern winds do blow.

  {425}
  A rich waistcoat they did him bring,
  Made of the troutfly's golden wing,
  Dy'd crimson in a maiden's blush,
  And lin'd in humming-bees' soft plush.

  His hat was all of lady's love,
  So passing light, that it would move
  If any gnat or humming fly
  But beat the air in passing by.

  About it went a wreath of pearl,
  Dropt from the eyes of some poor girl,
  Pinch'd because she had forgot
  To leave clean water in the pot.

  His breeches and his cassock were
  Made of the tinsel gossamer;
  Down by its seam there went a lace
  Drawn by an urchin snail's slow pace.

  No sooner was their King attir'd
    As never prince had been,
  But, as in duty was requir'd,
    They next array their Queen.

  Of shining thread shot from the sun
    And twisted into line,
  In the light wheel of fortune spun,
    Was made her smock so fine.

  Her gown was ev'ry colour fair,
    The rainbow gave the dip;
  Perfumed from an amber air,
    Breath'd from a virgin's lip.

  Her necklace was of subtle tye
    Of glorious atoms, set
  In the pure black of beauty's eye
    As they had been in jet.

  The revels ended, she put off,
    Because her Grace was warm;
  She fann'd her with a lady's scoff,
    And so she took no harm.

Mrs. Barbauld wrote the following lines on a scroll within a kind of wreath, which hung over
the chimney, the whole parlour being decorated with branches of ivy, which were made to run
down the walls and hang down every pannel in festoons, at a country place called Palgrave:

  Surly Winter, come not here,
  Bluster in thy proper sphere;
  Howl along the naked plain;
  There exert they joyless reign.
  Triumph o'er the wither'd flow'r,
  The leafless shrub, the ruin'd bower;
  But our cottage come not near,
  Other Springs inhabit here,
  Other sunshine decks our board
  Than they niggard skies afford.
  Gloomy Winter, hence away,
  Love and fancy scorn they sway;
  Love, and joy, and friendly mirth
  Shall bless this roof, these walls, this hearth,
  The rigor of the year control,
  And thaw the winter in the soul.

WILL. HONEYCOMBE.

Liverpool.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROUND TOWERS OF THE CYCLADES.

On Friday evening, Nov. 19, 1852, a lecture was delivered before the members of the Literary
and Scientific Institute of this island, by Capt. Graves, R.N., from which I have been permitted
to take the following extract. The information contained in it, will doubtless be the more
interesting to many of the reader of "N. & Q.," when informed that the round towers of Greece
are fast disappearing; either from being pulled down for the erection of dwellings, or to be
burnt into lime, by the Greeks who dwell in their neighbourhood. What the original dimensions
of these towers may have been in ancient times, or for what purposes they were erected, are
alike unknown; but their present proportions are as follow, and drawn by the learned lecturer
from personal observation:

                                                      Feet.  In.
  "A. Andros, near the port                Height      60     0

   B. Zea overlooking Perses Bay         { Height       5     5
                                         { Diameter    26     6
                                         { Wall         2     0

   C. Thermia                            { Height      11     0
                                         { Diameter    28     5

   D. Serpho                             { Height      15     0
                                         { Diameter    27     0

   E. Beach of Port Pharos               { Height       7     0
                                         { Diameter    31     8
                                         { Wall         2     6

   F. Hillock, west side of Pharos       { Height      16     6
                                         { Diameter    42    10
                                         { Wall         3     0

   G. Village of Herampili               { Height      15     8
                                         { Diameter    38     3
                                         { Wall    4 to 2     6

   H. Valley beyond villages             { Height      11    10
                                         { Diameter    33     5
                                         { Wall         4     0

   J. Short distance west of Mount Elias { Height       6     0
                                         { Diameter    24     7
                                         { Wall         5     0

   K. Between Elias and west coast       { Height       6     6
                                         { Diameter    28     0
                                         { Wall         4     0

   L. Naxos, south-east end of the island  Height      50     0

   M. Paros, north, port Naussa.
        Of this tower only a few
        courses of the stones are
        left. It is however supposed
        to have been of
        the same dimensions as
        that of Naxos."

W. W.

Malta.

       *       *       *       *       *

{426}

SHAKSPEARE CORRESPONDENCE.

Songs and Rimes of Shakspeare.--I find in Mr. J. P. Collier's History of Dramatic Poetry (a
work replete with dramatic lore and anecdote) the following note in p. 275., vol. iii.:

    "The Mitre and the Mermaid were celebrated taverns, which the poets,
    wits, and gallants were accustomed to visit. Another
    shorter piece is called in the margin,--

             'SHAKESPEARE'S RIME.

Who was the purchaser of this precious MS.? In this age of Shakspearian research, when every
newly discovered relic is hailed with intense delight, may I inquire of some of your numerous
readers, who seem to take as much delight as myself in whatever concerns our great dramatist
and his writings, whether they can throw any light upon the subject?

    Again: "A peculiar interest," Mr. Collier says, "attaches to one of the
    pieces in John Dowland's First Book of Songs (p. 57.), on account of
    the initials of 'W. S.' being appended to it, in a manuscript of the
    time preserved in the Hamburgh City Library. It is inserted in
    England's Helicon, 4to., 1600, as from Dowland's Book of Tablature,
    without any name or initials; and looking at the character and language
    of the piece, it is at least not impossible that it was the work of our
    great dramatist, to whom it has been assigned by some continental
    critics. A copy of it was, many years ago, sent to the author by a
    German scholar of high reputation, under the conviction that the poem
    ought to be included in any future edition of the works of Shakspeare.
    It will be admitted that the lines are not unworthy of his pen; and,
    from the quality of other productions in the same musical work, we may
    perhaps speculate whether Shakspeare were not the writer of some other
    poems there inserted. If we were to take it for granted, that a sonnet
    in The Passionate Pilgrim, 1599, was by Shakspeare, because it is
    there attributed to him, we might be sure that he was a warm admirer of
    Dowland,

                 'whose heavenly touch
      Upon the lute doth ravish human sense.'

    However, it is more than likely, that the sonnet in which this passage
    is found was by Barnfield, and not by Shakspeare: it was printed by
    Barnfield in 1598, and reprinted by him in 1605, notwithstanding the
    intermediate appearance of it in The Passionate Pilgrim."

May I inquire if any new light has been thrown upon this disputed song since the publication
of Mr. Collier's Lyric Poems in 1844?

The song is addressed to Cynthia, and, as Mr. Collier says, is not unworthy of Shakspeare's
muse. As it is not of any great length, perhaps it may be thought worthy of insertion in "N. & Q."

             "TO CYNTHIA.

 "My thoughts are wing'd with hopes, my hopes with love;
    Mount, love, unto the moone in cleerest night,
  And say, as she doth in the heavens move,
    In earth so wanes and waxes my delight:
  And whisper this, but softly, in her eares,
  Hope oft doth hang the head, and trust shed teares.

 "And you, my thoughts, that some mistrust do cary,
    If for mistrust my mistresse do you blame,
  Say, though you alter, yet you do not vary,
    As she doth change, and yet remaine the same.
  Distrust doth enter hearts, but not infect,
  And love is sweetest season'd with suspect.

 "If she for this with cloudes do maske her eyes,
    And make the heavens darke with her disdaine,
  With windie sighes disperse them in the skies,
    Or with the teares dissolve them into rain.
  Thoughts, hopes, and love return to me no more,
  Till Cynthia shine as she hath done before."

J. M. G.

Worcester.

Such is the text of the first folio. MR. PAYNE COLLIER, at p. 162. of his Notes and Emendations,
informs us that the old corrector of his folio of 1632 reads volant for "violent," wound for
"move," and still-piecing for "still-peering."

Two of these substitutions are easily shown to be correct. In the Tempest, Act III. Sc. 3.,
we read:

                     "The elements,
  Of whom your swords are tempered, may as well
  Wound the loud winds, or with bemockt-at stabs
  Kill the still-closing waters."

What is still-closing but still-piecing, the silent reunion after severance? What is to wound
the loud winds but to wound the air that sings with piercing?

But as to the third substitution, I beg permission through your pages to enter a caveat. If
{427} we had no proof from the text of Shakspeare that violent is the correct reading, I fancy
that any reader's common sense would tell him that it is more an appropriate and trenchant
term than volant. "What judgment would stoop from this to this?" Volant, moreover, is not English,
but French, and as such is used in Henry V.; but happily, in this case, we have most abundant
evidence from the text of Shakspeare that he wrote violent in the above passage. In Henry VIII.,
Act I. Sc. 1., we have the passage,

                 "We may outrun,
  By violent swiftness, that which we run at,
  And lose by over-running."

In Othello, Act III. Sc. 3., we have the passage,

 "Even so my bloody thoughts, with violent pace,
  Shall ne'er look back."

These passages prove that violent is a true Shakspearian epithet for velocity. But how exquisitely
appropriate is the epithet when applied to the velocity of a ball issuing from the mouth of
a cannon: and here we have full confirmation from Romeo and Juliet, Act V. Sc. 1., where we read:

 "As violently as hasty powder fir'd
  Doth hurry from the fatal cannon's womb."

I trust that MR. COLLIER will not, in the teeth of such evidence, substitute volant for violent
in correcting the text of his forthcoming edition.

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

       *       *       *       *       *

GENERAL MONK AND THE UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE.

A document has recently come into my possession which may perhaps be deemed worth preserving
in the pages of "N. & Q." It is a letter from the University of Cambridge to General Monk,
and, from the various corrections which occur in it, it has every appearance of being the original
draft. Unfortunately it is not dated; but there can, I presume, be little doubt of its having
been written shortly before the assembling of the parliament in April, 1660, which led to the
Restoration, and in which Monk sat as member for the county of Devon. The words erased in the
original are here placed between parentheses, and those substituted are given in Italics:

        My Lord,

    As it hath pleased God to make your Excell^{cie} eminently instrumental
    for the raising up of three gasping and dying nations, into the faire
    hopes and prospect of peace and settlement, so hath He engraven you (r
    name) in characters of gratitude upon the hearts of all (true) to
    whom (cordially wish) the welfare of this church and state (are)
    is deare and pretious. (Out) From this principle it is that our
    University of Cambridge hath, with great alacrity and unanimity, made
    choyse of your Excellency with whom to deposite the(ire) managing of
    theire concernments in the succeeding Parl^t, w^{ch}, if your
    Excell^{cy} shall please to admitt into a favourable (interpretation)
    acceptance, (you will thereby) you will thereby (add) put a further
    obligation of gratitude upon us all; w^{ch} none shalbe more ready to
    expresse than he who is

      Your Excell^{cies} most humble serv^t,
                  W. D.

    [Endorsed]
    To the L^d General Monk.

Who was "W. D."? Was he the then Vice-Chancellor?

LEICESTRIENSIS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Curiosities of Railway Literature.--Has "Bradshaw" had any reviewers? If not, an example or
two from this neighbourhood, of the absurdities which reappear month after month in the time-tables,
may show the necessity of them. A Midland train proposes to leave Gloucester at 12.40 p.m.,
and reach Cheltenham at 1 p.m. The Great Western Company advertise an express train, on the
very same line, to leave two minutes later and arrive five minutes earlier. It is therefore
obvious, that if these trains were to keep their proper time, the express must run into the
slow coach in front. The Great Western Railway Company have also, in a very unassuming manner,
been advertising a feat hitherto unparalleled in the annals of railway speed,--the mail from
Cheltenham at 8.20 a.m. to leave Gloucester at 8.27; that is to say, seven miles, including
starting, slackening speed at two or three "crossings," stopping, starting again, all in seven
minutes! Let the narrow gauge beat this if it can.

H. H.

Gloucester.

Cromwell's Seal.--I am in possession of a fine seal; it is a beautiful engraving of the head
of Oliver Cromwell, and was once his property: he presented it to a favourite officer, whose
nephew, to whom it was bequeathed, gave it to the father of the lady from whom I received it
a few years ago. Thus I am in the singular position of being the fifth holder of it from the
Protector.

Y. S. M.

Dublin.

Rhymes upon Places.--Buckinghamshire:

 "Brill upon the Hill,
    Oakley in the Hole,
  Shabby little Ickford,
    Dirty Worminghall."

H. T.

Ingatestow.

Tom Track's Ghost.--The following piece of metrical romance has dwelt in my memory as long
{428} as I have been able to remember. I have never seen it in print, nor heard it, at least
for some years, from any one else; and have not been able to discover who wrote it:

 "Tom Track he came from Buenos Ayres;
  And now, thought I, for him who cares:
  But soon his coming wrought me woe;
  He misled Poll,--as you shall know.
  All in the togs that I had bought,
  With that ere Tom she did consort,
  Which gave my feelings great concern,
  And caused a row,--as you shall learn.
  So then challenge Tom I did;
  We met, shook hands, and took a quid;
  I shot poor Tom.--The worse for me;
  It brought his ghost,--as you shall see.
  Says he, 'I'm Tom Track's ghost, that's flat.'
  Says I, 'Now only think on that.'
  Says he, 'I'm come to torment you now;'
  Which was hard lines,--as you'll allow.
 'So, Master Ghost, belay your jaw;
  For if on me you claps a claw,
  My locker yonder will reveal,
  A tight rope's end, which you shall feel.'
  Then off his winding-sheet he throwed,
  And by his trousers Tom I knowed;
  He wasn't dead; but come to mess,
  So here's an end,--as you may guess."

The implicatio, the agnitio, and the peripetia are so well worked out, that Aristotle would,
I think, be compelled to admit it as an almost perfect specimen of that most ancient kind of
drama which was recited by one actor. I refer especially to C. XXII. of the Poetics, which
says, that that agnitio is most beautiful which is joined with the peripetia, of which here
we have so striking an example. These reasons embolden me to ask if it be worth preserving
in "N. & Q," and who was the author?

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

JACOB BOBART AND HIS DRAGON, ETC.

Dr. Zachary Grey, in his edition of Hudibras, vol. i. p. 125., relates the following anecdote:

    "Mr. Jacob Bobart, Botany Professor of Oxford, did, about forty years
    ago (in 1704), find a dead rat in the Physic Garden, which he made to
    resemble the common picture of dragons, by altering its head and tail,
    and thrusting in taper sharp sticks, which distended the skin on each
    side till it mimicked wings. He let it dry as hard as possible. The
    learned immediately pronounced it a dragon, and one of them sent an
    accurate description of it to Dr. Maliabechi, Librarian to the Grand
    Duke of Tuscany: several fine copies of verses were wrote upon so
    rare a subject, but at last Mr. Bobart owned the cheat: however, it was
    looked upon as a masterpiece of art, and as such deposited in the
    anatomy schools (at Oxford), where I saw it some years after."

Can any of the readers of "N. & Q." inform me where I can procure the several fine copies of
verses, or where they are to be seen, and any other particulars relating to Jacob Bobart?

On one side of a sheet of paper.

Also:

    "A Ballad on the Gyants in the Physic Garden in Oxon, who have been
    breeding Feet as long as Garagantua was Teeth."

On one side of a sheet of paper.

H. T. BOBART.

       *       *       *       *       *

BISHOP BERKELEY'S PORTRAIT.

The following letter may perhaps have some interest in itself; but I send it for insertion
in the pages of "N. & Q." in the hope of obtaining some information about the pictures which
it mentions. It is addressed on the back, "The Reverend the Provost and Fellows, Dublin College;"
and in the corner, "Pr. Favour of The Right Hon. Lord Viscount Molesworth;" and does not appear
to have ever passed through the post.

        Reverend Sir, and Gentlemen,

    My late dear Husband, the Rev. Dr. Berkeley, Prebendary of Canterbury,
    son of the late Lord Bishop of Cloyne, having most generously appointed
    me sole executrix of his will, and having bequeathed to me all his fine
    collection of pictures, &c., I trouble you with this to beg to know
    whether a very remarkably fine, universally admired portrait of Bishop
    Berkeley, in his lawn sleeves, &c., painted by that famous artist
    Vanderbank, which, together with its frame (now much broken by frequent
    removals), cost five hundred pounds: the back-ground, the frontispiece
    to his Lordship's Minute Philosopher, and the broken cisterns from
    the Prophet Jeremiah: "They have hewn them out broken cisterns." The
    late Archbishop of Canterbury was perpetually entreating Dr. Berkeley
    to present it to the Gallery of Lambeth Palace, where there is already
    a very good portrait of Bishop B.--But justice to my dear excellent
    son, then living, as Dr. B. told his Grace, precluded a possibility
    of his complying with his request.

    If this picture will be an acceptable present to the Rev. the Provost,
    and the Gentlemen Fellows of the University of Dublin, it is now
    offered for their acceptance, as a most grateful acknowledgment for the
    very high honour[1], they were pleased {429} so graciously to confer
    on his Lordship's only descendant, the late learned accomplished George
    Monk Berkeley, Esq. (Gentleman Commoner of Magdalene Hall, in the
    University of Oxon., and student of the Inner Temple, London), from his
    very sincerely grateful mother.

    Some time after the death of his son, Dr. Berkeley told me that at my
    death he wished the wonderfully fine portrait of his father to be
    presented to some place of consequence. I immediately replied, "To
    Dublin College." He said, "They have one already; perhaps it would be
    well to leave it as an heir-loom to the Episcopal Palace at Cloyne." I
    said perhaps the gentlemen of Dublin College would prefer this,
    esteemed one of the very finest pieces of painting in Europe. The face
    certainly looks more like a fine cast in wax, than a painting on
    canvas, as numbers of the best judges have always exclaimed on seeing
    it.

    I request Dr. Berkeley's noble relation, the excellent Lord Molesworth,
    now on a visit in Ireland, to deliver this, and to learn from the
    Provost and Gentlemen of the University of Dublin, whether it would be
    agreeable to them to receive this, and transfer the one they at present
    have to Dr. Berkeley's highly respected friend, the present Bishop of
    Cloyne, for the Palace. Lord Molesworth will have the goodness to
    receive and transmit the answer of the Provost and Gentlemen to her who
    has the honour to subscribe herself, with the most perfect respect,
    their

      Very sincerely grateful and
          (Thro' her unspeakably dear excellent Son)
              Most highly obliged,
                  ELIZA BERKELEY.

      Chertsey, Surrey, England.
      The 18th of Feb., 1797.

I cannot find any evidence to prove that this letter was ever so much as received by the University.
It came into my possession amongst the papers of a private friend, a late distinguished ornament
of the University, whose death has been an irreparable loss to the public, to the Church of
England, and to a large circle of friends. No notice of such a letter, or of so liberal a donation,
is to be found in the Register of the University, nor is there such a picture in our possession.
I have made inquiry also, and find that it is not at Cloyne. The conclusion therefore is, either
that Mrs. Berkeley changed her mind, or that from some accident the letter never was presented:
at all events, it is certain that the picture of Bishop Berkeley, to which it relates, was
never in the possession of the University for whose halls it was intended.

Can any one tell me where it now is; and what was the fate of "the fine collection of pictures"
which was the property of Dr. Berkeley of Canterbury, and bequeathed by him to his widow, the
writer of the above letter?

J. H. TODD.

[Footnote 1: This alludes to the honourable degree of LL.B. conferred upon George M. Berkeley
by the University of Dublin, Nov. 8, 1788.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Life.--Is it not the general feeling that man, in advancing years, would not like to begin
his life again? I have noted that Edgeworth, Franklin, and Sismondi express the contrary.

A. C.

"The Boy of Heaven."--I have a poem entitled The Boy of Heaven, copied some years ago from
a manuscript. Can any of your readers inform me who is the author, whether it has ever appeared
in print, or give me any other information respecting it?

W. P.

Bells.--Can any of your readers inform me why the bells of the Convent of Santa Theresa, at
Madrid, alone have the privilege of tolling on Good Friday, in that city? In all Roman Catholic
countries the bells on that day are forbidden to be rung; and there is no exception made, even
in Rome.

As much has been said about the baptizing of bells, as if it were a custom nearly or entirely
obsolete, I beg to say that I was present at the baptizing of a bell in the south-west of France
not very long ago; and have no doubt that the great bell at Bordeaux, which is to have the
emperor and empress as its sponsors, will undergo the full ceremony.

CERIDWEN.

Captain Ayloff.--Where can I find any notices of Captain Ayloff, one of the coadjutors of Tom
Brown in the eccentric Letters from the Dead to the Living?

V. T. STERNBERG.

Robert Johnson.--Perhaps some of your correspondents could give me some information relative
to the pedigree of Robert Johnson, Esq., who was a baron of the Exchequer in Ireland in 1704;
his parentage and descent; his wife's name and family; his armorial bearings; and date of his
birth and death.

Was he the Robert Johnson who entered Trinity College, Dublin, in 1671, as a Fellow Commoner
at the age of fourteen? If so, his birthplace was London, and his father's name was also Robert.

E. P. L.

Co. Westmeath.

Selling a Wife.--What is the origin of the popular idea, that a man may legally dispose of
his spouse by haltering her, and exposing her for sale in a public market? Some time ago the
custom appears to have been very prevalent; and only a few months back there was a paragraph
in The Times, describing an occurrence of the kind at Nottingham.

French romancers and dramatists have seized upon it as a leading trait of English society;
and in their remarkably-faithful delineations of English life it is not unusual to find the
blue-beard milord Anglais carting milady to Smithfield, and {430} enlarging upon her points
in the cheap-jack style to the admiring drovers.

V. T. STERNBERG.

Jock of Arden.--This worthy of the Robin Hood class of heroes, is understood to figure very
prominently in the legendary history of Warwickshire. Where can any references to his real
or supposed history be found, and what are the legends of which he is the hero?

W. Q.

Inigo Jones.--Where can a full list of mansions and other important buildings, erected from
designs after that great master architect Inigo Jones, be found?

A CORRESPONDENT.

Dean Boyle.--Wanted, the pedigree of Richard Boyle, Dean of Limerick, and Bishop of Leighlin
in 1661. He had a brother Roger, also in the church. Was he a grandson of John Boyle of Hereford,
eldest brother of Roger, father of Richard, first Earl of Cork? This John married Alice, daughter
of Alex. Hayworth, of Burdun Hall, Herefordshire.

Y. S. M.

Dublin.

Euphormio (Vol. i., p. 27.).--Mention is made of Censura Euphormionis and other tracts, called
forth by Barclay's works: where can some account of these be found?

P. J. F. GANTILLON, B.A.

Optical Query.--Last summer the following illusion was pointed out to me at Sandwich, Kent.
The ingenious horizontal machine to enable the treadmill to grind the wind, in default of more
substantial matter, although certainly revolving only in one direction, say from right to left,
at intervals appeared to change its direction and turn from left to right. This change appeared
to several persons to take place at the same time, and did not seem to be owing to any shifting
of the perpendicular shutters for regulating the resistance of the air. The point from which
I viewed it was near the south door of St. Clement's Church. Have any of the readers of "N.
& Q." noticed a similar illusion, and can they explain it?

H. H.

Gloucester.

Archbishop King.--The well-known William King, Archbishop of Dublin, was interred in the graveyard
of the parish of St. Mary, Donnybrook, near Dublin, as appears from the following entry in
the Register of Burials: "Buried, Archbishop King, May 10th, 1729." There is no stone to mark
his grave. I would be glad to know whether there is any monument elsewhere,

I would likewise be glad to know whether there is any good engraving of the archbishop in existence.
I have lately procured a copy of a small and rather curious one, engraved by "Kane o' Hara,"
and "published, Sept. 20th, 1803, by William Richardson, York House, 31. Strand;" and I am
informed by a friend that a portrait (of what size I am not aware) was sold by auction in London,
15th February, 1800, for the sum of 3l. 6s. It was described at that time as "very rare."

Donnybrook graveyard, I may add, is rich in buried ecclesiastics, containing the remains of
Dr. Robert Clayton, Bishop of Clogher (a man of note in his day), and other dignitaries of
our church.

ABHBA.

Neal's Manuscripts.--In Neal's History of the Puritans, he frequently refers at bottom of the
page to a manuscript in his possession thus (MS. penes me, p. 88.): will any of your readers
inform me where this MS. is preserved, and whether I can have access to it? It was evidently
a voluminous compilation, as it extended to many hundred pages.

T. F.

Whence the Word "Cossack?"--Alison says, on the authority of Koramsin (vi. 476.), "The word
Cossack means a volunteer or free partisan," &c. (Vide History of Europe, vol. ix. p. 31.)
I have found the word "Kasak" in the Gulistan of Saadi, which there means a robber of the kind
called rahzán. From the word being spelt in the Gulistan with a [Arabic: q], it appears to
me to be an Arabic word. Can any reader enlighten

MUHAMMED?

A. N. Club

Picts' Houses and Argils.--The Cimmerians, a people mentioned by Herodotus, who occupied principally
the peninsula of the Crimea, are distinguished by Prichard from the Cimbri or Kimbri, but supposed
by M. Amédée Thierry to be a branch of the same race, and Celtic. Many of their customs are
said to present a striking conformity with those of the Cimbri of the Baltic and of the Gauls.
Those who inhabited the hills in the Crimea bore the name of Taures or Tauri, a word, Thierry
says, signifying mountaineers in both the Kimbric and Gaulish idioms. The tribe of the plains,
according to Ephorus, a Greek writer cotemporary with Aristotle, mentioned in Strabo, lib.
v., dug subterraneous habitations, which they called argil or argel, a pure Kimbric word, which
signifies a covered or deep place:

    [Greek: Ephoros phêsin autous en katageiois oikiais oikein has kalousin
    argillas.]

Having seen several of the rude and miserable buildings underground in the Orkneys, called
Picts' houses, I should like to know something of these argils or argillæ, but suppose them
to be calculated for the requirements of a more advanced state of society than that of the
dwellers in Picts' houses. Perhaps some of your correspondents could give information on this
matter. {431} For the above, vide Introduction to Amédée Thierry's Histoire des Gaulois, &c.,
1828, p. 57.

W. H. F.

The Drummer's Letter.--The letter from the drummer to the corporal's wife in The Sentimental
Journey (it is hardly possible to give a precise reference to any part of this little work)
ends thus:

    "Je suis, Madame,

    "Avec toutes les sentimens les plus respectueux et les plus tendres,
    tout à vous,

     "JAQUES ROCQUE."

Why is the first of the adjectives agreeing with les sentimens in the wrong gender? The blot
may be a trifling one, but I think I may say that it defaces every copy of this well-known
billet-doux. I have seen many editions of The Sentimental Journey, some by the best publishers
of the time in which they lived, and I find the same mistake in all: I do not know of a single
exception. If Sterne wrote toutes, it must have been by accident; there is nothing to prove
that he wished to make the poor drummer commit the solecism, for the rest of his letter is
not only correctly, but even elegantly written.

C. FORBES.

Temple.

The Cardinal Spider.--I have read somewhere an account of a singular species of spider, which
is of unusually large size, and is said to be found only in Hampton Court Palace.

It is supposed by superstitious persons that the spirits of Cardinal Wolsey and his retinue
still haunt the palace in the shape of spiders; hence the name "Cardinal."

Can any of your correspondents inform me where such an account is to be met with, as I have
forgotten the name of the book in which I have seen it?

W. T.

Norwich.

New England Genealogical Society, &c.--Can any of your correspondents inform me where I can
address a letter to, for Dr. Jenks, Secretary to the New England Genealogical Society? And
where can I see a copy of Farmer's New England Genealogical Register, 1829, and The New England
Genealogical Register and Magazine for 1847, mentioned by your correspondent T. WESTCOTT, "N.
& Q.," Vol. vi., p. 495.?

J. K.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries with Answers.

Dr. John Hartcliffe, Dr. Wm. Cokayne, Dr. Samuel Kettilby.--Can any of your correspondents
tell me whether John Hartcliffe, D.D., Fellow of King's, Cambridge, and Head-master of Merchant
Taylors' from 1681 to 1686, is the Dr. Hartcliffe whom James II. wishes to instal illegally
in the Provostship of King's, as he attempted to impose a President on Magdalen, Oxon?

I should be glad also to know whether there is any continuation of Ward's Lives of the Gresham
Professors, reaching to the present time; and, in particular, the dates of the appointments
or deaths of William Cokayne, D.D., Professor of Astronomy, and William Roman, B.C.L., Professor
of Geometry?

Likewise, of what faculty was Samuel Kettilby, D.D., Professor; and when did he die?

JAMES HESSEY.

Merchant Taylors'.

    [It was Dr. John Hartcliffe, of Merchant Taylors', that wished to
    become Provost of King's College: but the mandate was obtained from
    King William, not from James II. Hartcliffe's Discourse against
    Purgatory, 1685, which Anthony à Wood thinks was publicly burnt in
    France, was not likely to recommend him to the favour of the latter
    king. The affair of the Provostship is thus stated by Cole (Hist. of
    King's College, vol. iv. Addit. MSS. 5817.)--"On the death of Dr.
    Copleston, Hartcliffe made a great stir, in order to become Provost,
    and actually obtained a mandate of King William to the society to
    choose him; but he was far from being agreeable to the Fellows of the
    college, who, when they heard he was in town, and upon what errand he
    came, directly shut up the college gates, and proceeded to an election,
    when Dr. Roderick was chosen, with the odds of ten votes to one. This
    being transacted in the infancy of King William's reign, he chose not
    to stir much in it; but after having shown the Fellows, by the very
    petition they made to him, which was presented by Mr. Newborough and
    Mr. Fleetwood, that he had a right to present, he dismissed them." A
    biographical notice of Dr. Hartcliffe is given in Nichols's Literary
    Anecdotes, vol. i. pp. 63, 64., and in Wood's Athenæ (Bliss), vol.
    iv. p. 790.

    No one appears to have continued Ward's Lives of the Gresham
    Professors. Maitland, in his History of London, has brought the
    history of the institution down to 1755. Dr. Ward himself had prepared
    a new edition, containing considerable additions, which was presented
    to the British Museum by his residuary legatee. Among the Additional
    MSS. also will be found a large mass of papers and correspondence
    relating to the Lives. From one document, entitled "Minutes relating
    to the Lives of the Professors of Gresham College, being Additions to
    the printed Work," we extract the following notice of "William Cokayne,
    who was the son of George Cokayne, of Dovebridge in Devonshire, clerk.
    He was educated at Merchant Taylors' School, in London, and from thence
    elected probationer Fellow of St. John's College, where he was
    matriculated 9th July, 1736. He commenced A.M. 9th July, 1744; made
    Junior Proctor 1750; and B.D. 4th July, 1751." The date of his
    appointment as Astronomy Professor is not given; but his resignation,
    in 1795, will be found in the Gentleman's Magazine, vol. lxv. p. 711.
    He appears to have died in 1798 (see Ib., vol. lxviii. p. 641.), when
    the Rev. Joseph Monkhouse succeeded him as Rector of Kilkhampton, co.
    Cornwall.

    {432}

    The MS. "Minutes" also contain a notice of William Roman, the
    thirteenth Geometry Professor, "who was educated at Merchant Taylors'
    School, London, and from thence elected to St. John's College, Oxford,
    in 1740, being matriculated as the son of Richard Roman, of London,
    Gent., ætat. 17. He commenced B.C.L., May 5th, 1747; Deacon at Christ
    Church, 21st Sept., 1746; Priest at Christ Church, 20th Sept., 1747."
    No date of his appointment, but he was Professor in 1755, when Maitland
    wrote his account of the college. Dr. Samuel Kettilby succeeded the
    Rev. Samuel Birch as Geometry Lecturer, and died June 25, 1808.--See
    Gentleman's Magazine, vol. lxxviii. p. 657.]

"Haulf Naked."--In poring over an old deed the other night, I stumbled upon the above name,
which I take to be that of a manor in the county of Sussex. Is it so? and, if so, by what name
is the property now known?

CHARLES REED.

    [In Dallaway's Western Sussex, art. WASHINGTON, vol. ii. pt. ii. p.
    133., is the following entry:--"In 1310, Henry Balduyne sold to Walter
    de Halfenaked one messuage, two acres of arable, and two acres of
    meadow, in Washington and Sullington. Ped. fin. 3 Edw. II."]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

THE LEGEND OF LAMECH--HEBREW ETYMOLOGY.

(Vol. vii., p. 363.)

Etymologists are a race who frequently need to be drawn up with a somewhat tight rein. Our
Celtic fellow-subjects will not, perhaps, be much gratified by MR. CROSSLEY's tracing the first
indications of their paternal tongue to the family of Cain; and as every branch of that family
was destroyed by the deluge, they may marvel what account he can give of its reconstruction
amongst their forefathers. But as his manner of expressing himself may lead some of your readers
to imagine that he is explaining Cain, Lamech, Adah, Zillah, from acknowledged Hebrew meanings
of any parts of those words, it may be as well to warn them that the Hebrew gives no support
to any one of his interpretations. If fancy be ductile enough to agree with him in seeing a
representation of a human arm holding a sling with a stone in it in the Hebrew letter called
lamed, there would still be a broad hiatus between such a concession, and the conclusion he
seems to wish the reader to draw from it, viz. that the word lamed must have something to do
with slinging, and that consequently lamed must be a slinger. The Hebrew scholar knows that
lamed indisputably signifies to teach; and though perhaps he may not feel sure that the Hebrew
consonant l obtained its name from any connexion with that primary meaning of the root lamed,
he will not think it improbable that as the letter l, when prefixed to a noun or verb, teaches
the reader the construction of the sentence, that may have been the reason for its being so named.

As to a legend not traceable to within some thousand years of the facts
with which it claims to be connected, those may take an interest in it who
like so to do. But as far as we may regard Lamech's address to his wives in
the light of a philological curiosity, it is interesting to observe how
naturally the language of passion runs into poetry; and that this, the most
ancient poetry in existence, is in strict unison with the peculiar
character of subsequent Hebrew poetry; that peculiarity consisting of the
repetition of clauses, containing either the same proposition in a slightly
different form, or its antithesis; a rhyme of thoughts, if we may so say,
instead of a rhyme of sounds, and consequently capable of being preserved
by a literal translation.
  If Cain shall be avenged seventy-fold,
  Truly Lamech, seventy and seven-fold."

The construction is more favourable to the belief that the man of line third is the same as
the young man of the parallel clause, than that he had slain two; the word rendered hurt is
properly a wheal, the effect of a severe strife or wound.

As to the etymologies of the names mentioned by MR. CROSSLEY, we gather from God's words that
she called her first son Cain, an acquisition (the Latin peculium expresses it more exactly
than any English word), because she had gotten (literally acquired, or obtained possession
of) a man. As for Lamech, or more properly L[)e]m[)e]ch, its etymology must be confessed to
be uncertain; but there is a curious and interesting explanation of the whole series of names
of the patriarchs, Noah's forefathers, in which the name of the other Lemech, son of Methusaleh,
is regarded as made up of L[)e], the prefixed preposition, and of mech, taken for the participle
Hophal of the verb to smite or bruise. Adah, [Hebrew: 'DH], is ornament; Zillah, [Hebrew: TSLH]
may mean the shade under which a person reposes; or if the doubling of the l is an indication
that its root is [Hebrew: TSLL], it may mean a dancer.

H. WALTER.

Allow me, in reference to MR. CROSSLEY's remarks, to say, that from the accidental resemblance
of the Hebrew and Celtic words Lamech and Lamaich, no philological argument can be drawn of
identical meaning, any more than from the fact that the words Nebuchadnezzar, Belshazar, or
Belteshassar[2], are significant in Russian {433} and Sclavonian, as well as in Chaldee. Lamache
in Arabic means (see Freytag) "levi intuitu et furtim adspicere aliquem;" also to shine, as
lightning, or a star. Lamech, therefore, is an appropriate designation for a man known to prowl
about for plunder and murder, and whose eye, whether taking aim or not, would give a sudden
and furtive glance.

The word lamed signifies, in Hebrew, teaching; the word Talmud is from the same root. It is
the same in Syriac and Chaldee. The original significant of these three languages is to be
found in the Arabic Lamada: "Se submisit alicui; humiliter se gessit erga aliquem." (Freytag.)
No argument can be drawn from the shape of the letter [Hebrew: L] (lamed), because, although
popularly so called, it is not a Hebrew letter, but a Chaldee one. The recent discoveries,
published in Layard's last work, demonstrate this fact; Mr. Layard falls into the mistake of
calling the basin inscriptions Hebrew, although Mr. Ellis, who had translated them, says expressly
that the language is Chaldee (Nineveh and Babylon, p. 510.), one of them only being Syriac
(p. 521.). Chaldee and Syriac, indeed, differ from each other as little as Chaucer's and Shakspeare's
English, although the written characters are wholly distinct.

Davis, in his Celtic Researches, has done all that was possible, taking a very limited view,
however, in fixing upon certain linguistic resemblances in some ancient tongues to the Celtic;
but a clear apprehension of the proper place which the Celtic language and its congeners hold
in comparative philology, can only be learnt from such works as Adelung's Mithridates, and
Adrien Balbi's Atlas Ethnographique du Globe.

T. J. BUCKTON.

[Footnote 2: The accidental resemblances are curious. Thus, Nebucadnetzar is in Russian nebê
kazenniy Tzar, "A Lord or Prince appointed by heaven;" or, nebu godnoi Tzar, "A Prince fit
for heaven." Belshatzar is also in Russian bolszoi Tzar, "A great Prince;" and Belteshtzar,
Daniel's Chaldean pagan name, is byl têsh Tzar, "he was also a Prince," i. e. "of the royal
family."]

The interpretation of Hessius (Geschichte der Patriarchen, i. 83.) is preferred by Rosenmüller:

    "Ex hujus Doctissimi Viri sententia Lamechus sese jactat propter
    filios suos, qui artium adeo utilium essent inventores: Cainum
    progenitorem suum propter cædem non esse punitum, multo minus se posse
    puniri, si vel simile scelus commisisset. Verba enim non significant,
    cædam ab eo revera esse paratam, sed sunt verba hominis admodum
    insolentis et profani. Ceterum facile apparet, hæc verba a Mose ex
    quodam carmine antiquo inserta esse: tota enim oratio poeticam quandam
    sublimitatem spirat."

The sense of these two verses (Gen. iv. 23, 24.) is, according to Dathe:

    "Si propter viri aut juvenis cædem vulnera et plagæ mihi intendantur,
    cum de Caino poena septuplex statuta fuerit, in Lamecho id fiet
    septuagies septies."

Herder, in his Geist der ebräischen Poesie (i. 344.) says:

    "Carmen hoc Lamechi laudes canere gladii a filio inventi, cujus usum et
    præstantiam contra hostiles aliorum insultus his verbis prædicet:
    Lamechi mulieres audite sermonem meum, percipite dicta mea: Occido jam
    virum, qui me vulneravit, juvenem, qui plagam mihi infligit. Si Cainus
    septies ulciscendus, in Lamecho id fiet septuagies septies."

T. J. BUCKTON.

Birmingham.

The legend of the shooting of Cain by Lamech is detailed in The Creation of the World, with
Noah's Flood, a Cornish mystery, translated into English by John Keigwin, and edited by Davies
Gilbert, Esq. The legend and translation, in parallel columns, are given also at pp. 15, 16.
of Mr. Gilbert's "Collections and Translations respecting St. Neot," prefixed to descriptive
account (in 4to., with sixteen coloured plates) of the windows of St. Neot's Church in Cornwall,
by Mr. Hedgeland, who restored them, 1805-1829, at the expense of the Rev. Richard Gerveys
Grylls, patron, and formerly incumbent of the living.

JOSEPH RIX.

St. Neot's, Huntingdonshire.

       *       *       *       *       *

LORD COKE'S CHARGE TO THE JURY.

(Vol. vii., p. 376.)

Saltpetre-man.--An explanation of this title may be found in a proclamation of King Charles
I. (1625):

    "For the Maintaining and Increasing of the Saltpetre Mines of England,
    for the Necessary and Important Manufacture of Gunpowder."

This proclamation states:

    "That our realm naturally yields sufficient mines of saltpetre without
    depending on foreign parts; wherefore, for the future, no dovehouse
    shall be paved with stones, bricks, nor boards, lime, sand, nor gravel,
    nor any other thing whereby the growth and increase of the mine and
    saltpetre may be hindered or impaired; but the proprietors shall suffer
    the ground or floors thereof, as also all stables where horses stand,
    to lie open with good and mellow earth, apt to breed increase of the
    said mine. And that none deny or hinder any saltpetre-man, lawfully
    deputed thereto, from digging, taking, or working any ground which by
    commission may be taken and wrought for saltpetre. Neither shall any
    constable, or other officer, neglect to furnish any such
    saltpetre-man with convenient carriages, that the King's service
    suffer not. None shall bribe any saltpetre-man for the sparing or
    forbearing of any ground fit to be wrought for saltpetre," &c.

It would appear that the saltpetre-man abused his authority, and that the people suffered a
good deal of annoyance from the manner in which this {434} absurd system was carried out; for
two years afterwards we find that another proclamation was published by the King, notifying,
"that the practice of making saltpetre in England by digging up the floors of dwelling-houses,
&c. &c., tended too much to the grievance of his loving subjects ... that notwithstanding all
the trouble, not one third part of the saltpetre required could be furnished." It proceeds
to state that Sir John Brooke and Thomas Russell, Esq., had proposed a new method of manufacturing
the article, and that an exclusive patent had been granted to them. The King then commands
his subjects in London and Westminster, that after notice given, they "carefully keep in proper
vessels all human urine throughout the year, and as much of that of beasts as can be saved."
This appeared to fail; for at the end of the same year, the "stable" monarch proclaimed a return
to the old method, giving a commission to the Duke of Buckingham, and some others, to "...
break open ... and work for saltpetre," as might be found requisite; and in 1634, a further
proclamation was issued renewing the old ones, but excepting the houses, stables, &c. of persons
of quality.

During the Commonwealth the nuisance was finally got rid of; for an act was passed in 1656,
directing that "none shall dig within the houses, &c. of any person without their leave first
obtained."

BROCTUNA.

Bury, Lancashire.

J. O. treats The Lord Coke, his Speech and Charge, with a Discoverie of the Abuses and Corruptions
of Officers, 8vo. London: N. Butter, 1607, as a genuine document; but it is not so; and, lest
the error should gain ground, the following account of the book, from the Preface, by Lord
Coke, to the seventh part of his Reports, is subjoined:

    "And little do I esteem an uncharitable and malicious practice in
    publishing of an erroneous and ill-spelled pamphlet under the name
    Pricket, and dedicating it to my singular good lord and father-in-law,
    the Earl of Exeter, as a charge given at the assizes holden at the city
    of Norwich, 4th August, 1606, which I protest was not only published
    without my privity, but (beside the omission of divers principal
    matters) that there is no one period therein expressed in that sort and
    sense that I delivered: wherein it is worthy of observation, how their
    expectation (of scandalizing me) was wholly deceived; for behold the
    catastrophe! Such of the readers as were learned in the laws, finding
    not only gross errors and absurdities on law, but palpable mistakings
    in the very words of art, and the whole context of that rude and ragged
    style wholly dissonant (the subject being legal) from a lawyer's
    dialect, concluded that inimicus et iniquus homo superseminavit
    zizania in medio tritici, the other discreet and indifferent readers,
    out of sense and reason, found out the same conclusion, both in respect
    of the vanity of the phrase, and for that I, publishing about the same
    time one of my commentaries, would, if I had intended the publication
    of any such matter, have done it myself, and not to have suffered any
    of my works pass under the name of Pricket; and so unâ voce
    conclamaverunt omnes, that it was a shameful and shameless practice,
    and the author thereof to be a wicked and malicious falsary."

J. G.

Exon.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHITE ROSES.

(Vol. vii., p. 329.)

The allusion is to the well-known Jacobite badge of the white rose, which
was regularly worn on June 10, the anniversary of the Old Pretender's
birthday, by his adherents. 1752, vol.
    i. p. 48.

The following lines are extracted from a collection of considerable merit, now become uncommon,
the authors of the different papers in which were Dr. Deacon and Dr. Byrom, and which is entitled
Manchester Vindicated (Chester, 1749, 12mo.). The occasion was on a soldier snatching a white
rose from the bosom of a young lady on June 10, 1747:

              I.

 "Phillis to deck her snowy breast
    The rival-flowers around display'd,
  Thraso, to grace his war-like crest
    Of orange-knots a huge cockade,
  That reds and whites, and nothing else,
  Should set the beaux against the belles!

              II.

 "Yet so it was; for yesterday
    Thraso met Phillis with her posies,
  And thus began th' ungentle fray,
   'Miss, I must execute those roses.'
  Then made, but fruitless made, a snatch,
  Repuls'd with pertinacious scratch.

              III.

 "Surpriz'd at such a sharp rebuke,
    He cast about his cautious eyes,
  Invoking Vict'ry and the Duke,
    And once again attack'd the prize;
  Again is taught to apprehend,
  How guardian thorns the rose defend.

              IV.

 "Force being twice in vain apply'd,
    He condescended then to reason;
 'Ye Jacobitish ----,' he cry'd
   'In open street, the love of treason
  With your white roses to proclaim!
  Go home, ye rebel slut, for shame!'
  {435}

              V.

 "'Go you abroad to Flanders yonder,
    And show your valour there, Sir Knight;
  What bus'ness have you here, I wonder,
    With people's roses, red or white?
  Go you abroad, for shame,' says Phillis,
 'And from the Frenchmen pluck their lilies.'

              VI.

 "'Lilies!' says Thraso, 'lilies too!
    The wench, I find, would be a wit,
  Had she command of words eno',
    And on the right one chanced to hit:
  For pity, once, I'll set her clear:
  The laurels, you would say, my dear.'

              VII.

 "'No, but I would not, Sir; you know
    What laurels are no more than I,
  Upon your head they'll never grow,
    My word for that, friend, and good-bye:
  He that of roses robs a wench,
  Will ne'er pluck laurels from the French.'"

JAS. CROSSLEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

BURIAL OF UNCLAIMED CORPSE.

(Vol. vii., pp. 262. 340.)

A tradition of similar character with that mentioned by E. G. R., and noticed by J. H. L.,
is reported to have occurred between the parishes of Shipdham and Saham Tony in Norfolk, of
a corpse being found on the common pasture of Shipdham, which parish refused to bury it, and
the parish of Saham Tony, therefore, was at the expense thereof, and claimed a considerable
piece of the common pasture from Shipdham, in consequence of the neglect of the latter parish.

A fine continues to be paid by Shipdham to Saham to this time; and although many entries are
made of such payments in the early parish accounts, beginning A.D. 1511, yet in no instance
is it said the reason or cause of these payments being annually made. The said payments are
not always of the same amount; they are sometimes paid in money and sometimes in kind, as the
following instances show.

The first entry I meet with is in 1511:

         Payd the halffe mark at Saham.
  1512.  Delyvyrd to same ij buschells of otts, viij^d; in sylv^r, ij^d.
  1513.  The same payment as in 1512.
  1514.  No entry of any payment.
  1515.  Payd for woots to Saham, vj^d, and ij^d of mony.
  1516.  Payd to y^e hallemarke, j^d (not said if to Saham or not).
         This entry "to y^e hallemark" may be an error of the scribe for
             "y^e halffe mark," as in the first entry under 1511.
  1517.  Payd to y^e halffe mark, j^d (no doubt to Saham).
  1518.  No entry of payment to Saham.
  1519.  Payd to same for ij barssels of owte, vj^d;
           to same, ij^d                                   viij^d
  1520.  Payd for ij busschellys of otte to same,
           viij^d; and a henne, ij^d                       x^d
  1521.  Payd to same for ij buschells of ots, xj^d,
           and ij^d in sylver                              xiij^d
  1522.  Payd for y^e half marke, j^d; payd for
           oots to same, vij^d                             viij^d
  1523.  Payd for y^e halff mark (no doubt to Saham)          j^d
  1524.  Payd for otts to sam and wodlod                   viij^d
  1525.  Similar entry to the last.
  1526.  Payd for otts to same, viij^d; payd for
           wod led to same, j^d                              ix^d
  1527.  Payd the halffe mark, j^d; paid to the
           Comon, to (two) bussells otts, ix^d, and
           a j^d in lieu of a henne                          xj^d
  1539.  Payd to same for the task                            x^d[3]
  1541.  Payd to Thomas Lubard, for ij bs. of
           otts to Saham                                   viij^d
         Payd to y^e seyd Thomas for j heyn
           (hen) to Saham                                    ij^d

On looking through the town accounts of Shipdham, I find entries of--

  Payd to the half mark to Saham                j^d
  Ij bushells oates, and in lieu of a hen      ij^d

The only entry in which I find anything at all apparently relative to the common is that under
1527. Whether the court books of Saham would throw any light on the subject, I know not. Should
an opportunity offer for my searching them, I will do so.

G. H. I.

P.S.--Although I have given several entries of the customary payments to Saham, they are merely
given to show the different modes of making those entries, and not in expectation of your giving
all of them, unless you think any further light can be given on the subject. As before, perhaps
the court books of the manor of Saham would assist.

It was an annual custom for Shipdham people to "Drive the common" (as it was called) once a
year, in a night of an uncertain time, when all the cattle, &c. found within the limits or
boundary of Shipdham were impounded in a farm-yard adjoining. Upon the common, all those belonging
to owners residing in Shipdham and claimed were set at liberty, while those belonging to Saham
had to be replevied by a small payment, which custom continued up to the period of the commons
being inclosed. Perhaps this custom was by way of retaliation, by which means the charge of
payment of oats and a hen was recovered by the money paid for replevying their cattle, &c.
so impounded.

[Footnote 3: No payment entered in the accounts between 1527 and 1539. The average tenpence
annually.]

       *       *       *       *       *

PSALMANAZAR.

(Vol. vii., p. 206.)

Your correspondent inquires as to the real name of this most penitent of impostors. I fear
that {436} there is now no likelihood of its being discovered. His most intimate friends appear
to have been kept in the dark on this subject. With respect to his country, the most probable
conclusion seems to be, that he was born in the south of Europe, in a city of Languedoc. A
very near approximation seems to be made to the exact locality by a careful collation of the
circumstances mentioned in his autobiography, in the excellent summary of his life in the Gentleman's
Magazine, vols. xxxiv. and xxxv., which is much better worth consulting than the articles in
Aikin or Chalmers; which are poor and superficial, and neither of which gives any list of his
works, or notices the Essay on Miracles, by a Layman (London, 1753, 8vo.), which is one of
them, though published anonymously. There is a very amusing account of conversations with him
at Oxford, in the Gentleman's Magazine, vol. xxxv. p. 78., in which, before a large company
of ladies and gentlemen who were curious as to the customs of Formosa, he gravely defended
the practice which he said existed in that country, of cutting off the heads of their wives
and eating them, in case of misconduct. "I think it is no sin," continued he, "to eat human
flesh, but I must own it is a little unmannerly." He admitted that he once ate part of a black;
but they being always kept to hard work, their flesh was tough and unsavoury. His grandfather,
he said, lived to 117, and was as vigorous as a young man, in consequence of sucking the blood
of a viper warm every morning; but they had been forced to kill him, he being attacked with
a violent fit of the colic, and desiring them to stab him, which, in obedience to another "custom
of the country," they had done. Splendidè mendax! was certainly, in his younger days, this
much venerated friend of our great moralist. I should, however, feel inclined to forgive much
of his extraordinary romancing for the admirable manner in which he settled that chattering
twaddler, Bishop Burnet:

    "He was one day with Dr. Burnet, Bishop of Sarum, who, after his warm
    manner, cried, 'Ay, you say so; but what proof can you give that you
    are not of China, Japan, or any other country?' 'The manner of my
    flight,' replied he, 'did not allow me to bring credentials: but
    suppose your lordship were in Formosa, and should say you are an
    Englishman, might not the Formosan as justly reply, You say you are an
    Englishman; but what proof can you give that you are not of any other
    country? for you look as like a Dutchman as any that ever traded to
    Formosa.' This silenced his lordship."

JAMES CROSSLEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

GRAFTS AND THE PARENT TREE.

(Vol. vii., p. 365.)

I was surprised to find it stated as "a fact" by MR. INGLEBY, "that grafts, after some fifteen
years, wear themselves out." A visit to one of the great orchard counties would assure him
of the existence of tens of thousands of grafted apple and pear trees, still in a healthy state,
and from forty to fifty years old, and more. There are grafted trees of various kinds in this
country, which to my own knowledge are upwards of sixty years old; and I have little doubt
but that there are some a good deal older.

The ancient Ribstone pippin, which stood in Ribstone Park, till it died in 1835, was believed
to have been grafted. Such was the opinion of one of the gardeners there; and a writer in the
Gardeners' Chronicle, 1845, p. 21., states that in 1830 he fell in with the Ribstone pippin
in great abundance in Switzerland, in the valley of Sarnen; and he remarks that it is more
probable this apple was introduced into England from that country, than the reverse. The question
has not been conclusively settled.

Notwithstanding "the belief that the graft perishes when the parent tree decays" is pronounced
by MR. INGLEBY to be a fond superstition, yet there are certain facts, well known to orchard
growers, which give some warrant for it. Without committing myself altogether to this doctrine,
I will state a few of them.

It is well known that no cider or perry fruit is so good, on first being introduced, as it
is after fifteen or twenty years of cultivation. A certain period seems to be required to mature
the new sort, and bring it to its full vigour (long after it is in full bearing) before it
is at its best. The tree, with all its grafted progeny, will last, perhaps fifty, perhaps more
than one hundred years, in a flourishing state, and then they will begin everywhere to decay;
nor has any device yet been successful in arresting that general decay.

Witness the rise, progress, and fall of the Forest Stire of Gloucestershire, the Foxwhelp and
Redstreak of Herefordshire, the Golden Pippin, and, more lately, the Ribstone Pippin, of which
there is an increasing complaint, not to mention many others in the same condition. The first-named
apple is very nearly extinct, and the small quantity of the fruit that is still to be had fetches
enormous prices.

Whether this decay be owing to grafting, is a question which can be decided only by the future
behaviour of the suckers from the original tree, several of which from the tree at Ribstone
Park are now growing at Chiswick and elsewhere.

I am aware that Dr. Lindley combats very eagerly the doctrine that varieties of the apple and
pear, or indeed of any tree, die naturally of old age; but the only incontrovertible fact which
he adduces in support of his argument, is the existence of the French White Beurré pear, which
has flourished from time immemorial. His denial of the decay of the Golden Pippin, the Golden
{437} Harvey, and the Nonpareil, will not, I think, be allowed to be just by the experience
of your readers; the existence of the last-named apple for three centuries, supposing it to
be true, has not secured it exemption from the general fate.

H. C. K.

---- Rectory, Hereford.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

Glass Baths.--Several of your correspondents finding a difficulty in making glass baths, I
beg to communicate the way in which they may be very easily manufactured. Having obtained two
pieces of patent plate glass, grind the edges, which may readily be done by a scythe sand-stone,
where other contrivances are not handy. Cut for the bottom of the bath a slip of the same glass
three-quarters of an inch in breadth; and for the sides, from ordinary window-glass, four wedges,
being about three-fifths of an inch at one end, tapering down to the thickness of the piece
of plate glass at the bottom. If several pieces are cut off promiscuously, four may be selected
which have exactly the same angle, so as to form an even support to the sides. The glass being
perfectly clean, dry, and as warm as can be conveniently held by the hand, fix the bottom and
then the sides by means of the very best sealing-wax, which will perfectly adhere to the glass.
If the commoner sorts of wax are used, some marine glue must be added to it to temper it. The
side slips should be fixed a quarter of an inch apart, so as to form a cavity, which must be
entirely filled up with wax. The wax may be used as in sealing a letter in the first instance;
but, in order to give the whole bath solidity, and expel every particle of air from between
the glass, I use a heated pointed iron, as a plumber does in the act of soldering. This, passed
over the external parts of the wax, also gives it a hardness and smooth finish.

These details may appeal trifling, and others may have more ingenious modes of accomplishing
the object; but having used baths so constructed upwards of twelve months without leakage,
I believe they will be found to be most economical, and far more to be relied on than gutta
percha. A good bath so made should require about six ounces of solution of nitrate of silver
to take a picture eight inches square. Your observations in a former Number, respecting the
uncertainty of gutta percha, I have found to be perfectly true. Samples of gutta percha constantly
vary; and one may contain impurities acted upon by the chemicals, which another does not. A
small rim formed by sealing-wax dissolved in spirits of wine, and applied twice or thrice along
the upper edge of the bath, is sufficient to protect the prepared glass from adhering to the
front of the bath when in use.

H. W. D.

Securing Calotype Negatives.--Will any of your correspondents be good enough to say what they
consider the best method of securing a calotype paper negative for a few days or a week, in
cases where it may be difficult, from lack of conveniences during that time, to use hyposulph.,
with its consequent washings, &c.? Some, I believe, recommend bromide of potassium; some, the
iodide; others, common salt: but I should like to know which is considered the best; what strength,
and how applied. Also, whether any subsequent treatment is necessary previous to the final
application of the hypo.

W. T.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Wood of the Cross (Vol. vii., pp. 177. 334.).--I find, in your 179th Number, p. 334., a communication
on "The Wood of the Cross." Mention is made of the several kinds of wood of which the cross
is said to have been made--elder, olive, &c. It is a somewhat curious coincidence, that yesterday
I was with a farmer in his garden, and observing on several apple-trees some luxuriant mistletoe,
I remarked that it was principally found on that tree, sometimes on the oak, but rarely on
other trees. The farmer, after inquiring whether it could be propagated by cuttings, &c., asked
if I had ever understood that our Saviour's cross was made of mistletoe? On replying in the
negative, and remarking that it was altogether unsuitable for such a purpose, he rejoined,
that, previously to that event, it was a large strong tree, but subsequently had been doomed
to have only a parasitical (not that he used the term) existence.

As CEYREP said "I never heard of our Lord's cross having been made of elder wood," so I would
also add, I never heard before of its being made of mistletoe. Did any one else ever hear of
this tradition?

S. S. S.

Bishops' Lawn Sleeves (Vol. vi., p. 271.).--J. G. T. has inquired concerning the date and origin
of the present robes of Anglican bishops. Mr. Trevor thus describes the bishop's dress in Convocation,
which is the proper dress of the episcopate:

    "The chimere is the Convocation habit of a doctor of divinity in
    Oxford, made of silk instead of cloth, as the rochet is an alb of lawn
    in place of linen, honoris causâ: the detaching the sleeves from the
    rochet, and sewing them to the upper garment instead, is obviously a
    contrivance of the robe-makers. Dr. Hody says that the scarlet robe
    worn by the bishops in the House of Lords is the doctor's gown at
    Cambridge; the first archbishops after the Reformation being of that
    university. (Hody, 140.) At Parker's consecration he appeared first
    in a scarlet gown and hood; then at the Holy Communion he and two of
    the consecrating bishops {438} wore white surplices, while the senior
    had a cope: and after his consecration he and the two diocesan bishops
    endued themselves in the now customary dress of a bishop, the
    archbishop having about his neck a collar of sables (Cardw. Doc.
    Ann., i. 243.). Before the Reformation, it was remarked as peculiar to
    the English bishops, that they always wore their white rochets, 'except
    when hunting.' (Hody, 141.)"--The Two Convocations, Note on, p.
    195.

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

Inscriptions in Books (Vol. vii., pp. 127. 337.).--The two accompanying inscriptions in books
were given to me the other day. The second is, I believe, much in vogue at Rugby.

 "Si quis errantem
  Videat libellum
  Reddat, aut collo
  Dabitur capistrum
  Carnufex ejus
  Tunicas habebit
  Terra cadaver."

 "Small is the wren,
  Black is the rook,
  Great is the sinner
  That steals this book." They are taken from his fine poem on Nun-Appleton, Lord
Fairfax's seat in Yorkshire; and will be found in vol. iii. p. 198. of
Marvell's Works, edit. 1776, 4to.

JAS. CROSSLEY.

Parochial Libraries (Vol. vi., p. 432.; Vol. vii., pp. 193. 369.).--Upon visiting Cartmel in
Lancashire ten years ago, I found a library in the vestry, and in my diary made the following
entry:

    "There is a small library in the vestry, of a very miscellaneous
    description, left by a former incumbent, two hundred years ago, to the
    vicar for the time being, to be kept in the vestry. There is a fine
    copy, in small quarto, of Spenser's Faery Queene in the collection,
    of the date 1560."

How I ascertained the date of the gift, or whether there were any other particulars worth recording,
I do not remember. Since taking "N. & Q." I have learnt the benefit, I might say the necessity,
of being more particular.

BRICK.

To your list of parochial libraries may be added one in Swaffham Church, Norfolk, bequeathed
to the parish by one of the Spelman family. It contains several hundred volumes, and among
them some of the Elzevir classics. About seven years ago I visited Swaffham, and found this
collection of books in a most disgraceful state, covered with dust and the dung of mice and
bats, and many of the books torn from their bindings. It would afford me great pleasure to
hear that more care is taken of such a valuable collection of books. There is also a smaller
library, in somewhat better preservation, in the vestry of St. Peter's, Mancroft Church, in
the city of Norwich.

E. G. R.

There are parochial libraries at Milden, Brent Eleigh, and at All Saints, Sudbury, Suffolk.
See Rev. C. Badham's Hist. and Antiq. of All Saints, Sudbury, 8vo. London, 1852, pp. 105-109.

W. SPARROW SIMPSON, B.A.

Huet's Navigations of Solomon (Vol. vii., p. 381.).--In reply to EDINA'S Query, Huet's treatise
De Navigationibus Salomonis was published in 1698, 12mo., at Amsterdam, and before his work
on the Commerce of the Ancients was printed. EDINA will find a short extract of its contents
in vol. ii. p. 479. of Dr. Aikin's Translation of Huet's Autobiography, published in 1810 in
two volumes 8vo. The subject is a curious and interesting one; but, from my perusal of the
tract, I should scarcely say that Huet has treated it very successfully, or that the book is
at all worthy of his learning or acuteness.

JAS. CROSSLEY.

Derby Municipal Seal (Vol. vii., p. 357.).--The "buck in the park," on the town seal of Derby,
is probably a punning allusion to the name of that place, anciently Deora-by or Deor-by, i.
e. the abode of the deer.

C. W. G.

Annueller (Vol. vii., pp. 358. 391.).--Bishop Ergham founded St. Anne's College in Wells, for
the maintenance of Societas (xiv.) Presbyterorum annuellarum Novæ Aulæ Wellensis. The annuellar
was a secular conduct, receiving a yearly stipend. These priests, probably, served his chantry
at Wells.

MACKENZIE WALCOTT, M.A.

Reverend Richard Midgley, Vicar of Rochdale (Vol. vii., p. 380).--The collection of the lives
of pious persons to which Dr. Whitaker refers, as containing a very interesting account of
Midgley, will undoubtedly be Samuel Clarke's Lives of Thirty-two English Divines. The passage,
which will scarcely be new to your correspondent, is at p. 68. of the life of "Master Richard
Rothwell" (Clarkes's Lives, edit. 1677, fol.), and a very pleasing passage it is, and one that
I might almost {439} be justified in extracting. Dr. Whitaker and Brook (Lives of the Puritans,
vol. ii. p. 163.) seem to be at variance with regard to the Midgleys, the former mentioning
only one, and the latter two, vicars of the family.

JAS. CROSSLEY.

Nose of Wax (Vol. vii., p. 158.).--Allow me to refer to a passage in "Ram Alley, or Merry Tricks,"
by Lodowick Barry (which is reprinted in the fifth volume of Dodsley's Old Plays), illustrative
of this term. In Act I. Sc. 1., Dash describes the law as

 "The kingdom's eye, by which she sees
  The acts and thoughts of men."

Whereupon Throate observes:

 "The kingdom's eye!
  I tell thee, fool, it is the kingdom's nose,
  By which she smells out all these rich transgressors;
  Nor is't of flesh, but merely made of wax,
  And 'tis within the power of us lawyers,
  To wrest this nose of wax which way we please."

This illustration was overlooked by Nares, to whose Glossary you refer.

C. H. COOPER.

Cambridge.

Canongate Marriages (Vol. v., p. 320.; Vol. vii., p. 67.).--The correspondent who expressed
his surprise some time ago at his Query on this subject not having called forth any remark
from your Scotch friends, will perhaps find the explanation of this result in the fact, that
in Scotland we are guided by the civil or Roman law on the subject of marriage; and consequently,
with us marriage is altogether a civil contract; and we need the intervention neither of clergyman,
Gretna blacksmith, or the equally disreputable Canongate coupler. The services of the last
two individuals are only sought for by you deluded southerns. All we require here is the agreement
or consent of the parties ("consensus non concubitus facit matrimonium"); and the legal questions
which arise have reference chiefly to the evidence of this consent. The agreement may be made
verbally, or in writing, before witnesses or not, as the parties choose. Or a marriage may
be constituted and proved merely by habit and repute, i. e. by the parties living together
as man and wife, and the man allowing the woman to be addressed as his wife. A promise of marriage,
followed by copula, also constitutes a marriage. But it would be out of place here to enter
into all the arcana of the Scotch law of marriage: suffice it to say, that it prevails equally
at John o' Groat's House and Aberdeen, as in the Canongate or at Gretna Green. A regular marriage
requires certain formalities, such as the publication of banns, &c. An irregular one is equally
good in law, and may be contracted in various ways, as above explained.

This law, though at first sight likely to lead to great abuses, really works well in practice;
and prevents the occurrence of those distressing cases, which not unfrequently happen in England,
of seduction under promise of marriage, and subsequent desertion.

SCOTUS.

Smock Marriages (Vol. vii., p. 191.).--According to Scotch law, the marriage of the father
and mother legitimises all children previously born, however old they may be. This is called
legitimisation per subsequens matrimonium, and is not unfrequently taken advantage of by elderly
gentlemen, who, after having passed the heyday of youth, wish to give their children a position,
and a legal right to inherit their property. Like the rule as to marriage above explained,
it is derived from the Roman or civil law. There are very few, I should rather say no, legal
fictions in the Scotch law of the nature alluded to by your correspondent.

SCOTUS.

Sculptured Emaciated Figures (Vol. v., p 497.; Vol. vi. passim).--In Dickinson's Antiquities
of Nottinghamshire, vol. i. p. 171., is a notice with an engraving of a tomb in Holme Church,
near Southwell, bearing a sculptured emaciated figure of a youth evidently in the last stage
of consumption, round which is this inscription: "Miseremini mei, miseremini mei, saltem vos
amici mei, quia manus Domini tetigit me."

J. P., JUN.

Do the Sun's Rays put out the Fire (Vol. vii., p. 285.).--It is known that solar light contains
three distinct kinds of rays, which, when decomposed by a prism, form as many spectra, varying
in properties as well as in position, viz. luminous, heating or calorific, and chemical or
actinic rays.

The greater part of the rays of heat are even less refrangible than the least refrangible rays
of light, while the chemical rays are more refrangible than either. The latter are so called
from their power of inducing many chemical changes, such as the decomposition of water by chlorine,
and the reactions upon which photographic processes depend.

The relative quantities of these several kinds of rays in sun-light varies with the time of
day, the season, and the latitude of any spot. In general, where the luminous and heating rays
are most abundant, the proportion of chemical rays is least; and, in fact, the two seem antagonistic
to each other. Thus, near the equator, the luminous and calorific rays being most powerful,
the chemical are feeble, as is shown by the length of time required for the production of photographic
pictures. Hence, also, June and July are the worst months for the practice of photography,
and better results are obtained before noon than after.

It is precisely for a similar reason that the combustion of an ordinary fire, being strictly
a chemical change, is retarded whenever the sun's heating and luminous rays are most powerful,
as during bright {440} sunshine, and that observe our fires to burn more briskly in summer
than winter; in fact, that apparently "the sun's rays put out the fire."

A. W. W.

Univ. Coll., London.

Spontaneous Combustion (Vol. vii., p. 286.).--A most interesting discussion of this question
is to be found in Liebig's Familiar Letters upon Chemistry.

That chemist proves conclusively:--1. That of the cases adduced none is well authenticated,
while in most it is admitted that the victims were drunkards, and that generally a candle or
lamp was in the room, and after the alleged combustion was found turned over. 2. That spontaneous
combustion is absolutely impossible, the human frame containing 75 or 80 per cent. of water;
and since flesh, when saturated with alcohol, is not consumed upon the application of a light,
the alcohol burning off first, the causes assigned to account for the spontaneous ignition
are à priori extremely improbable.

A. W. WILLS.

Univ. Coll., London.

Ecclesia Anglicana (Vol. vii., p. 12.).--This has always been the appellation of the Church
of England, just as much before the Reformation as after. I copy for G. R. M. one rather forcible
sentence from the articles of a provincial synod, holden A.D. 1257:

    "Et super istis articulis prænotatis fecit Bonifacius, Cant. Arch.
    suorum suffraganeorum sibi subditorum universorum, prælatorum pariter
    et cleri procuratorum, convocationem isto anno apud Londonias semel et
    secundo, propter gravamina et oppressiones, de die in diem per summum
    pontificem et D. Henricum Regem Ecclesiæ Anglicanæ
    irrogatas."--Wilkin's Concilia Mag. Brit. et Hib., vol. i. p. 726.

For other examples of the ante-reformational use of Ecclesia Anglicana, I can give him so large
a reference as to Wilkins' book, passim; to the Writs for Parliament and Mandates for Convocation
contained in the Appendix to Wake's State of the Church and Clergy; and to the extracts from
The Annals of Waverley, and other old chronicles, quoted in Hody's History of English Councils
and Convocations.

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

Wyle Cop (Vol. iv., pp. 116. 243. 509.; Vol. v., p. 44.; Vol. vi., p. 65.).--The summit of
a steep hill in the town of Shrewsbury bears the name of The Wyle Cop. I think that these are
two Welsh words, Gwyl Cop, meaning watch mound, slightly altered. Gop, near Newmarket in Flintshire,
has a longer Welsh name, which is written by English people Coperleni. This, when correctly
written, means, the mound of the light or fire-beacon. Mole Cop, the name of a lofty hill near
Congleton, appears to be a slight corruption of the Welsh words Moel y Cop, the mountain of
the mound. There is another lofty hill in Staffordshire called Stiles Cop. It seems probable
that on both of these hills mounds may have been made in ancient times for the erection of
fire-beacons. It would appear that Dr. Plot did not understand the Welsh language, as he has
stated that he thought, in these instances, the word Cop meant a mountain.

N. W. S. (2.)

Chaucer (Vol. vii., p. 356).--No foreign original has ever been found for Chaucer's "House
of Fame." Warton fancied that it had been translated or paraphrased from the Provençal, but
could adduce no proof that it had. Old Geoffrey may have found the groundwork somewhere, in
the course of his multifarious reading; but the main portion of the structure is evidently
the work of his own hands, as the number of personal details and circumstances would tend to
indicate. The forty lines comprising the "Lai of Marie," which Chaucer has worked up into the
"Nonnes Preestes Tale" of some seven hundred lines, are printed in Tyrwhitt's Introductory
Discourse to the Canterbury Tales, and will be sufficient to show what use he made of the raw
material at his disposal. We may fairly presume that Emerson never took the trouble to investigate
the matter, but contented himself with snatching up his materials from the nearest quarry,
and then tumbling them out to the public.

J. M. B.

Tunbridge Wells.

Campvere, Privileges of (Vol. vii., p. 262.).--J. D. S. asks, "What were these privileges,
and whence was the term Campvere derived?"

In Scotland there exists an ancient institution called "The Convention of Royal Burghs," which
still meets annually in Edinburgh, under the fixed presidency of the Lord Provost of that city.
It is a representative body, consisting of delegates elected by the town councils of the royal
burghs (not boroughs) of Scotland; and their business is to attend to such public measures
as may affect the general interests of their constituents. In former times, however their powers
and duties were of far more importance than they are now. The Convention seems to have exercised
a general superintendence of the foreign trade of the kingdom. With a view to the promotion
of that trade, they used to enter into commercial treaties, or staple contracts as they were
called, with the commercial cities of the Continent; and I have now before me one of these
staple contracts, made with the city of Antwerp in 1540; and another with the city of Middleburg,
in Zeeland, in 1541; but latterly they seem to have confined themselves to the town of Campvere,
in Zeeland (island of Walcheren). In all these contracts it was stipulated {441} that the Scottish
traders should enjoy certain privileges, which were considered of such importance that the
crown appointed a conservator of them. The last of these staple contracts was made with Campvere
in the year 1747; but soon afterwards the increasing prosperity of Scotland, and the participation
of its burgesses in the foreign trade of England, rendered such partial arrangements useless,
and the contracts and the privileges have long since been reckoned among the things that were.
The office of conservator degenerated into a sinecure. It was held for some time by the Rev.
John Home, author of the tragedy of Douglas, who died in 1808; and afterwards by a Sir Alex.
Lenier, whose name is found in the Edinburgh Almanack as "Conservator at Campvere" till 1847,
when the office and the officer seem to have expired together.

J. L.

Sir Gilbert Gerard (Vol. v., pp. 511. 571.).--In addition to the information I formerly sent
you in answer to MR. SPEDDING'S inquiry, I am now enabled to state two facts, which greatly
reduce the period within which the date of Sir Gilbert Gerard's death may be fixed. Among the
records in Carlton Ride, is an enrolment of his account as Custos Domûs Conversorum from January
29, 34 Eliz. (1592) to January 29, 35 Eliz. (1593). And a search in Doctors' Commons has resulted
in the discovery, that Sir Gilbert's will was proved, not, as Dugdale states, in April, 1592,
but on April 6, 1593. He died therefore between January 29 and April 6, 1593.

Dugdale mentions that there is no epitaph on his monument.

EDWARD FOSS.

Mistletoe (Vol. vii., p. 270.).--I wish to mention that the mistletoe has been tried at the
Botanic Gardens belonging to Trinity College, Dublin; and, after flourishing for some years,
it died away. Indeed, I think it has been repeatedly tried there, but without eventual success.

Y. S. M.

Dublin.

Wild Plants and their Names (Vol. vii., p. 233.).--Cowslip, "Palsy Wort." Culpepper says:

    "Because they strengthen the brain and nerves, and remedy palsies, the
    Greeks gave them the name paralysis." "The flowers preserved, or
    conserved, and the quantity of a nutmeg taken every morning, is a
    sufficient dose for inward disorders."

For the ointment he gives the following receipt:

    "Bruise the flowers; and to two handfuls of these, add a pound of
    hog's grease dried. Put it in a stone pot, covered with paper, and set
    it in the sun or a warm place three or four days to melt. Take it out
    and boil it a little; strain it out when hot; pressing it out very hard
    in a press. To this grease add as many herbs as before, and repeat the
    whole process, if you wish the ointment strong.--Yet this I tell you,
    the fuller of juice the herbs are, the sooner will your ointment be
    strong; the last time you boil it, boil it so long till your herbs be
    crisp, and the juice consumed; then strain it, pressing it hard in a
    press; and to every pound of ointment, add two ounces of turpentine,
    and as much wax."

CERIDWEN.

Coninger or Coningry, Coneygar or Conygre (Vol. vii., pp. 182. 241. 368.).--There are many
fields in the midland counties which bear the name of conigree. In some instances they are
in the vicinity of manor-houses. The British name of a rabbit is cwningen, plural cwning. That
of a rabbit warren is cwning-gaer, that is, literally, rabbits' camp. The term coneygar is
so like this, that it may be supposed to have been derived from it.

N. W. S. (2)

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, ETC.

It would be difficult to find a book better calculated to prove the good service which the
Camden Society is rendering to historical literature, than the one which has just been circulated
among its members. The work, which is entitled Letters and Papers of the Verney Family down
to the end of the year 1639. S. A., is of direct historical value, although at the first glance
it would seem rather to illustrate the fortunes of the Verneys than the history of the country.
For, as the editor well observes--

    "The most valuable materials, even for general history, are to be found
    among the records of private and personal experience. More true
    knowledge of the spirit of an age, more real acquaintance with the
    feelings and actual circumstances of a people, may be gleaned from a
    delineation of the affairs of a single family, than from studied
    historical composition. The one is the expression of cotemporary and
    spontaneous feeling, and, although limited, is unquestionably genuine;
    the other is a deduction from knowledge, imperfect even when most
    extensive, and too frequently coloured by the feelings and prejudices
    of a subsequent and altered period."

But, valuable as are the materials which the liberality of Sir Harry Verney has placed at the
disposal of the Society, it is obvious that they are of a nature which a publisher might hesitate
to produce, even if their owner, which is very doubtful, had thought fit to place them in the
hands of one for that purpose. Hence the utility of a society which has influence to draw from
the muniment rooms of our old families, such materials as those found in the present volume,
and which, strung together with the agreeable and instructive narrative with which Mr. Bruce
has accompanied them, will secure for the Verney Papers the character of being one of the very
best, as well as of the most amusing books, which the Camden Society has given to the world. {442}

Having had an opportunity of being present at the private view of Messrs. De la Motte and Cundall's
Photographic Institution, in New Bond Street, we were highly pleased with the interesting specimens
of the art there collected, which in our opinion far exceed any similar productions which have
come before the public. We strongly advise our readers to visit this exhibition, that they
may see the rapid progress which the art is making, and how applicable it is to their archæological
pursuits.

BOOKS RECEIVED.--The Vale Royal of England, or the County Palatine of Chester Illustrated.
Abridged and revised, &c., by Thomas Hughes. The title-page of this little volume puts forth
its claim to the attention of Cheshire antiquaries.--The Family Shakspeare, by Thomas Bowdler, Vol.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE. Vol. I. and II.

  ARCHÆOLOGIA. Vols. III., IV., V., VII. Boards.

  MARTYN'S PLANTÆ CANTABRIGIENSES. 12mo. London, 1763.

Owing to a necessity for going to press this week at an unusually early period, that the present
Number might be included in the Monthly Part, we are compelled to omit replies to many Correspondents.

L. A. M. (Great Yarmouth) will find several Notes respecting the means of discovering the bodies
of the drowned in our 4th Vol., pp. 148. 251. 297.

H. O. N. (Brighton). In our own practice we have never obtained pictures with the agreeable
colour which is produced by the iodide of silver, when iodide of ammonium has been used. The
flaking of the collodion would indicate an excess of iodide, and is often cured by the addition
of about twenty drops of alcohol to an ounce of collodion. The feathery appearance is difficult
to comprehend, without seeing a specimen. If you are using glass which has been previously
used, the most minute remains of iron would cause a discoloration. Muriatic acid is the most
effectual remedy for cleaning glass so used. It may be procured at 2½d. per lb., and should
be diluted with three parts of water.

AN AMATEUR (Oxford). We are not of opinion that Mr. Talbot could restrain any one from taking
collodion portraits, as patentee of the Talbotype process. It is done in many parts of London
daily without any permission.--See Times' Advertisements, &c.

C. E. F. We think you use too strong a solution of the ammonio-nitrate of silver: thirty grains
to the ounce of water, and then redissolved with the strong liq. ammon., give to us most satisfactory
result,--the paper being prepared before with chloride of barium, chloride of sodium, and chloride
of ammonia, of each half a drachm to the quart of water, in which half an ounce of mannite,
or sugar of milk, has been previously dissolved. When sufficiently printed, put it into the
hypo. sulph. solution, without previous immersion.

H. L. L. We shall be happy to render you the best assistance we can, if you will communicate
with us again. For iodized paper we may safely refer you to our advertising columns.

       *       *       *       *       *

STEEL PENS.--PARTRIDGE & COZEN'S STEEL PENS are the best; made of the purest steel, all selected
and warranted. Fine or medium points, 1s. 3d. per box of twelve dozen; broad ditto, 1s. 6d.;
extra broad, 1s. 6d., a very easy pen--will write with comfort on brown paper; correspondence
pen, 1s. 3d. per box--this pen adapts itself to any hand. P. & C. are the original makers,
and although there are many imitations, it is still unequalled. Best magnum bonums, 3s. 6d.
per gross; silver pens, 1s., and gold ditto, 2s. each, warranted; patent holders, fit any pen,
6d. dozen, or 5s. gross. A liberal allowance to shippers and the trade. Samples per post, on
receipt of six stamps.

PARTRIDGE & COZEN'S Cheap Stationery Warehouses, 127. and 128. Chancery Lane.

       *       *       *       *       *

JUST PUBLISHED.--A CATALOGUE OF CURIOUS BOOKS, by J. CROZIER, 5. New Turnstile, near Lincoln's
Inn Fields, Holborn. Catalogues sent on receipt of One Postage Stamp. {443}

       *       *       *       *       *

PREPARING FOR IMMEDIATE PUBLICATION.

PHOTOGRAPHIC NOTES:

Comprising Plain Directions for the Practice of Photography, including the Collodion Process
on Glass; the Paper and Wax-Paper Processes; Printing from Glass and Paper Negatives, &c.

By DR. DIAMOND, F.S.A.

With Notes on the Application of Photography to Archæology, &c.,

By WILLIAM J. THOMS, F.S.A.

London: GEORGE BELL, 186, Fleet Street. {444}

       *       *       *       *       *

BOHN'S STANDARD LIBRARY FOR MAY.

NORWAY and its SCENERY, Comprising PRICE'S JOURNAL, with large Additions, and a ROAD-BOOK.
Edited by THOS. FORESTER, Esq., with 22 Illustrations, beautifully engraved on steel by Lucas.

HUMPHREY'S COIN COLLECTOR'S MANUAL: a Popular Introduction to the Study of Coins, Ancient and
Modern; with elaborate Indexes, and numerous highly-finished Engravings on wood and steel.

PAULI'S LIFE OF ALFRED THE GREAT, translated from the German. To which is appended, ALFRED'S
ANGLO-SAXON VERSION of OROSIUS, with a Literal English Translation interpaged, Notes, and an
Anglo-Saxon Alphabet and Glossary, by B. THORPE, Esq.

GERVINUS' INTRODUCTION to his HISTORY of the 19th CENTURY, translated from the German, with
a Memoir of the Author.

       *       *       *       *       *

KENNEDY'S SELECTIONS of CLASSICAL POETRY, being principally Translations from English Poets.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. COLLIER'S NEW TEXT OF SHAKSPEARE.

Now ready, in one volume super-royal 8vo., 21s., cloth gilt, 42s., in morocco, by Hayday; handsomely
printed in a clear readable type, with portrait, vignette, and fac-simile,

THE PLAYS OF SHAKSPEARE. The Text regulated by the old copies, and by the recently discovered
folio of 1632; containing early manuscript emendations. Edited by J. PAYNE COLLIER, ESQ., F.S.A.

WHITTAKER & CO., Ave Maria Lane.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. ARNOLD'S ELEMENTARY LATIN BOOKS.

In 12mo., price 3s., a new edition of

HENRY'S FIRST LATIN BOOK.

*** The object of this Work (which is founded on the principles of imitation and frequent repetition)
is to enable the pupil to do exercises from the first day of his beginning his Accidence. It
is recommended by the Oxford Diocesan Board of Education as an useful Work for Middle or Commercial
Schools; and adopted at the National Society's Training College at Chelsea.

By THOMAS KERCHEVER ARNOLD, M.A., Rector of Lyndon, and Late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge.

RIVINGTON'S, St. Paul's Church Yard, and Waterloo Place; and SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, & CO.

Also, by the same Author,

1. A SECOND LATIN BOOK and PRACTICAL GRAMMAR. Intended as a Sequel to Henry's First Latin Book.
Fifth Edition. 4s.

2. A FIRST VERSE BOOK; being an easy Introduction to the Mechanism of the Latin Hexameter and
Pentameter. Fifth Edition. 2s.

3. COMPANION TO THE FIRST VERSE BOOK, containing additional Exercises. 1s.

4. ECLOGÆ OVIDIANÆ; with ENGLISH NOTES, &c. Eighth Edition. 2s. 6d. This Work is from the Fifth
Part of the "Lateinisches Elementarbuch" of Professors Jacobs and Döring, which has an immense
circulation on the Continent and in America.

5. ECLOGÆ OVIDIANÆ, Part II., containing Selections from the "Metamorphoses." With ENGLISH
NOTES. 5s.

6. HISTORIÆ ANTIQUÆ EPITOME, from "Cornelius Nepos," "Justin," &c. With English Notes, Rules
for Construing, Questions, Geographical Lists, &c. Fifth Edition. 4s.

7. CORNELIUS NEPOS, Part I. With Critical Questions and Answers, and an Imitative Exercise
on each Chapter. Third Edition. 4s.

       *       *       *       *       *

This day, Foolscap Octavo, price 7s. 6d.

THE POEMS OF GOETHE, Translated in the Original Metres. By EDGAR ALFRED BOWRING. Preceded by
a Sketch of Goethe's Life.

Also, translated by Mr. Bowring, 6s.

THE POEMS OF SCHILLER COMPLETE.

London: JOHN W. PARKER & SON. West Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CAMDEN SOCIETY for the Publication of Early Historical and Literary Remains.

The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Freemasons' Tavern, Great Queen Street, on Monday,
May 2nd, at 4 o'clock. The LORD BRAYBROOKE, the President, in the Chair.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following are the Publications of the Society for the year 1852-53:

I. The Camden Miscellany, Volume the Second, containing:--1. Account of the Expenses of John
of Brabant, and Henry and Thomas of Lancaster, 1292-3. 2. Household Account of the Princess
Elizabeth 1551-2. 3. The Request and Suite of a True-hearted Englishman, written by William
Cholmeley, 1553. 4. Discovery of the Jesuits' College at Clerkenwell in March, 1627-8. 5. Trelawny
Papers; and 6. Autobiography of William Taswell. D.D.

II. Letters and Papers of the Verney Family down to the end of the year 1639. S.A.

III. Edited by the REV. JAMES MORTON, B.D., Prebendary of Lincoln. (Nearly ready.)

The Subscription to the Society is 1l. per annum, which becomes due on the 1st of May. Parliament
Street, Westminster, by whom the Subscriptions are received.

       *       *       *       *       *

This Day, Seventh Edition, revised, 5s.

VIEW OF THE SCRIPTURE REVELATIONS RESPECTING A FUTURE STATE.

By the same Author,

LECTURES ON THE CHARACTERS OF OUR LORD'S APOSTLES. 3s. 6d.

LECTURES ON THE SCRIPTURE REVELATIONS RESPECTING GOOD AND EVIL ANGELS. 3s. 6d.

London: JOHN W. PARKER & SON, West Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now publishing, in post 8vo., price 5s. cloth.

THE LEARNED SOCIETIES AND PRINTING CLUBS OF THE UNITED KINGDOM: being an Account of their respective
Origin, History, Objects, and Constitution. By the REV. A. HUME, LL.D. With a SUPPLEMENT, containing
all the recently established Societies and Printing Clubs, and COMPLETE LISTS OF THEIR PUBLICATIONS
to the present Time, by A. I. EVANS. This Work will be found of great utility to all Literary
Men, Public Libraries, &c.

G. WILLIS, Piazza, Covent Garden. 1853.

