Leicester and the reputed Poisoners of his Time (Vol. ii., pp. 9. 92.).--This subject receives
interesting illustration in the Memoirs of Gervas Holles, who at some length describes the
seduction of the Lady Sheffield, by Leicester, at Belvoir Castle, while attending the Queen
on her Progress. A letter from the Earl to the lady of his love, contained the suspicious intimation--

    "That he had not been unmindful in removing that obstacle
    which hindered the full fruition of their contentments; that he
    had endeavoured one expedient already which had failed, but he
    would lay another which he doubted not would hit more sure."

This letter the Lady Sheffield accidentally dropped from her pocket; and being picked up and
given to the Lord Sheffield by his sister Holles, he read it with anger and amazement. That
night he parted beds, and the next day houses; meditating in what manner he might take honourable
and just revenge. Having resolved, he posted up to London to effect it; but the discovery had
preceded him to the knowledge of Leicester, who finding a necessity to be quick, bribed an
Italian physician ("whose name," says Holles, "I have forgotten") in whom Lord Sheffield had
great confidence, to poison him, which was immediately effected after his arrival in London.
Leicester, after cohabiting with the Lady Sheffield for some time, married the widow of the
Earl of Essex, who, it is thought, says Holles, "served him in his own kind, every way."

In the suit afterwards instituted by Sir Robert Dudley, with the view of establishing his legitimacy,
the Lady Sheffield was examined, and swore {303} to a private marriage with the Earl of Leicester,
but that she had been prevailed on, by threats and pecuniary largesses, to deny the marriage,
as Queen Elizabeth was desirous that Lord Leicester should marry the widow of the Earl of Essex.

One curious circumstance arises out of the revival of these dark doings. Are the particular
drugs employed by Leicester's Italian physician "in removing obstacles" now known and in operation?
By a remarkable coincidence, in a case of supposed poisoning at Cheltenham, some time since,
the intended victim escaped with the loss of his hair and his nails.

H.K.S.C.

What is the correct Prefix of Mayors? (Vol. i., p. 380.)--In Leicester the usage has always
been to designate the chief magistrate "The worshipful the Mayor," which, I believe, is the
style used in boroughs. In cities, and places specially privileged, "Right worshipful" are
the terms employed.

JAYTEE.

Marks of Cadency (Vol. ii., p. 248.).--The label of the Prince of Wales has, from the time
of Edward III. up to the present time, been of three points argent, and not charged.

F.E.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANEOUS.

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

Although we do not usually record in our columns the losses which literature sustains from
time to time, we cannot permit the death of Thomas Amyot, the learned Director of the Camden
Society, and for so many years the Treasurer of the Society of Antiquaries, to pass without
rendering our grateful tribute to the memory of one of the most intelligent and kindest-hearted
men that ever breathed; from whom we, in common with so many others, when entering on our literary
career, received the most friendly assistance, and the most encouraging sympathy.

Every fifty years commences a discussion of the great question when the current century, or
half century, properly begins. We have just seen this in the numerous Queries, Answers, Replies,
and Rejoinders upon the subject which have appeared in the columns of the daily and weekly
press; the only regular treatise being the essay upon Ancient and Modern Usage in Reckoning,
by professor De Morgan, in the Companion to the Almanack for the present year. This Essay is
opposed to the idea of a "zero year," and one of the advocates of that system of computation
has, therefore, undertaken a defence of the zero principle, which he pronounces, "when properly
understood, is undoubtedly the most correct basis of reckoning," in a small volume entitled,
An Examination of the Century Question, and in which he maintains the point for which he is
contending with considerable learning and ingenuity. All who are interested in the question
at issue, will be at once amused and instructed by it.

Mr. Charles Knight announces a new edition of his Pictorial Shakespeare under the title of
the National Edition; to contain the whole of the Notes, Illustrations, &c., thoroughly revised;
and which, while it will be printed in a clear and beautiful type across the page, and not
in double columns, will have the advantage of being much cheaper than the edition which he
originally put forth.

The Declaration of the Fathers of the Councell of Trent concerning the going into Churches
at such Times as Hereticall Service is said or Heresy preached, &c., is a reprint of a very
rare tract, which possesses some present interest, as it bears upon the statement which has
been of late years much insisted on by Mr. Perceval and other Anglican controversialists, that
for the first twelve years of Elizabeth's reign, and until Pius V.'s celebrated Bull, Regnans
in Excelsis, the Roman Catholics of England were in the habit of frequenting the Reformed worship.
Chancery Lane) Catalogue No. 13. of Cheap Books, many Rare and Curious; R. Kimpton's (31. Wardour
Street, Soho) Catalogue No. 29. of Second-hand Books in good Condition at very reduced Prices.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES

WANTED TO PURCHASE.

CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY POLL-BOOKS FOR 1780, 1784, 1790, and
  1829.

OXFORD UNIVERSITY POLL-BOOKS for 1750, 1768, 1806.

BEN JONSON by CLIFFORD. 8vo. Vols.

We are unavoidably compelled to postpone numerous NOTES, QUERIES, AND REPLIES: indeed we see
no way of clearing off our accumulation of REPLIES without the publication of an extra Number,
to be devoted exclusively to the numerous Answers which we now have waiting for insertion.

GUTCH'S Literary and Scientific Regsiter and Almanack, advertised in our last No., is for 1851
not 1850.

Mr. G.B. RICHARDSON would oblige us by forwarding the additional verses of "Long Lonkin" for
our correspondent SELEUCUS.

A CONSTANT SUBSCRIBER will find the line,

  "Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast,"

in Congreve's Mourning Bride.

JANUS DOUSA. In our next No.

MEDICUS, who inquires respecting the origin of the proverbial saying,
"Quem Deus vult perdere," is referred to our First Volume, pp. 347.
351. 421. and 476. The original line reads "Quem Jupiter vult," and is
Barnes' translation of a fragment of Euripides. COCHRANES'S YOUNG ITALY.
  IX.

THE ARCHITECTURAL QUARTERLY REVIEW. A Literary Periodical devoted to Works appertaining to
the Art and Science of Architecture. Prospectuses may be obtained from the Publisher. Letters
for the Editor, and books, drawings, models, and specimens, to be addressed to the care of
the Publisher.

GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Royal 4to., cloth, price 2l. 2s. By FRANCIS T. DOLLMAN, Architect.

GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

To be completed in Four Parts, Parts I. and II., price 5s. each plain; 7s. 6d. coloured.

Parts III. and IV., completing the Work, are in preparation, and will be published shortly.

GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE EDINBURGH REVIEW, No CLXXXVIII., will be publishd on THURSDAY, October 10th, 1850.

