"Fourscore, and so hale and strong! I have known men half your age not half so vigorous and
alert. Why, you may live to be a hundred."

"I think I shall, probably longer. Of course barring accidents, and if I continue to avoid
a peril which has been hanging over me for half a century or so, and from which I have several
times escaped only by the skin of my teeth."

"And what is the peril, Mr. Fortescue?"

"Assassination."

"Assassination!"

"Yes, assassination. I told you a short time ago that I was once hunted by a pack of hounds.
I am hunted now--have been hunted for two generations--by a family of murderers."

The thought occurred to me--and not for the first time--that Mr. Fortescue was either mad or
a Munchausen, and I looked at him curiously; but neither in that calm, powerful, self-possessed
face, nor in the steady gaze of those keen dark eyes, could I detect the least sign of incipient
insanity or a boastful spirit.

"You are quite mistaken," he said, with one of his enigmatic smiles. "I am not mad; and I have
lived too long either to cherish illusions or conjure up imaginary dangers."

"I--I beg your pardon, Mr. Fortescue--I had no intention," I stammered, quite taken aback by
the accuracy with which he had read, or guessed, my thoughts--"I had no intention to cast a
doubt on what you said. But who are these people that seek your life? and why don't you inform
the police?"

"The police! How could the police help me?" exclaimed Mr. Fortescue, with a gesture of disdain,
"Besides, life would not be worth having at the price of being always under police protection,
like an evicting Irish landlord. But let us change the subject; we have talked quite enough
about myself. I want to talk about you."

A very few minutes sufficed to put Mr. Fortescue in possession of all the information he desired.
He already knew something about me, and as I had nothing to conceal, I answered all his questions
without reserve.

"Don't you think you are rather wasting your life?" he asked, after I had answered the last
of them.

"I am enjoying it."

"Very likely. People generally do enjoy life when they are young. Hunting is all very well
as an amusement, but to have no other object in life seems--what shall we say?--just a little
frivolous, don't you think?"

"Well, perhaps it does; but I mean, after a while, to buy a practice and settle down."

"But in the mean time your medical knowledge must be growing rather rusty. I have heard physicians
say that it is only after they have obtained their degree that they begin to learn their profession.
And the practice you get on board these ships cannot amount to much."

"You are quite right," I said, frankly, for my conscience was touched. "I am, as you say, living
too much for the present. I know less than I knew when I left Guy's. I could not pass my 'final'
over again to save my life. You are quite right: I must turn over a new leaf."

"I am glad to hear you say so, the more especially as I have a proposal to make; and as I make
it quite as much in my own interest as in yours, you will incur no obligation in accepting
it. I want you to become an inmate of my house, help me in my laboratory, and act as my secretary
and domestic physician, and when I am away from home, as my representative. You will have free
quarters, of course; my stable will be at your disposal for hunting purposes, and you may go
sometimes to London to attend lectures and do practical work at your hospital. As for salary--you
can fix it yourself, when you have ascertained by actual experience the character of your work.
What do you say?"

Mr. Fortescue put this question as if he had no doubt about my answer, and I fulfilled his
expectation by answering promptly in the affirmative. The proposal seemed in every way to my
advantage, and was altogether to my liking; and even had it been less so I should have accepted
it, for what I had just heard greatly whetted my curiosity, and made me more desirous than
ever to know the history of the extraordinary man with whom I had so strangely come in contact,
and ascertain the secret of his wealth.

The same day I wrote to Alston announcing the dissolution of our partnership, and leaving him
to deal with the horses at Red Chimneys as he might think fit.

CHAPTER IV.

A RESCUE.

My curiosity was rather long in being gratified, and but for a very strange occurrence, which
I shall presently describe, probably never would have been gratified. Even after I had been
a member of Mr. Fortescue's household for several months, I knew little more of his antecedents
and circumstances than on the day when he made me the proposal which I have just mentioned.
If I attempted to lead up to the subject, he would either cleverly evade it or say bluntly
that he preferred to talk about something else. Save as to matters that did not particularly
interest me, Ramon was as reticent as his master; and as Geist had only been with Mr. Fortescue
during the latter's residence at Kingscote, his knowledge, or, rather, his ignorance was on
a par with my own.

Mr. Fortescue's character was as enigmatic as his history was obscure. He seemed to be destitute
both of kinsfolk and friends, never made any allusion to his family, neither noticed women
nor discussed them. Politics and religion he equally ignored, and, so far as might appear,
had neither foibles nor fads. On the other hand, he had three passions--science, horses, and
horticulture, and his knowledge was almost encyclopædic. He was a great reader, master of many
languages, and seemed to have been everywhere and seen all in the world that was worth seeing.
His wealth appeared to be unlimited, but how he made it or where he kept it I had no idea.
All I knew was that whenever money was wanted it was forthcoming, and that he signed a check
for ten pounds and ten thousand with equal indifference. As he conducted his private correspondence
himself, my position as secretary gave me no insight into his affairs. My duties consisted
chiefly in corresponding with tradesmen, horse-dealers, and nursery gardeners, and noting the
results of chemical experiments.

Mr. Fortescue was very abstemious, and took great care of his health, and if he was really
verging on eighty (which I very much doubted), I thought he might not improbably live to be
a hundred and ten and even a hundred and twenty. He drank nothing, whatever, neither tea, coffee,
cocoa, nor any other beverage, neither water nor wine, always quenching his thirst with fruit,
of which he ate largely. So far as I knew, the only liquid that ever passed his lips was an
occasional liquor-glass of a mysterious decoction which he prepared himself and kept always
under lock and key. His breakfast, which he took every morning at seven, consisted of bread
and fruit.

He ate very little animal food, limiting himself for the most part to fish and fowl, and invariably
spent eight or nine hours of the twenty-four in bed. We often discussed physiology, therapeutics,
and kindred subjects, of which his knowledge was so extensive as to make me suspect that some
time in his life he had belonged to the medical profession.

"The best physicians I ever met," he once observed, "are the Callavayas of the Andes--if the
preservation and prolongation of human life is the test of medical skill. Among the Callavayas
the period of youth is thirty years; a man is not held to be a man until he reaches fifty,
and he only begins to be old at a hundred."

"Was it among the Callavayas that you learned the secret of long life, Mr. Fortescue?" I asked.

"Perhaps," he answered, with one of his peculiar smiles; and then he started me by saying that
he would never be a "lean and slippered pantaloon." When health and strength failed him he
should cease to live.

"You surely don't mean that you will commit suicide?" I exclaimed, in dismay.

"You may call it what you like. I shall do as the Fiji Islanders and some tribes of Indians
do, in similar circumstances--retire to a corner and still the beatings of my heart by an effort
of will."

"But is that possible?"

"I have seen it done, and I have done it myself--not, of course, to the point of death, but
so far as to simulate death. I once saved my life in that way."

"Was that when you were hunted, Mr. Fortescue?"

"No, it was not. Let us go to the stables. I want to see you ride Regina over the jumps."

Mr. Fortescue had caused to be arranged in the park a miniature steeple-chase course about
a mile round, on which newly-acquired hunters were always tried, and the old ones regularly
exercised. He generally made a point of being present on these occasions, sometimes riding
over the course himself. If a horse, bought as a hunter, failed to justify its character by
its performance it was invariably returned.

Sometimes Ramon gave us an exhibition of his skill as a gaucho. One of the wildest of the horses
would be let loose in the park, and the old soldier, armed with a lasso and mounted on an animal
trained by himself, and equipped with a South American saddle, would follow and try to "rope"
the runaway, Mr. Fortescue, Rawlings, and myself riding after him. It was "good fun," but I
fancy Mr. Fortescue regarded this sport, as he regarded hunting, less as an amusement than
as a means of keeping him in good health and condition.

Regina (a recent purchase) was tried and, I think, found wanting. I recall the instance merely
because it is associated in my mind with an event which, besides affecting a momentous change
in my relations with Mr. Fortescue and greatly influencing my own fortune, rendered possible
the writing of this book.

The trial over, Mr. Fortescue told me, somewhat abruptly, that he intended to leave home in
an hour, and should be away for several days. As he walked toward the house, I inquired if
there was anything he would like me to look after during his absence, whereupon he mentioned
several chemical and electrical experiments, which he wished me to continue and note the results.
He requested me, further, to open all letters--save such as were marked private or bore foreign
postmarks--and answer so many of them as, without his instructions, I might be able to do.
For the rest, I was to exercise a general supervision, especially over the stables and gardens.
As for purely domestic concerns, Geist was so excellent a manager that his master trusted him
without reserve.

When Mr. Fortescue came down-stairs, equipped for his journey, I inquired when he expected
to return, and on what day he would like the carriage to meet him at the station. I thought
he might tell me where he was going; but he did not take the hint.

"If it rains I will telegraph," he said; "if fine, I shall probably walk; it is only a couple
of miles."

Mr. Fortescue, as he always did when he went outside his park (unless he was mounted), took
with him a sword-stick, a habit which I thought rather ridiculous, for, though he was an essentially
sane man, I had quite made up my mind that his fear of assassination was either a fancy or a fad.

After my patron's departure I worked for a while in the laboratory; and an hour before dinner
I went for a stroll in the park, making, for no reason in particular, toward the principal
entrance. As I neared it I heard voices in dispute, and on reaching the gates I found the lodge-keeper
engaged in a somewhat warm altercation with an Italian organ-grinder and another fellow of
the same kidney, who seemed to be his companion.

The lodge-keepers had strict orders to exclude from the park all beggars without exception,
and all and sundry who produced music by turning a handle. Real musicians, however, were freely
admitted, and often generously rewarded.

The lodge-keeper in question (an old fellow with a wooden leg) had not been able to make the
two vagabonds in question understand this. They insisted on coming in, and the lodge-keeper
said that if I had not appeared he verily believed they would have entered in spite of him.
They seemed to know very little English; but as I knew a little Italian, which I eked out with
a few significant gestures, I speedily enlightened them, and they sheered off, looking daggers,
and muttering what sounded like curses.

The man who carried the organ was of the usual type--short, thick-set, hairy, and unwashed.
His companion, rather to my surprise, was just the reverse--tall, shapely, well set up, and
comparatively well clad; and with his dark eyes, black mustache, broad-brimmed hat, and red
tie loosely knotted round his brawny throat, he looked decidedly picturesque.

On the following day, as I was going to the stables (which were a few hundred yards below the
house) I found my picturesque Italian in the back garden, singing a barcarole to the accompaniment
of a guitar. But as he had complied with the condition of which I had informed him, I made
no objection. So far from that I gave him a shilling, and as the maids (who were greatly taken
with his appearance) got up a collection for him and gave him a feed, he did not do badly.

A few days later, while out riding, I called at the station for an evening paper, and there
he was again, "touching his guitar," and singing something that sounded very sentimental.

"That fellow is like a bad shilling," I said to one of the porters--"always turning up."

"He is never away. I think he must have taken it into his head to live here."

"What does he do?"

"Oh, he just hangs about, and watches the trains, as if he had never seen any before. I suppose
there are none in the country he comes from. Between whiles he sometimes plays on his banjo
and sings a bit for us. I cannot quite make him out; but as he is very quiet and well-behaved,
and never interferes with nobody, it is no business of mine."

Neither was it any business of mine; so after buying my paper I dismissed the subject from
my mind and rode on to Kingscote.

As a rule, I found the morning papers quite as much as I could struggle with; but at this time
a poisoning case was being tried which interested me so much that while it lasted I sent for
or fetched an evening paper every afternoon. The day after my conversation with the porter
I adopted the former course, the day after that I adopted the latter, and, contrary to my usual
practice, I walked.

There were two ways from Kingscote to the station; one by the road, the other by a little-used
footpath. I went by the road, and as I was buying my paper at Smith's bookstall the station-master
told me that Mr. Fortescue had returned by a train which came in about ten minutes previously.

"He must be walking home by the fields, then, or we should have met," I said; and pocketing
my paper, I set off with the intention of overtaking him.

As I have already observed, the field way was little frequented, most people preferring the
high-road as being equally direct and, except in the height of summer, both dryer and less
lonesome.

After traversing two or three fields the foot-path ran through a thick wood, once part of the
great forest of Essex, then descending into a deep hollow, it made a sudden bend and crossed
a rambling old brook by a dilapidated bridge.

As I reached the bend I heard a shout, and looking down I saw what at first sight (the day
being on the wane and the wood gloomy) I took to be three men amusing themselves with a little
cudgel-play. But a second glance showed me that something much more like murder than cudgel-play
was going on; and shortening my Irish blackthorn, I rushed at breakneck speed down the hollow.

I was just in time. Mr. Fortescue, with his back against the tree, was defending himself with
his sword-stick against the two Italians, each of whom, armed with a long dagger, was doing
his best to get at him without falling foul of the sword.

The rascals were so intent on their murderous business that they neither heard nor saw me,
and, taking them in the rear, I fetched the guitar-player a crack on his skull that stretched
him senseless on the ground, whereupon the other villain, without more ado, took to his heels.

"Thank you," said Mr. Fortescue, quietly, as he put up his weapon. "I don't think I could have
kept the brigands at bay much longer. A sword-stick is no match for a pair of Corsican daggers.
The next time I take a walk I must have a revolver. Is that fellow dead, do you think? If he
is, I shall be still more in your debt."

I looked at the prostrate man's face, then at his head. "No," I said, "there is no fracture.
He is only stunned." My diagnosis was verified almost as soon as it was spoken. The next moment
the Italian opened his eyes and sat up, and had I not threatened him with my blackthorn would
have sprung to his feet.

"You have to thank this gentleman for saving your life," said Mr. Fortescue, in French.

"How?" asked the fellow in the same language.

"If you had killed me you would have been hanged. If I hand you over to the police you will
get twenty years at the hulks for attempted murder, and unless you answer my questions truly
I shall hand you over to the police. You are a Griscelli."

"Yes, sir."

"Which of them?"

"I am Giuseppe, the son of Giuseppe."

"In that case you are his grandson. How did you find me out?"

"You were at Paris last summer."

"But you did not see me there."

"No, but Giacomo did; and from your name and appearance we felt sure you were the same."

"Who is Giacomo--your brother?"

"No, my cousin, the son of Luigi."

"What is he?"

"He belongs to the secret police."

"So Giacomo put you on the scent?"

"Yes, sir. He ascertained that you were living in England. The rest was easy."

"Oh, it was, was it? You don't find yourself very much at ease just now, I fancy. And now,
my young friend, I am going to treat you better than you deserve. I can afford to do so, for,
as you see, and, as your grandfather and your father discovered to their cost, I bear a charmed
life. You cannot kill me. You may go. And I advise you to return to France or Corsica, or wherever
may be your home, with all speed, for to-morrow I shall denounce you to the police, and if
you are caught you know what to expect. Who is your accomplice--a kinsman?"

"No, only compatriot, whose acquaintance I made in London. He is a coward."

"Evidently. One more question and I have done. Have you any brothers?"

"Yes, sir; two."

"And about a dozen cousins, I suppose, all of whom would be delighted to murder me--if they
could. Now, give that gentleman your dagger, and march, au pas gymnastique."

With a very ill grace, Giuseppe Griscelli did as he was bid, and then, rising to his feet,
he marched, not, however, at the pas gymnastique, but slowly and deliberately; and as he reached
a bend in the path a few yards farther on, he turned round and cast at Mr. Fortescue the most
diabolically ferocious glance I ever saw on a human countenance.

CHAPTER V.

THEREBY  HANGS  A  TALE.

"You believe now, I hope," said Mr. Fortescue, as we walked homeward.

"Believe what, sir?"

"That I have relentless enemies who seek my life. When I first told you of this you did not
believe me. You thought I was the victim of an hallucination, else had I been more frank with you."

"I am really very sorry."

"Don't protest! I cannot blame you. It is hard for people who have led uneventful lives and
seen little of the seamy side of human nature to believe that under the veneer of civilization
and the mask of convention, hatreds are still as fierce, men still as revengeful as ever they
were in olden times.... I hope I did not make a mistake in sparing young Griscelli's life."

"Sparing his life! How?"

"He sought my life, and I had a perfect right to take his."

"That is not a very Christian sentiment, Mr. Fortescue."

"I did not say it was. Do you always repay good for evil and turn your check to the smiter,
Mr. Bacon?"

"If you put it in that way, I fear I don't."

"Do you know anybody who does?"

After a moment's reflection I was again compelled to answer in the negative. I could not call
to mind a single individual of my acquaintance who acted on the principle of returning good
for evil.

"Well, then, if I am no better than other people, I am no worse. Yet, after all, I think I
did well to let him go. Had I killed the brigand, there would have been a coroner's inquest,
and questions asked which might have been troublesome to answer, and he has brothers and cousins.
If I could destroy the entire brood! Did you see the look he gave me as he went away? It meant
murder. We have not seen the last of Giuseppe Griscelli, Mr. Bacon."

"I am afraid we have not. I never saw such an expression of intense hatred in my life! Has
he cause for it?"

"I dare say he thinks so. I killed his father and his grand-father."

This, uttered as indifferently as if it were a question of killing hares and foxes, was more
than I could stand. I am not strait-laced, but I draw the line at murder.

"You did what?" I exclaimed, as, horror-struck and indignant, I stopped in the path and looked
him full in the face.

I thought I had never seen him so Mephistopheles-like. A sinister smile parted his lips, showing
his small white teeth gleaming under his gray mustache, and he regarded me with a look of cynical
amusement, in which there was perhaps a slight touch of contempt.

"You are a young man, Mr. Bacon," he observed, gently, "and, like most young men, and a great
many old men, you make false deductions. Killing is not always murder. If it were, we should
consign our conquerors to everlasting infamy, instead of crowning them with laurels and erecting
statues to their memory. I am no murderer, Mr. Bacon. At the same time I do not cherish illusions.
Unpremeditated murder is by no means the worst of crimes. Taking a life is only anticipating
the inevitable; and of all murderers, Nature is the greatest and the cruellest. I have--if
I could only tell you--make you see what I have seen--Even now, O God! though half a century
has run its course--"

Here Mr. Fortescue's voice failed him; he turned deadly pale, and his countenance took an expression
of the keenest anguish. But the signs of emotion passed away as quickly as they had appeared.
Another moment and he had fully regained his composure, and he added, in his usual self-possessed
manner:

"All this must seem very strange to you, Mr. Bacon. I suppose you consider me somewhat of a
mystery."

"Not somewhat, but very much."

Mr. Fortescue smiled (he never laughed) and reflected a moment.

"I am thinking," he said, "how strangely things come about, and, so to speak, hang together.
The greatest of all mysteries is fate. If that horse had not run away with you, these rascals
would almost certainly have made away with me; and the incident of to-day is one of the consequences
of that which I mentioned at our first interview."

"When we had that good run from Latton. I remember it very well. You said you had been hunted
yourself."

"Yes."

"How was it, Mr. Fortescue?"

"Ah! Thereby hangs a tale."

"Tell it me, Mr. Fortescue," I said, eagerly.

"And a very long tale."

"So much the better; it is sure to be interesting."

"Ah, yes, I dare say you would find it interesting. My life has been stirring and stormy enough,
in all conscience--except for the ten years I spent in heaven," said Mr. Fortescue, in a voice
and with a look of intense sadness.

"Ten years in heaven!" I exclaimed, as much astonished as I had just been horrified. Was the
man mad, after all, or did he speak in paradoxes? "Ten years in heaven!"

Mr. Fortescue smiled again, and then it occurred to me that his ten years of heaven might have
some connection with the veiled portrait and the shrine in his room up-stairs.

"You take me too literally," he said. "I spoke metaphorically. I did not mean that, like Swedenborg
and Mohammed, I have made excursions to Paradise. I merely meant that I once spent ten years
of such serene happiness as it seldom falls to the lot of man to enjoy. But to return to our
subject. You would like to know more of my past; but as it would not be satisfactory to tell
you an incomplete history, and to tell you all--Yet why not? I have done nothing that I am
ashamed of; and it is well you should know something of the man whose life you have saved once,
and may possibly save again. You are trustworthy, straightforward, and vigilant, and albeit
you are not overburdened with intelligence--"

Here Mr. Fortescue paused, as if to reflect; and, though the observation was not very flattering--hardly
civil, indeed--I was so anxious to hear this story that I took it in good part, and waited
patiently for his decision.

"To relate it viva voce" he went on, thoughtfully, "would be troublesome to both of us."

"I am sure I should find it anything but troublesome."

"Well, I should. It would take too much time, and I hate travelling over old ground. But that
is a difficulty which I think we can get over. For many years I have made a record of the principal
events of my life, in the form of a personal narrative; and though I have sometimes let it
run behind for a while, I have always written it up."

"That is exactly the thing. As you say, telling a long story is troublesome. I can read it."

"I am afraid not. It is written in a sort of stenographic cipher of my own invention."

"That is very awkward," I said, despondently. "I know no more of shorthand than of Sanskrit,
and though I once tried to make out a cipher, the only tangible result was a splitting headache."

"With the key, which I will give you, a little instruction and practice, you should have no
difficulty in making out my cipher. It will be an exercise for your intelligence"--smiling.
"Will you try?"

"My very best."

"And now for the conditions. In the first place, you must, in stenographic phrase, 'extend'
my notes, write out the narrative in a legible hand and good English. If there be any blanks,
I will fill them up; if you require explanations, I will give them. Do you agree?"

"I agree."

"The second condition is that you neither make use of the narrative for any purpose of your
own, nor disclose the whole or any part of it to anybody until and unless I give you leave.
What say you?"

"I say yes."

"The third and last condition is, that you engage to stay with me in your present capacity
until it pleases me to give you your congé. Again what say you?"

This was rather a "big order," and very one-sided. It bound me to remain with Mr. Fortescue
for an indefinite period, yet left him at liberty to dismiss me at a moment's notice; and if
he went on living, I might have to stay at Kingscote till I was old and gray. All the same,
the position was a good one. I had four hundred a year (the price at which I had modestly appraised
my services), free quarters, a pleasant life, and lots of hunting--all I could wish for, in
fact; and what can a man have more? So again I said, "Yes."

"We are agreed in all points, then. If you will come into my room "--we were by this time arrived
at the house--"you shall have your first lesson in cryptography."

I assented with eagerness, for I was burning to begin, and, from what Mr. Fortescue had said,
I did not anticipate any great difficulty in making out the cipher.

But when he produced a specimen page of his manuscript, my confidence, like Bob Acre's courage,
oozed out at my finger-ends, or rather, all over me, for I broke out into a cold sweat.

The first few lines resembled a confused array of algebraic formula. (I detest algebra.) Then
came several lines that seemed to have been made by the crawlings of tipsy flies with inky
legs, followed by half a dozen or so that looked like the ravings of a lunatic done into Welsh,
while the remainder consisted of Roman numerals and ordinary figures mixed up, higgledy-piggledy.

"This is nothing less than appalling," I almost groaned. "It will take me longer to learn than
two or three languages."

"Oh, no! When you have got the clew, and learned the signs, you will read the cipher with ease."

"Very likely; but when will that be?"

"Soon. The system is not nearly so complicated as it looks, and the language being English--"

"English! It looks like a mixture of ancient Mexican and modern Chinese."

"The language being English, nothing could be easier for a man of ordinary intelligence. If
I had expected that my manuscript would fall into the hands of a cryptographist, I should have
contrived something much more complicated and written it in several languages; and you have
the key ready to your hand. Come, let us begin."

After half an hour's instruction I began to see daylight, and to feel that with patience and
practice I should be able to write out the story in legible English. The little I had read
with Mr. Fortescue made me keen to know more; but as the cryptographic narrative did not begin
at the beginning, he proposed that I should write this, as also any other missing parts, to
his dictation.

"Who knows that you may not make a book of it?" he said.

"Do you think I am intelligent Enough?" I asked, resentfully; for his uncomplimentary references
to my mental capacity were still rankling in my mind.

"I should hope so. Everybody writes in these days. Don't worry yourself on that score, my dear
Mr. Bacon. Even though you may write a book, nobody will accuse you of being exceptionally
intelligent."

"But I cannot make a book of your narrative without your leave," I observed, with a painful
sense of having gained nothing by my motion.

"And that leave may be sooner or later forthcoming, on conditions."

As the reader will find in the sequel, the leave has been given and the conditions have been
fulfilled, and Mr. Fortescue's personal narrative--partly taken down from his own dictation,
but for the most part extended from his manuscript--begins with the following chapter.

CHAPTER VI.

THE TALE BEGINS.

The morning after the battle of Salamanca (through which I passed unscathed) the regiment of
dragoons to which I belonged (forming part of Anson's brigade), together with Bock's Germans,
was ordered to follow on the traces of the flying French, who had retired across the River
Tormes. Though we started at daylight, we did not come up with their rear-guard until noon.
It consisted of a strong force of horse and foot, and made a stand near La Serna; but the cavalry,
who had received a severe lesson on the previous day, bolted before we could cross swords with
them. The infantry, however, remained firm, and forming square, faced us like men. The order
was then given to charge; and when the two brigades broke into a gallop and thundered down
the slope, they raised so thick a cloud of dust that all we could see of the enemy was the
glitter of their bayonets and the flash of their musket-fire. Saddles were emptied both to
the right and left of me, and one of the riderless horses, maddened by a wound in the head,
dashed wildly forward, and leaping among the bayonets and lashing out furiously with his hind-legs,
opened a way into the square. I was the first man through the gap, and engaged the French colonel
in a hand-to-hand combat. At the very moment just as I gave him the point in his throat he
cut open my shoulder, my horse, mortally hurt by a bayonet thrust, fell, half rolling over
me and crushing my leg.

As I lay on the ground, faint with the loss of blood and unable to rise, some of our fellows
rode over me, and being hit on the head by one of their horses, I lost consciousness. When
I came to myself the skirmish was over, nearly the whole of the French rear-guard had been
taken prisoners or cut to pieces, and a surgeon was dressing my wounds. This done, I was removed
in an ambulance to Salamanca.

The historic old city, with its steep, narrow streets, numerous convents, and famous university,
had been well-nigh ruined by the French, who had pulled down half the convents and nearly all
the colleges, and used the stones for the building of forts, which, a few weeks previously,
Wellington had bombarded with red-hot shot.

The hospitals being crowded with sick and wounded, I was billeted in the house of a certain
Señor Don Alberto Zamorra, which (probably owing to the fact of its having been the quarters
of a French colonel) had not taken much harm, either during the French occupation of the town
or the subsequent siege of the forts.

Don Alberto gave me a hearty, albeit a dignified welcome, and being a Spanish gentleman of
the old school, he naturally placed his house, and all that it contained, at my disposal. I
did not, of course, take this assurance literally, and had I not been on the right side, I
should doubtless have met with a very different reception. All the same, he made a very agreeable
host, and before I had been his guest many days we became fast friends.

Don Zamorra was old, nearly as old as I am now; and as I speedily discovered, he had passed
the greater part of his life in Spanish America, where he had held high office under the crown.
He could hardly talk about anything else, in fact, and once he began to discourse about his
former greatness and the marvels of the Indies (as South and Central America were then sometimes
called) he never knew when to stop. He had crossed the Andes and seen the Amazon, sailed down
the Orinoco and visited the mines of Potosi and Guanajuata, beheld the fiery summit of Cotopaxi,
and peeped down the smoky crater of Acatenango. He told of fights with Indians and wild animals,
of being lost in the forest, and of perilous expeditions in search of gold and precious stones.
When Zamorra spoke of gold his whole attitude changed, the fires of his youth blazed up afresh,
his face glowed with excitement, and his eyes sparkled with greed. At these times I saw in
him a true type of the old Spanish Conquestadores, who would baptize a cacique to save him
from hell one day, and kill him and loot his treasure the next.

Don Alberto had, moreover, a firm belief in the existence of the fabled El Dorado, and of the
city of Manoa, with its resplendent house of the sun, its hoards of silver and gold, and its
gilded king. Thousands of adventurers had gone forth in search of these wonders, and thousands
had perished in the attempt to find them. Señor Zamorra had sought El Dorado on the banks of
the Orinoco and the Rio Negro; others, near the source of the Rio Grande and the Marañon; others,
again, among the volcanoes of Salvador and the canons of the Cordilleras. Zamorra believed
that it lay either in the wilds of Guiana, or the unexplored confines of Peru and the Brazils.

He had heard of and believed even greater wonders--of a stream on the Pacific coast of Mexico,
whose pebbles were silver, and whose sand was gold; of a volcano in the Peruvian Cordillera,
whose crater was lined with the noblest of metals, and which once in every hundred years ejected,
for days together, diamonds, and rubies, and dust of gold.

"If that volcano could only be found," said the don, with a convulsive clutching of his bony
fingers, and a greedy glare in his aged eyes. "If that volcano could only be found! Why, it
must be made of gold, and covered with precious stones! The man who found it would be the richest
in all the world--richer than all the people in the world put together!"

"Did you ever see it, Don Alberto?" I asked.

"Did I ever see it?" he cried, uplifting his withered hands. "If I had seen that volcano you
would never have seen me, but you would have heard of me. I had it from an Indio whose father
once saw it with his own eyes; but I was too old, too old"--sighing--"to go on the quest. To
undertake such an enterprise a man should be in the prime of life and go alone. A single companion,
even though he were your own brother, might be fatal; for what virtue could be proof against
so great a temptation--millions of diamonds and a mountain of gold?"

All this roused my curiosity and fired my imagination--not that I believed it all, for Zamorra
was evidently a visionary with a fixed idea, and as touching his craze, credulous as a child;
but in those days South America had been very little written about and not half explored; for
me it had all the charm and fascination of the unknown--a land of romance and adventure, abounding
in grand scenery, peopled by strange races, and containing the mightiest rivers, the greatest
forests, and highest mountains in the world.

When my host dismounted from his hobby he was an intelligent talker, and told me much that
was interesting about Mexico, Peru, Guatemala, and the Spanish Main. He had several books on
the subject which I greedily devoured. The expedition of Piedro de Ursua and Lope de Aguirre
in search of El Dorado and Omagua; "History of the Conquest of Mexico," by Don Antonio de Solis;
Piedrolieta's "General History of the Conquest of the New Kingdom of Grenada," and others;
and before we parted I had resolved that, so soon as the war was over, I would make a voyage
to the land of the setting sun, and see for myself the wonders of which I had heard.

"You are right," said Señor Zamorra, when I told him of my intention. "America is the country
of the future. Ah, if I were only fifty years younger! You will, of course, visit Venezuela;
and if you visit Venezuela you are sure to go to Caracas. I will give you a letter of introduction
to a friend of mine there. He is a man in authority, and may be of use to you. I should much
like you to see him and greet him on my behalf."

I thanked my host, and promised to see his friend and present the letter. It was addressed
to Don Simon de Ulloa. Little did I think how much trouble that letter would give me, and how
near it would come to being my death-warrant.

Zamorra then besought me, with tears in his eyes, to go in search of the Golden Volcano.

"If you could give me a more definite idea of its whereabouts I might possibly make the attempt,"
I answered, with intentional vagueness; for though I no more believed in the objective existence
of the Golden Volcano than in Aladdin's lamp, I did not wish to hurt the old man's feelings
by an avowal of my skepticism.

"Ah, my dear sir," he said, with a gesture of despair, "if I knew the whereabouts of the Golden
Volcano, I should go thither myself, old as I am. I should have gone long ago, and returned
with a hoard of wealth that would make me the master of Europe--wealth that would buy kingdoms.
I can tell you no more than that it is somewhere in the region of the Peruvian Andes. It may
be that by cautious inquiry you may light on an Indio who will lead you to the very spot. It
is worth the attempt, and if by the help of St. Peter and the Holy Virgin you succeed, and
I am still alive, send me out of your abundance a few arrobas (twenty-five pounds) of gold
and a handful of diamonds. It is all I ask."

It was all he asked.

