The advertiser would beg respectfully to call special attention to the above most important
collection of the Acts of the Church of Scotland, as being the only authentic records of the
proceedings of the church, and which must be both interesting and invaluable to the ecclesiastical
historian and antiquary. No library, public or private, which lays claim to the possession
to any extent of works of an analogous kind, can be said to be complete without a set of the
Church of Scotland Acts. The copy now for sale is in very fine condition and quite entire,
and has the very rare first volume (1638-49) in the original folio size, which is generally
supplied by the small octavo reprint, and such a copy the advertiser confidently presumes will
not be found for sale in the kingdom.

Application to be made to

Robert Ogle, Bookseller, South Bridge, Edinburgh.

N.B. A liberal price will be given for a first volume of the above work, 1638-49, in folio.

       *       *       *       *       *

Price 3d., or 5s. for 25 copies for distribution amongst Cottage Tenantry,

THE COTTAGERS' CALENDAR OF GARDEN OPERATIONS.

By Joseph Paxton,

Gardener to His Grace the Duke of Devonshire, &c., &c.

Reprinted from the Gardeners' Chronicle. Above 57,000 have already been sold.

INDEX OF THE CONTENTS:

African Lilies Agapanthus Anemones Annuals Apples Apricot Auriculas Beans Beet Biennials Black
Fly Books, list of, for Cottagers Borage Borecole Box edgings Broccoli Brussels Sprouts Budding
Bulbs Cabbage Cactus Calceolarias Californian Annuals Campanulas Carnations Carrots Cauliflowers
Celery Cherries China Asters China Roses Chrysanthemums, Chinese Chives Clarkias Clematis Collinsias
Coleworts Cress Creepers Crocus Crown Imperials Cucumbers Cultivation of Flowers in Windows
Currants Dahlias Daisies Dog's tooth Violets Exhibitions, preparing articles for Ferns, as
protection Fruit Fruit Cookery Fuchsias Gentianella Gilias Gooseberries Grafting Grapes Green
Fly Heartsease Herbs Herbaceous Perennials Heliotrope Hollyhocks Honeysuckle Horse-radish Hyacinths
Hydrangeas Hyssop Indian Cress Iris Kidney Beans Lavender Layering Leeks Leptosiphons Lettuce
Lobelias London Pride Lychnis, Double Marigold Marjoram Manures Marvel of Peru Mesembryanthemums
Mignonette Mint Mushroom Mustard Narcissus Nemophilas OEnothera bifrons Onions Pæonies Parsnip
Parsley Peaches Pea-haulm Pears Peas Pelargoniums Perennials Persian Iris Petunias Phlox Pigs
Pinks Planting Plums Polyanthus Potatoes Privet Pruning Propagate by cuttings Pyracantha Radishes
Ranunculus Raspberries Rhubarb Rockets Roses Rue Rustic Vases Sage Salvias Savoys Saxifrage
Scarlet Runner Beans Seeds Sea Daisy or Thrif Seakale Select Flowers Select Vegetables and
Fruit Slugs Snowdrops Soups Spinach Spruce Fir Spur pruning Stews Stocks Strawberries Summer-savory
Sweet Williams Thorn Hedges Thyme Tigridia Pavonia Transplanting Tree lifting Tulips Turnips
Vegetable Cookery Venus's Looking-glass Verbenas Vines Virginian Stocks Wallflowers Willows Zinnias

Illustrated with several Woodcuts.

Published at the 'Gardeners' Chronicle and Agricultural Gazette' Office, 5. Upper Wellington-street,
Covent-garden, London, at the rate of 3d. each copy, or 5s. for 25 for distribution amongst
Cottage Tenantry; delivered anywhere in London. on a Post-office Order being sent to the Publisher,
James Matthews, at the Office, and made payable at the Post-office, 180. Strand. 1850.