The religion and deities of Babylonia were adopted by the Assyrians. But in Assyria they were
always somewhat of an exotic, and even the learned class invoked Assur rather than the other
gods. Assur was the personification of the old capital of the country and of the nation itself,
and though the scribes found an etymology for the name in that of An-sar, the primæval god
of Sumerian cosmogony, the fact was always remembered. Assur was purely Semitic in his attributes,
and, like Yahveh of Israel or Chemosh of Moab, was wifeless and childless. It is true that
a learned scribe now and then found a wife for him among the numerous divinities of the Babylonian
cult, but the discovery was never accepted, and Assur for the mass of his worshippers remained
single and alone. It was through trust in him that the Assyrian kings believed their victories
were gained, and it was to punish those who disbelieved in him that their campaigns were undertaken.

In the worship of Assur, accordingly, a tendency to monotheism reveals itself. The tendency
was even more pronounced in a certain literary school of thought in Babylonia. We have texts
which resolve the deities of the popular faith into forms of one god; sometimes this is Anu
of Erech, sometimes it is Merodach of Babylon.

Babylonian worship necessitated a large hierarchy of priests. At the head was the high-priest,
who in early times possessed temporal power and in many states was the predecessor of the king.
The king, in fact, inherited his priesthood from him, and was consequently qualified to perform
priestly functions. Under the high-priest there were numerous classes of ministers of the gods,
such as the "anointers," whose duty it was to anoint the holy images with oil, the ordinary
"priests," the "seers," and the "prophets." The prophets enjoyed high consideration; they even
accompanied the army to the field, and decided whether the campaign would result in victory
or defeat. Quite apart from all these were the astrologers, who did not belong to the priesthood
at all. On the contrary, they professed to be men of science, and the predictions of the future
which they read in the stars were founded on the records and observations of former generations.

A chief part of the duty of the priests consisted in offering sacrifice and reciting the services.
The sacrifices were of two kinds, as in the Jewish ritual. The same animals and the same fruits
of the earth were offered by both Babylonians and Israelites, and in many cases the regulations
relating to the sacrifices were similar. The services were elaborate, and the rubrics attached
to the hymns and prayers which had to be recited are minute and complicated. The hymns had
been formed into a sort of Bible, which had in time acquired a divine authority. So sacred
were its words, that a single mispronunciation of them was sufficient to impair the efficacy
of the service. Rules for their pronunciation were accordingly laid down, which were the more
necessary as the hymns were in Sumerian. The dead language of Sumer had become sacred, like
Latin in the Middle Ages, and each line of a hymn was provided with a translation in Semitic
Babylonian.

In appearance, a Babylonian temple was not very unlike those of Canaan or of Solomon. The image
of the god stood in the innermost shrine, the Holy of Holies, where also was the mercy-seat,
whereon it was believed, as upon a throne, the deity was accustomed to descend at certain times
of the year. In the little temple of Balawât, near Nineveh, discovered by Mr. Hormuzd Rassam,
the mercy-seat was shaped like an ark, and contained two written tables of stone; no statue
of the god, however, seems in this instance to have stood beside it. In front of it was the
altar, approached by steps.

In the court of the temple was a "sea" or "deep," like that which was made by Solomon. An early
hymn which describes the construction of one of them, states that it was of bronze, and that
it rested on the figures of twelve bronze oxen. It was intended for the ablutions of the priests
and the vessels of the sanctuary, and was a representation of that primæval deep out of which
it was believed that the world originated.

One peculiarity the Babylonian temples possessed which was not shared by those of the west.
Each had its ziggurat or "tower," which served for the observation of the stars, and in the
topmost storey of which was the altar of the god. It corresponded with the "high-place" of
Canaan, where man imagined himself nearest to the gods of heaven. But in the flat plain of
Babylonia it was needful that the high-place should be of artificial construction, and here
accordingly they built the towers whose summits "reached to" the sky.

The temples and their ministers were supported partly by endowments, partly by voluntary gifts,
sometimes called kurbanni, the Hebrew korban, partly by obligatory contributions, the most
important of which was the esrâ or "tithe." Besides the fixed festivals, which were enumerated
in the calendar, special days of thanksgiving or humiliation were appointed from time to time.
There was also a weekly Sabattu or "Sabbath," on the 1st, 7th, 14th, 21st, and 28th days of
the month, as well as on the 19th, the last day of the seventh week from the beginning of the
previous month. The Sabbath is described as "a day of rest for the heart," and all work upon
it was forbidden. The king was not allowed to change his dress, to ride in his chariot, or
even to take medicine, while the prophet himself was forbidden to utter his prophecies.

The mass of the people looked forward to a dreary existence beyond the grave. The shades of
the dead flitted like bats in the darkness of the under-world, hungry and cold, while the ghosts
of the heroes of the past sat beside them on their shadowy thrones, and Allat, the mistress
of Hades, presided over the warders of its seven gates. The Sumerians had called it "the land
whence none return," though in the theology of Eridu and Babylon Asari or Merodach was already
a god who, through the wisdom of his father Ea, "restored the dead to life." But as the centuries
passed, new and less gloomy ideas grew up in regard to the future life. In a prayer for the
Assyrian king the writer asks that he may enjoy an endless existence hereafter in "the land
of the silver sky," and the realms of the gods of light had been peopled with the heroes of
Babylonian literature at an early date.

The belief in Hades went back to those primitive ages when the Sumerians of Eridu conceived
of the earth as floating on the deep, which surrounded it as a snake with its coils, while
the sky covered it above like an extinguisher, and was supported on the peak of "the mountain
of the world," where the gods had their abode. This primitive cosmological conception underwent
changes in the course of time, but the underlying idea of an abyss of waters out of which all
things were shaped remained to the end. The Chaldæan Epic of the Creation declares that "in
the beginning," "the chaos of the deep" had been the "mother" of both heaven and earth, out
of whom first came the primæval deities Lakhmu and Lakhamu, and then An-sar and Ki-sar, the
upper and lower firmament. Long ages had to elapse before the Trinity of the later theology--Anu,
Ea, and Bel--were born of these, and all things made ready for the genesis of the present world.
Merodach, the champion of the gods of light and law, had first to do battle with Tiamat, "the
dragon" of "the deep," and her allies of darkness and disorder. He had proved his powers by
creating and annihilating by means of his "word" alone, and the conflict which he waged ended
in the destruction of the enemy. The body of Tiamat was torn asunder and transformed into the
heaven and earth, her springs of water were placed under control, and the forces of anarchy
and chaos were banished from the universe. Then followed the creation of the existing order
of things. The sun and moon and stars were fixed in their places, and laws given to them which
they should never transgress, plants and animals were created, and finally man.

Babylonian literature went back to a remote date. The age of Sargon of Akkad was already a
highly literary one, and the library he founded at Akkad contained works which continued to
be re-edited down to the latest days of Babylonian literature. Every great city had its library,
which was open to every reader, and where the books were carefully catalogued and arranged
on shelves. Here too were kept the public records, as well as title-deeds, law-cases, and other
documents belonging to private individuals. The office of librarian was held in honour, and
was not unfrequently occupied by one of the sons of the king. Every branch of literature and
science known at the time was represented. Theology was naturally prominent, as well as works
on omens and charms. The standard work on astronomy and astrology, in seventy-two books, had
been compiled for the library of Sargon of Akkad; so too had the standard work on terrestrial
omens. There was also a standard work on medicine, in which medical prescriptions and spells
were mixed together. Philological treatises were numerous. There were dictionaries and grammars
for explaining the Sumerian language to Semitic pupils, interlinear translations of Sumerian
texts, phrase-books, lists of synonyms, and commentaries on difficult or obsolete words and
passages, besides syllabaries, in which the cuneiform characters were catalogued and explained.
Mathematics were diligently studied, and tables of squares and cubes have come to us from the
library of Larsa. Geography was represented by descriptions of the countries and cities known
to the Babylonians, natural history by lists of animals and birds, insects and plants. The
Assyrians were endowed with a keen sense of history, and had invented a system of reckoning
time by means of certain officers called limmi, who gave their names to their years of office.
The historical and chronological works of the Assyrian libraries are therefore particularly
important. They have enabled us to restore the chronology of the royal period of Israelitish
history, and to supplement the Old Testament narrative with the contemporaneous records of
the Assyrian kings. The Babylonians were less historically exact, perhaps because they had
less of the Semitic element in their blood; but they, too, carefully kept the annals of their
kings, and took a deep interest in the former history of their country.

Contract and other tablets relating to trade and business formed, however, the larger part
of the contents of most Babylonian libraries. They have revealed to us the inner and social
life of the people, so that the age of Khammurabi, or even of Sargon, in Babylonia, is beginning
to be as well known to us as the age of Periklês in Greece. Along with the contract-tablets
must be counted the numerous legal documents and records of law-cases which have been preserved.
Babylonian law was, like English law, built upon precedents, and an elaborate and carefully
considered code had been formed at an early date.

Collections of letters, partly royal, partly private, were also to be found in the libraries.
The autograph letters of Khammurabi, the Amraphel of Genesis, have come down to us, and we
even have letters of his time from a lover to his mistress, and from a tenant to his landlord,
whom he begs to reduce his rent. Boys went to school early, and learning the cuneiform syllabary
was a task that demanded no small amount of time and application, especially when it is remembered
that in the case of the Semitic Babylonian this involved also acquiring a knowledge of the
dead language of Sumer. One of the exercises of the Sumerian schoolboy bids him "rise like
the dawn, if he would excel in the school of the scribes."

Purely literary texts were numerous, especially poems, though nothing corresponding to the
Egyptian novel has been met with. The epic of Gilgames, composed by Sin-liqi-unnini, has already
been referred to. Its twelve books answered to the twelve signs of the Zodiac, and the eleventh
accordingly contains the episode of the Deluge. Gilgames was the son of a royal mother, whose
son was fated to slay his grandfather, and who was consequently confined in a tower. But an
eagle carried him to a place of safety, and when he grew up he delivered Erech from its foes,
and made it the seat of his kingdom. He slew the tyrant Khumbaba in the forest of cedars, and
by means of a stratagem tempted the satyr Ea-bant to leave the woods and become his counsellor
and friend. Istar wooed him, but he scorned her offers, and taunted her with her misdeeds to
the hapless lovers who had been caught in her toils. In revenge the goddess persuaded her father
Anu to create a winged bull, which should work havoc in the country of the Babylonians. But
Gilgames destroyed the bull, an achievement, however, for which he was punished by Heaven.
Ea-bani died of the bite of a gadfly, and his spirit mounted to the skies, while Gilgames himself
was smitten by a sore disease. To heal it he sailed beyond the mouth of the Euphrates and the
river of death, leaving behind him the deserts of Arabia and the twin-mountain where men in
the shape of huge scorpions guard the gateways of the sun. At last he found Xisuthros, the
hero of the Deluge, and learned from him how he had escaped death. Cured of his malady, he
returned homeward with a leaf of the tree of life. But as he rested at a fountain by the way
it was stolen by a serpent, and man lost the gift of immortality.

In Babylonia, and to a lesser extent in Assyria, women were practically on a footing of equality
with the men. They could trade in their own names, could make wills, could appear as witnesses
or plaintiffs in court. We hear of a father transferring his property to his daughter, reserving
only the use of it during his life. Polygamy was not common; indeed, we find it stipulated
in one instance that in the case of a second marriage on the part of the husband the dowry
of the first wife should be returned to her, and that she should be free to go where she would.
Of course these rules did not apply to concubines, who were often purchased. Adoptions were
frequent, and slaves could be adopted into the family of a freeman.

The large number of slaves caused the wages of the free labourer to be low. But the slaves
were treated with humanity. From early times it was a law that if a slave were hired to another,
the hirer should pay a penalty to his master whenever he was incapable of work, thus preventing
"sweating" or overwork. Similarly, injuries to a slave were punished by a fine. The slave could
trade and acquire property for himself, could receive wages for his work when hired to another,
could give evidence in a court of law, and might obtain his freedom either by manumission,
by purchase, by adoption, or by impressment into the royal service.

Farms were usually held on a sort of métayer system, half the produce going to the landlord
as rent. Sometimes, however, the tenant received only a third, a fourth, or even a tenth part
of the produce, two-thirds of the annual crop of dates being also assigned to the owner of
the land. The tenant had to keep the farm-buildings in order, and to build any that were required.
House-property seems to have been even more valuable than farm-land. The deeds for the lease
or sale of it enter into the most minute particulars, and carefully define the limits of the
estate. The house was let for a term of years, the rent being paid either twice or three times
a year. At the expiration of the lease, the property had to be returned in the state in which
the tenant had found it, and any infringement of the legal stipulations was punished with a
heavy fine. Agents were frequently employed in the sale or letting of estates.

The cities were busy centres of trade. Commercial intercourse was carried on with all parts
of the known world. Wheat was exported in large quantities, as well as dates and date-wine.
The staple of Babylonian industry, however, was the manufacture of cloths and carpets. Vast
flocks of sheep were kept on the western bank of the Euphrates, and placed under the charge
of Bedâwin from Arabia. Their wool was made into curtains and rugs, and dyed or embroidered
fabrics of various kinds. Even Belshazzar, the heir-apparent of Nabonidos, did not disdain
to be a wool-merchant, and we find him lending twenty manehs, the proceeds of the sale of some
of it, and taking as security for the repayment of the debt certain house-property in Babylon.
It was "a goodly Babylonish garment," secreted by Achan from among the spoil of Jericho, that
brought destruction upon himself and his family.

Money-lending naturally occupied a prominent place in the transaction of business. The ordinary
rate of interest was 20 per cent, paid in monthly instalments; in the time of Nebuchadrezzar,
however, it tended to be lower, and we find loans made at 13-1/2 per cent. The penalty was
severe if the capital were not repaid at the specified date. The payment was occasionally in
kind, but money was the usual medium of exchange. It consisted of rings or tongue-like bars
of gold, silver, and copper, representing manehs and shekels. The maneh was divided into sixty
shekels, and the standard used in later Babylonia had been fixed by Dungi, king of Ur. One
of the standard maneh-weights of stone, from the mint of Nebuchadrezzar, is now in the British
Museum. In the time of the Second Babylonian empire stamped or coined money was introduced,
as well as pieces of five or more shekels. This was the period when the great banking firm
of Egibi flourished, which anticipated the Rothschilds in making loans to the State.

The Babylonian cemetery adjoined the cities of the living, and was laid out in imitation of
the latter. The tombs were built of crude bricks, and were separated from one another by streets,
through which flowed streams of "living water." Gardens were planted by the side of some of
the tombs, which resembled the houses of the living, and in front of which offerings were made
to the dead. After a burial, brushwood was heaped round the walls of the tomb and set on fire,
partially cremating the body and the objects that were interred with it within. Sanitary reasons
made this partial cremation necessary, while want of space in the populous plain of Babylonia
caused the brick tombs to be built, like the houses of the towns, one on the top of the other.

Babylonia and Assyria were both administered by a bureaucracy, but whereas in Assyria the bureaucracy
was military, in Babylonia it was theocratic. The high-priest was the equal and the director
of the king, and the king himself was a priest, and the adopted child of Bel. In Assyria, on
the contrary, the arbitrary power of the monarch was practically unchecked. Under him was the
Turtannu or Tartan, the commander-in-chief, who commanded the army in the absence of the king.
The Rab-saki, Rab-shakeh, or vizier, who ranked a little below him, was the head of the civil
officials; besides him we hear of the Rab-sa-resi or Rabsaris, "the chief of the princes,"
the Rab-mugi or Rab-Mag, "the court physician," and an endless number of other officers. The
governors of provinces were selected from among the higher aristocracy, who alone had the privilege
of sharing with the king the office of limmu, or eponymous archon after whom the year was named.
Most of these officers seem to have been confined to Assyria; we do not hear of them in the
southern kingdom of Babylonia. There, however, from an early period royal judges had been appointed,
who went on circuit and sat under a president. Sometimes as many as four or six of them sat
on a case, and subscribed their names to the verdict.

The main attention of the Assyrian government was devoted to the army, which was kept in the
highest possible state of efficiency. It was recruited from the free peasantry of the country--a
fact which, while it explains the excellence of the Assyrian veterans, also shows why it was
that the empire fell as soon as constant wars had exhausted the native population. Improvements
were made in it from time to time; thus, cavalry came to supersede the use of chariots, and
the weapons and armour of the troops were changed and improved. Engineers and sappers accompanied
it, cutting down the forests and making roads as it marched, and the commissariat was carefully
attended to. The royal tent was arranged like a house, and one of its rooms was fitted up as
a kitchen, where the food was prepared as in the palace of Nineveh. In Babylonia it was the
fleet rather than the army which was the object of concern, though under Nebuchadrezzar and
his successors the army also became an important engine of war. But, unlike the Assyrians,
the Babylonians had been from the first a water-faring people, and the ship of war floated
on the Euphrates by the side of the merchant vessel and the state barge of the king.

Such then were the kingdoms of Babylonia and Assyria. Each exercised an influence on the Israelites
and their neighbours, though in a different way and with different results. The influence of
Assyria was ephemeral. It represented the meteor-like rise of a great military power, which
crushed all opposition, and introduced among mankind the new idea of a centralised world-empire.
It destroyed the northern kingdom of Samaria, and made Palestine once more what it had been
in pre-Mosaic days, the battle-ground between the nations of the Nile and the Tigris. On the
inner life of western Asia it left no impression.

The influence of Babylonia, on the other hand, was that of a venerable and a widely reaching
culture. The Canaan of the patriarchs and the Canaanitish conquest was a Canaan whose civilisation
was derived from the Euphrates, and this civilisation the Israelites themselves inherited.
Abraham was a Babylonian, and the Mosaic Law is not Egyptian but Babylonian in character, wherever
it ceases to be specifically Israelite. The influence of Babylonia, moreover, continued to
the last. It was the Babylonish Exile which changed the whole nature of the Jewish people,
which gave it new aims and ideals, and prepared it for the coming of the Messiah. The Babylonian
influence which had been working in the West for four thousand years received, as it were,
a fresh impulse, and affected the religion and life of Judah in a new and special manner. Nor
has the influence of Babylonian culture vanished even yet. Apart from the religious beliefs
we have received from Israel, there is much in European civilisation which can be traced back
to the old inhabitants of Chaldæa. It came through Canaanitish hands; perhaps, too, through
the hands of the Etruscans. At all events, the system of augury which Rome borrowed from Etruria
had a Babylonian origin, and the prototype of the strange liver-shaped instrument by means
of which the Etruscan soothsayer divined, has been found among the relics of a Babylonian library.

CHAPTER VII

CONCLUSION

Our task is finished. We have passed under review some of the facts which have been won by
modern discovery from the monuments of the nations who helped to create the history of Israel.
That history no longer stands alone like a solitary peak rising from the plain. Egypt, Babylonia,
and Assyria have yielded up their dead; Canaan and even Arabia are now beginning to do likewise.
The Oriental world of the past is slowly developing before our eyes; centuries which were deemed
pre-historic but a few years ago have now become familiar to us, and we can study the very
letters written by the contemporaries and predecessors of Abraham, and read the same books
as those that were read by them. A new light has been poured upon the Old Testament; its story
has been supplemented and explained; its statements tested and proved.

The Israelites were but one out of many branches of the same family. Their history is entwined
around that of their brethren, their characteristics were shared by others of the same race.
The Canaan they occupied was itself inhabited by more than one people, and after the first
few years of invasion, its influence became strong upon them. In race, indeed, the Jew was
by no means pure; at the outset a mixture of Israelite and Edomite, he was further mingled
with Moabite and Philistine elements. The first king of Judah as a separate kingdom had an
Ammonite mother, and bore an Ammonite name, while the portraits which surmount the names of
Shishak's conquests in southern Palestine show that the old Amorite population was still predominant
there. It was religion and history that made the Jew, not purity of race.

That Egypt must have exercised an influence upon Israel has long been known. The Israelites
were born as a nation in the land of Goshen, and the Exodus from Egypt is the starting-point
of their national history. But it is only since the decipherment of the Egyptian inscriptions
that it has been possible to determine how far this influence extended, and to what extent
it prevailed. And the result is to show that it was negative rather than positive; that the
regulations of the Mosaic Code were directed to preventing the people from returning to Egypt
and its idolatries by suppressing all reference to Egyptian beliefs and customs, and silently
contradicting its ideas and practices. Even the doctrine of the future life, and the resurrection
of the body, which plays so prominent a part in Egyptian religion, is carefully avoided, and
the Ten Commandments have little in common with the ethical code of Egypt.

But while the influence of Egypt has thus been shown to be negative rather than positive, the
influence of Babylonia has proved to be overwhelming. Perhaps this is one of the greatest surprises
of modern research, though it might have been expected had we remembered that Abraham was a
native of Babylonia, and that Israelites and Semitic Babylonians belonged to the same race.
We have seen that the early culture of western Asia was wholly Babylonian, and that Babylonian
influence continued undiminished there down to the days of the Exodus. The very mode of writing
and the language of literature were Babylonian; the whole method of thought had been modelled
after a Babylonian pattern for unnumbered generations. Israel in Goshen was no more exempt
from these influences than were the patriarchs in Canaan.

Babylonian influence is deeply imprinted on the Mosaic laws. The institution of the Sabbath
went back to the Sumerian days of Chaldæa; the name itself was of Babylonian origin. The great
festivals of Israel find their counterparts on the banks of the Euphrates. Even the year of
Jubilee was a Babylonian institution, and Gudea, the priest-king of Lagas, tells us that when
he kept it the slave became "for seven days the equal of his master." It was only the form
and application of the old institutions that were changed in the Levitical legislation. They
were adapted to the needs of Israel, and associated with the events of its history. But in
themselves they were all of Babylonian descent.

There is yet one more lesson to be learnt from the revelations of the monuments. They have
made it clear that civilisation in the East is immensely old. As far back as we can go we find
there all the elements of culture; man has already invented a system of writing, and has made
some progress in art. It is true that by the side of all this civilisation there were still
races living in the lowest barbarism of the Stone Age, just as there were Tasmanians who employed
stone weapons of palaeolithic shape less than sixty years ago; but between the civilised man
of the Babylonian plain and the barbarians around him there existed the same gulf that exists
to-day between the European and the savage. The history of the ancient East contains no record
of the development of culture out of savagery. It tells us, indeed, of degeneracy and decay,
but it knows of no period when civilisation began. So far as archaeology can teach us, the
builders of the Babylonian cities, the inventors of the cuneiform characters, had behind them
no barbarous past.

APPENDICES

I

EGYPTIAN CHRONOLOGY

Egypt was originally divided into several independent principalities. Eventually these became
the kingdoms of Northern (or Lower), and Southern (or Upper) Egypt. Among the kings of Northern
Egypt were (1) Pu, (2) Ska, (3) Katfu (?), (4) Tau, (5) Thesh, (6) Nenau (?), and (7) Mekhâ;
among the kings of Southern Egypt was Besh.

The two kingdoms were united by Men or Meni (Menes), king of This, who builds Memphis and founds
the First dynasty of the united monarchy.

DYNASTY I. (THINITE).

1. Meni. 2. Teta I. 3. Atotha. 4. Ata. 5. Husapti. 6. Mer-ba-pa, 73 years. 7. Samsu, 72 years.
8. Qabhu, 83 years.

DYNASTY II. (THINITE).

1. Buzau or Bai-neter, 95 years. 2. Kakau. 3. Ba-neter-en, 95 years. 4. Uznas, 70 years. 5.
Send, 74 years. 6. Per-ab-sen or Ka-Ra (?). 7. Nefer-ka-Ra, 70 years.

DYNASTY III. (MEMPHITE).

1. Nefer-ka-Sokar (2) 8 years, 4 months, 2 days. 2. Hu-zefa, 25 (?) years, 8 months, 4 days.
3. Babai. 4. Zazai, 37 years, 2 months, 1 day. 5. Neb-ka-Ra, 19 years. 6. Zoser, 19 years,
2 months. 7. Zoser-teta, 6 years. 8. Sezes. 9. Nefer-ka-Ra I., 6 years. 10. Huni, 24 years.

DYNASTY IV. (MEMPHITES).

1. Snefru, 24 years. 2. Sharu. 3. Khufu (Cheops), 23 years. 4. Ra-dad-f, 8 years. 6. Khâ-f-Ha
(Chephren). 6. Men-kau-Ra (Mykerinos). 7. Shepseskaf.

DYNASTY V. (ELEPHANTINES).

1. User-ka-f, 28 years. 2. Sahu-Ra, 4 years. 3. Kaka, 2 years. 4. Nefer-ar-ka-Ra I., 7 years.
5. Shepses-ka-Ra, 12 years. 6. Khâ-nefer-Ra. 7. Ra-n-user An, 25 years. 8. Men-ka-Hor, 8 years.
9. Dad-ka-Ra Assa, 28 years. 10. Unas, 30 years. 11. Akau-Hor, 7 years.

DYNASTY VI. (ELEPHANTINES).

1. Teta III. 2. User-ka-Ra. 3. Meri-Ra Pepi I., 20 years. 4. Mer-en-Ra Miht-em-saf I., 14 years.
5. Nefer-ka-Ra II. Pepi II., 94 years. 6. Mer-en-Ra Miht-em-saf II., 1 year, 1 month. 7. Neit-aker
(Nitôkris), a queen.

DYNASTIES VII. AND VIII. (MEMPHITES).

1. Nefer-ka, 2 years, 1 month, 1 day. 2. Neferus, 4 years, 2 months, 1 day. 3. Ab-en-Ra I.,
2 years, 1 month, 1 day. 4. ... 1 year, 8 days. 5. Ab-en-Ra II. 6. Hanti. 7. Pest-sat-en-Sopd.
8. Pait-Kheps. 9. Serhlinib. ... Dad-nefer-Ra Dudumes. ... Neter-ka-Ra. Men-ka-Ra. Nefer-ka-Ra
III. Nefer-ka-Ra IV. Nebi. Dad-ka-Ea Shema. Nefer-ka-Ra V. Khondu. Mer-en-Hor. Snefer-ka I.
Ka-n-Ra. Nefer-ka-Ra VI. Terel. Nefer-ka-Hor. Nefer-ka-Ra VII. Pepi-seneb. Snefer-ka II. Annu.
[User]-kau-Ra. Nefer-kau-Ra. Nefer-kau-Hor. Nefer-ar-ka-Ra II.

DYNASTY IX. (HERAKLEOPOLITES).

1. Khiti or Khruti I. Mer-ab-Ra ... Mâa-ab-Ra. Khâ-user-Ra. Âa-hotep-Ra. Skhâ-n-Ra. Aah-mes
(?)-Ra. Se-n (?)-mu-Ra.

DYNASTY X. (HERAKLEOPOLITES).

Mer-ka-Ea. ... Ra-hotep-ab Amu-si-Hor-nez-hirtef. ... Nefer-ka-Ra VIII. Khiti II. Se-heru-herri.
[Ameni?]

According to Lauth, the Turin Papyrus gives 19 kings to the Tenth dynasty, and 185 years.

DYNASTY XI. (THEBAN).

1. Antef I. Seshes-Hor-ap-mâa-Ra Antuf-Âa, prince of Thebes. 2. Neb-hotep Mentu-hotep I. 3.
Uah-ankh [Ter(?)-] seshes-ap-mâa-Ra Antef-Âa II., his son. 4. Seshes-herher-mâa-Ra-Antef III.,
his brother. 5. Neter-nefer Neb-taui-Ra Mentu-hotep II. 6. Nub-kheper-Ra Antauf, more than
50 years. 7. Neb-khru-Ra Mentu-hotep III., more than 46 years. 8. A'a'h, a queen. 9. Antef
V., her son. 10. S-ânkh-ka-Ra I.

According to Lauth, the Turin Papyrus makes the sum of the Eleventh dynasty 243 years, Neb-khru-Ra
reigning 51 years.

DYNASTY XII. (THEBAN).

1. Amon-em-hat I. S-hotep-ab-Ra, alone 20 years.
   With Usertesen I., 10 years.
2. Usertesen I. Kheper-ka-Ra, alone 32 years.
   With Amon-em-hat II., 3 years.
3. Amon-em-hat II. Nub-kau-Ra, alone 29 years.
   With Usertesen II., 6 years.
4. Usertesen II. Khâ-kheper-Ra, 19 years.
5. Usertesen III. Khâ-kau-Ra, 3 [8] years.
6. Amon-em-hat III. Mâat-en-Ra, 43 years.
7. Amon-em-hat IV. Mâa-khru-Ra, 9 years, 3 months, 27 days.
8. Sebek-nefru-Ra, a, queen, 3 years, 10 months, 24 days.

The Turin Papyrus makes the sum of the Twelfth dynasty 213 years, 1 month, 17 days.

DYNASTIES XIII. (THEBAN) AND XIV. (XOITE).

According to the Turin Papyrus:

1. Sebek-hotep I. Sekhem-khu-taui-Ra,
        son of Sebek-nefru-Ra,
        1 year, 3 months, 24 days.
2. Sekhem-ka-Ra, 6 years.
3. Ra Amon-em-hat V.
4. S-hotep-ab-Ra II.
5. Aufni, 2 years.
G. S-ânkh-ab-Ra Ameni Antuf
        Amon-em-hat VI., 1 year.
7. S-men-ka-Ra.
8. S-hotep-ab-Ra III.
9. S-ânkh-ka-Ra II.
10, 11. Names lost.
12. Nezem-ab-Ra.
13. Ra Sebek-hotep II.
14. Ren-seneb.
15. Autu-ab-Ra I. Hor.
16. Sezef-ka-Ra.
17. Sekhem-khu-taui-Ra II.
        Sebek-hotep III.
18. User-en-Ra.
19. S-menkh-ka-Ra Mer-menfiu.
20. ... ka-Ra.
21. S-user-set-Ra.
22. Sokhem-uaz-taui-Ka Sebek-hotep IV.
23. Khâ-seshesh-Ra Nefer-hotep,
        son of Ra-ânkh-f.
24. Si-Hathor-Ra.
25. Khâ-nefer-Ra Sebek-hotop V.
26. [Khâ-ka-Ra].
27. [Khâ-ânkh-Ra Sebek-hotep VI.]
28. Khâ-hotep-Ra Sebek-hotep
        VII., 4 years, 8 months, 29 days.
29. Uab-Ra Âa-ab, 10 years, 8 months, 29 days.
30. Mer-nefer-Ea Ai, 23 (or 13) years, 8 months, 18 days.
31. Mer-hotep-Ra Ana, 2 years, 2 months, 9 days.
32. S-ânkh-en-s-uaztu-Ra, 3 years, 2 months.
33. Mer-sekhem-Ra Andu, 3 years, 1 month.
34. S-uaz-ka-Ra Ur, 5 years, ... months, 8 days.
35. Anemen ... Ra.
36-46. Names lost.
47. Mer-kheper-Ra.
48. Mer-kau-Ra Sebek-hotep VIII.
49-53. Names lost.
54. ... mes-Ra.
55. ... mât-Ra Aba.
56. Nefer-uben-Ra I.
57. ... ka-Ra.
58. S-uaz-en-Ra.
59-60. Names lost.
61. Nehasi-Ra.
62. Khâ-khru-Ra.
63. Neb-f-autu-Ra, 2 years, 5 months, 15 days.
64. S-heb-Ra, 3 years.
65. Mor-zefa-Ra, 3 years.
66. S-uaz-ka-Ra, 1 year.
67. Neb-zofa-Ra, 1 year.
68. Uben-Ra I.
69-70. Names lost.
71. [Neb-] zefa-Ra II., 4 years.
72. [Nefer-] uben-Ea II.
73. Autu-ab-Ra II.
74. Her-ab-Ra.
75. Neb-sen-Ra.
76-79. Names lost.
80. S-kheper-en-Ra.
81. Dad-khru-Ra.
82. S-ânkh-ka-Ra III.
83. Nefer-tum-Ra.
84. Sekhem-...-Ra.
85. Ka-...-Ra.
86. Nefer-ab-Ra.
87. A...ka-Ra.
88. Khâ-...-Ra, 2 years.
89. Nez-ka-...-Ra.
90. S-men-...-Ra.
91-111. Names lost.
112. Sekhem-...-Ra.
113. Sekhem-...-Ra.
114. Sekhem-us...-Ra.
115. Sesen-...-Ra.
116. Neb-ati-uzu-Ra.
117. Neb-aten-uzu-Ra.
118. S-men-ka-Ra.
119. S-user-...-Ra.
120. Khâ-sekhem-[hent]-Ra.

About thirty-seven more names are illegible.

DYNASTIES XV., XVI. AND XVII. (HYKSOS).

According to Josephus, quoted from Mauetho:--

1. Salatis, 13 years. 2. Beon or Bnôn, 44 years. 3. Apakhnas or Pakhnan, 36 years, 7 months.
4. Apôphis, 61 years. 5. Iannas or Annas, 50 years, 1 month. 6. Assis, 49 years, 2 months.
... Ya'qob-hal (Jacob-el). ... Khian (Iannas) S-user-Set-en-Ra. ... Apopi I. Aa-user-Ra (reigned
more than 33 years). ... Apopi III. Ra-âa-kenen.

A dynasty of Theban princes was contemporary with the Seventeenth Hyksos dynasty, the last
four of whom were independent:

Skenen-Ra Taa I. (revolted against Apopi III.). Skenen-Ra Taa II. Aa. Skenen-Ra Taa III. Ken.
Uaz-kheper-Ra Ka-mes and wife Aah-hotep.

DYNASTY XVIII. (THEBAN).

1. Neb-pehuti-Ra Aahmes I. (Amosis), more than 20 years.
2. Ser-ka-Ra Amon-hotep I., his son (Amenophis I,), 20 years, 7 months.
3. Aa-kheper-ka-Ra Dehuti Dehuti-mes I., his son, and queen
   Amen-sit.
4. Aa-kheper-en-Ra Dehuti-mes II., his son (more than 9
   years), and wife (and sister) Hatshepsu II. Mâ-ka-Ra (daughter of
   Hatshepsu I.).
5. Khnum-Amon Hatshepsu II. Mâ-ka-Ra, more than 16 years.
6. Ra-men-kheper Dehuti-mes
        (Thothmes) III., her half-brother,
        57 years, 11
        months, 1 day (B.C. 1503,
        March 20, to 1449 February
        14, according to Dr. Mahler's
        astronomical determination).
7. Aa-khepru-Ra Amon-hotep II., his son, more than 5 years.
8. Men-khepru-Ra Dehuti-mes IV., his son, more than 7 years.
9. Neb-mâ-Ra Amon-hotep III., his son (more than 35 years),
        and wife Teie.
10. Neter-khepru-Ra  Amon-hotep IV. Khu-n-Aten, his
        son, more than 17 years.
11. Ankh-khepru-Ra and wife Meri-Aten.
12. Tut-ânkh-Amon Khepru-neb-Ra and wife Ankh-nes-Amon.
13. Aten-Ra-nefer-nefru--mer-Aten.
14. Ai Kheper-khepru-ar-mâ-Ra, more than 4 years.
15. Hor-em-hib (Armais) Mi-Amon Ser-khepru-ka, more than 3 years.

DYNASTY XIX. (THEBAN).

1. Men-pehuti-Ra Ramessu I.
        (Ramesses), more than 2 years.
2. Men-mâ-Ra Seti I. (Sethos)
        Mer-en-Ptah I., more than 27 years.
3. User-mâ-Ra (Osymandyas)
        Sotep-en-Ra Ramessu II.
        (Ramses) Mi-Amon (the
        Sesostris of the Greeks), B.C.
        1348-1281 (according to Dr.
        Mahler).
4. Mer-en-Ptah II. (Ammenephthes)
        Hotep-hi-ma Ba-n-Ra Mi-Amon.
5. User-khepru-Ra Seti II. Mer-en-Ptah III.
6. Amon-messu Hik-An Mer-kha-Ra Sotep-en-Ra.
7. Khu-n-Ra Sotop-en-Ra Mer-en-Ptah IV. Si-Ptah and wife Ta-user.

DYNASTY XX. (THEBAN).

1. Set-nekht Merer Mi-Amon (recovered the kingdom from the Canaanite
   Arisu).
2. Ramessu III. Hik-an, more than 32 years.
3. Ramessu IV. Hik-Mâ Mi-Amon, more than 11 years.
4. Ramessu V.  User-mâ-s-kheper-en-Ra Mi-Amon, more than 4 years.
5. Ramessu VI. Neb-mâ-Ra Mi-Amon Amon-hir-kho-pesh-ef (called Meri-Tum
   in northern Egypt).
6. Ramessu VII. At-Amon User-mâ-Ra Mi-Amon.
7. Ramessu VIII. Set-hir-kho-pesh-ef Mi-Amon User-mâ-Ra Khu-n-Amon.
8. Ramessu IX. Si-Ptah S-khâ-n-Ra Mi-Amon, 19 years.
9. Ramessu X. Nefer-ka-Ra Mi-Amon Sotep-en-Ra, more than 10 years.
10. Ramessu XI. Amon-hir-kho-pesh-ef Kheper-mâ-Ra Sotep-en-Ra.
11. Ramessu XII. Men-mâ-Ra Mi-Amon Sotep-en-Ptah Khâ-m-uas, more than 27
    years.

DYNASTY XXI. (TANITE).

1. Nes-Bindidi (Smendes) Mi-Amon. 2. P-seb-khâ-n I. (Psusennes I.) Mi-Amon Aa-kheper-Ra Sotep-en-Amon.
3. [Nefer-ka-Ra] (Nephelkheres). 4. Amon-em-apt (Amenophthis). 5. ... (Osokhor). 6. Pinezem
(?) (Psinakhes). 7. Hor-P-seb-khâ-n II. (Psusennes II.).

Contemporary with the Twenty-first dynasty was an illegitimate dynasty of high-priests at Thebes:--

(1.) Hir-Hor Si-Amon. (2.) Piankhi. (3.) Pinezem I. (4.) Pinezem II. with title of "king."
(5.) Men-kheper-Ra and wife Isis-em-kheb. (6.) Pinezem III.

DYNASTY XXII. (BUBASTITE).

1. Shashanq I. (Shishak) Mi-Amon Hez-kheper-Ra Sotep-en-Ra, son of
   Nemart, captain of the Libyan mercenaries, more than 21 years.
2. Usarkon I. Mi-Amon Sek-hem-kheper-Ra.
3. Takelet I. Mi-Amon Si-Isis User-mâ-Ra Sotep-en-Amon, more than 23
   years.
4. Usarkon II. Mi-Amon Si-Bast User-mâ-Ra, more than 23 years.
5. Shashanq II. Mi-Amon Sek-hem-kheper-Ra.
6. Takelet II. Mi-Amon Si-Isis Hez-kheper-Ra, more than 15 years.
7. Shashanq III. Mi-Amon Si-Bast User-mâ-Ra, 52 years.
8. Pimai Mi-Amon User-mâ-Ra Sotep-en-Amon.
9. Shashanq IV. Aa-kheper-Ra, more than 37 years.

DYNASTY XXIII.

1. S-hir-ab-Ra Petu-si-Bast. 2. Usarkon III. P-si-Mut User-Ra Sotep-en-Ptah.

Interregnum.

Egypt is divided between several princes, including Tef-nekht, father of Bak-en-ran-ef. It
is overrun by Piankhi the Ethiopian, while Usarkon III. reigns at Bubastis. The son and successor
of Piankhi was Mi-Amon-Nut.

DYNASTY XXIV. (SAITE).

Bak-en-ran-ef (Bokkhoris) Uah-ka-Ra, more than 16 years.

DYNASTY XXV. (ETHIOPIAN).

1. Shabaka (Sabako) Nefer-ka-Ra, son of Kashet, 12 years. 2. Shabatoka (Sebikhos) Dad-ka-Ra.
3. Taharka (Tirhakah) Nefer-Tum-khu-Ra, 26 years.

Interregnum.

Egypt is conquered by the Assyrian king Esar-haddon, and divided into 20 satrapies, B.C. 672-660.
Taharka and his successor Urdamanu (Rud-Amon), or Tan-damanu (Tuant-Amon), make vain attempts
to recover it. Finally, Psamtik, son of Niku (Necho), satrap of Sais, shakes off the foreign yoke.

DYNASTY XXVI. (SAITE).

                                                      B.C.
1. Psamtik I. (Psammeti-khos) Uah-ab-Ra               664
2. Nekau (Necho) Nem-ab-Ra                            610
3. Psamtik II. Nefer-ab-Ra                            594
4. Uah-ab-Ra (Apries or Hophra) Haa-ab-Ra             589
5. Aahmes II. (Amasis) Si-Nit Khnum-ab-Ra             570
6. Psamtik III. Ankh-ka-n-Ra                          526

DYNASTY XXVII. (PERSIAN).

1. Kambathet (Cambyses), Sam-taui Mestu-Ra            525 2. Ntariush (Darius I.) Settu-Ra
521 3. Khabbash Senen Tanen Sotep-en-Ptah, native prince  485 4. Khsherish (Xerxes)       
484 5. Artakhsharsha (Artaxerxes)                         465 6. Ntariush (Darius II.) Mi-Amon-Ra
424

DYNASTY XXVIII. (SAITE).

Amon-art-t-rut (Amyrtæus), more than 6 years          415

DYNASTY XXIX. (MENDESIAN).

1. Nef-âa-rut I. Ba-n-Ra Mi-neteru, more than 4 years. 2. Hakori Khnum-mâ-Râ Sotep-en-Ptah,
13 years. 3. P-si-Mut User-Ptah-sotep-en-Ra, 1 year. 4. Hor-neb-kha, 1 year. 5. Nef-âa-rut
II., 1 year.

DYNASTY XXX. (SEBENNYTE).

1. Nekht-Hor-hib Ra-snezem-ab Sotep-en-Anhur, son of Nef-âa-rut I., 19
   years.
2. Zihu (Teos), 1 year.
3. Nekht-neb-ef (Nektanebo) Kheper-ka-Ra, 18 years.

Egypt reconquered by the Persians, B.C. 349.

II

BABYLONIAN CHRONOLOGY

En-sag-saganna, king of Kengi.

Lugal-zaggisi, king of Erech, founds an empire in western Asia cir. B.C. 5000 (?).

KINGS OF LAGAS, cir. B.C. 4000.

Ur-duggina. Lugal-suggur, vassal of Me-sa, king of Kis. Gursar. Nini-khaldu, his son. Ur-Nina,
his son. Akur-gal, his son. E-annatum, his son. En-annadu I., his brother, high-priest. Entemena,
his nephew, high-priest. En-annadu II., high-priest.

Lugal-usum-gal, vassal of Sargon of Akkad.

KINGS OF KIS.

Me-sa. Enne-Ugun. Alusarsid. Lugal-khassi.

DYNASTY OF AGADE (AKKAD).

Sargon or Sargani-sar-ali, B.C. 3800. Naram-Sin, his son, B.C. 3750. Bingani-sar-ali, his son.
Queen Ellat-Gula (?).

FIRST DYNASTY OF UR.

Lugal-kigub-nidudu. Lugal-kisal-si, his son.

SECOND DYNASTY OF UR.

Ur-Bau, cir. B.C. 2700; his step-son, Nammakhani, high-priest of Lagas. Dungi I., his son;
Gudea and his son, Ur-Nin-girsu, vassal high-priests of Lagas.

DYNASTY OF ERECH.

Sin-gamil. Sin-gasid.

DYNASTY OF ISIN.

Isbi-girra. Libit-Istar. Pur-Sin I. Ur-Ninip. Isme-Dagan. En-annatum, his son, vassal of Gungunum
of Ur.

THIRD DYNASTY OF UR.

Gungunum. Dungi II. (reigns at least 41 years). Pur-Sin II. (reigns at least 12 years). Gimil-Sin
(reigns at least 9 years). Inê-Sin (probably followed by Sumu-abi).

FIRST DYNASTY OF BABYLON, B.C. 2478.

Sumu-abi or Samu-abi, 14 (or 15) years.[12] Sumu-la-ilu, his son, 36 (or 35) years. Zabium
or Zabu, his son, 14 years. Abil-Sin, his son, 18 years. Sin-muballidh, his son, 20 (or 30) years.

Babylonia conquered by the Elamites; Kudur-Laghghamar (Chedor-laomer) king of Elam is suzerain,
while Eri-Aku (Arioch) governs southern Babylonia and makes Larsa his capital.

Khammurabi or Ammurapi, the Amraphel of Genesis, 43 (or 55) years (B.C. 2376-2333). He defeats
the Elamites, restores Sin-idinnam to Larsa, and reunites Babylonia. Samsu-iluna, his son,
38 (or 35) years. Abesukh (Abishua) or Ebisum, 25 years. Ammi-ditana, his son, 25 years. Ammi-zadok,
his son, 21 years. Samsu-ditana, his son, 31 years.

DYNASTY OF SISKU, B.C. 2174.

Anman, 60 years. Ki-annibi, 56 years. Damki-ilisu, 26 years. Iskipal, 15 years. Sussi, 24 years.
Gulkisar, 55 years. Kirgal-daramas, 50 years. Â-dara-kalamma, 28 years. E-kur-ul-anna, 26 years.
Melamma-kurkurra, 8 years. Ea-ga ... 20 years.

THE DYNASTY OF THE KASSITES, B.C. 1806.[13]

Gandis, 16 years. Agum-si, 22 years. Agu-yasi, 22 years. Ussi, his son, 9 years. Adumetas.
Tazzigurumas. Agum-kak-rime, his son.

Eight unknown kings. Kara-indas. Kadasman-Bel (corresponded with the Egyptian king Amenophis
III.) Kuri-galzu I. Burna-huryas, his son. Kuri-galzu II., his son.[14] Kara-khardas. Kadasman-kharbe
I., his son.

The throne usurped by Nazi-bugas. Kuri-galzu III., son of Kadas-man-kharbe, 35 (?) years. Nazi-Maruttas,
his son, 26 years, B.C. 1378. Kadasman-Turgu, his son, 17 years. Kadasman-buryas, 14 years.
Kudur-Bel, 6 years. Sagarkti-buryas, his son, 13 years (800 years before Nabonidos). Bibeyasu,
8 years. Bel-sum-iddin, 1-1/2 year. Kadasman-kharbe II., 1-1/2 year. Rimmon-sum-uzur, 30 years
(including the 7 years during which the Assyrian king Tig-lath-Bir held Babylon). Meli-sipak,
15 years. Merodach-baladan I., his son, 13 years. Zamama-sum-iddin, 1 year. Bel-sum-iddin, 3 years.

THE DYNASTY OF ISIN, B.C. 1229.

Merodach- ... 18 years. Four unknown kings. Nebuchadrezzar I. Bel-nadin-pal. Merodach-nadin-akhi,
22 years.[15] Merodach- ... 1-1/2 year.

The throne usurped by Rimmon-baladan. Merodach-sapik-zer-mati,  12 years. Nabu-nadin, 8 years.

THE DYNASTY OF THE SEA-COAST, B.C. 1096.

Simbar-sipak, 18 years. Ea-mukin-zeri, 5 months. Kassu-nadin-akhi, 3 years.

THE DYNASTY OF BIT-BAZI, B.C. 1075.

Ê-Ulmas-sakin-sumi, 17 years. Bir-kudur-uzur I., 3 years. Silanim-Sukamuna, 3 months.

THE DYNASTY OF ELAM, B.C. 1055.

An ..., an Elamite, 6 years.

THE SECOND DYNASTY OF BABYLON, B.C. 1049.

Nebo-kin abli, 36 years. Bir-kudur-uzur II. (?), 8 months, 12 days. Probably four names missing.

                                                          B.C.
Samas-mudammik                                        cir. 920
Nebo-sum-iskun                                        cir. 900
Nebo-baladan                                          cir. 880
Merodach-nadin-sumi.                                  cir. 860
Merodach-baladhsu-ikbi                                cir. 830
Bau-akhi-iddin                                        cir. 810

Probably two names missing.

Nebo-sum-iskun, son of Dakuri                         cir. 760 Nabonassar, 14 years       
747 Nebo-nadin-sumi, his son, 2 years                          733 Nebo-sum-yukin, his son,
1 month, 12 days                  731

THE DYNASTY OF SAPÊ.

Yukin-zera or Khinziros, 3 years                           730 Pulu (Pul or Poros), called
Tiglath-pileser III. in Assyria, 2 years                   727 Ululâ, called Shalmaneser IV.
in Assyria                   725

Merodach-baladan II the Chaldæan from the Sea-coast        721
Sargon of Assyria                                          709
Sennacherib, his son                                       705
Merodach-zakir-sumi, 1 month                               702
Merodach-baladan III., 6 months                            702
Bel-ebus of Babylon                                        702
Assur-nadin-sumi, son of Sennacherib                       700
Nergal-yusezib                                             694
Musezib-Merodach                                           693
Sennacherib a second time                                  689
Esar-haddon, his son                                       681
Samas-sum-yukin (Saos-du-khinos), his son                  668
Kandalanu (Kineladanos)                                    648
Nabopolassar                                               626
Nabu-kudurri-uzur (Nebuchadrezzar II.), his son            605
Amil-Marduk (Evil-Merodach), his son                       662
Nergal-sarra-uzur (Nergal-sharezer)                        560
Labasi-Marduk (Laborosoar-chod), his son, 3 months.        556
Nabu-nahid (Nabonidos)                                     556
Cyrus conquers Babylon                                     538
                                                           B.C.
Cambyses, his son                                          529
Gomates (Gaumata) the Magian usurps the throne, 7 months   521
Nebuchadrezzar III., native king                           521
Darius (Dârayavaush), son of Hystaspes                     520
Nebuchadrezzar IV., rebel king                             514
Darius restored                                            513
Xerxes I. (Khshayârshâ), his son                           485
Samas-erba, rebel king                                     480
Xerxes restored                                            479
Artaxerxes I. (Artakhshatra) Longimanus, his son           465
Xerxes II., his son, 2 months                              425
Sogdianos, his half-brother, 7 months                      425
Darius II. Nothos, his brother                             424
Artaxerxes II. Mnêmon, his son                             405
Okhos (Uvasu), son of Artaxerxes                           362
Arses, his son                                             339
Darius III. Kodomannos                                     336
Conquered by Alexander the Great                           330

[Footnote 12: The first date is that of a chronological tablet compiled in the reign of Ammi-zadok;
the second that of the Dynastic Tablet compiled probably in the reign of Nabonidos. In the
latter the reigns of illegitimate kings, Pungun-ilu, Immerum, and Eri-Aku, seem to be included
in those of the legitimate rulers of the dynasty. Immerum, the son of Lilium, was a contemporary
of Sumu-la-ilu, and perhaps, like Nur-Rimmon and Sin-idinnam in the time of Sin-muballidh and
Khammurabi, was vassal king of Larsa in southern Babylonia.]

[Footnote 13: The date is probably from 15 to 20 years too high.]

[Footnote 14: The position of this Kuri-galzu is not certain. One of the Kuri-galzus calls
himself "son of Burna-buryas," but since Nabonidos states that a Burna-buryas reigned 700 years
after Khammurabi, it is possible that among the eight (or in this ease nine) unknown Kassite
kings there was a Burna-buryas I., B.C. 1640, whose son was Kuri-galzu I.]

[Footnote 15: As Sennacherib makes Merodach-nadin-akhi defeat the Assyrians in B.C. 1107, while
the Dynastic Tablet places the death of the Babylonian king in B.C. 1118, there must be a chronological
error in the latter.]

III

ASSYRIAN CHRONOLOGY

Sargon asserts that he was preceded by 330 Assyrian kings, among the earlier of them being
Adasi and his son Bel-bani.

HIGH-PRIESTS OF ASSUR.

                                                   B.C.
Isme-Dagon                                         1850
Samsi-Rimmon I., his son                           1820
Igur-kapkapu                                        (?)
Samsi-Rimmon II., his son                           (?)
Khallu                                              (?)
Irisum, his son                                     (?)

     KINGS OF ASSYRIA.

Bel-kapkapu, "the founder
  of the monarchy."
Assur-suma-esir                                     (?)
Bir-tuklat-Assur, his son,
 (contemporary of the
 Babylonian king Kharbe-sipak).
Erba-Rimmon                                         (?)
Assur-nadin-akhe I., his son                        (?)
Assur-bil-nisi-su                             cir. 1450
Buzur-Assur                                        1440
Assur-nadin-akhe II.                               1420
Assur-yuballidh, his son cir                       1400
Bel-nirari, his son                                1380
Pudilu (Pedael), his son                           1360
Rimmon-nirari I., his son                          1340
Shalmaneser I., his son (the builder of Calah)     1320
Tiglath-Bir I., his son                            1300
Conquers Babylon and reigns there 7 years          1290
Assur-nazir-pal I., his son, 6 years               1280
Tiglath-Asaur-Bel                                  1275
Assur-narara                                       1260
Nebo-dan, his son                                  1250
Bel-kudurri-uzur.                                  1225
Bir-pileser                                        1215
Assur-dan I., his son[16]                          1185
Mutaggil-Nebo, his son                             1160
Assur-ris-isi, his son[17]                         1140
Tiglath-pileser I., his son                        1120
Assur-bil-kala, his son                            1090
Samsi-Rimmon I., his brother                       1070
Assur-nazir-pal II., his son                       1050

Assur-irbi                                          (?)
Tiglath-pileser II                                  950
Assur-dan II., his son                              930
Rimmon-nirari II., his son                          911
Tiglath-Bir II., his son                            889
Assur-nazir-pal III. his son                        883
Shalmaneser II., his son                            858
Assur-dain-pal (Sardana-pallos), rebel king         825
Samsi-Rimmon II., his brother                       823
Rimmon-nirari II., his son                          810
Shalmaneser III.                                    781
Assur-dân III.                                      771
Assur-nirari                                        753
Pulu (Pul), usurper, takes
  the name of Tiglath-pileser  III.                 745
Conquers Babylon                                    729
Ululâ, usurper, takes the name of Shalmaneser IV.   727
Sargon, usurper                                     722
Sennacherib (Sin-akhe-erba), his son                705
Esar-haddon (Assur-akh-iddin), his son              681
Assur-bani-pal, his son                             668
Assur-etil-ilani-yukinni, his son                   (?)
Sin-sarra-iskun (Sarakos)                           (?)
Destruction of Nineveh                              606

[Footnote 16: A contemporary of the Babylonian king Zamama-sum-iddin. If this is the last king
but one of the Kassite dynasty, and not rather one of the unknown kings of the dynasty of Isin,
the date of Assurdan I. will have to be pushed about 40 years further back.]

[Footnote 17: A contemporary of the Babylonian king Nebuchadrezzar I.]

IV

HEBREW CHRONOLOGY AS CORRECTED BY THE ASSYRIAN MONUMENTS

The Israelitish Exodus out of Egypt in the fifth year of Meneptah, son
  of Ramses II.                                                     1276
Campaign of Ramses III. in southern Palestine                  cir. 1230
Chushan-rishathaim of Aram-Naharaim or Mitanni conquers Canaan cir. 1225
Saul elected King of Israel                                    cir. 1020
Accession of David                                             cir. 1000
Accession of Solomon                                            cir. 960
Accession of Rehoboam, division of the kingdom                  cir. 930
Invasion of Palestine by Shishak I. of Egypt                         927

JUDAH.

Rehoboam (17 years)                  cir. 932 Abijah                                    915
Asa                                       912 Jehoshapbat                               871
Jeboram                                   846 Ahaziah or Jehoahaz                       842
Athaliah                                  842 Joash                                     837
Amaziah                                   797 Uzziah or Azariah                         768
Jotham                                    736 Ahaz                                      734
Becomes tributary to Tig-lath-pileser     734 Damascus taken by the Assyrians           732
Hezekiah                                  727 Invasion of Judah by Sennacherib          701
Manasseh                                  697 Amon                                      642
Josiah                                    640 Jehoahaz                                  608
Jehoiakim                                 608 Jehoiachin                                597
Zedekiah                                  597 Jerusalem destroyed by Nebuchadrezzar     586

ISRAEL.

Jeroboam (22 years)              932
Nadab                            910
Baasha                           908
Elah                             884
Zimri, for 7 days                882
Omri                             882
Ahab                             874
Ahab and his allies defeated
  by the Assyrians at Qarqar     853
Ahaziah                          852
Revolt of Mesha of Moab          851
Joram                            850
Jehu                             842
He pays tribute to Assyria       841
Jehoanaz                         814
Jehoash                          798
Jeroboam II.                     783
Zeohariah                        742
Shallum                          741
Menahem                          741
Pays tribute to Tiglath-pileser  738
Pekahiah                         737
Pekah                            736
Hoshea                    733 or 729
Samaria taken by the Assyrians   722

V

THE LETTERS OF EBEB-TOB (OR EBED KHEBA), VASSAL KING OF JERUSALEM, TO AMENOPHIS IV., KING OF EGYPT

I. "To the king my lord thus speaks Ehed-Tob thy servant: At the feet of the king my lord seven
times seven I prostrate myself. What have I done against the king my lord? They have slandered
me before the king my lord, saying: Ebed-Tob has revolted from the king his lord. Behold, neither
my father nor my mother have exalted me in this place; the arm of the Mighty King has made
me enter the house of my father. Why should I have committed a sin against the king my lord?
By the life of the king, I say to the Commissioner of the king my lord: Why dost thou love
the Khabiri (Confederates) and hate the (loyal) governors? And yet continually are they slandering
me before the king my lord, because I say that the provinces of the king my lord are being
destroyed. Continually are they slandering me to the king my lord. But let the king my lord
consider, since the king my lord has established the garrisons which have taken the fortresses
... may the king send help to his country. [May he send troops] to his country! The cities
of the king my lord are lost which Elimelech is destroying, even all the country of the king;
so let the king my lord send help to his country. I say: I will go down to the king my lord,
and shall I not see the tears of the king my lord? but the enemy are strong against me, and
I have not been able to go down to the king my lord. So let the king incline towards my face
and despatch a garrison to me, and I will go down and see the tears of the king my lord. Since
by the life of the king, when the Commissioner departed, I say: The provinces of the king are
being destroyed, (yet) thou dost not listen to me. All the governors are destroyed, no governor
remains to the king my lord. May the king turn his face to the men and send the troops of the
king my lord. No provinces remain unto the king; the Khabiri have wasted all the provinces
of the king. If troops come this year, the provinces of the king my lord will be preserved;
but if no troops come, the provinces of the king my lord will be destroyed.--To the Secretary
of the king my lord, Ebed-Tob thy servant: make a clear report of my words to the king my lord
that all the provinces of the king my lord are being destroyed."

II. Behold, the king my lord has established his name at the rising of the sun and the setting
of the sun. They have uttered slanders against me. Behold, I am not a governor, a dependent
of the king my lord. Behold, I am the king's friend, and I pay tribute to the king, even I.
Neither my father nor my mother, but the arm of the Mighty King has established me in the house
of my father. [When the governor of the king my lord] came to me, I gave him 13 prisoners (?)
and 10 slaves. Sûta (Seti) the Commissioner of the king came to me; I gave 21 slavewomen and
20 male prisoners into the hands of Sûta as a present for the king my lord. May the king give
counsel to his country! The country of the king is being destroyed, all of it. Hostilities
are being carried on against me. Behold, the mountains of Seir (see Josh, xv. 10) as far as
Gath-Carmel have united against all the other governors and are at war with myself. If one
looks, shall not one see the tears of the king my lord because war has been made upon me? While
there were ships in the midst of the sea the arm of the Mighty King possessed Naharaim and
Babylonia, but now the Khabiri possess the cities of the king (of Egypt). Not a single governor
remains (among them) to the king my lord; all are destroyed. Behold, Turbazu has been slain
in the gate of the city of Zilû (Zelah), and the king does nothing. Behold, Zimrida of Lachish
has been thrown to the ground by (his) servants and murdered. Yaptikh-Addu (Jephthah-Hadad)
has been slain in the gate of the city of Zilû, and the king does nothing.... Let the king
[my lord] send help [to his country], let the king turn his face [to his servants]. Let him
despatch troops to the country [of Jerusalem]. [Behold], if no troops come this year, all the
provinces of the king my lord will be utterly destroyed. They do not tell to the face of the
king my lord that the country of the king my lord is destroyed and all the governors are destroyed.
If no troops come this year, let the king send a Commissioner, and let him come to me with
allies, and we will die with the king our lord.--To the Secretary of the king my lord, Ebed-Tob
thy servant: At thy feet [I prostrate myself]. Make a clear report of these my words to the
king my lord that thy faithful servant am I."

III. "To the king my lord thus speaks Ebed-Tob thy servant: at the feet of my lord the king
seven times seven I prostrate myself. Behold, has not Malchiel revolted to the sons of Labai
and the sons of Arzai to demand the country of the king for themselves? As for the governor
who does this deed, why does not the king question him? Behold, Malchiel and Tagi (the father-in-law
of Malchiel) are they who have done this, since they have taken the city of Rubutê (Rabbah,
Josh. xv. 60).... There is no royal garrison. May the king live for ever! Verily Pûru (Pa-Hor)
has gone down to him; he has left me and is in the city of Gaza. But let the king remember
him and send fifty men as a garrison to defend the country. All the country of the king has
revolted. Send Yikhbil-Khamu, and let him consider the country of the king. I am thy servant.'"

IV. The country of the king has gone over to the Khabiri. And now at this moment the city of
the mountain of Jerusalem (Uru-salim), whose name is Bit-Bir (the temple of the god Bir), the
city of the king, is separated from the locality of the men of Keilah. Let the king listen
to Ebed-Tob thy servant, and let him despatch troops that I may restore the country of the
king to the king. But if no troops arrive, the country of the king is gone over to the Khabiri.
This is the deed of Suardatum and Malchiel. But may the king send help to his country."

V. The commencement is lost.--"And now as to the city of Jerusalem, if this country belongs
to the king, why is it that Gaza is made the seat of the garrison for the king? Behold, the
country of the city of Gath-Carmel has fallen away to Tagi and the men of Gath. He is in Bit-Sâni,
and we have effected that they should give Labai and the country of the Bedâwin (Suta) to the
Khabiri. Malchiel has sent to Tagi and takes his sons as servants. He has granted all their
requests to the men of Keilah, and we have delivered the city of Jerusalem. The garrison whom
thou sentest by the hand of Khapi (Apis), the son of Miyaria (Meri-Ra) Hadad-el has taken and
has established in his house in Gaza." Behold, the country of the cities of Gezer, of Askalon
and of Lachish have given them food, oil, and whatever they wanted; so let the king send help
to the troops and despatch troops against the men who have committed sin against the king my
lord. If troops come this year, then there will remain both provinces and governors to the
king my lord; but if no troops arrive, there will remain no provinces or governors to the king
my lord. Behold, this country of the city of Jerusalem neither my father nor my mother has
given to me; the arm of the Mighty King gave it to me, even to me. Behold, this is the deed
of Malchiel and the deed of the sons of Labai, who have given the country of the king to the
Khabiri. Behold, O king my lord, be just towards me as regards the Babylonians; let the king
ask the Commissioners whether they have acted violently (?). But they have taken upon themselves
a very grievous sin. They have taken their goods and ... let the king ask (them); they had
abundance of food, abundance of oil and abundance of clothes, until Pauru the Commissioner
of the king came up to the country of the city of Jerusalem, and Adai revolted, together with
the garrison and the dependents upon the king. Let the king know that (Pauru) said to me: Adai
has revolted from me, do not leave the city. This [year] send me a garrison and a royal Commissioner.
Let thy favour be towards me. I have sent to the king my lord 5000 prisoners and ... tribute-bearers.
The caravans of the king have been robbed in the field of Ajalon. Let the king my lord know
that I am not able to send a caravan to the king my lord according to thy instructions. Abundance
of good fortune to thee!--And thou hast performed deeds I cannot enumerate against the men
of the land of Cush. ... bana is not slain. There are Babylonians in my house. Let the king
my lord ask in regard to them..."

       *       *       *       *       *

LETTER OF SUWARDATUM TO AMENOPHIS IV.

"To the king my lord, my gods, my Sun-god, thus speaks Suwardata thy servant, the dust of thy
feet: at the feet of the king my lord, my gods, my Sun-god, seven times seven I prostrate myself.
The king my lord directed me to make war in the city of Keilah; I made war; it is (now) at
peace with me; my city is restored to me. Why does Ebed-Tob send to the men of Keilah, saying:
'Take silver and march after me'? And the king my lord knows that Ebed-Tob has taken my city
out of my hand. Again let the king my lord inquire whether I have taken a man, or an ox, or
an ass from him or his jurisdiction. Again Labai is the conspirator who had taken our cities,
and now Labai has taken Ebed-Tob, and they have taken our cities. And the king knows. To his
servant let him grant power, for I did not know they had done anything until the king had sent
an account of it to his servant."

       *       *       *       *       *

LETTER FROM LABAI TO AMENOPHIS IV. I have heard the words which the king has sent to me, and
here am I, and the king apportions his country unto me. Behold, I am a faithful servant of
the king, and I have not sinned, and I have not offended, and I do not withhold my tribute,
and I do not refuse the requests of the Commissioner that is set over me. Behold, they have
slandered me, and the king my lord will not be hard on my offence. Again it is an offence in
me that I have entered the city of Gezer and ordered the city to assemble, saying, 'The king
has taken my property and the property of Malchiel.' How could I know what Malchiel has done
against me? Again the king has written to Bin-Sumya; he does not know that Bin-Sumya has marched
along with the Bedâwin, and lo, I have delivered him into the hand of Adda-dan. Again, if the
king sends for my wife, how shall I withhold her; and if the king writes to myself, 'Plunge
an iron sword in thy heart and die,' how shall I not perform the commandment of the king?"

IV

THE MOABITE STONE

(See page 112)

1. I am Mesha the son of Chemosh-melech, king of Moab, the Dibonite.

2. My father reigned over Moab thirty years, and I reigned

3. after my father. I made this monument to (the god) Chemosh at Korkhah, as a monument

4. of salvation, for he saved me from all invaders, and let me see my desire upon all my enemies.
Omri

5. was king of Israel, and he oppressed Moab many days, for Chemosh was angry with his

6. land. His son followed him, and he also said: I will oppress Moab. In my days [Chemosh] said:

7. I will see my desire on him and his house, and Israel shall surely perish for ever. Omri
took the land of

8. Medeba (Numb. xxi. 30), and [Israel] dwelt in it during his days and half the days of his
son, altogether forty years. But there dwelt in it

9. Chemosh in my days. I built Baal-Meon (Josh. xiii. 17) and made therein the reservoirs; I built

10. Kirjathain (Numb, xxxii. 37). The men of Gad dwelt in the land of Ataroth (Numb, xxxii.
3) from of old, and the king of Israel built there

11. (the town) of Ataroth; but I made war against the town and took it. And I slew all the [people]

12. of the town, for the pleasure of Chemosh and Moab. I took from thence the Ariel (champion)
of (the god) Doda and tore

13. him before Chemosh in Kerioth (Jer. xlviii. 24). And I placed therein the men of Sharon
and the men

14. of Me-khereth. And Chemosh said unto me: Go, seize Nebo upon Israel; and

15. I went in the night and fought against it from the break of dawn till noon; and I took

16. it, and slew all (therein), 7000 men, [boys], women, [girls],

17. and female slaves, and devoted them to Ashtor-Chemosh. And I took from it the Ariels of
Yahveh, and tore them before Chemosh. And the king of Israel had built

18. Jahaz (Isa. xv. 4), and dwelt in it, whilst he waged war against me, (but) Chemosh drove
him out before me. And

19. I brought from Moab 200 men, all chiefs, and carried them to Jahaz, which I took

20. to add to it Dibon. I built Korkhah, the wall of the forests and the wall

21. of the citadel: I built its gates and I built its towers. And

22. I built the temple of Moloch, and I made sluices of the water-ditches in the middle

23. of the town. And there was no cistern in the middle of the town of Korkhah, and I said
to all the people: Make for

24. yourselves every man a cistern in his house. And I dug the canals for Korkhah by means
of the prisoners

25. of Israel. I built Aroer and I made the road in [the province of] the Arnon. [And]

26. I built Beth-Bamoth, for it was destroyed. I built Bezer (Deut. iv. 43), for [it was] in ruins.

27. [And all the chiefs] of Dibou were fifty, for all Dibon was subject (to me); and I placed

28. 100 [chiefs] in the towns which I added to the land. I built

29. Beth-Medeba (Numb. xxi. 30), and Beth-diblathain (Jer. xlviii. 22), and Beth-baal-meon,
and transported thereto the ...

30. [and the shepherds] of the flocks of the land. And at Horonaim (Isa. xv. 5) there dwelt...

31. ... And Chemosh said unto me: Go down, make war upon Horonaim. I went down [and made war]

32. [and took the city]; and Chemosh dwelt in it in my days. I went up from thence ...

33. ... And I ...

VII

THE TREATY BETWEEN RAMSES II. AND THE HITTITES (Brugsch's Translation)

(See page 79)

In the year 21, in the month of Tybi, on the 21st day of the month, in the reign of King Ramessu
Mi-Amun, the dispenser of life eternally and for ever, the worshipper of the divinities Amun-Ra
(of Thebes), Hor-em-khu (of Heliopolis), Ptah (of Memphis), Mut the lady of the Asher Lake
(at Karnak), and Khonsu the peace-loving, there took place a public sitting on the throne of
Horus among the living, resembling his father, Hor-em-khu in eternity, in eternity, evermore.

On that day the king was in the city of Ramses, presenting his peace-offerings to his father
Amun-Ra and to the gods Hor-em-khu-Tum, the lord of Heliopolis (On), and to Amun of Ramessu
Mi-Amun, to Ptah of Ramessu Mi-Amun, and to Sutekh, the strong, the son of Nut the goddess
of heaven, that they might grant to him many thirty years' jubilee feasts, and innumerable
happy years, and the subjection of all peoples under his feet for ever.

Then came forward the ambassador of the king and the governor [of his house, by name ..., and
presented the ambassadors] of the great king of the Hittites, Khata-sir, who were sent to Pharaoh
to propose friendship with the king Ramessu Mi-Amun, the dispenser of life, eternally and for
ever, just as his father, the Sun-god [dispenses it] each day.

This is the copy of the contents of the silver tablet which the great king of the Hittites,
Khata-sir, had caused to be made, and which was presented to the Pharaoh by the hand of his
ambassador Tar-tisubu and his ambassador Rames, to propose friendship to the king Ramessu Mi-Amun,
the bull among the princes, who places his boundary-marks where it pleases him in all lands.

The treaty which had been proposed by the great king of the Hittites, Khata-sir, the powerful,
the son of Mar-sir, the great king of the Hittites, the powerful, the grandson of Sapalili,
the great king of the Hittites, the powerful, on the silver tablet, to Ramessu Mi-Amun, the
great prince of Egypt, the powerful--this was a good treaty for friendship and concord, which
assured peace [and established concord] for a longer period than was previously the case for
a long time. For it was the agreement of the great prince of Egypt in common with the great
king of the Hittites that the god should not allow enmity to exist between them, on the basis
of a treaty.

To wit, in the times of Mutal, the great king of the Hittites, my brother, he was at war with
[Meneptah Seti I.] the great prince of Egypt.

But now, from this very day forward, Khata-sir, the great king of the Hittites, shall look
upon this treaty so that the agreement may remain which the Sun-god Ra has made, which the
god Sutekh has made, for the people of Egypt and for the people of the Hittites, that there
should be no enmity between them for evermore.

And these are the contents:--

Khata-sir, the great king of the Hittites, is in covenant with Ramessu Mi-Amun, the great prince
of Egypt, from this very day forward, that there may subsist a good friendship and a good understanding
between them for evermore.

He shall be my ally; he shall be my friend. I will be his ally; I will be his friend, for ever.

To wit: in the time of Mutal, the great king of the Hittites, his brother Khata-sir, after
his murder, placed himself on the throne of his father as the great king of the Hittites I
strove for friendship with Ramessu Mi-Amun, the great prince of Egypt, and it is [my wish]
that the friendship and the concord may be better than the friendship and the concord which
before existed, and which was broken.

I declare: I, the great king of the Hittites, will hold together with [Ramessu Mi-Amun] the
great prince of Egypt, in good friendship and good concord. The sons of the sons of the great
king of the Hittites will hold together and be friends with the sons of the sons of Ramessu
Mi-Amun, the great prince of Egypt.

In virtue of our treaty for concord, and in virtue of our agreement [for friendship, let the
people] of Egypt [be bound in friendship] with the people of the Hittites. Let a like friendship
and a like concord subsist in such measure for ever.

Never let enmity rise between them. Never let the great king of the Hittites invade the land
of Egypt, if anything has been plundered from it (i.e. the land of the Hittites). Never let
Ramessu Mi-Amun, the great prince of Egypt, overstep the boundary [of the land of the Hittites],
if anything shall have been plundered from [the land of Egypt].

The just treaty which existed in the times of Sapalili, the great king of the Hittites, likewise
the just treaty which existed in the times of Mutal, the great king of the Hittites, my brother,
that will I keep.

Ramessu Mi-Amun, the great prince of Egypt, declares that he will keep it. [We have come to
an understanding about it] with one another at the same time from this day forward, and we
will fulfil it, and will act in a righteous manner.

If another shall come as an enemy to the lands of Ramessu Mi-Amun, the great prince of Egypt,
then let him send an embassy to the great king of the Hittites to this effect: "Come and make
me stronger than him." Then shall the great king of the Hittites [assemble his warriors], and
the king of the Hittites [shall come] and smite his enemies. But if it should not be the wish
of the great king of the Hittites to march out in person, then he shall send his warriors and
his chariots that they may smite his enemies. Otherwise [he would incur] the wrath of Ramessu
Mi-Amun [the great prince of Egypt. And if Ramessu Mi-Amun, the great prince of Egypt, should
banish for a crime] subjects from his country, and they should commit further crime against
him, then shall the king of the Hittites come forward to kill them. The great king of the Hittites
shall act in common with [the great prince of Egypt].

[If another should come as an enemy to the lands of the great king of the Hittites, then shall
he send an embassy to the great prince of Egypt with the request that] he would come in great
power to kill his enemies; and if it be the intention of Ramessu Mi-Amun, the great prince
of Egypt, (himself) to come, he shall [smite the enemies of the great king of the Hittites.
If it is not the intention of the great prince of Egypt to march out in person, then he shall
send his warriors and his two-] horse chariots, while he sends back the answer to the people
of the Hittites.

If any subjects of the great king of the Hittites have offended him, then Ramessu Mi-Amun [the
great prince of Egypt, shall not receive them in his land, but shall advance to kill them]
... the oath with the wish to say, I will go ... until ... Ramessu Mi-Amun, the great prince
of Egypt, living for ever ... that he may be given for them (?) to the lord, and that Ramessu
Mi-Amun, the great prince of Egypt, may speak according to his agreement for evermore ...

[If servants shall flee away] out of the territories of Ramessu Mi-Amun [the great prince of
Egypt, to betake themselves to] the great king of the Hittites, the great king of the Hittites
shall not receive them, but the great king of the Hittites shall give them up to Ramessu Mi-Amun,
the great prince of Egypt [that they may be punished].

If servants of Ramessu Mi-Amun, the great prince of Egypt, leave his country and betake themselves
to the land of the Hittites, to make themselves servants of another, they shall not remain
in the land of the Hittites [but shall be given up] to Ramessu Mi-Amuu, the great prince of Egypt.

[And if there shall leave the land of the Hittites persons] of skilled mind, so that they come
to the land of Egypt to make themselves servants of another, then Ramessu Mi-Amun shall not
allow them to settle, he shall deliver them up to the great king of the Hittites.

When this [treaty] shall be known [by the inhabitants of the land of Egypt and of the land
of the Hittites, then shall they not offend against it, for all that stands written upon] the
silver tablet, these are words which will have been approved by the company of the gods, among
the male deities and among the female deities, among those namely of the land of the Hittites,
and by the company of the gods, among the male deities and among the female deities, among
those namely of the land of Egypt. They are witnesses for me [to the validity] of these words.

This is the catalogue of the gods of the land of the Hittites:--

     [Sutekh of the city of] Tump (Tennib).
     Sutekh of the land of the Hittites.
     Sutekh of the city of Arnema.
     Sutekh of the city of Zaranda,
     Sutekh of the city of Pairaka.
     Sutekh of the city of Khisasap.
     Sutekh of the city of Sarsu.
     Sutekh of the city of Aleppo.
     Sutekh of the city of ...
     [Sutekh of the city of ...]
     Sutekh of the city of Sarpina.
     Astartha of the land of the Hittites.
     The god of the land of Zaiath-Khirri.
     The god of the land of Ka ...
     The god of the land of Kher ...
     The goddess of the city of Akh ...
     [The goddess of the city of ... ] and of the land of A ... ua.
     The goddess of the land of Zaina.
     The god of the land of ... nath ... er.

[I have invoked these male and these] female [deities of the land of the Hittites; these are
the gods] of the land, as [witnesses to] my oath. [With them have been associated the male
and the female deities] of the mountains and of the rivers of the land of the Hittites, the
gods of the land of Kazawadana (Cappadocia), Amun, Ra, Sutekh, and the male and female deities
of the land of Egypt, of the earth, of the sea, of the winds, and of the storms.

With regard to the commandment which the silver tablet contains for the people of the Hittites
and for the people of Egypt, he who shall not observe it shall be given over [to the vengeance]
of the company of the gods of the Hittites, and shall be given over [to the vengeance of the]
company of the gods of Egypt, [he] and his house and his servants.

But he who shall observe these commandments which the silver tablet contains, whether he be
of the people of the Hittites or [of the people of the Egyptians], because he has not neglected
them, the company of the gods of the land of the Hittites, and the company of the gods of the
land of Egypt shall secure his reward and preserve life [for him] and his servants, and those
who are with him and with his servants.

Now with regard to the inhabitant of the land of Egypt who is delivered up to Ramessu Mi-Amun,
the great prince of Egypt, his fault shall not be avenged upon him, his house shall not be
taken away, nor his wife nor his children. He shall not be put to death, neither shall he be
mutilated in his eyes, nor in his ears, nor in his mouth, nor on the soles of his feet, so
that thus no crime shall be brought forward against him.

In the same way shall it be done if inhabitants of the land of the Hittites take to flight,
be it one alone or two or three, to betake themselves to Ramessu Mi-Amun, the great king of
Egypt; Ramessu Mi-Amun, the great king of Egypt, shall cause them to be seized, and they shall
be delivered up to the great prince of the Hittites.

With regard to him who is delivered up, his crime shall not be brought forward against him.

That which is in the middle of this silver tablet and on its front side is a likeness of the
god Sutekh embracing the great prince of the Hittites, surrounded by an inscription to this
effect: "The seal of the god Sutekh the sovereign of heaven," and "The seal of the writing
made by Khata-sir, the great and powerful prince of the Hittites, the son of Mar-sir, the great
and powerful prince of the Hittites." That which is in the middle of the frame is the seal
of Sutekh the sovereign of heaven. That which is on the other side (of the tablet) is the likeness
of the god of the Hittites embracing the great princess of the Hittites, surrounded by an inscription
to the following effect: "The seal of the Sun-god of the city of Iranna, the lord of the earth,"
and "The seal of Puu-khipa, the great princess of the land of the Hittites, the daughter of
the land of Qazawadana, the [servant of the goddess Iskhara of] Iranna, the regent of the earth;
the servant of the goddess." That which is in the middle of the frame is the seal of the Sun-god
of Iranna, the lord of all the earth.

VIII

THE TRAVELS OF A MOHAR

A SATIRICAL ACCOUNT OF A TOURIST'S MISADVENTURES IN CANAAN, WRITTEN IN THE TIME OF RAMSES II.,
THE PHARAOH OF THE OPPRESSION

(See page 189)

I will portray for thee the likeness of a Mohar; I will let thee know what he does. Thou hast
not gone to the land of the Hittites, nor hast thou beheld the land of Aupa. The appearance
of Khatuma thou knowest not. Likewise the land of Igadai, what is it like? The Zar (Plain)
of Sesostris and the city of Aleppo are on none of its sides. How is its ford? Thou hast not
taken thy road to Kadesh (on the Orontes) and Tubikhi (the Tibhath of 1 Chr. xviii. 8), neither
hast thou gone to the Shasu (Bedâwin) with numerous foreign soldiers, neither hast thou trodden
the way to the Magharat (the caves of the Magoras near Beyrout), where the heaven is dark in
the daytime. The place is planted with maple trees, oaks, and acacias, which reach up to heaven,
full of beasts, bears and lions, and surrounded by Shasu in all directions. Thou hast not gone
up to the mountain of Shaua (in the northern Lebanon), neither hast thou trodden it; there
thy hands hold fast to the [rein] of thy chariot; a jerk has shaken thy horses in drawing it.
I pray thee, let us go to the city of Beeroth (cisterns). Thou must hasten to its ascent, after
thou hast passed over its ford in front of it.

Do thou explain the attraction to be a Mohar! Thy chariot lies there [before] thee; thy [strength]
has fallen lame; thou treadest the backward path at eventide. All thy limbs are ground small.
Thy [bones] are broken to pieces. Sweet is [sleep]. Thou awakest. There has been a time for
a thief in this unfortunate night. Thou wast alone, in the belief that the brother could not
come to the brother. Some grooms entered into the stable; the horse kicks out; the thief goes
back in the night; thy clothes are stolen. Thy groom wakes up in the night; he sees what has
happened to him; he takes what is left, he goes to the evil-doers, he mixes himself up with
the tribes of the Shasu. He acts as if he were an Amu (Asiatic). The enemies come, they [feel
about] for the robber. He is discovered, and is immovable from terror. Thou awakest, thou findest
no trace of them, for they have carried off thy property.

Become (again) a Mohar, who is fully accoutred. Let thy ear be full of that which I relate
to thee besides.

The town 'Hidden'--such is the meaning of its name Gebal--what is its state? Its goddess (we
will speak of) at another time. Thou hast not visited it. Be good enough to look out for Beyrout,
Sidon, and Sarepta. Where are the fords of the land of Nazana? The land of Usu (Palætyrus),
what is its state? They speak of another city in the sea, Tyre the haven is her name. Drinking
water is brought to her in boats. She is richer in fish than in sand. I will tell thee of something
else. Dangerous is it to enter into Zorah. Thou wilt say it is burning with a very painful
sting (?) Mohar, come! Go forward on the way to the land of Pa-Kâkina. Where is the road to
Achshaph? Towards no city. Pray look at the mountain of User. How is its crest? Where is the
mountain of Shechem? Who can surmount it? Mohar, whither must you take a journey to the city
of Hazor? How is its ford? Let me (choose) the road to Hamath, Dagara, (and) Dagar-el. Here
is the road where all Mohars meet. Be good enough to spy out its road, cast a look on Yâ ...
When one goes to the land of Adamim, to what is one opposite? Do not draw back, but instruct
us! Guide us that we may know, thou leader!

I will name to thee other cities besides these. Thou hast not gone to the land of Takhis, Kafir-Malona,
Tamnah, Kadesh, Dapul, Azai, Har-Nammata, nor hast thou beheld Kirjath-eneb near Beth-Sopher
(Kirjath-Sepher or Debir); nor dost thou know Adullam (and) Zidiputha, nor dost thou know any
better the name of Khalza in the land of Aupa, the bull on its frontiers (?). Here is the place
where all the mighty warriors are seen. Be good enough to look and see how Qina is situated,
and tell me about Rehob. Describe Beth-sha-el (Bethel) along with Tarqa-el. The ford of the
land of the Jordan, how is it crossed? Teach me to know the passage in order to enter into
the city of Megiddo which lies in front of it. Verily thou art a Mohar, well skilled in the
work of the strong hand. Pray, is there found a Mohar like thee, to place at the head of the
army, or a seigneur who can beat thee in shooting?

Drive along the edge of the precipice, on the slippery height, over a depth of 2000 cubits,
full of rocks and boulders. Thou takest thy way back in a zigzag, thou bearest thy bow, thou
takest the iron in thy left hand. Thou lettest the old men see, if their eyes are good, how,
worn-out with fatigue, thou supportest thyself with thy hand. Il est perdu, le chameau, le
Mohar! Eh bien![18] Make to thyself a name among the Mohars and the knights of the land of
Egypt. Let thy name be like that of Qazirnai the lord of Aser, because he discovered lions
in the interior of the balsam-forest of Baka at the narrow passes, which are rendered dangerous
by the Shasu who lie in ambush among the trees. (The lions) measured fourteen cubits by five
cubits. Their noses reached to the soles of their feet. Of a grim appearance, without softness,
they cared not for caresses. Thou art alone, no stronger one is with thee, no armée is behind
thee, no Ariel (see 2 Sam. xxiii. 20, Isa. xxix. 1) who prepares the way for thee, and gives
thee counsel on the road before thee. Thou knowest not the road. The hair on thy head stands
on end; it bristles up. Thy soul is given into thy hands. Thy path is full of rocks and boulders,
there is no way out near; it is overgrown with creepers and wolf's-foot. Abysses are on one
side of thee, the mountain and the wall of rock on the other. Thou drivest in against it. The
chariot jumps on which thou art. Thou art troubled to hold up thy horses. If it falls into
the abyss, the pole drags thee down too. Thy ceintures are pulled away. They fall down. Thou
shacklest the horse, because the pole is broken on the path of the narrow pass. Not knowing
how to tie it up, thou understandest not how it is to be repaired. The essieu is left on the
spot, as the load is too heavy for the horses. Thy courage has evaporated. Thou beginnest to
run. The heaven is cloudless. Thou art thirsty; the enemy is behind thee; a trembling seizes
thee; a twig of thorny acacia worries thee; thou thrustest it aside; the horse is scratched,
till at length thou findest rest.

Explain thou thy attraction to be a Mohar!

Thou comest into Joppa. Thou findest the date-palm in full bloom in its time. Thou openest
wide the aperture of thy mouth in order to eat. Thou findest that the maid who keeps the garden
is fair. She does whatever thou wantest of her.... Thou art recognised, thou art brought to
trial, and owest thy preservation to being a Mohar. Thy girdle of the finest stuff, thou payest
it as the price of a bad rag. Thou sleepest every evening with a rug of fur over thee. Thou
sleepest a deep sleep, for thou art weary. A thief takes thy bow and thy sword from thy side;
thy quiver and thy armour are broken to pieces in the darkness; thy pair of horses run away.
The groom takes his course over a slippery path that rises in front of him. He breaks thy chariot
in pieces; he follows thy foot-tracks. [He finds] thy equipments, which had fallen on the ground,
and had sunk into the sand, leaving only an empty space.

Prayer does not avail thee; even when thy mouth says: "Give food in addition to water that
I may reach my goal in safety," they are deaf and will not hear. They say not yes to thy words.
The iron-workers enter into the smithy; they rummage in the workshops of the carpenters; the
handi-craftsmen and soldiers are at hand; they do whatever thou requirest. They put together
thy chariot: they put aside the parts of it that have been made useless; thy spokes are façonné
quite new; thy wheels are put on, they put the courroies on the axles and on the hinder part;
they splice thy yoke, they put on the box of thy chariot; the [workmen] in iron forge the ...;
they put the ring that is wanting on thy whip, they replace the lunières upon it.

Thou goest quickly onward to fight on the battlefield, to do the deeds of a strong hand and
of firm courage.

Before I wrote I sought me out a Mohar who knows his power, who leads the jeunesse, a chief
in the armée [who goes forward] even to the end of the world.

Answer me not, "That is good, this is bad;" repeat not to me thy opinion. Come, I will tell
thee all which lies before thee at the end of thy journey.

I begin for thee with the palace of Sesostris (Ramses II.). Thou hast not set foot in it by
force. Thou hast not eaten the fish in the brook of .... Thou hast not washed thyself in it.
With thy permission I will remind thee of Huzana (near El-Arish); where is its fortress? Come,
I pray thee, to the palace of the land of Uzi, of Sesostris Osymandyas in his victories, to
Saz-el together with Absaqbu. I will inform thee of the land of Ainin (the Two Springs), the
customs of which thou knowest not. The land of the lake of Nakhai and the land of Rehoburtha
(Rehoboth, Gen. xxvi. 22) thou hast not seen since thou wast born, O Mohar. Rapih (the modern
boundary between Egypt and Turkey) is widely extended. What is its wall like? It extends for
a mile in the direction of Gaza.

[Footnote 18: By the use of French words and expressions Brugsch endeavours to represent the
Canaanitish terms which the Egyptian writer has affectedly introduced into his work.]

IX

THE NEGATIVE CONFESSION OF THE EGYPTIANS

(Sir P. Le Page Renouf's Translation)

(See page 186)

The 125th chapter of the Book of the Dead contains the confession which the soul of the dead
man was required to make before Osiris and the forty-two divine judges of the dead, before
he could be justified and admitted to the Paradise of Aalu:--

Said on arriving at the Hall of Righteousness, that N (the soul of the dead man) may be loosed
from all the sins which he hath committed, and that he may look upon the divine countenances.

He saith:--Hail to thee, mighty God, lord of Righteousness!

I am come to thee, O my Lord! I have brought myself that I may look upon thy glory. I know
thee, and I know the name of the forty-two gods who make their appearance with thee in the
Hall of Righteousness; devouring those who harbour mischief and swallowing their blood, upon
the day of the searching examination in the presence of Un-neferu (Osiris).

Verily "Thou of the Pair of Eyes, Lord of Righteousness," is thy name.

Here am I; I am come to thee; I bring to thee Right and have put a stop to Wrong.

I am not a doer of wrong to men.

I am not one who slayeth his kindred.

I am not one who telleth lies instead of truth.

I am not conscious of treason.

I am not a doer of mischief.

I do not exact as the first-fruits of each day more work than should be done for me.

My name cometh not to the Bark of the god who is at the Helm.

I am not a transgressor against the God.

I am not a tale-bearer.

I am not a detractor.

I am not a doer of that which the gods abhor.

I hurt no servant with his master.

I cause no famine.

I cause not weeping.

I am not a murderer.

I give not orders for murder.

I cause not suffering to men.

I reduce not the offering in the temples.

I lessen not the cakes of the gods.

I rob not the dead of their funereal food.

I am not an adulterer.

I am undefiled in the sanctuary of the god of my domain.

I neither increase nor diminish the measures of grain.

I am not one who shorteneth the palm's length.

I am not one who cutteth short the field's measurement.

I put not pressure upon the beam of the balance.

I snatch not the milk from the mouth of infants.

I drive not the cattle from their pastures.

I net not the birds of the manors of the gods.

I catch not the fish of their ponds.

I stop not the water at its appointed time.

I divide not an arm of the water in its course.

I extinguish not the lamp during its appointed time.

I do not defraud the Divine Circle of their sacrificial joints.

I drive not away the cattle of the sacred estate.

I stop not a god when he cometh forth.

I am pure, I am pure, I am pure, I am pure!

X

LETTERS OF KHAMMURABI OR AMMURAPI (THE AMRAPHEL OP GEN. xiv. 1) TO SIN-IDINNAM, KING OF LARSA
(THE ELLASAR OF GENESIS)

I. "To Sin-idinnam thus says Khammurabi: The goddesses of the land of Emudbalum restored your
courage to you on the day of the defeat of Kudur-Laghghamar (Chedor-laomer). Because they have
supported you among the army of thy hand, turn back the army and let them restore the goddesses
to their own seats."

II. "To Sin-idinnam thus says Khummarabi: When you have seen this letter you will understand
in regard to Amil-Samas and Nur-Nintu, the sons of Gisdubba, that if they are in Larsa or in
the territory of Larsa you will order them to be sent away, and that one of your servants on
whom you can depend shall take them and bring them to Babylon."

III. "To Sin-idinnam thus says Khammurabi: As to the officials who have resisted you in the
accomplishment of their work, do not impose upon them any additional task, but oblige them
to do what they ought to have performed, and then remove them from the influence of him who
has brought them."

Sin-idinnam seems to have been the legitimate prince of Larsa, who had been expelled from his
dominions by the Elamite invader Eri-Aku or Arioch, and had taken refuge at the court of Khammurabi
in Babylon. After the overthrow of the Elamites, Sin-idinnam was restored by Khammurabi to
his ancestral principality.

XI

THE BABYLONIAN ACCOUNT OF THE DELUGE

1. Sisuthros spake thus unto him, even to Gilgames:

2. 'Let me reveal unto thee, O Gilgames, the tale of my preservation,

3. and the oracle of the gods let me declare unto thee.

4. The city of Surippak, which, as thou knowest, is built [on the bank] of the Euphrates,

5. this city was (already) old when the gods within it

6. set their hearts to cause a flood, even the great gods

7. [as many as] exist: Anu the father of them,

8. the warrior Bel their prince,

9. Bir their throne-bearer, En-nugi (Hades) their chief.

10. Ea the lord of wisdom conferred with them, and

11. repeated their words to the reed-bed: 'Reed-bed, O reed-bed! Frame, O frame!

12. Hear, O reed-bed, and understand, O frame!

13. O man of Surippak, son of Ubara-Tutu,

14. frame the house, build a ship: leave what thou canst; seek life!

15. Resign (thy) goods, and cause thy soul to live,

16. and bring all the seed of life into the midst of the ship.

17. As for the ship which thou shalt build,

18. ... cubits shall be in measurement its length;

19. and ... cubits the extent of its breadth and its height.

20. Into the deep [then] launch it.'

21. I understood and spake to Ea my lord:

22. 'As for the building of the ship, O my lord, which thou hast ordered thus,

23. I will observe and accomplish it.

24. [But what] shall I answer the city, the people and the old men?'

25. [Ea opened his mouth and] says, he speaks to his servant, even to me:

26. ['If they question thee] thou shalt say unto them:

27. Since (?) Bel is estranged from me and

28. I will not dwell in your city, I will not lay my head [in] the land of Bel;

29. but I will descend into the deep; with [Ea] my lord will I dwell.

30. (Bel) will rain fertility on you,

31. [flocks] of birds, shoals of fish.'

Lines 32 to 42 are lost.

43. On the fifth day I laid the plan of it (i.e. the ship);

44. in its hull (?) its walls were 10 gar (120 cubits?) high;

45. 10 gar were the size of its upper part.'

Another version of the account of the Deluge, of which a fragment has been preserved, puts
a wholly different speech into the mouth of Ea, and gives the hero of the story the name of
Adra-Khasis. This fragment is as follows:--

'I will judge him above and below,
[But] shut [not thou thy door]
[until] the time that I shall tell thee of.
[Then] enter the ship, and close the door of the vessel.
[Bring into] it thy corn, thy goods, [thy] property,
thy [wife], thy slaves, thy handmaids, and the sons of [thy]
    people,
the [cattle] of the field, the beasts of the field, as many as
    I appoint ...
I will tell thee of (the time), and the door [of thy ship]
    shall preserve them.'
Adra-Khasis opened his mouth and says,
he speaks to Ea [his] lord:

'[O my lord,] none has ever made a ship [on this wise] that it should sail over the land.' ...

Here the fragment is broken off. The other version proceeds thus:--

46. 'I fashioned its side, and closed it in;

47. I built six storeys (?), I divided it into seven parts;

48. its interior I divided into nine parts.

49. I cut worked (?) timber within it.

50. I looked upon the rudder and added what was lacking.

51. I poured 6 sars of pitch over the outside;

52. [I poured] 3 sars of bitumen over the inside;

53. 3 sars of oil did the men carry who brought it ...

54. I gave a sar of oil for the workmen to eat;

55. 2 sars of oil the sailors stored away.

56. For the [workmen?] I slaughtered oxen;

57. I killed [sheep?] daily.

58. Beer, wine, oil and grapes

59. [I distributed among] the people like the waters of a river, and

60. [I kept] a festival like the festival of the new year.

61. ... I dipped my hand [in] oil:

62. [I said to] Samas (the Sun-god): 'The storeys (?) of the ship are complete;

63. the ... is strong, and

64. the oars (?) I introduced above and below.'

65. [Those who should be saved?] went two-thirds of them.

66. With all I had I filled it; with all the silver I possessed I filled it;

67. with all the gold I possessed I filled it;

68. with all that I possessed of the seed of life of all kinds I filled it.

69. I brought into the ship all my slaves and my handmaids,

70. the cattle of the field, the beasts of the field, the sons of my people, all of them did
I bring into it.

71. The Sun-god appointed the time and

72. utters the oracle: 'In the night will I cause the heavens to rain destruction;

73. enter the ship, and close thy door.'

74. That time drew near whereof he uttered the oracle:

75. 'On this night will I cause the heavens to rain destruction.'

76. I watched with dread the dawning of the day;

77. I feared to behold the day.

78. I entered into the ship and closed my door.

79. When I had closed the ship, to Buzur-sadi-rabi the sailor

80. I entrusted the palace with all its goods.

81. Mu-seri-ina-namari (the waters of the morning at dawn)

82. arose from the horizon of heaven, a black cloud;

83. the storm-god Rimmon thundered in its midst, and

84. Nebo and Merodach the king marched in front;

85. the throne-bearers marched over mountain and plain;

86. the mighty god of death lets loose the whirlwind;

87. Bir marches causing the storm (?) to descend;

88. the spirits of the underworld lifted up (their) torches,

89. with the lightning of them they set on fire the world;

90. the violence of the storm-god reached to heaven;

91. all that was light was turned to [darkness].

92. In the earth like ... [men] perished (?)

Two lines are lost here.

95. Brother beheld not his brother, men knew not one another. In the heaven

96. the gods feared the deluge, and

97. hastened to ascend to the heaven of Anu.

98. The gods cowered like a dog who lies in a kennel.

99. Istar cried like a woman in travail,

100. the great goddess spoke with a loud voice:

101. 'The former generation is turned to clay.

102. The evil which I prophesied in the presence of the gods,

103. when I prophesied evil in the presence of the gods,

104. I prophesied the storm for the destruction of my people.

105. What I have home, where is it?

106. Like the spawn of the fish it fills the deep.'

107. The gods wept with her because of the spirits of the underworld;

108. the gods sat dejected in weeping,

109. their lips were covered ...

110. Six days and nights

111. rages the wind; the flood and the storm devastate.

112. The seventh day when it arrived the flood ceased, the storm

113. which had fought like an army

114. rested, the sea subsided, and the tempest of the deluge was ended.

115. I beheld the deep and uttered a cry,

116. for the whole of mankind was turned to clay;

117. like the trunks of trees did the bodies float.

118. I opened the window and the light fell upon my face;

119. I stooped, and sat down weeping;

120. over my face ran my tears.

121. I beheld a shore beyond the sea;

122. twelve times distant rose a land.

123. On the mountain of Nizir the ship grounded;

124. the mountain of the country of Nizir held the ship and allowed it not to float.

125. One day and a second day did the mountain of Nizir hold it.

126. A third day and a fourth day did the mountain of Nizir hold it.

127. A fifth day and a sixth day did the mountain of Nizir hold it.

128. When the seventh day came I sent forth a dove and let it go.

129. The dove went and returned; a resting-place it found not and it turned back.

130. I sent forth a swallow and let it go; the swallow went and returned;

131. a resting-place it found not and it turned back.

132. I sent forth a raven and let it go;

133. the raven went and saw the going down of the waters, and

134. it approached, it waded, it croaked and did not turn back.

135. Then I sent forth (everything) to the four points of the compass; I offered sacrifices;

136. I built an altar on the summit of the mountain.

137. I set libation-vases seven by seven;

138. beneath them I piled up reeds, cedar-wood and herbs.

139. The gods smelt the savour, the gods smelt the sweet savour;

140. the gods gathered like flies over the sacrificer.

141. Already at the moment of her coming, the great goddess

142. lifted up the mighty bow which Anu had made according to his wish (?).

143. 'These gods,' (she said), 'by my necklace, never will I forget!

144. Those days, I will think of them and never will forget them.

145. Let the gods come to my altar;

146. (but) let not Bel come to my altar,

147. since he did not take counsel but caused a flood and counted my men for judgment.'

148. Already at the moment of his coming, Bel

149. saw the ship and stood still;

150. he was filled with wrath at the gods, the spirits of heaven, (saying):

151. 'Let no living soul come forth, let no man survive in the judgment!'

152. Bir opened his mouth and says, he speaks to the warrior Bel:

153. 'Who except Ea can devise a speech?

154. for Ea understands all kinds of wisdom.'

155. Ea opened his mouth and speaks, he says to the warrior Bel:

156. 'Thou art the seer of the gods, O warrior!

157. Why, O why didst thou not take counsel, but didst cause a deluge?

158. (Let) the sinner bear his own sin, (let) the evil-doer bear his own evil-doing.

159. Grant (?) that he be not cut off, be merciful that he be not [destroyed].

160. Instead of causing a deluge, let lions come and minish mankind;

161. instead of causing a deluge, let hyænas come and minish mankind;

162. instead of causing a deluge, let there be a famine and let it [devour] the land;

163. instead of causing a deluge, let the plague-god come and minish mankind!

164. I did not reveal (to men) the oracle of the great gods,

165. but sent a dream to Adra-khasis and he heard the oracle of the gods.'

166. Then Bel again took counsel and ascended into the ship.

167. He took my hand and caused me, even me, to ascend,

168. he took up my wife (also, and) caused her to bow at my side;

169. he turned to us and stood between us; he blessed us (saying):

170. 'Hitherto Sisuthros has been mortal, but

171. henceforth Sisuthros and his wife shall be like unto the gods, even unto us, and

172. Sisuthros shall dwell afar at the mouth of the rivers,'

173. Then he took us afar, at the mouth of the rivers he made us dwell.

XII

THE BABYLONIAN EPIC OF THE CREATION

TABLET I.

When the heaven above was not yet named
or the earth beneath had recorded a name,
the primæval (ristû) deep was their generator,
Mummu-Tiamat (the chaos of the sea) was the mother of
      them all.
Their waters were embosomed together, and
the corn-field was unharvested, the reed-bed was ungrown.
When the gods had not yet appeared, any one of them,
by no name were they recorded, no destiny [was fixed].
Then the great gods were created,
Lakhmu and Lakhamu issued forth [the first],
until they grew up [when]
Ansar and Kisar (the upper and lower firmaments) were
     created.
Long were the days, extended [was the time, till]
the gods [Anu, Bel, and Ea were born],
Ansar [and Kisar gave them birth].

       *       *       *       *       *

The deep [opened] its mouth [and said,] to [Tiamat], the glorious, [it spake]: While their
path ... I will overthrow their path ... Let lamentations arise, let complaining [be made]
[When] Tiamat [undertakes] this [work]

       *       *       *       *       *

Their way shall be difficult ... [Then] the god Mummu answered [his] father the deep:

       *       *       *       *       *

Their way [shall be overthrown], the light shall be darkened, let [it be] as the night! The
deep [heard] him and [his] countenance was lightened; evil planned they against the gods.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tiamat, the mother of the gods, lifted up herself against
      them,
gathering her forces, madly raging.
The gods united themselves together with her,
until (all) that had been created marched at her side.
Banning the day they followed Tiamat,
wrathful, devising mischief, untiring (?) day and night,
prepared for the conflict, fiercely raging,
they gathered themselves together and began the battle.
The mother of the deep (?) (Khubur), the creatress of them all,
added victorious weapons, creating monstrous serpents,
with sharp fangs, unsparing in their attack.
With poison for blood she filled their bodies.
Horrible adders she clothed with terror,
she decked them with fear, and raised high their ...
'May their appearance ...
Make huge their bodies that none may withstand their
      breast!'
She created the adder, the horrible serpent, the Lakhamu,
the great monster, the raging dog, the scorpion-man,
the dog-days, the fish-man and the (Zodiacal) ram,
who carry weapons that spare not, who fear not the battle,
insolent of heart, unconquerable by the enemy.
Moreover that she might create (?) eleven such-like monsters,
among the gods, her sons, whom she had summoned together,
she raised up Kingu, and magnified him among them:
'To march before the host, be that thy duty!
Order the weapons to be uplifted and the onset of battle!'
That he might be the first in the conflict, the leader in
      victory,
she took his hand and set him on a throne:
'I have uttered the spell for thee; exalt thyself among the
      gods,
assume dominion over all the gods!
Highly shalt thou be exalted, thou that art alone my
      husband;
thy name shall be magnified over [all the world]!'
Then she gave to him the tablets of destiny, and laid them
      on his breast:
'Let thy command be obeyed, let the word of thy mouth be
      established!'
When Kingu had exalted himself, and made himself like
      Anu (the god of heaven),
she determined for the gods her sons their destiny:
'The opening of your mouth shall quench the fire;
The exalted of Kidmuri (i.e. Kingu) shall dissolve its flame.'

       *       *       *       *       *

TABLET II.

(Begins with a speech of Ansar to Merodach.)

"Tiamat our mother has risen up against us, gathering her forces, madly raging. ......[he determined
on] battle. [Then spake he to] his father (Ea): 'Be not troubled; ......thou shalt become the
lord of the deep. ......with Tiamat will I contend.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

Merodach [heard] the words of his father, in the fulness (?) of his heart he said to his father:
'O lord of the gods, offspring (?) of the great gods, if indeed I am your avenger, Tiamat to
overpower and you to rescue, make ready an assembly, prepare a banquet(?). Enter joyfully into
Ubsugina (the seat of oracles) all together. With my mouth like you will I give the oracle.
What I create shall never be changed, the word of my lip shall never go back or be unfulfilled!'

TABLET III.

Thereupon Ansar opened his mouth, to [Gâgâ] his [messenger] he uttered the word: 'O angel [Gâgâ]
who rejoicest my heart, [to Lakhmu and Lakh]amu will I send thee; [the command of my heart]
thou shalt gladly hear(?): 'Ansar, your son, has sent me, the wish of his heart he has caused
me to know. Then I bade Merodach, the counsellor of the gods, your son; to attack Tiamat his
heart urged him. With my mouth, like you, will I then pronounce an oracle, what I create shall
never be changed; the word of my lip shall never go back or be unfulfilled.' Hasten therefore
and determine at once for him his destiny that he may go forth and meet your mighty foe!' Lakhmu
and Lakhamu heard this and lamented, the gods of heaven, all of them, bitterly grieved: 'Foolish
are they who thus desire battle (?); nor can we understand the [design] of Tiamat.' Then they
came together and marched ... the great gods, all of them, who determine [destinies]. They
came before (?) Ansar, they filled [his abode], they crowded one on the other in the gathering
... they sat down to the feast, [they devoured] the food; they eat bread, they drank [wine],
with sweet honey wine they filled themselves, they drank beer, and delighted their soul (?)
....they ascended into their [seats], to determine the destiny of Merodach their avenger.

       *       *       *       *       *

TABLET IV.

Then they set him on a princely throne; before his fathers he seated himself as ruler. 'Yea,
thou art glorious among the great gods, thy destiny has no rival, thy name (?) is Anu; from
this day forward unchanged be thy command, high and low entreat thy hand! Let the word of thy
mouth be established, thy judgment never be violated, let none among the gods overpass thy
bounds! as an adornment has (thy hand) founded the shrine of the gods, may the place of their
gathering (?) become thy home. O Merodach, thou art he that avenges us, we give unto thee the
sovereignty over the multitudes of the universe. Thou givest counsel, let thy word be exalted;
may thy weapons be victorious, may thine enemies tremble! O lord, be gracious to the soul of
him who putteth his trust in thee, but pour out the soul of the god who has hold of evil.'
Then place they in their midst a robe; they spake to Merodach their first-born: 'May thy destiny,
O lord, excel that of the gods; command destruction and creation, and so it shall be done.
Set thy mouth that it may destroy the robe; bid it return and the robe shall be restored!'
He spake and with his mouth destroyed the robe; he spake to it again, and the robe was re-created.
When the gods his fathers beheld (the power) of the word of his mouth, they rejoiced, they
saluted Merodach the king, they bestowed upon him the sceptre, the throne and reign, they gave
him a weapon unrivalled, consuming the hostile: 'Go,' (they said,) 'and cut off the life of
Tiamat, let the winds carry her blood to secret places.' (Thus) the gods, his fathers, determined
for Bel his destiny, they showed his path, and they bade him listen and take the road. He made
ready the bow and used it as his weapon; he made the club swing, he fixed its seat; then he
lifted up the weapon which he caused his right hand to hold; the bow and the quiver he hung
at his side. He set the lightning before him, with glancing flame he filled its body. He made
also a net to enclose the dragon Tiamat. He seized the four winds that they might not issue
out of it, the south wind, the north wind, the east wind (and) the west wind; he made them
enter the net, the gift of his father Anu. He created the evil wind, the hostile wind, the
storm, the tempest, the four winds, the seven winds, the whirlwind, the unending wind: he caused
the winds he had created to issue forth, seven in all, confounding the dragon Tiamat, as they
swept after him. Then Bel lifted up the Deluge, his mighty weapon: he rode in a chariot incomparable,
(and) terrible. He stood firm, and harnessed four horses to its side, [steeds] that spare not,
spirited and swift, [with sharp] teeth, that carry poison, which know how to sweep away [the
opponent]. [On the right] ... mighty in battle, on the left they open ... ......before thee.
[Bring to the feast] the gods, all of them, [let them sit down and] satisfy themselves with
food, [let them eat bread], let them drink wine, [let them ascend to their seats?] and determine
the future. He directed also his way, he made his path descend, to the place where Tiamat [stood]
he turned his countenance; with his lip he kept back ... his finger holds the.... On that day
they extolled him, the gods extolled him, the gods, his fathers, extolled him, the gods extolled
him. Then Bel drew near, eager for the struggle with Tiamat, looking for victory over Kingu
her husband. When she beheld him, her resolution was destroyed, her understanding was overthrown,
her plans confounded. And the gods, his helpers, who marched beside him beheld (how Merodach)
the prince amazes their eyes. He laid judgment on Tiamat, yet she turned not her neck; with
her hostile lips she uttered defiance: 'Let the gods, O Bel, enter on battle behind thee, [behold,]
they are gathered together to where thou art.' Bel [launched] the Deluge, his mighty weapon;
against Tiamat, who had raised herself (?), thus he sent it. 'Thou wert mighty [below,' he
cries,] 'exalted above, yet thy heart [has urged thee] to begin the strife, [to lead the gods
from] their fathers to [thy side]; [thou hast gathered them around thee] and raisest thyself
[against us], [thou hast made] Kingu thy husband [and hast bestowed on] him divine power. ...
thou hast devised evil, [against the] gods, my fathers, hast thou directed thy enmity. [May]
thy host be fettered, thy weapons be restrained! Stand up, and I and thou will fight together.'
When Tiamat heard this, she uttered her former spells, she repeated her command. Tiamat also
cried out vehemently with a loud voice. From her roots she rocked herself completely. She uttered
an incantation, she cast a spell, and the gods of battle demand for themselves their arms.
Then Tiamat attacked Merodach the counsellor of the gods; in combat they joined; they engaged
in battle. Then Bel opened his net and enclosed her; the evil wind that seizes behind he sent
before him. He swung the club; he shattered her stomach; he cut out her entrails; he divided
her heart; he overpowered her and ended her life; he threw down her corpse; he stood upon it.
When Tiamat who marched before them was conquered, he dispersed her forces, her host was overthrown,
and the gods her allies who marched beside her trembled and feared and turned their backs.
They fled away to save their lives; they clung to one another, fleeing helplessly. He followed
them and broke their arms; he flung his net and they are caught in the snare. Then filled they
the world with their lamentations; they bear their sin and are shut up in prison, and the elevenfold
creatures are troubled with fear. The host of spirits (?) who marched beside them (?) he throws
into fetters and [binds] their hands, and [tramples] their opposition under him. And the god
Kingu who [had been made leader over] them, he bound him also and did to him as to the [other]
gods. And he took from him the tablets of destiny [that were on] his breast; he sealed them
with his pen and hung them from his own breast. From the time he had bound and overmastered
his foes he led the illustrious foe captive like an ox, bringing to full completion the victory
of Ansar over his antagonists. The warrior Merodach (thus) performed the purpose of Ea. Over
the gods in bondage he strengthened his watch, and he turned backwards Tiamat whom he had overpowered.
Then Bel trampled on the body of Tiamat; with his club that spares not he smote her skull,
he broke it and caused her blood to flow; the north wind bore it away to secret places. Then
his fathers beheld, they rejoiced and were glad; they bade peace-offerings to be brought to
him. And Bel rested; his body he fed; he strengthened his mind (?), he formed a clever plan,
and he stripped her like a fish of her skin in two halves; one half he took and with it overshadowed
the heavens; he stretched out the skin, he appointed watchers bidding them that her waters
should not issue forth; he lit up the sky, the sanctuary rejoiced, and he set it over against
the deep, the seat of Ea. Then Bel measured the form of the deep; as a palace like unto it
he made E-Sarra (the upper firmament). The palace of the upper firmament, which he created
as heaven, he caused Anu, Bel and Ea to inhabit as their stronghold.

TABLET V.

He made the stations of the great gods; he fixed the stars, even the twin-stars, to correspond
with them; he ordained the year, appointing the signs of the Zodiac over it; for each of the
twelve months he fixed three stars, from the day when the year issues forth to its close. He
established the station of Jupiter that they might know their bounds, that they might not err,
that they might not go astray in any way. He established the station of Bel and Ea along with
himself. He opened also the gates on either side, the bolts he strengthened on the left hand
and on the right, and in their midst he set the zenith. He illuminated the Moon-god that he
might watch over the night, and ordained him for a guardian of the night that the time might
be known, (saying): 'Month by month, without break, make full thine orb; at the beginning of
the month, when the night begins, shine with thy horns that the heaven may know. On the seventh
day, halve thy disk; stand upright on the Sabbath with the [first] half. At the going down
of the sun [rise] on the horizon; stand opposite it [on the fourteenth day] in full splendour
(?). [On the 15th] draw near to the path of the sun; [on the 21st] stand upright against it
for the second time."

       *       *       *       *       *

TABLET VI. (?)

The gods in their assembly created [the beasts],
they made perfect the mighty [monsters];
they caused the living creatures of the [field] to come forth,
the cattle of the field, the wild beasts of the field, and the creeping
  things of the [field];
[they fixed their habitations] for the living creatures [of the field]
[and] adorned [the dwelling-places] of the cattle and creeping things of
  the city;
[they created] the multitude of creeping things, all the offspring [of
  the earth]!

XIII

A SUMERIAN ACCOUNT OF THE CREATION FROM THE CITY OF ERIDU

The glorious temple, the temple of the gods, in the holy place (of
  Eridu) had not yet been made;
no reed had been brought forth, no tree had been created;
no brick had been made, no roof had been formed;
no house had been built, no city had been constructed;
no city had been made, no dwelling-place prepared.
Nippur had not been built, E-kur (the temple of Nippur) had not been
  constructed.
Erech had not been built, E-Ana (the temple of Erech) had not been
  constructed.
The deep had not been created, Eridu had not been constructed.
The glorious temple, the temple of the gods, its seat had not been made.
All lands were sea.
When within the sea there arose a movement,
on that day Eridu was built, E-Sagila was constructed,
E-Sagila where the god Lugal-du-azaga dwells within the deep.
Babylon was built, E-Sagila was completed.
The gods and the spirits of the earth were created all together.
The holy city (Eridu), the seat of the joy of their hearts, they
  proclaimed supreme.
Merodach bound together a reed-bed on the waters;
dust he made, and he poured it out on the reed-bed.
That the gods might dwell in a seat of the joy of their hearts,
he formed mankind.
The goddess Aruru created the seed of mankind along with him.
He made the beasts of the field and the living creatures of the desert
He made the Tigris and Euphrates and set them in their place;
he declared their names to be good.
The ussu-plant, the dittu-plant of the marshland, the reed and the
  forest he created.
He created the verdure of the plain,
the lands, the marshes, and the greensward also,
oxen, and calves, the wild ox and its young, the sheep and the lamb,
meadows and forests also.
The he-goat and the gazelle brought forth (?) to him.
Then Merodach heaped up an embankment at the edge of the sea;
... as it had not before been made,
... he caused it to exist.
[Bricks] he made in their place,
... roofs he constructed;
[houses he built], cities he constructed;
[cities he made], dwelling-places he prepared;
[Nippur he built], E-kur he constructed;
[Erech he built], E-Ana he constructed.