The Rebel officer took the proffered chair, and sat there till far into the morning. In the
limits of a magazine article I cannot attempt to recount all that passed between them. The
written statement the Rebel Colonel has sent to me covers fourteen pages of closely written
foolscap; and my interview with him on the subject lasted five hours, by a slow watch. He disclosed
all that Judge Holt has made public, and a great deal more. Sixty days previously he had left
Richmond with verbal dispatches from the Rebel Secretary of War to Jacob Thompson, the Rebel
agent in Canada. These dispatches had relation to a vast plot, designed to wrap the West in
flames, sever it from the East, and secure the independence of the South. Months before, the
plot had been concocted by Jeff Davis at Richmond; and in May previous, Thompson, supplied
with two hundred and fifty thousand dollars in sterling exchange, had been sent to Canada to
superintend its execution. This money was lodged in a bank at Montreal, and had furnished the
funds which fitted out the abortive expeditions against Johnson's Island and Camp Douglas.
The plot embraced the order of "American Knights," which was spread all over the West, and
numbered five hundred thousand men, three hundred and fifty thousand of whom were armed. A
force of twelve hundred men--Canadian refugees, and bushwhackers from Southern Illinois and
Missouri--was to attack Camp Douglas on Tuesday night, the 8th of November, liberate and arm
the prisoners, and sack Chicago. This was to be the signal for a general uprising throughout
the West, and for a simultaneous advance by Hood upon Nashville, Buckner upon Louisville, and
Price upon St. Louis. Vallandigham was to head the movement in Ohio, Bowles in Indiana, and
Walsh in Illinois. The forces were to rendezvous at Dayton and Cincinnati in Ohio, New Albany
and Indianapolis in Indiana, and Rock Island, Chicago, and Springfield in Illinois; and those
gathered at the last-named place, after seizing the arsenal, were to march to aid Price in
taking St. Louis. Prominent Union citizens and officers were to be seized and sent South, and
the more obnoxious of them were to be assassinated. All places taken were to be sacked and
destroyed, and a band of a hundred desperate men was organized to burn the larger Northern
cities not included in the field of operations. Two hundred Confederate officers, who were
to direct the military movements, had been in Canada, but were then stationed throughout the
West, at the various points to be attacked, waiting the outbreak at Chicago. Captain Hines,
who had won the confidence of Thompson by his successful management of the escape of John Morgan,
had control of the initial movement against Camp Douglas; but Colonel Grenfell, assisted by
Colonel Marmaduke and a dozen other Rebel officers, was to manage the military part of the
operations. All of these officers were at that moment in Chicago, waiting the arrival of the
men, who were to come in small squads, over different railroads, during the following three
days. The Rebel officer had known of the plot for months, but its atrocious details had come
to his knowledge only within a fortnight. They had appalled him; and though he was betraying
his friends, and the South which he loved, the humanity in him would not let him rest till
he had washed his hands of the horrible crime.

The Commandant listened with nervous interest to the whole of this recital; but when the Southern
officer made the last remark, he almost groaned out,--

"Why did you not come before?"

"I could not. I gave Thompson my opinion of this, and have been watched. I think they have
tracked me here. My life on your streets to-night wouldn't be worth a bad half-dollar."

"True; but what must be done?"

"Arrest the 'Butternuts' as they come into Chicago."

"That I can do; but the leaders are here, with five thousand armed Illini to back them. I must
take them. Do you know them?"

"Yes; but I do not know where they are quartered."

At two o'clock the Commandant showed the Rebel officer to his bed, but went back himself, and
paced the floor until sunrise. In the morning his plan was formed. It was a desperate plan;
but desperate circumstances require desperate expedients.

In the prison was a young Texan who had served on Bragg's staff, and under Morgan in Kentucky,
and was, therefore, acquainted with Hines, Grenfell, and the other Rebel officers. He fully
believed in the theory of State Rights,--that is, that a part is greater than the whole,--but
was an honest man, who, when his word was given, could be trusted. One glance at his open,
resolute face showed that he feared nothing; that he had, too, that rare courage which delights
in danger, and courts heroic enterprise from pure love of peril. Early in the war, he had encountered
Colonel De Land, a former commandant of the post, on the battlefield, and taken him prisoner.
A friendship then sprang up between the two, which, when the tables were turned, and the captor
became the captive, was not forgotten. Colonel De Land made him chief clerk in the medical
department, and gave him every possible freedom. At that time it was the custom to allow citizens
free access to the camp; and among the many good men and women who came to visit and aid the
prisoners was a young woman, the daughter of a well-known resident of Chicago. She met the
Texan, and a result as natural as the union of hydrogen and oxygen followed. But since Adam
courted Eve, who ever heard of wooing going on in a prison? "It is not exactly the thing,"
said Colonel De Land; "had you not better pay your addresses at the lady's house, like a gentleman?"
A guard accompanied the prisoner; but it was shrewdly guessed that he stayed outside, or paid
court to the girls in the kitchen.

This was the state of things when the present Commandant took charge of the camp. He learned
the facts, studied the prisoner's face, and remembered that he, too, once went a-courting.
As he walked his room that Friday night, he bethought him of the Texan. Did he love his State
better than he loved his affianced wife? The Commandant would test him.

"But I shall betray my friends! Can I do that in honor?" asked the Texan.

"Did you ask that question when you betrayed your country?" answered the Commandant.

"Let me go from camp for an hour. Then I will give you my decision."

"Very well."

And, unattended, the Texan left the prison.

What passed between the young man and the young woman during that hour I do not know, and could
not tell, if I did know,--for I am not writing romance, but history. However, without lifting
the veil on things sacred, I can say that her last words were, "Do your duty. Blot out your
record of treason." God bless her for saying them! and let "Amen" be said by every American woman!

On his return to camp, the Texan merely said, "I will do it," and the details of the plan were
talked over. He was to escape from the prison, ferret out and entrap the Rebel leaders. How
to manage the first part of the dangerous programme was the query of the Texan. The Commandant's
brain is fertile. An adopted citizen, in the scavenger line, makes periodical visits to the
camp in the way of his business, and him the Commandant sends for.

"Arrah, yer Honor," the Irishman says, "I ha'n't a tr-raitor. Bless yer beautiful sowl! I love
the kintry; and besides, it might damage me good name and me purty prefession."

He is assured that his name will be all the better for dieting a few weeks in a dungeon, and--did
not the same thing make Harvey Birch immortal?

Half an hour before sunset the scavenger comes into camp with his wagon. He fills it with dry
bones, broken bottles, decayed food, and the rubbish of the prison; and down below, under a
blanket, he stows away the Texan. A hundred comrades gather round to shut off the gaze of the
guard; but outside is the real danger. He has to pass two gates, and run the gauntlet of half
a dozen sentinels. His wagon is fuller than usual; and the late hour it is now after sunset
will of itself excite suspicion. It might test the pluck of a braver man; for the sentries'
bayonets are fixed, and their guns at the half-trigger; but he reaches the outer gate in safety.
Now St. Patrick help him! for he needs all the impudence of an Irishman. The gate rolls back;
the Commandant stands nervously by, but a sentry cries out,--

"You can't pass; it's agin orders. No wagins kin go out arter drum-beat."

"Arrah, don't be a fool! Don't be afther obstructin' a honest man's business," answers the
Irishman, pushing on into the gateway.

The soldier is vigilant, for his officer's eye is on him.

"Halt!" he cries again, "or I'll fire!"

"Fire! Waste yer powder on yer friends, like the bloody-minded spalpeen ye are!" says the scavenger,
cracking his whip, and moving forward.

It is well he does not look back. If he should, he might be melted to his own soap-grease.
The sentry's musket is levelled; he is about to fire, but the Commandant roars out,--

"Don't shoot!" and the old man and the old horse trot off into the twilight.

Not an hour later, two men, in big boots, slouched hats, and brownish butternuts, come out
of the Commandant's quarters. With muffled faces and hasty strides, they make their way over
the dimly lighted road into the city. Pausing, after a while, before a large mansion, they
crouch down among the shadows. It is the house of the Grand Treasurer of the Order of American
Knights, and into it very soon they see the Texan enter. The good man knows him well, and there
is great rejoicing. He orders up the fatted calf, and soon it is on the table, steaming hot,
and done brown in the roasting. When the meal is over, they discuss a bottle of Champagne and
the situation. The Texan cannot remain in Chicago, for there he will surely be detected. He
must be off to Cincinnati by the first train; and he will arrive in the nick of time, for warm
work is daily expected. Has he any money about him? No, he has left it behind, with his Sunday
clothes, in the prison. He must have funds; but the worthy gentleman can lend him none, for
he is a loyal man; of course he is! was he not the "people's candidate" for Governor? But no
one ever heard of a woman being hanged for treason. With this he nods to his wife, who opens
her purse, and tosses the Texan a roll of greenbacks. They are honest notes, for an honest
face is on them. At the end of an hour good-night is said, and the Texan goes out to find a
hole to hide in. Down the street he hurries, the long, dark shadows following.

He enters the private door of a public house, speaks a magic word, and is shown to a room in
the upper story. Three low, prolonged raps on the wall, and--he is among them. They are seated
about a small table, on which is a plan of the prison. One is about forty-five,--a tall, thin
man, with a wiry frame, a jovial face, and eyes which have the wild, roving look of the Arab's.
He is dressed after the fashion of English sportsmen, and his dog--a fine gray bloodhound--is
stretched on the hearthrug near him. He looks a reckless, desperate character, and has an adventurous
history.[D] In battle he is said to be a thunderbolt,--lightning harnessed and inspired with
the will of a devil. He is just the character to lead the dark, desperate expedition on which
they are entered. It is St. Leger Grenfell.

At his right sits another tall, erect man, of about thirty, with large, prominent eyes, and
thin, black hair and moustache. He is of dark complexion, has a sharp, thin nose, a small,
close mouth, a coarse, harsh voice, and a quick, boisterous manner. His face tells of dissipation,
and his dress shows the dandy; but his deep, clear eye and pale, wrinkled forehead denote a
cool, crafty intellect.[E] This is the notorious Captain Hines, the right-hand man of Morgan,
and the soul and brains of the Conspiracy. The rest are the meaner sort of villains. I do not
know how they looked, and if I did, they would not be worth describing.

Hines and Grenfell spring to their feet, and grasp the hand of the Texan. He is a godsend,--sent
to do what no man of them is brave enough to do,--lead the attack on the front gateway of the
prison. So they affirm, with great oaths, as they sit down, spread out the map, and explain
to him the plan of operations.

Two hundred Rebel refugees from Canada, they say, and a hundred "Butternuts" from Fayette and
Christian Counties, have already arrived; many more from Kentucky and Missouri are coming;
and by Tuesday they expect that a thousand or twelve hundred desperate men, armed to the teeth,
will be in Chicago. Taking advantage of the excitement of election-night, they propose, with
this force, to attack the camp and prison. It will be divided into five parties. One squad,
under Grenfell, will be held in reserve a few hundred yards from the main body, and will guard
the large number of guns already provided to arm the prisoners. Another--command of which is
offered to the Texan--will assault the front gateway, and engage the attention of the eight
hundred troops quartered in Garrison Square. The work of this squad will be dangerous, for
it will encounter a force four times its strength, well armed and supplied with artillery;
but it will be speedily relieved by the other divisions. Those, under Marmaduke, Colonel Robert
Anderson of Kentucky, and Brigadier-General Charles Walsh of Chicago, Commander of the American
Knights, will simultaneously assail three sides of Prison Square, break down the fence, liberate
the prisoners, and, taking the garrison in rear, compel a general surrender. This accomplished,
small parties will be dispatched to cut the telegraph-wires and seize the railway-stations;
while the main body, reinforced by the eight thousand and more prisoners, will march into the
city and rendezvous in Court-House Square, which will be the base of further operations.

The first blow struck, the insurgents, will be joined by the five thousand Illini, (American
Knights,) and, seizing the arms of the city,--six brass field-pieces and eight hundred Springfield
muskets,--and the arms and ammunition stored in private warehouses, will begin the work of
destruction. The banks will be robbed, the stores gutted, the houses of loyal men plundered,
and the railway-stations, grain-elevators, and other public buildings burned to the ground.
To facilitate this latter design, the water-plugs have been marked, and a force detailed to
set the water running. In brief, the war will be brought home to the North; Chicago will be
dealt with like a city taken by assault, given over to the torch, the sword, and the brutal
lust of a drunken soldiery. On it will be wreaked all the havoc, the agony, and the desolation
which three years of war have heaped upon the South; and its upgoing flames will be the torch
that shall light a score of other cities to the same destruction!

It was a diabolical plan, conceived far down in hell amid the thick blackness, and brought
up by the arch-fiend himself, who sat there, toying with the hideous thing, and with his cloven
foot beating a merry tune on the death's-head and cross-bones under the table.

As he concludes, Hines turns to the new comer,--

"Well, my boy, what do you say? Will you take the post of honor and of danger?"

The Texan draws a long breath, and then, through his barred teeth, blurts out,--

"I will!"

On those two words hang thousands of lives, millions of money!

"You are a trump!" shouts Grenfell, springing to his feet "Give us your hand upon it!"

A general hand-shaking follows, and during it, Hines and another man announce that their time
is up:--

"It is nearly twelve. Fielding and I never stay in this d----d town after midnight. You are
fools, or you wouldn't."

Suddenly, as these words are uttered, a slouched hat, listening at the keyhole, pops up, moves
softly through the hall, and steals down the stairway. Half an hour later the Texan opens the
private door of the Richmond House, looks cautiously around for a moment, and then stalks on
towards the heart of the city. The moon is down, the lamps burn dimly, but after him glide
the shadows.

In a room at the Tremont House, not far from this time, the Commandant is walking and waiting,
when the door opens, and a man enters. His face is flushed, his teeth are clenched, his eyes
flashing. He is stirred to the depths of his being. Can he be the Texan?

"What is the matter?" asks the Commandant.

The other sits down, and, as if only talking to himself, tells him. One hour has swept away
the fallacies of his lifetime. He sees the Rebellion as it is,--the outbreak and outworking
of that spirit which makes hell horrible. Hitherto, that night, he has acted from love, not
duty. Now he bows only to the All-Right and the All-Beautiful, and in his heart is that psalm
of work, sung by one of old, and by all true men since the dawn of creation: "Here am I, Lord!
Send me!"

The first gray of morning is streaking the east, when he goes forth to find a hiding-place.
The sun is not up, and the early light comes dimly through the misty clouds, but about him
still hang the long, dark shadows. This is a world of shadows. Only in the atmosphere which
soon inclosed him is there no night and no shadow.

Soon the Texan's escape is known at the camp, and a great hue-and-cry follows. Handbills are
got out, a reward is offered, and by that Sunday noon his name is on every street-corner. Squads
of soldiers and police ransack the city and invade every Rebel asylum. Strange things are brought
to light, and strange gentry dragged out of dark closets; but nowhere is found the Texan. The
search is well done, for the pursuers are in dead earnest; and, Captain Hines, if you don't
trust him now, you are a fool, with all your astuteness!

So the day wears away and the night cometh. Just at dark a man enters the private door of the
Tremont House, and goes up to a room where the Commandant is waiting. He sports a light rattan,
wears a stove-pipe hat, a Sunday suit, and is shaven and shorn like unto Samson. What is the
Commandant doing with such a dandy? Soon the gas is lighted; and lo, it is the Texan! But who
in creation would know him? The plot, he says, thickens. More "Butternuts" have arrived, and
the deed will be done on Tuesday night, as sure as Christmas is coming. He has seen his men,--two
hundred, picked, and every one clamoring for pickings. Hines, who carries the bag, is to give
him ten thousand greenbacks, to stop their mouths and stuff their pockets, at nine in the morning.

"And to-morrow night we'll have them, sure! And, how say you, give you shackles and a dungeon?"
asks the Commandant, his mouth wreathing with grim wrinkles.

"Anything you like. Anything to blot out my record of treason."

He has learned the words,--they are on his heart, not to be razed out forever.

When he is gone, up and down the room goes the Commandant, as is his fashion. He is playing
a desperate game. The stake is awful. He holds the ace of trumps,--but shall he risk the game
upon it? At half past eight he sits down and writes a dispatch to his General. In it he says:--

"My force is, as you know, too weak and much overworked,--only eight hundred men, all told,
to guard between eight and nine thousand prisoners. I am certainly not justified in waiting
to take risks, and mean to arrest these officers, if possible, before morning."

The dispatch goes off, but still the Commandant is undecided. If he strikes to-night, Hines
may escape, for the fox has a hole out of town, and may keep under cover till morning. He is
the king-devil, and much the Commandant wants to cage him. Besides, he holds the bag, and the
Texan will go out of prison a penniless man among strangers. Those ten thousand greenbacks
are lawful prize, and should be the country's dower with the maiden. But are not republics
grateful? Did not one give a mansion to General McClellan? Ah, Captain Hines, that was lucky
for you, for, beyond a doubt, it saved your bacon!

The Commandant goes back to camp, sends for the police, and gets his blue-coats ready. At two
o'clock they swoop to the prey, and before daybreak a hundred birds are in the talons of the
eagle. Such another haul of buzzards and night-hawks never was made since Gabriel caged the
Devil and the dark angels.[F]

At the Richmond House Grenfell was taken in bed with the Texan. They were clapped into irons,
and driven off to the prison together. A fortnight later, the Texan, relating these details
to a stranger, while the Commandant was sitting by at his desk writing, said,--

"Words cannot describe my relief when those handcuffs were put upon us. At times before, the
sense of responsibility almost overpowered me. Then I felt like a man who has just come into
a fortune. The wonder to me now is, how the Colonel could have trusted so much to a Rebel."

"Trusted!" echoed the Commandant, looking up from his writing. "I had faith in you; I thought
you wouldn't betray me; but I trusted your own life in your own hands, that was all. Too much
was at stake to do more. Your every step was shadowed, from the moment you left this camp till
you came back to it in irons. Two detectives were constantly at your back, sworn to take your
life, if you wavered for half a second."

"Is that true?" asked the Texan in a musing way, but without moving a muscle. "I didn't know
it, but I felt it in the air!"

In the room at the Richmond House, on the table around which were discussed their hellish plans,
was found a slip of paper, and on it, in pencil, was scrawled the following:--

     "COLONEL,--You must leave this house to-night. Go to the
     Briggs House.

                        "J. FIELDING."

Fielding was the assumed name of the Rebel who burrowed with Hines out of town, where not even
his fellow-fiends could find him. Did the old fox scent the danger? Beyond a doubt he did.
Another day, and the Texan's life might have been forfeit. Another day, and the camp might
have been sprung upon a little too suddenly! So the Commandant was none too soon; and who that
reads this can doubt that through it all he was led and guided by the good Providence that
guards his country?

But what said Chicago, when it awoke in the morning? Let one of its own organs answer.

"A shiver of genuine horror passed over Chicago yesterday. Thousands of citizens, who awoke
to the peril hanging over their property and their heads in the form of a stupendous foray
upon the city from Camp Douglas, led by Rebel officers in disguise and Rebel guerrillas without
disguise, and concocted by home Copperheads, whose houses had been converted into Rebel arsenals,
were appalled as though an earthquake had opened at their feet.... Who can picture the horrors
to follow the letting loose of nine thousand Rebel prisoners upon a sleeping city, all unconscious
of the coming avalanche? With arms and ammunition stored at convenient locations, with confederates
distributed here and there, ready for the signal of conflagration, the horrors of the scene
could scarcely be paralleled in savage history. One hour of such a catastrophe would destroy
the creations of a quarter of a century, and expose the homes of nearly two hundred thousand
souls to every conceivable form of desecration."[G]

But the men of Chicago not only talked, they acted. They went to the polls and voted for the
Union; and so told the world what honest Illinois thought of treason.

More arrests were made, more arms taken, but the great blow was struck and the great work over.
Its head gone, the Conspiracy was dead, and it only remained to lay out its lifeless trunk
for the burial. Yet, even as it lay in death, men shuddered to look on the hideous thing out
of which had gone so many devils.

FOOTNOTES:

[D] See Fremantle's "Three Months in the Southern States," p. 148.

[E] Detective's description.

[F] Since the foregoing was written the Commandant's official report has been published. In
reference to these arrests, he says, in a dispatch to General Cook, dated Camp Douglas, Nov.
7, 4 o'clock, A. M.:--

    "Have made during the night the following arrests of Rebel
    officers, escaped prisoners of war, and citizens in
    connection with them:--

    "Morgan's Adjutant-General, Colonel G. St. Leger Grenfell, in
    company with J. T. Shanks, [the Texan,] an escaped prisoner
    of war, at Richmond House; Colonel Vincent Marmaduke, brother
    of General Marmaduke; Brigadier-General Charles Walsh, of the
    'Sons of Liberty'; Captain Cantrill, of Morgan's command;
    Charles Traverse (Butternut). Cantrill and Traverse arrested
    in Walsh's house, in which were found two cart-loads of large
    size revolvers, loaded and capped, two hundred stands of
    muskets loaded, and ammunition. Also seized two boxes of guns
    concealed in a room in the city. Also arrested Buck Morris,
    Treasurer of 'Sons of Liberty,' having complete proof of his
    assisting Shanks to escape, and plotting to release prisoners
    at this camp.

    "Most of these Rebel officers were in this city on the same
    errand in August last, their plan being to raise an
    insurrection and release prisoners of war at this camp. There
    are many strangers and suspicious persons in the city,
    believed to be guerrillas and Rebel soldiers. Their plan was
    to attack the camp on election-night. All prisoners arrested
    are in camp. Captain Nelson and A. C. Coventry, of the
    police, rendered very efficient service.

                        "B. J. SWEET, Col. Com."

In relation to the general operations I have detailed, the Commandant in this Report writes
as follows:--

"Adopting measures which proved effective to detect the presence and identify the persons of
the officers and leaders and ascertain their plans, it was manifest that they had the means
of gathering a force considerably larger than the little garrison then guarding between eight
and nine thousand prisoners of war at Camp Douglas, and that, taking advantage of the excitement
and the large number of persons who would ordinarily fill the streets on election-night, they
intended to make a night attack on and surprise this camp, release and arm the prisoners of
war, cut the telegraph-wires, burn the railroad-depots, seize the banks and stores containing
arms and ammunition, take possession of the city, and commence a campaign for the release of
other prisoners of war in the States of Illinois and Indiana, thus organizing an army to effect
and give success to the general uprising so long contemplated by the 'Sons of Liberty.'"

[G] Chicago Tribune, Nov. 8, 1864.

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

     1. The Hillyars and the Burtons. A Tale of Two Families.
     By HENRY KINGSLEY. Boston: Ticknor & Fields.

     2. Christian's Mistake. By the Author of "John Halifax."
     New York: Harper & Brothers.

     3. Uncle Silas. A Tale of Bartram-Haugh. By J. S. LE FANU.
     New York: Harper & Brothers.

While the American popularity of Charles Kingsley has been rather declining, the credit of
his brother Henry has been gradually rising. Those who have complained of something rather
shallow and sketchy in some of his former books will find far more solid and faithful work
in this. Indeed, he undertakes rather more than he can carry through, and the capacious plot,
well handled at first, gets into some confusion and ends in a rather feeble result. To deal
with two large families, distributing part of each in England and part in Australia, to interlink
them in the most complicated way in all genealogical and topographical relations, demands a
structural genius like that of Eugène Sue; and though Mr. Kingsley grapples stoutly with the
load, he staggers under it. His descriptions of scenery are as vivid as his brother's, and
he exhibits far less arrogance and no theology. There are in the book single scenes of great
power, and there has never, perhaps, been a more vivid portraiture of lower-middle-class life
in England, or of the manner in which it has been galvanized into a semi-American development
in Australia. The results of that expatriation upon more cultivated classes, however, appear
such as we should be sorry to call even demi-semi-American. Fancy discovering in California
a young lady in book-muslin, the daughter of cultivated parents, who remarks under excitement,--"Well,
if this don't bang wattle-gum, I wish I may be buried in the bush in a sheet of bark! Why,
I feel all over centipedes and copper-lizards!" Still, there may be some confusion in the dialects
used in the book, as there is hardly a person in it, patrician or plebeian, on either side
of the equator, who does not address everybody else as "old man" or "old girl," whenever the
occasion calls for tenderness. It may be very expressive, but it implies a slight monotony
in the language of British emotion.

There is rather a want of central unity to the book, but, so far as it has a main thread, it
seems to be the self-devotion of a sister who prefers her brother to her lover. This furnishes
a pleasant change from the recent favorite theme of ladies who prefer their lovers to their
husbands.

To this latter class of novels, based on what may be called the centrifugal forces of wedlock,
"Christian's Mistake" perhaps belongs. Its clear and practised style is refreshing, after the
comparative crudeness of some other recent treatises on the same theme; the characters are
human, not wooden, and the whole treatment healthful and noble.

"Uncle Silas" is the climax of the sensational, and goes as far beyond Mrs. Wood as she beyond
Miss Braddon, or she beyond reason and comfortable daylight reading.

     The Life and Times of Sir William Johnson, Bart. By
     WILLIAM L. STONE. Albany: J. Munsell.

We well remember the interest with which, more than twenty years ago, we heard that Mr. William
L. Stone was preparing a life of Sir William Johnson. His collection of material was very large,
comprising several thousands of original letters, besides a great mass of other papers. He
had written, however, but a small part of his work, when death put a period to his labors,
and the documents which he had gathered with such enthusiastic industry seemed destined to
remain a crude mass of undigested material. We think it fortunate for all students of American
history, that a son, bearing his name and inheriting in the fullest measure his capacity for
the work, has undertaken its completion, partly from affection and a sense of duty, and partly,
it is evident, from a natural aptitude.

In the whole range of American history no other personage appears so remarkable in character
and so important in influence, and at the same time so little known to general readers, as
Sir William Johnson. The reason is, that his great powers were exercised on a theatre which,
though vast and wellnigh boundless, was exterior to the familiar field of political action.
Yet on the single influence of this man depended at times the prosperity and growth of all
the British American colonies. Could France have won his influence in her behalf, England could
not have broken that rival power in America without an exhausting expenditure of men and treasure,
and without leaders of a different stamp from the blockheads with whom she long continued to
paralyze her Cisatlantic armies. At the darkest crisis of the last French War, the influence
of Johnson alone saved the English colonies from the miseries which would have ensued from
the enmity of the powerful confederacy of the Six Nations; and for many years after, in his
capacity of Superintendent of Indian Affairs, he continued to exercise an unparalleled power
over the tribes of the interior, soothing their jealousies, composing their quarrels, and protecting
them with equal justice, benevolence, and ability from the fraud and outrage of encroaching whites.

Johnson settled on the Mohawk in his youth, and immediately fell into relations with his savage
neighbors. He was accustomed to join their sports and assume their dress; and it is an evidence
of the native force and dignity of his character, that, in thus taking a course which commonly
provoked their contempt, he gained their affection, without diminishing their respect and admiration.
He gained a military reputation--not unqualified--by the Battle of Lake George, in 1755, where
he commanded the British force; and he won brighter laurels by the capture of Fort Niagara
in 1759. His true fame rests, however, on his civic achievements,--on the tact, energy, and
judgment, the humanity and breadth of views, with which he managed the important interest placed
in his hands. It would be hard to say whether the Indians or the Colonists profited most by
his influence; for while with a fearless adroitness he overthrew the schemes of hungry speculators,
he averted from peaceful settlers many a peril of whose existence, perhaps, they were unaware.
He gave peace to the borders, and sweetened, as far as lay in the power of man, that bitter
cup which had fallen to the lot of the wretched races of the forest.

Mr. Stone's book covers a period extending from a few years before the French War of 1745 to
the death of Johnson in 1774. In accordance with its title, it is largely occupied with the
"times" as well as with the "life" of its subject. In fact, it is a history of the period,
relating with considerable detail contemporary events with which Johnson was connected only
indirectly. This detracts from its character as a work of purely original research, to which,
as far as regards the personal history of its subject, it is preëminently entitled.

Johnson's vast correspondence relates chiefly to matters of public interest, and supplies comparatively
few of those details of private life which give liveliness to pictures of scenes and character.
The book, in respect to execution, is perhaps necessarily unequal. The first seven chapters
were written by the father of Mr. Stone, who endeavored to continue the work on its original
plan. The attempt, always difficult, to carry out a design conceived in the mind of another,
seems at the outset to have somewhat hampered the author; but as he proceeds with his work,
his excellent qualification for it becomes more and more apparent. He is thorough and faithful
in the use of his great store of material, and clear, vigorous, and often picturesque in his
narrative. The period with which he deals is one of the most interesting and most important
in American history, and the treatment is worthy of the theme. The hackneyed phrase, so often
meaningless, is in the case of this book emphatically true,--that no library of American history
can be said to be complete without it.

     1. The Rule and Exercises of Holy Living. By JEREMY
     TAYLOR, D. D. Boston: Little, Brown & Co.

     2. The Rule and Exercises of Holy Dying. By JEREMY TAYLOR,
     D. D. Boston: Little, Brown & Co.

The beautiful meditations of Jeremy Taylor, written in the intervals of the great English civil
war, seem appropriate enough amidst these closing days of our own contest. While the English
language remains, his delicious sentences will find readers and lovers; and the endless variety
of choice learning with which his pages are gemmed would make them always delightful, were
his own part valueless.

This copiousness of allusion makes no small work for his American editor, since even the latest
English editions leave much to be supplied. It is an enormous undertaking to verify and complete
all these manifold citations, and yet the present editor has been content with nothing less.
Editors so conscientious are not easily to be found; and it is to the honor of Little, Brown
& Company that they habitually secure such services, and thus make their reprints almost as
creditable to our literature as if they were original works.

     History of the Methodist Episcopal Church in the United
     States of America. By ABEL STEVENS, LL. D., Author of "The
     History of the Religious Movement of the Eighteenth Century
     called Methodism," etc. Volumes I. and II. New York:
     Carleton & Porter.

The history of a religions denomination is in itself a matter of no small importance. Taken
in connection with other ecclesiastical bodies as a portion of the data in estimating the national
development, it is still more valuable. In the churches inhere almost exclusively the sources
of influence available for the moral culture of the people. The pulpit, the pastorate, and
the various other ecclesiastical appliances are potent in effects which cannot be produced
by other causes. The higher educational institutions are under the direction of the religious
bodies; while our common schools, though properly excluding sectarian influence, are yet indirectly
and not improperly affected by the religious character of the community. Not only does the
man who undertakes to write history, while ignoring the religious element, give us an incompetent
and false representation, but no one can become a respectable student of history who does not
carefully consider the religious development of society as proceeding under the guidance of
the several denominational bodies.

Up to about the period of the Revolution the principal religious establishments in this country
were the Puritans, occupying practically the whole field in New England, the Presbyterians
preponderating in the Middle Colonies, and the Episcopalians in the South. There were other
elements, as the Quakers and the Baptists. The former, though not without a considerable influence
in shaping the national character, were less marked in their effect. The latter, though already
an important body and destined to become still more so, and though in fervor and aggressiveness
subsequently approximating the Methodists, were as yet so little distinct from the Puritans
that we may regard them as substantially one with the latter.

Presbyterianism and Episcopalianism were then, as they have been ever since, conservative in
their character and tendencies. Puritanism was radical in its views and sentiments, yet lacking
that diffusive propagandist power inhering in conventional bodies. Methodism, coming in, supplied
this lack, and at the same time appealed to vast masses which had not before been reached by
religious influences. An argument might be found here, were any needed, in support of the voluntary
system of religious establishments, as more perfectly adapting themselves to the various wants
and peculiarities of the different classes of people. Suggestions also arise concerning the
equilibrium so necessary in a free government, for the proper settlement of moral, social,
and political questions,--an equilibrium between the conservative and progressive tendencies,
which is far more likely to be attained when left free from any direction by the state.

The present year completes a full century since the first Methodist societies were formed in
this country. The name of a church was not assumed till some years later. It had been about
thirty years since the commencement of the remarkable religious movement in England, under
the Wesleys and Whitefield. It was introduced here by some Irish immigrants of German ancestry.
Missionaries were very soon sent over from England, and in no long time native preachers were
raised up. The time was propitious and the field promising for the success of the simple, cheap,
and every way available appliances of the new religious agency. The rapidly increasing and
widely scattering population could not be adequately supplied by any of the ecclesiastical
bodies which operated only through settled pastorates. These new propagandists, confined to
no locality, but going everywhere with their off-hand discourse, their eagerness "to preach
the word" to congregations of any size, of any character, and in any place, with their rude,
but vigorous style of oratory, and direct, outspoken address, attracted and affected whole
communities to an extraordinary degree. It is true, they were not always treated with much
deference, and sometimes they were the objects of abuse and violence, in which their lives
were imperilled. But still they pursued their way through the wilderness, seeking the lost
sheep. An anecdote illustrates the persistency of this class of preachers, and also the grim
humor with which, in spite of themselves, they sometimes invested their rather startling announcements.
In those early days there was one Richmond Nolley, a preacher in the new Southern country.
He was a man of great zeal, energy, and courage, and omitted no opportunity of doing good to
persons of any color or condition in whatever obscure corner he could find them. On one occasion,
while travelling, he came upon a fresh wagon-track, and following it, he discovered an emigrant
family, who had just reached the spot where they intended to make their home. The man, who
was putting out his team, saw at once by the bearing and costume of the stranger what his calling
was, and exclaimed,--

"What! another Methodist preacher! I quit Virginia to get out of the way of them, and went
to a new settlement in Georgia, where I thought I should be quite beyond their reach; but they
got my wife and daughter into the church. Then, in this late purchase, Choctaw Corner, I found
a piece of good land, and was sure I should have some peace of the preachers; but here is one
before my wagon is unloaded."

"My friend," said Nolley, "if you go to heaven, you'll find Methodist preachers there; and
if to hell, I'm afraid you'll find some there; and you see how it is in this world. So you
had better make terms with us and be at peace."

Dr. Stevens, who has acquired some celebrity by his excellent history of the Wesleyan movement
in England, has displayed in the present volume the same marked abilities which made his previous
work so popular. There is not only evidence of laborious and conscientious diligence in gathering
up, sometimes from almost inaccessible sources, the requisite materials, but the skill displayed
in their arrangement and treatment, so as to make the narrative an absorbingly attractive one,
is eminently praiseworthy. As a history, the work is not only creditable in a denominational
and ecclesiastical point of view, but it is a valuable contribution to our national literature.

Much of this success doubtless may be attributable to the nature of the subject; for it is
not easy to conceive of any movement, and especially a religious one, in which the melodramatic,
mingled here and there with both the tragic and comic, forms so large a natural element. There
was a new country, a rude society, daring adventures, great perils, marvellous escapes, terrible
hardships, the stern, harsh realities of pioneer life, grand and unexpected successes, all
which, seen from the distance of the present, have a romantic coloring, and produce an exhilarating
effect. Any ordinary ability would have made a readable story out of such materials; but to
make a history worthy of the name required the hand of a master.

There is something, perhaps, rather fanciful in the coincidence or parallel which the author
would make out between the enterprise of John Wesley and that of James Watt. Yet it is not
devoid of interest. While the one, toiling in poverty and obscurity, was preparing an invention
which should incalculably multiply industrial productiveness and give a mightier impulse to
modern civilization than any other material element, the other, incurring the opprobrium of
his ecclesiastical order, and regarded as a reprehensible agitator and fanatic, was inaugurating
a movement which should prove one of the most extraordinary and far-reaching of any in modern
times; and both these agencies--the one employing a mighty material force in the interest of
society, the other setting in operation vast moral energies for the uplifting of the masses--were
to have their grandest results in the New World.

Dr. Stevens is especially happy in his sketches of character; only, possibly, in indulging
too much his inclination for this sort of writing, he repeats himself, and in the recurrence
of pet phrases wearies the reader. Yet some of these are very good. The description of Francis
Asburey, the "Pioneer Bishop," is one not often excelled. He was one of the early missionaries
sent over by Wesley, and became the great leader in the work and the principal organizer of
the ecclesiastical machinery. He was the first bishop ordained in the country,--and a very
unique and remarkable bishop he was. There was for him no splendid palace, no magnificent cathedral,
no princely income. His salary was sixty-four dollars a year, his diocese a whole continent,
to visit which he must find his way without roads, through almost illimitable woods, over nearly
inaccessible mountains, floundering through swamps, wading or swimming vast rivers, scorched
by hot suns, bitten by winter frosts, drenched with pitiless rains, smothered by driving snows,
and often in divers dangers of death. His travelling equipage was not a chariot and four, but
saddlebags and one. Often sick and suffering, he seldom allowed himself to be detained from
his appointments. He went wherever he sent his preachers, and shared with them all the toils
and privations incident to the work. He annually made the tour of the States, travelling never
less than five thousand, and often more than six thousand, miles a year. He usually preached
once every day, and three times on Sunday. A man, of course, of little literary culture, yet
he possessed great good sense, a genial spirit, and large ability as an organizer. To him more
than other men the denomination owes its early efficiency and extraordinary success.

The two volumes before us embrace a period of scarcely twenty-five
years,--the period, as the author terms it, of the "Planting and
Training" of the church. Several other volumes will be required to
complete the history. But the future volumes can hardly be of so much
general interest as these already published. New York: Harper
     and Brothers.

This book, with the Preface written on board the bark Monticello, June 30, 1864, when the writer
was again bound for the Arctic regions, is in some respects the most remarkable account yet
rendered to us of life and experiences near the North Pole. The purpose of the undertaking
was to find something yet more satisfactory with regard to the fate of the hundred and five
men who accompanied Sir John Franklin. Mr. Hall was convinced that life among the Esquimaux
was possible, and that in no other way could trustworthy information be obtained from them.
His indomitable spirit in pursuing this object is beyond praise. He could not be daunted. The
result of this three-years' sojourn was the discovery of relics of the Frobisher expedition,
by which the possibility of discovering news, at least, of the men of Franklin's expedition
was made clear. The unfortunate loss of his expedition-boat made the journey to Boothia and
King William's Land impossible; but Mr. Hall's prolonged existence during nearly three years
among the "Innuits" determined his immediate departure again for those regions as soon as he
could return and be properly fitted out for a second trip from the "States."

In this naïve history we learn to look at life from the Esquimaux point of view. Mr. Hall's
sympathetic nature fitted him for this difficult task; and having accomplished it well, he
is enabled, by his vivid descriptions, to invite the reader to see what he saw, and to sit
by the "Innuit" fireside. We must confess, however, it is looking at the world from a very
blubber-y point of view; but since it is in the cause of science and humanity, we rise from
the reading, which is extremely interesting, with a high respect for Mr. Hall and renewed faith
in the result of his undertaking.

In so short a space there is no room for extracts, yet without them we can give little idea
of the simple, picturesque character of the narrative. Mr. Hall took the Innuits by the hand
as brothers, not as savages, and the result is large because of his wisdom.

     1. La Fiera. Commedia in Cinque Atti. Di ALBERTO NOTA. Con
     Note Inglesi. Boston: De Vries, Ibarra e Compagnia.

     2. La Rosa dell' Alpi. Novella di FRANCESCO DALL' ONGARO.

The author of an agreeable article in the "North American Review," entitled "Recent Italian
Comedy," says that the plays of Alberto Nota are no longer acted or reprinted. The American
press straightway refutes him by a neat edition of the comedy of "The Fair," with notes for
English readers. It is an entertaining little production, in spite of the above critic, having
rather effective incidents and situations, and easy, if not brilliant, dialogue. The plot may
be described as being French, and the moral as English; that is, the jealous wife outwits the
faithless husband, instead of the opposite result.

The "Collection De Vries" also introduces to us the more familiar and contemporary name of
Dall' Ongaro, to whom the critics attribute more dramatic genius than is conceded to any other
living poet of Italy. The story of "La Rosa dell' Alpi" is simply and beautifully written,
and paints the innocent career of a poor servant--maiden with something of the grace of George
Sand.

It will be a good thing for students to read these specimens of easy colloquial Italian; so
that they need not, when they visit the beloved-land, do their shopping exclusively in Dantean
phrases, as Mrs. Siddons shopped in Shakspeare.

     A Treatise on Ordnance and Armor, with an Appendix relating
     to Gun-Cotton, Hooped Guns, etc. By ALEXANDER L. HOLLEY, B.
     P. New York: Van Nostrand.

King James I. is reported to have said of iron armor, that it was an excellent thing: one could
get no harm, in it, nor do any. Yet armor has had but a brief respite from service; banished
temporarily from human backs, it is being restored for more wholesale service: it is extended
over ships and fortifications, and so thickened as to resist shot and shell. The very title
of this book marks the progress in the history of war. Hereafter ordnance and armor are two
correlatives, never to be considered apart. The progress in offensive and defensive improvements
keeps the balance of fighting humanity pretty nearly even thus far; as in the development of
a young lobster the claws and cuirass grow simultaneously.

Will ships or guns prove the stronger at last? No one can foresee. A single fifteen-inch ball
from the Monitor Weehawken disabled the iron-clad Atlanta at three hundred yards, where eleven-inch
balls had fallen powerless from the armor. A similar missile shattered the sides of the Tennessee,
penetrating five inches of iron and two feet of oak, against which all other shot had failed.
What can resist such balls? A mere pile of sand can resist them, if there are spades enough
to carve it into a fort; but as sand cannot be carved into a ship, we must resort to new devices
there. The larger the ship, the greater the danger; so suppose we try making it smaller. Let
us concentrate our ordnance and our armor: put thicker plating on our Monitor of eight hundred
tons than the Warrior of six thousand can support, and place near the centre of motion of the
little vessel two heavier guns than the weighty one can carry in broadside out upon her capacious
ribs. This game of giants is growing formidable; and with such a concentration of skill and
power, the fate of nations may be determined by a single blow.

Other novel questions come up, as we carry our researches farther. Try your strength by throwing
a small cannon-ball at a thin board-partition; you will find that the missile will split or
crush the board, but not penetrate it. Fire a bullet at the same target, and it will penetrate,
but neither crush nor split. Balance a plank on its edge, so that a pistol-ball thrown from
the hand will knock it down; you may yet riddle it through and through by the same balls from
a revolver, and leave it standing. Bring this commonplace fact to bear upon the question, how
to destroy an iron-clad; shall we destroy it by punching holes through it, or by splitting
and crushing? It is a difficult problem, and many pages of Mr. Holley's book are devoted to
the discussion of the light-shot and the heavy-shot systems.

For these problems, and such as these, we need a new military literature, embodying the vast
results which a few years of foreign experiment and home experience have furnished. We need
a scientific treatise on the whole subject of ordnance, regarding, for instance, the strains
of different charges and projectiles in large and small bores, and the work done by projectiles
and by cannon-metals having different properties, under statical and sudden strains. This want
Mr. Holley's book does not undertake to fill, being in its structure somewhat diffuse, and,
as it were, of unequal expansion: the object being rather to furnish the maximum of material
for a systematic treatise, than to write the treatise itself.

It has therefore the inestimable merits, and also some of the defects, of a pioneer compilation.
On many subordinate points, the details are multiplied almost to weariness, while on some points
more important there are hardly any details at all. But this is simply because the author could
obtain the one class of facts and not the other. It is a faithful registration, and the only
one, of a vast multitude of experiments and observations, which were absolutely inaccessible
in any other form. It is said to cause much wonder in England how its English facts and statistics
were obtained at all; and it is certain that Mr. Holley must have used his opportunities of
personal observation in a manner worthy of the curiosity attributed to his race. We have in
this book the substantial results of the vast and costly English experiments; while the more
momentous results of our own practice, so familiar to us, seem still unfamiliar across the
water. This gives our nation a great advantage, and renders it impossible to produce, at present,
in Europe, a work so encyclopædic as this. It is not merely the best book, but the only book,
on the theme it treats: there is no other account of the structure and results of modern standard
ordnance. That it is the work of a civil engineer, and not of a military or naval man, gives
it an additional interest; and the author may have owed to his position some foreign opportunities
which would have been refused to an officer. The book is printed in the usual superb style
of Van Nostrand, and is in all respects an honor to the literature of the country.

     Historical View of the American Revolution. By GEORGE
     WASHINGTON GREENE. Boston: Ticknor & Fields.

Either of the two objects which Mr. Greene aimed to accomplish in preparing the materials of
this volume demanded on his part the possession of large historical knowledge, and the best
abilities for its judicious use. The contents of the volume were made to do service, first,
as a series of twelve lectures before the Lowell Institute, addressed to a large and mixed
audience, possessing generally a high average of intelligence, and exhibiting, by their voluntary
presence, an interest on which a lecturer may largely rely. The second object of the author,
in the present publication of his Lectures, was to contribute to the best form of our popular
literature a volume which may be regarded either as introductory to, or as a substitute for,
an extended course of reading on its subject-matter, according to the leisure and capacity
of those who may possess themselves of it. We must congratulate alike the lecturer and the
author for very marked success in the adaptation of his materials and in the treatment of his
subject so as to answer equally well the wants of good listeners and of sympathetic readers.

The great perplexity of a lecturer, who has given him an hour on twelve evenings, two in a
week, for dealing before a mixed audience with such a subject as the American War of Independence,
must be in deciding for himself, without consultation with his hearers, how much previous knowledge
he may take for granted in them. He cannot name his authorities, much less quote them to any
great extent. On some vexed points the simple fact that sharp and dividing issues of controverted
opinions have been agitated about them must virtually compel him almost to pass them wholly
by, seeing that he cannot adequately discuss them, and that any brief and positive utterance
upon them would seem to be lacking in judicial fairness. The exigencies and temptations of
a lecture-room are also sadly provocative of that rhetorical bombast and exaggeration which,
having been so lavishly and offensively indulged on our Fourth of July and other commemorative
occasions in the supposed interests of popular patriotism, have brought our whole national
literature under a reproach hardly deserved. Mr. Greene, from his long residence abroad, has
heard and known too much of this reproach to have risked getting even under the shadow of it.

We believe it is a well-established fact, that both in oral and in literary dealings with historical
subjects, the more thorough and comprehensive the knowledge possessed by any one who proposes
to instruct others, the more concisely as well as the more correctly will he present his matter.
He knows how to adjust the proportions of interest in his main and incidental themes. By this
test we should judge Mr. Greene to be most faithfully conversant with his subject, and to have
had his knowledge stored up in his mind, uncommunicated, long enough to have well digested
and assimilated it. The admirable division of his theme for treatment under twelve distinct,
though closely related topics, shows something better than ingenuity, or a skilful arrangement
of a bill of fare for twelve entertainments. These topics are,--The Causes of the Revolution;
Its Phases; The Congress; Congress and the State Governments; Finances of the Revolution; Its
Diplomacy; Its Army; Its Campaigns; The Foreign Element of the Revolution; Its Martyrs; Its
Literature, in Prose; and in Poetry. An Appendix gives us a Chronological Outline of Historical
Events; Statistical Tables; and an Address of Officers of the Southern Army to General Greene.

For completeness' sake, we could have wished that the author, if not the lecturer, might have
indulged himself, and pleased and instructed his readers, by presenting under one more topic,
or under a miscellaneous category, the resources of the American Colonies at the date of the
Revolution, what they had besides land and water; the characteristics of the diverse elements
of the population; the manufacturing interests, which had begun to be ingeniously and effectively
pursued here, notwithstanding the repressive hostility of England to their introduction; and
the distinctive qualities of our farmers, sea-men, professional men, and village politicians.
But it is ungracious to ask for more than there is in this compact and most admirable volume.
It is written with a severely good taste, in a spirit of candor and generosity, with stern
fidelity to truth in relating things honorable and humiliating; and it will surely excite to
wide and diligent reading those who through its pages make their first acquaintance with its
subject. There are in it many finely drawn and artistic portraits of men of mark, especially
of Franklin, Lafayette, Steuben, James Otis, and Josiah Quincy. In no single volume can foreign
readers find what is here told so fully, so simply, and so well.

     Lectures on the Science of Language. By MAX MÜLLER, M. A.
     Second Series. New York: Charles Scribner.

Voltaire defined Etymology as a science where vowels signify nothing and consonants very little.
This is so far true that even the wisest books on Language affect one, after all, like a series
of brilliant puns. More important merits than this must, no doubt, be attributed to Max Müller;
but, after all, so wayward is he and so whimsical, such a lover of paradox and of digression,
that he must perpetually exasperate that sedate race of men whom Philology is supposed to have
peculiarly chosen for its own. In this second series of Lectures, especially, "we have been
at a great feast of languages, and have stolen the scraps."

Beginning the volume mildly with a demure introduction, we suddenly are over head and ears
in "dialectic regeneration," which seems like theology, only that it introduces us to a mild
baby-talk in that wonderful language, the Annamitic, where the sentence "ba bà bâ bá" means,
"Three ladies gave a box on the ear to the favorite of the prince." Then comes Bishop Wilkins's
"universal language," then a discussion of Locke, then the theory of harmonics, and then many
pages of anatomical plates. Then phonetic changes; followed by a chapter on "Grimm's Law,"
which would give work enough for a lifetime. We next plunge into botany, and have a whole chapter
on the "words for fir, oak, and beech," which shows that the author, like our own Mr. Marsh,
has studied the literal roots as well as the symbolic. Later, we come to astronomy, whence
one of our author's favorite theories conducts us into the Greek mythology, to which two whole
lectures are given. Then comes another chapter, tracing the "myths of the dawn" still farther
back toward the dim origin of the Aryan race; and the book closes with a chapter on Modern
Mythology, of which some twenty pages are given to an exhaustive treatise, anatomical and historical,
on the Barnacle Goose. This brings us round handsomely to Locke and Sir William Hamilton once
more, and there leaves us.

What change has come over the accomplished and eloquent man who was wisely transplanted to
England to teach us Anglo-Saxons what scholarship meant, and who made his first series of Lectures
a model of clever and effective statement? He congratulates himself, in the introduction to
this volume, on having left out all that was merely elementary. This is true in respect to
philology, perhaps, but he has certainly contrived to introduce the elements of a great many
other sciences. No matter; he stated in the first volume all the principal points with which
his reputation is identified; and it is very entertaining, though somewhat unexpected, to find
the new one filled with all manner of spicy prolusions--mingled with a few delusions--from
his commonplace book. Certainly the learning of these Lectures is unequalled, even by his former
exhibitions in that line; and our Cisatlantic standard of attainment seems rather scanty beside
this vast affluence.

There is also a certain wayward, heroic, Ruskin-like self-contradiction about Müller, which
one learns rather to enjoy. He claims that "all phonetic corruption proceeds from degeneracy,"
and yet has presently to shield himself behind the paradoxical proverb, that "lazy people take
the most trouble," and so the corrupted vocables are often harder to speak. He says repeatedly
that "sound etymology has nothing to do with sound"; yet he approves phonography, holding that
spelling signifies even less than sound,--which is contrary to the usual opinion of philologists.
Nevertheless his book is "full of the seeds of things"; no one else could have written it,
and no one can afford not to read it.