       *       *       *       *       *

CHILDREN'S TALES FOR GROWN-UPS.

IX.

THE UNWRITTEN TREATY.

"Be careful," said the worm to the slug, "there is one of those nasty birds over there. What
ugly things they are!"

"Not half so ugly as men. Ugh!" said the slug.

"Men are big, not ugly. They don't eat worms."

"But they cut them in two with spades."

"Only by accident. There is nothing so ugly as a bloated over-grown bird eating a slender delicate
worm."

"Except," said the slug, "a monstrous man crushing a tender slug under his clumsy hoofs. Birds
I can tolerate. They are not so big as men."

"But they hop quicker and eat more for their size," said the worm.

"Not slugs, they don't eat slugs. We have a treaty with the birds, you know."

"Was it signed?" asked the worm.

"There was no need. You see it is a matter of convenience. We don't get eaten, and the birds
don't get their beaks slimy."

"Convenience is a great thing," said the worm, "but it isn't everything. Well, good-bye; I
am going in till the bird goes."

"And I am staying out till the man comes."

"Slugs are nasty slimy things," said the thrush, "but in these hard times one must eat what
one can get," and he swallowed the slug with a wry face.

       *       *       *       *       *

WELL-MEANT.

Extract from a New Zealand school-boy's letter:--

"We also had songs, the College song, and the Harrow School song, for the special benifit (sic)
of the Governor, who is an Etonian."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

I was some way into Thorgills of Treadholt (WARD, LOCK), thinking what an unusually plausible
and imaginative yarn it was, when I turned back for possible enlightenment, and found a note
to the effect that it was a transcription of an Icelandic saga. Those old fellows knew their
business. I am not sagacious enough to guess where Mr. MAURICE HEWLETT has passed beyond transcription
to creation, but I can tell you that he offers his readers a very charming and finished piece
of work. Boys of all ages should delight in this record of the fights and wanderings and stout
diplomacy of the chieftain Thorgills, who was destined from his cradle to be a notable leader
of men. His marriage with Thorey was a romance of as exquisite a flavour as any that our sophisticated
age can show, and its tragic end wrings the heart with its infinite pathos. By some singular
discretion Mr. HEWLETT has chosen to eschew the least approach to Wardour-Street idiom, and
this gives the narrative a simplicity, a sanity and a vivid sense of reality which are extraordinarily
more effective than the goodliest tushery, of which flamboyant art Mr. HEWLETT is no mean master.
I am sure he has chosen this time a more excellent way. There are transcriptions and transcriptions.
This is brilliantly done.

       *       *       *       *       *

I cannot help regretting that Miss RHODA BROUGHTON has not thought fit to publish her total
fictional tonnage (if without disrespect I may employ a metaphor of the moment) on the title-page
of her latest volume. Certainly the tale of her output must by this time reach impressive dimensions.
And the wonder is that A Thorn in the Flesh (STANLEY PAUL) betrays absolutely no evidence of
staleness. If the outlook here is a thought less romantic than in certain novels that drew
sighs from my adolescent breast, this is a change inherent in the theme. For the matter of
the present work is a study in conjugal tedium. Parthenope (name of ill-omen) was one of those
unhappy and devastating beings who go through life fated to bore their nearest and dearest
to the verge of lunacy. So that her marriage to poor well-meaning Willy Steele had not endured
for more than a matter of weeks before the wretched man fled from his newly-made nest, with
the heart-cry (uttered to Parthenope's female relatives, themselves too sympathetic to resent
it), "I cannot stand her any longer!" This unfortunate débâcle is very ingeniously contrasted
with the courtship of another couple, immune from the curse; and the whole story is as fresh
as it is amusing. Perhaps it might have been told in fewer words; at times the slender theme
seems a trifle overladen. But probably your true Broughtonians (who must be reckoned in thousands)
would condemn such a suggestion as heresy; and, if they be satisfied, as they certainly will
be, then all is well.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is a tribute at once to the art of her treatment and the actuality of her theme that, after
reading the delicate little study of modern romance that ELIZABETH ROBINS PENNELL calls The
Lovers (HEINEMANN), I cannot determine whether the clever writer was reproducing or inventing--she
begins so convincingly with the statement that it was her first chapter, itself an article
in The Century, describing the life of The Lovers as she watched it from her window, that brought
about her friendship with the originals, and thus her knowledge of their further history. Anyhow,
true or not, it is the kind of story that has been going on all round us in these days of love
and heroism. Mrs. PENNELL first began to watch her pair of amoureux in their attic, which was
overlooked from her higher window (most readers could probably make a shrewd guess at its postal
district) in those seemingly so distant years when the young champions of artistic London used
to meet at a certain café, wonderfully clad, to consume vast quantities of milk. Then came
the War; the boy-husband enlisted, went to the Front--and the end is as we all have known it
many and many times. In this little book the too familiar story is given with a restraint and
absence of striving after effect that leave me, as I say, uncertain whether its appeal is due
to art or actuality. But in either case Mrs. PENNELL has told it very well.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Father, what is the difference between Tories and Radicals?" "Radicals, my dear, are the infamous
crew who wish to destroy all the noble institutions for which the Tories would give their life-blood."
"And which are you, Father?" I have inflicted this ancient (and, I always think, rather touching)
scrap of dialogue upon you because it exactly illustrates my impression of The Soul of Ulster
(HURST AND BLACKETT). In other words, this little book, written as ably and attractively as
you would expect from the author of The First Seven Divisions, is really less a dispassionate
survey of the Home Rule difficulty than a piece of special pleading for the Northern cause.
According, therefore, to your own attitude towards this problem will characters occupies her
rural stage--an old grandmother, be your estimate of Lord ERNEST HAMILTON'S arguments. To the
bigoted (or confirmed) Orangeman they will seem revelation; to the confirmed (or bigoted) Nationalist
they will as clearly seem rubbish. Even I, who admit the justice of the author's contentions,
fancied now and again (as in the matter of the "Peep-o'-Day Boys," for example) that a slightly
more generous admission of faults on his own side would have strengthened the presentation
of his case. One of the most interesting chapters of a quite short volume is that in which
the author explains his belief, at first rather startling, that the eventual solution of the
vexed question may be provided through the Sinn Fein movement. That hope, and the reasons for
it, are certainly alone worth the half-crown for which you can examine them.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

