This sort of country ecstasy, this season at once stimulating and enervating, tortured me.
It disturbed my bibliophilist labors, and gave a twang of musty nausea even to the sweet scent
of old binding-leather. I was as a man caught in the pangs of removing, unattached to either
home; and I bent from my windows over the throngs of festal promenaders, taciturn and uneasy.
I fancied that wings were sprouting from my brown dressing-robe, and that they were the volatile
wings of the moth or dragon-fly. But to establish myself at Marly before the baron, would not
that be a breach of compact? Would he not make it a casus belli? Luckily, we were getting through
April: to-morrow it would be the twenty-eighth.

On that memorable morning the sun rose strong and bright, and photographed a brilliant idea
upon my cerebellum.

I would undertake a pedestrian attack upon Marly by winding my way around the suburbs of the
capital. What more appropriate, for a profound geographer and tourist, than to measure with
my walking-stick that enormous bed of gypsum, at the centre of which, like a bee in a sugar-basin,
Paris sits and hums?

The notion gained upon me. Perhaps it was the natural reaction from the Mountains of the Moon;
but in my then state of mind no prospect could appear more delicious than a long tramp among
the quiet scenes through which the city fringes itself off into rurality. Those suburbs of
blank convent walls! those curves of the Seine and the Marne, blocked with low villages, whose
walls of white, stained with tender mould and tiled with brown, dipped their placid reflections
into the stream! those droll square boats, pushing out from the sedges to urge you across the
ferry! those long rafts of lumber, following, like cunning crocodiles, the ins and outs of
the shallow Seine! those banks of pollard willows, where girls in white caps tended flocks
of geese and turkeys, and where, every silver-spangled morning, the shore was a landscape by
Corot, and every twilight a landscape by Daubigny! How exquisite these pictures became to my
mind as I thought them forth one by one, leaning over a grimy pavement in the peculiar sultriness
of the year's first warmth!

"Quick, Charles! my tin botany-box."

I could be at Marly on the first of May at the dinner hour as punctually as Hohenfels--before
him, maybe. And after what a range of delicious experience! How he would envy me!

"Is monsieur going to travel all alone?" said keen old Charles, taking the alarm in a minute.
"Why am I not to go along with monsieur?"

The accent of primitive fidelity was perfect. I observed casually, "I am going on a little
journey of thirty-six hours, and alone. You can pack everything up, and go on to Marly as usual.
You may go to-morrow."

"Shall I not go along with monsieur, then?" repeated Charles, with a turn for tautology not
now for the first time manifested.

"What for? Am I a child?"

"Surely not--on the contrary. But, though Monsieur Paul has a sure foot and a good eye, and
is not to say getting old, yet when a person is fifty it is not best for a person to run about
the streets as if a person was a young person."

It was Josephine who did me the honor to address me the last remark.

I confess to but forty-five years of age; Hohenfels, quite erroneously, gives me forty-eight;
Josephine, with that raw alacrity in leaping at computations peculiar to the illiterate, oppressed
me with fifty. Which of us three knew best? I should like to ask. But it is of little consequence.
The Easterns generally vaunt themselves on not knowing the day of their birth. And wisdom comes
to us from the East.

I decided, for reasons sufficient to myself, to get out of Paris by the opposite side. I determined
to make my sortie by way of the Temple Market and the Belleville abattoirs. On the thirtieth
of April, at an ambitiously early hour, wearing my gardening cap, with my sketch-book sticking
out of my pocket, my tin box in one hand and my stout stick in the other, I emerged among the
staring porters of the neighboring houses, and it was in this equipment that I received the
renewed lamentations of Charles and Josephine.

"Will you dare to go along the Boulevard looking like that, sir?" said Josephine.

"A gentleman in a cap! They'll take you for a bricklayer--indeed they will, sir," said Charles;
"or rather for a milkman, with his tin can. I can't stand that: I will carry it rather myself,
though I feel my rheumatics on these damp pavements."

"Monsieur Paul must take a cab--at least to the barrier: it will not be pleasant to make a
scandal in the street."

"Who will tend Monsieur Paul these two days, now?" This was uttered with manly grief by Charles.

"And whoever will cook for him along the road?" It was Josephine who asked the question with
a heavy sigh.

To make an end of this charming scene of Old Virginia faithfulness, I put my best leg out and
departed with gymnastic sprightliness. An instant after I turned my head.

Charles and Josephine were fixed on the doorstep, following me with their regards, and I believed
I saw a tear in the left eye of each. What fidelity! I smiled in a sort of indulgent and baronial
manner, but I felt touched by their sensibility.

Come on! It is but a twenty-four hours' separation.

Go forth, then, as I remember saying long ago, without fear and with a manly heart, to meet
the dim and shadowy Future.

EDWARD STRAHAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM PHILADELPHIA TO BALTIMORE.

In 1832 a few adventurous men obtained a charter for a railroad from Baltimore to Port Deposit:
other charters were granted by Delaware and Pennsylvania in succeeding years, and at last in
1838 all were consolidated as the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad Company,
and became a through all-rail line, interrupted only by the Susquehanna and some minor water-courses,
under one management, beginning at Philadelphia and ending at Baltimore. But the country was
too young and weak to make this a strong road, either in capital or business. It struggled
along with a heavy debt, poor road-bed, imperfect rail (in some parts the old strap rail),
few locomotives and cars, and inconvenient dépôts, making but little progress up to 1851, when
Mr. Samuel M. Felton was brought from Boston to assume the presidency.

Seeing the actual and future importance of the line, some Eastern men bought up the stock,
put in the necessary money and encouraged Mr. Felton to begin an entire revolution in the road.
The road-bed was perfected and widened for a double track, new dépôts erected in Baltimore
and Philadelphia, new rails laid, new branches opened; and whereas Mr. Felton found the road
with only a single track, 25 locomotives and 308 cars, he left it with many miles of double
track, its dépôts rebuilt, 49 locomotives and 1145 cars. When he took the road its locomotives
traveled 312,840 miles per year, and earned $718,010, at a cost of $252,184.54: when he left
it, borne down by disease, the locomotives traveled 780,537 miles per year, at a cost of $1,960,649.
The capital stock in 1851 was $3,850,000, and paid three and a half per cent.: it is now $13,486,250,
and pays eight per cent.

When the war broke out in 1862 this road was the key of the continent, and the fact that it
was officered and controlled by Northern and energetic men saved it from destruction or becoming
an engine in the hands of our enemies. Over it hundreds of thousands of soldiers and citizens
were carried to the front, and millions of tons of merchandise and supplies were poured into
the quarter-master's, commissary's and medical departments all along the line.

In 1864, worn out by disease, the able manager laid down his authority, to be taken up by another
vigorous New England man, who in his turn has given almost life-blood to carry the road on
to greatness.

Since 1864 the advance in earnings has not been so great as in the four preceding years, because
of the necessary reduction in travel and transportation since the war. But enormous improvements
have been made, thousands of steel rails have been laid, locomotives, freight cars and passenger
cars of the most beautiful description have been added to the stock, new dépôts made (some
of the finest in the country), a new line planned and executed, carrying the road from the
meadows and marshes of the Delaware through the valleys and beautiful rolling uplands of Delaware
county to Chester, avoiding all danger from floods, and going over or under twenty-seven streets
to enter the city without possible peril to life or limb. A whole railroad system subsidiary
to this road has been developed in Delaware, and to-day, with the best road-bed, double tracks,
steel rails, the best locomotives, the best passenger cars in the country, supplied with all
the modern improvements of brake, platform and signal, and a perfectly drilled corps of subordinates,
this road may challenge the attention of the country, and be pointed out as one of the best
evidences of the growth and prosperity of Philadelphia.

The dépôt in Philadelphia, at the corner of Broad street and Washington avenue, is a large
and spacious building, which does not pretend to be a model of domestic architecture, but is
roomy and reasonably well ventilated. The bell rings, we take our seats and move out through
the usual coal-yards and shanties and suburbs, passing the United States Arsenal, until we
reach Gray's Ferry, where we see the Schuylkill, beautiful at high tide, the high banks opposite
once a famous estate, now the seat of the Almshouse, where four thousand paupers live in the
winter and about fifteen hundred in the summer. So mild and pleasant is this climate that the
majority of the paupers creep out, like the blue bottleflies, with the coming of spring, preferring
to sleep in barns or under the green trees all the summer, rather than endure the hard beds,
discipline and regular habits of the Almshouse. The rains of summer may fill their old bones
with rheumatism for winter, but there are charms in the life of the stroller, who feeds to-day
at a farm-house, or works a few hours to-morrow for a trifle to get whisky and tobacco, but
has no notes to pay, no house to maintain, no servants to support.

Gray's Ferry is an old historic name, for here Washington and the men of the Revolution crossed
again and again. The old rope ferry was succeeded by the old horse ferry, and now there are
three railroads here--the Darby Improvement, the Junction (which goes to West Philadelphia
and makes the connection for the great Southern Air-line), and the old line, which leads us
out, through the old Bartram Gardens, where an enthusiastic botanist made the first and best
collection of trees and plants in this country, on to the marshes of the Delaware. The mighty
river, widening into a bay, flows on to the ocean, its bosom furrowed by thousands of keels
and whitened by myriad sails. We look over wide acres of marshes, now green with the tender
colors of spring, the corn-fields of the higher portion giving by their brown earth beautiful
contrasts of color, the rows of corn just coming into sight. All over these meadows stand huge
oak trees and elms, amongst whose branches the vessels seem to glide. But beautiful as the
scene is, it is a bad place for a railroad, for when the great river rushes down swollen by
some freshet, and is met by the incoming tide, the water sets back over the marshes and threatens
to sweep away the track or put out the fires of the locomotives; and to cross streams and tideways
many draw-bridges, with their attendant dangers, must be maintained. To avoid all these difficulties,
Mr. Hinckley planned the change which is known as the Darby Improvement, carrying the road
from Gray's Ferry to Chester over and through the high lands of Darby and Ridley. We shall
no longer hear the brakeman shout out "Gibson's," "Lazaretto,", "Tinicum" (called by the Indians
Tenecunck), "Crum Creek." We shall no longer wonder that the train should be stopped for so
few passengers to get on or off, for in future our car will take us over a road-bed so perfectly
laid with steel rails that a full glass of water will not spill as the train hurries on through
a thickly settled country. Look quickly from the window at the country you are traversing:
see the beautiful station at Bonnaffon, and the magnificent oak tree, worth a hundred stations,
that stands in a field just beyond. We cannot enumerate all the beauties and objects of interest
that line the road: every valley opens a pleasant view, every hill is covered with handsome
houses, comfortable farmeries or superb trees. Before the road was made, these lands, lying
on a ridge high above the river, perfectly healthy and offering the most desirable homes for
city people, were inaccessible, but now they can be reached, and have been already appreciated.
Most of the land has grown too valuable for farming, and has been bought up and laid out with
different degrees of care for suburban residences.

Darby is one of the oldest towns in the State, and contributes largely to the business of the
road. Mills were built here in 1696, and it was divided into Upper and Lower Darby in 1786.
The first of the new towns is Sharon Hill, where a large amount of land has been laid out in
the rectangular method, and already many of the lots are sold to actual settlers: a machine-shop
has been established, and the railroad has built a very nice station for passengers.

Next to Sharon Hill comes Glenolden, where hill and dale, wood and meadow and a beautiful stream,
offer all the picturesqueness that can charm an enthusiastic or artistic eye, together with
good building-sites and every advantage that fertile and forest-clad land can give to one who
would exchange the heat and pavements of a city for rural life. From Glenolden it is but a
short distance to Norwood and to Moore's Crossing, where the company are erecting turnouts,
engine-houses, etc., and from here, eight miles from the city, numerous trains will run to
Philadelphia to accommodate the workingmen who, it is believed, will come out to live on these
cool and breezy uplands.

From Moore's we soon get to Ridley Park, which was described at length in a former Number.
The two stations at Ridley are models of beauty in their way: the principal station spans the
road-bed, wide enough here for four tracks, and is probably the most picturesque in the country,
as well as very convenient. Crum Lynne Station is remarkable for the beautiful sculpture of
the capitals of the pilasters to the architraves of the windows, the architect having designed
each one for this building, using the flowers and fruits and birds and animals of the region
for his ornamental work, instead of the usual cornice and frieze and capital of Grecian architecture.

But the train sweeps us away from Ridley limits, past Leiperville with its primeval railway,
and on to Chester. As we round the curve and rush through the woods we see on the left the
broad river with its three-masted schooners, ships and steamers, and on the right the spires
and houses of the town; and first and predominant the Military School of Colonel Hyatt. This
school was incorporated by act of Legislature in 1862, and is devoted to both civil and military
education. The studies and drill are so combined as to secure good mental and physical culture;
and to ensure good military instruction the State and the United States have contributed arms
of all kinds. Scholars come from all parts of the country, and even the West Indies; and as
the standard of scholarship is high, the graduates compare favorably with those from other
institutions.

Chester is one of the oldest towns on the line of the road by actual years, but one of the
youngest in growth. First called by the Indians Mackaponacka, and then by the settlers Upland,
it had a justice of the peace court in 1676. Its court-house was built in 1724. Its first newspaper
was published in 1819. For many years Chester dozed away in dignified quiet as the county-town:
its court-house and jail gave it all the honor it required. But the streams made good mill-sites,
the deep waterfront along the river offered splendid wharfage and chances for shipbuilding,
and, as good luck would have it, a rivalry awoke which ended in loading Media with the county
buildings and relieving Chester. Since then it has doubled and trebled: mills and factories
are on all sides, and its shipyards are not easily surpassed. Roach's shipyard covers twenty-three
acres. The firm make their own engines and everything required in iron shipbuilding from keel
to topmast. They have six vessels now on the stocks, and employ eleven hundred men, and have
room for sixteen hundred. They have built for every trade from the coaster to the East Indiaman,
varying in size from six hundred to four thousand tons, and their vessels pass unchallenged
amongst the best in the world.

Nor is trade the only feature of the town. About half a mile from the dépôt, on a gentle eminence,
is the Crozer Theological Seminary. The approach from Chester for the pedestrian, along the
shrub-, vine- and tree-clad banks of Chester Creek into and across the wide lawn, is a delightful
walk. The principal building was erected by John P. Crozer for a normal school. During the
war he gave it to the government for a hospital, and when he died in 1866 left it to his sons,
desiring them to devote it to some benevolent use. They have responded in a munificent manner
by establishing a school for training young men for the ministry, with accommodations for a
hundred students, houses for the professors, a church, a library building, lecture-halls and
all the required conveniences for a great and successful school. They have added an endowment
fund of two hundred and twenty-eight thousand dollars, the whole gift being about three hundred
and ninety thousand dollars, and one of the family has since given twenty-five thousand dollars
as a library fund. The seminary was opened in 1868 with fifteen students: there are now fifty
from all parts of the Union.

But the most complaisant conductor of the most accommodating special train could not wait any
longer for us, and we must hurry on through Lamokin, where the Baltimore Central, a tributary
road, turns off and traverses a most picturesque country, round by Port Deposit to Perryville,
where it again reaches the main road. At Lamokin are works where steel of a peculiar kind is
manufactured under a European patent. From here the road again clings to the shore of the Delaware,
and until we reach Wilmington the river, with its sails and its blue water, is on the left--on
the right a high ridge, which ends in the valley of the Shell Pot and Brandywine at Wilmington.

