"Well," reflected the minister, "we've got the mission church in South Harvey on a paying basis,
and the pipe organ in the home church paid for--that's some comfort. And they do say," his
eyes twinkled as he looked at his wife, "that the committee is about to settle all the choir
troubles. That's pretty good for a year."

"Another year," sighed Amos Adams, and the wind blew through the gaunt branches of the cottonwood
trees in the yard, and far down in the valley came the moaning as of many waters, and the wind
played its harmonies in the woodlot. The old man repeated the words: "Another year," and asked
himself how many more years he would have to wait and listen to the sighing of the moaning
waters that washed around the world. And Kenyon Adams, lying flushed and tousled and tired
upon a couch near by, heard the waters in his dreams and they made such music that his thin,
little face moved in an eyrie smile.

"Mag," said a pale, nervous girl with dead, sad eyes as she looked around at the new furniture
in the new house, and avoided the rim of soft light that came from the electric under the red
shade, "did you think I was cheeky to ask you all those questions over the 'phone--about where
Henry was to-night, and what you'd be doing?" The hostess said: "Why, no, Violet, no--I'm always
glad to see you."

There was a pause, and the girl exclaimed: "That's what I come out for. I couldn't stand it
any longer. Mag, what in God's name have I done? Didn't you see me the other day on Market
Street? You were looking right at me. It's been nearly a year since we've talked. You used
to couldn't get along a week without a good talk; but now--say, Mag, what's the matter? what
have I done to make you treat me like this?" There was a tremor in the girl's voice. She looked
piteously at the wife, radiant in her red house gown. The hostess spoke. "Look here, Violet
Mauling, I did see you on Market Street, and I did cut you dead. I knew it would bring you
up standing and we'd have this thing out."

The girl looked her question, but flushed. Then she said, "You mean the old man?"

"I mean the old man. It's perfectly scandalous, Violet; didn't you get your lesson with Van
Dorn?" returned the hostess. "The old man won't marry you--you don't expect that, do you?"
The girl shook her head. The woman continued, "Well, then drop it. You can't afford to be seen
with him."

"Mag," returned the visitor, "I tell you before God I can't afford not to. It's my job. It's
all I've got. Mamma hasn't another soul except me to depend on. And he's harmless--the old
coot's as harmless as a child. Honest and true, Mag, if I ever told the truth that's it. He
just stands around and is silly--just makes foolish breaks to hear himself talk--that's all.
But what can I do? He keeps me in the company store, and Heaven knows he doesn't kill himself
paying me--only $8 a week, as far as that goes, and then he talks and talks and talks about
Judge Van Dorn, and snickers and drops his front false teeth--ugh!--and drivels. But, Mag,
he's harmless as a baby."

"Well," returned the hostess, "Henry says every one is talking about it, and you're a common
scandal, Violet Mauling, and you ought to know it. I can't hold you up, as you well know--no
one can."

Then there followed a flood of tears, and after it had subsided the two women were sitting
on a couch. "I want to tell you about Tom Van Dorn, Mag--you never understood. You thought
I used to chase him. God knows I didn't, Mag--honest, honest, honest! You knew as well as anything
all about it; but I never told you how I fought and fought and all that and how little by little
he came closer and closer, and no one ever will know how I cried and how ashamed I was and
how I tried to fight him off. That's the God's truth, Mag--the God's truth if you ever heard it."

The girl sobbed and hid her face. "Once when papa died he sent me a hundred dollars through
Mr. Brotherton, and mamma thought it came from the Lodge; but I knew better. And, O Mag, Mag,
you'll never know how I felt to bury papa on that kind of money. And I saved for nearly a year
to pay it back, and of course I couldn't, for he kept getting me expensive things and I had
to get things to go with 'em and went in debt, and then when I went there in the office it
was all so--so close and I couldn't fight, and he was so powerful--you know just how big and
strong, and--O Mag, Mag, Mag--you'll never know how I tried--but I just couldn't. Then he made
me court reporter and took me over the district." The girl looked up into the great, soft,
beautiful eyes of Margaret Fenn, and thought she saw sympathy there. That was a common mistake;
others made it in looking at Margaret's eyes. The girl felt encouraged. She came closer to
her one-time friend. "Mag," she said, "they lied awfully about how I lost my job. They said
Mrs. Van Dorn made a row. Honest, Mag, there's nothing to that. She never even dreamed anything
was--well--was--don't you know. She wasn't a bit jealous, and is as nice as she can be to me
right now. It was this way. You know when I sent mamma away last May for a visit, and the Van
Dorns asked me over there to stay?" Mrs. Fenn nodded. "Well," continued Violet, "one day in
court--you know when they were trying that bond case--the city bonds and all--well, the Judge
scribbled a note on his desk and handed it to me. It said my room door creaked, and not to
shut it." She stopped and put her head in her hand and rocked her body. "I know, Mag, it was
awful, but some way I just couldn't help it. He is so strong, and--you know, Mag, how we used
to say there's some men when they come about you just make you kind of flush all over and weak--well,
he's that way. And, anyway, like a fool I dropped that note and one of the jurors--a farmer
from Union township--picked it up and took it straight to Doctor Jim."

The girl hid her face in her friend's dress. "It was awful." She spoke without looking up.
"But, O Mag--Doctor Jim was fine--so gentle, so kind. The Judge thought he would cuss around
a lot, but he didn't--not even to him--the Judge said. And the Doctor came to me as bashful
and--as--well, your own father couldn't have been better to you. So I just quit, and the Judge
got me the job in the Company store and the Doctor drops in and she--yes, Mag, the Judge's
wife comes with the Doctor sometimes, and now it's been five months to-day since I left the
court reporter's work and I have hardly seen the Judge to speak to him since. But they all
know, I guess, but mamma, and I sometimes think folks try to talk to her; and that old man
Sands comes snooping and snickering around like an old dog hunting a buried bone, and he's
my job, and I don't know what to do."

Neither did Margaret know what to do, so she let her go and let her stay, and knew her old
friend no more. For Margaret was rising in the world, and could have no encumbrances; and Miss
Mauling disappeared in South Harvey and that New Year's Eve marked the sad anniversary of the
break in her relations with Mrs. Fenn. And it is all set down here on this anniversary to show
what a jolty journey some of us make as we jog around the sun, and to show the gentle reader
how the proud Mr. Van Dorn hunts his prey and what splendid romances he enjoys and what a fair
sportsman he is.

But the old year is restless. It has painted the sky of South Harvey with the smoke of a score
of smelter chimneys; it has burned in the drab of the dejected-looking houses, and it has added
a few dozen new ones for the men and their families who operate the smelter.

Moreover, the old year has run many new, strange things through a little boy's eyes as he looks
sadly into a queer world--a little, black-eyed boy, while a grand lady with a high head sits
on a piano bench beside the child and plays for him the grand music that was fashionable in
her grand day. The passing year pressed into his little heart all that the music told him--not
of the gray misery of South Harvey, not of the thousands who are mourning and toiling there,
but instead the old year has whispered to the child the beautiful mystic tales of great souls
doing noble deeds, of heroes who died that men might live and love, of beauty and of harmony
too deep for any words of his that throb in him and stir depths in his soul to high aspiration.
It has all gone through his ears; for his eyes see little that is beautiful. There is, of course,
the beauty of the homely hours he spends with those who love him best, hours spent at school
and joyous hours spent by the murmuring creek, and there is what the grand lady at the piano
thinks is a marvel of beauty in the ornate home upon the hill. But the most beautiful thing
he sees as the old year winds the passing panorama of life for his eyes is the sunshine and
prairie grass. This comes to him of a Sunday when he walks with Grant--brother Grant, out in
the fields far away from South Harvey--where the frosty breath of autumn has turned the grass
to lavender and pale heliotrope, and the hills roll away and away like silent music and the
clouds idling lazily over the hillsides afar off cast dark shadows that drift in the lavender
sea. Now the smoke that the old year paints upon the blue prairie sky will fade as the year
passes, and the great smelters may crumble and men may plow over the ground where they stand
so proudly even to-day; but the music in the boy's heart, put there by the passing year, and
the glory of the sunshine and the prairie grass with the meadow lark's sad evening song as
it quivers for a moment in the sunset air,--these have been caught in the child's soul and
have passed through the strange alchemy of God's great mystery of human genius into an art
that is the heritage of the race. For into the mind of that child--that eyrie, large-eyed,
wondering, silent, lonely-seeming child--the signals of God were passing. When he grew into
his man's estate and could give them voice, the winds of the prairie, low and gentle, the soft
lisping of quiet waters, the moving passion of the hurricane, the idle dalliance of the clouds
whose purple shadows combed the rolling hills, and all the ecstasy of the love cry of solitary
prairie birds, found meaning and the listening world heard, through his music, God speaking
to His children.

So the year moved quickly on. Its tasks were countless. It had another child to teach another
message. There was a little girl in the town--a small girl with the bluest eyes in the world
and tiny curls--yellow curls that wound so softly around her mother's fingers that you would
think that they were not curls at all but golden dreams of curls that had for the moment come
true and would fade back into fairyland whence they came. And the passing year had to prop
the child at a window while the dusk came creeping into the quiet house. There she sat waiting,
watching, hoping that the proud, handsome man who came at twilight down the way leading to
the threshold, would smile at her. She was not old enough to hope he would take her in his
arms where she could cuddle and be loved. So the passing year had to take a fine brush and
paint upon the small, wistful face a fleeting shadow, the mere ghost of a sadness that came
and went as she watched and waited for the father love.

And Judge Thomas Van Dorn, the punctilious, gay, resistless, young Tom Van Dorn was deaf to
the deeper voices that called to him and beckoned him to rest his soul. And soon upon the winds
that roam the world and carry earth dreams back to ghosts, and bring ghosts of what we would
be back to our dreams--the roaming winds bore away the passing year, but they could not take
the shadows that it left upon the child's tender heart.

Now, when the old year with all its work lay down in the innumerable company of its predecessors,
and the bells rang and the whistles blew in South Harvey to welcome in the new year, the midnight
sky was blazoned with the great torches from the smelter chimneys, and the pumps in the oil
wells kept up their dolorous whining and complaining, like great insects battening upon an
abandoned world. In South Harvey the lights of the saloons and the side of the dragon's spawn
glowed and beckoned men to death. Money tinkled over the bars, and whispered as it was crumpled
in the claws of the dragon. For money the scurrying human ants hurried along the dark, half-lighted
streets from the ant hills over the mines. For money the cranes of the pumps creaked their
monody. For money the half-naked men toiled to their death in the fumes of the smelter. So
the New Year's bells rang a pean of welcome to the money that the New Year would bring with
its toll of death.

"Money," clanged the church bells in the town on the hill. "Money makes wealth and since we
have banished our kings and stoned our priests, money is the only thing in our material world
that will bring power and power brings pleasure and pleasure brings death."

"And death? and death? and death?" tolled the church bells that glad New Year, and then ceased
in circling waves of sound that enveloped the world, still inquiring--"and death? and death?"
fainter and fainter until dawn.

The little boy who heard the bells may have heard their plaintive question; for in the morning
twilight, sitting in his nightgown on his high chair looking into the cheerful mouth of the
glowing kitchen stove, while the elders prepared breakfast, the child who had been silent for
a long time raised his face and asked:

"Grant--what is death?" The youth at his task answered by telling about the buried seed and
the quickening plant. The child listened and shook his head.

"Father," he asked, addressing the old man, who was rubbing his chilled hands over the fire,
"what is death?" The old man spoke, slowly. He ran his fingers through his beard and then addressing
the youth who had spoken rather than the child, replied:

"Death? Death?" and looked puzzled, as if searching for his words. "Death is the low archway
in the journey of life, where we all--high and low, weak and strong, poor and rich, must bow
into the dust, remove our earthly trappings, wealth and power and pleasure, before we rise
to go upon the next stage of our journey into wider vistas and greener fields."

The child nodded his head as one who has just appraised and approved a universe, replying sagely,
"Oh," then after a moment he added: "Yes." And said no more.

But when the sun was up, and the wheels scraped on the gravel walk before the Adams home, and
the silvery, infectious laugh of a young mother waked the echoes of the home, as she bundled
up Kenyon for his daily journey, the old man and the young man heard the child ask: "Aunty
Laura--what is death?" The woman with her own child near in the very midst of life, only laughed
and laughed again, and Kenyon laughed and Lila laughed and they all laughed. But the bells
of the New Year left within him some stirring of their eternal question. For as the light of
day sniffed out, Grant in a cage full of miners, with Dick Bowman and one of his boys standing
beside him, going down to the second level of the mine, asked himself the question that had
puzzled him: Why did not these men get as much out of life as their fellows on the same pay
in the town who work in stores and offices? He could see no particular difference in the intelligence
of the men in Harvey and the workers in South Harvey; yet there they were in poorer clothes,
with, faces not so quick, clearly not so well kept from a purely animal standpoint, and even
if they were sturdier and physically more powerful, yet to the young man working with them
in the mine, it seemed that they were a different sort from the white-handed, keen-faced, smooth-shaven,
well-groomed clerks of Market Street, and that the clerks were getting the better of life.
And Grant cried in his heart: "Why--why--why?"

Then Dick Bowman said: "Red--penny for your thoughts?" The men near by turned to Grant and
he said: "Hello, Dick--" Then to the boy: "Well, Mugs, how are you?" He spoke to the others,
Casper and Barney and Evans and Hugh and Bill and Dan and Tom and Lew and Gomer and Mike and
Dick--excepting Casper Herdicker, mostly Welsh and Irish, and they passed around some more
or less ribald greetings. Then they all stepped upon the soft ground and stood in the light
of the flickering oil torches that hung suspended from timbers.

Stretching down long avenues these flickering torches blocked out the alleys of the mine in
either direction from the room, perhaps fifty by forty feet, six or seven feet high, where
they were standing. A car of coal drawn by forlorn mules and pushed by a grinning boy, came
creaking around a distant corner, and drew nearer to the cage. A score of men ending their
shift were coming into the passageways from each end, shuffling along, tired and silent. They
met the men going to work with a nod or a word and in a moment the room at the main bottom
was empty and silent, save for the groaning car and the various language spoken by the grinning
boy to the unhappy mule. Grant Adams turned off the main passage to an air course, where from
the fans above cold air was rushing along a narrow and scarcely lighted runway about six feet
wide and lower than the main passage. Down this passage the new mule barn was building. Grant
went to his work, and just outside the barn, snuffed a sputtering torch that was dripping burning
oil into a small oily puddle on the damp floor. The room was cold. Three men were with him
and he was directing them, while he worked briskly with them. Occasionally he left the barn
to oversee the carpenters who were timbering up a new shaft in a lower level that was not yet
ready for operation. Fifty miners and carpenters were working on the third level, clearing
away passages, making shaft openings, putting in timbers, constructing air courses and getting
the level ready for real work. On the second level, in the little rooms, off the long, gloomy
passages lighted with the flaring torches hanging from the damp timbers that stretched away
into long vistas wherein the torches at the ends of the passage glimmered like fireflies, men
were working--two hundred men pegging and digging and prying and sweating and talking to their
"buddies," the Welsh in monosyllables and the Irish in a confusion of tongues. The cars came
jangling along the passageways empty and went back loaded and groaning. Occasionally the piping
voice of a boy and the melancholy bray of a mule broke the deep silence of the place.

For sound traveled slowly through the gloom, as though the torches sapped it up and burned
it out in faint, trembling light to confuse the men who sometimes came plodding down the galleries
to and from the main bottom. At nine o'clock Grant Adams had been twice over the mine, on the
three levels and had thirty men hammering away for dear life. He sent a car of lumber down
to the mule barn, while he went to the third level to direct the division of an air shaft into
an emergency escape. On one side of this air shaft the air came down and there was a temporary
hoist for the men on the third level and on the other side a wooden stairway was to be built
up seventy feet toward the second level.

At ten o'clock Grant came back to the second level by the hoist in the air shaft and as he
started down the low air course branching off from the main passage and leading to the new
mule barn, he smelled burning pine; and hurrying around a corner saw that the boy who dumped
the pine boards for the mule barn had not taken the boards into the barn, nor even entirely
to the barn, but had dumped them in the passage to the windward of the barn, under the leaky
torch, and Grant could see down the air course the ends of the boards burning brightly.

The men working in the barn could not smell the fire, for the wind that rushed down the air
course was carrying the smoke and fumes away from them. Grant ran down the course toward the
fire, which was fanned by the rushing air, came to the lumber, which was not all afire, jumped
through the flames, slapping the little blazes on his clothes with his hat as he came out,
and ran into the barn calling to the men to help him put out the fire. They spent two or three
minutes trying to attach the hose to the water plug there, but the hose did not fit the plug;
then they tried to turn the plug to get water in their dinner pails and found that the plug
had rusted and would not turn. While they worked the fire grew. It was impossible to send a
man back through it, so Grant sent a man speeding around the air course, to get a wrench from
the pump room, or from some one in the main bottom to turn on the water. In the meantime he
and the other two men worked furiously to extinguish the fire by whipping it with their coats
and aprons, but always the flames beat them back. Helplessly they saw it eating along the mine
timbers far down the vacant passage. Little red devils of flame that winked maliciously two
hundred feet away, and went out, then sprang up again, then blazed steadily. Grant and the
two men tugged frantically at the burning boards, trying to drag them out of the passageway
into the barn, but only here and there could an end be picked up, and it took five minutes
to get half a dozen charred boards into the barn. While they struggled with the charred boards
the flames down the passage kept glowing brighter and brighter. The men were conscious that
the flames were playing around the second torch below the barn. Although they realized that
the man they sent for the wrench had nearly half a mile to go and come by the roundabout way,
they asked one another if he was making the wrench!

Men began poking their heads into the course and calling, "Need any help down there," and Grant
cried, "Yes, go to the pump in the main balcony with your buckets and get water." The man sent
for the wrench appeared down the long passage. Grant yelled,

"Hurry--hurry, man!" But though he came running, the fire seemed to be going faster than he
was. They could hear men calling and felt that there was confusion at the end of the air course
where it turned into the main passage ahead of the flames. A second torch exploded, scattering
the fire far down the course. The man, breathless and exhausted, ran up with the wrench. Then
they felt the air in the air course stop moving. They looked at one another. "Yes," said the
man with the wrench, "I told 'em to reverse the fans and when we got the water turned on we'd
hold the fire from going to the other end of the passage." He said this between gasps as he
tugged at the water plug with the wrench. He hit it a vicious blow and the cap broke.

The fan had reversed. The air was rushing back, bringing the flames to the barn. They beat
the fire madly with their coats, but in two minutes the roaring air had brought the flames
upon them. The loose timber and shavings in the barn were beginning to blaze and the men ran
for their lives down the air course. As they ran for the south passage, the smoke followed
them and they felt it in their eyes and lungs. The lights behind them were dimmed, and those
in front grew dim. They reached the passage in a cloud of smoke, but it was going up the air
shaft and did not fill the passage. "Mugs," yelled Grant to a boy driving an ore car, "run
down this passage and tell the men there's a fire--where's your father?"

"He's up yon way," called the boy, pointing in the opposite direction as he ran. "You tell
him." The fire was roaring down the air course behind them, and Grant and the three men knew
that in a few minutes the reverse air would be sucking the flames up the air shaft, cutting
off the emergency escape for the men on the first and second levels.

Grant knew that the emergency escape was not completed for the third level, but he knew that
they were using the air chute for a temporary hoist for the men from the third level and that
the main shaft was not running to the third level.

"Run down this passage, Bill," called Grant. "Get all those fellows. Evans, you call the first
level; I'll skin down this rope to the men below." In an instant, as the men were flying on
their errands, his red head disappeared down the rope into the darkness. At the bottom of the
hoist in the third level Grant found forty or fifty men at work. They were startled to see
him come down without waiting for the bucket to go up and he called breathlessly as his feet
touched the earth: "Boys, there's a fire above on the next level--I don't know how bad it is;
but it looks bad to me. They may get it out with a hose from the main bottom--if they've got
hose there that will reach any place."

"Let's go up," cried one of the men. As they started toward him, Grant threw up his hand.

"Hold on now, boys--hold on. The fans will be blowing that fire down this air shaft in a few
minutes. How far up have you got the ladders?" he asked.

Some one answered: "Still twelve feet shy." There was a scramble for the buckets, but no one
offered to man the windlass and hoist them up the air shaft. Grant was only a carpenters' boss.
The men around the buckets were miners. But he called: "Get out of there, Hughey and Mike--none
of that. We must make that ladder first--get some timbers--put the rungs three feet apart,
and work quick."

He pointed at the timbers to be used for the ladders, stepped to the windlass and cried:

"Here, Johnnie--you got no family--get hold of this windlass with me. Ready now--family men
first--you, Sam--you, Edwards--you, Lewellyn."

Then he bent to the wheel and the men in the bucket started up the shaft. The others pounded
at the ladder, and those who could find no work clambered up the stairs to the bottom of the
gap that separated them from the second level. As the men in the buckets were nearly up to
the second level, where the hoist stopped, Grant heard one of them call: "Hurry, hurry--here
she comes," and a second later a hot, smoky wind struck his face and he knew the fan was turned
again and soon would be blowing fire down the air course.

The men had the ladder almost finished. The men above on the stairs smelled the smoke and began
yelling. The bucket reached the top and was started down. Grant looked up the air shaft and
saw the fire--little flickering flames lighting up the shaft near the second level. The air
rushing down was smoky and filled with sparks. The ladder was ready and the men made a rush
with it up the stairway. Most of their lamps were put out and it was dark in the stairway.
The men were uttering hysterical, foolish cries as they rushed upward in their panic. The ladder
jolting against the sides of the chamber knocked the men off their feet and there was tumbling
and swearing and tripping and struggling.

Grant grabbed the ladder from the men and held it above his head, and called out:

"You men go up there in order. You'll not get the ladder till you straighten up."

The emergency-passage was filling with smoke. The men were coughing and gasping.

Up and down the stairs men called:

"Brace up, that's right."

"Red's right."

