When on the death of a man or woman or child, the ghostly self leaves the body, or at all events
when the funeral pig-killing has been performed, the ghost goes away to the tops of the mountains,
where apparently it exists as a ghost for ever. The shouting immediately after the death, and
afterwards at the funeral, are steps towards driving it there; and the pig-killing ceremony
completes the process. On reaching the mountains the ghost becomes one of two things. The ghost
of a young or grown-up person up to, say, forty or forty-five years of age becomes the shimmering
light upon the ground and undergrowth, which occurs here and there where the dense forest of
the mountains is penetrated by the sun's beams. It is apparently only the light which shimmers
on the ground and undergrowth, and not that in the air. The ghost of an elderly person over
forty or forty-five years of age becomes a large sort of fungus, which is indigenous to the
mountains, where alone it is found. Any native who on a hunting expedition or otherwise meets
with a glade in which this shimmering light occurs will carefully pass round it, instead of
going across it; and any native finding one of these fungi will neither eat nor touch, nor
even tread upon it; though indeed, as regards the eating, I understand that this particular
fungus is one of the poisonous non-edible forms. A native who, after the recent death of another,
is travelling in the mountains, and there finds a young fungus of this species only just starting
into growth, will think that it is probably the ghost of the recently departed one.

As regards the use by me with reference to both sunbeams and fungi of the word "becomes" I
recognise that it may justify much doubt and questioning. The idea of actually becoming the
flickering light or the fungus, as distinguished from that of entering into or haunting it,
is a difficult one to grasp, especially as regards the flickering light. I tried to get to
the bottom of this question when I was at Mafulu; but the belief as to actual becoming was
insisted upon, and I could get no further. I cannot doubt, however, that there is much room
for further investigation on the point, which is of a character concerning which misapprehension
may well arise, especially in dealing with such simple and primitive people as are the Mafulu
natives.

The foods of these ghosts in both their forms are the ghostly elements of the usual native
vegetable foods (sweet potato, yam, taro, banana, and in fact every vegetable food) and the
ghostly elements of the excrement of the still living natives; and the ghosts come down from
the mountains to the villages and gardens to procure these foods. Here again the difficulty
as to meaning above referred to arises, as they can hardly imagine that the flickering lights
cease to flicker in their mountain glades, or that the fungi cease to exist in their mountain
habitats during these food-seeking incursions; and yet, unless this be so, the superstitious
difficulty is increased. A ghost is also sometimes for some reason or other dissatisfied with
his mountain abode; and he will then return to the village (not apparently in the visible form
of a flickering light or a fungus).

As the intentions of the ghost towards living humanity are always evil, his visits, whether
for procuring food or in consequence of dissatisfaction with his habitat, are feared by the
people; but I could not ascertain what was the nature of the injuries by the ghost to themselves
of which they were afraid, nor could I hear of any actual instance of a disaster or misfortune
which had been attributed to the machinations of such a ghost. When sleeping in their dark
enclosed houses, however, the people fill up all openings by which the ghost might enter (this
does not apply to the emone, the entrance openings of which are not closed at night; but perhaps
the fact that a number of men are always sleeping together there gives them confidence); and
when the Mission Station at Mafulu was started the natives were amazed at the missionaries
daring to sleep alone in rooms with open doors and windows, through which the ghosts might enter.

Having by the shouting prior to and at the dead man's funeral wholly or partially driven his
ghost to the mountains, and in some way, as it would seem, further placated or influenced the
ghost by the subsequent pig-killing over or by his grave at the funeral feast, there is no
method of which I could gain information by which the people can actually keep him there, or
prevent his periodic returns to the village and gardens for food, or his return from a mountain
home with which he is dissatisfied; and there are apparently no prayers, incantations or other
ceremonies for the purpose of placating, or intimidating, or in any way influencing the ghost.
This statement is subject, however, to the existence of the practice of pig-killing at the
various other ceremonies before described (always apparently done under or by or on the site
of a chiefs grave), which is evidently superstitious in character, and must have reference
to the ghosts of the departed chiefs and notables, being intended, or having originally been
intended, to placate or influence them in some way or other; and especially it would seem that
this must be so as regards the dipping of the mourner's string necklace in dead pigs' blood
at the mourning-removal ceremony, and as regards the pig-killing at the big feast, at which
the skulls and bones of all the then departed chiefs and notables are carefully collected,
and made the objects of ceremonious dipping in blood, or touching with bones so dipped, and
after which these skulls and bones may be thrown away, as not requiring further ceremony. And
concerning all these ceremonies, if we bear in mind the special fear which many primitive people
seem to have of the ghosts of their great men, as distinguished from those of the unimportant
ones, it seems, I think, to be natural that the graves and the skulls and bones of the great
ones should be those which are specially dealt with, and the dealing with which may possibly,
so far as the big feasts are concerned, have been the original purpose for which the feasts
were held.

The mental attitude and conduct of the people towards ghosts may have originated in some form
of ancestor worship, but I found nothing now existing to indicate this; and in particular I
could learn nothing of any recognition of, or ceremonial observances with reference to, the
individual ghosts of known persons, as distinguished from the ghosts generally.

I could find no direct information as to any belief in ghosts of animals or plants; but the
fact that the living edible plants have a ghostly self, upon which the human ghosts feed, seems
to involve the idea during the life of those plants; and in that case one sees no reason why
the ghost of the plant should not survive the plant itself, just as the ghost of the living
person survives him at his death. Also the existence of a ghostly element in human excrement
opens out a wide field of ghostly possibilities.

Spirits which have never been human beings are also malevolent; though when we come to the
operations of magic men or sorcerers, and to incantations and the use of charms, the powers
in connection with all of which appear to be ascribed to spirits, it will be noticed that these
are by no means necessarily and invariably engaged or used for malevolent purposes.

I was not able to obtain any satisfactory information as to these spirits, or their supposed
attributes, nor, except as regards illness and death, as to the nature of, and ground for,
the fears which the natives feel concerning them; indeed, this is a subject upon which most
natives all over the world are inclined to be reticent, partly or largely from fear. Even as
regards the sacred places which these spirits are supposed to haunt, though the natives are
not unwilling to pass them, and will mention the fact that they are sacred, they are unwilling
to talk about them. My notes as to spirits, other than those in connection with sorcery producing
illness and death, must therefore be practically confined to the sacred places haunted by the
spirits, and the demeanour and acts of the natives with reference to, and when they pass, these
places.

Speaking generally, any place which has something specially peculiar or unusual in its appearance
is likely to be regarded as the abode of a spirit. A waterfall, or a deep still pool in the
course of a river (but not the river itself), or a deep narrow rocky river ravine, or a strangely
shaped rock come under this category. There are also certain trees and creepers which are regarded
as implying the presence of a spirit in their vicinity, although that vicinity has in itself
nothing unusual. I can, however, only give a few illustrative examples of this general idea.

There are three special trees and two or three special creepers which imply the presence of
a spirit. What the creepers are I could not ascertain; but the trees are a very large palm
which grows on the mountains and not on the coast, a form of pine tree, [109] and the gabi
fig-tree, used for burial of chiefs. [110] It does not necessarily follow that every specimen
of any one of these trees and creepers is spirit-haunted; but some are known to be so, and
all are apparently so much under suspicion that, though the natives will speak of them and
will pass them, they are afraid to cut them down.

At the time when the path near the newly erected Mission Station at Mafulu was being opened
some of these creepers had to be cleared away, and the Mission Fathers had the utmost difficulty
with the natives, only two or three of whom could be persuaded to help in the work, whilst
the others stood aloof and afraid. In the same way, when the Fathers wanted to cut down some
of the special palms, only two natives were induced to help in this, and even they only did
so on the condition that the Fathers themselves made the first strokes; and the Fathers were
warned by the natives that evil would befall them. It was a curious coincidence that the Father
who did this tree-cutting, being then and having been for a long time past perfectly well in
health, was that evening taken ill with a bad sore, which nearly necessitated his being carried
down to the head Mission Station on the coast.

There is a very common ceremony performed when natives, in travelling through the country,
pass a spirit-haunted spot. The leader of the party turns round, and in a low voice tells the
others that they are approaching the spot, whereupon they all become silent, though up to that
point they have been chattering. The leader then takes a wisp of grass and ties it in a knot,
and all the others do the same. They then walk on in silence for a period, which may be anything
from five to fifteen minutes, after which, as they pass the spot, the leader turns round and
throws his bunch of grass on the ground, and the others do the same. In this way they avert
the danger and afterwards chatter as before. [111] Another somewhat similar ceremony commences,
like the former one, with silence; but, instead of throwing grass down as they pass the haunted
spot, the visible sign of which in this case is a hole in the ground, the leader stops and
looks round at the others, and then presses the palm of his hand down into the interior of
the hole, and the others do the same; and after this all is safe and well, as in the former
case. In travelling through the country these holes with numerous impressions of hands in them
are to be seen; and you may in one day's journey pass several of these signs of haunted places,
of either or both sorts, within a comparatively short distance of one another. The hole in
which the people put their hands may not have originally existed, and may have been produced
by the oft-repeated pressure of hands on the ground as natives passed the haunted spot; but
on this point I am unable to make any statement. Nor have I been able to ascertain what the
difference, if any, is, or has been, between the places where they put grass and those in which
they merely press the hands.

I found no evidence of any general idea of supernatural powers being possessed by natural inanimate
objects, such as rivers or rocks; but, as already stated, fishers are in the habit of addressing
the stream in supplication for fish, and it is possible there are other examples of the same
sort of thing, which I did not discover.

Magic or sorcery, and those who practise it, and incantations and charms, and those who supply
charms, are naturally associated with either ghosts or spirits, or both. Among the Mafulu people
they are, I was assured, associated solely with spirits, and not with ghosts; and, though I
have no confirmatory evidence of the accuracy of this statement, I can only in these notes
assume that it is correct. It may well be, however, that in the minds of the people themselves
the distinction between the ghost of a person who has lived and died and the spirit which has
never lived in visible human form is not really quite clearly defined; or that powers which
are now regarded by them as spirits have had an origin, possibly long ago, in what were then
believed to be ghosts. I shall revert to this point at a later stage.

Sorcery.

The Mafulu magic men or sorcerers are different from those of the Mekeo plains. There is not
among the Mafulu, as there is in Mekeo, a large body of powerful professional sorcerers, who
are a source of constant terror to the other people of their own villages, and are yet to a
certain extent relied upon and desired by those people as a counterpoise to the powers of sorcerers
of other villages; and a Mafulu native, unless prevented by a fear of outside hostility in
no way connected with the supernatural, will travel alone outside his own community in a way
in which fear of the sorcerers would make a Mekeo native unwilling to do so. The Mafulu sorcerers
are a somewhat less powerful people; but they claim, and are supposed to have, certain powers
of divination, or actual causation, or both, of certain things. So far as I could learn, the
sorcerer's supernatural powers would never be exercised in a hostile way against anyone of
his own village, or indeed of his own clan, or even, as a rule, of his own community. Apparently
the sorcerer's victim is nearly always a member of some other community; and the sorcerers
of a community do not appear to be in any way either feared or shunned by the members of that
community. And, even as regards their acts of hostility against members of other communities,
these do not seem to be performed to an extent in any way approaching what is found in Mekeo.

It seemed to me at first, as regards these sorcerers, that there was a confusion in the Mafulu
mind between divination and causation. The question as to this arose specially in connection
with the ceremony for ascertaining whether a chief was or was not going to die. The people
of a clan and the ailing chief certainly assume that the sorcerers who perform the ceremony
under instructions, whether they be of the same community or of some other community, will
by their magical powers merely divine the death or recovery of the chief; and the idea does
not enter their heads that these sorcerers may actually cause the death. And yet they will
accuse a hostile sorcerer of causing the death by an exactly similar ceremony, and will go
to war over the matter. Probably, however, it is rather a question of the sorcerer's assumed
volition--that is, it is assumed that the friendly sorcerer does not want the chief to die,
and the people rely upon him to confine himself to a divination ceremony, and not to engage
in hostile sorcery; whereas a hostile sorcerer might do the latter. I may add that I was led
to suspect that the burning test was regarded as being only a matter of divination, and that
the causation, if it occurred, was effected by means of the previous incantation.

There are also, besides the sorcerers, a number of specialists, who can hardly perhaps be called
true sorcerers, but who have certain specific powers, or are acquainted with certain specific
forms of incantation, and whose services are from time to time sought by the people. It is
impossible for me to point to any definite line of demarcation between the true sorcerers and
these smaller people; and it cannot be doubted that the powers of the latter, like those of
the former, are, or have been, based upon the supernatural, even though they themselves do
not claim to be and are not regarded as being magic men in the highest sense. I think I may
regard them as being more or less the Mafulu equivalents of the Roro individuals whom Dr. Seligmann
calls "departmental experts." [112]

Dealing first with the true sorcerers, they undoubtedly include among their number the men
who perform the special ceremonial already described for ascertaining whether a sick chief
is or is not destined to die. They also seem to include the makers or providers of the various
charms, including those which are carried in the little charm bags and the love charms used
by young men, as already mentioned. There are also two other matters which are regarded as
coming within the province of the true sorcerers, of which one relates to rain and the other
relates to illness and death. I will deal with them separately.

The rain sorcerer is apparently merely a diviner. Dr. Seligmann would perhaps include him among
the departmental experts, but the Fathers of the Mission regard him as being a true sorcerer.
He is the man to whom the people go in anticipation of a proposed important event, such as
a big feast, or perhaps a fighting or large hunting expedition, to ascertain and inform them
whether the period in which it is proposed that the event shall occur will be fine or wet;
but he does not profess to be able to do more than this, and they never expect him to prevent
or bring about the rain, or in any way hold him responsible for the weather as it may in fact
eventually occur.

The sorcery connected with illness and death is not so simple; and there is no doubt that it
is not confined to powers of divination, but includes powers of actual causation. This department
of sorcery obviously includes the ceremonial in connection with the supposed dying chief. But
it is not confined to this ceremony, as it is generally believed by the Mafulu people that
sickness, which does not necessarily end in death, and death itself, can be, and commonly is,
brought about by the operation of sorcerers in one way or another through the medium of certain
things. The only things of this nature concerning which I was able to obtain information are
(1) the inedible part of some vegetable food which the victim has recently eaten (e.g., the
outside part of a sweet potato or banana or the cane part of a sugar cane), and (2) the victim's
discharged excrement or urine. I found no trace of any use for purposes of sorcery of the edible
remnants of the victim's food, nor (except as regards a woman's placenta, to which I shall
refer presently) of any part of his body, such as his hair or nails; and, in fact, the free
way in which the natives throw away their hair when cut is inconsistent with any belief as
to its possible use against them.

First, the inedible remnants of recently consumed vegetable food. The use of this as a medium
for causing illness and death is apparently confined to the case of a victim who has passed
the stage of very young childhood. Why this is so I could not learn; though in point of fact
a mere infant would hardly be eating such things as a regular practice. A man or woman, however,
never carelessly throws aside his own food remnants of this character; and his reason for this
is fear of sorcery. He carefully keeps them under his control until he can take them to a river,
into which he throws them, after which they are harmless as a medium against him. The fear
concerning these remains is that a sorcerer will use them for a ceremony somewhat similar to
that described in connection with the death of a chief, but in a hostile way. No such precautions
are taken with reference to similar food eaten by very young children.

Secondly, the discharged excrement and urine. This, for some reason, only applies to the case
of an infant or quite young child. Here again I could not learn the reason for the limitation;
but it is confirmed by the fact that grown-up persons take no pains whatever to avoid the passing
of these things into the possession of other people, whereas, as regards little children, the
mothers or other persons having charge of them always take careful precautions. The mother
picks up her little child's excrement, and wraps it in a leaf, and then either carefully hides
it in a hole in the ground, or throws it into the river, or places it in a little raised-up
nest-like receptacle, which is sometimes erected near the house for this purpose, and where
also it is regarded as being safe. One of these receptacles, shaped like an inverted cone,
is shown in Plate 91, and a somewhat similar one is seen in Plate 64. As regards the urine,
she pours upon it, as it lies on the ground or on the house floor or platform, a little clean
water which she obtains from any handy source, or sometimes from a little store which, when
away from other water supply, she often carries about with her for the purpose. I could get
no information as to the way in which the sorcerer would use the excrement or urine as a medium
for hostile purposes; though there is apparently no process similar to that of the fire used
in connection with the inedible food remnants of the adult.

It will have been noticed that the mode of rendering the inedible food remnants of a grown-up
person immune from sorcery, and one of the methods of making the infants' excrement immune,
is that of throwing them into the river; and even as regards infants' urine, which apparently
is not, and as a rule hardly could be, actually thrown into the river, the protection is obtained
by pouring water upon it. I think that the belief among the islands of the Pacific in the power
of water to protect against the machinations of spirits or ghosts is not confined to the Mafulu
natives, or indeed to those of New Guinea. Dr. Codrington mentions its existence as regards
human excrement in Melanesia. [113] I would also refer to a custom of the Mafulu women after
childbirth of throwing the placenta into the river, a practice which is similar to that of
the Koita women, who drop the placenta into the sea. [114] Probably these practices relating
to placenta are also based upon some idea of protection from sorcerers and spirits, although
I was informed that among the Mafulu there is no superstitious fear connected with the matter
now. If the custom is in fact superstitious in origin, the list of media for the use of sorcery
already given by me requires enlarging. [115]

