As to the compensation of the wealthier classes, this becomes entirely a secondary question,
a matter of pure expediency. The great British scientist and Socialist, Alfred Russell Wallace,
and the moderate Socialist, Professor Anton Menger of Vienna, propose almost identical plans
of compromise with the wealthy classes,--compromises which would perhaps result in a saving
to a Socialist government and might therefore be advisable, aside from any sentimental question
of protecting or abolishing vested "rights." Professor Wallace, objects to "continuing any
payments of interests beyond the lives of the present receivers and their direct heirs [now
living], who may have been brought up to expect such inheritance." For if we were to compensate
any others, Wallace points out that we would be "actually robbing the present generation to
the enrichment and supposed advantage of certain unborn individuals, who in most instances,
as we now know, are much more likely to be injured than benefited."[293] Professor Menger proposes
that, in exchange for property taken by the government from owners of large fortunes, there
should be allotted to them, and their descendants now living, a modest annuity "sufficient
to satisfy their legitimate needs," as being more reasonable than Wallace's plan of such an
income as they were "brought up to expect."[294] But in the long run the difference between
the two methods would be immaterial--and the one chosen would doubtless depend on the social
or anti-social attitude assumed by the wealthy. In either case there would be no unearned incomes
in any generation not yet born. On the other hand, it is perfectly possible that a Socialist
Party which had seized the reins of political power might, through motives of caution and self-protection,
use greater severity against those of the capitalists whom they thought had played an unfair
part in the welfare against the installation of the new government. It is scarcely to be doubted,
for instance, that those capitalists who tried to embroil us in foreign wars in order to prevent
the establishment of social democracy would probably be exiled and their property confiscated.
Certainly these measures would be employed against all such persons as had counseled or participated
in the suspension of civil government or other violent measures.

But where will the money come from even for the payment of such limited compensation as the
Socialists decide upon? Assuming that the stocks and bonds of the railways and other large
businesses were paid for at the cost of reproduction, or, let us say, at 50 per cent their
present market value, a vast amount would still be required. The Socialist answer to this question
is very brightly given by America's most popular and influential Socialist organ, the Appeal
to Reason. It reminds us that the Socialists, once having the reins of political power, will
then be the possessors of all the credit of the government.

     "How much money," asks the Appeal, "did Morgan need in order to
     buy up all the independent steel companies for the steel trust?"
     And it answers: "Not a penny. Rather than needing money, he issued
     stock in the new concern in payment for the old independent mills,
     and after all was done proceeded to almost double his stock! In
     other words, instead of needing money, he acquired a vast sum in
     the transaction. One who is familiar with the way the railroads
     have been built and the vast fortunes erected understands that
     there was almost no investment. It all came through a series of
     tricks. Those tricks, as honest in the reversal as when the
     capitalist played them, can be reversed. Hardly a corporation but
     has forfeited its charter. With the charter cancelled stocks would
     tumble and the water would speedily go. Socialists are not fools
     that they should merely fall into the hands of men who think that
     they can unload on them in such a manner as to saddle a perpetual
     debt on the people. If the steel trust, after organizing and buying
     up smaller concerns, could still issue vast series of stocks and
     bonds, why could not the Socialists issue all the money they needed
     to accomplish the same things? And would not the money based on
     lands and mills be as good security as the money we now have based
     on nothing under the sun but inflated railroad and trust stocks
     [securities]?"

Undoubtedly some such method will be followed--with those essential industries that will not
already have become collective property under capitalism.

In so far as "State Socialism" or collectivist capitalism will have paved the way, by extensive
government ownership, the problem of confiscation or compensation becomes much simplified.
Kautsky has very ably summarized the prevailing Socialist plan for dealing with it at this point:--

     "As soon as all capitalist wealth had taken the form of
     (government) bonds, it would be possible to raise a progressive
     income, property and inheritance tax, to a height which until then
     was impossible.

     "It is one of our demands at the present time that such a tax shall
     be substituted for all others, especially for the indirect tax.

     "But even if we had to-day the power to carry through such a
     measure with the support of the other parties, which is plainly
     impossible, because no bourgeois party would go so far, we would at
     once find ourselves in the presence of great difficulties.

     "It is a well-known fact that the higher the tax the greater the
     efforts at tax dodging.

     "But when a condition exists where any concealment of income and
     property is impossible, even then we would not be in a position to
     force the income and property tax as high as we wish, because the
     capitalists, if the tax on their income or property pressed them
     too closely, would simply leave the State.

     "Above a certain measure such taxes cannot rise to-day even if we
     had the political power.

     "The situation is completely changed, however, when capitalist
     property takes the form of public debts.

     "The property to-day that is so hard to find then lies in broad
     day-light.

     "It would then only be necessary to declare that all bonds must be
     public, and it would be known exactly what was the value of every
     property and every capitalist income.

     "The tax would then be raised as high as desired without the
     possibility of tax frauds.

     "It would then also be impossible to escape taxation by emigration,
     for the tax could simply be taken from the interest before it was
     paid out. [A similar tax exists in France to-day.]

     "If necessary it might be put so high as to be equivalent, or
     nearly so, to a confiscation of the great properties.

     "It might be well to ask what is the advantage of this round-about
     way of confiscation over that of taking the direct road?

     "The difference between the two methods is not so trifling as at
     first appears.

     "Direct confiscation of all capitalists would strike all, the small
     and the great, those utterly useless to labor, in the same manner.

     "It is difficult, often impossible, in this method to separate the
     large possession from the small, when these are united in the form
     of money capital in the same undertaking.

     "Direct confiscation would complete this quickly, often at one
     stroke, while confiscation through taxation permits the
     disappearance of capitalists' property through a long-drawn-out
     process, proceeding in the exact degree in which the new order is
     established and its benevolent influence made perceptible.

     "Confiscation in this way loses its harshness and becomes more
     acceptable and less painful.

     "The more peaceable the conquest of political power by the
     proletariat, and the more firmly organized and enlightened it is,
     the more we can expect that the primitive forms of confiscation
     will be softened." (My italics.)[295]

Nor are any of the more influential Socialists anxious to make a clean sweep of private enterprise
in industry. It is only the more important and fundamental industries, those which underlie
all the processes of manufacturing, or furnish the sheer necessities of the people, that must
necessarily be directly controlled by a Socialist society. "It may be granted," says Kautsky,
"that small establishments will have a definite position in the future in many branches of
industry that produce directly for human consumption, for machines manufacture essentially
only products in bulk, while many purchasers desire that their personal taste shall be considered.
It is easily possible that under a proletarian régime the number of small businesses may increase
as the well-being of the masses increases." Of such industries Kautsky says that they can produce
for private customers or even for the open market. As to-day, he insists, so also in the future,
it will be open to the working people to employ themselves either in public or private industry.

     "A seamstress, for example," he says, "can occupy herself for a
     time in a national factory, and at another time make dresses for
     private customers at home, then again she can sew for another
     customer in her own house, and finally she may, with a few
     comrades, unite in a coöperative for the manufacture of clothing
     for sale.

     "The most manifold forms of property in the means of
     production--national, municipal, coöperatives of consumption and
     production and private industry can exist beside each other in a
     Socialist society--the most diverse forms of industrial
     organization, bureaucratic, trades union, coöperative and
     individual; the most diverse forms of remunerative labor, fixed
     wages, time wages, piece wages, profit sharing in the economies in
     raw material, machinery, etc., profit sharing in the results of
     intensive labor; the most diverse forms of distribution of
     products, like contract by purchase from the warehouses of the
     State, from municipalities, from coöperatives of production, from
     producers themselves, etc., etc. The same manifold character of
     economic mechanism that exists to-day is possible in a Socialistic
     society. Only the hunting and the hunted, the struggling and the
     resisting, the annihilating and being annihilated of the present
     competitive struggle are excluded, and therewith the contrast
     between exploiter and exploited." (Italics mine.)[296]

Equally important, or more important, than private coöperative industries in the Socialist
State, it is expected, will be the increase of private organizations of other kinds, especially
in the fields of publications, education, etc., by what Kautsky calls free associations, which
will serve art and science and public life and advance production in these spheres in the most
diverse ways, or undertake it directly, as the associations which to-day bring out plays, publish
newspapers, purchase artistic works, publish writings, fit out scientific expeditions. He expects
such private organizations to play an even more important rôle than the government, for "it
is their destiny to enter into the place now occupied by capital and individual production
and to organize and to lead mankind as a social being."[297] (Italics mine.)

     "The utmost restriction of private property under Socialism," Mrs.
     Gilman says, "leaves us still every article of personal use and
     pleasure. One may still 'own' land by paying the government for it
     as now; with such taxation, however, as would make it very
     expensive to own too much! One may own one's house and all that is
     in it: one's clothes and tools and decorations; one's horses,
     carriages and automobiles; one's flying machines--presently. All
     'personal property' remains in our personal hands.

     "But no man or group of men could own the country's coal and decide
     how much the public can have, and what we must pay for it. Private
     holding of public property would be abolished."[298]

It can never be too often repeated or too strongly emphasized that, with some unfortunate exceptions,
from the time of Marx to the present, Socialists have opposed not private property, but capitalism.
It is the domination of society by the capitalists, i.e. "capitalism" or the capitalist system,
that is to be done away with.

     "The distinguishing feature of Communism," wrote Marx, using this
     word instead of Socialism, "is not the abolition of property
     generally, but the abolition of capitalist property. It is sought not to increase the
power of higher officials over government employees and citizens, but,
on the contrary, to limit their powers to the necessities of industry
itself, and to leave the most perfect and complete freedom to the
individual in every other sphere, as well as in industry, so far as
the physical conditions themselves allow. There is no doubt, for
instance, that whole departments of restrictive legislation directed
against individual liberty would at once be repealed by any Socialist
government (though not by a government of so-called "State Socialists").

Perhaps the idea is best expressed by the Belgian Socialist, Vandervelde:--

     "The capitalist State has as an end the government of men; it needs
     centralized power, ministers ready to employ force, functionaries
     blindly obeying the least sign. Enlarge its domain [i.e.
     institute 'State Socialism.'--W.] and you will create a vast
     barracks, you will institute a republic of scoundrels.

     "The Socialist State, on the contrary, will have for its end an
     administration of things; it will need a decentralized
     organization, practical men of science, industrial forces over
     which spontaneity and initiative will be required above every other
     quality."[300]

Surely such a State does not resemble in any way the paternalistic, bureaucratic capitalism
or "State Socialism" towards which we are at present tending.

     "It is quite as possible," says Mr. Spargo, "for a government to
     exploit the workers in the interests of a privileged class as it is
     for private individuals, or quasi-private corporations, to do so.
     Germany with her State-owned railroads, or Austria-Hungary and
     Russia with their great government monopolies, are not more
     Socialistic, but less so than the United States, where these things
     are owned by individuals or corporations. The United States is
     nearer Socialism for the reason that its political institutions
     have developed farther towards pure democracy than those of the
     other countries named.... The real motif of Socialism is not
     merely to change the form of industrial organization and ownership,
     but to eliminate exploitation.... Every abuse of capitalism calls
     forth a fresh installment of legislation restrictive of personal
     liberty, with an army of prying officials. Legislators keep busy
     making laws, judges keep busy interpreting and enforcing them, and
     a swarm of petty officials are kept busy attending to this
     intricate machine of popular government. In sober truth, it must be
     said that capitalism has created, and could not exist without, the
     very bureaucracy it charges Socialism with attempting to foist upon
     the nation."[301]

The Socialists are as far from proposing anything resembling a system of mechanical and absolute
equality as they are from attacking personal or industrial liberty. Ninety-nine and one half
per cent of the product of the men of the different social classes, says Edward Bellamy, "is
due in every case to advantages afforded by modern civilization."[302] So that if one man is
twice as capable as another, it merely raises the proportion of the product due to his personal
efforts from one half of one per cent to one per cent. International Socialism realizes with
Bellamy that the product is social in far greater proportion than is at present recognized,
but it does not deny that there are cases in which the contribution of the individual is more
important even than everything that can be attributed to his social advantages. It does not
propose, therefore, to level incomes. It is true that this communist principle of Bellamy's
has a wide practical application both in the Socialist scheme of things and in present-day
society, as, for example, in free schools and parks, and in the "State Socialist" program.
But the extension of such communism, the distribution of services to the general public without
charge, is due to-day, not to any acceptance of the general principle, but to the fact that
it is inconvenient or impossible to attempt to distribute the cost of many services among individuals
in proportion as they take advantage of them.

Kautsky expresses the prevailing Socialist view when he says that the principle of equality,
if distinguished from mere artificial leveling, will play a certain rôle in a Socialist society.
Without any definite legislation in that direction the natural economic forces of such a society
will tend to raise low wages, and at the same time, by the increase of competition for higher
positions, to lower somewhat the highest salaries. For if Socialists are opposed to any kind
of artificial equality or leveling, they are still more opposed to artificial inequality, and
all the initial advantages that arise out of the possession of wealth or privileges in education
will be done away with.[303]

On the supposition that Socialism proposes a communistic leveling of income, it has been stated
very often by Socialists that it would be necessary to abolish wages, but there is no authority
for this either from Karl Marx or from any of his most prominent successors. It is "wage slavery"
or "the wage system" that is to be abolished. In his letter on the Gotha Program written in
1875 Marx said that there will be applied to wages "the principle which at present governs
the exchange or merchandise to that degree in which identical values are being exchanged";
that is to say, supply and demand, when it operates freely, will give us a standard also in
a Socialist system. There will be no starvation wages, no inflated salaries, no "rent" of educational
advantages, no unearned income and no monopoly prices, but automatically adjustable prices
and wages will continue. In 1896 Jules Guesde, perhaps the best known disciple of Marx in France,
expressed nearly the same idea in the Chamber of Deputies--"The play of supply and demand,"
he said, "will have sufficed to determine without any arbitrary or violent act, that problem
of distribution which had seemed insoluble to you before."

