Perhaps few persons are aware how often they imitate this great historian. Thus, says the Edinburgh
Review, "Children and servants are remarkably Herodotean in their style of narration.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPLENDOUR OF THE CHURCH OF ROME.

"In the days of her power and importance, the church of Rome numbered amongst her vassals and
servants the most renowned spirits of the earth. She called them from obscurity to fame, and
to all who laboured to spread and sustain her influence, she became a benefactress. Her wealth
was immense, for she drew her revenue from the fear or superstition of man, and her spirit
was as magnificent as her power. The cathedrals which she every where reared are yet the wonders
of Europe for their beauty and extent; and in her golden days, the priests who held rule within
them were, in wealth and strength, little less than princes. For a time her treasure was wisely
and munificently expended; and the works she wrought, and the good deeds she performed, are
her honour and our shame. She spread a table to the hungry; she gave lodgings to the houseless;
welcomed the wanderer; and rich and poor, and learned and illiterate, alike received shelter
and hospitality. Under her roof the scholar completed his education; the historian sought and
found the materials for his history; the minstrel chanted lays of mingled piety and love for
his loaf and raiment; the sculptor carved in wood, or cast in silver, some popular saint; and
the painter gave the immortality of his colours to some new legend or miracle."--All who have
visited the cathedrals and churches of the continent, or who have studied their history at
home, must acknowledge the truth and force of these excellent observations. They are copied
from an ably-written article on the History of Italian Painting, in the second number of the
Foreign Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

Frederick the Great, in a letter to Voltaire, says, "I look on men as a herd of deer in a great
man's park, whose only business is to people the enclosures."--This is one of the great men
of history.

       *       *       *       *       *

POTATOES.

A few years after the discovery, potatoes were carried to Spain at first as sweetmeats and
delicacies. Oviedo says that "they were a dainty dish to set before the king," Labat describes
potatoes a hundred years ago, as cultivated in Western Africa, and says of them, "Il y en a
en Irlande, et en Angleterre," and that he had seen very good ones at Rochelle.

       *       *       *       *       *

PAINTING

Represents nature, or poetic nature at the most, and, therefore, addresses itself as much as
poetry does to the feeling and imagination of man. Though it deals in nature exalted by genius,
embellished by art and purified by taste, still it is nature, still it makes its appeal to
the men of this world, and by them it is applauded or condemned. It works for men, and not
for gods; therefore every man, as far as his taste is natural and sound, is a judge of its
productions.--For. Rev.

       *       *       *       *       *

LAVER.

Such of our readers as are not addicted to epicurism may have been somewhat puzzled at the
display of "Fine Fresh Laver" in the Italian warehouses and provision shops of the metropolis.
The truth is, laver is a kind of reddish sea-weed, forming a jelly when boiled, which is eaten
by some of the poor people in Angus with bread instead of butter; but which the rich have elevated
into one of the greatest dainties of their tables. In Scotland, laver is called slake; and
Dr. Clarke mentions that it is used with the fulmar to make a kind of broth, which constitutes
the first and principal meal of the inhabitants. It is curious to know that what is eaten at
a duchess's table in Piccadilly as a first-rate luxury, is used by the poor people of Scotland
twice or thrice a day. It is an expensive dish; but knowledge of this fact may perhaps abate
its cost.

       *       *       *       *       *

GARDENS.

Ferdinand I. of Naples prided himself upon the variety and excellence of the fruit produced
in his royal gardens, one of which was called Paradise. Duke Hercules, of Ferrara, had a garden
celebrated for its fruits in one of the islands of the Po. The Duke of Milan, Ludovico, carried
this kind of luxury so far, that he had a travelling fruit-garden; and the trees were brought
to his table, or into his chamber, that he might with his own hands gather the living fruit.

       *       *       *       *       *

SNUFF.

Even among the rudest and poorest of the inhabitants of Scotland, and at a period when their
daily meal must have been always scanty, and frequently precarious, one luxury seems to have
established itself, which has unaccountably found its way into every part of the world. We
mean tobacco. The inhabitants of Scotland, and especially of the Highlands, are notorious for
their fondness for snuff; and many were the contrivances by which they formerly reduced the
tobacco into powder. Dr. Jamieson, the etymologist, defines a mill to be the vulgar name for
a snuff-box, one especially of a cylindrical form, or resembling an inverted cone. "No other
name," says he, "was formerly in use. The reason assigned for this designation is, that when
tobacco was introduced into this country, those who wished to have snuff were wont to toast
the leaves before the fire, and then bruise them with a bit of wood in the box; which was therefore
called a mill, from the snuff being ground in it." This, however, is said to be not quite correct;
the old snuff-machine being like a nutmeg-grater, which made snuff as often as a pinch was
required.

       *       *       *       *       *

Estimating the population of London and its environs at 1,200,000, its proportion of paupers
would amount to 100,000!

       *       *       *       *       *

SCOTCH LIVING.

Roast meat was formerly seldom seen among farmers in Scotland; and is even now rare, compared
with its use among the same class in England. Less than half a century ago, a mart was regularly
bought or fattened by the most respectable farmers, and even by many citizens. This was a cow
or ox killed and salted at Martinmas for winter provision; a custom which, though not uncommon
in England, perhaps, one hundred years ago, has certainly not been followed, except in remote
and sequestered districts, or by very old-fashioned farmers within that period.

       *       *       *       *       *

Falstaff's "Buck-Basket" has puzzled the commentators; but Dr. Jamieson thus explains it:--Bouk
is the Scotch word for a lye used to steep foul linen in, before it is washed in water; the
buckbasket, therefore, is the basket employed to carry clothes, after they have been bouked,
to the washing-place.

       *       *       *       *       *

PLEASURES OF EGYPT.

Sweet are the songs of Egypt on paper. Who is not ravished with gums, balms, dates, figs, pomegranates,
circassia, and sycamores, without recollecting that amidst these are dust, hot and fainting
winds, bugs, mosquitos, spiders, flies, leprosy, fevers, and almost universal blindness.--Ledyard's
Travels.--The same writer also says the people are poorly clad, the youths naked, and that
they rank infinitely below any savages he ever saw.

       *       *       *       *       *

There cannot be a more ill-boding sign to a nation, than when the people, to avoid hardships
at home, are forced by heaps to forsake their native country.--Milton.

       *       *       *       *       *

TOBACCO.

