SEARCHLIGHTS ON HEALTH

THE SCIENCE OF EUGENICS

       *       *       *       *       *

  A Guide to Purity and Physical Manhood
  Advice to Maiden, Wife and Mother
  Love, Courtship, and Marriage

       *       *       *       *       *

By

PROF. B.G. JEFFERIS, M.D., PH. D.

and

J.L. NICOLS, A.M.

With Excerpts from Well-Known Authorities

  REV. LEONARD DAWSON
  DR. M.J. SAVAGE
  REV. H.R. HAWEIS
  DR. PANCOAST
  DR. STALL
  DR. J.F. SCOTT
  DR. GEORGE NAPHEYS
  DR. STOCKHAM
  DR. T.D. NICHOLLS
  DR. R.L. DUGDALE
  DR. JOHN COWAN
  DR. M.L. HOLBROOK

       *       *       *       *       *

  Published by
  J.L. NICHOLS & COMPANY
  Naperville, Illinois, U.S.A.
  1920
  AGENTS WANTED

"Vice has no friend like the prejudice which claims to be virtue."--Lord Lytton.

"When the judgment's weak, the prejudice is strong."--Kate O'Hare.

"It is the first right of every child to be well born."

       *       *       *       *       *

COPYRIGHTED 1919,

BY

J.L. NICHOLS & CO.

OVER 1,000,000 COPIES SOLD

       *       *       *       *       *

TABLE OF CONTENTS.

  Knowledge is Safety, page 3
  The Beginning of Life, page 5
  Health a Duty, page 7
  Value of Reputation, page 9
  Influence of Associates, page 11
  Self-Control, page 12
  Habit, page 17
  A Good Name, page 18
  The Mother's Influence, page 21
  Home Power, page 23
  To Young Women, page 26
  Influence of Female Character, page 30
  Personal Purity, page 31
  How To Write All Kinds of Letters, page 34
  How To Write a Love Letter, page 37
  Forms of Social Letters, page 39
  Letter Writing, page 43
  Forms of Love Letters, page 44
  Hints and Helps on Good Behavior at All Times and at All Places, page 49
  A Complete Etiquette in a Few Practical Rules, page 52
  Etiquette of Calls, page 56
  Etiquette in Your Speech, page 57
  Etiquette of Dress and Habits, page 58
  Etiquette on the Street, page 59
  Etiquette Between Sexes, page 60
  Practical Rules on Table Manners, page 63
  Social Duties, page 65
  Politeness, page 70
  Influence of Good Character, page 73
  Family Government, page 76
  Conversation, page 79
  The Toilet or The Care of the Person, page 84
  A Young Man's Personal Appearance, page 86
  Dress, page 88
  Beauty, page 91
  Sensible Helps to Beauty, page 95
  How to Keep the Bloom and Grace of Youth, page 97
  Form and Deformity, page 98
  How to Determine a Perfect Human Figure, page 99
  The History, Mystery, Benefits and Injuries of the Corset, page 101
  Tight-Lacing, page 104
  The Care of the Hair, page 107
  How to Cure Pimples or Other Facial Eruptions, page 111
  Black-Heads and Flesh Worms, page 112
  Love, page 114
  The Power and Peculiarities of Love, page 118
  Amativeness or Connubial Love, page 122
  Love and Common Sense, page 123
  What Women Love in Men, page 126
  What Men Love in Women, page 129
  History of Marriage, page 132
  Marriage, page 134
  The Advantages of Wedlock, page 135
  The Disadvantages of Celibacy, page 138
  Old Maids, page 140
  When and Whom to Marry, page 144
  Choose Intellectually--Love Afterward, page 148
  Love-Spats, page 154
  A Broken Heart, page 159
  Former Customs and Peculiarities Among Men, page 162
  Sensible Hints in Choosing a Partner, page 165
  Safe Hints, page 170
  Marriage Securities, page 174
  Women Who Make the Best Wives, page 178
  Adaptation, Conjugal Affection, and Fatal Errors, page 181
  First Love, Desertion and Divorce, page 185
  Flirting and Its Dangers, page 190
  A Word to Maidens, page 192
  Popping the Question, page 194
  The Wedding, page 200
  Advice to Newly Married Couples, page 201
  Sexual Proprieties and Improprieties, page 206
  How to Perpetuate the Honey-Moon, page 209
  How to Be a Good Wife, page 210
  How to Be a Good Husband, page 211
  Cause of Family Troubles, page 217
  Jealousy--Its Cause and Cure, page 219
  The Improvement of Offspring, page 222
  Too Many Children, page 229
  Small Families and the Improvement of the Race, page 232
  The Generative Organs, page 234
  The Female Sexual Organs, page 235
  The Mysteries of the Formation of Life, page 238
  Conception--Its Limitations, page 240
  Prenatal Influences, page 244
  Vaginal Cleanliness, page 246
  Impotence and Sterility, page 248
  Producing Boys or Girls at Will, page 252
  Abortion or Miscarriage, page 253
  The Murder of Innocents, page 256
  The Unwelcome Child, page 258
  Health and Disease, page 263
  Preparation for Maternity, page 266
  Impregnation, page 269
  Signs and Symptoms of Pregnancy, page 270
  Diseases of Pregnancy, page 274
  Morning Sickness, page 282
  Relation of Husband and Wife During Pregnancy, page 283
  A Private Word to the Expectant Mother, page 284
  Shall Pregnant Women Work?, page 285
  Words for Young Mothers, page 286
  How to Have Beautiful Children, page 288
  Education of the Child in the Womb, page 292
  How to Calculate the Time of Expected Labor, page 295
  The Signs and Symptoms of Labor, page 297
  Special Safeguards in Confinement, page 299
  Where Did the Baby Come From?, page 303
  Child Bearing Without Pain, page 304
  Solemn Lessons for Parents, page 312
  Ten Health Rules for Babies Cut Death Rate in Two, page 314
  The Care of New-Born Infants, page 315
  Nursing, page 317
  Infantile Convulsions, page 319
  Feeding Infants, page 319
  Pains and Ills in Nursing, page 321
  Home Lessons in Nursing Sick Children, page 325
  A Table for Feeding a Baby on Modified Milk, page 329
  Nursing [Intervals Table], page 329
  Schedule for Feeding Healthy Infants During First Year [Table], page 329
  How to Keep a Baby Well, page 330
  How to Preserve the Health and Life of Your Infant During
    Hot Weather, page 332
  Infant Teething, page 336
  Home Treatments for the Diseases of Infants and Children, page 338
  Diseases of Women, page 348
  Falling of the Womb, page 350
  Menstruation, page 351
  Celebrated Prescriptions for All Diseases and How to Use Them, page 354
  How to Cure Apoplexy, Bad Breath and Quinsy, page 365
  Sensible Rules for the Nurse, page 366
  Longevity, page 367
  How to Apply and Use Hot Water in All Diseases, page 368
  Practical Rules for Bathing, page 371
  All the Different Kinds of Baths and How to Prepare Them, page 372
  Digestibility of Food, page 374
  How to Cook for the Sick, page 375
  Save the Girls, page 380
  Save the Boys, page 390
  The Inhumanities of Parents, page 396
  Chastity and Purity of Chracter, page 400
  Exciting the Passions in Children, page 404
  Puberty, Virility, and Hygenic Laws, page 406
  Our Secret Sins, page 409
  Physical and Moral Degeneracy, page 414
  Immorality, Disease, and Death, page 416
  Poisonous Literature and Bad Pictures, page 421
  Startling Sins, page 423
  The Prostitution of Men, page 427
  The Road to Shame, page 430
  The Curse of Manhood, page 433
  A Private Talk to Young Men, page 437
  Remedies for the Social Evil, page 440
  The Selfish Slaves of Doses of Disease and Death, page 441
  Object Lessons of the Effects of Alcohol and Smoking, page 445
  The Destructive Effects of Cigarette Smoking, page 449
  The Dangerous Vices, page 451
  Nocturnal Emissions, page 457
  Lost Manhood Restored, page 459
  Manhood Wrecked and Rescued, page 461
  The Curse and Consequence of Secret Diseases, page 464
  Animal Magnetism, page 470
  How to Read Character, page 473
  Twilight Sleep, page 479
  Painless Childbirth, page 479
  The Diseases of Women, page 480
  Remedies for Diseases of Women, page 483
  Alphabetical Index, page 486

       *       *       *       *       *

HE STUMBLETH NOT, BECAUSE HE SEETH THE LIGHT.

       *       *       *       *       *

KNOWLEDGE IS SAFETY.

1.

2. CRITICISM.--This work, though plain and to some extent startling, is chaste, practical and
to the point, and will be a boon and a blessing to thousands who consult its pages. The world
is full of ignorance, and the ignorant will always criticise, because they live to suffer ills,
for they know no better. New light is fast falling upon the dark corners, and the eyes of many
are being opened.

3. RESEARCHES OF SCIENCE.--The researches of science in the past few years have thrown light
on many facts relating to the physiology of man and woman, and the diseases to which they are
subject, and consequently many reformations have taken place in the treatment and prevention
of diseases peculiar to the sexes.

4. LOCK AND KEY.--Any information bearing upon the diseases of mankind should not be kept under
lock and key. The physician is frequently called upon to speak in plain language to his patients
upon some private and startling disease contracted on account of ignorance. The better plan,
however, is to so educate and enlighten old and young upon the important subjects of health,
so that the necessity to call a physician may occur less frequently.

5. But such an opinion is radically wrong; ignorance is no more the mother of purity than it
is of religion. Enlightenment can never work injustice to him who investigates.

6. AN EXAMPLE.--The men and women who study and practice medicine are not the worse, but the
better for such knowledge; so it would be to the community in general if all would be properly
instructed on the laws of health which relate to the sexes.

7. CRIME AND DEGRADATION.--Had every person a sound understanding on the relation of the sexes,
one of the most fertile sources of crime and degradation would be removed. Physicians know
too well what sad consequences are constantly occurring from a lack of proper knowledge on
these important subjects.

8. A CONSISTENT CONSIDERATION.--Let the reader of this work study its pages carefully and be
able to give safe counsel and advice to others, and remember that purity of purpose and purity
of character are the brightest jewels in the crown of immortality.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BEGINNING OF LIFE.

1. THE BEGINNING.--There is a charm in opening manhood which has commended itself to the imagination
in every age. The undefined hopes and promises of the future--the dawning strength of intellect--the
vigorous flow of passion--the very exchange of home ties and protected joys for free and manly
pleasures, give to this period an interest and excitement unfelt, perhaps, at any other.

2. THE GROWTH OF INDEPENDENCE.--Hitherto life has been to boys, as to girls, a dependent existence--a
sucker from the parent growth--a home discipline of authority and guidance and communicated
impulse. But henceforth it is a transplanted growth of its own--a new and free power of activity
in which the mainspring is no longer authority or law from without, but principle or opinion
within. The shoot which has been nourished under the shelter of the parent stem, and bent according
to its inclination, is transferred to the open world, where of its own impulse and character
it must take root, and grow into strength, or sink into weakness and vice.

3. HOME TIES.--The thought of home must excite a pang even in the first moments of freedom.
Its glad shelter--its kindly guidance--its very restraints, how dear and tender must they seem
in parting! How brightly must they shine in the retrospect as the youth turns from them to
the hardened and unfamiliar face of the world! With what a sweet sadly-cheering pathos they
must linger in the memory! And then what chance and hazard is there in his newly-gotten freedom!
What instincts of warning in its very novelty and dim inexperience! What possibilities of failure
as well as of success in the unknown future as it stretches before him!

4. VICE OR VIRTUE.--Certainly there is a grave importance as well as a pleasant charm in the
beginning of life. There is awe as well as excitement in it when rightly viewed. The possibilities
that lie in it of noble or ignoble work--of happy self-sacrifice or ruinous self-indulgence--the
capacities in the right use of which it may rise to heights of beautiful virtue, in the abuse
of which it may sink to the depths of debasing vice--make the crisis one of fear as well as
of hope, of sadness as well as of joy.

5. SUCCESS OR FAILURE.--It is wistful as well as pleasing to think of the young passing year
by year into the world, and engaging with its duties, its interests, and temptations. Of the
throng that struggle at the gates of entrance, how many may reach their anticipated goal? Carry
the mind forward a few years, and some have climbed the hills of difficulty and gained the
eminence on which they wished to stand--some, although they may not have done this, have kept
their truth unhurt, their integrity unspoiled; but others have turned back, or have perished
by the way, or fallen in weakness of will, no more to rise again; victims or their own sin.

6. WARNING.--As we place ourselves with the young at the opening gates of life, and think of
the end from the beginning, it is a deep concern more than anything else that fills us. Words
of earnest argument and warning counsel rather than of congratulation rise to our lips.

7. MISTAKES ARE OFTEN FATAL.--Begin well and the habit of doing well will become quite as easy
as the habit of doing badly. "Well begun is half ended," says the proverb: "and a good beginning
is half the battle." Many promising young men have irretrievably injured themselves by a first
false step at the commencement of life; while others of much less promising talents, have succeeded
simply by beginning well, and going onward. The good, practical beginning is to a certain extent,
a pledge, a promise, and an assurance of the ultimate prosperous issue. There is many a poor
creature, now crawling through life, miserable himself and the cause of sorrow to others, who
might have lifted up his head and prospered, if, instead of merely satisfying himself with
resolutions of well-doing, he had actually gone to work and made a good, practical beginning.

8. BEGIN AT THE RIGHT PLACE.--Too many are, however, impatient of results. They are not satisfied
to begin where their fathers did, but where they left off. They think to enjoy the fruits of
industry without working for them. They cannot wait for the results of labor and application,
but forestall them by too early indulgence.

       *       *       *       *       *

HEALTH A DUTY. Disorder entailed by disobedience to nature's dictates they regard as grievances,
not as the effects of a conduct more or less flagitious.

Purity of life and thought should be taught in the home. It is the only safeguard of the young.
Let parents wake up on this important subject.

       *       *       *       *       *

VALUE OF REPUTATION.

1. WHO SHALL ESTIMATE THE COST.--Who shall estimate the cost of a priceless reputation--that
impress which gives this human dross its currency--without which we stand despised, debased,
depreciated? Who shall repair it injured? Who can redeem it lost? Oh, well and truly does the
great philosopher of poetry esteem the world's wealth as "trash" in the comparison. Without
it gold has no value; birth, no distinction; station, no dignity; beauty, no charm; age, no
reverence; without it every treasure impoverishes, every grace deforms, every dignity degrades,
and all the arts, the decorations and accomplishments of life stand, like the beacon-blaze
upon a rock, warning the world that its approach is dangerous; that its contact is death.

2. THE WRETCH WITHOUT IT.--The wretch without it is under eternal quarantine; no friend to
greet; no home to harbor him, the voyage of his life becomes a joyless peril, and in the midst
of all ambition can achieve, or avarice amass, or rapacity plunder, he tosses on the surge,
a buoyant pestilence. But let me not degrade into selfishness of individual safety or individual
exposure this individual principle; it testifies a higher, a more ennobling origin.

3. ITS DIVINITY.--Oh, Divine, oh, delightful legacy of a spotless reputation: Rich is the inheritance
it leaves; pious the example it testifies; pure, precious and imperishable, the hope which
it inspires; can there be conceived a more atrocious injury than to filch from its possessor
this inestimable benefit to rob society of its charm, and solitude of its solace; not only
to out-law life, but attain death, converting the very grave, the refuge of the sufferer, into
the gate of infamy and of shame.

4. LOST CHARACTER.--We can conceive few crimes beyond it. He who plunders my property takes
from me that which can be repaired by time; but what period can repair a ruined reputation?
He who maims my person effects that which medicine may remedy; but what herb has sovereignty
over the wounds of slander? He who ridicules my poverty or reproaches my profession, upbraids
me with that which industry may retrieve, and integrity may purify; but what riches shall redeem
the bankrupt fame? What power shall blanch the sullied show of character? There can be no injury
more deadly. There can be no crime more cruel. It is without remedy. It is without antidote.
It is without evasion.

       *       *       *       *       *

INFLUENCE OF ASSOCIATES.

If you always live with those who are lame, you will learn to limp.--FROM THE LATIN.

If men wish to be held in esteem, they must associate with those who are estimable.--LA BRUYERE.

1. BY WHAT MEN ARE KNOWN.--An author is known by his writings, a mother by her daughter, a
fool by his words, and all men by their companions.

2. FORMATION OF A GOOD CHARACTER.--Intercourse with persons of decided virtue and excellence
is of great importance in the formation of a good character. The force of example is powerful;
we are creatures of imitation, and, by a necessary influence, our tempers and habits are very
much formed on the model of those with whom we familiarly associate. Better be alone than in
bad company. Evil communications corrupt good manners. Ill qualities are catching as well as
diseases; and the mind is at least as much, if not a great deal more, liable to infection,
than the body. Go with mean people, and you think life is mean.

3. GOOD EXAMPLE.--How natural is it for a child to look up to those around him for an example
of imitation, and how readily does he copy all that he sees done, good or bad. The importance
of a good example on which the young may exercise this powerful and active element of their
nature, is a matter of the utmost moment.

4. A TRUE MAXIM.--It is a trite, but true maxim, that "a man is known by the company he keeps."
He naturally assimilates by the force of imitation, to the habits and manners of those by whom
he is surrounded. We know persons who walk much with the lame, who have learned to walk with
a hitch or limp like their lame friends. Vice stalks in the streets unabashed, and children
copy it.

5. LIVE WITH THE CULPABLE.--Live with the culpable, and you will be very likely to die with
the criminal. Bad company is like a nail driven into a post, which after the first or second
blow, may be drawn out with little difficulty; but being once driven in up to the head, the
pinchers cannot take hold to draw it out, which can only be done by the destruction of the
wood. You may be ever so pure, you cannot associate with bad companions without falling into
bad odor.

6. SOCIETY OF THE VULGAR.--Do you love the society of the vulgar? Then you are already debased
in your sentiments. Do you seek to be with the profane? In your heart you are like them. Are
jesters and buffoons your choice friends? He who loves to laugh at folly is himself a fool.
Do you love and seek the society of the wise and good? Is this your habit? Had you rather take
the lowest seat among these than the highest seat among others? Then you have already learned
to be good. You may not make very much progress, but even a good beginning is not to be despised.

7. SINKS OF POLLUTION.--Strive for mental excellence, and strict integrity, and you never will
be found in the sinks of pollution, and on the benches of retailers and gamblers. Once habituate
yourself to a virtuous course, once secure a love of good society, and no punishment would
be greater than by accident to be obliged for half a day to associate with the low and vulgar.
Try to frequent the company of your betters.

8. PROCURE NO FRIEND IN HASTE.--Nor, if once secured, in haste abandon them. Be slow in choosing
an associate, and slower to change him; slight no man for poverty, nor esteem any one for his
wealth. Good friends should not be easily forgotten, nor used as suits of apparel, which, when
we have worn them threadbare, we cast them off, and call for new. When once you profess yourself
a friend, endeaver to be always such. He can never have any true friends that will be often
changing them.

9. HAVE THE COURAGE TO CUT THE MOST AGREEABLE ACQUAINTANCE.--Do this when you are convinced
that he lacks principle; a friend should bear with a friend's infirmities, but not with his
vices. He that does a base thing in zeal for his friend, burns the golden thread that ties
their hearts together.

       *       *       *       *       *

SELF-CONTROL.

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13. MORAL PRINCIPLE.--Many of our young men lack moral principle. They cannot look upon a beautiful
girl with a pure heart and pure thoughts. They have not manifested or practiced that self-control
which develops true manhood and brings into subordination evil thoughts, evil passions, and
evil practices. Men who have no self-control will find life a failure, both in a social and
in a business sense. The world despises an insignificant person who lacks backbone and character.
Stand upon your manhood and womanhood; honor your convictions, and dare to do right.

14. STRONG DRINK.--There is the habit of strong drink. It is only the lack of self-control
that brings men into the depths of degradation; on account of the cup, the habit of taking
drink occasionally in its milder forms--of playing with a small appetite that only needs sufficient
playing with to make you a demon or a dolt. You think you are safe; I know you are not safe,
if you drink at all; and when you get offended with the good friends that warn you of your
danger, you are a fool. I know that the grave swallows daily, by scores, drunkards, every one
of whom thought he was safe while he was forming his appetite. But this is old talk. A young
man in this age who forms the habit of drinking, or puts himself in danger of forming the habit,
is usually so weak that he does not realize the consequences.

       *       *       *       *       *

HABIT.

It is almost as difficult to make a man unlearn his Errors as his Knowledge.--COLTON.

There are habits contracted by bad example, or bad management, before we have judgment to discern
their approaches, or because the eye of Reason is laid asleep, or has not compass of view sufficient
to look around on every quarter.--TUCKER.

1. HABIT.--Our real strength in life depends upon habits formed in early life. The young man
who sows his wild oats and indulges in the social cup, is fastening chains upon himself that
never can be broken. The innocent youth by solitary practice of self-abuse will fasten upon
himself a habit which will wreck his physical constitution and bring suffering and misery and
ruin. Young man and young woman, beware of bad habits formed in early life.

2. Evil habits must be conquered, or they will conquer us and destroy our peace and happiness.

3. VICIOUS HABITS.--Vicious habits, when opposed, offer the most vigorous resistence on the
first attack. At each successive encounter this resistence grows fainter and fainter, until
finally it ceases altogether and the victory is achieved. Habit is man's best friend and worst
enemy; it can exalt him to the highest pinnacle of virtue, honor and happiness, or sink him
to the lowest depths of vice, shame and misery.

4. HONESTY, OR KNAVERY.--We may form habits of honesty, or knavery; truth, or falsehood; of
industry, or idleness; frugality, or extravagance; of patience, or impatience; self-denial,
or self-indulgence; of kindness, cruelty, politeness, rudeness, prudence, perseverance, circumspection.
In short, there, is not a virtue, nor a vice; not an act of body, nor of mind, to which we
may not be chained down by this despotic power.

5. BEGIN WELL.--It is a great point for young men to begin well; for it is the beginning of
life that that system of conduct is adopted which soon assumes the force of habit. Begin well,
and the habit of doing well will become quite easy, as easy as the habit of doing badly. Pitch
upon that course of life which is the most excellent, and habit will render it the most delightful.

       *       *       *       *       *

A GOOD NAME.

1. THE LONGING FOR A GOOD NAME.--The longing for a good name is one of those laws of nature
that were passed for the soul and written down within to urge toward a life of action, and
away from small or wicked action. So large is this passion that it is set forth in poetic thought,
as having a temple grand as that of Jupiter or Minerva, and up whose marble steps all noble
minds struggle--the temple of Fame.

2. CIVILIZATION.--Civilization is the ocean of which the millions of individuals are the rivers
and torrents. These rivers and torrents swell with those rains of money and home and fame and
happiness, and then fall and run almost dry, but the ocean of civilization has gathered up
all these waters, and holds them in sparkling beauty for all subsequent use. Civilization is
a fertile delta made by the drifting souls of men.

3. FAME.--The word "fame" never signifies simply notoriety. The meaning of the direct term
may be seen from its negation or opposite, for only the meanest of men are called infamous.
They are utterly without fame, utterly nameless; but if fame implied only notoriety, then infamous
would possess no marked significance. Fame is an undertaker that pays but little attention
to the living, but who bedizens the dead, furnishes out their funerals and follows them to
the grave.

4. LIFE-MOTIVE.--So in studying that life-motive which is called a "good name," we must ask
the large human race to tell us the high merit of this spiritual longing. We must read the
words of the sage, who said long centuries ago that "a good name was rather chosen than great
riches." Other sages have said as much. Solon said that "He that will sell his good name will
sell the State." Socrates said, "Fame is the perfume of heroic deeds." Our Shakespeare said,
"He lives in fame who died in virtue's cause."

5. INFLUENCES OF OUR AGE.--Our age is deeply influenced by the motives called property and
home and pleasure, but it is a question whether the generation in action today and the generation
on the threshold of this intense life are conscious fully of the worth of an honorable name.

6. BEAUTY OF CHARACTER.--We do not know whether with us all a good name is less sweet than
it was with our fathers, but this is painfully evident that our times do not sufficiently behold
the beauty of character--their sense does not detect quickly enough or love deeply enough this
aroma of heroic deeds.

7. SELLING OUT THEIR REPUTATION.--It is amazing what multitudes there are who are willing to
sell out their reputation, and amazing at what a low price they will make the painful exchange.
Some king remarked that he would not tell a lie for any reward less than an empire. It is not
uncommon in our world for a man to sell out all his honor and hopes for a score or a half score
of dollars.

8. PRISONS OVERFLOWING.--Our prisons are all full to overflowing of those who took no thought
of honor. They have not waited for an empire to be offered them before they would violate the
sacred rights of man, but many of them have even murdered for a cause that would not have justified
even an exchange of words.

9. INTEGRITY THE PRIDE OF THE GOVERNMENT.--If integrity were made the pride of the government,
the love of it would soon spring up among the people. If all fraudulent men should go straight
to jail, pitilessly, and if all the most rigid characters were sought out for all political
and commercial offices, there would soon come a popular honesty just as there has come a love
of reading or of art. It is with character as with any new article--the difficulty lies in
its first introduction.

10. A NEW VIRTUE.--May a new virtue come into favor, all our high rewards, those from the ballot-box,
those from employers, the rewards of society, the rewards of the press, should be offered only
to the worthy. A few years of rewarding the worthy would result in a wonderful zeal in the
young to build up, not physical property, but mental and spiritual worth.

11. BLESSING THE FAMILY GROUP.--No young man or young woman can by industry and care reach
an eminence in study or art or character, without blessing the entire family group. We have
all seen that the father and mother feel that all life's care and labor were at last perfectly
rewarded in the success of their child. But had the child been reckless or indolent, all this
domestic joy--the joy of a large group--would have been blighted forever.

12. AN HONORED CHILD.--There have been triumphs at old Rome, where victors marched along with
many a chariot, many an elephant, and many spoils of the East; and in all times money has been
lavished in the efforts of States to tell their pleasure in the name of some general; but more
numerous and wide-spread and beyond expression, by chariot or cannon or drum, have been those
triumphal hours, when some son or daughter has returned to the parental hearth beautiful in
the wreaths of some confessed excellence, bearing a good name.

13. RICH CRIMINALS.--We looked at the utter wretchedness of the men who threw away reputation,
and would rather be rich criminals in exile than be loved friends and persons at home.

14. AN EMPTY, OR AN EVIL NAME.--Young and old cannot afford to bear the burden of an empty
or an evil name. A good name is a motive of life. It is a reason for that great encampment
we call an existence. While you are building the home of to-morrow, build up also that kind
of soul that can sleep sweetly on home's pillow, and can feel that God is not near as an avenger
of wrong, but as the Father not only of the verdure and the seasons, but of you.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MOTHER'S INFLUENCE.

  A mother is a mother still,
  The holiest thing alive.
  --Coleridge.

  And all my mother came into mine eyes,
  And gave me up to tears.
  --Shakespeare.

1. HER INFLUENCE.--It is true to nature, although it be expressed in a figurative form, that
a mother is both the morning and the evening star of life. The light of her eye is always the
first to rise, and often the last to set upon man's day of trial. She wields a power more decisive
far than syllogisms in argument or courts of last appeal in authority.

2. HER LOVE.--Mother! ecstatic sound so twined round our hearts that they must cease to throb
ere we forget it; 'tis our first love; 'tis part of religion. Nature has set the mother upon
such a pinnacle that our infant eyes and arms are first uplifted to it; we cling to it in manhood;
we almost worship it in old age.

3.

4. HER CONTROLLING POWER.--The mother can take man's whole nature under her control. She becomes
what she has been called "The Divinity of Infancy." Her smile is its sunshine, her word its
mildest law, until sin and the world have steeled the heart.

5. THE LAST TIE.--The young man who has forsaken the advice and influence of his mother has
broken the last cable and severed the last tie that binds him to an honorable and upright life.
He has forsaken his best friend, and every hope for his future welfare may be abandoned, for
he is lost forever, if he is faithless to mother, he will have but little respect for wife
and children.

6. HOME TIES.--The young man or young woman who love their home and love their mother can be
safely trusted under almost any and all circumstances, and their life will not be a blank,
for they seek what is good. Their hearts will be ennobled, and God will bless them.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOME POWER.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO YOUNG WOMEN.

1.

2. BEAUTY AND STYLE are not the surest passports to womanhood--some of the noblest specimens
of womanhood that the world has ever seen have presented the plainest and most unprepossessing
appearance. A woman's worth is to be estimated by the real goodness of her heart, the greatness
of her soul, and the purity and sweetness of her character; and a woman with a kindly disposition
and well-balanced temper is both lovely and attractive, be her face ever so plain, and her
figure ever so homely; she makes the best of wives and the truest of mothers.

3.

4.

5. RIVAL THE BOYS.--We want the girls to rival the boys in all that is good, and refined, and
ennobling. We want them to rival the boys, as they well can, in learning, in understanding,
in virtues; in all noble qualities of mind and heart, but not in any of those things that have
caused them, justly or unjustly, to be described as savages. We want the girls to be gentle--not
weak, but gentle, and kind and affectionate. We want to be sure, that wherever a girl is, there
should be a sweet, subduing and harmonizing influence of purity, and truth, and love, pervading
and hallowing, from center to circumference, the entire circle in which she moves. If the boys
are savages, we want her to be their civilizer. We want her to tame them, to subdue their ferocity,
to soften their manners, and to teach them all needful lessons of order, sobriety, and meekness,
and patience and goodness.

6. KINDNESS.--Kindness is the ornament of man--it is the chief glory of woman--it is, indeed,
woman's true prerogative--her sceptre and her crown. It is the sword with which she conquers,
and the charm with which she captivates.

7. ADMIRED AND BELOVED.--Young lady, would you be admired and beloved? Would you be an ornament
to your sex, and a blessing to your race? Cultivate this heavenly virtue. Wealth may surround
you with its blandishments, and beauty, and learning, or talents, may give you admirers, but
love and kindness alone can captivate the heart. Whether you live in a cottage or a palace,
these graces can surround you with perpetual sunshine, making you, and all around you, happy.

8. INWARD GRACE.--Seek ye then, fair daughters, the possession of that inward grace, whose
essence shall permeate and vitalize the affections, adorn the countenance make mellifluous
the voice, and impart a hallowed beauty even to your motions. Not merely that you may be loved,
would I urge this, but that you may, in truth, be lovely--that loveliness which fades not with
time, nor is marred or alienated by disease, but which neither chance nor change can in any
way despoil.

9. SILKEN ENTICEMENTS OF THE STRANGER.--We urge you, gentle maiden, to beware of the silken
enticements of the stranger, until your love is confirmed by protracted acquaintance. Shun
the idler, though his coffers overflow with pelf. Avoid the irreverent--the scoffer of hallowed
things; and him who "looks upon the wine while it is red;" him too, "who hath a high look and
a proud heart," and who "privily slandereth his neighbor." Do not heed the specious prattle
about "first love," and so place, irrevocably, the seal upon your future destiny, before you
have sounded, in silence and secrecy, the deep fountains of your own heart. Wait, rather, until
your own character and that of him who would woo you, is more fully developed. Surely, if this
"first love" cannot endure a short probation, fortified by "the pleasures of hope," how can
it be expected to survive years of intimacy, scenes of trial, distracting cares, wasting sickness,
and all the homely routine of practical life? Yet it is these that constitute life, and the
love that cannot abide them is false and must die.

       *       *       *       *       *

INFLUENCE OF FEMALE CHARACTER.

1. MORAL EFFECT.--It is in its moral effect on the mind and the heart of man, that the influence
of woman is most powerful and important. In the diversity of tastes, habits, inclinations,
and pursuits of the two sexes, is found a most beneficent provision for controlling the force
and extravagance of human passion. The objects which most strongly seize and stimulate the
mind of man, rarely act at the same time and with equal power on the mind of woman. She is
naturally better, purer, and more chaste in thought and language.

2. FEMALE CHARACTER.--But the influence of female character on the virtue of men, is not seen
merely in restraining and softening the violence of human passion. To her is mainly committed
the task of pouring into the opening mind of infancy its first impressions of duty, and of
stamping on its susceptible heart the first image of its God. Who will not confess the influence
of a mother in forming the heart of a child? What man is there who can not trace the origin
of many of the best maxims of his life to the lips of her who gave him birth? How wide, how
lasting, how sacred is that part of a woman's influence.

3. VIRTUE OF A COMMUNITY.--There is yet another mode by which woman may exert a powerful influence
on the virtue of a community. It rests with her in a pre-eminent degree, to give tone and elevation
to the moral character of the age, by deciding the degree of virtue that shall be necessary
to afford a passport to her society. If all the favor of woman were given only to the good,
if it were known that the charms and attractions of beauty and wisdom, and wit, were reserved
only for the pure; if, in one word, something of a similar rigor were exerted to exclude the
profligate and abandoned of society, as is shown to those, who have fallen from virtue,--how
much would be done to re-enforce the motives to moral purity among us, and impress on the minds
of all a reverence for the sanctity and obligations of virtue.

4. THE INFLUENCE OF WOMAN ON THE MORAL SENTIMENTS.--The influence of woman on the moral sentiments
of society is intimately connected with her influence on its religious character; for religion
and a pure and elevated morality must ever stand in the relation to each other of effect and
cause. The heart of a woman is formed for the abode of sacred truth; and for the reasons alike
honorable to her character and to that of society. From the nature of humanity this must be
so, or the race would soon degenerate and moral contagion eat out the heart of society. The
purity of home is the safeguard to American manhood.

       *       *       *       *       *

PERSONAL PURITY. WORDS OF THE GREAT TEACHER.--Mark the words of the Great Teacher: "If thy
right hand or foot cause thee to fall, cut it off and cast it from thee. If thy right eye cause
thee to fall, pluck it out. It is better for thee to enter into life maimed and halt, than
having two eyes to be cast into hell-fire, where the worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched."

2. A MELANCHOLY FACT.--It is a melancholy fact in human experience, that the noblest gifts
which men possess are constantly prostituted to other purposes than those for which they are
designed. The most valuable and useful organs of the body are those which are capable of the
greatest dishonor, abuse, and corruption. What a snare the wonderful organism of the eye may
become, when used to read corrupt books, or to look upon licentious pictures, or vulgar theater
scenes, or when used to meet the fascinating gaze of the harlot! What an instrument for depraving
the whole man may be found in the matchless powers of the brain, the hand, the mouth, or the
tongue! What potent instruments may these become in accomplishing the ruin of the whole being,
for time and eternity!

3. Abstinence.--Some can testify with thankfulness that they never knew the sins of gambling,
drunkenness, fornication, or adultery. In all these cases abstinence has been, and continues
to be, liberty. Restraint is the noblest freedom. No man can affirm that self-denial ever injured
him; on the contrary, self-restraint has been liberty, strength and blessing. Solemnly ask
young men to remember this when temptation and passion strive as a floodtide to move them from
the anchorage and peace of self-restraint. Beware of the deceitful stream of temporary gratification,
whose eddying current drifts towards license, shame, disease and death. Remember how quickly
moral power declines, how rapidly the edge of the fatal maelstrom is reached, how near the
vortex, how terrible the penalty, how fearful the sentence of everlasting punishment!

4. FRANK DISCUSSION.--The time has arrived for a full and frank discussion of those things
which affect the personal purity. Thousands are suffering to-day from various weaknesses, the
causes of which they have never learned. Manly vigor is not increasing with that rapidity which
a Christian age demands. Means of dissipation are on the increase. It is high time, therefore,
that every lover of the race should call a halt, and inquire into the condition of things.
Excessive modesty on this subject is not virtue. Timidity in presenting unpleasant but important
truths has permitted untold damage in every age.

5. MAN IS A CARELESS BEING.--He is very much inclined to sinful things. He more often does
that which is wrong than that which is right, because it is easier, and, for the moment, perhaps,
more satisfying to the flesh. The Creator is often blamed for man's weaknesses and inconsistencies.
This is wrong. God did not intend that we should be mere machines, but free moral agents. We
are privileged to choose between good and evil. Hence, if we perseveringly choose the latter,
and make a miserable failure of life, we should blame only ourselves.

6. THE PULPIT.--Would that every pulpit in the land might join hands with the medical profession
and cry out with no uncertain sound against the mighty evils herein stigmatized! It would work
a revolution for which coming society could never cease to be grateful.

7. STRIVE TO ATTAIN A HIGHER LIFE.--Strive to attain unto a higher and better life. Beware
of all excesses, of whatever nature, and guard your personal purity with sacred determination.
Let every aspiration be upward, and be strong in every good, resolution. Seek the light, for
in light there is life, while in darkness there is decay and death.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO WRITE ALL KINDS OF LETTERS.

1. From the President in his cabinet to the laborer in the street; from the lady in her parlor
to the servant in her kitchen; from the millionaire to the beggar; from the emigrant to the
settler; from every country and under every combination of circumstances, letter writing in
all its forms and varieties is most important to the advancement, welfare and happiness of
the human family.

2. EDUCATION.--The art of conveying thought through the medium of written language is so valuable
and so necessary, a thorough knowledge of the practice must be desirable to every one. For
merely to write a good letter requires the exercise of much of the education and talent of
any writer.

3. A GOOD LETTER.--A good letter must be correct in every mechanical detail, finished in style,
interesting in substance, and intelligible in construction. Few there are who do not need write
them; yet a letter perfect in detail is rarer than any other specimen of composition.

4. PENMANSHIP.--It is folly to suppose that the faculty for writing a good hand is confined
to any particular persons. There is no one who can write at all, but what can write well, if
only the necessary pains are practiced. Practice makes perfect. Secure a few copy books and
write an hour each day. You will soon write a good hand.

5. WRITE PLAINLY.--Every word of even the most trifling document should be written in such
clear characters that it would be impossible to mistake it for another word, or the writer
may find himself in the position of the Eastern merchant who, writing to the Indies for five
thousand mangoes, received by the next vessel five hundred monkies, with a promise of more
in the next cargo.

6. HASTE.--Hurry is no excuse for bad writing, because any one of sense knows that everything
hurried is liable to be ruined. Dispatch may be acquired, but hurry will ruin everything. If,
however, you must write slowly to write well, then be careful not to hurry at all, for the
few moments you will gain by rapid writing will never compensate you for the disgrace of sending
an ill-written letter.

7. NEATNESS.--Neatness is also of great importance. A fair white sheet with handsomely written
words will be more welcome to any reader than a blotted, bedaubed page covered with erasures
and dirt, even if the matter in each be of equal value and interest. Erasures, blots, interlineations
always spoil the beauty of any letter.

8. BAD SPELLING.--When those who from faulty education, or forgetfulness are doubtful about
the correct spelling of any word, it is best to keep a dictionary at hand, and refer to it
upon such occasions. It is far better to spend a few moments in seeking for a doubtful word,
than to dispatch an ill-spelled letter, and the search will probably impress the spelling upon
the mind for a future occasion.

9. CARELESSNESS.--Incorrect spelling will expose the most important or interesting letter to
the severest sarcasm and ridicule. However perfect in all other respects, no epistle that is
badly spelled will be regarded as the work of an educated gentleman or lady. Carelessness will
never be considered, and to be ignorant of spelling is to expose an imperfect education at once.

10. AN EXCELLENT PRACTICE.--After writing a letter, read it over carefully, correct all the
errors and re-write it. If you desire to become a good letter writer, improve your penmanship,
improve your language and grammar, re-writing once or twice every letter that you have occasion
to write, whether on social or business subjects.

11. PUNCTUATION.--A good rule for punctuation is to punctuate where the sense requires it,
after writing a letter and reading it over carefully you will see where the punctuation marks
are required, you can readily determine where the sense requires it, so that your letter will
convey the desired meaning.

12. CORRESPONDENCE.--There is no better school or better source for self-improvement than a
pleasant correspondence between friends. It is not at all difficult to secure a good list of
correspondents if desired. The young people who take advantage of such opportunities for self-improvement
will be much more popular in the community and in society. Letter writing cultivates the habit
of study; it cultivates the mind, the heart, and stimulates self-improvement in general.

13. FOLDING.--Another bad practice with those unaccustomed to corresponding is to fold the
sheet of writing in such a fantastic manner as to cause the receiver much annoyance in opening
it. To the sender it may appear a very ingenious performance, but to the receiver it is only
a source of vexation and annoyance, and may prevent the communication receiving the attention
it would otherwise merit.

14. SIMPLE STYLE.--The style of letter writing should be simple and unaffected, not raised
on stilts and indulging in pedantic displays which are mostly regarded as cloaks of ignorance.
Repeated literary quotations, involved sentences, long-sounding words and scraps of Latin,
French and other languages are, generally speaking, out of place, and should not be indulged in.

15. THE RESULT.--A well written letter has opened the way to prosperity for many a one, has
led to many a happy marriage and constant friendship, and has secured many a good service in
time of need; for it is in some measure a photograph of the writer, and may inspire love or
hatred, regard or aversion in the reader, just as the glimpse of a portrait often determine
us, in our estimate, of the worth of the person represented. Therefore, one of the roads to
fortune runs through the ink bottle, and if we want to attain a certain end in love, friendship
or business, we must trace out the route correctly with the pen in our hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO WRITE A LOVE LETTER.

1. LOVE.--There is no greater or more profound reality than love. Why that reality should be
obscured by mere sentimentalism, with all its train of absurdities is incomprehensible. There
is no nobler possession than the love of another. There is no higher gift from one human being
to another than love. The gift and the possession are true sanctifiers of life, and should
be worn as precious jewels, without affectation and without bashfulness. For this reason there
is nothing to be ashamed of in a love letter, provided it be sincere.

2. FORFEITS.--No man need consider that he forfeits dignity if he speaks with his whole heart:
no woman need fear she forfeits her womanly attributes if she responds as her heart bids her
respond. "Perfect love casteth out fear" is as true now as when the maxim was first given to
the world.

3. TELLING THEIR LOVE.--The generality of the sex is, love to be loved; how are they to know
the fact that they are loved unless they are told? To write a sensible love letter requires
more talent than to solve, with your pen, a profound problem in philosophy. Lovers must not
then expect much from each other's epistles.

4. CONFIDENTIAL.--Ladies and gentlemen who correspond with each other should never be guilty
of exposing any of the contents of any letters written expressing confidence, attachment or
love. The man who confides in a lady and honors her with his confidence should be treated with
perfect security and respect, and those who delight in showing their confidential letters to
others are unworthy, heartless and unsafe companions.

5. RETURN OF LETTERS.--If letters were written under circumstances which no longer exist and
all confidential relations are at an end, then all letters should be promptly returned.

6. HOW TO BEGIN A LOVE LETTER.--How to begin a love letter has been no doubt the problem of
lovers and suitors of all ages and nations. Fancy the youth of Young America with lifted pen,
thinking how he shall address his beloved. Much depends upon this letter. What shall he say,
and how shall he say it, is the great question. Perseverance, however, will solve the problem
and determine results.

7. FORMS OF BEGINNING A LOVE LETTER.--Never say, "My Dearest Nellie," "My Adored Nellie," or
"My Darling Nellie," until Nellie has first called you "My Dear," or has given you to understand
that such familiar terms are permissible. As a rule a gentleman will never err if he says "Dear
Miss Nellie," and if the letters are cordially reciprocated the "Miss" may in time be omitted,
or other familiar terms used instead. In addressing a widow "Dear Madam," or, "My Dear Madam,"
will be a proper form until sufficient intimacy will justify the use of other terms.

8. RESPECT.--A lady must always be treated with respectful delicacy, and a gentleman should
never use the term "Dear" or "My Dear" under any circumstances unless he knows it is perfectly
acceptable or a long and friendly acquaintance justifies it.

9. HOW TO FINISH A LETTER.--A letter will be suggested by the remarks on how to begin one.
"Yours respectfully," "Yours truly," "Yours sincerely," "Yours affectionately," "Yours ever
affectionately," "Yours most affectionately," "Ever yours," "Ever your own," or "Yours," are
all appropriate, each depending upon the beginning of the letter. It is difficult to see any
phrase which could be added to them which would carry more meaning than they contain. People
can sign themselves "adorers" and such like, but they do so at the peril of good taste. It
is not good that men or women "worship" each other--if they succeed in preserving reciprocal
love and esteem they will have cause for great contentment.

10. PERMISSION.--No young man should ever write to a young lady any letter, formal or informal,
unless he has first sought her permission to do so.

11. SPECIAL FORMS.--We give various forms or models of love letters to be studied, not copied.
We have given no replies to the forms given, as every letter written will naturally suggest
an answer. A careful study will be a great help to many who have not enjoyed the advantages
of a literary education.

       *       *       *       *       *

FORMS OF SOCIAL LETTERS.

1.--From a Young Lady to a Clergyman Asking a Recommendation.

    Nantwich, May 18th, 1915

    Reverend and Dear Sir:

    Having seen an advertisment for a school mistress in the Daily
    Times, I have been recommended to offer myself as a candidate.
    Will you kindly favor me with a testimonial as to my
    character, ability and conduct while at Boston Normal School?
    Should you consider that I am fitted for the position,
    you would confer a great favor on me if you would interest
    yourself in my behalf.

    I remain, Reverend Sir,
    Your most obedient and humble servant,
    LAURA B. NICHOLS.

2.--Applying for a Position as a Teacher of Music.

    Scotland, Conn., January 21st, 1915

    Madam,

    Seeing your advertisement in The Clarion of to-day, I write to
    offer my services as a teacher of music in your family.

    I am a graduate of the Peabody Institute, of Baltimore, where
    I was thoroughly instructed in instrumental and vocal music.

    I refer by permission to Mrs. A.J. Davis, 1922 Walnut Street;
    Mrs. Franklin Hill, 2021 Spring Garden Street, and Mrs.
    William Murray, 1819 Spruce Street, in whose families I have
    given lessons.

    Hoping that you may see fit to employ me, I am,
    Very respectfully yours,
    NELLIE REYNOLDS.

3.--Applying for a Situation as a Cook.

    Charlton Place, September 8th, 1894.

    Madam:

    Having seen your advertisement for a cook in to-day's Times,
    I beg to offer myself for your place. I am a thorough cook. I
    can make clear soups, entrees, jellies, and all kinds of made
    dishes. I can bake, and am also used to a dairy. My wages are
    $4 per week, and I can give good reference from my last place,
    in which I lived for two years. I am thirty-three years of
    age.

    I remain, Madam,
    Yours very respectfully,
    MARY MOONEY.

4.--Recommending a School Teacher.

    Ottawa, Ill., February 10th, 1894.

    Col. Geo. H. Haight,
    President Board of Trustees, etc.

    Dear Sir: I take pleasure in recommending to your favorable
    consideration the application of Miss Hannah Alexander for the
    position of teacher in the public school at Weymouth.

    Miss Alexander is a graduate of the Davidson Seminary, and for
    the past year has taught a school in this place. My children
    have been among her pupils, and their progress has been
    entirely satisfactory to me.

    Miss Alexander is a strict disciplinarian, an excellent
    teacher, and is thoroughly competent to conduct the school for
    which she applies.

    Trusting that you may see fit to bestow upon her the
    appointment she seeks, I am.

    Yours very respectfully,
    ALICE MILLER.

5.--A Business Introduction.

    J.W. Brown, Earlville, Ill.
    Chicago, Ill., May 1st, 1915

    My Dear Sir: This will introduce to you Mr. William Channing,
    of this city, who visits Earlville on a matter of business,
    which he will explain to you in person. You can rely upon his
    statements, as he is a gentleman of high character, and should
    you be able to render him any assistance, it would be greatly
    appreciated by

    Yours truly,
    HAIGHT LARABEE.

6.--Introducing One Lady to Another.

    Dundee, Tenn., May 5th, 1894.

    Dear Mary:

    Allow me to introduce to you my ever dear friend, Miss Nellie
    Reynolds, the bearer of this letter. You have heard me speak
    of her so often that you will know at once who she is. As I
    am sure you will be mutually pleased with each other, I have
    asked her to inform you of her presence in your city. Any
    attention you may show her will be highly appreciated by

    Yours affectionately,
    LIZZIE EICHER.

7.--To a Lady, Apologizing for a Broken Engagement.

    Albany, N.Y., May 10th, 1894.

    My Dear Miss Lee:

    Permit me to explain my failure to keep my appointment with
    you this evening. I was on my way to your house, with the
    assurance of a pleasant evening, when unfortunately I was very
    unexpectedly called from home on very important business.

    I regret my disappointment, but hope that the future may
    afford us many pleasant meetings.

    Sincerely your friend,
    IRVING GOODRICH.

8.--Form of an Excuse for a Pupil.

    Thursday Morning, April 4th

    Mr. Bunnel:

    You will please excuse William for non-attendance at school
    yesterday, as I was compelled to keep him at home to attend to
    a matter of business. MRS. A. SMITH.

9.--Form of Letter Accompanying a Present.

    Louisville, July 6, 1895

    My Dearest Nelly:

    Many happy returns of the day. So fearful was I that it would
    escape your memory, that I thought I would send you this
    little trinket by way of reminder, I beg you to accept it and
    wear it for the sake of the giver. With love and best wishes.

    Believe me ever, your sincere friend,
    CAROLINE COLLINS.

10.--Returning Thanks for the Present.

    Louisville, July 6, 1894.

    Dear Mrs. Collins:

    I am very much obliged to you for the handsome bracelet
    you have sent me. How kind and thoughtful it was of you to
    remember me on my birthday. I am sure I have every cause to
    bless the day, and did I forget it, I have many kind friends
    to remind me of it. Again thanking you for your present, which
    is far too beautiful for me, and also for your kind wishes.

    Believe me, your most grateful,
    BERTHA SMITH.

11.--Congratulating a Friend Upon His Marriage.

    Menton, N.Y., May 24th, 1894.

    My Dear Everett:

    I have, to-day received the invitation to your wedding, and
    as I cannot be present at that happy event to offer my
    congratulations in person, I write.

    I am heartily glad you are going to be married, and
    congratulate you upon the wisdom of your choice. You have won
    a noble as well as a beautiful woman, and one whose love will
    make you a happy man to your life's end. May God grant that
    trouble may not come near you but should it be your lot, you
    will have a wife to whom you can look with confidence for
    comfort, and whose good sense and devotion to you will be your
    sure and unfailing support.

    That you may both be very happy, and that your happiness may
    increase with your years, is the prayer of

    Your Friend, FRANK HOWARD.

       *       *       *       *       *

LETTER WRITING.

Any extravagant flattery should be avoided, both as tending to disgust those to whom it is
addressed, as well as to degrade the writers, and to create suspicion as to their sincerity.
The sentiments should spring from the tenderness of the heart, and, when faithfully and delicately
expressed, will never be read without exciting sympathy or emotion in all hearts not absolutely
deadened by insensibility.

DECLARATION OF AFFECTION.

    Dear Nellie: Will you allow me, in a few plain and simple
    words, respectfully to express the sincere esteem and
    affection I entertain for you, and to ask whether I may
    venture to hope that these sentiments are returned? I love
    you truly and earnestly and knowing you admire frankness
    and candor in all things, I cannot think that you will take
    offense at this letter. Perhaps it is self-flattery to suppose
    I have any place in your regard. Should this be so, the error
    will carry with it its own punishment, for my happy dream will
    be over. I will try to think otherwise, however, and shall
    await your answer with hope. Trusting soon to hear from you, I
    remain, dear Nellie.

    Sincerely Yours,
    J.L. Master

    To Miss Nellie Reynolds,
    Hartford, Conn.

       *       *       *       *       *

FORMS OF LOVE LETTERS.

12.--An Ardent Declaration.

    Naperville, Ill., June 10th, 1915

    My Dearest Laura:

    I can no longer restrain myself from writing to you, dearest
    and best of girls, what I have often been on the point of
    saying to you. I love you so much that I cannot find words in
    which to express my feelings. I have loved you from the very
    first day we met, and always shall. Do you blame me because I
    write so freely? I should be unworthy of you if I did not tell
    you the whole truth. Oh, Laura, can you love me in return?
    I am sure I shall not be able to bear it if your answer is
    unfavorable. I will study your every wish if you will give
    me the right to do so. May I hope? Send just one kind word to
    your sincere friend.

    HARRY SMITH.

13.--A Lover's Good-bye Before Starting on a Journey.

    Pearl St., New York, March 11th, 1894.

    My Dearest Nellie: I am off to-morrow, and yet not altogether,
    for I leave my heart behind in your gentle keeping. You need
    not place a guard over it, however, for it is as impossible
    that it should stay away, as for a bit of steel to rush from a
    magnet. The simile is eminently correct for you, my dear girl,
    are a magnet, and my heart is as true to you as steel. I shall
    make my absence as brief as possible. Not a day, not an hour,
    not a minute, shall I waste either in going or returning. Oh,
    this business; but I wont complain, for we must have something
    for our hive besides honey--something that rhymes with it--and
    that we must have it, I must bestir myself. You will find me
    a faithful correspondent. Like the spider, I shall drop a line
    by (almost) every post; and mind, you must give me letter for
    letter. I can't give you credit. Your returns must be prompt
    and punctual.

    Passionately yours,
    LEWIS SHUMAN.

    To Miss Nellie Carter,
    No. -- Fifth Avenue, New York.

14.--From an Absent Lover.

    Chicago, Ill., Sept. 10, 1915

    My Dearest Kate: This sheet of paper, though I should cover
    it with loving words, could never tell you truly how I long
    to see you again. Time does not run on with me now at the
    same pace as with other people; the hours seem days, the days
    weeks, while I am absent from you, and I have no faith in the
    accuracy of clocks and almanacs. Ah! if there were truth in
    clairvoyance, wouldn't I be with you at this moment! I wonder
    if you are as impatient to see me as I am to fly to you?
    Sometimes it seems as if I must leave business and every
    thing else to the Fates, and take the first train to Dawson.
    However, the hours do move, though they don't appear to, and
    in a few more weeks we shall meet again. Let me hear from you
    as frequently as possible in the meantime. Tell me of your
    health, your amusements and your affections.

    Remember that every word you write will be a comfort to me.

    Unchangeably yours,
    WILLIAM MILLER.

    To Miss Kate Martin,
    Dawson, N.D.

15.--A Declaration of Love at First Sight.

    Waterford, Maine, May 8th, 1915

    Dear Miss Searles:

    Although I have been in your society but once the impression
    you have made upon me is so deep and powerful that I cannot
    forbear writing to you, in defiance of all rules of etiquette.
    Affection is sometimes of slow growth but sometimes it springs
    up in a moment. In half an hour after I was introduced to you
    my heart was no longer my own, I have not the assurance
    to suppose that I have been fortunate enough to create any
    interest in yours; but will you allow me to cultivate your
    acquaintance in the hope or being able to win your regard in
    the course of time? Petitioning for a few lines in reply.

    I remain, dear Miss Searles,
    Yours devotedly,
    E.C. NICKS.

    Miss E. Searles,
    Waterford, Maine.

16.--Proposing Marriage.

    Wednesday, October 20th, 1894

    Dearest Etta:

    The delightful hours I have passed in your society have left
    an impression on my mind that is altogether indelible,
    and cannot be effaced even by time itself. The frequent
    opportunities I have possessed, of observing the thousand acts
    of amiability and kindness which mark the daily tenor of your
    life, have ripened my feelings of affectionate regard into
    a passion at once ardent and sincere until I have at length
    associated my hopes of future happiness with the idea of you
    as a life partner, in them. Believe me, dearest Etta, this is
    no puerile fancy, but the matured results of a long and warmly
    cherished admiration of your many charms of person and mind.
    It is love--pure devoted love, and I feel confident that your
    knowledge of my character will lead you to ascribe my motives
    to their true source.

    May I then implore you to consult your own heart, and should
    this avowal of my fervent and honorable passion for you
    be crowned with your acceptance and approval, to grant me
    permission to refer the matter to your parents. Anxiously
    awaiting your answer,

    I am, dearest Etta,
    Your sincere and faithful lover,
    GEO. COURTRIGHT.

    To Miss Etta Jay,
    Malden, Ill.

17.--From a Gentleman to a Widow.

    Philadelphia, May 10th, 1915

    My Dear Mrs. Freeman:

    I am sure you are too clear-sighted not to have observed the
    profound impression which your amiable qualities, intelligence
    and personal attractions have made upon my heart, and as you
    nave not repelled my attentions nor manifested displeasure
    when I ventured to hint at the deep interest I felt in your
    welfare and happiness, I cannot help hoping that you will
    receive an explicit expression of my attachments, kindly and
    favorably. I wish it were in my power to clothe the feelings
    I entertain for you in such words as should make my pleadings
    irresistible; but, after all, what could I say, more than you
    are very dear to me, and that the most earnest desire of my
    soul is to have the privilege of calling you my wife? Do
    you, can you love me? You will not, I am certain, keep me in
    suspense, for you are too good and kind to trifle for a moment
    with sincerity like mine. Awaiting your answer,

    I remain with respectful affection,
    Ever yours,
    HENRY MURRAY.

    Mrs. Julia Freeman,
    Philadelphia.

18.--From a Lady to an Inconstant Lover.

    Dear Harry:

    It is with great reluctance that I enter upon a subject which
    has given me great pain, and upon which silence has become
    impossible if I would preserve my self-respects. You cannot
    but be aware that I have just reason for saying that you have
    much displeased me. You have apparently forgotten what is due
    to me, circumstanced as we are, thus far at least. You cannot
    suppose that I can tamely see you disregard my feelings, by
    conduct toward other ladies from which I should naturally
    have the right to expect you to abstain. I am not so vulgar a
    person as to be jealous. When there is cause to infer changed
    feelings, or unfaithfulness to promises of constancy, jealousy
    is not the remedy. What the remedy is I need not say--we both
    of us have it in our hands. I am sure you will agree with me
    that we must come to some understanding by which the future
    shall be governed. Neither you nor I can bear a divided
    allegiance. Believe me that I write more in sorrow than
    in anger. You have made me very unhappy, and perhaps
    thoughtlessly. But it will take much to reassure me of your
    unaltered regard.

    Yours truly,
    EMMA.

       *       *       *       *       *

HINTS AND HELPS ON GOOD BEHAVIOR AT ALL TIMES AND AT ALL PLACES.

1. It takes acquaintance to found a noble esteem, but politeness prepares the way. Indeed,
as ontaigne  says, Courtesy begets esteem at sight. Urbanity is half of affability, and affability
is a charm worth possessing.

2. A pleasing demeanor is often the scales by which the pagan weighs the Christian. It is not
virtue, but virtue inspires it. There are circumstances in which it takes a great and strong
soul to pass under the little yoke of courtesy, but it is a passport to a greater soul standard.

3. Matthew Arnold says, "Conduct is three-fourths of character," and Christian benignity draws
the line for conduct. A high sense of rectitude, a lowly soul, with a pure and kind heart are
elements of nobility which will work out in the life of a human being at home--everywhere.
"Private refinement makes public gentility."

4. If you would conciliate the favor of men, rule your resentment. Remember that if you permit
revenge or malice to occupy your soul, you are ruined.

5. Cultivate a happy temper; banish the blues; a cheerful saguine spirit begets cheer and hope.

6. Be trustworthy and be trustful.

7. Do not place a light estimate upon the arts of good reading and good expression; they will
yield perpetual interest.

8. Study to keep versed in world events as well as in local occurrences, but abhor gossip,
and above all scandal.

9. Banish a self-conscience spirit--the source of much awkwardness--with a constant aim to
make others happy. Remember that it is incumbent upon gentlemen and ladies alike to be neat
in habits.

