At the Panorama, Florence is in the upper circle, and Milan in the lower one. The main attraction
of the latter is the celebrated cathedral, which forms, as it were, the nucleus of the scene.
The point of view has been objected to, as the spectator is placed about mid-way up the cathedral,
and thus looks down into the streets and squares of the city; but, it should be remembered,
that he also enjoys the distant country, which he could not have done had the view been from
the area of the city; and, as we have before said, the beauty of the paysage is one of the
perfections of Mr. Burford's paintings. Its present success may be told from the Description:

"Beyond, the eye ranges to an immense distance over the rich and fertile plains of Lombardy,
Piedmont, and the Venetian States, luxuriant with every description of rural beauty, intersected
by rivers and lakes, and thickly studded with towns and villages, with their attendant gardens,
groves, and vineyards. The Northern horizon, from East to West, is bounded by the vast chain
of the Alps, which form a magnificent semicircle at from eighty to one hundred and twenty miles
distant, Monte Rosa, Monte Cenis, Monte St. Gothard, the Simplon, &c. covered with eternal
snow, being conspicuous from their towering height; towards the South the view is bounded by
the Apennines, extending across the peninsula from the Mediterranean to the Adriatic; and on
the South-west, the Piedmontese hills, in the neighbourhood of Turin, appear a faint purple
line on the horizon, so small as to be scarcely visible; the purity of the atmosphere enables
the eye to discern the most distant objects with accuracy, and the brilliant sunshine gives
inconceivable splendour to every part of the scene; each antique spire and curiously-wrought
tower sparkles brightly in its beams, whilst the dark foliage of fine trees, even in the heart
of the city, relieves the eye, and produces a beautiful and pleasing effect."

The cathedral will be recollected as the finest specimen extant of pointed Gothic architecture,
and termed by the Milanese, the eighth wonder of the world. It is entirely of white marble,
and its highest point four hundred feet from the base. A better idea of its minute as well
as vast beauty will be afforded by the reader turning to our engraving of the exterior in vol.
xiv. of The Mirror. It is successfully painted in the Panorama, although it has not the dazzling
whiteness that a stranger might expect; and, on it are those beautiful tinges which are thought
to be shed by the atmosphere upon buildings of any considerable age. This effect is visible
ever in the fine climate of Italy: it is ingeniously referred to by Sir Humphry Davy in his
last work[6] to the chemical agency of water. He speaks, however, rather of the decay produced
by water, of which tinge is but the first stage. The latter is very pleasing, and, about two
years since, the fine portico of the Colosseum, in the Regent's Park, was artificially coloured
to produce this effect of time, as it has been poetically considered.

    [6] "Consolations in Travel, or the Last Days of a Philosopher."
    1830.

The City of Milan is not particularly interesting, though to an untravelled beholder, it has
points of attraction. He may probably be struck with the vast extent of some of the structures
when compared with the puny buildings of our own country and times; and the space occupied
by the palaces will but remind him of the mistaken magnificence of Buckingham, or the gloomy
grandeur of St. James's. Again, the plastered and fancifully coloured fronts of the dwelling-houses,
their gay draperies, &c. but ill-assort with the heavy red-brick exteriors of our metropolis;
although this contrast is to be sought elsewhere than in externals. Mr. Burford's summary,
or characteristics of the city may be quoted:

"The form of the city is nearly circular, about ten miles in circumference, although perhaps
the thickly built and more densely populated part may be confined to an area of half that size.
There are several large and handsome squares, but the streets, with very few exceptions, are
neither wide nor regular; the pavement is formed like that of Paris, of small, sharp pebbles,
with occasionally a narrow footway on each side, and the addition of two (or in the wider streets
four) strips of flat stones in the centre, forming a sort of railway, on which the carriage
wheels run with great smoothness and very little noise. The churches, hospitals, establishments
for the poor, and other public institutions, are numerous, and display all the richness and
magnificence of Italian architecture, and are at the same time endowed on a most liberal scale;
the ancient palaces of the nobles, vast and rude, bear stamp of the importance of the city
in the middle ages, when they served as domestic fortresses and lodged well-appointed and numerous
retinues; and although they cannot at present vie with those of Rome or Genoa, yet they display
considerable architectural luxury, and contain fine collections of works of art; attached to
many are large and well-stocked gardens, which add much to the beauty of the city. Very little
regard is paid to regularity of appearance in the general buildings; they vary in height from
two to five stories, and are built of brick, or granite from the Lago Maggiori, plastered,
coloured, or ornamented, according to the taste of the owner; many are still without the luxury
of glass in the windows; the shops are numerous and well furnished; their entrances, as well
as those of the coffee-houses, are frequently defended only by a coloured drapery, which, with
the silk tapestry hung at the church doors, and occasionally from the balconies, &c., has a
gay and pleasing effect; indeed the whole appearance of the city is cheerful and flourishing."

The groupes and incidents in the streets will amuse the spectator. There is Policinel--the
eternal Punch--with his audience, a short distance from the Cathedral. All over Europe, the
most enlightened portion of the world, is this little Motley to be seen frolicking with flashes
of satire; the motto for his proscenium should be hic et ubique.

One of the beauties of this Panorama is the masterly effect of the Italian sky. There are fewer
cloudless days in Italy than the stranger may imagine, but Mr. Burford was fortunate in his season.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHIT CHAT OF THE DAY.

There is a good share of pleasant patter in the following abridged from the Metropolitan.

"Every one says that I am an odd person; I presume I am, and so is every one else taken singly.
I can prove that by Cocker. One and one make two--two is even, one is odd, I am but one. There's
logic for you. I am also a rambler by temperament. I ramble my person at my own free will,
and my mind rambles quite indifferent as to its intimate connexion with the former. I look
at the stars, and my thoughts are of women--I look at the earth, and my thoughts run upon heaven--I
frequent the opera, and moralize upon the world and its vanities--I sit in my pew at church,
and my thoughts ramble every where in spite of my endeavours and those of the parson to boot--I
live in town all the year, because it's the fashion to be here in the season, and because I
prefer London most when I can walk about where there is nobody to interrupt me. In the season,
I am allowed to walk into every body's house, very often get an invite to fill up an odd corner,
and as there generally is an odd corner at every party, and I do not stand at a short notice,
I eat more good dinners than most people. I am not a fool, and yet not too clever, so that
poised in that happy medium, I hear all, see all, know a great deal of what is going on, and
hold my tongue. When people inhabit their town houses, I spend the whole day going from one
to the other. I consider a house the only safe part of the metropolis. Were I to frequent the
street during the season, I am so apt to fall into a brown study, that I'm certain to be jostled
until I am black and blue--I have found myself calculating an arithmetical problem at a crossing,
and have not been aware of my danger until a pair of greys sixteen hands high in full trot
have snorted in my face--I am an idler by profession, live at a club, sleep at chambers, and
have just sufficient means to pay my way and indulge my disposition. But I've not stated why
I particularly like town when it is empty. It is because I feel relieved of all the fashionable
et ceteras. By the time the season is over I am tired of dinners, of wine, of the opera, the
eternal announcement of visiters at parties and balls, the music, the exotics, the suppers,
the rattling of carriages, and the rattling of tongues. I rejoice at last to find London en
deshabille--I can then do as I please without any fear of losing my character as a fashionable
man. I consider that I can in London extract more amusement in a given quantity of ground than
at any other place. A street will occupy me for a whole day: with an indifferent coat, and
nothing but silver in my waistcoat pocket, I stop at every shop-window and examine every thing.
Should it so happen that the prices are affixed to every article displayed, I make it a rule
to read every one of them. I know therefore when Urling's lace is remarkably cheap, the value
of most articles of millinery, the relative demands for boots, shoes, and hats, and prices
of 'reach-me-downs' at a ready-made warehouse. At a pawn-broker's shop-window I have passed
two or three hours very agreeably in ascertaining the sums at which every variety of second-hand
goods are 'remarkably cheap,' from a large folio Bible as divinity, flutes and flageolets as
music, pictures and china as taste, gold and silver articles as luxury, wedding rings as happiness,
and duelling pistols as death. I could not of course indulge in these peripatetic fancies during
the season without losing caste, but there is a season for all things."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Talking of pictures, by the way, what a marvellous falling off is there in Wilkie!--a misfortune
arising, as I take it, from a struggle after novelty of style. There is a portrait of the King
by him in Somerset House Exhibition, like nothing on earth but a White Lion on its hinder legs,
and there was one a year or two since of George the Fourth in a Highland dress--a powerful
representation of Lady Charlotte Bury, dressed for Norval. Look at that gem of art, his Blind
Fiddler, now in the National Gallery, or at his Waterloo Gazette, or at the Rent Day, and compare
any one of them with the senseless stuff he now produces, and grieve. His John Knox--ill placed
for effect, as relates to its height from the ground, I admit; but look at that--flat as a
teaboard--neither depth nor brilliancy. Knox himself strongly resembling in attitude the dragon
weathercock on Bow steeple painted black. Has Wilkie become thus demented in compliment to
Turner, the Prince of Orange (colour) of artists? Never did man suffer so severely under a
yellow fever, and yet live so long. I dare say it is extremely bad taste to object to his efforts;
but I am foolish enough to think that one of the chief ends of art is to imitate nature as
closely as possible. Look, for instance, at Copley Fielding's splendid drawing in the Water
Colour Exhibition, of vessels in a gale off Calshot; and certainly I have never yet seen any
thing either animal or vegetable at all like the men, women, trees, grass, mountains, which
appear in Mr. Turner's works.

"This is of course an individual opinion, but I think it may be expressed without any fear
of incurring a charge of ill-nature, when one thing is recollected. Copley Fielding cannot
be a bad artist; Prout cannot be a bad artist; Nash cannot be a bad artist; De Vint, Stanfield,
Reinagle, Calcott, none of these can be called bad artists; yet not one of these gentlemen,
eminent as they are, produce any thing like Turner's drawings. Now if they are all wrong, Mr.
Turner is quite right; but it is utterly impossible he should be so, if they are.

"Everybody knows the story of the sign-painter in the country, who could paint nothing but
a red lion; and accordingly he advised every inn-keeper and alehouse-keeper in the neighbouring
village, who applied to him, to have the sign of the Red Lion. This did very well for a considerable
time, and the painter practised so successfully that not a hamlet or town, for ten miles round,
that had not its red lion; until at length a new-comer, who, like Daniel of old, thought there
were quite as many lions round him as were wanted, suggested to the artist that he should like
to have a swan for the sign of his small concern. In vain the painter protested, Boniface was
resolute. 'Well,' said the rural Apelles, 'if you will have a swan you must, but you may rely
upon it when it is finished, it will be so like a red lion, you would not know the difference.'
So Turner, if he were to paint a blackbird, it would be so like a canary when it was finished,
you would not know one from the other.

"Among other sights, I was induced to go and visit the 'Fleas,' last Saturday. Never was there
such an imposition; instead of being harnessed, they were tied by the hind legs, and the combatants,
poor wretches! were pinched by the tails in tweezers, and of course moved their legs in their
agony. Well, thought I, as I went out, I have been in Spain, and Portugal, and Italy, and have
passed many a restless night, but hang me if ever I was so flea bitten in my life as I have
been to day; and I thought of my shilling and the old proverb.

"There is a picture of Lord Mulgrave in the Somerset House exhibition, very like, painted by
Briggs. The best portrait there, is Pickersgill's Lord Hill; as a likeness, it is identity;
and I admire it the more, from the total absence of what the painters call accessories. It
is simple, and though honourably decorated, is unadorned by what is considered 'groscape' drapery;
and yet Mr. Pickersgill was at one time an unqualified admirer of cloaks; every hawbuck of
a fellow who sat to him, was wrapped up in a cloak: this he has conquered, and we rejoice at
it. The portrait of Lady Coote is a good picture; it is a pity that her ladyship had not sat
a few years earlier; but that is no affair of the painter. A picture of Lady Londonderry, in
the costume of Queen Elizabeth, by a Frenchman is amazingly like. There is a story about this
dress which only proves the advantages of making experiments before any grand display. The
petticoat of the Virgin Queen, as personated by her ladyship, was so thickly covered with diamonds,
that the substratum of material could scarcely be seen; and nothing could be more splendid
than the effect; but the diamonds glittered all round the dress, behind and before, and at
the side; and so long as her ladyship paraded the magnificent suite of her apartments, all
was well, and all shone brilliantly; but lo and behold, when her ladyship threw herself gracefully
on her mimic throne, she found that she might as well be sitting in her robe de chambre on
a pebbly pavement, or a heap of flints just prepared for Macadamization. Stones, though precious,
are still stones, and the jump the Marchioness gave when she first felt the full effect of
her jewels, is described as something prodigious. So handsome a person, however, might easily
dispense with such ornaments. A queen of hearts may always look down upon a mere queen of diamonds.

"And what are we to say of other representations? What a sensation (at any other period how
much greater would it have been!) Mr. Sheridan Knowles' Hunchback has made: why Mr. Sheridan
Knowles made his hero a Hunchback I cannot imagine. The play is an admirable play; and what
is as strange a part of the affair as any, is the acting of the author. To say it is finished,
or fine, would be to talk nonsense; but it is plain, straightforward, common-scene acting,
which very much surprised us, more especially from an author, still more from an Irish author;
and more still from an author, who in private life is a perfect enthusiast, and a fine phrenzied-eye
orator. Fanny Kemble never appeared to greater advantage in public--in private, her charming
conduct with regard to her brother, the young soldier, speaks volumes for her. They say she
is going to marry a son of Keppell Craven's, Lord Craven's uncle. They met first, I believe,
at the acting of Lord Leveson Gower's play of Hernani, at Bridgewater House, when Mr. Craven
reaped much histrionic fame as an amateur. Of one thing we are quite sure, Miss Kemble will
act well wherever she may be placed in the world.

"One of the best conundrums I have heard for a long time, is attributed to that excellent and
agreeable fellow, Yates, who is amongst those who do credit to the stage. Whether it is his
own, or not, is a question to rest upon his veracity. It is this--'When does an alderman look
like a ghost?' Answer. 'When he's a gobbling.' This is surely a jeu d'esprit. By the way, Rogers
begins to whistle now; not in fear, or harmony, or for amusement, but I am afraid from the
effects produced by advanced age. I regret this--he is an excellent person, and a gentlemanly
poet; and I never shall forget the patience with which he bore a most unintentional misquotation,
made from his works, and in his presence, by a man of the name of Barton, who wanted to compliment
him, by recollecting his verses. The story that he quoted was Rogers' pretty song of

  "Dear is my little native vale,
    The ring-dove builds and warbles there,
  Close by my cot she tells her tale,
    To every passing villager."

"Mr. Barton--who he was I never found out--having eulogized this little effusion with a superhuman
ecstacy, repeated it right to a line--but not to a word.

"Not a muscle moved in Mr. Rogers' pale and placid countenance, you would hardly have thought
he lived; but turning to Luttrell, whose mouth twisted and whose eye rolled at the fun of the
mistake, he simply whispered, 'Non tali auxilio, &c.' Barton survived it, and is still alive
and merry.

"I perceive that there have been changes at the Admiralty. Dyer, Darch, and Riley superannuated.
Hay takes Darch's place as reading clerk. This is right. Hay is a gentleman, and a man of business.
Met Sir Francis--which Sir Francis, you would say, for there are two who frequent the Admiralty,
the obtuse and the clever. I mean the clever. 'Well, Frank, how goes on the Vernon, and how
did she go off the other day? No want of water, I presume.' 'No; thank heaven for that! Why,
she went off beautifully, but the lubberly mateys contrived to get her foul of the hulk, and
Lord Vernon came out of the conflict minus a leg and an arm.'--'Who had you there?' 'Upon my
honour I hardly know. I was so busy paying my devoirs to Lady Graham; she looked for all the
world like a mermaid, as she stood by the bows and christened the vessel. Her hair hung down
as straight as the lower rigging when first put over the mast heads.'--'I wish I had such a
beautiful mermaid for a wife,' replied H----, who had joined and listened to our conversation.
'What a pretty creature is that Miss E----; she looked as fresh as if she had just come out
of a shower bath.' 'Well, so she had.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

"I went to the Opera on Tuesday to hear Mariani. She is splendid--confounded plain, but that's
no consequence. That Grisi screams rather too much, although she acts well, and has a pretty
person, if it was washed. I believe Brugnoli's toes are made of cast iron. Toe K--g, could
make no impression upon them. You know how K--g obtained that name. He is a little puffy fellow,
who goes about town, making acquaintance with every body--is endured at watering places for
his poodle qualities of 'fetch and carry:' he is very anxious to become acquainted with noblemen,
and his plan is to sidle up and tread very lightly upon an aristocratical toe--then an immediate
apology, and the apology is followed also with the wind and weather, and the leading topic
of the day, a knowledge of his lordship's friends or relations, and a good morning. The next
day when they meet, a polite bow from Mr. K--g, and if an opportunity offers he enters into
conversation, and thus establishes his acquaintance.

"Such is his EXTREME method of introducing himself, which deserves credit for its ingenuity
and exclusiveness. I once knew a man who had only one story, and that was about a gun. His
difficulty was to introduce this story, and he at last succeeded, like K--g, by the use of
his foot. When sitting after dinner he would stamp under the table and create a hollow sound.
Then, God bless me! what's that--a gun? By the by, talking about guns--and then came his story."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MESSIAH.

By Robert Montgomery.

The subsequent passages exhibit many of the beauties and few of the blemishes of Mr. Montgomery's
new poem:

THE WILDERNESS.

  Oh, when hath mind conceived
  Magnificence beyond a midnight there,
  When Israel camp'd, and o'er her tented host
  The moonlight lay?--On yonder palmy mount,
  Lo! sleeping myriads in the dewy hush
  Of night repose; around in squared array,
  The camps are set; and in the midst, apart,
  The curtain'd shrine, where mystically dwells
  Jehovah's presence!--through the soundless air
  A cloudy pillar, robed in burning light,
  Appears:--concenter'd as one mighty heart,
  A million lie, in mutest slumber bound.
  Or, panting like the ocean, when a dream
  Of storm awakes her:--Heaven and Earth are still;
  In radiant loveliness the stars pursue
  Their pilgrimage, while moonlight's wizard hand
  Throws beauty, like a spectre light, on all.
  At Judah's tent the lion-banner stands
  Unfolded, and the pacing sentinels,--
  What awe pervades them, when the dusky groves,
  The rocks Titanian, by the moonshine made
  Unearthly, or yon mountains vast, they view!
  But soon as morning bids the sky exult,
  As earth from nothing, so that countless host
  From slumber and from silence will awake
  To mighty being! while the forest-birds
  Rush into song, the matin breezes play,
  And streamlets flash where prying sunbeams fall:
  Like clouds in lustre, banners will unroll!
  The trumpet shout, the warlike tramp resound,
  And hymns of valour from the marching tribes
  Ascend to gratulate the risen morn.

PATRIARCHAL TIMES.

  A vision of that unforgotten prime,
  The patriarchal age, when Earth was young,
  A while oh: let it linger!--oh the soul
  It breaketh, like a lovely burst of spring
  Upon the gaze of captives, when the clouds
  Again are floating over freedom's head!--
  Though Sin had witherd with a charnel breath
  Creation's morning bloom, there still remain'd
  Elysian hues of that Adamic scene,
  When the Sun gloried o'er a sinless world,
  And with each ray produced a flower!--From dells
  Untrodden, hark! the breezy carol comes
  Upwafted, with the chant of radiant birds.--
  What meadows, bathed in greenest light, and woods
  Gigantic, towering from the skiey hills,
  And od'rous trees in prodigal array,
  With all the elements divinely calm--
  Our fancy pictures on the infant globe!
  And ah! how godlike, with imperial brow
  Benignly grave, yon patriarchal forms
  Tread the free earth, and eye the naked heavens!
  In Nature's stamp of unassisted grace
  Each limb is moulded; simple as the mind
  The vest they wear; and not a hand but works,
  Or tills the ground with honourable toil:
  By youth revered, their sons around them grow
  And flourish; monarch of his past'ral tribe,
  A patriarch's throne is each devoted heart!
  And when he slumbers on the tented plain
  Beneath the vigil stars, a living wall
  Is round him, in the might of love's defence:
  For he is worthy--sacrifice and song
  By him are ruled; and oft at shut of flowers,
  When queenly virgins in the sunset go
  To carry water from the crystal wells,
  In beautiful content,--beneath a tree
  Whose shadows hung o'er many a hallow'd sire,
  He sits; recording how creation rose
  From nothing, of the Word almighty born;
  How Man had fallen, and where Eden boughs
  Had waved their beauty on the breeze of morn;
  Or, how the angels still at twilight love
  To visit earth with errands from the sky.

ISAIAH.

  Terrific bard! and mighty--in thy strain
  A torrent of inspiring passion sounds--
  Whether for cities by the Almighty cursed,
  Thy wail arose--or, on enormous crimes
  That darken'd heav'n with supernat'ral gloom,
  Thy flash of indignation fell, alike
  The feelings quiver when thy voice awakes!--
  Borne in the whirlwind of a dreadful song,
  The spirit travels round the destin'd globe,
  While shadows, cast from solemn years to come,
  Fall round us, and we feel a God is nigh!

  But when a gladness from thy music flows,
  Creation brightens!--glory paints the sky,
  The Sun hath got an everlasting smile,
  And Earth in temper'd for immortal spring--
  The lion smoothes his ruffled mane, the lamb
  And wolf together feed, and by the den
  Of serpents, see! the rosy infant play.

THE SAVIOUR.

  As o'er the grandeur of unclouded heaven
  Our vision travels with a free delight,
  As though the boundless and the pure were made
  For speculation--so the tow'ring mind,
  By inward oracle inspired and taught,
  The lofty and the excellent in mind adores.
  Then, Saviour! what a paragon art Thou
  Of all that Wisdom in her hope creates--
  A model for the universe--Though God
  Be round us, by the shadow of His might
  For aye reflected, and with plastic hand
  Prints on the earth the character of things--
  Yet He Himself,--how awfully retired
  Depth within depth, unutterably deep!
  His glory brighter than the brightest thought
  Can picture, holier than our holiest awe
  Can worship,--imaged only in I AM!
  But Thou--apparell'd in a robe of true
  Mortality; meek sharer of our low
  Estate, in all except compliant sin;
  To Thee a comprehending worship pays
  Perennial sacrifice of life and soul,
  By love enkindled;--Thou hast lived and breathed;
  Our wants and woes partaken--all that charms
  Or sanctifies, to Thine unspotted truth
  May plead for sanction--virtue but reflects
  Thine image! wisdom is a voice attuned
  To consonance with Thine--and all that yields
  To thought a pureness, or to life a peace,
  From Thee descends--whose spirit-ruling sway,
  Invisible as thought, around us brings
  A balm almighty for affliction's hour--
  Once felt, in all the fullness of Thy grace
  The living essence of the living soul,--
  And there is faith--a firm-set, glorious faith,
  Eternity cannot uproot, or change--
  Oh, then the second birth of soul begins,
  That purifies the base, the dark illumes,
  And binds our being with a holy spell,
  Whereby each function, faculty, and thought
  Surrenders meekly to the central guide
  Of hope and action, by a God empower'd.

THE CRUCIFIXION.

  A God with all his glory laid aside,
  Behold Him bleeding,--on his awful brow
  The mingled sorrows of a world repose--
  "'Tis FINISH'D,"--at those words creation throbs,
  Round Hell's dark universe the echo rolls--
  All Nature is unthroned--and mountains quake
  Like human being when the death-pang comes--
  The sun has wither'd from the frighted air,
  And with a tomb-burst, hark, the dead arise
  And gaze upon the living, as they glide
  With soundless motion through the city's gloom,
  Most awfully,--the world's Redeemer dies.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPAIN AND PORTUGAL.

We quote the following from the Cabinet Cyclopaedia history of these countries:

The Penitential Habit.

"From the fifth century," says Masden, "or from the beginning of the sixth, the custom prevailed
in Spain of the infirm, when so heavily afflicted as to be in danger of death, piously assuming
the tonsure and the penitential habit, and engaging to continue both through life, if God raised
them up. As the use of this penance became common enough to throw discredit on the piety of
all who did not thus undertake it, if the sick or dying man was unable to demand the habit,
his relations or friends could invest him with it, and his obligation to a penitential life
thenceforward was as great as if that obligation had been imposed, not by others, but at his
own request, since, as he was charitably supposed to be thus piously inclined, he must of necessity
wish to become a penitent. This continued in force until king Chindaswind, impressed with the
abuses to which it had given rise, decreed that in such cases the obligation imposed by others
should be void unless the patient should afterwards ratify it when in a sound state of mind.
Penitents of this class might remain in their own houses, without seclusion within the walls
of a monastery; but they were for ever compelled to wear the habit and shaven crown, to shun
business and diversions, to lead exemplary and chaste lives: if single, they could not marry;
if married, they could not enjoy the privileges of the state: hence, though they inhabited
not the cloister, they were of the religious order, and consecrated to God."

"This penance was not merely assumed by such as were anxious to make atonement for some heavy
sin; it was often voluntarily undertaken by individuals whose lives had been blameless, and
who were anxious by this work of supererogation to increase their stock of merits. If the penitent
died of his disease, the intention of his sacrifice was believed to be availing in the sight
of Heaven; if he recovered, he became a monk. No less a doom than excommunication, and a rigorous
penitential seclusion during life within the walls of a monastery, were hurled against such
as married, or used their conjugal privilege, or laid down the habit. If, however, the married
penitents were very young at the time he or she entered on the monastic obligation, in case
of recovery the bishop had power to permit the use of matrimony a certain number of years.
This was called an indulgence or dispensation, the debitum conjugale being totally annihilated
by the obligations of the new state.

"This custom is not yet extinct in Spain, though, like many others of a similar kind, its observance
is daily weakening since the period of the French revolution, and of the increased intercourse
between the two nations. Many of the greatest names in the Spanish annals voluntarily assumed
the profession, and thereby ceased to be laymen. Among these was the author of Don Quixote."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

CONCEALED SORROW.

(From the portfolio of a Correspondent.)

There oft times dwells within the human breast, a grievous and a bitter sorrow; a sorrow once
formed--seldom, if ever, entirely eradicated. Such sorrow hath borne down to the grave many
a noble, though ill-fated, heart; there to seal up the remembrance of the degraded, the broken,
feelings of its once fine nature, and for ever crush the spirit of its love. It is a sorrow
that cometh not as the whirlwind's rushing blast, in the fury of the tempest, or as the lion's
roar; but rather as the soft, still moan of the desert's poisoned breeze, or as the silent
gnawing of a cankering worm: so comes it preying on our heart's fondest hopes till they gradually
sink to ruin and oblivion. It is a grief that mortal eyes cannot see; it is only keenly felt;
its tears are the wasting away of health, and its lamentation is the low beating of a sinking
pulse. The loudest cry of its woe is but the dull, bitter sigh of its lonely unhappiness, engendered
by the deep misery of the secret depression of its mental complaining, making the heart like
a faded flower in a gloomy wilderness; like a blighted tree in a sultry waste. Weep! weep!
and sigh from thy very soul; yet thy sorrows will not end; their root will still remain to
spring and spread afresh. Unhappy they that such sorrows have! alas! for them! R.N.

Pleasure Gardens.--Has it never occurred to any nurseryman that his garden might be made delightful
and profitable promenades for the public, at a low charge for admission? In the neighbourhood
of Philadelphia, we learn from a communication to the Gardeners' Magazine, there is a class
of gardens very distinct from any in this country; those of plant-growers, who to a small nursery,
and green and hot-houses, add the appendage of a tavern. The two principal ones of this description
are kept by Mr. Arran, and M. d'Arras: the first has a very good museum in his garden; and
the latter possesses a beautiful collection of orange and lemon trees, very large, but trimmed
after the French fashion. These places are the resort of many of the citizens; Philadelphia
having no park, or national gardens, for the purpose of recreation.

American Prejudice.--Everything British creates a spirit of rivalry among the vulgar Americans.
A great number of the workmen's anecdotes are directed against the aristocratical bearing of
Englishmen: nothing gives greater delight to the rustics than to hear of the Honourable D.S.
or Lord John P. having been the last served, or badly served, at an inn for being surly to
the waiters, &c.

Cheap Fruit.--In Philadelphia, peaches are 25 cents, (about a shilling) per bushel; pine-apples
from the West Indies from 5 to 15 cents. (2d. to 6d.) each, and water melons cheaper.

Newtown Pippin.--Near New York, at the residence of Mrs. Col. More, is the original tree of
the celebrated apple called the Newtown pippin. It stands in the centre of an old orchard;
the tree divides itself about 2-1/2 or 3 feet from the ground; but, although the estate has
been in the possession of Colonel More's family for two centuries, they are unable to give
any account of its origin; consequently the tree must be of very old standing.

Hyde Park on the Hudson River.--Our Hyde Park on this side the water, can bear no comparison
with its namesake on the other side of the Atlantic, The latter is extensive; the rides numerous;
and the variety of delightful distant views embrace every kind of scenery. The pleasure-grounds
are laid out on just principles, and in a most judicious manner; there is an excellent range
of hot-houses, with a collection of rare plants; remarkable for their variety, their cleanliness,
and their handsome growth. The construction and arrangement of the farm buildings deserve the
strongest praise; but, in fact, everything connected with Hyde Park is performed in a manner
unparalleled in America. The proprietor of Hyde Park is Dr. David Hosack, a gentleman well
known in the literary and scientific world--the Sir Joseph Banks of America.

Modern Cincinnatus.--Near Bordentown, in the state of New Jersey is the seat of the Count de
Survilliers, elder brother of Napoleon Buonaparte, and formerly King of Spain. He has effected
great improvements on this estate, and is now actively employed in others. It is most gratifying
to see this amiable nobleman withdrawing himself from the busy scene of politics into retirement,
and expending his princely fortune in rural improvements.

                      P.T.W.

Greenwich Hospital.--The foundation-stone of this magnificent building was laid June 30, 1696,
by John Evelyn (the treasurer), with a select committee of the commissioners, and Sir Christopher
Wren, the architect, precisely at five in the evening, after they had dined together! Flamstead,
the royal astronomer, observing the punctual time by instruments. The time is not unworthy
of remark. The King (Charles II.) subscribed 2,000l.; the Archbishop of Canterbury, Lord Keeper
Sommers, Dukes of Leeds, Pembroke, Devonshire, Shrewsbury, and Earls of Dorset and Portland,
500l. each; with others amounting to upwards of 9,000l. According to a note by the Treasurer,
four months after the foundation, the work done amounted to upwards of 5,000l. towards which
the treasurer had received only 800l., there being among the defaulters the king's 2,000l.,
paid by exchequer tallies on the post-office, "which," says he, "nobody will take at 30 per
cent discount:" so that we see the suspension of great works for want of friends was never
uncommon; though this was a "season of debt and disgrace" in England. The honourable Board
pitied the youth, but disregarded his petition. "Fie, fie, on't," said the king, shaking his
head, "but let me see you again next levee-day." The lieutenant did not fail to appear at the
place of assignation, when he received from the immediate hands of royalty, five hundred pounds,
smart money, and a pension of two hundred a-year.