I was in company some time since with George Colman, "the younger," as the old fellow still
styles himself. It was shortly after the death of Mrs. ----, the wife of a popular actor, and
at that time an unpopular manager. Some one at table observed that, "Mr. ---- had suffered
a loss in the death of his wife, which he would not soon be able to make up."--"I don't know
how that may be," replied George, drily, "but to tell you the truth, I don't think he has quarrelled
with his loss yet."--Monthly Mag.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHERIDAN.

Bob Mitchell, one of Sheridan's intimate friends, and once in great prosperity, became--like
a great many other people, Sheridan's creditor--in fact Sheridan owed Bob nearly three thousand
pounds--this circumstance amongst others contributed so very much to reduce Bob's finances,
that he was driven to great straits, and in the course of his uncomfortable wanderings he called
upon Sheridan; the conversation turned upon his financial difficulties, but not upon the principal
cause of them, which was Sheridan's debt; but which of course, as an able tactician, he contrived
to keep out of the discussion; at last, Bob, in a sort of agony, exclaimed--"I have not a guinea
left, and by heaven I don't know where to get one." Sheridan jumped up, and thrusting a piece
of gold into his hand, exclaimed with tears in his eyes--"It never shall be said that Bob Mitchell
wanted a guinea while his friend Sheridan had one to give him."--Sharpe's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

LINES

On the window of Thorny Down Inn, about seven miles from Blandford, on the Salisbury road.

  Death, reader, pallid death!! with woe or bliss
  Will shortly be thy lot. Think then, my friend,
  Ere yet it be too late--what are thy hopes
  And what thy anxious fears--when the thin veil
  That keeps thy soul from seeing Israel's GOD
  Shall drop.    (Signed) [Greek: parepidemos].
                          RURIS.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Lord Ellenborough was Lord Chief Justice, a labouring bricklayer was called as a witness;
when he came up to be sworn his lordship said to him--

"Really, witness, when you have to appear before this court, it is your bounden duty to be
more clean and decent in your appearance."

"Upon my life," said the witness, "if your lordship comes to that, I'm thinking I'm every bit
as well dressed as your lordship."

"How do you mean, sir," said his lordship, angrily.

"Why, faith," said the labourer, "you come here in your working clothes and I'm come in mine."--Sharpe's
Mag.

       *       *       *       *       *

FRIENDSHIP.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOT TUESDAY.

Derham, in his Physico-Theology, says, "July 8th, 1707, (called for some time after the hot
Tuesday,) was so excessively hot and suffocating, by reason there was no wind stirring, that
divers persons died, or were in great danger of death, in their harvest work. Particularly
one who had formerly been my servant, a healthy, lusty young man, was killed by the heat; and
several horses on the road dropped down and died the same day."