Christophe appreciated the acid freshness of such green frankness in contrast with the insipidity
of the people who frequented the middle way, the via di mezzo, who are in perpetual fear of
being compromised, and have a subtle talent for saying neither "Yes" nor "No." But very soon
he came to see that such people also, with their calm, courteous minds, have their worth. The
perpetual state of conflict in which his new friends lived was very tiring. Christophe began
by thinking it his duty to go to Grazia's house to defend them. Sometimes he went there to
forget them. No doubt he was like them, too much like them. They were now what he had been
twenty years ago. And life never goes back. At heart Christophe well knew that, for his own
part, he had forever said good-by to such violence, and that he was going towards peace, whose
secret seemed to lie for him in Grazia's eyes. Why, then, was he in revolt against her?...
Ah! In the egoism of his love he longed to be the only one to enjoy her peace. He could not
bear Grazia to dispense its benefits without marking how to all comers she extended the same
prodigally gracious welcome.

       *       *       *       *       *

She read his thoughts, and, with her charming frankness, she said to him one day:

"You are angry with me for being what I am? You must not idealize me, my dear. I am a woman,
and no better than another. I don't go out of my way for society; but I admit that I like it,
just as I like going sometimes to an indifferent play, or reading foolish books, which you
despise, though I find them soothing and amusing. I cannot refuse anything."

"How can you endure these idiots?"

"Life has taught me not to be too nice. One must not ask too much. It is a good deal, I assure
you, when one finds honest people, with no harm in them, kindly people.... (naturally, of course,
supposing one expects nothing of them; I know perfectly well that if I had need of them, I
should not find many to help me...). And yet they are fond of me, and when I find a little
real affection, I hold the rest cheap. You are angry with me? Forgive me for being an ordinary
person. I can at least see the difference between what is best and what is not so good in myself.
And what you have is the best."

"I want everything," he said gloweringly.

However, he felt that what she said was true. He was so sure of her affection that, after long
hesitation, over many weeks, he asked her one day:

"Will you ever...?"

"What is it?"

"Be mine."

He went on:

"... and I yours."

She smiled:

"But you are mine, my dear."

"You know what I mean."

She was a little unhappy: but she took his hands and looked at him frankly:

"No, my dear," she said tenderly.

He could not speak. She saw that he was hurt.

"Forgive me. I have hurt you. I knew that you would say that to me. We must speak out frankly
and in all truth, like good friends."

"Friends," he said sadly. "Nothing more?"

"You are ungrateful. What more do you want? To marry me?... Do you remember the old days when
you had eyes only for my pretty cousin? I was sad then because you would not understand what
I felt for you. Our whole lives might have been changed. Now I think it was better as it has
been; it is better that we should never expose our friendship to the test of common life, the
daily life, in which even the purest must be debased...."

"You say that because you love me less."

"Oh no! I love you just the same."

"Ah! That is the first time you have told me."

"There must be nothing hidden from us now. You see, I have not much faith in marriage left.
Mine, I know, was not a very good example. But I have thought and looked about me. Happy marriages
are very rare. It is a little against nature. You cannot bind together the wills of two people
without mutilating one of them, if not both, and it does not even bring the suffering through
which it is well and profitable for the soul to pass."

"Ah!" he said. "But I can see in it a fine thing--the union of two sacrifices, two souls merged
into one."

"A fine thing, in your dreams. In reality you would suffer more than any one."

"What! You think I could never have a wife, a family, children?... Don't say that! I should
love them so! You think it impossible for me to have that happiness?"

"I don't know. I don't think so. Perhaps with a good woman, not very intelligent, not very
beautiful, who would be devoted to you, and would not understand you."

"How unkind of you!... But you are wrong to make fun of it. A good woman is a fine thing, even
if she has no mind."

"I agree. Shall I find you one?"

"Please! No. You are hurting me. How can you talk like that?"

"What have I said?"

"You don't love me at all, not at all. You can't if you can think of my marrying another woman."

"On the contrary, it is because I love you that I should be happy to do anything which could
make you happy."

"Then, if that is true...."

"No, no. Don't go back to that. I tell you, it would make you miserable."

"Don't worry about me. I swear to you that I shall be happy! Speak the truth: do you think
that you would be unhappy with me?"

"Oh! Unhappy? No, my dear. I respect and admire you too much ever to be unhappy with you....
But, I will tell you: I don't think anything could make me very unhappy now. I have seen too
much. I have become philosophical.... But, frankly--(You want me to? You won't be angry?)--well.
I know my own weakness. I should, perhaps, be foolish enough, after a few months, not to be
perfectly happy with you; and I will not have that, just because my affection for you is the
most holy thing in the world, and I will not have it tarnished."

Sadly, he said:

"Yes, you say that, to sweeten the pill. You don't like me. There are things in me which are
odious to you."

"No, no. I assure you. Don't look so hang-dog. You are the dearest, kindest man...."

"Then I don't understand. Why couldn't we agree?"

"Because we are too different--both too decided, too individual."

"That is why I love you."

"I too. But that is why we should find ourselves conflicting."

"No." "Yes. Or, rather, as I know that you are bigger than I, I should reproach myself with
embarrassing you with my smaller personality, and then I should be stifled. I should say nothing,
and I should suffer."

Tears came to Christophe's eyes.

"Oh! I won't have that. Never! I would rather be utterly miserable than have you suffering
through my fault, for my sake."

"My dear, you mustn't feel it like that.... You know, I say all that, but I may be flattering
myself.... Perhaps I should not be so good as to sacrifice myself for you."

"All the better."

"But, then, I should sacrifice you, and that would be misery for me.... You see, there is no
solving the difficulty either way. Let us stay as we are. Could there be anything better than
our friendship?"

He nodded his head and smiled a little bitterly.

"Yes. That is all very well. But at bottom you don't love me enough."

She smiled too, gently, with a little melancholy, and said, with a sigh:

"Perhaps. You are right. I am no longer young. I am tired. Life wears one out unless one is
very strong, like you.... Oh! you, there are times when I look at you and you seem to be a
boy of eighteen."

"Alas! With my old face, my wrinkles, my dull skin!"

"I know that you have suffered as much as I--perhaps more. I can see that. But sometimes you
look at me with the eyes of a boy, and I feel you giving out a fresh stream of life. I am worn
out. When I think of my old eagerness, then--alas! As one said, 'Those were great days. I was
very unhappy!' I hold to life only by a thread. I should never be bold enough to try marriage
again. Ah! Then! Then!... If you had only given a sign!..."

"Well, then, well, tell me...."

"No. It is not worth the trouble."

"Then, if in the old days, if I had...."

"Yes. If you had...? I said nothing."

"I understood. You are cruel."

"Take it, then, that in the old days I was a fool."

"You are making it worse and worse."

"Poor Christophe! I can't say a word but it hurts you. I shan't say any more."

"You must.... Tell me.... Tell me something."

"Something?"

"Something kind."

She laughed.

"Don't laugh."

"Then you must not be sad."

"How can I be anything else?"

"You have no reason to be sad, I assure you."

"Why?"

"Because you have a friend who loves you."

"Truly?"

"If I tell you so, won't you believe me?"

"Tell me, then."

"You won't be sad any longer? You won't be insatiable? You will be content with our dear friendship?"

"I must."

"Oh! Ungrateful! And you say you love me? Really, I think I love you better than you love me."

"Ah! If it were possible."

He said that with such an outburst of lover's egoism that she laughed. He too. He insisted:

"Tell me!..."

For a moment she was silent, looking at him, then suddenly she brought her face close to Christophe's
and kissed him. It was so unexpected! His heart leaped within him. He tried to take her in
his arms. But she had escaped. At the door of the little room she laid her finger on her lips.--"Hush!"--and
disappeared.

       *       *       *       *       *

From that moment on he did not again speak to her of his love, and he was less awkward in his
relation with her. Their alternations of strained silence and ill-suppressed violence were
succeeded by a simple restful intimacy. That is the advantage of frankness in friendship. No
more hidden meanings, no more illusions, no more fears. Each knew the other's innermost thoughts.
Now when Christophe was with Grazia in the company of strangers who irritated him and he lost
patience at hearing her exchange with them the empty remarks usual in polite society, she would
notice it and look at him and smile. It was enough to let him know that they were together,
and he would find his peace restored.

The presence of the beloved robs the imagination of its poisoned dart: the fever of desire
is cooled: the soul becomes absorbed in the chaste possession of the loved presence.--Besides,
Grazia shed on all about her the silent charm of her harmonious nature. Any exaggeration of
voice or gesture, even if it were involuntary, wounded her, as a thing that was not simple
and beautiful. In this way she influenced Christophe little by little. Though at first he tugged
at the bridle put upon his eagerness, he slowly gained the mastery of himself, and he was all
the stronger since his force was not wasted in useless violence.

Their souls met and mingled. Grazia, who had smilingly surrendered to the sweetness of living,
was awaked from her slumber by contact with Christophe's moral energy. She took a more direct
and less passive interest in the things of the mind. She used to read very little, preferring
to browse indolently over the same old books, but now she began to be curious about new ideas,
and soon came to feel their attraction. The wealth of the world of modern ideas, which was
not unknown to her though she had never cared to adventure in it alone, no longer frightened
her now that she had a companion and guide. Insensibly she suffered herself, while she protested
against it, to be drawn on to an understanding of the young Italians, whose ardent iconoclasm
had always been distasteful to her.

But Christophe profited the more by this mutual perception. It has often been observed in love
that the weaker of the two gives the most: it is not that the other loves less, but, being
stronger, must take more. So Christophe had already been enriched by Olivier's mind. But this
new mystic marriage was far more fruitful; for Grazia brought him for her dowry the rarest
treasure, that Olivier had never possessed--joy. The joy of the soul and of the eyes. Light.
The smile of the Latin sky, that loves the ugliness of the humblest things, and sets the stones
of the old walls flowering, and endows even sadness with its calm radiance.

The budding spring entered into alliance with her. The dream of new life was teeming in the
warmth of the slumbering air. The young green was wedding with the silver-gray of the olive-trees.
Beneath the dark red arches of the ruined aqueducts flowered the white almond-trees. In the
awakening Campagna waved the seas of grass and the triumphant flames of the poppies. Down the
lawns of the villas flowed streams of purple anemones and sheets of violets. The glycine clambered
up the umbrella-shaped pines, and the wind blowing over the city brought the scent of the roses
of the Palatine.

They went for walks together. When she was able to shake off the almost Oriental torpor, in
which for hours together she would muse, she became another creature: she loved walking; she
was tall, with a fine length of leg, and a strong, supple figure, and she looked like a Diana
of Primatice.--Most often they would go to one of the villas, left like flotsam from the shipwreck
of the Splendid Rome of the setticento under the assault of the flood of the Piedmontese barbarians.
They preferred, above all, the Villa Mattei, that promontory of ancient Rome, beneath which
the last waves of the deserted Campagna sink and die. They used to go down the avenue of oaks
that, with its deep vault, frames the blue, the pleasant chains of the Alban hills, softly
swelling like a beating heart. Along the path through the leaves they could see the tombs of
Roman husbands and wives, lying sadly there, with hands clasped in fidelity. They used to sit
down at the end of the avenue, under an arbor of roses against a white sarcophagus. Behind
them the desert. Profound peace. The murmuring of a slow-dropping fountain, trickling languidly,
so languidly that it seemed on the point of dying. They would talk in whispers. Grazia's eyes
would trustfully gaze into the eyes of her friend. Christophe would tell her of his life, his
struggles, his past sorrows; and there was no more sadness in them. In her presence, with her
eyes upon him, everything was simple, everything seemed inevitable.... She, in her turn, would
tell of her life. He hardly heard what she said, but none of her thoughts were lost upon him.
His soul and hers were wedded. He saw with her eyes. Everywhere he saw her eyes, her tranquil
eyes, in the depths of which there burned an ardent fire; he saw them in the fair, mutilated
faces of the antique statues and in the riddle of their silent gaze: he saw them in the sky
of Rome, lovely laughing around the matted crests of the cypress-trees and through the fingers
of the lecci, black, shining, riddled with the sun's arrows.

Through Grazia's eyes the meaning of Latin art reached his heart. Till then Christophe had
been entirely indifferent to the work of the Italians. The barbarian idealist, the great bear
from the German forests, had not yet learned to taste the delicious savor of the lovely gilded
marbles, golden as honey. The antiques of the Vatican were frankly repulsive to him. He was
disgusted by their stupid faces, their effeminate or massive proportions, their banal, rounded
modeling, all the Gitons and gladiators. Hardly more than a few portrait-statues found favor
in his sight, and the originals had absolutely no interest for him. He was no more kindly towards
the pale, grimacing Florentines and their sick Madonnas and pre-Raphaelite Venuses, anaemic,
consumptive, affected, and tormented. And the bestial stupidity of the red, sweating bullies
and athletes let loose upon the world by the example of the Sistine Chapel made him think of
cast-iron. Only for Michael Angelo did he have a secret feeling of pious sympathy with his
tragic sufferings, his divine contempt, and the loftiness of his chaste passions. With a pure
barbaric love, like that of the master, he loved the religious nudity of his youths, his shy,
wild virgins, like wild creatures caught in a trap, the sorrowful Aurora, the wild-eyed Madonna,
with her Child biting at her breast, and the lovely Lia, whom he would fain have had to wife.
But in the soul of the tormented hero he found nothing more than the echo of his own.

Grazia opened the gates of a new world of art for him. He entered into the sovereign serenity
of Raphael and Titian. He saw the imperial splendor of the classic genius, which, like a lion,
reigns over the universe of form conquered and mastered. The flashing vision of the great Venetian
which goes straight to the heart of life, and with its lightning cleaves the hovering mists
that veil it, the masterful might of these Latin minds that cannot only conquer, but also conquer
themselves, and in victory impose upon themselves the straitest discipline, and, on the field
of battle, have the art exactly to choose their rightful booty from among the spoils of the
enemy overthrown--the Olympian portraits and the stanze of Raphael filled Christophe's heart
with music richer than Wagner's, the music of serene lives, noble architecture, harmonious
grouping, the music which shines forth from the perfect beauty of face, hands, feet, draperies,
and gestures. Intelligence. Love. The stream of love which springs from those youthful souls
and bodies. The might of the spirit and delight. Young tenderness, ironic wisdom, the warm
obsessing odor of amorous bodies, the luminous smile in which the shadows are blotted out and
passion slumbers. The quivering force of life rearing and reined in, like the horses of the
Sun, by the sturdy hand of the master....

And Christophe wondered:

"Is it impossible to unite, as they have done, the force and the peace of the Romans? Nowadays
the best men aspire only to force or peace, one to the detriment of the other. Of all men the
Italians seem most utterly to have lost the sense of harmony which Poussin, Lorraine, and Goethe
understood. Must a stranger once more reveal to them its work?... And what man shall teach
it to our musicians? Music has not yet had its Raphael. Mozart is only a child, a little German
bourgeois, with feverish hands and sentimental soul, who uses too many words, too many gestures,
and chatters and weeps and laughs over nothing. And neither the Gothic Bach nor the Prometheus
of Bonn, struggling with the vulture, nor his offspring of Titans piling Pelion on Ossa, and
hurling imprecations at the Heavens, hare ever seen the smile of God...."

After he had seen it, Christophe was ashamed of his own music; his vain agitation, his turgid
passions, his indiscreet exclamations, his parade of himself, his lack of moderation, seemed
to him both pitiable and shameful. A flock of sheep without a shepherd, a kingdom without a
king.--A man must be the king of his tumultuous soul....

During these months Christophe seemed to have forgotten music. He hardly wrote at all, feeling
no need for it. His mind, fertilized by Rome, was in a period of gestation. He spent days together
in a dreamy state of semi-intoxication. Nature, like himself, was in the early spring-time,
when the languor of the awakening is mixed with a voluptuous dizziness. Nature and he lay dreaming,
locked in each other's arms, like lovers embracing in their sleep. The feverish enigma of the
Campagna was no longer hostile and disturbing to him; he had made himself master of its tragic
beauty; in his arms he held Demeter, sleeping.

       *       *       *       *       *

During April he received an invitation from Paris to go there and conduct a series of concerts.
Without troubling to think it over, he decided to refuse, but thought it better to mention
it to Grazia. It was very sweet to him to consult her about his life, for it gave him the illusion
that she shared it.

This time she gave him a shock of disillusion. She made him explain the whole matter to her,
and advised him to accept. He was very hurt, and saw in her advice the proof of her indifference.

Probably Grazia was sorry to give him such advice. But why did Christophe ask her for it? The
more he turned to her and asked her to decide for him, the more she thought herself responsible
for her friend's actions. As a result of their interchange of ideas she had gained from Christophe
a little of his will-power: he had revealed to her duty and the beauty of action. At least
she had recognized duty as far as her friend was concerned, and she would not have him fail
in it. Better than he, she knew the power of languor given off by the Italian soil, which,
like the insidious poison of its warm scirocco, creeps into the veins and sends the will to
sleep. How often had she not felt its maleficent charm, and had no power to resist it! All
her friends were more or less tainted by this malaria of the soul. Stronger men than they had
in old days fallen victim to it: it had rusted away the brass of the Roman she-wolf. Rome breathes
forth death: it is too full of graves. It is healthier to stay there for a little time than
to live there. Too easily does one slip out of one's own time, a dangerous taste for the still
young forces that have a vast duty to accomplish. Grazia saw clearly that the society about
her had not a life-giving air for an artist. And although she had more friendship for Christophe
than for any other ... (dared she confess it?) ... she was not, at heart, sorry for him to
go. Alas! He wearied her with the very qualities that she most loved in him, his overflowing
intelligence, his abundance of vitality, accumulated for years, and now brimming over: her
tranquillity was disturbed by it. And he wearied her, too, perhaps, because she was always
conscious of the menace of his love, beautiful and touching, but ever-present: so that she
had always to be on her guard against it; it was more prudent to keep him at a distance. She
did not admit it to herself, and thought she had no consideration for anything but Christophe's
interests.

There was no lack of sound reasons at hand. In Italy just then it was difficult for a musician
to live: the air was circumscribed. The musical life of the country was suppressed and deformed.
The factory of the theater scattered its heavy ashes and its burning smoke upon the soil, whose
flowers in old days had perfumed all Europe. If a man refused to enroll himself in the train
of the brawlers, and could not, or would not, enter the factory, he was condemned to exile
or a stifled existence. Genius was by no means dried up. But it was left to stagnate unprofitably
and to go to ruin. Christophe had met more than one young musician in whom there lived again
the soul of the melodious masters of the race and the instinct of beauty which filled the wise
and simple art of the past. But who gave a thought to them? They could neither get their work
played nor published. No interest was taken in the symphony. There were no ears for music except
it were presented with a painted face!... So discouraged, they sang for themselves, and soon
sang no more. What was the good of it? Sleep....--Christophe would have asked nothing better
than to help them. While they admitted that he could do so, their umbrageous pride would not
consent to it. Whatever he did, he was a foreigner to them; and for Italians of long descent,
in spite of the warm welcome they will give him, every foreigner is really a barbarian. They
thought that the wretched condition of their art was a question to be threshed out among themselves,
and while, they extended all kind of friendly tributes to Christophe, they could not admit
him as one of themselves.--What could he do? He could not compete with them and dispute with
them their meager place in the sun, where they were by no means secure!...

Besides, genius cannot do without its food. The musician must have music--music to hear, music
to make heard. A temporary withdrawal is valuable to the mind by forcing it to recuperate.
But this can only be on condition that it will return. Solitude is noble, but fatal to an artist
who has not the strength to break out of it. An artist must live the life of his own time,
even if it be clamorous and impure: he must forever be giving and receiving, and giving, and
giving, and again receiving.--Italy, at the time of Christophe's sojourn, was no longer the
great market of the arts that once it was, and perhaps will be again. Nowadays the meeting-place
of ideas, the exchange of the thought and spirit of the nations, are in the North. He who has
the will to live must live in the North.

Left to himself, Christophe would have shuddered away from the rout. But Grazia felt his duty
more clearly than he could see it. And she demanded more of him than of herself: no doubt because
she valued him more highly, but also because it suited her. She delegated her energy upon him,
and so maintained her tranquillity.--He had not the heart to be angry with her for it. Like
Mary, hers was the better part. Each of us has his part to play in life. Christophe's was action.
For her it was enough to be. He asked no more of her.

He asked nothing but to love her, if it were possible, a little less for himself, and a little
more for her. For he did not altogether like her having so little egoism in her friendship
as to think only of the interests of her friend--who asked only to be allowed to give no thought
to them.

       *       *       *       *       *

He went away from her. And yet he did not leave her. As an old trouvere says: "The lover does
not leave his beloved but with the sanction of his soul."

II

He was sick at heart as he reached Paris. It was the first time he had been there since the
death of Olivier. He had wished never to see the city again. In the cab which took him from
the station to his hotel he hardly dared look out of the window; for the first few days he
stayed in his room and could not bring himself to go out. He was fearful of the memories lying
in wait for him outside. But what exactly did he dread? Did he really know? Was it, as he tried
to believe, the terror of seeing the dead spring to life again exactly as they had been? Or
was it--the greater sorrow of being forced to know that they were dead?... Against this renewal
of grief all the half-unconscious ruses of instinct had taken up arms. It was for this reason--(though
perhaps he knew it not)--that he had chosen a hotel in a district far removed from that in
which he had lived. And when for the first time he went out into the streets, having to conduct
rehearsals at the concert-hall, when once more he came in contact with the life of Paris, he
walked for a long time with his eyes closed, refusing to see what he did see, insisting on
seeing only what he had seen in old days. He kept on saying to himself:

"I know that. I know that...."

In art as in politics there was the same intolerant anarchy. The same Fair in the market-place.
Only the actors had changed their parts. The revolutionaries of his day had become bourgeois,
and the supermen had become men of fashion. The old independents were trying to stifle the
new independents. The young men of twenty years ago were now more conservative than the old
conservatives whom they had fought, and their critics refused the newcomers the right to live.
Apparently nothing was different.

But everything had changed....

       *       *       *       *       *

"My dear, forgive me. It is good of you not to be angry with me for my silence. Your letter
has helped me greatly. I have been through several weeks of terrible distress. I had nothing.
I had lost you. Here I was feeling terribly the absence of those whom I have lost. All my old
friends of whom I used to tell you have disappeared--Philomela--(you remember the singing voice
that dear, sad night when, as I wandered through a gay crowd, I saw your eyes in a mirror gazing
at me)--Philomela has realized her very reasonable dream: she inherited a little money, and
has a farm in Normandy. M. Arnaud has retired and gone back to the provinces with his wife,
to a little town near Angers. Of the famous men of my day many are dead or gone under; none
are left save the same old puppets who twenty years ago were playing the juvenile lead in art
and politics, and with the same false faces are still playing it. Outside these masks there
are none whom I recognize. They seem to me to be grimacing over a grave. It is a terrible feeling.--More
than this: during the first few days after my arrival I suffered physically from the ugliness
of things, from the gray light of the North after your golden sun: the masses of dull houses,
the vulgar lines of certain domes and monuments, which had never struck me before, hurt me
cruelly. Nor was the moral atmosphere any more to my taste.

"And yet I have no complaint to make of the Parisians. They have given me a welcome altogether
different from that which I received before. In my absence I seem to have become a kind of
celebrity. I will say nothing of that, for I know what it is worth. I am touched by all the
pleasant things which these people say and write of me, and am obliged to them. But what shall
I say to you? I felt much nearer the people who attacked me in old days than I do to the people
who laud me now.... It is my own fault, I know. Don't scold me. I had a moment of uneasiness.
It was to be expected. It is done now. I understand. Yes. You are right to have sent me back
among men. I was in a fair way to be buried in my solitude. It is unhealthy to play at Zarathustra.
The flood of life moves on, moves on away from us. There comes a time when one is as a desert.
Many weary days in the burning sun are needed to dig a new channel in the sand, to dig down
to the river.--It has been done. I am no longer dizzy. I am in the current again. I look and see.

"My dear, what a strange people are the French! Twenty years ago I thought they were finished....
They are just beginning again. My dear comrade, Jeannin, foretold it. But I thought he was
deceiving himself. How could one believe it then! France was, like their Paris, full of broken
houses, plaster, and holes. I said: 'They have destroyed everything.... What a race of rodents!'--a
race of beavers. Just when you think them prostrate on their ruins, lo, they are using the
ruins to lay the foundations of a new city. I can see it now in the scaffoldings which are
springing up on all sides....

"Wenn ein Ding geschehen Selbst die Narren es verstehen,..." [Footnote: "When a thing has happened,
even the fools can see it."]

"In truth there is just the same French disorder. One needs to be used to it to see in the
rout seething up from all directions, the bands of workmen, each going about his appointed
task. There are also people who can do nothing without vilifying what their neighbors are doing.
All this is calculated to upset the stoutest head. But when you have lived, as I have, nearly
ten years with them, you cannot be deceived by their uproar. You see then that it is their
way of spurring themselves on to work. They talk, but they work, and as each builder's yard
sets about building a house, in the end you find that the city has been re-builded. What is
most remarkable is that, taken together, all these buildings are not discordant. They may maintain
opposing theses, but all their minds are cast in the same mold. So that, beneath their anarchy,
there are common instincts, a racial logic which takes the place of discipline, and this discipline
is, when all is told, probably more solid than that of a Prussian regiment.

"Everywhere the same enthusiasm, the same constructive fever: in politics, where Socialists
and Nationalists vie with one another in tightening up the wheels of slackened power; in art,
which some wish to make into an old aristocratic mansion for the privileged few, and others
a vast hall open to the people, a hall where the collective soul can sing; they are reconstructors
of the past, or constructors of the future. But whatever they do, these ingenious creatures
are forever building the same cells. They have the instincts of beavers or bees, and through
the ages are forever doing the same things, returning to the same forms. The most revolutionary
among them are perhaps those who most closely cling, though they may not know it, to the most
ancient traditions. Among the syndicates and the most striking of the young writers I have
found purely medieval souls.

"Now that I have grown used to their tumultuous ways, I can watch them working with pleasure.
Let us be frank: I am too old a bear ever to feel at ease in any of their houses: I need the
open air. But what good workers they are! That is their highest virtue. It laves the most mediocre
and the most corrupt: and then, in their artists, what a sense of beauty! I remarked that much
less in the old days. You taught me to see. My eyes were opened in the light of Rome. Your
Renaissance men have helped me to understand these. A page of Debussy, a torso of Rodin, a
phrase of Suares, these are all in the direct line from your cinquecestenti.

"Not that there is not much that is distasteful to me here. I have found my old friends of
the market-place, who used to drive me to fury. They have not changed. But, alas! I have changed.
I cannot be severe. When I feel myself wanting to judge one of them harshly I say to myself:
'You have no right. You have done worse than these men, though you thought yourself so strong.'
Also, I have learned that nothing exists in vain, and that even the vilest have their place
in the scheme of the tragedy. The depraved dilettantists, the foetid amoralists, have accomplished
their termitic task; the tottering ruins must be brought down before they can be built up again.
The Jews have been true to their sacred mission, which is, in the midst of other races, to
be a foreign race, the race which, from end to end of the world, is to link up the network
of human unity. They break down the intellectual barriers between the nations, to give Divine
Reason an open field. The worst agents of corruption, the ironic destroyers who ruin our old
beliefs and kill our well-beloved dead, toil, unwittingly, in the holy work of new life. So
the ferocious self-interest of the cosmopolitan bankers, whose labors are attended with such
and so many disasters, build, whether they will or no, the future peace of the world, side
by side with the revolutionaries who combat them, far more surely than the idiotic pacifists.

"You see, I am getting old. I have lost my bite. My teeth have lost their sharpness. When I
go to the theater I am now only one of those simple spectators who apostrophize the actors
and cry shame on the traitor.

"My tranquil Grace, I am only talking about myself: and yet I think only of you. If you knew
how importunate is my ego! It is oppressive and absorbing. It is like a millstone that God
has tied round my neck. How I should have loved to lay it at your feet! But what would you
have done with it? It is a poor kind of present.... Your feet were made to tread the soft earth
and the sand sinking beneath the tread. I see your feet carelessly passing over the lawns dappled
with anemones.... (Have you been again to the Villa Doria?)... And you are tired! I see you
now half-reclining in your favorite retreat, in your drawing-room, propped up on your elbow,
holding a book which you do not read. You listen to me kindly, without paying much attention
to what I say; for I am tiresome, and, for patience, you turn every now and then to your own
thoughts; but you are courteous, and, taking care not to upset me, when a chance word brings
you back from your distant journeying, your eyes, so absent before, quickly take on an expression
of interest. And I am as far from what I am saying as you: I, too, hardly hear the sound of
my words: and while I follow their reflection in your lovely face, in my heart I listen to
other words which I do not speak to you. Those words, my tranquil Grace, unlike the others,
you hear quite clearly, but you pretend not to hear them.

"Adieu. I think you will see me again in a little while, I shall not languish here. What should
I do now that my concerts are over?--I kiss your children on their little cheeks. They are
yours and you. I must be content!...

"CHRISTOPHE."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Tranquil Grace" replied:

"My dear,

"I received your letter in the little corner of the drawing-room that you remember so well,
and I read it, as I am clever at reading, by letting your letter fall every now and then and
resting. Don't laugh at me. I did that to make it last a long time. In that way we spent a
whole afternoon together. The children asked me what it was I kept on reading. I told them
it was a letter from you. Aurora looked at the paper pityingly and said: 'How tiresome it must
be to write such a long letter!' I tried to make her understand that it was not an imposition
I had set you, but a conversation we were having together. She listened without a word, then
ran away with her brother to play in the next room, and a little later, when Lionello began
to shout, I heard Aurora say: 'You mustn't make such a noise: mamma is talking to M. Christophe.'

"What you tell me about the French interests me, but it does not surprise me. You remember
that I often used to reproach you with being unjust towards them. It is impossible to like
them. But what an intelligent people they are! There are mediocre nations who are preserved
by their goodness of heart or their physical vigor. The French are saved by their intelligence.
It laves all their weaknesses, and regenerates them. When you think they are down, beaten,
perverted, they find new youth in the ever-bubbling spring of their minds.

"But I must scold you. You ask my pardon for speaking only of yourself. You are an ingannatore.
You tell me nothing about yourself. Nothing of what you have been doing. Nothing of what you
have been seeing. My cousin Colette--(why did not you go and see her?)--had to send me press-cuttings
about your concerts, or I should have known nothing of your success. You only mentioned it
by the way. Are you so detached from everything?... It is not true. Tell me that it pleased
you.... It must please you, if only because it pleases me. I don't like you to have a disillusioned
air. The tone of your letter is melancholic. That must not be.... It is good that you are more
just to others. But that is no reason why you should abase yourself, as you do, by saying that
you are worse than the worst of them. A good Christian would applaud you. I tell you it is
a bad thing. I am not a good Christian. I am a good Italian, and I don't like you tormenting
yourself with the past. The present is quite enough. I don't know exactly what it was that
you did. You told me the story in a very few words, and I think I guessed the rest. It was
not a nice story, but you are none the less dear to me for it. My poor, dear Christophe, a
woman does not reach my age without knowing that an honest man is often very weak. If one did
not know his weakness one would not love him so much. Don't think any more about what you have
done. Think of what you are going to do. Repentance is quite useless. Repentance means going
back. And in good as in evil, we must always go forward. Sempre avanti, Savoia!... So you think
I am going to let you come back to Rome! You have nothing to do here. Stay in Paris, work,
do: play your part in its artistic life. I will not have you throw it all up. I want you to
make beautiful things, I want them to succeed, I want you to be strong and to help the new
young Christophes who are setting out on the same struggles, and passing through the same trials.
Look for them, help them, be kinder to your juniors than your seniors were to you.--In fine,
I want you to be strong because I know that you are strong: you have no idea of the strength
that gives me.

"Almost every day I go with the children to the Villa Borghese. Yesterday we drove to Ponte
Molle, and walked round the tower of Monte Mario. You slander my powers of walking and my legs
cry out against you: 'What did the fellow mean by saying at the Villa Doria that we get tired
in ten paces? He knows nothing about it. If we are not prone to give ourselves trouble, it
is because we are lazy, and not because we cannot....' You forget, my dear, that I am a little
peasant....

"Go and see my cousin Colette. Are you still angry with her? She is a good creature at heart,
and she swears by you! Apparently the Parisian women are crazy about your music. (Perhaps they
were in the old days.) My Berne bear may, and he will, be the lion of Paris. Have you had letters?
And declarations? You don't mention any woman. Can you be in love? Tell me. I am not jealous.
Your friend,

"G."

       *       *       *       *       *

"... So you think I am likely to be pleased with your last sentence! I would to God you were
jealous! But don't look to me to make you so. I have no taste for these mad Parisiennes, as
you call them. Mad? They would like to be so. But they are nothing like it. You need not hope
that they will turn my head. There would be more chance of it perhaps if they were indifferent
to my music. But it is only too true that they love it; and how am I to keep my illusions?
When any one tells you that he understands you, you may be very sure that he will never do so....

"Don't take my joking too seriously. The feeling I have for you does not make me unjust to
other women. I have never had such true sympathy for them as I have now since I ceased to look
at them with lover's eyes. The tremendous effort they have been making during the last thirty
years to escape from the degrading and unwholesome semi-domesticity, to which our stupid male
egoism condemned them, to their and our unhappiness, seems to me to be one of the most splendid
facts of our time. In a town like this one learns to admire the new generation of young women,
who, in spite of so many obstacles, with so much fresh ardor rush on to the conquest of knowledge
and diplomas,--the knowledge, the diplomas which, they think, must liberate them, open to them
the arcana of the unknown world and make them the equals of men....

"No doubt their faith is illusory and rather ridiculous. But progress is never realized as
we expect it to be: it is none the less realized because it takes entirely different paths
from those we have marked out for it. This effort of the women will not be wasted. It will
make women completer and more human, as they were in the great ages. They will no longer be
without interest in the living questions of the world, as most scandalously and monstrously
they have been, for it is intolerable that a woman, though she be never so careful in her domestic
duties, should think herself absolved from thinking of her civic duties in the modern city.
Their great-great-grandmothers of the time of Joan of Arc and Catherine Sforza were not of
this way of thinking. Woman has withered. We have refused her air and sun. She is taking them
from us again by force. Ah! the brave little creatures!... Of course, many of those who are
now struggling will die and many will be led astray. It is an age of crisis. The effort is
too violent for those whose strength has too much gone to seed. When a plant has been for a
long time without water, the first shower of rain is apt to scald it. But what would you? It
is the price of progress. Those who come after will flourish through their sufferings. The
poor little warlike virgins of our time, many of whom will never marry, will be more fruitful
for posterity than the generations of matrons who gave birth before them; for, at the cost
of their sacrifices, there will issue from them the women of a new classic age.

"I have not found these working bees in your cousin Colette's drawing-room. What whim was it
made you send me to her? I had to obey you; but it is not well: you are abusing your power.
I had refused three of her invitations, left two of her letters unanswered. She came and hunted
me up at one of my rehearsals--(they were going through my sixth symphony). I saw her, during
the interval, come in with her nose in the air, sniffing and crying: 'That smacks of love!
Ah! How I love such music!...'

"She has changed, physically; only her cat-like eyes with their bulging pupils, and her fantastic
nose, always wrinkling up and never still, are the same. But her face is wider, big-boned,
highly colored, and coarsened. Sport has transformed her. She gives herself up to sport of
all kinds. Her husband, as you know, is one of the swells at the Automobile Club and the Aero
Club. There is not an aviation meeting, nor a race by air, land, or water, but the Stevens-Delestrades
think themselves compelled to be present at it. They are always out on the highways and byways.
Conversation is quite impossible; they talk of nothing but Racing, Rowing, Rugby, and the Derby.
They belong to a new race of people. The days of Pelleas are forever gone for the women. Souls
are no longer in fashion. All the girls hoist a red, swarthy complexion, tanned by driving
in the open air and playing games in the sun: they look at you with eyes like men's eyes: they
laugh and their laughter is a little coarse. In tone they have become more brutal, more crude.
Every now and then your cousin will quite calmly say the most shocking things. She is a great
eater, where she used to eat hardly anything. She still complains about her digestion, merely
out of habit, but she never misses a mouthful for it. She reads nothing. No one reads among
these people. Only music has found favor in their sight. Music has even profited by the neglect
of literature. When these people are worn out, music is a Turkish bath to them, a warm vapor,
massage, tobacco. They have no need to think. They pass from sport to love, and love also is
a sport. But the most popular sport among their esthetic entertainments is dancing. Russian
dancing, Greek dancing, Swiss dancing, American dancing, everything is set to a dance in Paris:
Beethoven's symphonies, the tragedies of Aschylus, the Clavecin bien Tempere, the antiques
of the Vatican, Orpheus, Tristan, the Passion, and gymnastics. These people are suffering from
vertigo.

"The queer thing is to see how your cousin reconciles everything, her estheticism, her sport,
and her practical sense (for she has inherited from her mother her sense of business and her
domestic despotism). All these things ought to make an incredible mixture, but she is quite
at her ease with them all: her most foolish eccentricities leave her mind quite clear, just
as she keeps her eyes and hands sure when she goes whirling along in her motor. She is a masterful
woman: her husband, her guests, her servants, she leads them all, with drums beating and colors
flying. She is also busy with politics: she is for 'Monseigneur'; not that I believe her to
be a royalist, but it is another excuse for bestirring herself. And although she is incapable
of reading more than ten pages of a book, she arranges the elections to the Academies.--She
set about extending her patronage to me. You may guess that that was not at all to my liking.
What is most exasperating is that the fact of my having visited her in obedience to you has
absolutely convinced her of her power over me. I take my revenge in thrusting home truths at
her. She only laughs, and is never at a loss for a reply. 'She is a good creature at heart....'
Yes, provided she is occupied. She admits that herself: if the machine has nothing to grind
she is capable of anything and everything to keep it going.--I have been to her house twice.
I shall not go again. Twice is enough to prove my obedience to you. You don't want me to die?
I leave her house broken, crushed, cramped. Last time I saw her I had a frightful nightmare
after it: I dreamed I was her husband, all my life tied to that living whirlwind.... A foolish
dream, and it need not trouble her real husband, for of all who go to the house he is the last
to be seen with her, and when they are together they only talk of sport. They get on very well.

"How could these people make my music a success? I try not to understand. I suppose it shocked
them in a new way. They liked it for brutalizing them. For the time being they like art with
a body to it. But they have not the faintest conception of the soul in the body: they will
pass from the infatuation of to-day to the indifference of to-morrow, from the indifference
of to-morrow to the abuse of the day after, without ever having known it. That is the history
of all artists. I am under no illusion as to my success, and have not been for a long time:
and they will make me pay for it.--Meanwhile I see the most curious things going on. The most
enthusiastic of my admirers is ... (I give him you among a thousand) ... our friend Levy-Coeur.
You remember the gentleman with whom I fought a ridiculous duel? Now he instructs those who
used not to understand me. He does it very well too. He is the most intelligent of all the
men talking about me. You may judge what the others are worth. There is nothing to be proud
of, I assure you.

"I don't want to be proud of it. I am too humiliated when I hear the work for which I am belauded.
I see myself in it, and what I see is not beautiful. What a merciless mirror is a piece of
music to those who can see into it! Happily they are blind and deaf. I have put so much of
my troubles and weaknesses into my work that sometimes it seems to me wicked to let loose upon
the world such hordes of demons. I am comforted when I see the tranquillity of the audience:
they are trebly armored: nothing can reach them: were it not so, I should be damned.... You
reproach me with being too hard on myself. You do not know me as I know myself. They see what
we are: they do not see what we might have been, and we are honored for what is not so much
the effect of our qualities as of the events that bear us along, and the forces which control
us. Let me tell you a story....

"The other evening I was in one of the cafes where they play fairly good music, though in a
queer way: with five or six instruments, filled out with a piano, they play all the symphonies,
the masses, the oratorios. It is just like the stonecutters in Rome, where they sell the Medici
chapel as an ornament for the mantelpiece. Apparently this is useful to art, which, if it is
to circulate among men, must be turned into base coin. For the rest there is no deception in
these concerts. The programs are copious, the musicians conscientious. I found a violoncellist
there and entered into conversation with him: his eyes reminded me strangely of my father's;
he told me the story of his life. He was the grandson of a peasant, the son of a small official,
a clerk in a mairie in a village in the North. They wanted to make him a gentleman, a lawyer,
and he was sent to school in the neighboring town. He was a sturdy country boy, not at all
fitted for being cooped up over the small work of a notary's office, and he could not stay
caged in: he used to jump over the wall, and wander through the fields, and run after the girls,
and spend his strength in brawling: the rest of the time he lounged and dreamed of things he
would never do. Only one thing had any attraction for him: music. God knows why! There was
not a single musician in his family, except a rather cracked great-uncle, one of those odd,
provincial characters, whose often remarkable intelligence and gifts are spent, in their proud
isolation, on whims, and cranks, and trivialities. This great-uncle had invented a new system
of notation--(yet another!)--which was to revolutionize music; he even claimed to have found
a system of stenography by which words, tune, and accompaniment could be written simultaneously;
but he never managed to transcribe it correctly himself. They just laughed at the old man in
the family, but all the same, they were proud of him. They thought: 'He is an old madman. Who
knows? Perhaps he is a genius.'--It was no doubt from him that the grandnephew had his mania
for music. What music could he hear in the little town?... But bad music can inspire a love
as pure as good music.

"The unhappy part of it was that there seemed no possibility of confessing to such a passion
in such surroundings: and the boy had not his great-uncle's cracked brains. He hid away to
read the old lunatic's lucubrations which formed the basis of his queer musical education.
Vain and fearful of his father and of public opinion, he would say nothing of his ambitions
until he had succeeded. He was crushed by his family, and did as so many French people of the
middle-class have to do when, out of weakness or kindness, they dare not oppose the will of
their relations: they submit to all appearance, and live their true life in perpetual secrecy.
Instead of following his bent, he struggled on, against his inclination, in the work they had
marked out for him. He was as incapable of succeeding in it as he was of coming to grief. Somehow
or other he managed to pass the necessary examinations. The main advantage to him was that
he escaped from the spying of his father and the neighbors. The law crushed him: he was determined
not to spend his life in it. But while his father was alive he dared not declare his desire.
Perhaps it was not altogether distasteful to him to have to wait a little before he took the
decisive step. He was one of those men who all their lives long dazzle themselves with what
they will do later on, with the things they could do. For the moment he did nothing. He lost
his bearings, and, intoxicated by his new life in Paris, gave himself up with all his young
peasant brutality to his two passions, woman and music; he was crazed with the concerts he
went to, no less than with pleasure. He wasted years doing this without even turning to account
the means at hand of completing his musical education. His umbrageous pride, his unfortunate
independent and susceptible character kept him from taking any course of lessons or asking
anybody's advice.

"When his father died he sent Themis and Justinian packing. He began to compose without having
had the courage to acquire the necessary technique. His inveterate habit of idle lounging and
his taste for pleasure had made him incapable of any serious effort. He felt keenly: but his
idea, and its form, would at once slip away: when all was told he expressed nothing but the
commonplace. The worst of all was that there was really something great in this mediocrity.
I read two of his old compositions. Here and there were striking ideas, left in the rough and
then deformed. They were like fireflies over a bog.... And what a strange mind he had! He tried
to explain Beethoven's sonatas to me. He saw them as absurd, childish stories. But such passion
as there was in him, such profound seriousness! Tears would come to his eyes as he talked.
He would die for the thing he loves. He is, touching and grotesque. Just as I was on the point
of laughing in his face, I wanted to take him to my arms.... He is fundamentally honest, and
has a healthy contempt for the charlatanry of the Parisian groups and their sham reputations,--(though
at the same time he cannot help having the bourgeois admiration for successful men)....

"He had a small legacy. In a few months it was all gone, and, finding himself without resources,
he had, like so many others of his kind, the criminal honesty to marry a girl, also without
resources, whom he had seduced; she had a fine voice, and played music without any love for
it. He had to live on her voice and her mediocre talent until he had learned how to play the
'cello. Naturally it was not long before they saw their mediocrity, and could not bear each
other. They had a little girl. The father transferred his power of illusion to the child, and
thought that she would be what he had failed to be. The little girl took after her mother:
she was made to play the piano, though she had not a shadow of talent; she adored her father,
and applied herself to her work to please him. For several years they plied the hotels in the
watering-places, picking up more insults than money. The child was ailing and overworked, and
died. The wife grew desperate, and became more shrewish every day. So his life became one of
endless misery, with no hope of escape, brightened only by an ideal which he knew himself to
be incapable of attaining....

"And, my dear, when I saw that poor broken devil, whose life has been nothing but a series
of disappointments, I thought: 'That is what I might have been.' There was much in common in
our boyhood, and certain adventures in our two lives are the same; I have even found a certain
kinship in some of our musical ideas: but his have stopped short. What is it that has kept
me from foundering as he has done? My will, no doubt. But also the chances of life. And even
taking my will, is that due only to my merits? Is it not rather due to my descent, my friends,
and God who has aided me?... Such thoughts make a man humble. With such thoughts he feels brotherly
to all who love his art, and suffer for it.

"Prom lowest to highest the distance is not so great....

"On that I thought of what you said in your letter. You are right: an artist has no right to
hold aloof, so long as he can help others. So I shall stay: I shall force myself to spend a
few months in every year here, or in Vienna, or Berlin, although it is hard for me to grow
accustomed to these cities again. But I must not abdicate. If I do not succeed in being of
any great service, as I have good reason to think I shall not, perhaps my sojourn in these
cities will be useful to me, myself. And I shall console myself with the thought that it was
your wish. Besides ... (I will not lie)... I am beginning to find it pleasant. Adieu, tyrant.
You have triumphed. I am beginning not only to do what you want me to do, but to love doing it.

"CHRISTOPHE."

       *       *       *       *       *

So he stayed, partly to please her, but also because his artistic curiosity was reawakened,
and was drawn on to contemplation of the renewal of art. Everything that he saw and did he
presented for Grazia's scrutiny in his letters. He knew that he was deceiving himself as to
the interest she would take in it all; he suspected her of a certain indifference. But he was
grateful to her for not letting him see it too clearly.

She answered him regularly once a fortnight. Affectionate, composed letters, like her gestures.
When she told him of her life she never discarded her tender, proud reserve. She knew the violence
with which her words went resounding through Christophe's heart. She preferred that he should
think her cold, rather than to send him flying to heights whither she did not wish to follow
him. But she was too womanly not to know the secret of not discouraging her friend's love,
and of, at once, by gentle words, soothing the dismay and disappointment caused by her indifferent
words. Christophe soon divined her tactics, and by a counter-trick tried in his turn to control
his warmth and to write more composedly, so that Grazia's replies should not be so studiously
restrained.

The longer he stayed in Paris the greater grew his interest in the new activity stirring in
that gigantic ant-heap. He was the more interested in it all as in the young ants he found
less sympathy with himself. He was not deceived: his success was a Pyrrhic victory. After an
absence of ten years his return had created a sensation in Parisian society. But by an ironic
turn of events, such as is by no means rare, he found himself patronized by his old enemies
the snobs, and people of fashion: the artists were either mutely hostile or distrustful of
him. He won his way by his name, which already belonged to the past, by his considerable accomplishment,
by his tone of passionate conviction, and the violence of his sincerity. But if people were
forced to reckon with him, to admire or respect him, they did not understand or love him. He
was outside the art of the time. A monster, a living anachronism. He had always been that.
His ten years of solitude had accentuated the contrast. During his absence in Europe, and especially
in Paris, a great work of reconstruction had been carried through. A new order was springing
to life. A generation was arising, desirous rather of action than of understanding, hungry
rather for happiness than for truth. It wished to live, to grasp life, even at the cost of
a lie. Lies of pride--all manner of pride: pride of race, pride of caste, pride of religion,
pride of culture and art--all were food to this generation, provided that they were armor of
steel, provided that they could be turned to sword and buckler, and that, sheltered by them,
they could march on to victory.

So to this generation it was distasteful to hear the great voice of torment reminding it of
the existence of sorrow and doubt, those whirlwinds that had troubled the night that was hardly
gone, and, in spite of its denials, went on menacing the universe, the whirlwinds that it wished
to forget. These young people turned away in despite, and they shouted at the top of their
voices to deafen themselves. But the voice was heard above them all. And they were angry.

Christophe, on the other hand, regarded them with a friendly eye. He hailed the upward movement
of the world towards happiness. The deliberate narrowness of its impulse affected him not at
all. When a man wishes to go straight to his goal, he must look straight in front of him. For
his part, sitting at the turning of the world, he was rejoiced to see behind him the tragic
splendor of the night, and, in front of him, the smile of young hope, the uncertain beauty
of the fresh, fevered dawn. And he was at the stationary point of the axis of the pendulum
while the clock was beginning to go again. Without following its onward march, he listened
joyfully to the beating of the rhythm of life. He joined in the hope of those who denied his
past agonies. What would be, would be, as he had dreamed. Ten years before, in night and suffering,
Olivier--the little Gallic cock--had with his frail song announced the distant day. The singer
was no more; but his song was coming to pass. In the garden of Prance the birds were singing.
And, above all the singing, clearer, louder, happier, Christophe suddenly heard the voice of
Olivier come to life again.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was absently reading a book of poems at a bookstall. The name of the author was unknown
to him. Certain words struck him and he went on reading. As he read on between the uncut pages
he seemed to recognize a friendly voice, the features of a friend.... He could not define his
feeling, nor could he bring himself to put the book down, and so he bought it. When he reached
his room he resumed his reading. At once the old obsession descended on him. The impetuous
rhythm of the poem evoked, with a visionary precision, the universe and age-old souls--the
gigantic trees of which we are all the leaves and the fruit--the nations. From the pages there
arose the superhuman figure of the Mother--she who was before us, she who will be after us.
She who reigns, like the Byzantine Madonnas, lofty as the mountains, at whose feet kneel and
pray ant-like human beings. The poet was hymning the homeric struggle of the great goddesses,
whose lances had clashed together since the beginning of the ages: the eternal Iliad which
is to that of Troy what the Alps are to the little hills of Greece.

Such an epic of warlike pride and action was far removed from the ideas of a European soul
like Christophe's. And yet, in gleams, in the vision of the French soul--the graceful virgin,
who bears the Aegis, Athena, with blue eyes shining through the darkness, the goddess of work,
the incomparable artist, sovereign reason, whose glittering lance hurls down the tumultuously
shouting barbarians--Christophe perceived an expression, a smile that he knew and had loved.
But just as he was on the point of fixing it the vision died away. And while he was exasperated
by this vain pursuit, lo! as he turned a page, he came on a story which Olivier had told him
a few days before his death....

He was struck dumb. He ran to the publishers, and asked for the poet's address. It was refused,
as is the custom. He lost his temper. In vain. Finally he remembered that he could find what
he wanted in a year-book. He did find it, and went at once to the author's house. When he wanted
anything he found it impossible to wait.

It was in the Batignolles district on the top floor. There were several doors opening on to
a common landing. Christophe knocked at the door which had been pointed out to him. The next
door opened. A young woman, not at all pretty, very dark, with low-growing hair and a sallow
complexion--a shriveled face with very sharp eyes--asked what he wanted. She looked suspicious.
Christophe told her why he had come, and, in answer to her next question, gave his name. She
came out of her room and opened the other door with a key which she had in her pocket. But
she did not let Christophe enter immediately. She told him to wait in the corridor, and went
in alone, shutting the door in his face. At last Christophe reached the well-guarded sanctum.
He crossed a half-empty room which served as a dining-room and contained only a few shabby
pieces of furniture, while near the curtainless window several birds were twittering in an
aviary. In the next room, on a threadbare divan, lay a man. He sat up to welcome Christophe.
At once Christophe recognized the emaciated face, lit up by the soul, the lovely velvety black
eyes burning with a feverish flame, the long, intelligent hands, the misshapen body, the shrill,
husky voice.... Emmanuel! The little cripple boy who had been the innocent cause.... And Emmanuel,
suddenly rising to his feet, had also recognized Christophe.

They stood for a moment without speaking. Both of them saw Olivier.... They could not bring
themselves to shake hands. Emmanuel had stepped backward. After ten long years, an unconfessed
rancor, the old jealousy that he had had of Christophe, leaped forth from the obscure depths
of instinct. He stood still, defiant and hostile.--But when he saw Christophe's emotion, when
on his lips he read the name that was in their thoughts: "Olivier"--it was stronger than he:
he flung himself into the arms held out towards him.

Emmanuel asked:

"I knew you were in Paris. But how did you find me?"

Christophe said: "I read your last book: through it I heard his voice."

"Yes," said Emmanuel. "You recognized it? I owe everything that I am now to him."

(He avoided pronouncing the name.)

After a moment he went on gloomily:

"He loved you more than me."

Christophe smiled:

"If a man loves truly there is neither more nor less: he gives himself to all those whom he loves."

Emmanuel looked at Christophe: the tragic seriousness of his stubborn eyes was suddenly lit
up with a profound sweetness. He took Christophe's hand and made him sit on the divan by his side.

Each told the story of his life. From fourteen to twenty-five Emmanuel had practised many trades:
printer, upholsterer, pedlar, bookseller's assistant, lawyer's clerk, secretary to a politician,
journalist.... In all of them he had found the means of learning feverishly, here and there
finding the support of good people who were struck by the little man's energy, more often falling
into the hands of people who exploited his poverty and his gifts, turning his worst experiences
to profit, and succeeding in fighting his way through without too much bitterness, leaving
behind him only the remains of his feeble health. His singular aptitude for the dead languages
(not so rare as one is inclined to believe in a race imbued with humanistic traditions) gained
him the interest and support of an old Hellenizing priest. These studies, which he had no time
to push very far, served him as mental discipline and a school of style. This man, who had
risen from the dregs of the people, whose whole education had been won by his own efforts,
haphazard, so that there were great gaps in it, had acquired a gift of verbal expression, a
mastery of thought over form, such as ten years of a university education cannot give to the
young bourgeois. He attributed it all to Olivier. And yet others had helped him more effectively.
But from Olivier came the spark which in the night of this man's soul had lighted the eternal
flame. The rest had but poured oil into the lamp.

He said:

"I only began to understand him from the moment when he passed away. But everything he ever
said had become a part of me. His light never left me."

He spoke of his work and the task which he declared had been left to him by Olivier; the awakening
of the French, the kindling of that torch of heroic idealism of which Olivier had been the
herald: he wished to make himself the resounding voice which should hover above the battlefield
and declare the approaching victory: he sang the epic of the new-birth of his race.

His poems were the product of that strange race that, through the ages, has so strongly preserved
its old Celtic aroma, while it has ever taken a bizarre pride in clothing its ideas with the
cast-off clothes and laws of the Roman conqueror. There were to be found in it absolutely pure
the Gallic audacity, the spirit of heroic reason, of irony, the mixture of braggadocio and
crazy bravura, which set out to pluck the beards of the Roman senators, and pillaged the temple
of Delphi, and laughingly hurled its javelins at the sky. But this little Parisian dwarf had
had to shape his passions, as his periwigged grandfathers had done, and as no doubt his great-grandnephews
would do, in the bodies of the heroes and gods of Greece, two thousand years dead. It is a
curious instinct in these people which accords well with their need of the absolute: as they
impose their ideas on the remains of the ages, they seem to themselves to be imposing them
on the ages. The constraint of his classic form only gave Emmanuel's passions a more violent
impulse. Olivier's calm confidence in the destinies of France had been transformed in his little
protege into a burning faith, hungering for action and sure of triumph. He willed it, he said
it, he clamored for it. It was by his exalted faith and his optimism that he had uplifted the
souls of the French public. His book had been as effective as a battle. He had made a breach
in the ranks of skepticism and fear. The whole younger generation had thronged to follow him
towards the new destiny....

He grew excited as he talked: his eyes burned, his pale face glowed pink in patches, and his
voice rose to a scream. Christophe could not help noticing the contrast between the devouring
fire and the wretched body that was its pyre. He was only half-conscious of the irony of this
stroke of fate. The singer of energy, the poet who hymned the generation of intrepid sport,
of action, war, could hardly walk without losing his breath, was extremely temperate, lived
on a strict diet, drank water, could not smoke, lived without women, bore every passion in
his body, and was reduced by his health to asceticism.

Christophe watched Emmanuel, and he felt a mixture of admiration and brotherly pity. He tried
not to show it: but no doubt his eyes betrayed his feeling. Emmanuel's pride, which ever kept
an open wound in his side, made him think he read commiseration in Christophe's eyes, and that
was more odious to him than hatred. The fire in him suddenly died down. He stopped talking.
Christophe tried in vain to win back his confidence. His soul had closed up. Christophe saw
that he was wounded.

The hostile silence dragged on. Christophe got up. Emmanuel took him to the door without a
word. His step declared his infirmity: he knew it: it was a point of pride with him to appear
indifferent: but he thought Christophe was watching him, and his rancor grew.

Just as he was coldly shaking hands with his guest, and saying good-by, an elegant young lady
rang at the door. She was escorted by a pretentious nincompoop whom Christophe recognized as
a man he had seen at theatrical first-nights, smiling, chattering, waving his hand, kissing
the hands of the ladies, and from his stall shedding smiles all over the theater: not knowing
his name, he had called him "the buck."--The buck and his companion, on seeing Emmanuel, flung
themselves on the "cher maitre" with obsequious and familiar effusiveness. As Christophe walked
away he heard Emmanuel in his dry voice saying that he was too busy to see any one. He admired
the man's gift of being disagreeable. He did not know Emmanuel's reasons for scowling at the
rich snobs who came to gratify him with their indiscreet visits; they were prodigal of fine
phrases and eulogy; but they no more thought of helping him in his poverty than the famous
friends of Cesar Franck ever dreamed of releasing him from the piano-lessons which he had to
give up to the last to make a living.

Christophe went several times again to see Emmanuel. He never succeeded in restoring the intimacy
of his first visit. Emmanuel showed no pleasure in seeing him, and maintained a suspicious
reserve. Every now and then he would be carried away by the generous need of expansion of his
genius: a remark of Christophe's would shake him to the very roots of his being: then he would
abandon himself to a fit of enthusiastic confidence: and over his secret soul his idealism
would cast the glowing light of a flashing poetry. Then, suddenly, he would fall back: he would
shrivel up into sulky silence: and Christophe would find him hostile once more.

They were divided by too many things. Not the least was the difference in their ages. Christophe
was on the way to full consciousness and mastery of himself. Emmanuel was still in process
of formation and more chaotic than Christophe had ever been. The originality of his face came
from the contradictory elements that were at grips in him; a mighty stoicism, struggling to
tame a nature consumed by atavistic desires,--(he was the son of a drunkard and a prostitute);--a
frantic imagination which tugged against the bit of a will of steel; an immense egoism, and
an immense love for others, and of the two it were impossible to tell which would be the conqueror;
an heroic idealism and a morbid thirst for glory which made him impatient of other superiorities.
If Olivier's ideas, and his independence, and his disinterestedness were in him, if Emmanuel
was superior to his master by his plebeian vitality which knew not disgust in the face of action,
by his poetic genius and his thicker skin, which protected him from disgust of all kinds, yet
he was very far from reaching the serenity of Antoinette's brother: his character was vain
and uneasy: and the restlessness of other people only augmented his own.

He lived in a stormy alliance with a young woman who was his neighbor, the woman who had received
Christophe on his first visit. She loved Emmanuel, and was jealously busy over him, looked
after his house, copied out his work, and wrote to his dictation. She was not beautiful, and
she bore the burden of a passionate soul. She came of the people, and for a long time worked
in a bookbinding workshop, then in the post-office. Her childhood had been spent in the stifling
atmosphere common to all the poor workpeople of Paris: souls and bodies all huddled together,
harassing work, perpetual promiscuity, no air, no silence, never any solitude, no opportunity
for recuperation or of defending the inner sanctuary of the heart. She was proud in spirit,
with her mind ever seething with a religious fervor for a confused ideal of truth. Her eyes
were worn out with copying out at night, sometimes without a lamp, by moonlight, Les Miserables
of Hugo. She had met Emmanuel at a time when he was more unhappy than she, ill and without
resources; and she had devoted herself to him. This passion was the first, the only living
love of her life. So she attached herself to him with a hungry tenacity. Her affection was
a terrible trial to Emmanuel, who rather submitted to than shared it. He was touched by her
devotion: he knew that she was his best friend, the only creature to whom he was everything,
who could not do without him. But this very feeling overwhelmed him. He needed liberty and
isolation; her eyes always greedily beseeching a look obsessed him: he used to speak harshly
to her, and longed to say: "Go!" He was irritated by her ugliness and her clumsy manners. Though
he had seen but little of fashionable society, and though he heartily despised it,--(for he
suffered at appearing even uglier and more ridiculous there),--he was sensitive to elegance,
and alive to the attraction of women who felt towards him (he had no doubt of it) exactly as
he felt towards his friend. He tried to show her an affection which he did not possess or,
at least, which was continually obscured by gusts of involuntary hatred. He could not do it:
he had a great generous heart in his bosom, hungering to do good, and also a demon of violence,
capable of much evil. This inward struggle and his consciousness of his inability to end it
to his advantage plunged him into a state of acute irritation, which he vented on Christophe.

Emmanuel could not help feeling a double antipathy towards Christophe; firstly because of his
old jealousy (one of those childish passions which still subsist, though we may forget the
cause of them): secondly, because of his fierce nationalism. In France he had embodied all
the dreams of justice, pity, and human brotherhood conceived by the best men of the preceding
age. He did not set France against the rest of Europe as an enemy whose fortune is swelled
by the ruin of the other nations, but placed her at their head, as the legitimate sovereign
who reigns for the good of all--the sword of the ideal, the guide of the human race. Rather
than see her commit an injustice he would have preferred to see her dead. But he had no doubt
of her. He was exclusively French in culture and in heart, nourished wholly by the French tradition,
the profound reasons of which he found in his own instinct. Quite sincerely he ignored foreign
thought, for which he had a sort of disdainful condescension,--and was exasperated if a foreigner
did not accept his lowly position.

Christophe saw all that, but, being older and better versed in life, he did not worry about
it. If such pride of race could not but be injurious, Christophe was not touched by it: he
could appreciate the illusions of filial love, and never dreamed of criticising the exaggerations
of a sacred feeling. Besides, humanity is profited by the vain belief of the nations in their
mission. Of all the reasons at hand for feeling himself estranged from Emmanuel only one hurt
him: Emmanuel's voice, which at times rose to a shrill, piercing scream. Christophe's ears
suffered cruelly. He could not help making a face when it happened. He tried to prevent Emmanuel's
seeing it. He endeavored to hear the music and not the instrument. There was such a beauty
of heroism shining forth from the crippled poet when he evoked the victories of the mind, the
forerunners of other victories, the conquest of the air, the "flying God" who should upraise
the peoples, and, like the star of Bethlehem, lead them in his train, in ecstasies, towards
far distant spaces or near revenge. The splendor of these visions of energy did not prevent
Christophe's seeing their danger, and foreknowing whither this change and the growing clamor
of the new Marseillaise would lead. He thought, with a little irony, (with no regret for past
or fear of the future), that the song would find an echo that the singer could not foresee,
and that a day would come when men would sigh for the vanished days of the Market-Place.--How
free they were then! The golden age of liberty! Never would its like be known again. The world
was moving on to the age of strength, of health, of virile action, and perhaps of glory, but
also of harsh authority and narrow order. We shall have called it enough with our prayers,
the age of iron, the classic age! The great classic ages--Louis XIV. or Napoleon--seem now
at a distance the peaks of humanity. And perhaps the nation therein most victoriously realized
its ideal State. But go and ask the heroes of those times what they thought of them! Your Nicolas
Poussin went to live and die in Rome; he was stifled in your midst. Your Pascal, your Racine,
said farewell to the world. And among the greatest, how many others lived apart in disgrace,
and oppressed! Even the soul of a man like Moliere hid much bitterness.--For your Napoleon,
whom you so greatly regret, your fathers do not seem to have had any doubt as to their happiness,
and the master himself was under no illusion; he knew that when he disappeared the world would
say: "Ouf!"... What a wilderness of thought surrounds the Imperator! Over the immensity of
the sands, the African sun....

Christophe did not say all that was in his mind. A few hints were enough to set Emmanuel in
a fury, and he did not try the experiment again. But it was in vain that he kept his thoughts
to himself: Emmanuel knew what he was thinking. More than that, he was obscurely conscious
that Christophe saw farther than he. And he was only irritated by it. Young people never forgive
their elders for forcing them to see what they will see in twenty years' time.

Christophe read his heart, and said to himself:

"He is right. Every man his own faith. A man must believe what he believes. God keep me from
disturbing his confidence in the future!"

But his mere presence upset Emmanuel. When two personalities are together, however hard they
try to efface themselves, one always crushes the other, and the other always feels rancor and
humiliation. Emmanuel's pride was hurt by Christophe's superiority in experience and character.
And perhaps also he was keeping back the love which he felt growing in himself for him.

He became more and more shy. He locked his door, and did not answer letters.--Christophe had
to give up seeing him.

       *       *       *       *       *

During the first days of July Christophe reckoned up what he had gained by his few months'
stay in Paris: many new ideas, but few friends. Brilliant and derisory successes, in which
he saw his own image and the image of his work weakened or caricatured in mediocre minds; and
there is but scant pleasure in that. And he failed to win the sympathy of those by whom he
would have loved to be understood; they had not welcomed his advances; he could not throw in
his lot with them, however much he desired to share their hopes and to be their ally; it was
as though their uneasy vanity shunned his friendship and found more satisfaction in having
him for an enemy. In short, he had let the tide of his own generation pass without passing
with it, and the tide of the next generation would have nothing to do with him. He was isolated,
and was not surprised, for all his life he had been accustomed to it. But now he thought he
had won the right, after this fresh attempt, to return to his Swiss hermitage, until he had
realized a project which for some time past had been taking shape. As he grew older he was
tormented with the desire to return and settle down in his own country. He knew nobody there,
and would find even less intellectual kinship than in this foreign city: but none the less
it was his country: you do not ask those of your blood to think your thoughts: between them
and you there are a thousand secret ties; the senses learned to read in the same book of sky
and earth, and the heart speaks the same language.

He gaily narrated his disappointments to Grazia, and told her of his intention of returning
to Switzerland: jokingly he asked her permission to leave Paris, and assured her that he was
going during the following week. But at the end of the letter there was a postscript saying:

"I have changed my mind. My departure is postponed."

Christophe had entire confidence in Grazia: he gave into her hands the secret of his inmost
thoughts. And yet there was a room in his heart of which he kept the key: it contained the
memories which did not belong only to himself, but to those whom he had loved. He kept back
everything concerning Olivier. His reserve was not deliberate. The words would not come from
his lips whenever he tried to talk to Grazia about Olivier. She had never known him....

Now, on the morning when he was writing to his friend, there came a knock on the door. He went
to open it, cursing at being interrupted. A boy of fourteen or fifteen asked for M. Krafft.
Christophe gruffly bade him come in. He was fair, with blue eyes, fine features, not very tall,
with a slender, erect figure. He stood in front of Christophe, rather shyly, and said not a
word. Quickly he pulled himself together, and raised his limpid eyes, and looked at him with
keen interest. Christophe smiled as he scanned the boy's charming face, and the boy smiled too.

"Well?" said Christophe. "What do you want?"

"I came," said the boy....

(And once more he became confused, blushed, and was silent.)

"I can see that you have come," said Christophe, laughing. "But why have you come? Look at
me. Are you afraid of me?"

The boy smiled once more, shook his head, and said:

"No."

"Bravo! Then tell me who you are."

"I am...." said the boy.

He stopped once more. His eyes wandered curiously round the room, and lighted on a photograph
of Olivier on the mantelpiece.

"Come!" said Christophe. "Courage!"

The boy said:

"I am his son."

Christophe started: he got up from his chair, took hold of the boy's arm, and drew him to him;
he sank back into his chair and held him in a close embrace: their faces almost touched; and
he gazed and gazed at him, saying:

"My boy.... My poor boy...."

Suddenly he took his face in his hands and kissed his brow, eyes, cheeks, nose, hair. The boy
was frightened and shocked by such a violent demonstration, and broke away from him. Christophe
let him go. He hid his face in his hand, and leaned his brow against the wall, and sat so for
the space of a few moments. The boy had withdrawn to the other end of the room. Christophe
raised his head. His face was at rest: he looked at the boy with an affectionate smile.

"I frightened you," he said. "Forgive me.... You see, I loved him."

The boy was still frightened, and said nothing.

"How like you are to him!" said Christophe.... "And yet I should not have recognized you. What
is it that has changed?..."

He asked:

"What is your name?"

"Georges."

"Oh! yes. I remember. Christophe Olivier Georges.... How old are you?"

"Fourteen."

"Fourteen! Is it so long ago?... It is as though it were yesterday--or far back in the darkness
of time.... How like you are to him! The same features. It is the same, and yet another. The
same colored eyes, but not the same eyes. The same smile, the same lips, but not the same voice.
You are stronger. You hold yourself more erect: your face is fuller, but you blush just as
he used to do. Come, sit down, let us talk. Who sent you to me?"

"No one."

"You came of your own accord? How do you know about me?"

"People have talked to me about you."

"Who?"

"My mother."

"Ah!" said Christophe. "Does she know that you came to see me?"

"No."

Christophe said nothing for a moment; then he asked:

"Where do you live?"

"Near the Parc Monceau."

"You walked here? Yes? It is a long way. You must be tired."

"I am never tired."

"Good! Show me your arms."

(He felt them.)

"You are a strong boy.... What put it into your head to come and see me?"

"My father loved you more than any one."

"Did she tell you so?"

(He corrected himself.)

"Did your mother tell you so?"

"Yes."

Christophe smiled pensively. He thought: "She too!... How they all loved him! Why did they
not let him see it?..."

He went on:

"Why did you wait so long before you came?"

"I wanted to come sooner. But I thought you would not want to see me."

"I!"

"I saw you several weeks ago at the Chevillard concerts: I was with my mother, sitting a little
away from you: I bowed to you: you looked through me, and frowned, and took no notice."

"I looked at you?... My poor boy, how could you think that?... I did not see you. My eyes are
tired. That is why I frown.... You don't think me so cruel as that?"

"I think you could be cruel too, if you wanted to be."

"Really?" said Christophe. "In that case, if you thought I did not want to see you, how did
you dare to come?"

"Because I wanted to see you."

"And if I had refused to see you?"

"I shouldn't have let you do that." He said this with a little decided air, at once shy and
provoking.

Christophe burst out laughing, and Georges laughed too.

"You would have sent me packing! Think of that! You rogue!... No, decidedly, you are not like
your father."

A shadow passed over the boy's mobile face.

"You think I am not like him? But you said, just now...? You don't think he would have loved
me? You don't love me?"

"What difference does it make to you whether I love you or not?"

"A great deal of difference."

"Because...?"

"Because I love you."

In a moment his eyes, his lips, all his features, took on a dozen different expressions, like
the shadows of the clouds on an April day chasing over the fields before the spring winds.
Christophe had the most lovely joy in gazing at him and listening to him; it seemed to him
that all the cares of the past were washed away; his sorrowful experiences, his trials, his
sufferings and Olivier's sufferings, all were wiped out: he was born again in this young shoot
of Olivier's life.

They talked on. Georges knew nothing of Christophe's music until the last few months, but since
Christophe had been in Paris, he had never missed a concert at which his work was played. He
spoke of it with an eager expression, his eyes shining and laughing, with the tears not far
behind: he was like a lover. He told Christophe that he adored music, and that he wanted to
be a composer. But after a question or two, Christophe saw that the boy knew not even the elements
of music. He asked about his work. Young Jeannin was at the lycee; he said cheerfully that
he was not a good scholar.

"What are you best at? Literature or science?"

"Very much the same."

"What? What? Are you a dunce?"

The boy laughed frankly and said:

"I think so."

Then he added confidentially:

"But I know that I am not, all the same."

Christophe could not help laughing.

"Then why don't you work? Aren't you interested in anything?"

"No. I'm interested in everything."

"Well, then, why?"

"Everything is so interesting that there is no time...."

"No time? What the devil do you do?"

He made a vague gesture:

"Many things. I play music, and games, and I go to exhibitions. I read...."

"You would do better to read your school-books."

"We never read anything interesting in school.... Besides, we travel. Last month I went to
England to see the Oxford and Cambridge match."

"That must help your work a great deal!"

"Bah! You learn much more that way than by staying at the lycee."

"And what does your mother say to that?"

"Mother is very reasonable. She does whatever I want."

"You bad boy!... You can thank your stars I am not your father...."

"You wouldn't have had a chance...."

It was impossible to resist his banter.

"Tell me, you traveler," said Christophe. "Do you know my country?"

"Yes."

"I bet you don't know a word of German."

"Yes, I do. I know it quite well."

"Let us see."

They began to talk German. The boy jabbered on quite ungrammatically with the most droll coolness;
he was very intelligent and wide awake, and guessed more than he understood: often he guessed
wrong; but he was the first to laugh at his mistakes. He talked eagerly about his travels and
his reading. He had read a great deal, hastily, superficially, skipping half the pages, and
inventing what he had left unread, but he was always urged on by a keen curiosity, forever
seeking reasons for enthusiasm. He jumped from one subject to another, and his face grew animated
as he talked of plays or books that had moved him. There was no sort of order in his knowledge.
It was impossible to tell how he could read right through a tenth-rate book, and yet know nothing
of the greatest masterpieces.

"That is all very well," said Christophe. "But you will never do anything if you do not work."

"Oh! I don't need to. We are rich."

"The devil! Then it is a very serious state of things. Do you want to be a man who does nothing
and is good for nothing?"

"No. I should like to do everything. It is stupid to shut yourself up all your life in a profession."

"But it is the only means yet discovered of doing any good."

"So they say!"

"What do you mean? 'So they say!'... I say so. I've been working at my profession for forty
years, and I am just beginning to get a glimmer of it."

"Forty years, to learn a profession! When can you begin to practise it?"

Christophe began to laugh.

"You little disputatious Frenchman!"

"I want to be a musician," said Georges.

"Well, it is not too early for you to begin. Shall I teach you?"

"Oh! I should be so glad!"

"Come to-morrow. I'll see what you are worth. If you are worth nothing, I shall forbid you
ever to lay hands on a piano. If you have a real inclination for it, we'll try and make something
of you.... But, I warn you, I shall make you work."

"I will work," said Georges delightedly.

They said good-by until the morrow. As he was going, Georges remembered that he had other engagements
on the morrow, and also for the day after. Yes, he was not free until the end of the week.
They arranged day and hour.

But when the day and hour came, Christophe waited in vain. He was disappointed. He had been
looking forward with childlike glee to seeing Georges again. His unexpected visit had brightened
his life. It had made him so happy, and moved him so much that he had not slept the night after
it. With tender gratitude he thought of the young friend who had sought him out for his friend's
sake. His natural grace, his malicious and ingenuous frankness had delighted him: he sank back
into the mute intoxication, the buzzing of happiness, which had filled his ears and his heart
during the first days of his friendship with Olivier. It was allied now with a graver and almost
religious feeling which, through the living, saw the smile of the past.--He waited all the
next day and the day after. Nobody came. Not even a letter of excuse. Christophe was very mournful,
and cast about for excuses for the boy. He did not know where to write to him, and he did not
know his address. Had he had it he would not have dared to write. When the heart of an older
man is filled with love for a young creature, he feels a certain modesty about letting him
see the need he has of him: he knows that the young man has not the same need: they are not
evenly matched: and nothing is so much dreaded as to seem to be imposing oneself on a person
who cares not a jot.

The silence dragged on. Although Christophe suffered under it, he forced himself to take no
step to hunt up the Jeannins. But every day he expected the boy, who never came. He did not
go to Switzerland, but stayed through the summer in Paris. He thought himself absurd, but he
had no taste for traveling. Only when September came did he decide to spend a few days at Fontainebleau.

About the end of October Georges Jeannin came and knocked at his door. He excused himself calmly,
without being in the least put out by his long silence.

"I could not come," he said. "And then we went away to stay in Brittany."

"You might have written to me," said Christophe.

"Yes. I did try. But I never had the time.... Besides," he said, laughing, "I forgot all about it."

"When did you come back?"

"At the beginning of October."

"And it has taken you three weeks to come?... Listen. Tell me frankly: Did your mother prevent
you?... Does she dislike your seeing me?"

"No. Not at all. She told me to come to-day."

"What?"

"The last time I saw you before the holidays I told her everything when I got home. She told
me I had done right, and she asked about you, and pestered me with a great many questions.
When we came home from Brittany, three weeks ago, she made me promise to go and see you again.
A week ago she reminded me again. This morning, when she found that I had not been, she was
angry with me, and wanted me to go directly after breakfast, without more ado."

"And aren't you ashamed to tell me that? Must you be forced to come and see me?"

"No. You mustn't think that.... Oh! I have annoyed you. Forgive me.... I am a muddle-headed
idiot.... Scold me, but don't be angry with me. I love you. If I did not love you I should
not have come. I was not forced to come. I can't be forced to do anything but what I want to do."

"You rascal!" said Christophe, laughing in spite of himself. "And your musical projects, what
about them?"

"Oh! I am still thinking about it."

"That won't take you very far."

"I want to begin now. I couldn't begin these last few months. I have had so much to do! But
now you shall see how I will work, if you still want to have anything to do with me...."

(He looked slyly at Christophe.)

"You are an impostor," said Christophe.

"You don't take me seriously."

"No, I don't."

"It is too dreadful. Nobody takes me seriously. I lose all heart."

"I shall take you seriously when I see you working."

"At once, then."

"I have no time now. To-morrow."

"No. To-morrow is too far off. I can't bear you to despise me for a whole day."

"You bore me."

"Please!..."

Smiling at his weakness, Christophe made him sit at the piano, and talked to him about music.
He asked him many questions, and made him solve several little problems of harmony. Georges
did not know much about it, but his musical instinct supplied the gaps of his ignorance; without
knowing their names, he found the chords Christophe wanted; and even his mistakes in their
awkwardness showed a curiosity of taste and a singularly acute sensibility. He did not accept
Christophe's remarks without discussion; and the intelligent questions he asked in his turn
bore witness to the sincerity of a mind that would not accept art as a devout formula to be
repeated with the lips, but desired to live it for its own sake.--They did not only talk of
music. In reference to harmony Georges would summon up pictures, the country, people. It was
difficult to hold him in check: it was constantly necessary to bring him back to the middle
of the road: and Christophe had not always the heart to do so. It amused him to hear the boy's
joyous chatter, so full of wit and life. What a difference there was between his nature and
Olivier's! With the one life was a subterranean river that flowed silently; with the other
all was above ground: a capricious stream disporting itself in the sun. And yet it was the
same lovely, pure water, like their eyes. With a smile, Christophe recognized in Georges certain
instinctive antipathies, likings and dislikings, which he well knew, and the naive intolerance,
the generosity of heart which gives itself entirely to whatsoever it loves.... Only Georges
loved so many things that he had no time to love any one thing for long.

He came back the next day and the days following. He was filled with a youthful passion for
Christophe, and he worked enthusiastically at his lessons....--Then his enthusiasm palled,
his visits grew less frequent. He came less and less often. Then he came no more, and disappeared
for weeks.

He was light-hearted, forgetful, naively selfish, and sincerely affectionate; he had a good
heart and a quick intelligence which he expended piecemeal day by day. People forgave him everything
because they were so glad to see him; he was happy....

Christophe refused to judge him. He did not complain. He wrote to Jacqueline to thank her for
having sent her son to him. Jacqueline replied with a short letter filled with restrained emotion:
she expressed a hope that Christophe would be interested in Georges and help him in his life.
Through shame and pride she could not bring herself to see him again. And Christophe thought
he could not visit her without being invited.--So they stayed apart, seeing each other at a
distance at concerts, bound together only by the boy's infrequent visits.

The winter passed. Grazia wrote but seldom. She was still faithful in her friendship for Christophe.
But, like a true Italian, she was hardly at all sentimental, attached to reality, and needed
to see people if she were, perhaps not to think of them, but certainly to take pleasure in
talking to them. Her heart's memory needed to be supported by having her sight's memory refreshed
from time to time. Her letters became brief and distant. She was as sure of Christophe as Christophe
was of her. But their security gave out more light than warmth.

Christophe did not feel his new disappointments very keenly. His musical activity was enough
to fill his life. When he reaches a certain age a vigorous artist lives much more in his art
than in his life; his life has become the dream, his art the reality. His creative powers had
been reawakened by contact with Paris. There is no stronger stimulant in the world than the
sight of that city of work. The most phlegmatic natures are touched by its fever. Christophe,
being rested by years of healthy solitude, brought to his work an enormous accumulation of
force. Enriched by the new conquests forever being made in the fields of musical technique
by the intrepid curiosity of the French, he hurled himself in his turn along the road to discovery:
being more violent and barbarous than they, he went farther. But nothing in his new audacities
was left to the hazardous mercies of his instinct. Christophe had begun to feel the need of
clarity; all his life his genius had obeyed the rhythm of alternate currents: it was its law
to pass from one pole to the other, and to fill everything between them. Having greedily surrendered
in his last period to "the eyes of chaos shining through the veil of order," even to rending
the veil so as to see them more clearly, he was now striving to tear himself away from their
fascination, and once more to throw over the face of the sphinx the magic net of the master
mind. The imperial inspiration of Rome had passed over him. Like the Parisian art of that time,
by the spirit of which he was infected, he was aspiring to order. But not--like the reactionaries
who spent what was left of their energies in protecting their slumber--to order in Varsovia;
the good people who are always going back to Brahms--the Brahmses of all the arts, the thematics,
the insipid neo-classics, in search of solace! Might one not say that they are enfeebled with
passion! You are soon done for, my friends.... No, it is not of your order that I speak. Mine
has no kinship with yours. Mine is the order in harmony of the free passions and the free will....
Christophe was studying how in his art to maintain the just balance between the forces of life.
These new chords, the new musical daimons that he had summoned from the abyss of sounds, were
used to build clear symphonies, vast, sunlit buildings, like the Italian cupola'd basilicas.

These plays and battles of the mind occupied him all winter. And the winter passed quickly,
although, in the evening, as he ended his day's work and looked behind him at the tale of days,
he could not have told whether it had been long or short, or whether he was still young or
very old.

Then a new ray of human sunshine pierced the veil of his dreams, and once more brought in the
springtime. Christophe received a letter from Grazia, telling him that she was coming to Paris
with her two children. For a long time she had planned to do so. Her cousin Colette had often
invited her. Her dread of the effort necessary to interrupt her habits and to tear herself
away from her careless tranquillity and the home she loved in order to plunge into the Parisian
whirligig that she knew so well, had made her postpone the journey from year to year. This
spring she was filled with melancholy, perhaps with a secret disappointment--(how many unspoken
romances there are in the heart of a woman, unknown to others, often unconfessed to herself!)--and
she longed to go right away from Rome. A threatened epidemic gave her an excuse for hurrying
on her children's departure. She followed her letter to Christophe in a very few days.

Christophe hastened to her as soon as he heard she was at Colette's. He found her still absorbed
and distant. He was hurt, but did not show it. By now he was almost rid of his egoism, and
that gave him the insight of affection. He saw that she had some grief which she wished to
conceal, and he suppressed his longing to know its nature. Only he strove to keep her amused
by giving her a gay account of his misadventures and sharing with her his work and his plans,
and he wrapped her round with his affection. Her mournful heart rested in the heart of her
friend, and he spoke to her always of things other than that which was in both their minds.
And gradually he saw the shadow of melancholy fade from her eyes, and their expression became
nearly, and ever more nearly, intimate. So much so, that one day, as he was talking to her,
he stopped suddenly, and in silence looked at her.

"What is it?" she asked.

"To-day," he said, "you have come back to me."

She smiled, and in a low voice she replied:

"Yes."

It was not easy for them to talk quietly together. They were very rarely alone. Colette gave
them the pleasure of her presence more often than they wished. In spite of her eccentricities
she was extremely kind and sincerely attached to Grazia and Christophe; but she never dreamed
that she could be a nuisance to them. She had, of course, noticed--(for her eyes saw everything)--what
she was pleased to call Christophe's flirtation with Grazia; flirtation was her element, and
she was delighted, and asked nothing better than to encourage it. But that was precisely what
she was not required to do; she was only desired not to meddle with things that did not concern
her. It was enough for her to appear or to make an (indiscreet) discreet allusion to their
friendship to one of them, to make Christophe and Grazia freeze and turn the conversation.
Colette cast about among all the possible reasons, except one, and that the true one, for their
reserve. Fortunately for them, she could never stay long. She was always coming and going,
coming in, going out, superintending everything in her house, doing a dozen things at a time.
In the intervals between her appearances Christophe and Grazia, left alone with the children,
would resume the thread of their innocent conversation. They never spoke of the feelings that
bound them together. Unrestrainedly they confided to each other their little daily happenings.
Grazia, with feminine interest, inquired into Christophe's domestic affairs. They were in a
very bad way: he was always having ruptures with his housekeepers; he was continually being
cheated and robbed by his servants. She laughed heartily but very kindly, and with motherly
compassion for the great child's small practical sense. One day, when Colette left them after
a longer visitation than usual, Grazia sighed:

"Poor Colette! I love her dearly.... But how she bores me!"

"I love her too," said Christophe, "if you mean by that that she bores us."

Grazia laughed:

"Listen. Will you let me ... (it is quite impossible for us to talk in peace here) ... will
you let me come to your house one day?"

He could hardly speak.

"To my house! You will come?"

"If you don't mind?"

"Mind! Mercy, no!"

"Well, then, will you let me come on Tuesday?"

"Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, any day you like."

"Tuesday, at four. It is agreed?"

"How good of you! How good of you!"

"Wait. There is a condition."

"A condition? Why? Anything you like. You know that I will do it, condition or no condition."

"I would rather make a condition."

"I promise."

"You don't know what it is."

"I don't care. I promise. Anything you like."

"But listen. You are so obstinate."

"Tell me!"

"The condition is that between now and then you make no change in your rooms--none, you understand;
everything must be left exactly as it is."

Christophe's face fell. He looked abject.

"Ah! That's not playing the game."

"You see, that's what comes of giving your word too hastily! But you promised."

"But why do you want--?

"But I want to see you in your rooms as you are, every day, when you are not expecting me."

"Surely you will let me--"

"Nothing at all. I shall allow nothing."

"At least--"

"No, no, no! I won't listen to you, or else I won't come, if you prefer it--"

"You know I would agree to anything if you will only come."

"Then you promise."

"Yes."

"On your word of honor?"

"Yes, you tyrant."

"A good tyrant."

"There is no such thing as a good tyrant: there are tyrants whom one loves and tyrants whom
one detests."

"And I am both?"

"No. You are one of the first."

"It is very humiliating."

On the appointed day she came. With scrupulous loyalty Christophe had not dared even to arrange
the smallest piece of paper in his untidy rooms: he would have felt dishonored had he done
so. But he was in torture. He was ashamed of what his friend would think. Anxiously he awaited
her arrival. She came punctually, not more than four or five minutes after the hour. She climbed
up the stairs with her light, firm step. She rang. He was at the door and opened it. She was
dressed with easy, graceful elegance. Through her veil he could see her tranquil eyes. They
said "Good-day" in a whisper and shook hands; she was more silent than usual: he was awkward
and emotional and said nothing, to avoid showing his feeling. He led her in without uttering
the sentence he had prepared by way of excusing the untidiness of his room. She sat down in
the best chair, and he sat near her.

"This is my work-room."

It was all he could find to say to her.

There was a silence. She looked round slowly, with a kindly smile, and she, too, was much moved,
though she would not admit it to herself. (Later she told him that when she was a girl she
had thought of coming to him, but had been afraid as she reached the door.) She was struck
by the solitary aspect and the sadness of the place: the dark, narrow hall, the absolute lack
of comfort, the visible poverty, all went to her heart: she was filled with affectionate pity
for her old friend, who, in spite of all his work and his sufferings and his celebrity, was
unable to shake free of material anxiety. And at the same time she was amused at the absolute
indifference revealed by the bareness of the room that had no carpets, no pictures, no bric-a-brac,
no armchair; no other furniture than a table, three hard chairs, and a piano: and papers, papers
everywhere, mixed up with books, on the table, under the table, on the floor, on the piano,
on the chairs--(she smiled as she thought how conscientiously he had kept his word).

After a minute or two she asked him, pointing to his place at the table:

"Is that where you work?"

"No," he said. "There."

He pointed to the darkest corner of the room, where there stood a low chair with its back to
the light. She went and sat in it quietly, without a word. For a few minutes they were silent,
for they knew not what to say. He got up and went to the piano. He played and improvised for
half an hour; all around him he felt the presence of his beloved and an immense happiness filled
his heart; with eyes closed he played marvelous things. Then she understood the beauty of the
room, all furnished with divine harmonies: she heard his loving, suffering heart as though
it were beating in her own bosom.

When the music had died away, he stopped for a little while, quite still, at the piano; then
he turned as he heard the breath of his beloved and knew that she was weeping. She came to him.

"Thank you!" she murmured, and took his hand.

Her lips were trembling a little. She closed her eyes. He did the same. For a few seconds they
remained so, hand in hand; and time stopped; it seemed to them that for ages, ages, they had
been lying pressed close together.

She opened her eyes, and to shake off her emotion, she asked:

"May I see the rest of the flat?"

Glad also to escape from his emotions, he opened the door into the next room; but at once he
was ashamed. It contained a narrow, hard iron bed.

On the wall there was a cast of the mask of Beethoven, and near the bed, in a cheap frame,
photographs of his mother and Olivier. On the dressing-table was another photograph: Grazia
herself as a child of fifteen. He had found it in her album in Rome, and had stolen it. He
confessed it, and asked her to forgive him. She looked at the face, and said:

"Can you recognize me in it?"

"I can recognize you, and remember you."

"Which of the two do you love best?" she asked, pointing to herself.

"You are always the same. I love you always just the same. I recognize you everywhere. Even
in the photograph of you as a tiny child. You do not know the emotion I feel as in this chrysalis
I discern your soul. Nothing so clearly assures me that you are eternal. I loved you before
you were born, and I shall love you ever after...."

He stopped. She stood still and made no answer: she was filled with the sweet sorrow of love.
When she returned to the work-room, and he had shown her through the window his little friendly
tree, full of chattering sparrows, she said:

"Now, do you know what we will do? We will have a feast. I brought tea and cakes because I
knew you would have nothing of the kind. And I brought something else. Give me your overcoat."

"My overcoat?"

"Yes. Give it me."

She took needles and cotton from her bag.

"What are you going to do?"

"There were two buttons the other day which made me tremble for their fate. Where are they now?"

"True. I never thought of sewing them on. It is so tiresome!"

"Poor boy! Give it me."

"I am ashamed."

"Go and make tea."

He brought the kettle and the spirit-lamp into the room, so as not to miss a moment of his
friend's stay. As she sewed she watched his clumsy ways stealthily and maliciously. They drank
their tea out of cracked cups, which she thought horrible, dodging the cracks, while he indignantly
defended them, because they reminded him of his life with Olivier.

Just as she was going, he asked:

"You are not angry with me?"

"Why should I be?"

"Because of the litter here?"

She laughed.

"I will make it tidy."

As she reached the threshold and was just going to open the door, he knelt and kissed her feet.

"What are you doing?" she said. "You foolish, foolish dear! Good-by!"

They agreed that she should come once a week on a certain day. She had made him promise that
there should be no more outbursts, no more kneelings, no more kissing of her feet. She breathed
forth such a gentle tranquillity, that even when Christophe was in his most violent mood, he
was influenced by it; and although when he was alone, he often thought of her with passionate
desire, when they were together they were always like good comrades. Never did word or gesture
escape him which could disturb his friend's peace.

On Christophe's birthday she dressed her little girl as she herself had been when they first
met in the old days; and she made the child play the piece that Christophe used to make her play.

But all her grace and tenderness and sweet friendship were mingled with contradictory feelings.
She was frivolous, and loved society, and delighted in being courted, even by fools; she was
a coquette, except with Christophe,--even with Christophe. When he was very tender with her,
she would be deliberately cold and reserved. When he was cold and reserved she would become
tender and tease him affectionately. She was the most honest of women. But even in the most
honest and the best of women there is always a girl. She insisted on standing well with the
world, and conformed to the conventions. She had fine musical gifts, and understood Christophe's
work; but she was not much interested in it--(and he knew it).--To a true Latin woman, art
is of worth only in proportion as it leads back to life, to life and love.... The love which
is forever seething, slumbering, in the depths of the voluptuous body.... What has she to do
with the tragic meditations, the tormented symphonies, the intellectual passions of the North?
She must have music in which her hidden desires can unfold, with the minimum of effort, an
opera, which is passionate life without the fatigue of the passions, a sentimental, sensual,
lazy art.

She was weak and changing: she could only apply herself intermittently to any serious study:
she must have amusement; rarely did she do on the morrow what she had decided to do the night
before. She had so many childish ways, so many little disconcerting caprices! The restless
nature of woman, her morbid and periodically unreasonable character. She knew it and then tried
to isolate herself. She knew her weaknesses, and blamed herself for her failure to resist them,
since they distressed her friend; sometimes, without his knowing it, she made real sacrifices
for him; but, when all was told, her nature was the stronger. For the rest, Grazia could not
bear Christophe to seem to be commanding her; and, once or twice, by way of asserting her independence,
she did the opposite of what he asked her. At once she regretted it; at night she would be
filled with remorse that she could not make Christophe happier; she loved him more than she
would let him see; she felt that her friendship with him was the best part of her life. As
usually happens with two very different people, they were more united when they were not together.
In truth, if they had been thrust apart by a misunderstanding, the fault was not altogether
Christophe's, as he honestly believed. Even when in the old days Grazia most dearly loved Christophe,
would she have married him? She would perhaps have given him her life; but would she have so
given herself as to live all her life with him? She knew (though she did not confess it to
Christophe) that she had loved her husband, and, even now, after all the harm he had done her,
loved him as she had never loved Christophe.... The secrets of the heart, the secrets of the
body, of which one is not very proud, and hides from those dear to one, as much out of respect
for them, as in complacent pity for oneself.... Christophe was too masculine to divine them:
but every now and then, in flashes, he would see how little the woman he most dearly loved,
who truly loved him, belonged to him--and that he could not wholly count on any one, on any
one, in life. His love was not quenched by this perception. He even felt no bitterness. Grazia's
peace spread over him. He accepted everything. O life why should I reproach thee for that which
thou canst not give? Art thou not very beautiful and very blessed as thou art? I must fain
love thy smile, Gioconda....

Christophe would gaze at his beloved's beautiful face, and read in it many things of the past
and the future. During the long years when he had lived alone, traveling, speaking little but
seeing much, he had acquired, almost unconsciously, the power of reading the human face, that
rich and complex language formed by the ages. It is a thousand times richer and more complex
than the spoken language. The spirit of the race is expressed in it.... There are perpetual
contrasts between the lines of the face and the words that come from it. Take the profile of
a girl, clear-cut, a little hard, in the Burne-Jones style, tragic, consumed by a secret passion,
jealousy, a Shakespearian sorrow.... She speaks: and, behold, she is a little bourgeois creature,
as stupid as an owl, a selfish, commonplace coquette, with no idea of the terrible forces inscribed
upon her body. And yet such passion, such violence are in her. In what shape will they one
day spring forth? Will it be in the lust of gain, conjugal jealousy, or splendid energy, or
morbid wickedness? There is no knowing. It may be that she will transmit them to another creature
of her blood before the time comes for the eruption. But it is an element with which we have
to reckon as, like a fatality, it hovers above the race.

Grazia also bore the weight of that uneasy heritage, which, of all the patrimony of ancient
families, is the least in danger of being dissipated in transit. She, at least, was aware of
it. It is a great source of strength to know our weakness, to make ourselves, if not the masters,
the pilots of the soul of the race to which we are bound, which bears us like a vessel upon
its waters,--to make fate our instrument, to use it as a sail which we furl or clew up according
to the wind. When Grazia closed her eyes, she could hear within herself more than one disturbing
voice, of a tone familiar to her. But in her healthy soul even the dissonances were blended
to form a profound, soft music, under the guiding hand of her harmonious reason.

Unhappily it is not within our power to transmit the best of our blood to the creatures of
our blood.

Of Grazia's two children, the little girl, Aurora, who was eleven years old, was like her mother;
she was not so pretty, being a little coarser in fiber; she had a slight limp; she was a good
little girl, affectionate and gay, with splendid health, abundant good nature, few natural
gifts, except idleness, a passion for doing nothing. Christophe adored her. When he saw her
with Grazia he felt the charm of a twofold creature, seen at two ages of life, two generations
together.... Two flowers upon one stem; a Holy Family of Leonardo, the Virgin and Saint Anne,
different shades of the same smile. With one glance he could take in the whole blossoming of
a woman's soul; and it was at once fair and sad to see: he could see whence it came and whither
it was going. There is nothing more natural than for an ardent, chaste heart to love two sisters
at one and the same time, or mother and daughter. Christophe would have loved the woman of
his love through all her descendants, just as in her he loved the stock of which she came.
Her every smile, her every tear, every line in her face, were they not living beings, the memories
of a life which was before her eyes opened to the light, the forerunners of a life which was
to come, when he! eyes should be forever closed?

The little boy, Lionello, was nine. He was much handsomer than his sister, of a finer stock,
too fine, worn out and bloodless, wherein he was like his father. He was intelligent, well-endowed
with bad instincts, demonstrative, and dissembling. He had big blue eyes, long, girlish, fair
hair, a pale complexion, a delicate chest, and was morbidly nervous, which last, being a born
comedian and strangely skilled in discovering people's weaknesses, he upon occasion turned
to good account. Grazia was inclined to favor him, with the natural preference of a mother
for her least healthy child,--and also through the attraction which all kindly, good women
feel for the sons who are neither well nor ill (for in them a part of their life which they
have suppressed finds solace). In such attraction there is something of the memory of the husbands
who have made them suffer, whom they loved even while they despised them, or the strange flora
of the soul, which wax strong in the dark, humid hot-house of conscience.

In spite of Grazia's care equally to bestow her tenderness upon her children, Aurora felt the
difference, and was a little hurt by it. Christophe divined her feeling, and she divined Christophe's:
they came together instinctively; while between Christophe and Lionello there was an antipathy
which the boy covered up with exaggerated, lisping, charming ways,--and Christophe thrust from
him as a shameful feeling. He wrestled with himself and forced himself to cherish this other
man's child as though he were the child whom it would have been ineffably sweet for him to
have had by the beloved. He would not allow himself to see Lionello's bad nature or anything
that could remind him of the "other man": he set himself to find in him only Grazia. She, more
clear-sighted, was under no illusions about her son, and she only loved him the more.

However, the disease which for years had been lying dormant in the boy broke out. Consumption
supervened. Grazia resolved to go and shut herself up in a sanatorium in the Alps with Lionello,
Christophe begged to be allowed to go with her. To avoid scandal she dissuaded him. He was
hurt by the excessive importance which she attached to the conventions. She went away and left
her daughter with Colette. It was not long before she began to feel terribly lonely among the
sick people who talked of nothing but their illness, surrounded by the pitiless mountains rising
above the rags and tatters of men. To escape from the depressing spectacle of the invalids
with their spittoons spying upon each other and marking the progress of death over each one
of them, she left the Palace hospital, and took a chalet, where she lived aloof with her own
little invalid. Instead of improving Lionello's condition, the high altitude aggravated it.
His fever waxed greater. Grazia spent nights of anguish. Christophe knew it by his keen intuition,
although she told him nothing: for she was growing more and more rigid in her pride; she longed
for Christophe to be with her, but she had forbidden him to follow her, and she could not bring
herself to confess: "I am too weak, I need you...."

One evening, as she stood in the veranda of the chalet in the twilight hour, which is so bitter
for hearts in agony, she saw ... she thought she saw coming up from the station of the funicular
railway ... a man walking hurriedly: he stopped, hesitating, with his back a little bowed.
She went indoors to avoid his seeing her: she held her hands over her heart, and, quivering
with emotion, she laughed. Although she was not at all religious she knelt down, hid her face
in her hands; she felt the need of thanking some one.... But he did not come. She went back
to the window, and, hiding behind the curtains, looked out. He had stopped, leaning against
a fence round a field, near the gate of the chalet. He dared not enter. And, even more perturbed
than he, she smiled, and said in a low voice:

"Come...."

At last he made up his mind and rang the bell. Already she was at the door, and she opened
it. His eyes looked at her like the eyes of a faithful dog, who is afraid of being beaten. He said:

"I came.... Forgive me...."

She said:

"Thank you."

Then she confessed how she had expected him. Christophe helped her to nurse the boy, whose
condition was growing worse. His heart was in the task. The boy treated him with irritable
animosity: he took no pains now to conceal it: he said many malicious things to him. Christophe
put it all down to his illness. He was extraordinarily patient. He passed many painful days
by the boy's bedside, until the critical night, on passing through which, Lionello, whom they
had given up for lost, was saved. And they felt then such pure happiness--watching hand in
hand over the little invalid--that suddenly she got up, took her cloak and hood, and led Christophe
out of doors, along the road, in the snow, the silence and the night, under the cold stars.
Leaning on his arm, excitedly breathing in the frozen peace of the world, they hardly spoke
at all. They made no allusion to their love. Only when they returned, on the threshold, she
said: "My dear, dear friend!..."

And her eyes were lit up by the happiness of having saved her child. That was all. But they
felt that the bond between them had become sacred.

On her return to Paris after Lionello's long convalescence, she took a little house at Passy,
and did not worry any more about "avoiding scandal": she felt brave enough to dare opinion
for her friend's sake. Their life henceforth was so intimately linked that it would have seemed
cowardly to her to conceal the friendship which united them at the--inevitable--risk of having
it slandered. She received Christophe at all hours of the day, and was seen with him out walking
and at the theater: she spoke familiarly to him in company. Colette thought they were making
themselves too conspicuous. Grazia would stop her hints with a smile, and quietly go her way.

And yet she had given Christophe no new right over her. They were nothing more than friends:
he always addressed her with the same affectionate respect. But they hid nothing from each
other: they consulted each other about everything: and insensibly Christophe assumed a sort
of paternal authority in the house: Grazia listened to and followed his advice. She was no
longer the same woman since the winter she had spent in the sanatorium; the anxiety and fatigue
had seriously tried her health, which, till then, had been sturdy. Her soul was affected by
it. In spite of an occasional lapse into her old caprices, she had become mysteriously more
serious, more reflective, and was more constantly desirous of being kind, of learning and not
hurting any one. Every day saw her more softened by Christophe's affection, his disinterestedness,
and the purity of his heart: and she was thinking of one day giving him the great happiness
of which he no longer dared to dream, that of becoming his wife.

He had never broached the subject again after her first refusal, for he thought he had no right
to do so. But regretfully he clung to his impossible hope. Though he respected what his friend
had said, he was not convinced by her disillusioned attitude towards marriage: he persisted
in believing that the union of two people who love each other, profoundly and devotedly, is
the height of human happiness.--His regrets were revived by coming in contact once more with
the Arnauds.

Madame Arnaud was more than fifty. Her husband was sixty-five or sixty-six. Both seemed to
be older. He had grown stout: she was very thin and rather shrunken: spare though she had been
in the old days, she was now just a wisp of a woman. After Arnaud's retirement they had gone
to live in a house in the country. They had no link with the life of the time save the newspaper,
which in the torpor of their little town and their drowsy life brought them the tardy echo
of the voice of the world. Once they saw Christophe's name. Madame Arnaud wrote him a few affectionate,
rather ceremonious words, to tell him how glad they were of his fame. He took the train at
once without letting them know.

He found them in the garden, dozing under the round canopy of an ash, on a warm summer afternoon.
They were like Boecklin's old couple, sleeping hand in hand, in an arbor. Sun, sleep, old age
overwhelm them: they are falling, they are already half-buried in the eternal dream. And, as
the last gleam of their life, their tenderness persists to the end. The clasp of their hands,
the dying warmth of their bodies....--They were delighted to see Christophe, for the sake of
all the memories of the past he brought with him. They talked of the old days, which at that
distance seemed brilliant and full of light.

Arnaud loved talking, but he had lost his memory for names. Madame Arnaud whispered them to
him. She liked saying nothing and preferred listening to talking: but the image of the old
times had been kept alive and clear in her silent heart: in glimmers they would appear sharply
before her like shining pebbles in a stream. There was one such memory that Christophe more
than once saw reflected in her eyes as she looked at him with affectionate compassion: but
Olivier's name was not pronounced. Old Arnaud plied his wife with touching, awkward little
attentions; he was fearful lest she should catch cold, or be too hot; he would gaze hungrily
with anxious love at her dear, faded face, and with a weary smile she would try to reassure
him. Christophe watched them tenderly, with a little envy.... To grow old together. To love
in the dear companion even the wear of time. To say: "I know those lines round her eyes and
nose. I have seen them coming. I know when they came. Her scant gray hair has lost its color,
day by day, in my company, something because of me, alas! Her sweet face has swollen and grown
red in the fires of the weariness and sorrow that have consumed us. My soul, how much better
I love thee for that thou hast suffered and grown old with me. Every one of thy wrinkles is
to me as music from the past...." The charm of these old people, who, after the long vigil
of life, spent side by side, go side by side to sleep in the peace of the night! To see them
was both sweet and profitable and sorrowful for Christophe. Oh! How lovely had life and death
been thus!...

When he next saw Grazia, he could not help telling her of his visit. He did not tell her of
the thoughts roused in him by his visit. But she divined them. He was tender and wistful as
he spoke. He turned his eyes away from her and was silent every now and then. She looked at
him and smiled, and Christophe's unease infected her.

That evening, when she was alone in her room, she lay dreaming. She went over the story Christophe
had told her; but the image she saw through it was not that of the old couple sleeping under
the ash: it was the shy, ardent dream of her friend. And her heart was filled with love for
him. She lay in the dark and thought:

"Yes. It is absurd, criminal and absurd, to waste the opportunity for such happiness. What
joy in the world can equal the joy of making the man you love happy?... What! Do I love him?..."

She was silent, deeply moved, listening to the answer of her heart.

"I love him."

Just then a dry, hard, hasty cough came from the next room where the children were sleeping.
Grazia pricked her ears: since the boy's illness she had always been anxious. She called out
to him. He made no reply, and went on coughing. She sprang from her bed and went to him. He
was irritated, and moaned, and said that he was not well, and broke out coughing again.

"What is the matter?"

He did not reply, but only groaned that he was ill.

"My darling, please tell me what is the matter?"

"I don't know."

"Is it here?"

"Yes. No. I don't know. I am ill all over."

On that he had a fresh fit of coughing, violent and exaggerated. Grazia was alarmed: she had
a feeling that he was forcing himself to cough: but she was ashamed of her thought, as she
saw the boy sweating and choking for breath. She kissed him and spoke to him tenderly: he seemed
to grow calmer; but as soon as she tried to leave him he broke out coughing again. She had
to stay shivering by his bedside, for he would not even allow her to go away to dress herself,
and insisted on her holding his hand; and he would not let her go until he fell asleep again.
Then she went to bed, chilled, uneasy, harassed. And she found it impossible to gather up the
threads of her dreams.

The boy had a singular power of reading his mother's thoughts. This instinctive genius is often--though
seldom in such a high degree--to be found in creatures of the same stock: they hardly need
to look at each other to know each other's thoughts: they can guess them by the breathing,
by a thousand imperceptible signs. This natural aptness, which is fortified by living together,
was in Lionello sharpened and refined by his ever wakeful malevolence. He had the insight of
the desire to hurt. He detested Christophe. Why? Why does a child take a dislike to a person
who has never done him any harm? It is often a matter of chance. It is enough for a child to
have begun by persuading himself that he detests some one, for it to become a habit, and the
more he is argued with the more desperately he will cling to it. But often, again, there are
deeper reasons for it, which pass the child's understanding: he has no idea of them.... From
the first moment when he saw Christophe, the son of Count Bereny had a feeling of animosity
towards the man whom his mother had loved. It was as though he had instinctively felt the exact
moment when Grazia began to think of marrying Christophe. From that moment on he never ceased
to spy upon them. He was always between them, and refused to leave the room whenever Christophe
came; or he would manage to burst in upon them when they were sitting together. More than that,
when his mother was alone, thinking of Christophe, he seemed to divine her thoughts. He would
sit near her and watch her. His gaze would embarrass her and almost make her blush. She would
get up to conceal her unease.--He would take a delight in saying unkind things about Christophe
in her presence. She would bid him be silent, but he would go on. And if she tried to punish
him, he would threaten to make himself ill. That was the strategy he had always used successfully
since he was a child. When he was quite small, one day when he had been scolded, he had, out
of revenge, undressed himself and lain naked on the floor so as to catch cold.--Once, when
Christophe brought a piece of music that he had composed for Grazia's birthday, the boy took
the manuscript and hid it. It was found in tatters in a wood-box. Grazia lost her patience
and scolded him severely. Then he wept and howled, and stamped his feet, and rolled on the
ground, and had an attack of nerves. Grazia was terrified, and kissed and implored him, and
promised to do whatever he wanted.

From that day on he was the master: for he knew it: and very frequently he had recourse to
the weapon with which he had succeeded. There was never any knowing how far his attacks were
natural and how far counterfeit. Soon he was not satisfied with using them vengefully when
he was opposed in any way, but took to using them out of spite whenever his mother and Christophe
planned to spend the evening together. He even went so far as to play his dangerous game out
of sheer idleness, or theatricality, to discover the extent of his power. He was extraordinarily
ingenious in inventing strange, nervous accidents; sometimes in the middle of dinner he would
be seized with a convulsive trembling, and upset his glass or break his plate; sometimes, as
he was going upstairs, he would clutch at the banisters with his hand: his fingers would stiffen:
he would pretend that he could not open them again; or he would have a sharp pain in his side
and roll about, howling; or he would choke. Of course, in the end he developed a genuine nervous
illness. Christophe and Grazia were at their wits' end. Their peaceful meetings--their quiet
talks, their readings, their music, which were as a festival to them--all their humble happiness
was henceforth disturbed.

Every now and then, however, the little imp would, give them a respite, partly because he was
tired of his play-acting, partly because his child's nature took possession of him again, and
made him think of something else. (He was sure now that he had won the day.)

Then, quickly, quietly, they would seize their opportunity. Every hour that they could steal
in this way was the more precious to them as they could never be sure of enjoying it to the
end. How near they felt to each other! Why could they not always be so!... One day Grazia herself
confessed to her regret. Christophe took her hand.

"Yes. Why?" he asked.

"You know why, my dear," she said, with a miserable smile.

Christophe knew. He knew that she was sacrificing their happiness to her son: he knew that
she was not deceived by Lionello's lies, that she still adored him: he knew the blind egoism
of such domestic affections which make the best pour out their reserves of devotion to the
advantage of the bad or mediocre creatures of their blood, so that there is nothing left for
them to give to those who would be more worthy, whom they love best, but who are not of their
blood. And although he was irritated by it, although there were times when he longed to kill
the little monster who was destroying their lives, yet he bowed his head in silence, and understood
that Grazia could not do otherwise.

So they renounced their life without vain recrimination. But if the happiness which was their
right could be snatched from them, nothing could prevent the union of their hearts. Their very
renunciation, their common sacrifice, held them by bonds stronger than those of the flesh.
Each confided the sorrow of it all to the other, passed over the burden of it, and took on
the other's suffering: so even their sorrow became joy. Christophe called Grazia "his confessor."
He did not hide from her the weaknesses from which his pride had to suffer: rather he accused
himself with too great contrition, and she would smilingly soothe his boyish scruples. He even
confessed to her his material poverty; but he could only bring himself to do that after it
had been agreed between them that she should neither offer him, nor he accept from her, any
help. It was the last barrier of pride which he upheld and she respected. In place of the well-being
which she could not bring into her friend's life, she found many ways of filling it with what
was infinitely more precious to him--namely, her tenderness. He felt the breath of it all about
him, during every hour of the day: he never opened his eyes in the morning, never closed them
at night, without a prayer of love and adoration. And when she awoke, or at night, as often
happened, lay for hours without sleeping, she thought:

"My dear is thinking of me."

And a great peace came upon them and surrounded them.

       *       *       *       *       *

However, her health had given way. Grazia was constantly in bed, or had to spend the day lying
on a sofa. Christophe used to go every day and read to her, and show her his new work. Then
she would get up from the chair, and limp to the piano, for her feet were swollen. She would
play the music he had brought. It was the greatest joy she could give him. Of all his pupils
she and Cecile were the most gifted. But while Cecile had an instinctive feeling for music,
with hardly any understanding of it, to Grazia it was a lovely harmonious language full of
meaning for her. The demoniac quality in life and art escaped her altogether: she brought to
bear on it the clarity of her intelligence and heart. Christophe's genius was saturated with
her clarity. His friend's playing helped him to understand the obscure passions he had expressed.
With closed eyes he would listen, and follow her, and hold her by the hand, as she led him
through the maze of his own thoughts. By living in his music through Grazia's soul, he was
wedded to her soul and possessed it. Prom this mysterious conjugation sprang music which was
the fruit of the mingling of their lives. One day, as he brought her a collection of his works,
woven of his substance and hers, he said:

"Our children."

Theirs was an unbroken communion whether they were together or apart; sweet were the evenings
spent in the peace and quiet of the old house, which was a fit setting for the image of Grazia,
where the silent, cordial servants, who were devoted to Christophe, extended to him a little
of the respectful affection they had for their mistress. Joyous was it to listen to the song
of the fleeting hours, and to see the tide of life ebbing away.... A shadow of anxiety was
thrown on their happiness by Grazia's failing health. But, in spite of her little infirmities,
she was so serene that her hidden sufferings did but heighten her charm. She was his "liebe,
leidende, und doch so ruhrende, heitre Freundin" ("his dear, suffering, touching friend, always
so bright and cheerful"). And sometimes, in the evening, when he left her with his heart big
with love so that he could not wait until the morrow, he would write:

"Liebe, liebe, liebe, liebe, liebe Grazia...."

Their tranquillity lasted for months. They thought it would last forever. The boy seemed to
have forgotten them: his attention was distracted by other things. But after this respite he
returned to them and never left them again. The horrible little boy had determined to part
his mother and Christophe. He resumed his play-acting. He did not set about it upon any premeditated
plan, but, from day to day, followed the whimsies of his spite. He had no idea of the harm
he might be doing: he only wanted to amuse himself by boring other people. He never relaxed
his efforts until he had made Grazia promise to leave Paris and go on a long journey. Grazia
had no strength to resist him. Besides, the doctors advised her to pay a visit to Egypt. She
had to avoid another winter in the northern climate. Too many things had tried her health:
the moral upheaval of the last few years, the perpetual anxiety about her son's health, the
long periods of uncertainty, the struggle that had taken place in her without her giving any
sign of it, the sorrow of sorrows that she was inflicting on her friend. To avoid adding to
the trouble he divined in her, Christophe hid his own grief at the approach of the day of parting:
he made no effort to postpone it; and they were outwardly calm, and, though inwardly they were
very far from it, yet they succeeded in forcing it upon each other.

The day came. A September morning. They had left Paris together in the middle of July, and
spent their last weeks in Switzerland in a mountain hotel, near the place where they had met
again six years ago.

They were unable to go out the last five days: the rain came down in unceasing torrents: they
were almost alone in the hotel, for all the other travelers had fled. The rain stopped on their
last morning, but the mountains were still covered with clouds. The children went on ahead
with the servants in another carriage. She drove off. He accompanied her to the place where
the road began to descend in steep windings to the plain of Italy. The mist came in under the
hood of the carriage. They were very close together, and they said no word: they hardly looked
at each other. A strange light, half-day, half-night, wrapped them round.... Grazia's breath
left little drops of water on her veil. He pressed her little hand, warm under her cold glove.
Their faces came together. Through her wet veil he kissed her dear lips.

They came to the turn of the road. He got down, and the carriage plunged on into the mist and
disappeared. For a long time he could hear the rumbling of the wheels and the horses' hoofs.
Great masses of white mist rolled over the fields. Through the close tracery of the branches
the dripping trees dropped water. Not a breath of wind. The mist was stifling life. Christophe
stopped, choking.... There was nothing now. Everything had gone....

He took in a long breath, filling his lungs with the mist, and walked on. Nothing passes for
him who does not pass.

III

Absence adds to the power of those we love. The heart retains only what is dear to us in them.
The echo of each word coming through space from the distant friend, rings out in the silence,
faithfully answering.

The correspondence of Christophe and Grazia took on the serious and restrained tone of a couple
who are no longer in the dangerous period of trial of love, but, having passed it, feel sure
of the road and march on hand in hand. Each was strong to sustain and direct the other, weak
and yielding to the other's support and direction.

Christophe returned to Paris. He had vowed never to go there again. But what are such vows
worth? He knew that he would find there the shade of Grazia. And circumstances, conspiring
with his secret desires against his will, showed him a new duty to fulfil in Paris. Colette,
well informed as to society gossip, told Christophe that his young friend Jeannin was making
a fool of himself. Jacqueline, who had always been weak in her dealings with her son, could
not hold him in check. She herself was passing through a strange crisis, and was too much occupied
with herself to pay much heed to him.

Since the unhappy adventure which had destroyed Olivier's marriage and life, Jacqueline had
lived a very worthy life. She withdrew from Parisian society, which, after imposing on her
a hypocritical sort of quarantine, had made fresh advances to her, which she had rejected.
She was not at all ashamed of what she had done as far as these people were concerned: she
thought she had no reason to account to them for it, for they were more worthless than she:
what she had done openly, half the women she knew did by stealth, under cover of their homes.
She suffered only from the thought of the wrong she had done her nearest and dearest, the only
man she had loved. She could not forgive herself for having, in so poor a world, lost an affection
like his.

Her regrets, and her sorrow, grew less acute with time. There were left only a sort of mute
suffering, a humiliated contempt for herself and others, and the love of her child. This affection,
into which she poured all her need of love, disarmed her before him; she could not resist Georges's
caprices. To excuse her weakness she persuaded herself that she was paying for the wrong she
had done Olivier. She had alternate periods of exalted tenderness and weary indifference: sometimes
she would worry Georges with her exacting, anxious love, and sometimes she would seem to tire
of him, and she let him do as he liked. She admitted to herself that she was bringing him up
badly, and she would torment herself with the admission; but she made no change. When, as she
rarely did, she tried to model her principles of conduct on Olivier's way of thinking, the
result was deplorable. At heart she wished to have no authority over her son save that of her
affection. And she was not wrong: for between these two, however similar they might be, there
were no bonds save those of the heart. Georges Jeannin was sensible of his mother's physical
charm: he loved her voice, her gestures, her movements, her grace, her love. But in mind he
was conscious of strangerhood to her. She only saw it as he began to grow into a man, when
he turned from her. Then she was amazed and indignant, and attributed the estrangement to other
feminine influences: and, as she tried awkwardly to combat them, she only estranged him more.
In reality, they had always lived, side by side, each preoccupied with totally different interests,
deceiving themselves as to the gulf that lay between them, with the aid of their common surface
sympathies and antipathies, which disappeared when the man began to spring forth from the boy
(that ambiguous creature, still impregnated with the perfume of womanhood). And bitterly Jacqueline
would say to her son:

"I don't know whom you take after. You are not like your father or me."

So she made him feel all that lay between them; and he took a secret pride that was yet feverish
and uneasy.

The younger generation has always a keener sense than the elder of the things that lie between
them; they need to gain assurance of the importance of their existence, even at the cost of
injustice or of lying to themselves. But this feeling varies in its acuteness from one period
to another. In the classic ages when, for a time, the balance of the forces of a civilization
are realized,--those high plateaux ending on all sides with steep slopes--the difference in
level is not so great from one generation to another. But in the ages of renascence or decadence,
the young men climbing or plunging down the giddy slopes, leave their predecessors far behind.--Georges,
like the other young men of his time, was ascending the mountain.

He was superior neither in character nor in mind: he had many aptitudes, none of which rose
above the level of elegant mediocrity. And yet, without any effort on his part, he found himself
at the outset of his career several grades higher than his father, who, in his short life,
had expended an incalculable amount of intellect and energy.

Hardly were the eyes of his mind opened upon the light of day than he saw all round him the
heaped-up darkness, pierced by luminous gleams, the masses of knowledge and ignorance, warring
truths, contradictory errors, in which his father and the men of his father's generation had
feverishly groped their way. But at the same time he became conscious of a weapon in his power
which they had never known: his force....

Whence did he have it?... Who can tell the mystery of the resurrections of a race, sleeping,
worn out, which suddenly awakes brimming like a mountain torrent in the spring!... What would
he do with his force? Use it in his turn to explore the inextricable thickets of modern thought?
They had no attraction for him. He was oppressed by the menacing dangers which lurked in them.
They had crushed his father. Rather than renew that experience and enter the tragic forest
he would have set fire to it. He had only to glance at the books of wisdom or sacred folly
which had intoxicated Olivier: the Nihilist pity of Tolstoi, the somber destructive pride of
Ibsen, the frenzy of Nietzsche, the heroic, sensual pessimism of Wagner. He had turned away
from them in anger and terror. He hated the realistic writers who, for half a century, had
killed the joy of art. He could not, however, altogether blot out the shadows of the sorrowful
dream in which he had been cradled. He would not look behind him, but he well knew that the
shadow was there. He was too healthy to seek a counter-irritant to his uneasiness in the lazy
skepticism of the preceding epoch: he detested the dilettantism of men like Renan and Anatole
France, with their degradation of the free intellect, their joyless mirth, their irony without
greatness: a shameful method, fit for slaves, playing with the chains which they are impotent
to break.

He was too vigorous to be satisfied with doubt, too weak to create the conviction which, with
all his soul, he desired. He asked for it, prayed for it, demanded it. And the eternal snappers-up
of popularity, the great writers, the sham thinkers at bay, exploited this imperious and agonized
desire, by beating the drums and shouting the clap-trap of their nostrum. From trestles, each
of these Hippocrates bawled that his was the only true elixir, and decried all the rest. Their
secrets were all equally worthless. None of these pedlars had taken the trouble to find a new
recipe. They had hunted about among their old empty bottles. The panacea of one was the Catholic
Church: another's was legitimate monarchy: yet another's, the classic tradition. There were
queer fellows who declared that the remedy for all evils lay in the return to Latin. Others
seriously prognosticated, with an enormous word which imposed on the herd, the domination of
the Mediterranean spirit. (They would have been just as ready at some other time to talk of
the Atlantic spirit.) Against the barbarians of the North and the East they pompously set up
the heirs of a new Roman Empire.... Words, words, all second-hand. The refuse of the libraries
scattered to the winds.--Like all his comrades, young Jeannin went from one showman to another,
listened to their patter, was sometimes taken in by it, and entered the booth, only to come
out disappointed and rather ashamed of having spent his time and his money in watching old
clowns buffooning in shabby rags. And yet, such is youth's power of illusion, such was his
certainty of gaining certainty, that he was always taken in by each new promise of each new
vendor of hope. He was very French, of a hypercritical temper, and an innate lover of order.
He needed a leader and could bear none; his pitiless irony always riddled them through and through.

While he was waiting for the advent of a leader who should give him the key to the riddle ...
he had no time to wait. He was not the kind of man, like his father, to be satisfied with the
lifelong search for truth. With or without a motive, he needed always to make up his mind,
to act, to turn to account, to use his energy. Traveling, the delight of art, and especially
of music, with which he had gorged himself, had at first been to him an intermittent and passionate
diversion. He was handsome, ardent, precocious, beset with temptations, and he early discovered
the outwardly enchanting world of love, and plunged into it with an unbridled, poetic, greedy
joy. Then this impertinently naive and insatiable cherub wearied of women: he needed action,
so he gave himself up uncontrollably to sport. He tried everything, practised everything. He
was always going to fencing and boxing matches: he was the French champion runner and high-jumper,
and captain of a football team. He competed with a number of other crazy, reckless, rich young
men like himself in ridiculous, wild motor races. Finally he threw up everything for the latest
fad, and was drawn into the popular craze for flying machines. At the Rheims meetings he shouted
and wept for joy with three hundred thousand other men; he felt that he was one with the whole
people in a religious jubilation; the human birds flying over their heads bore them upwards
in their flight: for the first time since the dawn of the great Revolution the vast multitude
had raised their eyes to the heavens and seen them open.--To his mother's terror young Jeannin
declared that he was going to throw in his lot with the conquerors of the air. Jacqueline implored
him to give up his perilous ambition. She ordered him to do so. He took the bit between his
teeth. Christophe, in whom Jacqueline thought she had found an ally, only gave the boy a little
prudent advice, which he felt quite sure Georges would not follow (for, in his place, he would
not have done so). He did not deem that he had any right,--even had he been able to do so--to
fetter the healthy and normal expansion of the boy's vitality, which, if it had been forced
into inaction, would have been perverted to his destruction.

Jacqueline could not reconcile herself to seeing her son leave her. She had vainly thought
that she had renounced love, for she could not do without the illusion of love; all her affections,
all her actions were tinged with it. There are so many mothers who expend on their sons all
the secret ardor which they have been unable to give forth in marriage--or out of it! And when
they see how easily their sons do without them, when suddenly they understand that they are
not necessary to them, they go through the same kind of crisis as befalls them upon the betrayal
of a lover, or the disillusion of love.--Once more Jacqueline's whole existence crumbled away.
Georges saw nothing. Young people never have any idea of the tragedies of the heart going on
around them: they have no time to stop and see them: and they do not wish to see: a selfish
instinct bids them march straight on without looking to right or left.

Jacqueline was left alone to gulp down this new sorrow. She only emerged from it when her grief
was worn out, worn out like her love. She still loved her son, but with a distant, disillusioned
affection, which she knew to be futile, and she lost all interest in herself and him. So she
dragged through a wretched, miserable year, without his paying her any heed. And then, poor
creature, since her heart could neither live nor die without love, she was forced to find something
to love. She fell victim to a strange passion, such as often takes possession of women, and
especially, it would seem, of the noblest and most inaccessible, when maturity comes and the
fair fruit of life has not been gathered. She made the acquaintance of a woman who, from their
first meeting, gained an ascendancy over her through her mysterious power of attraction.

This woman was about her own age, and she was a nun. She was always busy with charitable works.
A tall, fine, rather stout woman, dark, with rather bold, handsome features, sharp eyes, a
big, sensitive, ever-smiling mouth, and a masterful chin. She was remarkably intelligent, and
not at all sentimental; she had the malice of a peasant, a keen business sense, and a southern
imagination, which saw everything in exaggeration, though always exactly to scale when necessary:
she was a strangely enticing mixture of lofty mysticism and lawyer's cunning. She was used
to domination, and the exercise of it was a habit with her. Jacqueline was drawn to her at
once. She became enthusiastic over her work, or, at least, believed herself to be so. Sister
Angele knew perfectly what was the object of her passion: she was used to provoking them; and
without seeming to notice them, she used skilfully to turn them to account for her work and
the glory of God. Jacqueline gave up her money, her will, her heart. She was charitable, so
she believed, through love.

It was not long before her infatuation was observed. She was the only person not to realize
it. Georges's guardian became anxious. Georges was too generous and too easy to worry about
money matters, though he saw his mother's subjection, and was shocked by it. He tried, too
late in the day, to resume his old intimacy with her, and saw that a veil was drawn between
them; he blamed the occult influence for it, and, both against his mother and the nun, whom
he called an intriguer, he conceived a feeling of irritation which he made no attempt to disguise:
he could not admit a stranger to his place in a heart that he had regarded as his natural right.
It never occurred to him that his place was taken because he had left it. Instead of trying
patiently to win it back, he was clumsy and cruel. Quick words passed between mother and son,
both of whom were hasty and passionate, and the rupture grew marked. Sister Angele established
her ascendancy over Jacqueline, and Georges rushed away and kicked over the traces. He plunged
into a restless, dissipated life; gambled, lost large sums of money; he put a certain amount
of exaggeration into his extravagances, partly for his own pleasure and partly to counterbalance
his mother's extravagances.--He knew the Stevens-Delestrades. Colette had marked down the handsome
boy, and tried the effect on him of her charms, which she never wearied of using. She knew
of all Georges's freaks, and was vastly entertained by them. But her sound common sense and
the real kindness concealed beneath her frivolity, helped her to see the danger the young idiot
was running. And, being well aware that it was beyond her to save him, she warned Christophe,
who came at once.

Christophe was the only person who had any influence over young Jeannin. His influence was
limited and very intermittent, but all the more remarkable in that it was difficult to explain.
Christophe belonged to the preceding generation against which Georges and his companions were
violently in reaction. He was one of the most conspicuous representatives of that period of
torment whose art and ideas rouse in them a feeling of suspicion and hostility. He was unmoved
by the new Gospels and the charms of the minor prophets and the old cheapjacks who were offering
the young men an infallible recipe for the salvation of the world, Rome and France. He was
faithful to the free faith, free of all religion, free of all parties, free of all countries,
which was no longer the fashion--or had never been fashionable. Finally, though he was altogether
removed from national questions, he was a foreigner in Paris at a time when all foreigners
were regarded by the natives of the country as barbarians.

And yet, young Jeannin, joyous, easy-going, instinctively hostile to everything that might
make him sad or uneasy, ardent in pursuit of pleasure, engrossed in violent sports, easily
duped by the rhetoric of his time, in his physical vigor and mental indolence inclined to the
brutal doctrines of French action, nationalist, royalist, imperialist--(he did not exactly
know)--in his heart reflected only one man: Christophe. His precocious experience and the delicate
tact he had inherited from his mother made him see (without being in the least disturbed by
it) how little worth was the world that he could not live without, and how superior to it was
Christophe. From Olivier he had inherited a vague uneasiness, which visited him in sudden fits
that never lasted very long, a need of finding and deciding on some definite aim for what he
was doing. And perhaps it was from Olivier that he had also inherited the mysterious instinct
which drew him towards the man whom Olivier had loved.

He used to go and see Christophe. He was expansive by nature, and of a rather chattering temper,
and he loved indulging in confidences. He never troubled to think whether Christophe had time
to listen to him. But Christophe always did listen, and never gave any sign of impatience.
Only sometimes he would be rather absent-minded when Georges had interrupted him in his work,
but never for more than a few minutes, when his mind would be away putting the finishing touches
to its work: then it would return to Georges, who never noticed its absence. He used to laugh
at the evasion, and come back like a man tiptoeing into the room, so as not to be heard. But
once or twice Georges did notice it, and then he said indignantly:

"But you are not listening!"

Then Christophe was ashamed: and docilely he would listen to Georges's story, and try to win
his forgiveness by redoubled attention. The stories were often very funny: and Christophe could
not help laughing at the tale of some wild freak: for Georges kept nothing back: his frankness
was disarming.

Christophe did not always laugh. Georges's conduct sometimes pained him. Christophe was no
saint: he knew he had no right to moralize over anybody. Georges's love affairs, and the scandalous
waste of his fortune in folly, were not what shocked him most. What he found it most hard to
forgive was the light-mindedness with which Georges regarded his sins: they were no burden
to him: he thought them very natural. His conception of morality was very different from Christophe's.
He was one of those young men who are fain to see in the relation of the sexes nothing more
than a game that has no moral aspect whatever. A certain frankness and a careless kindliness
were all that was necessary for an honest man. He was not troubled with Christophe's scruples.
Christophe would wax wrath. In vain did he try not to impose his way of feeling upon others:
he could not be tolerant, and his old violence was only half tamed. Every now and then he would
explode. He could not help seeing how dirty were some of Georges's intrigues, and he used bluntly
to tell him so. Georges was no more patient than he, and they used to have angry scenes, after
which they would not see each other for weeks. Christophe would realize that his outbursts
were not likely to change Georges's conduct, and that it was perhaps unjust to subject the
morality of a period to the moral ideas of another generation. But his feeling was too strong
for him, and on the next opportunity he would break out again. How can one renounce the faith
for which one has lived? That were to renounce life. What is the good of laboring to think
thoughts other than one's own, to be like one's neighbor or to meddle with his affairs? That
leads to self-destruction, and no one is benefited by it. The first duty is to be what one
is, to dare to say: "This is good, that bad." One profits the weak more by being strong than
by sharing their weakness. Be indulgent, if you like, towards weakness and past sins. But never
compromise with any weakness....

Yes: but Georges never by any chance consulted Christophe about anything he was going to do:--(did
he know himself?).--He only told him about things when they were done.--And then?... Then,
what could he do but look in dumb reproach at the culprit, and shrug his shoulders and smile,
like an old uncle who knows that he is not heeded?

On such occasions they would sit for several minutes in silence. Georges would look up at Christophe's
grave eyes, which seemed to be gazing at him from far away. And he would feel like a little
boy in his presence. He would see himself as he was, in that penetrating glance, which was
shot with a gleam of malice: and he was not proud of it.

Christophe hardly ever made use of Georges's confidences against him; it was often as though
he had not heard them. After the mute dialogue of their eyes, he would shake his head mockingly,
and then begin to tell a story without any apparent bearing on the story he had just been told,
some story about his life, or some one else's life, real or fictitious. And gradually Georges
would see his double (he recognized it at once) under a new light, grotesquely, ridiculously
postured, passing through vagaries similar to his own. Christophe never added any commentary.
The extraordinary kindliness of the story-teller would produce far more effect than the story.
He would speak of himself just as he spoke of others, with the same detachment, the same jovial,
serene humor. Georges was impressed by his tranquillity. It was for this that he came. When
he had unburdened himself of his light-hearted confession, he was like a man stretching out
his limbs and lying at full length in the shade of a great tree on a summer afternoon. The
dazzling fever of the scorching day would fall away from him. Above him he would feel the hovering
of protecting wings. In the presence of this man who so peacefully bore the heavy burden of
his life, he was sheltered from his own inward restlessness. He found rest only in hearing
him speak. He did not always listen: his mind would wander, but wheresoever it went, it was
surrounded by Christophe's laughter.

However, he did not understand his old friend's ideas. He used to wonder how Christophe could
bear his soul's solitude, and dispense with being bound to any artistic, political, or religious
party, or any group of men. He used to ask him: "Don't you ever want to take refuge in a camp
of some sort?"

"Take refuge?" Christophe would say with a laugh. "It is much too good outside. And you, an
open-air man, talk of shutting yourself up?"

"Ah!" Georges would reply. "It is not the same thing for body and soul. The mind needs certainty:
it needs to think with others, to adhere to the principles admitted by all the men of the time.
I envy the men of old days, the men of the classic ages. My friends are right in their desire
to restore the order of the past."

"Milksop!" said Christophe. "What have I to do with such disheartened creatures?"

"I am not disheartened," protested Georges indignantly. "None of us is that."

"But you must be," said Christophe, "to be afraid of yourselves. What! You need order and cannot
create it for yourselves? You must always be clinging to your great-grandmother's skirts! Dear
God! You must walk alone!"

"One must take root," said Georges, proudly echoing one of the pontiffs of the time.

"But do you think the trees need to be shut up in a box to take root? The earth is there for
all of us. Plunge your roots into it. Find your own laws. Look to yourself."

"I have no time," said Georges.

"You are afraid," insisted Christophe.

Georges indignantly denied it, but in the end he agreed that he had no taste for examining
his inmost soul: he could not understand what pleasure there could be in it: there was the
danger of falling over if you looked down into the abyss.

"Give me your hand," said Christophe.

He would amuse himself by opening the trap-door of his realistic, tragic vision of life. Georges
would draw away from it, and Christophe would shut it down again, laughing:

"How can you live like that?" Georges would ask.

"I am alive, and I am happy," Christophe would reply.

"I should die if I were forced to see things like that always."

Christophe would slap him on the shoulder:

"Fine athlete you are!... Well, don't look, if your head is not strong enough. There is nothing
to make you, after all. Go ahead, my boy. But do you need a master to brand your shoulder,
like a sheep? What is the word of command you are waiting for? The signal was given long ago.
The signal to saddle has sounded, and the cavalry is on the march. Don't worry about anything
but your horse. Take your place! And gallop!"

"But where to?" asked Georges.

"With your regiment to the conquest of the world. Conquer the air, master the elements, dig
the last entrenchment of Nature, set back space, drive back death....

"Expertus vacuum Dadalus aera...."

"... Do you know that, you champion of Latin? Can you even tell me what it means?

"Perrupit Acheronta...."

"That is your lot, you happy conquistadores!"

So clearly did he show the duty of heroic action that had devolved upon the new generation,
that Georges was amazed, and said:

"But if you feel that, why don't you come with us?"

"Because I have a different task. Go, my boy, do your work. Surpass me, if you can. But I stay
here and watch.... Have you read the Arabian Night in which a genii, as tall as a mountain,
is imprisoned in a bottle sealed with the seal of Solomon?... The genii is here, in the depths
of our soul, the soul into which you are afraid to look down. I and the men of my time spent
our lives in struggling with him: we did not conquer him: he conquered us. At present we are
both recovering our breath, and, with no rancor nor fear, we are looking at each other, satisfied
with the struggles in which we have been engaged, waiting for the agreed armistice to expire.
You are profiting by the armistice to gather your strength and cull the world's beauty. Be
happy. Enjoy the lull. But remember that one day, you or your children, on your return from
your conquests, will have to come back to the place where I stand and resume the combat, with
new forces, against the genii by whose side I watch and wait. And the combat will endure with
intervals of armistice until one of the two (perhaps both) will be laid low. It is your duty
to be stronger and happier than we!...--Meanwhile, indulge in your sport if you like: stiffen
your muscles and strengthen your heart: and do not be so foolish as to waste your impatient
vigor upon silly trifles: you belong to an age that, if you are patient, will find a use for it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Georges did not remember much of what Christophe said to him. He was open-minded enough to
grasp Christophe's ideas, but they escaped him at once. He forgot everything before he reached
the bottom of the stairs. But all the same, he had a feeling of well-being, which endured when
the memory of the words that had produced it had long been wiped out. He had a real veneration
for Christophe. He believed in nothing that Christophe believed in (at heart he laughed at
everything and had no belief). But he would have broken the head of any man who took upon himself
to speak ill of his old friend.

Fortunately, no one did speak ill of him in his presence, otherwise he would have been kept busy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Christophe had accurately forecast the next change of the wind. The new ideal of the new French
music was very different from his own; but while that was a reason the more for Christophe
to sympathize with it, its exponents had no sympathy with him. His vogue with the public was
not likely to reconcile the most hungry for recognition of these young men to him; they were
meagerly fed, and their teeth were long, and they bit. Christophe was not put out by their spite.

"How thoroughly they do it!" he would say. "These boys are cutting their teeth...."

He was inclined to prefer them to the other puppies who fawned on him because of his success--those
people of whom D'Aubigne writes, who "when a mastiff plunges his nose into a butter-pot, come
and lick his whiskers by way of congratulation."

He had a piece accepted at the Opera. Almost at once it was put into rehearsal. Through a newspaper
attack Christophe learned that a certain young composer's piece had been postponed for it.
The writer of the article waxed indignant over such abuse of power, and made Christophe responsible
for it.

Christophe went to see the manager, and said:

"Why didn't you tell me? You must not do it. You must put on the opera you accepted before mine."

The manager protested, began to laugh, refused, covered Christophe's character, work, genius,
with flattery, and said that the other man's work was beneath contempt, and assured him that
it was worthless and would not make a sou.

"Why did you accept it then?"

"One can't always do as one likes. Every now and then one has to throw a sop to public opinion.
Formerly these young men could shout as much as they pleased. And no one listened to them.
But now they are able to let loose on us the nationalist Press, which roars 'Treason' and calls
you a disloyal Frenchman because you happen to have the misfortune to be unable to go into
ecstasies over the younger school. The younger school! Let's look at it!... Shall I tell you
what I think of it? I'm sick of it! So is the public. They bore us with their Oremus!... There's
no blood in their veins; they're like sacristans chanting Mass: their love ducts are like the
De Profundis.... If I were fool enough to put on the pieces I am compelled to accept, I should
ruin my theater. I accept them: that is all they can ask.--Let us talk of something serious.
Your work means a full house...."

And he went on with his compliments.

Christophe cut him short, and said angrily:

"I am not taken in. Now that I am old and have 'arrived,' you are using me to suppress the
young men. When I was a young man you would have suppressed me in just the same way. You must
play this boy's piece, or I shall withdraw my own."

The manager threw up his hands, and said:

"But don't you see that if we did what you want, it would look as if we were giving in to these
newspaper attacks?"

"What do I care?" said Christophe.

"As you please! You will be their first victim."

They put the young musician's piece into rehearsal without interrupting the preparation of
Christophe's. One was in three acts, the other in two: it was arranged to include them both
in one program. Christophe went to see the young man, for he wanted to be the first to give
him the news. The musician was loud in his promises of eternal gratitude.

Naturally Christophe could not make the manager not devote all his attention to his piece.
The interpretation and the scenery of the other were rather scamped. Christophe knew nothing
about it. He asked to be allowed to be present at a few rehearsals of the young man's opera:
he thought it very mediocre, as he had been told: he ventured to give a little advice which
was ill-received: he gave it up then, and did not interfere again. On the other hand, the manager
had made the young man admit the necessity for a little cutting to have his piece produced
in time. Though the sacrifice was easily consented to at first, it was not long before the
author regretted it.

On the evening of the performance the beginner's piece had no success, and Christophe's caused
a sensation. Some of the papers attacked Christophe: they spoke of a trick, a plot to suppress
a great young French artist: they said that his work had been mutilated to please the German
master, whom they represented to be basely jealous of the coming fame of all the new men. Christophe
shrugged his shoulders and thought:

"He will reply."

"He" did not reply. Christophe sent him one of the paragraphs with these words:

"Have you read this?"

The other replied:

"How sorry I am! The writer of it has always been so well disposed towards me! Really, I am
very sorry. The best thing is to pay no attention to it."

Christophe laughed and thought: "He is right! The little sneak."

And he decided to forget all about it.

But chance would have it that Georges, who seldom read the papers, and that hastily, except
for the sporting articles, should light on the most violent attacks on Christophe. He knew
the writer. He went to the cafe where he knew he would meet him, found him, struck him, fought
a duel with him, and gave him a nasty scratch on the shoulder with his rapier. Next day, at
breakfast, Christophe had a letter from a friend telling him of the affair. He was overcome.
He left his breakfast and hurried to see Georges. Georges himself opened the door. Christophe
rushed in like a whirlwind, seized him by the arms, and shook him angrily, and began to overwhelm
him with a storm of furious reproaches.

"You little wretch!" he cried. "You have fought a duel for me! Who gave you leave! A boy, a
fly-by-night, to meddle in my affairs! Do you think I can't look after myself? What good have
you done? You have done this rascal the honor of fighting him. He asked no more. You have made
him a hero. Idiot! And if it had chanced ... (I am sure you rushed at it like a madman as usual)
... if you had been wounded, killed perhaps!... You wretch! I should never have forgiven you
as long as you lived!..."

Georges laughed uproariously at this last threat, and was so overcome with merriment, that
he cried:

"My dear old friend, how funny you are! Ah! You're unique! Here are you insulting me for having
defended you! Next time I shall attack you. Perhaps you'll embrace me then."

Christophe stopped and hugged Georges, and kissed him on both cheeks, and then once more he said:

"My boy!... Forgive me. I am an old idiot.... But my blood boiled when I heard the news. What
made you think of fighting? You don't fight with such people. Promise me at once that you will
never do it again."

"I'll promise nothing of the kind," said Georges. "I shall do as I like."

"I forbid it. Do you hear? If you do it again, I'll never see you again. I shall publicly disown
you in the newspapers I shall...."

"You will disinherit me, you mean."

"Come, Georges. Please. What's the good of it?"

"My dear old friend, you are a thousand times a better man than I am, and you know infinitely
more: but I know these people better than you do. Make yourself easy. It will do some good.
They will think a little now before they let loose their poisonous insults upon you."

"But what can these idiots do to me? I laugh at anything they may say."

"But I don't. And you must mind your own business."

Thereafter Christophe lived on tenterhooks lest some fresh article might rouse Georges's susceptibilities.
It was quite comic to see him during the next few days going to a cafe and devouring the newspapers,
which he never read as a rule, ready to go to all lengths (even to trickery) if he found an
insulting article, to prevent it reaching Georges. After a week he recovered his equanimity.
The boy was right. His action had given the yelping curs food for a moment's reflection.--And,
though Christophe went on grumbling at the young lunatic who had made him waste eight working
days, he said to himself that, after all, he had no right to lecture him. He remembered a certain
day, not so very long ago, when he himself had fought a duel for Olivier's sake. And he thought
he heard Olivier's voice saying:

"Let be, Christophe. I am giving you back what you lent me!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Though Christophe took the attacks on himself lightly, there was one other man who was very
far from such disinterestedness. This was Emmanuel.

The evolution of European thought was progressing swiftly. It was as though it had been accelerated
by mechanical inventions and the new motors. The stock of prejudices and hopes which in old
days were enough to feed humanity for twenty years was now exhausted in five years. The generations
of the mind were galloping ahead, one behind the other, often one trampling the other down,
with Time sounding the charge.--Emmanuel had been left behind.

The singer of French energy had never denied the idealism of his master, Olivier. Passionate
as was his national feeling, he identified himself with his worship of moral greatness. If
in his poetry he loudly proclaimed the triumph of France, it was because in her, by an act
of faith, he adored the loftiest ideas of modern Europe, the Athena Nike, the victorious Law
which takes its revenge on Force.--And now Force had awakened in the very heart of Law, and
it was springing up in all its savage nakedness. The new generation, robust and disciplined,
was longing for combat, and, before its victory was won, had the attitude of mind of the conqueror.
This generation was proud of its strength, its thews, its mighty chest, its vigorous senses
so thirsting for delight, its wings like the wings of a bird of prey hovering over the plains,
waiting to swoop down and try its talons. The prowess of the race, the mad flights over the
Alps and the sea, the new crusades, not much less mystic, not much less interested than those
of Philip Augustus and Villehardouin, had turned the nation's head. The children of the nation
who had never seen war except in books had no difficulty in endowing it with beauty. They became
aggressive. Weary of peace and ideas, they hymned the anvil of battle, on which, with bloody
fists, action would one day new-forge the power of France. In reaction against the disgusting
abuse of systems of ideas, they raised contempt of the idea to the level of a profession of
faith. Blusteringly they exalted narrow common sense, violent realism, immodest national egoism,
trampling underfoot the rights of others and other nations, when it served the turn of their
country's greatness. They were xenophobes, anti-democrats, and--even the most skeptical of
them--set up the return to Catholicism, in the practical necessity for "digging channels for
the absolute," and shutting up the infinite under the surveillance of order and authority.
They were not content to despise--they regarded the gentle dotards of the preceding generation,
the visionary idealists, the humanitarian thinkers of the preceding generation, as public malefactors.
Emmanuel was among them in the eyes of the young men. He suffered cruelly and was very angry.

The knowledge that Christophe was, like himself,--more than himself--the victim of their injustice,
made him sympathetic. His ungraciousness had discouraged Christophe's visits. He was too proud
to show his regret by seeking him out. But he contrived to meet him, as if by chance, and forced
Christophe to make the first advances. Thereafter his umbrageous susceptibilities were at rest,
and he did not conceal the pleasure he had in Christophe's company. Thereafter they often met
in each other's rooms.

Emmanuel confided his bitterness to Christophe. He was exasperated by certain criticisms, and,
thinking that Christophe was not sufficiently moved by them, he made him read some of the newspaper
appreciations of himself. Christophe was accused of not knowing the grammar of his work, of
being ignorant of harmony, of having stolen from other musicians, and, generally, of dishonoring
music. He was called: "This old toss-brain...." They said: "We have had enough of these convulsionaries.
We are order, reason, classic balance...."

Christophe was vastly entertained.

"It is the law," he said. "The young bury the old.... In my day, it is true, we waited until
a man was sixty before we called him an old man. They are going faster, nowadays.... Wireless
telegraphy, aeroplanes.... A generation is more quickly exploded.... Poor devils! They won't
last long! Let them despise us and strut about in the sun!"

But Emmanuel had not his sanity. Though he was fearless in thought, he was a prey to his diseased
nerves; with his ardent soul in his rickety body, he was driven on to the fight and was unfitted
for it. The animosity of certain opinions of his work drew blood.

"Ah!" he would say. "If the critics knew the harm they do artists by the unjust words they
throw out so recklessly, they would be ashamed of their trade."

"But they do know, my friend. That is the justification of their existence. Everybody must live."

"They are butchers. One is drenched with the blood of life, worn out by the struggle we have
to wage with art. Instead of holding out their hands to us, and compassionately telling us
of our faults, and brotherly helping us to mend them, they stand there with their hands in
their pockets and watch you dragging your burden up the slope, and say: 'You can't do it!'
And when you reach the top, some of them say: 'Yes, but that is not the way to climb up.' While
the others go on blandly saying: 'You couldn't do it!...' You're lucky if they don't send great
stones rolling down on you to send you flying!"

"Bah! There are plenty of good men among them, and think of the good they can do! There are
bad men everywhere. They're not peculiar to criticism. Do you know anything worse than an ungenerous,
vain, and embittered artist, to whom the world is only loot, that he is furious because he
cannot grab? You must don patience for your protection. There is no evil but it may be of good
service. The worst of the critics is useful to us; he is a trainer: he does not let us loiter
by the way. Whenever we think we have reached the goal, the pack hound us on. Get on! Onward!
Upward! They are more likely to weary of running after me than I am of marching ahead of them.
Remember the Arabian proverb: 'It is no use flogging sterile trees. Only those are stoned whose
front is crowned with golden fruit....' Let us pity the artists who are spared. They will stay
half-way, lazily sitting down. When they try to get up their legs will be so stiff that they
will be unable to walk. Long live my friend the enemy! They do me more good in my life than
the enemy, my friend!"

Emmanuel could not help smiling. Then he said:

"All the same, don't you think it hard for a veteran like you to be taken to task by recruits
who are just approaching their first battle?"

"They amuse me," said Christophe. "Such arrogance is the mark of young, hot blood tingling
to be up and doing. I was like that once. They are like the showers of March falling on the
new-born soil.... Let them take us to task! They are right, after all. Old people must learn
from the young! They have profited by us, and are ungrateful: that is in the order of things.
But, being enriched by our efforts, they will go farther than we, and will realize what we
attempted. If we still have some youth left, let us learn in our turn, and try to rejuvenate
ourselves. If we cannot, if we are too old, let us rejoice in them. It is fine to see the perpetual
new-flowering of the human soul that seemed, exhausted, the vigorous optimism of these young
men, their delight in action and adventures, the races springing to new life for the conquest
of the world."

"What would they be without us? Their joy is the fruit of our tears. Their proud force is the
flower of the sufferings of a whole generation. Sic vos non nobis...."

"The old saying is wrong. It is for ourselves that we worked, and our reward lies in the creation
of a race of men who shall surpass us. We amassed their treasury, we hoarded it in a wretched
hovel open to all the winds of Heaven: we had to strain every nerve to keep the doors closed
against death. Our arms carved out the triumphal way along which our sons shall march. Our
sufferings have saved the future. We have borne the Ark to the threshold of the Promised Land.
It will reach that Land with them, and through us."

"Will they ever remember those who crossed the wilderness, bearing the sacred fire, the gods
of our race, and them, those children, who now are men? For our share we have had tribulation
and ingratitude."

"Do you regret it?"

"No. There is a sort of intoxication in the tragic grandeur of the sacrifice of a mighty epoch
like ours to the epoch that it has brought into being. The men of to-day would not be more
capable of tasting the sovereign joy of renunciation."

"We have been the happier. We have scaled Mount Nebo, at whose feet lie stretched the countries
that we shall never enter. But we enjoy them more than those who will enter them. When you
descend to the plain, you lose sight of the plain's immensity and the far horizon."

       *       *       *       *       *

The soothing influence that Christophe exercised over Georges and Emmanuel had the source of
its power in Grazia's love. It was through this love that he felt himself so near to all young
things, and had an inexhaustible fund of sympathy for every new form of life. Whatever the
forces might be that rekindled the earth, he was always with them, even when they were against
him: he had no fear for the immediate future of the democracies, that future which caused such
an outcry against the egoism of a handful of privileged men: he did not cling desperately to
the paternosters of an old art: he felt quite sure that from the fabulous visions, the realized
dreams of science and action, a new art, more puissant than the old, would spring forth: he
hailed the new dawn of the world, even though the beauty of the old world were to die with it.

Grazia knew the good that her love did for Christophe: and this consciousness of her power
lifted her out of herself. Through her letters she exercised a controlling power over her friend.
She was not so absurdly pretentious as to try to control his art: she had too much tact, and
knew her limitations. But her true, pure voice was the diapason to which he attuned his soul.
Christophe had only to hear her voice echoing his thought to think nothing that was not just,
pure, and worthy of repetition. The sound of a beautiful instrument is to a musician like a
beautiful body in which his dream at once becomes incarnate. Mysterious is the fusion of two
loving spirits: each takes the best from the other, but only to give it back again enriched
with love. Grazia was not afraid to tell Christophe that she loved him. Distance gave her more
freedom of speech, and also, the certain knowledge that she would never be his. Her love, the
religious fervor of which was communicated to Christophe, was a fountain of force and peace to him.

Grazia gave to others more of such force and peace than she had herself. Her health was shattered,
her moral balance seriously affected. Her son's condition did not improve. For the last two
years she had lived in a perpetual state of anxiety, aggravated by Lionello's fatal skill in
playing on it. He had acquired a consummate mastery of the art of keeping those who loved him
on tenterhooks: his idle mind was most fertile in inventing ways of rousing interest in himself
and tormenting others: it had become a mania with him. And the tragedy of it was, that, while
he aped the ravages of disease, the disease did make real inroads upon him, and death peeped
forth. Then the expected happened: Grazia, having been tortured by her son for years with his
imaginary illness, ceased to believe in it when the illness really came. The heart has its
limitations. She had exhausted her store of pity over his lies. She thought Lionello was still
a comedian when he spoke the truth. And when the truth was revealed to her, the rest of her
life was poisoned by remorse.

Lionello's malice had not laid aside its weapons. Having no love for any one in the world,
he could not bear any of those near him to feel love for any one else: jealousy was his only
passion. It was not enough for him to have separated his mother and Christophe: he tried to
force her to break off the intimacy which subsisted between them. Already he had employed his
usual weapon--his illness--to make Grazia swear that she would not marry again. He was not
satisfied with her promise. He tried to force his mother to give up writing to Christophe.
On this she rebelled; and, being delivered by such an attempted abuse of power, she spoke harshly
and severely to Lionello about his habit of lying, and, later on, regarded herself as a criminal
for having done so: for her words flung Lionello into a fit of fury which made him really ill.
His illness grew worse as he saw that his mother did not believe in it. Then, in his fury,
he longed to die so as to avenge himself. He never thought that his wish would be granted.

When the doctor told Grazia that there was no hope for her son, she was dumfounded. But she
had to disguise her despair in order to deceive the boy who had so often deceived her. He had
a suspicion that this time it was serious, but he refused to believe it; and his eyes watched
his mother's eyes for the reproachful expression that had infuriated him when he was lying.
There came a time when there was no room for doubt. Then it was terrible, both for him and
his mother and sister: he did not wish to die....

When at last Grazia saw him sinking to sleep, she gave no cry and made no moan: she astonished
those about her by her silence: she had no strength left for suffering: she had only one desire,
to sleep also. However, she went about the business of her life with the same apparent calm.
After a few weeks her smile returned to her lips, but she was more silent still. No one suspected
her inward distress, Christophe least of all. She had only written to tell him the news, without
a word of herself. She did not answer Christophe's anxiously affectionate letters. He wanted
to come to her: she begged him not to. At the end of two or three months, she resumed her old
grave, serene tone with him. She would have thought it criminal to put upon him the burden
of her weakness. She knew how the echo of all her feelings reverberated in him, and how great
was his need to lean on her. She did not impose upon herself the restraint of sorrow. This
discipline was her salvation. In her weariness of life only two things gave her life: Christophe's
love, and the fatalism, which, in sorrow as in joy, lay at the heart of her Italian nature.
There was nothing intellectual in her fatalism: it was the animal instinct, which makes a hunted
beast go on, with no consciousness of fatigue, in a staring wide-eyed dream, forgetting the
stones of the road, forgetting its own body, until it falls. Her fatalism sustained her body.
Love sustained her heart. Now that her own life was worn out, she lived in Christophe. And
yet she was more scrupulous than ever never in her letters to tell him of the love she had
for him: no doubt because her love was greater: but also because she was conscious of the veto
of the dead boy, who had made her affection a crime. Then she would relapse into silence, and
refrain from writing for a time.

Christophe did not understand her silence. Sometimes in the composed and tranquil tone of one
of her letters he would be conscious of an unexpected note that seemed to be quivering with
passionate moaning. That would prostrate him: but he dared not say anything: he hardly dared
to notice it: he was like a man holding his breath, afraid to breathe, for fear of destroying
an illusion. He knew almost infallibly that in the next letter such notes as these would be
atoned for by a deliberate coldness. Then, once more, tranquillity ... Meeresstille....

       *       *       *       *       *

Georges and Emmanuel met at Christophe's one afternoon. Both were preoccupied with their own
troubles: Emmanuel with his literary disappointments, and Georges with some athletic failure.
Christophe listened to them good-humoredly and teased them affectionately. There was a ring
at the door. Georges went to open it. A servant had come with a letter from Colette. Christophe
stood by the window to read it. His friends went on with their discussion, and did not see
Christophe, whose back was turned to them. He left the room without their noticing it. And
when they realized that he had done so, they were not surprised. But as time passed and he
did not return, Georges went and knocked at the door of the next room. There was no reply.
Georges did not persist, for he knew his old friend's queer ways. A few minutes later Christophe
returned without a word. He seemed very calm, very kind, very gentle. He begged their pardon
for leaving them, took up the conversation where he had left it, and spoke kindly about their
troubles, and said many helpful things. The tone of his voice moved them, though they knew not why.

They left him. Georges went straight to Colette's, and found her in tears. As soon as she saw
him she came swiftly to him and asked:

"How did our poor friend take the blow? It is terrible."

Georges did not understand. And Colette told him that she had just sent Christophe the news
of Grazia's death.

She was gone, without having had time to say farewell to anybody. For several months past the
roots of her life had been almost torn out of the earth: a puff of wind was enough to lay it
low. On the evening before the relapse of influenza which carried her off she received a long,
kind letter from Christophe. It had filled her with tenderness, and she longed to bid him come
to her: she felt that everything else, everything that kept them apart, was absurd and culpable.
She was very weary, and put off writing to him until the next day. On the day after she had
to stay in bed. She began a letter which she did not finish: she had an attack of giddiness,
and her head swam: besides, she was reluctant to speak of her illness, and was afraid of troubling
Christophe. He was busy at the time with rehearsals of a choral symphony set to a poem of Emmanuel's:
the subject had roused them both to enthusiasm, for it was something symbolical of their own
destiny: The Promised Land. Christophe had often mentioned it to Grazia. The first performance
was to take place the following week.... She must not upset him. In her letter Grazia just
spoke of a slight cold. Then that seemed too much to her. She tore up the letter, and had no
strength left to begin another. She told herself that she would write in the evening. When
the evening came it was too late--too late to bid him come, too late even to write.... How
swiftly everything passes! A few hours are enough to destroy the labor of ages.... Grazia hardly
had time to give her daughter a ring she wore and beg her to send it to her friend. Till then
she had not been very intimate with Aurora. Now that her life was ebbing away, she gazed passionately
at the face of the girl: she clung to the hand that would pass on the pressure of her own,
and, joyfully, she thought:

"Not all of me will pass away."

"Quid? hic, inquam, quis est qui complet aures meas tantus et tam dulcis sonus?..."--(The Dream
of Scipio.)

When he left Colette, on an impulse of sympathy Georges went back to Christophe's. For a long
time, through Colette's indiscretions, he had known the place that Grazia filled in his old
friend's heart: he had even--(for youth is not respectful)--made fun of it. But now generously
and keenly he felt the sorrow that Christophe must be feeling at such a loss; and he felt that
he must go to him, embrace him, pity him. Knowing the violence of his passions,--the tranquillity
that Christophe had shown made him anxious. He rang the bell. No answer. He rang once more
and knocked, giving the signal agreed between Christophe and himself. He heard the moving of
a chair and a slow, heavy tread. Christophe opened the door. His face was so calm that Georges
stopped still, just as he was about to fling himself into his arms: he knew not what to say.
Christophe asked him gently:

"You, my boy. Have you forgotten something?"

Georges muttered uneasily:

"Yes."

"Come in."

Christophe went and sat in the chair he had left on Georges's arrival, near the window, with
his head thrown back, looking at the roofs opposite and the reddening evening sky. He paid
no attention to Georges. The young man pretended to look about on the table, while he stole
glances at Christophe. His face was set: the beams of the setting sun lit up his cheek-bones
and his forehead. Mechanically Georges went into the next room--the bedroom--as though he were
still looking for something. It was in this room that Christophe had shut himself up with the
letter. It was still there on the bed, which bore the imprint of a body. On the floor lay a
book that had slipped down. It had been left open with a page crumpled. Georges picked it up,
and read the story of the meeting of the Magdalene and the Gardener in the Gospel.

He came back into the living-room, and moved a few things here and there to gain countenance,
and once more he looked at Christophe, who had not budged. He longed to tell him how he pitied
him. But Christophe was so radiant with light that Georges felt that it was out of place to
speak. It was rather himself who stood in need of consolation. He said timidly:

"I am going."

Without turning his head, Christophe said:

"Good-by, my boy."

Georges went away and closed the door without a sound.

For a long time Christophe sat there. Night came. He was not suffering: he was not thinking:
he saw no definite image. He was like a tired man listening to some vague music without making
any attempt to understand it. The night was far gone when he got up, cramped and stiff. He
flung himself on his bed and slept heavily. The symphony went on buzzing all around him....

And now he saw her, the well-beloved.... She held out her hands to him, and said, smiling:

"Now you have passed through the zone of fire."

Then his heart melted. An indescribable peace filled the starry spaces, where the music of
the spheres flung out its great, still, profound sheets of water....

When he awoke (it was day), his strange happiness still endured, with the distant gleam of
words falling upon his ears. He got up. He was exalted with a silent, holy enthusiasm.

  "... Or vedi, figlio,
   tra Beatrice e te e questo muro...."

Between Beatrice and himself, the wall was broken down. For a long time now more than half
his soul had dwelt upon the other side. The more a man lives, the more a man creates, the more
a man loves and loses those whom he loves, the more does he escape from death. With every new
blow that we have to bear, with every new work that we round and finish, we escape from ourselves,
we escape into the work we have created, the soul we have loved, the soul that has left us.
When all is told, Rome is not in Rome: the best of a man lies outside himself. Only Grazia
had withheld him on this side of the wall. And now in her turn.... Now the door was shut upon
the world of sorrow.

He lived through a period of secret exaltation. He felt the weight of no fetters. He expected
nothing of the things of this world. He was dependent upon nothing. He was set free. The struggle
was at an end. Issuing from the zone of combat and the circle where reigned the God of heroic
conflict, Dominus Deus Sabaoth, he looked down, and in the night saw the torch of the Burning
Bush put out. How far away it was! When it had lit up his path he had thought himself almost
at the summit. And since then, how far he had had to go! And yet the topmost pinnacle seemed
no nearer. He would never reach it (he saw that now), though he were to march on to eternity.
But when a man enters the circle of light and knows that he has not left those he loves behind
him, eternity is not too long a space to be journeying on with them.

He closed his doors. No one knocked. Georges had expended all his compassion and sympathy in
the one impulse; he was reassured by the time he reached home, and forgot all about it by the
next day. Colette had gone to Rome. Emmanuel knew nothing, and hypersensitive as usual, he
maintained an affronted silence because Christophe had not returned his visit. Christophe was
not disturbed in his long colloquy with the woman whom he now bore in his soul, as a pregnant
woman bears her precious burden. It was a moving intercourse, impossible to translate into
words. Even music could hardly express it. When his heart was full, almost overflowing, Christophe
would lie still with eyes closed, and listen to its song. Or, for hours together, he would
sit at his piano and let his fingers speak. During this period he improvised more than he had
done in the whole of his life. He did not set down his thoughts. What was the good?

When, after several weeks, he took to going out again and seeing other men, while none of his
friends, except Georges, had any suspicion of what had happened, the daimon of improvisation
pursued him still. It would take possession of Christophe just when he was least expecting
it. One evening, at Colette's, Christophe sat down at the piano and played for nearly an hour,
absolutely surrendering himself, and forgetting that the room was full of strangers. They had
no desire to laugh. His terrible improvisations enslaved and overwhelmed them. Even those who
did not understand their meaning were thrilled and moved: and tears came to Colette's eyes....
When Christophe had finished he turned away abruptly: he saw how everybody was moved, and shrugged
his shoulders, and--laughed.

He had reached the point at which sorrow also becomes a force--a dominant force. His sorrow
possessed him no more: he possessed his sorrow: in vain it fluttered and beat upon its bars:
he kept it caged.

From that period date his most poignant and his happiest works: a scene from the Gospel which
Georges recognized--

"Mulier, quid ploras?"--"Quia tulerunt Dominium meum, et nescio ubi posuerunt eum."

Et cum hoec dixisset, conversa est retrorsum, et vidit Jesum stantem: et non sciebat quia Jesus
est.

--a series of tragic lieder set to verses of popular Spanish cantares, among others a gloomy
sad love-song, like a black flame--

  "Quisiera ser el sepulcro
  Donde a ti te han de enterrar,
  Para tenerte en mis brazos
  Por toda la eternidad."
("Would I were the grave, where thou art to be buried, that I might hold
thee in my arms through all eternity.")

--and two symphonies, called The Island of Tranquillity and The Dream of Scipio, in which,
more intimately than in any other of the works of Jean-Christophe Krafft, is realized the union
of the most beautiful of the forces of the music of his time: the affectionate and wise thought
of Germany with all its shadowy windings, the clear passionate melody of Italy, and the quick
mind of France, rich in subtle rhythms and variegated harmonies.

This "enthusiasm begotten of despair at the time of a great loss" lasted for a few months.
Thereafter Christophe fell back into his place in life with a stout heart and a sure foot.
The wind of death had blown away the last mists of pessimism, the gray of the Stoic soul, and
the phantasmagoria of the mystic chiaroscura. The rainbow had shone upon the vanishing clouds.
The gaze of heaven, purer, as though it had been laved with tears, smiled through them. There
was the peace of evening on the mountains.

IV

The fire smoldering in the forest of Europe was beginning to burst into flames. In vain did
they try to put it out in one place: it only broke out in another: with gusts of smoke and
a shower of sparks it swept from one point to another, burning the dry brushwood. Already in
the East there were skirmishes as the prelude to the great war of the nations. All Europe,
Europe that only yesterday was skeptical and apathetic, like a dead wood, was swept by the
flames. All men were possessed by the desire for battle. War was ever on the point of breaking
out. It was stamped out, but it sprang to life again. The world felt that it was the mercy
of an accident that might let loose the dogs of war. The world lay in wait. The feeling of
inevitability weighed heavily even upon the most pacifically minded. And ideologues, sheltered
beneath the massive shadow of the cyclops, Proudhon, hymned in war man's fairest title of nobility....

This, then, was to be the end of the physical and moral resurrection of the races of the West!
To such butchery they were to be borne along by the currents of action and passionate faith!
Only a Napoleonic genius could have marked out a chosen, deliberate aim for this blind, onward
rush. But nowhere in Europe was there any genius for action. It was as though the world had
chosen the most mediocre to be its governors. The force of the human mind was in other things.--So
there was nothing to be done but to trust to the declivity down which they were moving. This
both governors and governed were doing. Europe looked like a vast armed vigil.

Christophe remembered a similar vigil, when he had had Olivier's anxious face by his side.
But then the menace of war had been only a passing cloud. Now all Europe lay under its shadow.
And Christophe's heart also had changed. He could not share in the hatred of the nations. His
state of mind was like that of Goethe in 1813. How could a man fight without hatred? And how
could he hate without youth? He had passed through the zone of hatred. Which of the great rival
nations was the dearest to him? He had learned to know all their merits, and what the world
owed to them. When a man has reached a certain stage in the development of the soul "he knows
no nation, he feels the happiness or unhappiness of the neighboring peoples as his own." The
storm-clouds are at his feet. Around him is nothing but the sky--"the whole Heavens, the kingdom
of the eagle."

And yet Christophe was sometimes embarrassed by this ambient hostility. In Paris he was made
to feel too clearly that he was of the hostile race: even his friend Georges could not resist
the pleasure of giving vent, in his presence, to feelings about Germany which made him sad.
Then he rushed away, on the excuse that he wanted to see Grazia's daughter: and he went and
stayed for a time in Rome. But there the atmosphere was no more serene. The great plague of
national pride had spread there, and had transformed the Italian character. The Italians, whom
Christophe had known to be indifferent and indolent, were now thinking of nothing but military
glory, battle, conquests, Roman eagles flying over the sands of Libya: they believed they had
returned to the time of the Emperors. The wonderful thing was that this madness was shared,
with the best faith in the world, by the opposition parties, socialists and clericals, as well
as by the monarchists, and they had not the least idea that they were being unfaithful to their
cause. So little do politics and human reason count when the great epidemic passions sweep
over the nations. Such passions do not even trouble to suppress individual passions; they use
them; and everything converges on the one goal. In the great periods of action it was ever
thus. The armies of Henri IV., the Councils of Louis XIV., which forged the greatness of France,
numbered as many men of faith and reason as men of vanity, interest, and enjoyment. Jansenists
and libertines, Puritans and gallants, served the same destiny in serving their instincts.
In the forthcoming wars no doubt internationalists and pacificists will kindle the blaze, in
the conviction, like that of their ancestors of the Convention, that they are doing it for
the good of the nations and the triumph of peace.

With a somewhat ironical smile, Christophe, from the terrace of the Janiculum, looked down
on the disparate and harmonious city, the symbol of the universe which it dominated; crumbling
ruins, "baroque" facades, modern buildings, cypress and roses intertwined--every age, every
style, merged into a powerful and coherent unity beneath the clear light. So the mind should
shed over the struggling universe the order and light that are in it.

