We flung Granada behind us, dashing in among the foothills of the mountains, mounting a slippery
defile, with the rain like whips lashing our faces. Orchards flashed by; there was a rock tunnel,
where the lights shone fiercely on rough-hewn stone, and the thrum of the motor became a roar.

Out again, and still up, the beams from our lamps shooting across vineyards, plantations of
figs and pomegranates, and striking silver from the curves of the Guadalbullon River. A glimpse
of an old castle commanding a dark gorge, and we were at Jaen; then, presently, the road became
familiar, for we had travelled it before. At this very corner we had stopped to ask the way
of men who carried strange implements like fire-extinguishers, for this was Bailen; but now,
instead of receiving our first glimpse of Andalucía, we were leaving it behind.

Eighty miles out of two hundred and seventy we had come, though the pace had not been good.
Still the rain was ceasing, and we could make up for lost time, as country traffic had not
begun yet.

La Carolina, Santa Elena; the road was mounting for the well-remembered defile of Despeñaperros.
Hoot! went the siren, screaming along the face of tremendous cliffs, and a louder shriek rang
as if an echo. A line of fire down in the gorge meant the train from Madrid to Seville. It
glittered like a string of stars drawn across a spider’s-web viaduct, then vanished into a
tunnel, while we swept on towards the plains of La Mancha, Ropes crouched like a goblin over
his wheel.

Rain again, blurring villages, and sweeping through the stone streets of a town: fields once
more, and at last Manzanares. There Dick insisted that we should stop for food, lest strength
fail me when I should need it most; but I could not bear to go back to the fonda I knew, to
see the pretty girls there look at my pale face with shocked eyes, perhaps to have them question
me about the “white and gold angel.”

It was eight o’clock when we got away from the café, where we had spent some twenty minutes;
and the road was no longer clear. We were obliged to moderate our speed, and lost more time
than we could afford getting on to Aranjuez.

“Do your best now, Ropes,” I was saying, when the Gloria—for once perverse—burst a tyre with
a loud explosion. Ropes threw me a rueful look.

“I’d hoped to get through without trouble, sir,” he said, “but the car’s lain up for more than
five weeks, and there was no time last night to look her over.”

“You’ve done splendidly,” I assured him. “I’ll get out with Mr. Waring and stretch my legs.”

I was glad to walk, and still more glad to feel that instead of being exhausted as Dick had
prophesied, strength seemed coming back. As we strolled up and down, so sure was I of Dick’s
sympathy that I began to talk about my hopes and fears. He did not disappoint me, but once
or twice he answered absent-mindedly, with a far-off look in his eyes, and suddenly, with a
pang of remorse, I remembered that I had not once referred to the progress of his love affairs.
My own had preoccupied me to the exclusion of everything outside, and I had spoken of Pilar’s
only in connection with Monica.

Anathematizing myself aloud as an ungrateful and ungracious brute, I asked if Pilar had made
up her mind.

“You needn’t blame yourself,” he said. “All this time she’s kept me on tenter-hooks, because,
though she admitted liking me, she couldn’t reconcile her heart with her conscience. I got
the dear old Cherub’s blessing, and flaunted it in her face; but that wasn’t enough. I also
argued that it was her duty to marry me and try to make me as good as herself, but she seemed
to think it might work out the other way. Then you disappeared, and the last word she said
was that if I found you, she’d take it as a sign that San Cristóbal wanted the match; seems
he’s a matchmaking saint, when he’s in Spain, as well as a motoring one. So, you see, she’ll
have to keep her promise now; and I’ll owe my happiness to you.”

“I haven’t come back to life in vain, then,” I said. “It will be a good moment for me, whatever
happens, when I see my little sister Pilar again.”

“She’ll be at the royal bull-fight,” Dick sighed.

“I thought she hated bull-fights—for Vivillo’s sake.”

“It’s for Vivillo’s sake she’s going. She’s moved heaven and earth to get invitations.”

“And she’s succeeded.”

“Thereby hangs a tale. But I’m not going to bother you with it.”

I insisted, urging him the more to atone for past carelessness.

“Well, then,” he said with another sigh, “Vivillo’s fifth bull in the royal fight to-day.”

I was shocked, knowing how Pilar loved the noble brown beast, and how she had counted on possessing
him. But, if I had had my wits about me, I might have guessed last night how matters stood.
Dick had told me then that, in the impromptu scene between Carmona and the O’Donnels, with
Seville railway station for the stage, “the name of Vivillo had unfortunately come up.” Now,
Dick explained that Carmona had caught at the girl’s hasty words, had written his agent at
the ganadería instructing him not to part with the bull at any price, no matter how far negotiations
had gone with Colonel O’Donnel. A day or two later the agent was directed by telegram to send
Vivillo immediately to Madrid, as the Duke had offered him as a gift for the great show of
the royal bull-fight. This news had come to Pilar at Granada in an ill-spelled, but well-meaning
letter from Mateo, the ganadero.

“It was sheer spite,” went on Dick, “and Pilar was broken-hearted. If she hadn’t blurted out
Vivillo’s name in a temper, the bull might have been safe. Carmona wouldn’t have interested
himself, as he trusts his agent in all business matters. It’s true several of the grandee owners
of bull-farms have been asked to give each a picked bull for the royal fight, which is expected
to be the grandest affair of the generation; but Carmona could as well have given another instead
of Vivillo.”

“It’s like him,” I said. “Poor Pilar!”

“She’s simply ill. But queerly enough, she hasn’t given up hope yet—or hadn’t when she wrote,
and enclosed an invitation-ticket she’d contrived to get for me. She begged me to come if I
could, and ‘see her through,’ though I haven’t the vaguest notion what she means. All I know
is, she and the Cherub have been doing everything they could till the last minute to make an
exchange of bulls. The dear old chap rushed off to Madrid, as I said, to stir up the police
in your affair; and Pilar hoped she might get a chance to see Lady Monica, and ask what the
dickens she meant by throwing you over. But any spare time the two had, I guess they’ve put
in for Vivillo. They bought a fine Muira bull, at a tiptop price, and offered it to the authorities
in exchange for Vivillo, who has been at pasture for the last ten days, recruiting after being
boxed up for his long railroad journey. Whether Carmona had a hand in that part or not, anyhow
nothing could be done.”

“And Pilar is going to see her pet die!” I exclaimed.

“I can’t understand the Cherub allowing that,” said Dick. “I went to a bull-fight with him
the day after I got back to Seville. Jove, it was a sickener, though there were some fine moments,
I admit; and I can understand how Spaniards, brought up to understand every stroke, every move,
think it fine sport. But it isn’t sport for amateurs, and I haven’t been able to swallow beef
since; feel as if I’d been on visiting terms with it. Last touch of horror, each bull having
a name. Great Scott! how would it feel to be as intimate as that with sheep and chickens, so
you could speak of frying Lottie for breakfast, or grilling Maud with peas for lunch? Of course,
the royal bull-fight will be wonderful—something only seen when a Spanish king marries—but
I hate the thought of Pilar being there.”

“Her father’ll be with her,” I tried to console him.

“No, he won’t. His seat’s in a box. Hers has been given in Tendido Number 9, a space set apart
for the senoritas de la aristocracia to sit together, in smart dresses and mantillas, as if
they were part of the show.”

“Perhaps Monica will be there,” I said quickly.

“Not she. The Duke and Duchess of Carmona and the Duke’s fiancée and her mother will be in
a box next the royal bride and bridegroom; Pilar heard that, and wrote me. You see, they’re
in high favour at Court now, and Carmona’s ambition will be satisfied at last. The new Duchess
is to be a lady-in-waiting, and take up her duties when the King and Queen come back from their
honeymoon.”

“She never will take them up as Duchess of Carmona,” said I.

“Car ready,” announced Ropes, who had made record time in changing an inner tube, and was panting
with his exertions.

But where was San Cristóbal to-day—on this day of all others, when his services were needed?
We had not gone half a mile when there came a whizz, and a grinding noise which meant a broken
chain. Ropes grew pale and bit his lip. In his overpowering anxiety for me he was losing nerve.

“Never mind mending it here,” I said. “Tighten up the axle, and go on with one sprocket only.
We can get into the town that way, and find a machine-shop.”

We did find one; but we were kept a full hour in Aranjuez; nor could we make good going afterwards
as we approached the capital. The road was covered with vehicles, and packed as we neared Madrid;
for every soul not bidden to the great bull-fight wished to see the favoured ones who were,
and to applaud the King and Queen who by their splendid courage two days before had won double
popularity.

It was almost beyond endurance to be caught in the pack, and to know that there was no way
out, except to move with the throng; nevertheless, it had to be endured. And time went on.

We had hoped to run into some hole or corner as near as might be to the royal entrance of the
Plaza de Toros, before the crowd began to pour in; but an hour struck as we crept into the
great sunlit plaza—four o’clock; the time appointed for the pageant to begin.

                                   XLI

THE FIFTH BULL; AND AFTER

Hundreds—thousands, it seemed—of automobiles and carriages were before us; and as the Gloria
was stopped by the stopping of others in front, a shout rang up to the sky, from behind the
high brown walls of the bull-ring. It was the welcome which the public gave their King and
his bride as they appeared in the royal box.

We were too late to intercept Carmona; for as the royalties had taken their places, he was
certain to be already in his, with his fiancée by his side.

Covered with dust, burnt by the sun which had shone hotly since Manzanares, all but spent with
fatigue, I leaned back in my seat. For a moment I did not hear what Dick was saying, although
I was conscious that he spoke; but suddenly the meaning of his words broke in on my tired brain.

“It’ll be two hours before the King and Queen leave their box and lesser folks can move,” he
said. “I’m not going to have you sitting here in the heat and dust.”

“I must wait till they come out,” I answered dully. “It’s the only way.”

“No, it isn’t. I told you Pilar’d sent me a ticket. The card says ‘sombra,’ so the seat’s in
the shade all right, and you’re going to have it.”

“But you?” I said. “Pilar would never forgive me—”

“She’d never forgive me if I didn’t hand it over to you. But I’ll get in somehow. It can cost
me fifty dollars if it likes to slip past a policeman, but I guess the price won’t stop me.
I don’t mind if I stand up in the callijon. I’m tall enough to see all I want, and more; and
if a bull jumps over the barrera, as one did at Seville the other day, my legs are long enough
to save me.”

Ropes was to stay with the car and wait until we came again. Before that time my fate would
be decided. Nothing could keep me from meeting Monica now; and nothing should keep her from
me, if she loved me. If not—if after all I had been dreaming, why, she would be the Duchess
of Carmona to-morrow.

Under horses’ noses, between backs and bonnets of motors, we edged our way through the dense
crowd of vehicles and people massed together on the baking plain outside the bull-ring. The
circle which had been cleared for royalty had filled again now, like a sandbank which has caved
in upon itself; but the spectacle on the other side of those steep brown walls had begun, and
the main entrance was comparatively clear.

Armed with the ticket engraved with the magic words “Corrida Real” over a black and white sketch
of a mounted picador, I was allowed to enter. But when I had passed along a corridor and through
a door which opened into a crowded tendido, I heard Dick’s voice at my ear. “Only twenty-five
dollars after all,” said he, “and I can sit on the steps. Grand! We’re next to Tendido Number
9. I see Pilar; look—close to the end, front row.”

After the silent rooms of the old Moorish house and the little patio with its tinkling fountain,
the brilliant light and colour, the confused sounds and movement, the vast size of the bull-ring
struck me fiercely between the eyes, bewildering sight and sense.

Seats were valuable in the tendidos for this great day, when almost every place meant a royal
favour; but we were late, and instead of moving on to search for my twelve inches of plank
or stone, I was thankful to squeeze in close to the entrance. I did not see Colonel O’Donnel,
and though I was close to the famous Tendido Number 9 (which must have held every eye till
the royalties came), I forgot to look for Pilar in that white-and-rose garden of Spanish loveliness.

The first act of the great royal bull-fight had begun. Twenty glittering, spangled espadas
marched with elastic steps into the ring, followed by the yellow-trousered picadors on their
sorry horses. The three gala coaches carrying the distinguished amateur picadors and their
ducal patrons who graced this marriage feast, still circled picturesquely in the arena, making
a pageant of the Middle Ages. The sun blazed on nodding ostrich plumes, gold embroidered hammercloths,
dazzling liveries, powdered heads, and splendid horses in quaint harness, rich with gold and
jewels. The three Dukes, owners of the coaches, had introduced the cavaliers they patronized
to the King-President; the bride-Queen in her white mantilla and flowers of Spanish colours
stood bowing in the glass frame of the royal box. Gaily decorated palcos, tendidos, grados,
tier upon tier, half in sun, half in shadow, rose above the huge ring like so many terraced
flower-beds, dazzling with the gold lace of uniforms and the bright tints of women’s dresses
softened by white mantillas. Over all was a fluttering of fans, like thousands of hovering
butterflies; and a hum floated up loud as the humming of a million bees, to the blue dome of
sky, where English and Spanish flags waved together.

Mechanically my eyes took in the splendid scene, as they searched for Monica; and finding her,
for a time saw nothing else.

She was in a box near the royalties, and sat between her mother and the Duchess, with Carmona
and some man whom I did not know, behind them. She was in a white dress and white mantilla,
with pink and white malmaisons in her hair; and her face was pathetically pale in its frame
of falling lace. In her hand was a fan with which to shut out such horrors of the fight as
none but Spanish women born and bred dare trust themselves to see. My place was distant and
far below; yet my eyes were keen, and it seemed to me that she looked thin and frail, though
very beautiful. If for an instant, since Dick broke the news to me, I had doubted the loyalty
of her heart, the sight of her sad young face would have driven doubt away. I was more than
ever certain that in promising to marry Carmona she thought to save me from punishment threatened
by him.

Neither he nor she guessed that I was near. But where did she believe me to be? Perhaps Carmona
had said that for her sake he had let me fly danger after stabbing him in the cathedral, by
hurrying back to England.

The Duke was leaning forward to speak to her. She did not look up at him, but let her eyes
listlessly travel over the vast audience. I thought they lingered on Tendido Number 9, draped
with flowered shawls of Andalucía, and crowded with pretty women. Suddenly she blushed, and
turned away. I looked where she had looked, and knew what had brought the blood to her cheeks.
Pilar, in rose colour, with a white mantilla and the orthodox malmaisons, of pink and crimson,
was gazing up at the Carmona box, an imploring expression on her face. Pilar, too, was pale
and thin. I realized more and more that nearly six weeks had been struck out of my life.

Each of the three coaches had in its turn stopped under the royal box, while a ducal patron
presented his cavalier to the young King and his bride; now, the ring was being cleared as
the magnificent amateur picadors mounted their horses, which had been led round by squires
in the quaint dress of 1630. One of four dignified alguaziles in black velvet and lace doffed
his plumed hat to the King as President of the fight, asking the key of the bull’s cell. Down
it flashed, while the music stopped as if awed into silence, and the alguazil spurred his stallion
across the arena to fling into the montera of el Buñolero, janitor of the bull cells, the key
he had received.

“Vivillo is fifth bull,” I said to myself, repeating Dick’s words; and there, too, was his
name on the programme of the fight. Pilar’s favourite had still a little time to draw the breath
of life, stamping in the gloom of his narrow toril. Not yet had that untamed neck of his been
stung by the rosetted dart flaunting his owner’s colours; and much was to happen in the arena
before Vivillo’s brave beauty would call for the clapping of twice thirteen thousand hands.

First, the three noble amateurs, with their long sharp javelins, must each in turn play picador
with grace to please a queen-bride, and save his horse’s sides from goring horns. Then, when
three bulls had died according to ancient, chivalrous custom (if the cavalier’s skill served),
without slaughter of horses, the corrida would go on in ordinary Spanish fashion of to-day,
with all its sensational moments and its tragedies, until—Vivillo’s time came.

As for me, I must sit until the leave-taking of the royalties and royal guests should empty
also the Carmona box. I wondered, as the first bull rushed into the ring, whether the King
and Queen would still be in their places when the door should open for Vivillo, or whether
their departure would rob Carmona of the spectacle of his mean revenge. I hoped it would, for
I could not bear that he should see the suffering he had inflicted on Pilar for my sake, and
revel in it. Still, when he went I must go too; and I felt vaguely that I ought to be near
Pilar—my loyal sister Pilar—during the act which would be tragical for her.

As Dick said, there were brilliant moments in the bull-fight; and the amateurs acquitted themselves
in a way to deserve the enthusiasm of the crowd. The beautiful young Queen threw a jewel to
each torero who finished a bull after the javelins of the cavaliers had done their work; and
when the last of the brave trio had bowed himself out of the ring, began that phase of the
sport which Spaniards know and love. The blindfolded horses trotted in, ridden by professional
picadors with indifferent, sullen faces; and then a stir of excitement ran from tier to tier
of the audience, as a breeze blows over a wheat-field. The first part had been but a pretty
play; now was coming the real thing, with the best bulls, and the best espadas of Spain.

The bride in her white mantilla looked down at her fan, and counted the gilded ivory sticks,
when the first bull charged the first horse. She, the Queen of Spain, must not seem to flinch,
though her English eyes had never seen such crimson sights as these. This was the national
sport; she must learn to understand that when men yelled, and even women cried “Buena vara!”
it was not with joy because a horse’s side was torn, but because a picador had made the perfect
thrust. She must seem to love what the people loved, if she wished them to love her; but not
far off sat another young girl in white, who had no such compelling obligations.

Monica, warned beforehand perhaps, when she was forced to come, put up her fan whenever a bull
rushed towards a horse, and would no doubt have kept it there had not her mother spoken to
her more than once, peremptorily. As for Pilar, though she did not lift her fan, she seemed
to see nothing, for she sat with her head bowed, only starting and looking up when the horn
sounded for a new bull.

At last there was no more question as to whether the King and Queen would stay to see Vivillo
play his part. The fourth bull had been dragged away dead by the team of tasselled mules, and
the piercing blast, which had grown to sound tragic in my ears, summoned Vivillo, all unknowing,
to his fate. And the royalties kept their seats, though the afternoon waned, and shadow—like
the creeping shadow of death—darkened two-thirds of the arena.

So keen was my sympathy with Pilar that I felt my throat contract and my mouth go dry. So must
it be with her at this moment which called her brave favourite to his death; so, like mine,
only faster and more thickly, must her heart be beating.

Could she, after all, bear the ordeal? Would she not turn and hurry out before the first picador
drew the blood she had tried so hard to save? But no; she sat still, her eyes large, her face
blanched, and one hand twisted in the folds of her lace mantilla as it rose and fell on her breast.

Before the dead was well out of the ring, and his red track sanded, the door of the toril was
thrown open for the fifth bull, said never to be a coward. It was a compliment to Carmona and
to Vivillo to be chosen for this position on the programme, since it has become a proverb that
the pick of the corrida should be fifth on the list. It was also a compliment to Carmona that
the King should wait to see how his Vivillo would die.

The buñolero sprang back as he opened the door, retiring more hastily than was his wont into
the space between the barriers out of the bull’s way. It was as if he, too, expected the new-comer
to be something beyond the ordinary in ferocity or cunning; for Carmona’s bulls, like those
of the Muira breed, are famed for their terrible habit of ignoring the cloak and charging at
the body of the man who holds it.

Some bulls had rushed into the arena and blindly attacked the first object which came within
their dazed vision; but my heart had time to beat twice before that noble form, which I had
last seen in peaceful pasture, deigned to show itself at the dark exit of the toril.

It was as if Vivillo wished to prove how he scorned the puny prick of that fish-hook dart hidden
by a rosette of green and purple ribbon, supreme indifference to the strange scene which burst
upon eyes accustomed for long to darkness, and haughty superiority to thirst and hunger which
irritated weaker animals to frenzy. No one, seeing the great bull stand with his head up, questioning,
surprised, could have mistaken his attitude for cowardice. There was something ominous, even
terrible, in his pause; and it gave the waiting audience time to appreciate the magnificence
of his proportions, the length and dagger-keenness of his horns, the rippling of the muscles
under the brown satin of his skin, in the great chest and lean flanks.

“This is not a bull,—it is a mountain,” shouted a voice; and other voices praised Vivillo’s
perfections, so soon to vanish off the earth. “Grandly armed!” “He would face a battalion!”
“Let Fuentes look out for himself!”

For Fuentes, best espada left in Spain, bravest fighter of bulls according to the classic methods,
was to give Vivillo the death stroke, when picadores and banderilleros had done with him.

The yells of the vast multitude in an instant changed the bull’s proud astonishment to fury.
He seemed to realize that this new world, so different from the old sweet, green one, was a
world of enemies, every soul against him, and he was ready to fight them all to the death.
He neither pawed the sand nor bellowed, for these are puerile betrayals of temper to which
the noblest bulls do not descend. Like a tornado he swept across the ring, killed a horse with
a single thrust, sent the picador crashing against the barrera; and quick as a wild cat, strong
as an African lion, wheeled to lift another animal and its rider on his horns. Half the length
of the arena he trotted, upholding both, whilst the audience rose to him and yelled admiration
of his savage strength.

“This is like the good old days. You don’t see such a bull in ten thousand,” men said to each
other, as Vivillo flung the dead horse on the sand, tumbling the picador over the barrera into
the callijon, and raced off gamely to a third duel.

When he had killed three horses (knowing no distinction between their innocence and man’s cruelty,
after his shoulders had felt the lance) he was apparently as fresh as when he left the toril.
At this stage of the death drama most bulls would be breathing hard; but though the brown velvet
of Vivillo’s neck was stained dark crimson, neither fatigue nor pain made his strong heart labour.

More horses were given him, to die as others had died, all save one, which the bull refused
to touch because it was of the colour he knew and was friendly with at home. It was led at
last unscathed; but Vivillo had now six horses to his credit, and his popularity with the audience
had already risen far beyond that of his predecessors. Still, his activity, instead of diminishing,
seemed to grow with the rising fever of his fury.

In ordinary cases the trumpet would now have sounded for the second act, dismissing the picadors
and summoning the banderilleros; but Vivillo in his present condition was too formidable a
foe to be teased by the bravest with barbed, beribboned darts; and “Caballos—caballos!” was
the cry.

Four more sacrificial beasts were brought, and he dealt with all, so nearly goring one picador
that an espada, dashing to the rescue, was raced to the barrier, and had his stocking crimsoned
as he vaulted over it.

Vivillo’s list of victims had now swelled to ten, and though he had accepted thirty-three varas,
or thrusts of the lance, his great shoulders scarcely shuddered under the red rain of his blood.
Still, the first act could not be further prolonged. The sharp, cruel blast of the cornet gave
the signal for the second to begin.

Dick and I had not spoken, and I dared not look towards Pilar. As the crowd shouted an imperious
demand for the great Fuentes to come into the ring as banderillero, it seemed to me that centuries
were swept away by their wild voices; that this was not the bull-ring of Madrid, but the Coliseum
of Rome.

Vivillo waited, his head up, undaunted; and though his face and attitude were menacing, the
brown eyes, set wide apart, were radiantly innocent. He seemed a creature made up of nature’s
best, a product of blue sky, sweet meadow, and pure air; of his kind, perfection. Did he think
now of his old home in the rich pasture-land, and the tinkle of the friendly cabestros’ bells?
If he did, the home-sick thought did not make him fear to face what was to come. Never once
had he followed the example of two or three among his predecessors, and turned towards the
shut door of the toril as if for refuge. Always he had faced the enemy; and now he rushed to
play with his horns for the glittering banderillas which waited for his shoulders.

Fuentes was consenting to the wish of the public, but two ordinary banderilleros were to precede
him. The famous matador, who was afterwards to kill this most popular bull of the day, would
plant the last pair of the six.

The first man, sparkling in satin and silver, lifted on high his two barb-tipped sticks, gaily
ornamented with tinsel paper, and called Vivillo from a distance. His mocking voice infuriated
the bull, who rushed upon him; then, as he swayed lightly aside, it was all he could do to
save himself from the great animal’s sudden, swift turn, without placing either of his banderillas.
Again and again the play was repeated, but the audience were saying that Vivillo was becoming
crafty as Shylock. At last one gay-coloured stick—“half a pair”—hung from Vivillo’s shoulders;
twice and three times the attempt was made before the “pair” was complete; and the second banderillero
succeeded no better. But as Fuentes entered the ring, condescending to play at the game of
which he was once master, there went up a roar of applause. Fuentes never failed; and that
trick of his—planting both feet on a handkerchief, nor deigning to move save for a swaying
of the body while planting the two barbs—was famous, a sight worth seeing when the bull was
even half as good as this. But for once even Fuentes’ brilliant tactics were at a loss. Vivillo
had brains, and used them. He used his eyes, too, before charging, which not one out of five
hundred bulls can do; and if Fuentes played with him, he played also, a game whose zest came
from a hint of pressing danger. Once it seemed that Vivillo would be over the barrera, in the
callijon, and there was a stampede of all the onlookers there. Again he threatened to demolish
the wooden barrier with his horns, and there was a wilder scramble than before. But the banderillas
were planted at last, and the blood on Vivillo’s brown shoulders lay like a crimson cloak.
The great round of applause was as much for the bull as for the banderillero; and every face
in the audience was tense with excitement as the horn sounded for the death scene. With such
a king of the arena anything might happen. It was well that a master like Fuentes was the espada
who would deal with him, or he might deal with the espada.

And so it was to end in the usual tragedy, and after a few more brilliant moments of play the
brave heart of the beast must feel the sword. I had known, of course, that it must be so, and
yet until now it had not seemed a cold certainty. Perhaps I had vaguely hoped that Vivillo
would vault the barrera, and refuse to be coaxed back again; but, even if he had, he could
not have saved himself, and might have had to die some death less glorious than by the espada’s
blade.

