"Will I?" said Henriette, beaming with happiness--for when a woman is very much in love she
doesn't in the least object to the man's being jealous.

"Yes, indeed," smiled George. "I'll always be watching you."

"Watching me?" echoed the girl with a surprised look.

And immediately he felt ashamed of himself for his jest. There could be no need to watch Henriette,
and it was bad taste even to joke about it at such a time. That was one of the ideas which
he had brought with him from his world of evil.

The truth was, however, that George would always be a suspicious husband; nothing could ever
change that fact, for there was something in his own conscience which he could not get out,
and which would make it impossible for him to be at ease as a married man. It was the memory
of something which had happened earlier in his life before he met Lizette. There had been one
earlier experience, with the wife of his dearest friend. She had been much younger than her
husband, and had betrayed an interest in George, who had yielded to the temptation. For several
years the intrigue continued, and George considered it a good solution of a young man's problem.
There had been no danger of contamination, for he knew that his friend was a man of pure and
rigid morals, a jealous man who watched his wife, and did not permit her to contract those
new relations which are always dangerous. As for George, he helped in this worthy work, keeping
the woman in terror of some disease. He told her that almost all men were infected, for he
hoped by this means to keep her from deceiving him.

I am aware that this may seem a dreadful story. As I do not want anyone to think too ill of
George Dupont, I ought, perhaps, to point out that people feel differently about these matters
in France. In judging the unfortunate young man, we must judge him by the customs of his own
country, and not by ours. In France, they are accustomed to what is called the MARIAGE DE CONVENANCE.
The young girl is not permitted to go about and make her own friends and decide which one of
them she prefers for her husband; on the contrary, she is strictly guarded, her training often
is of a religious nature, and her marriage is a matter of business, to be considered and decided
by her parents and those of the young man. Now, whatever we may think right, it is humanly
certain that where marriages are made in that way, the need of men and women for sympathy and
for passionate interest will often lead to the forming of irregular relationships after marriage.
It is not possible to present statistics as to the number of such irregular relationships in
Parisian society; but in the books which he read and in the plays which he saw, George found
everything to encourage him to think that it was a romantic and delightful thing to keep up
a secret intrigue with the wife of his best friend.

It should also, perhaps, be pointed out that we are here telling the truth, and the whole truth,
about George Dupont; and that it is not customary to tell this about men, either in real life
or in novels. There is a great deal of concealment in the world about matters of sex; and in
such matters the truth-telling man is apt to suffer in reputation in comparison with the truth-concealing
one.

Nor had George really been altogether callous about the thing. It had happened that his best
friend had died in his arms; and this had so affected the guilty pair that they had felt their
relationship was no longer possible. She had withdrawn to nurse her grief alone, and George
had been so deeply affected that he had avoided affairs and entanglements with women until
his meeting with Lizette.

All this was now in the far distant past, but it had made a deeper impression upon George than
he perhaps realized, and it was now working in his mind and marring his happiness. Here was
a girl who loved him with a noble and unselfish and whole-hearted love--and yet he would never
be able to trust her as she deserved, but would always have suspicions lurking in the back
of his mind. He would be unable to have his friends intimate in his home, because of the memory
of what he had once done to a friend. It was a subtle kind of punishment. But so it is that
Nature often finds ways of punishing us, without our even being aware of it.

That was all for the future, however. At present, George was happy. He put his black sin behind
him, feeling that he had obtained absolution by his confession to Henriette. Day by day, as
he realized his good fortune, his round face beamed with more and yet more joy.

He went for a little trip to Henriette's home in the country. It was a simple village, and
they took walks in the country, and stopped to refresh themselves at a farmhouse occupied by
one of M. Loches' tenants. Here was a rosy and buxom peasant woman, with a nursing child in
her arms. She was destined a couple of years later to be the foster-mother of Henriette's little
girl and to play an important part in her life. But the pair had no idea of that at present.
They simply saw a proud and happy mother, and Henriette played with the baby, giving vent to
childish delight. Then suddenly she looked up and saw that George was watching her, and as
she read his thoughts a beautiful blush suffused her cheeks.

As for George, he turned away and went out under the blue sky in a kind of ecstasy. Life seemed
very wonderful to him just then; he had found its supreme happiness, which was love. He was
really getting quite mad about Henriette, he told himself. He could hardly believe that the
day was coming when he would be able to clasp her in his arms.

But in the blue sky of George's happiness there was one little cloud of storm. As often happens
with storm-clouds, it was so small that at first he paid no attention to it at all.

He noted upon his body one day a tiny ulcer. At first he treated it with salve purchased from
an apothecary. Then after a week or two, when this had no effect, he began to feel uncomfortable.
He remembered suddenly he had heard about the symptoms of an unmentionable, dreadful disease,
and a vague terror took possession of him.

For days he tried to put it to one side. The idea was nonsense, it was absurd in connection
with a woman so respectable! But the thought would not be put away, and finally he went to
a school friend, who was a man of the world, and got him to talk on the subject. Of course,
George had to be careful, so that his friend should not suspect that he had any special purpose
in mind.

The friend was willing to talk. It was a vile disease, he said; but one was foolish to bother
about it, because it was so rare. There were other diseases which fellows got, which nearly
every fellow had, and to which none of them paid any attention. But one seldom met anyone who
had the red plague that George dreaded.

"And yet," he added, "according to the books, it isn't so uncommon. I suppose the truth is
that people hide it. A chap naturally wouldn't tell, when he knew it would damn him for life."

George had a sick sensation inside of him. "Is it as bad as that?" he asked.

"Of course," said the other, "Should you want to have anything to do with a person who had
it? Should you be willing to room with him or travel with him? You wouldn't even want to shake
hands with him!"

"No, I suppose not," said George, feebly.

