They did a lot of week-ending at hotels, and sometimes I went down with them. We seemed to
fall into a vast drifting crowd of social learners. I don't know whether it is due simply to
my changed circumstances, but it seems to me there have been immensely disproportionate developments
of the hotel-frequenting and restaurant-using population during the last twenty years. It is
not only, I think, that there are crowds of people who, like we were, are in the economically
ascendant phase, but whole masses of the prosperous section of the population must be altering
its habits, giving up high-tea for dinner and taking to evening dress, using the week-end hotels
as a practise-ground for these new social arts. A swift and systematic conversion to gentility
has been going on, I am convinced, throughout the whole commercial upper-middle class since
I was twenty-one. Curiously mixed was the personal quality of the people one saw in these raids.
There were conscientiously refined and low-voiced people reeking with proud bashfulness; there
were aggressively smart people using pet diminutives for each other loudly and seeking fresh
occasions for brilliant rudeness; there were awkward husbands and wives quarrelling furtively
about their manners and ill at ease under the eye of the winter; cheerfully amiable and often
discrepant couples with a disposition to inconspicuous corners, and the jolly sort, affecting
an unaffected ease; plump happy ladies who laughed too loud, and gentlemen in evening dress
who subsequently "got their pipes." And nobody, you knew, was anybody, however expensively
they dressed and whatever rooms they took.

I look back now with a curious remoteness of spirit to those crowded dining-rooms with their
dispersed tables and their inevitable red-shaded lights and the unsympathetic, unskillful waiters,
and the choice of "Thig or Glear, Sir?" I've not dined in that way, in that sort of place,
now for five years--it must be quite five years, so specialised and narrow is my life becoming.

My uncle's earlier motor-car phases work in with these associations, and there stands out a
little bright vignette of the hall of the Magnificent, Bexhill-on-Sea, and people dressed for
dinner and sitting about amidst the scarlet furniture--satin and white-enameled woodwork until
the gong should gather them; and my aunt is there, very marvelously wrapped about in a dust
cloak and a cage-like veil, and there are hotel porters and under-porters very alert, and an
obsequious manager; and the tall young lady in black from the office is surprised into admiration,
and in the middle of the picture is my uncle, making his first appearance in that Esquimaux
costume I have already mentioned, a short figure, compactly immense, hugely goggled, wearing
a sort of brown rubber proboscis, and surmounted by a table-land of motoring cap.

V

So it was we recognised our new needs as fresh invaders of the upper levels of the social system,
and set ourselves quite consciously to the acquisition of Style and Savoir Faire. We became
part of what is nowadays quite an important element in the confusion of our world, that multitude
of economically ascendant people who are learning how to spend money. It is made up of financial
people, the owners of the businesses that are eating up their competitors, inventors of new
sources of wealth, such as ourselves; it includes nearly all America as one sees it on the
European stage. It is a various multitude having only this in common: they are all moving,
and particularly their womankind are moving, from conditions in which means were insistently
finite, things were few, and customs simple, towards a limitless expenditure and the sphere
of attraction of Bond Street, Fifth Avenue, and Paris. Their general effect is one of progressive
revolution, of limitless rope.

They discover suddenly indulgences their moral code never foresaw and has no provision for,
elaborations, ornaments, possessions beyond their wildest dreams. With an immense astonished
zest they begin shopping begin a systematic adaptation to a new life crowded and brilliant
with things shopped, with jewels, maids, butlers, coachmen, electric broughams, hired town
and country houses. They plunge into it as one plunges into a career; as a class, they talk,
think, and dream possessions. Their literature, their Press, turns all on that; immense illustrated
weeklies of unsurpassed magnificence guide them in domestic architecture, in the art of owning
a garden, in the achievement of the sumptuous in motor-cars, in an elaborate sporting equipment,
in the purchase and control of their estates, in travel and stupendous hotels. Once they begin
to move they go far and fast. Acquisition becomes the substance of their lives. They find a
world organised to gratify that passion. In a brief year or so they are connoisseurs. They
join in the plunder of the eighteenth century, buy rare old books, fine old pictures, good
old furniture. Their first crude conception of dazzling suites of the newly perfect is replaced
almost from the outset by a jackdaw dream of accumulating costly discrepant old things.

I seem to remember my uncle taking to shopping quite suddenly. In the Beckenham days and in
the early Chiselhurst days he was chiefly interested in getting money, and except for his onslaught
on the Beckenham house, bothered very little about his personal surroundings and possessions.
I forget now when the change came and he began to spend. Some accident must have revealed to
him this new source of power, or some subtle shifting occurred in the tissues of his brain.
He began to spend and "shop." So soon as he began to shop, he began to shop violently. He began
buying pictures, and then, oddly enough, old clocks. For the Chiselhurst house he bought nearly
a dozen grandfather clocks and three copper warming pans. After that he bought much furniture.
Then he plunged into art patronage, and began to commission pictures and to make presents to
churches and institutions. His buying increased with a regular acceleration. Its development
was a part of the mental changes that came to him in the wild excitements of the last four
years of his ascent. Towards the climax he was a furious spender; he shopped with large unexpected
purchases, he shopped like a mind seeking expression, he shopped to astonish and dismay; shopped
crescendo, shopped fortissimo, con molto espressione until the magnificent smash of Crest Hill
eroded his shopping for ever. Always it was he who shopped. My aunt did not shine as a purchaser.
It is a curious thing, due to I know not what fine strain in her composition, that my aunt
never set any great store upon possessions. She plunged through that crowded bazaar of Vanity
Fair during those feverish years, spending no doubt freely and largely, but spending with detachment
and a touch of humorous contempt for the things, even the "old" things, that money can buy.
It came to me suddenly one afternoon just how detached she was, as I saw her going towards
the Hardingham, sitting up, as she always did, rather stiffly in her electric brougham, regarding
the glittering world with interested and ironically innocent blue eyes from under the brim
of a hat that defied comment. "No one," I thought, "would sit so apart if she hadn't dreams--and
what are her dreams?"

I'd never thought.

And I remember, too, an outburst of scornful description after she had lunched with a party
of women at the Imperial Cosmic Club. She came round to my rooms on the chance of finding me
there, and I gave her tea. She professed herself tired and cross, and flung herself into my
chair....

"George," she cried, "the Things women are! Do I stink of money?"

"Lunching?" I asked.

She nodded.

"Plutocratic ladies?"

"Yes."

"Oriental type?"

"Oh! Like a burst hareem!... Bragging of possessions.... They feel you. They feel your clothes,
George, to see if they are good!"

I soothed her as well as I could. "They ARE Good aren't they?" I said.

"It's the old pawnshop in their blood," she said, drinking tea; and then in infinite disgust,
"They run their hands over your clothes--they paw you."

I had a moment of doubt whether perhaps she had not been discovered in possession of unsuspected
forgeries. I don't know. After that my eyes were quickened, and I began to see for myself women
running their hands over other women's furs, scrutinising their lace, even demanding to handle
jewelry, appraising, envying, testing. They have a kind of etiquette. The woman who feels says,
"What beautiful sables?" "What lovely lace?" The woman felt admits proudly: "It's Real, you
know," or disavows pretension modestly and hastily, "It's Rot Good." In each other's houses
they peer at the pictures, handle the selvage of hangings, look at the bottoms of china....

I wonder if it IS the old pawnshop in the blood.

I doubt if Lady Drew and the Olympians did that sort of thing, but here I may be only clinging
to another of my former illusions about aristocracy and the State. Perhaps always possessions
have been Booty, and never anywhere has there been such a thing as house and furnishings native
and natural to the women and men who made use of them....

VI

For me, at least, it marked an epoch in my uncle's career when I learnt one day that he had
"shopped" Lady Grove. I realised a fresh, wide, unpreluded step. He took me by surprise with
the sudden change of scale from such portable possessions as jewels and motor-cars to a stretch
of countryside. The transaction was Napoleonic; he was told of the place; he said "snap"; there
were no preliminary desirings or searchings. Then he came home and said what he had done. Even
my aunt was for a day or so measurably awestricken by this exploit in purchase, and we both
went down with him to see the house in a mood near consternation. It struck us then as a very
lordly place indeed. I remember the three of us standing on the terrace that looked westward,
surveying the sky-reflecting windows of the house, and a feeling of unwarrantable intrusion
comes back to me.

