In such delicate issues, however, facts outweigh opinions. Mr. Scott has wisely struck the
balance in favor of a dispassionate recital of facts. It is a positive gain and welcome change
of tone in the recent discussion of racial issues to note in this study, as in Carl Sandburg's
Chicago Riots, the growing tendency to be objective and to leave conclusions to the intelligence
of one's readers. Indeed, since it is facts that are of paramount interest, it is regrettable
that, with the great resources of the foundation, more explicit statistics concerning the movement
could not have been compiled. It is this aspect of the subject which in consequence calls for
further treatment. Without the scientific pretensions, therefore, of Mr. Epstein's intensive
study of the Negro migrant or Dr. Woodson's historical survey, the book, as a capable popular
treatment of the public questions and social issues involved in the recent migration of the
Negro population, serves its own distinctive purpose, and achieves a measure of real public
service.

                                             ALAIN LOCKE.

NOTES

On the 18th and 19th of November the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History will
hold its annual meeting in Washington. This will be a convocation of teachers and scholars
throughout the United States, now giving attention to research and instruction in this field.
The management of the Association is endeavoring to make this meeting one of the most representative
ever assembled.

The purpose of the meeting is to promote the collection of sociological and historical documents,
to stimulate studies in this field through clubs and schools, and finally to bring about more
harmony between the races by interpreting the one to the other.

The reports of the work accomplished by the Association during the past year will be made,
further plans for the more successful prosecution of the work will be devised and a number
of instructive addresses will be delivered by some of the most distinguished men of the country.

Among the speakers will be A. B. Hart, Professor of History at Harvard University, Franz Boas,
Professor of Ethnology at Columbia University, L. Hollingsworth Wood, President of the Urban
League, and Oswald Garrison Villard, the Editor of the Nation. These addresses will cover almost
every phase of Negro life and history.

       *       *       *       *       *

Three important works bearing on the Negro have recently come from the press. Among these are
The Voice of the Negro, by Robert T. Kerlin, Professor of English, Virginia Military Institute,
published by E. P. Dutton and Company, New York; The Negro Faces America, by Herbert J. Seligman,
formerly a member of the editorial staff of the New York Evening Times and the New Republic,
published by Harper and Brothers, New York; and the Republic of Liberia, being a general description
of the Negro republic with its history, commerce, agriculture, flora and fauna, and present
methods of administration, by R. C. F. Maugham, Consul General at Monrovia, published by Charles
Scribner's Sons, New York. Reviews of these books will appear in the next number of the Journal
of Negro History.

The United States in Our Times, 1865-1920, by Paul L. Haworth, is the title of a work recently
brought out by Charles Scribner's Sons. Covering the period during which the Negroes have had
a chance to play a part in freedom, it contains some information and comment which will be
mentioned in this publication.

