       LVI. The Church of S. Thekla.
            (1) From the north-west.
            (2) The East End                                      208

  THE CHURCH OF S. SAVIOUR PANTEPOPTES

      LVII. (1) Door leading from the Outer to the Inner
                  Narthex.
            (2) The Dome, looking west                            212

     LVIII. (1) Decoration in Brick on the Exterior of the
                  South Wall.
            (2) Bracket in the Parecclesion of
               S. Mary Pammakaristos                              214

  CHURCH OF S. SAVIOUR PANTOKRATOR

       LIX. The Church from the west                              220

        LX. (1) The Church from the north-west.
            (2) Fragments of Sculptured Marbles found in
                  the Church                                      222

       LXI. (1) Interior of the South Church, looking east.
            (2) The Southern Arm of the Church                    224

      LXII. (1) Entrance from the Narthex to the South Church.
            (2) Interior, looking from the South Church
                  through into the North Church                   226

     LXIII. (1) The Gallery in the North Church, looking
                  south. (2) Interior of the North Church,
                  looking east                                    228

      LXIV. (1) Arch in the North Wall of the South Church,
                  seen from the South Church, looking north.
            (2) Arch in the North Wall of the South Church,
                  seen from the Central Church, looking south     230

       LXV. (1) Narthex of the North Church, looking north.
            (2) Outer Narthex of the South Church, looking
                  north                                           232

      LXVI. (1) South Bay in the Gallery of the South Church.
            (2) View in the North Church, looking south           234

     LXVII. (1) The Pulpit in the South Church.
            (2) West Side of the Central Bay in the Gallery of
                  the South Church                                236

    LXVIII. (1) Interior of the East Dome in the Central
                  Church.
            (2) Interior of the Dome in the South Church,
                  looking north                                   238

      LXIX. (1) The East End from the south.
            (2) East Window of the Central Church.
            (3) The East End from the north                       242

  CHURCH OF S. THEODORE

       LXX. (1) The North End of the Western Façade.
            (2) The Church from the north-west                    244

      LXXI. (1) The Central Dome from the south. (2) The
                 Western Façade from the south                    246

     LXXII. (1) The South Cross Arm (exterior) from
                 the south-east. (2) The East End from
                 the south                                        248

    LXXIII. (1) The Capital on the Southernmost Column
                  in the Façade.
            (2) Capital in the Façade                             250

     LXXIV. (1) The Outer Narthex, looking north.
            (2) Capital on the North Side of the Door
                  leading from the Outer to the Inner
                  Narthex                                         254

      LXXV. (1) The Interior, looking east.
            (2) The Interior (upper part), looking east           256

  THE REFECTORY OF THE MONASTERY OF MANUEL

     LXXVI. (1) From the west.
            (2) From the south-east                               258

    LXXVII. Cistern of Aetius                                     262

  CHURCH OF THE GASTRIA

   LXXVIII. (1) The Church from the east.
            (2) The Entrance                                      268

     LXXIX. (1) The Church from the west. (2) The Interior        270

  BOGDAN SERAI

      LXXX. (1) The Apse in the Upper Chapel.
            (2) A Pendentive of the Dome.
            (3) The Chapel, from the north-west                   280

  CHURCH OF S. SAVIOUR IN THE CHORA

     LXXXI. (1) The Church from the west.
            (2) The Church from the south-east                    288

    LXXXII. (1) The Church from the north-east.
            (2) The North Side of the Church                      292

   LXXXIII. (1) The Inner Narthex, looking south.
            (2) Another View of the same                          296

    LXXXIV. (1) The Interior, looking north-west.
            (2) The Outer Narthex, looking south                  304

    LXXXVI. (1) The Eikon Frame on the South-eastern Pier.
            (2) The Interior, looking east                        308

   LXXXVII. (1) The Cornice above the Main Door (on the
                  Interior).
            (2) The Archivolt on the North Wall of the
                  Parecclesion.
            (3) Window Heads in the Central Apse                  310

  LXXXVIII. (1) The East End of the Parecclesion. (2) A Capital
                  at the Entrance to the Parecclesion             314

    LXXXIX. (1) The Parecclesion, looking south-east.
            (2) The Parecclesion, looking west                    316

        XC. (1) Mosaic representing the Miracle of Water turned
                  into Wine.
            (2) Mosaic representing Mary caressed by her parents,
                  and blessed by priests seated at a banquet      322

       XCI. (1) Mosaic representing the Registration of Mary
                  and Joseph at Bethlehem.
            (2) Mosaic representing Theodore Metochites offering
                  the Church to Christ                            326

      XCII. The Archivolt on the South Wall of the Parecclesion,
              with the Epitaph in honour of Tornikes              330

CHAPTER I

BYZANTINE ARCHITECTURE

I. PLANNING

At the beginning of the fifth century, which is a suitable point from which to date the rise
of Byzantine architecture, three principal types of church plan prevailed in the Roman world:--

I. The Basilica: an oblong hall divided into nave and aisles, and roofed in wood, as in the
Italian and Salonican examples, or with stone barrel-vaults, as in Asia Minor and Central Syria.

II. The Octagonal or Circular plan covered with a stone or brick dome, a type which may be
subdivided according as (1) the dome rests upon the outer walls of the building, or (2) on
columns or piers surrounded by an ambulatory.

The Pantheon and the so-called Temple of Minerva Medica at Rome are early examples of the first
variety, the first circular, the second a decagon in plan. S. George at Salonica is a later
circular example. An early instance of the second variety is found in S. Constanza at Rome,
and a considerable number of similar churches occur in Asia Minor, dating from the time of
Constantine the Great or a little later.

III. The Cross plan. Here we have a square central area covered by a dome, from which extend
four vaulted arms constituting a cross. This type also assumes two distinct forms:

(1) Buildings in which the ground plan is cruciform, so that the cross shows externally at
the ground level. Churches of this class are usually small, and were probably sepulchral chapels
rather than churches for public worship. A good example is the tomb of Galla Placidia at Ravenna.

(2) In the second form of the Cross church the cross is enclosed within a square, and appears
only above the roofs of the angle chambers. An example is seen in the late Roman tomb at Kusr
en Nûeijîs in Eastern Palestine. In this instance the central square area is covered with a
dome on continuous pendentives; the four arms have barrel-vaults, and the angles of the cross
are occupied by small chambers, which bring the ground-plan to the square. The building is
assigned to the second century, and shows that true though continuous pendentives were known
at an early date[10] (Fig. 8).

Another example is the Praetorium at Musmiyeh, in Syria,[11] which probably dates from between
160 and 169 A.D. At some later time it was altered to a church, and by a curious foreshadowing
of the late Byzantine plan the walls of the internal cross have entirely disappeared from the
ground-plan. The dome rests on four columns placed at the inner angles of the cross, and the
vaulted cross arms rest on lintels spanning the space between the columns and the outer walls.

From these three types of building are derived the various schemes on which the churches of
the Byzantine Empire were planned.

Of the basilican form the only example in Constantinople that retains its original plan is
S. John the Baptist of the Studion (p. 56), erected c. 463 A.D.

The church of SS. Sergius and Bacchus (p. 70) and the baptistery of S. Sophia (p. 78) represent
respectively the two varieties of the octagonal plan. In the former the dome rests on piers
surrounded by an ambulatory; in the latter the dome rests upon the outer walls of the buildings.
Both are foundations of Justinian the Great.

Of the Cross church plan showing the cross externally at the ground level no example survives
in the city. But at least one church of that form was seen at Constantinople in the case of
the church of the Holy Apostles. This was essentially a mausoleum, built originally by Constantine
the Great and reconstructed by Justinian to contain the sarcophagi of the sovereigns and the
patriarchs of New Rome.[12]

The church of S. Mark at Venice was built on the plan of the Holy Apostles. It is a cruciform
church with aisles, but the galleries which might have been expected above them are omitted.
The central dome rests on four piers, and four smaller domes cover the arms.

Professor Strzygowski gives examples of cross-planned cells in the catacombs of Palmyra,[13]
and in many Eastern rock tombs.[14] Such cross plans are found also in the Roman catacombs.
These subterranean chapels, of course, do not show the external treatment, yet there can be
little doubt that the external cross plan was originally sepulchral, and owes its peculiar
system of planning to that fact. On the other hand, it was adopted in such churches as S. Mark's
at Venice and in the French examples of Périgord for aesthetic or traditional reasons.

In passing now to a consideration of the distinct forms developed from these pre-Byzantine
types of church building, the classification adopted by Professor Strzygowski may be followed.
In his Kleinasien he has brought forward a series of buildings which show the manner in which
a dome was fitted to the oblong basilica, producing the domed basilica (Kuppelbasilica), an
evolution which he regards as Hellenistic and Eastern. In contrast to this, Strzygowski distinguishes
the domed cross church (Kreuzkuppelkirche), of which S. Theodosia in Constantinople (p. 170)
is the typical example and which is a Western development. A comparison of the two forms is
of great importance for the study of certain Constantinople churches.

The domed basilica, as the name indicates, is a basilica with nave and aisles, in which a square
bay in the centre of the nave is covered by a dome on pendentives. To north and south, within
the arches supporting the dome, appear the nave and gallery arcades of the basilica; and as
the galleried basilica is a usual Eastern form galleries are usual in the domed basilica. As
seen from the central area, therefore, the north and south dome arches are filled in with arcades
in two stories, and the side aisles and galleries are covered with barrel vaults running parallel
to the axis of the church. At the west end a gallery over the narthex may unite the two side
galleries. At Kasr ibn Wardan, instanced by Strzygowski as a typical domed basilica,[15] there
is such a western gallery (Fig. 1). According to Strzygowski the domed basilica is older than
the fifth century.

The domed basilica remains always an oblong building, and whilst the two sides to north and
south are symmetrical, the western end retains the basilican characteristics--it has no gallery
or arcade communicating with the central area. The narthex communicates with the nave by doors,
and if a gallery is placed above it, both narthex and gallery are covered by barrel vaults.

In the domed cross church (Kreutzküppelkirche) the central dome rests on barrel vaults which
extend to the outer walls of the building and form the arms of the cross, the eastern arm forming
the bema. The lighting of the church is by windows in the gable walls which terminate the north,
south, and west cross arms. The prothesis and diaconicon open off the side arms, and two small
chambers in the western angles of the cross bring the plan externally to the usual rectangular
form.

The domed cross church may have galleries, as in S. Theodosia (p. 170), or may be without them,
as in SS. Peter and Mark (p. 193). Where galleries are present they are placed in the cross
arms and are supported by arcades at the ground level. The vaults beneath the galleries are
cross-groined. The domed cross church is a centrally planned church, in contrast to the domed
basilica, which is oblong, and therefore we should expect that where galleries are used they
will be formed in all three arms of the cross, as is the case in S. Theodosia.

There are a number of churches which vary from these types, but which can generally be placed
in one class or the other by the consideration of two main characteristics: if the dome arches
extend to the outer walls the building is a domed cross church; if the galleries are screened
off from the central area by arcades the building is a domed basilica.

The church at Derè Aghsy,[16] for instance, if we had only the plan to guide us, would appear
to be a typical domed basilica (Fig. 2), but on examining the section we find that the north
and south dome arches extend over the galleries to the outer walls and form cross arms (Fig.
3). The building is, in fact, a domed cross church with no gallery in the western arm. Above
the narthex at the west end, and separated from the western cross arm, is a gallery of the
type usual in the domed basilica, so that Derè Aghsy may be regarded as a domed cross church
with features derived from the domed basilica. S. Sophia at Constantinople, the highest development
of the domed basilica, has a very similar western gallery.

The church of S. Nicholas at Myra[17] (Fig. 4) has a gallery at the west end, but the cross
arms do not appear to be carried over the galleries. The plan is oblong and the cross-groined
vault is not used. The church, therefore, takes its place as a domed basilica.

The church of the Koimesis at Nicaea[18] (Figs. 5 and 6) has no galleries to the sides. The
aisles open into the central area by arcades, above which are triple windows over the aisle
vaults. At the western end is a gallery above the narthex. The aisles are barrel-vaulted, and
as the church is planned on an axis from east to west, and is not symmetrical on all three
sides, it is regarded as a domed basilica. It is such a form as might be developed from a basilica
without galleries.

