The barge left the side of the frigate, a broad blue pennant with white stars on a staff at
her bow, with fourteen handsome sailors to man her, all in clean white frocks and trowsers,
with straw hats and flowing black ribbons around them, on which was stamped in gold letters,
"Monongahela."

The double bank of white ash oars flashed in the rippling waves of the harbor as the barge
was urged over the water, the current seething and buzzing under her bows, and bubbling into
her wake as she flew on toward the town. In a mahogany box at the stern sat a bushy-whiskered
coxswain, whose body swayed to the stroke of the oars, while his hand grasped the brass tiller
as he steered amid the shipping. The commodore had settled himself down under the boat's awning
on the snow-white covered cushions in the stern-sheets, and, with one foot resting on the elegant
ash grating beneath, he began to talk to the grave gentleman who sat opposite to him.

"It is many a long year since I last visited this superb harbor, but I remember it as if it
were yesterday. You never were here before, I think? No? Well, if any of the old set I once
knew, when I was first lieutenant of the old 'Scourge,' are yet alive, we shall have a pleasant
time!"

"One fine fellow," went on the commodore, "I know is. His name is Piron. I had a note from
him as soon as the frigate anchored yesterday, and I shall ask him to dine sociably with me
on board this evening. I hope you will join us."

The grave gentleman said that he had business which would detain him on shore all night.

The barge swept up to the mole, the oars were thrown up at a wave of the coxswain's hand, and
came into the boat on either side like shutting up a pair of fans, while the boat-hooks checked
her way, and she remained stationary at the steps of the landing. The awning was canted, the
commodore and his friend got out and mounted the stairway, while the boat's crew stood up with
their hats off. On the mole were four or five people in light West India rig of brown and white,
and broad Guayaquil sombreros.

"Cleveland!" exclaimed a tall, handsome man, as he seized the commodore by both hands, "how
glad we are to see you! Here is Tom Stewart, and Paddy Burns, and little Don Stingo, attorneys,
factors, and sugar-boilers, all of us delighted to welcome you back once more to Jamaica!"

Crowding about the commodore, shaking hands and slapping one another on the back, standing
off a step or two to see the effect of time on each other's appearance, laughing heartily with
many a happy allusion to days gone by, those old friends and former companions, unmindful of
the hot sun, stood there with their faces lighted up and talking all together.

"And you are a commodore, eh! Cleveland, with a broad pennant and a squadron? Ah! we have kept
the run of you, though. Read all about that action you were in with the 'President,' and that
bloody battle in the 'Essex' and 'Phebe' at Valparaiso, with Porter. And here you are again,
safe and sound, and hearty!"

"And you too, Piron! The same as ever! Not tired of cane-planting yet? But how is madame?"

"Lovely a girl as ever, Cleveland, but never entirely got over that sad loss of the little
boy, you know. However, she will be overjoyed to see you. She's been talking of you ever since
we saw your appointment to the station fifteen months ago. Apropos, we have her widowed sister
with us, whose husband was killed at Waterloo, and our little niece who came from France--all
out there at the old place of Escondido, where you must come and pass a week with us. Nay,
man, no excuse! The thing is arranged, and it would be the death of Stingo, Tom Stewart, and
Paddy Burns if you disappoint us."

