SHAKSPEARE.

ILLUSTRATED FROM DESIGNS BY HAMMATT BILLINGS.

IN TWO VOLUMES. VOL. I.

BOSTON: PHILLIPS, SAMPSON, AND COMPANY. NEW YORK: J.C. DERBY. 1854.

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1854, by PHILLIPS, SAMPSON, AND COMPANY,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts.

STEREOTYPED AT THE BOSTON STEREOTYPE FOUNDRY. WRIGHT AND HASTY, PRINTERS, NO. 3 WATER ST.

PREFACE.

This book will be found to be truly what its name denotes, "Sunny Memories."

If the criticism be made that every thing is given couleur de rose, the answer is, Why not?
They are the impressions, as they arose, of a most agreeable visit. How could they be otherwise?

If there be characters and scenes that seem drawn with too bright a pencil, the reader will
consider that, after all, there are many worse sins than a disposition to think and speak well
of one's neighbors. To admire and to love may now and then be tolerated, as a variety, as well
as to carp and criticize. America and England have heretofore abounded towards each other in
illiberal criticisms. There is not an unfavorable aspect of things in the old world which has
not become perfectly familiar to us; and a little of the other side may have a useful influence.

The writer has been decided to issue these letters principally, however, by the persevering
and deliberate attempts, in certain quarters, to misrepresent the circumstances which, are
here given. So long as these misrepresentations affected only those who were predetermined
to believe unfavorably, they were not regarded. But as they have had some influence, in certain
cases, upon really excellent and honest people, it is desirable that the truth should be plainly
told.

The object of publishing these letters is, therefore, to give to those who are true-hearted
and honest the same agreeable picture of life and manners which met the writer's own, eyes.
She had in view a wide circle of friends throughout her own country, between whose hearts and
her own there has been an acquaintance and sympathy of years, and who, loving excellence, and
feeling the reality of it in themselves, are sincerely pleased to have their sphere of hopefulness
and charity enlarged. For such this is written; and if those who are not such begin to read,
let them treat the book as a letter not addressed to them, which, having opened by mistake,
they close and pass to the true owner.

The English reader is requested to bear in mind that the book has not been prepared in reference
to an English but an American public, and to make due allowance for that fact. It would have
placed the writer far more at ease had there been no prospect of publication in England. As
this, however, was unavoidable, in some form, the writer has chosen to issue it there under
her own sanction.

There is one acknowledgment which the author feels happy to make, and that is, to those publishers
in England, Scotland, France, and Germany who have shown a liberality beyond the requirements
of legal obligation. The author hopes that the day is not far distant when America will reciprocate
the liberality of other nations by granting to foreign authors those rights which her own receive
from them.

The Journal which appears in the continental tour is from the pen of the Rev. C. Beecher. The
Letters were, for the most part, compiled from what was written at the time and on the spot.
Some few were entirely written after the author's return.

It is an affecting thought that several of the persons who appear in these letters as among
the living, have now passed to the great future. The Earl of Warwick, Lord Cockburn, Judge
Talfourd, and Dr. Wardlaw are no more among the ways of men. Thus, while we read, while we
write, the shadowy procession is passing; the good are being gathered into life, and heaven
enriched by the garnered treasures of earth.

H.B.S.

CONTENTS OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

INTRODUCTORY.

LETTER I. The Voyage.

LETTER II. Liverpool.--The Dingle.--A Ragged School.--Flowers.--Speke Hall.--Antislavery Meeting.

LETTER III. Lancashire.--Carlisle.--Gretna Green.--Glasgow.

LETTER IV. The Baillie.--The Cathedral.--Dr. Wardlaw.--A Tea Party--Bothwell Castle.--Chivalry.--Scott
and Burns.

LETTER V. Dumbarton Castle.--Duke of Argyle.--Linlithgow.--Edinburgh.

LETTER VI. Public Soirée.--Dr. Guthrie.--Craigmiller Castle.--Bass Rock.--Bannockburn.--Stirling.--Glamis
Castle.--Barclay of Ury.--The Dee.--Aberdeen.--The Cathedral.--Brig o'Balgounie.

LETTER VII. Letter from a Scotch Bachelor.--Reformatory Schools of Aberdeen.--Dundee.--Dr.
Dick.--The Queen in Scotland.

LETTER VIII. Melrose.--Dry burgh.--Abbotsford.

LETTER IX. Douglas of Caver.--Temperance Soirée.--Calls.--Lord Gainsborough.--Sir William Hamilton.--George
Combe.--Visit to Hawthornden.--Roslin Castle.--The Quakers.--Hervey's Studio.--Grass Market.--Grayfriars'
Churchyard.

LETTER X. Birmingham.--Stratford on Avon.

LETTER XI. Warwick.--Kenilworth.

LETTER XII. Birmingham.--Sybil Jones.--J.A. James.

LETTER XIII. London.--Lord Mayor's Dinner.

LETTER XIV. London.--Dinner with Earl of Carlisle.

LETTER XV. London.--Anniversary of Bible Society.--Dulwich Gallery.--Dinner with Mr. E. Cropper.--Soirée
at Rev. Mr. Binney's.

LETTER XVI. Reception at Stafford House.

LETTER XVII. The Sutherland Estate.

LETTER XVIII. Baptist Noel.--Borough School.--Rogers the Poet.--Stafford House.--Ellesmere
Collection of Paintings.--Lord John Russell.

INTRODUCTORY

The following letters were written by Mrs. Stowe for her own personal friends, particularly
the members of her own family, and mainly as the transactions referred to in them occurred.
During the tour in England and Scotland, frequent allusions are made to public meetings held
on her account; but no report is made of the meetings, because that information, was given
fully in the newspapers sent to her friends with the letters. Some knowledge of the general
tone and spirit of the meetings seems necessary, in order to put the readers of the letters
in as favorable a position to appreciate them as her friends were when they were received.
Such knowledge it is the object of this introductory chapter to furnish.

One or two of the addresses at each of several meetings I have given, and generally without
alteration, as they appeared in the public journals at the time. Only a very few could be published
without occupying altogether too much space; and those selected are for the most part the shortest,
and chosen mainly on account of their brevity. This is certainly a surer method of giving a
true idea, of the spirit which actually pervaded the meetings than could be accomplished by
any selection of mere extracts from the several speeches. In that case, there might be supposed
to exist a temptation to garble and make unfair representations; but in the method pursued,
such a suspicion is scarcely possible. In relation to my own addresses, I have sometimes taken
the liberty to correct the reporters by my own recollections and notes. I have also, in some
cases, somewhat abridged them, (a liberty which I have not, to any considerable extent, ventured
to take with others,) though without changing the sentiment, or even essentially the form,
of expression. What I have here related is substantially what I actually said, and what I am
willing to be held responsible for. Many and bitter, during the tour, were the misrepresentations
and misstatements of a hostile press; to which I offer no other reply than the plain facts
of the following pages. These were the sentiments uttered, this was the manner of their utterance;
and I cheerfully submit them to the judgment of a candid public.

I went to Europe without the least anticipation of the kind of reception which awaited us;
it was all a surprise and an embarrassment to me. I went with the strongest love of my country,
and the highest veneration for her institutions; I every where in Britain found the most cordial
sympathy with this love and veneration; and I returned with both greatly increased. But slavery
I do not recognize as an institution of my country; it is an excrescence, a vile usurpation,
hated of God, and abhorred by man; I am under no obligation either to love or respect it. He
is the traitor to America, and American institutions, who reckons slavery as one of them, and,
as such, screens it from assault. Slavery is a blight, a canker, a poison, in the very heart
of our republic; and unless the nation, as such, disengage itself from it, it will most assuredly
be our ruin. The patriot, the philanthropist, the Christian, truly enlightened, sees no other
alternative. The developments of the present session of our national Congress are making this
great truth clearly perceptible even to the dullest apprehension.

C.E. STOWE.

ANDOVER, May 30, 1854.

BREAKFAST IN LIVERPOOL--APRIL 11.

THE REV. DR. M'NEILE, who had been requested by the respected host to express to Mrs. Stowe
the hearty congratulations of the first meeting of friends she had seen in England, thus addressed
her: "Mrs. Stowe: I have been requested by those kind friends under whose hospitable roof we
are assembled to give some expression to the sincere and cordial welcome with which, we greet
your arrival in this country. I find real difficulty in making this attempt, not from want
of matter, nor from want of feeling, but because it is not in the power of any language I can
command, to give adequate expression to the affectionate enthusiasm which pervades all ranks
of our community, and which is truly characteristic of the humanity and the Christianity of
Great Britain. We welcome Mrs. Stowe as the honored instrument of that noble impulse which
public opinion and public feeling throughout Christendom have received against the demoralizing
and degrading system of human slavery. That system is still, unhappily, identified in the minds
of many with the supposed material interests of society, and even with the well being of the
slaves themselves; but the plausible arguments and ingenious sophistries by which it has been
defended shrink with shame from the facts without exaggeration, the principles without compromise,
the exposures without indelicacy, and the irrepressible glow of hearty feeling--O, how true
to nature!--which characterize Mrs. Stowe's immortal book. Yet I feel assured that the effect
produced by Uncle Tom's Cabin is not mainly or chiefly to be traced to the interest of the
narrative, however captivating, nor to the exposures of the slave system, however withering:
these would, indeed, be sufficient to produce a good effect; but this book contains more and
better than even these; it contains what will never be lost sight of--the genuine application
to the several branches of the subject of the sacred word of God. By no part of this wonderful
work has my own mind been so permanently impressed as by the thorough legitimacy of the application
of Scripture,--no wresting, no mere verbal adaptation, but in every instance the passage cited
is made to illustrate something in the narrative, or in the development of character, in strictest
accordance with the design of the passage in its original sacred context. We welcome Mrs. Stowe,
then, as an honored fellow-laborer in the highest and best of causes; and I am much mistaken
if this tone of welcome be not by far the most congenial to her own feelings. We unaffectedly
sympathize with much which she must feel, and, as a lady, more peculiarly feel, in passing
through that ordeal of gratulation which is sure to attend her steps in every part of our country;
and I am persuaded that we cannot manifest our gratitude for her past services in any way more
acceptable to herself than by earnest prayer on her behalf that she may be kept in the simplicity
of Christ, enjoying in her daily experience the tender consolations of the Divine Spirit, and
in the midst of the most flattering commendations saying and feeling, in the instincts of a
renewed heart, 'Not unto me, O Lord, not unto me, but unto thy name be the praise, for thy
mercy, and for thy truth's sake.'"

PROFESSOR STOWE then rose, and said, "If we are silent, it is not because we do not feel, but
because we feel more than we can express. When that book was written, we had no hope except
in God. We had no expectation of reward save in the prayers of the poor. The surprising enthusiasm
which has been excited by the book all over Christendom is an indication that God has a work
to be done in the cause of emancipation. The present aspect of things in the United States
is discouraging. Every change in society, every financial revolution, every political and ecclesiastical
movement, seems to pass and leave the African race without help. Our only resource is prayer.
God surely cannot will that the unhappy condition of this portion of his children should continue
forever. There are some indications of a movement in the southern mind. A leading southern
paper lately declared editorially that slavery is either right or wrong: if it is wrong, it
is to be abandoned: if it is right, it must be defended. The Southern Press, a paper established
to defend the slavery interest at the seat of government, has proposed that the worst features
of the system, such as the separation of families, should be abandoned. But it is evident that
with that restriction the system could not exist. For instance, a man wants to buy a cook;
but she has a husband and seven children. Now, is he to buy a man and seven children, for whom
he has no use, for the sake of having a cook? Nothing on the present occasion has been so grateful
to our feelings as the reference made by Dr. M'Neile to the Christian character of the book.
Incredible as it may seem to those who are without prejudice, it is nevertheless a fact that
this book was condemned by some religious newspapers in the United States as anti-Christian,
and its author associated with infidels and disorganizers; and had not it been for the decided
expression of the mind of English Christians, and of Christendom itself, on this point, there
is reason to fear that the proslavery power of the United States would have succeeded in putting
the book under foot. Therefore it is peculiarly gratifying that so full an indorsement has
been given the work, in this respect, by eminent Christians of the highest character in Europe;
for, however some in the United States may affect to despise what is said by the wise and good
of this kingdom and the Christian world, they do feel it, and feel it intensely." In answer
to an inquiry by Dr. M'Neile as to the mode in which southern Christians defended the institution,
Dr. Stowe remarked that "a great change had taken place in that respect during the last thirty
years. Formerly all Christians united in condemning the system; but of late some have begun
to defend it on scriptural grounds. The Rev. Mr. Smylie, of Mississippi, wrote a pamphlet in
the defensive; and Professor Thornwell, of South Carolina, has published the most candid and
able statement of that argument which has been given. Their main reliance is on the system
of Mosaic servitude, wholly unlike though it was to the American system of slavery. As to what
this American system of slavery is, the best documents for enlightening the minds of British
Christians are the commercial newspapers of the slaveholding states. There you see slavery
as it is, and certainly without any exaggeration. Read the advertisements for the sale of slaves
and for the apprehension of fugitives, the descriptions of the persons of slaves, of dogs for
hunting slaves, &c., and you see how the whole matter as viewed by the southern mind. Say what
they will about it, practically they generally regard the separation of families no more than
the separation of cattle, and the slaves as so much property, and nothing else. Their own papers
show that the pictures of the internal slave trade given in Uncle Tom, so far from being overdrawn,
fall even below the truth. Go on, then, in forming and expressing your views on this subject.
In laboring for the overthrow of American slavery you are pursuing a course of Christian duty
as legitimate as in laboring to suppress the suttees of India, the cannibalism of the Fejee
Islands, and other barbarities of heathenism, of which human slavery is but a relic. These
evils can be finally removed by the benign influence of the love of Christ, and no other power
is competent to the work."

PUBLIC MEETING IN LIVERPOOL--APRIL 13.

The Chairman, (A. HODGSON, Esq.,) in opening the proceedings, thus addressed Mrs. Beecher Stowe:
"The modesty of our English ladies, which, like your own, shrinks instinctively from unnecessary
publicity, has devolved on me, as one of the trustees of the Liverpool Association, the gratifying
office of tendering to you, at then request, a slight testimonial of their gratitude and respect.
We had hoped almost to the last moment that Mrs. Cropper would have represented, on this day,
the ladies with whom she has cooperated, and among whom she has taken a distinguished lead
in the great work which you had the honor and the happiness to originate. But she has felt
with you that the path most grateful and most congenial to female exertion, even in its widest
and most elevated range, is still a retired and a shady path; and you have taught us that the
voice which most effectually kindles enthusiasm in millions is the still small voice which
comes forth from the sanctuary of a woman's breast, and from the retirement of a woman's closet--the
simple but unequivocal expression of her unfaltering faith, and the evidence of her generous
and unshrinking self-devotion. In the same spirit, and as deeply impressed with the retired
character of female exertion, the ladies who have so warmly greeted your arrival in this country
have still felt it entirely consistent with the most sensitive delicacy to make a public response
to your appeal, and to hail with acclamation your thrilling protest against those outrages
on our common nature which circumstances have forced on your observation. They engage in no
political discussion, they embark in no public controversy; but when an intrepid sister appeals
to the instincts of women of every color and of every clime against a system which sanctions
the violation of the fondest affections and the disruption of the tenderest ties; which snatches
the clinging wife from the agonized husband, and the child from the breast of its fainting
mother; which leaves the young and innocent female a helpless and almost inevitable victim
of a licentiousness controlled by no law and checked by no public opinion,--it is surely as
feminine as it is Christian to sympathize with her in her perilous task, and to rejoice that
she has shed such a vivid light on enormities which can exist only while unknown or unbelieved.
We acknowledge with regret and shame that that fatal system was introduced into America by
Great Britain; but having in our colonies returned from our devious paths, we may without presumption,
in the spirit of friendly suggestion, implore our honored transatlantic friends to do the same.
The ladies of Great Britain have been admonished by their fair sisters in America, (and I am
sure they are bound to take the admonition in good part,) that there are social evils in our
own country demanding our special vigilance and care. This is most true; but it is also true
that the deepest sympathies and most strenuous efforts are directed, in the first instance,
to the evils which exist among ourselves, and that the rays of benevolence which flash across
the Atlantic are often but the indication of the intensity of the bright flame which is shedding
light and heat on all in its immediate vicinity. I believe this is the case with most of those
who have taken a prominent part in this great movement. I am sure it is preeminently the case
with respect to many of those by whom you are surrounded; and I hardly know a more miserable
fallacy, by which sensible men allow themselves to be deluded, than that which assumes that
every emotion of sympathy which is kindled by objects abroad is abstracted from our sympathies
at home. All experience points to a directly opposite conclusion; and surely the divine command,
'to go into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature,' should put to shame and
silence the specious but transparent selfishness which would contract the limits of human sympathy,
and veil itself under the garb of superior sagacity. But I must not detain you by any further
observations. Allow me, in the name of the associated ladies, to present you with this small
memorial of great regard, and to tender to you their and my best wishes for your health and
happiness while you are sojourning among us, for the blessing of God on your children during
your absence, and for your safe return to your native country when your mission shall be accomplished.
I have just been requested to state the following particulars: In December last, a few ladies
met in this place to consider the best plan of obtaining signatures in Liverpool to an address
to the women of America on the subject of negro slavery, in substance coinciding with the one
so nobly proposed and carried forward by Lord Shaftesbury. At this meeting it was suggested
that it would be a sincere gratification to many if some testimonial could be presented to
Mrs. Stowe which would indicate the sense, almost universally entertained, that she had been
the instrument in the hands of God of arousing the slumbering sympathies of this country in
behalf of the suffering slave. It was felt desirable to render the expression of such a feeling
as general as possible; and to effect this it was resolved that a subscription should be set
on foot, consisting of contributions of one penny and upwards, with a view to raise a testimonial,
to be presented to Mrs. Stowe by the ladies of Liverpool, as an expression of their grateful
appreciation of her valuable services in the cause of the negro, and as a token of admiration
for the genius and of high esteem for the philanthropy and Christian feeling which animate
her great work, Uncle Tom's Cabin. It ought, perhaps, to be added, that some friends, not residents
of Liverpool, have united in this tribute. As many of the ladies connected with the effort
to obtain signatures to the address may not be aware of the whole number appended, they may
be interested in knowing that they amounted in all to twenty-one thousand nine hundred and
fifty-three. Of these, twenty thousand nine hundred and thirty-six were obtained by ladies
in Liverpool, from their friends either in this neighborhood or at a distance; and one thousand
and seventeen were sent to the committee in London from other parts, by those who preferred
our form of address. The total number of signatures from all parts of the kingdom to Lord Shaftesbury's
address was upwards of five hundred thousand."

PROFESSOR STOWE then said, "On behalf of Mrs. Stowe I will read from her pen the response to
your generous offering: 'It is impossible for me to express the feelings of my heart at the
kind and generous manner in which I have been received upon English shores. Just when I had
begun to realize that a whole wide ocean lay between me and all that is dearest to me, I found
most unexpectedly a home and friends waiting to receive me here. I have had not an hour in
which to know the heart of a stranger. I have been made to feel at home since the first moment
of landing, and wherever I have looked I have seen only the faces of friends. It is with deep
feeling that I have found myself on ground that has been consecrated and made holy by the prayers
and efforts of those who first commenced the struggle for that sacred cause which has proved
so successful in England, and which I have a solemn assurance will yet be successful in my
own country. It is a touching thought that here so many have given all that they have, and
are, in behalf of oppressed humanity. It is touching to remember that one of the noblest men
which England has ever produced now lies stricken under the heavy hand of disease, through
a last labor of love in this cause. May God grant us all to feel that nothing is too dear or
precious to be given in a work for which such men have lived, and labored, and suffered. No
great good is ever wrought out for the human race without the suffering of great hearts. They
who would serve their fellow-men are ever reminded that the Captain of their salvation was
made perfect through suffering. I gratefully accept the offering confided to my care, and trust
it may be so employed that the blessing of many "who are ready to perish" will return upon
your heads. Let me ask those--those fathers and mothers in Israel--who have lived and prayed
many years for this cause, that as they prayed for their own country in the hour of her struggle,
so they will pray now for ours. Love and prayer can hurt no one, can offend no one, and prayer
is a real power. If the hearts of all the real Christians of England are poured out in prayer,
it will be felt through the heart of the whole American church. Let us all look upward, from
our own feebleness and darkness, to Him of whom it is said, "He shall not fail nor be discouraged
till he have set judgment in the earth." To him, the only wise God our Saviour, be glory and
majesty, dominion and power, both now and ever. Amen.'--These are the words, my friends, which
Mrs. Stowe has written, and I cannot forbear to add a few words of my own. It was our intention,
as the invitation to visit Great Britain came from Glasgow, to make our first landing there.
But it was ordered by Providence that we should land here; and surely there is no place in
the kingdom where a landing could be more appropriate, and where the reception could have been
more cordial. [Hear, hear!] It was wholly unexpected by us, I can assure you. We know that
there were friendly hearts here, for we had received abundant testimonials to that effect from
letters which had come to us across the Atlantic--letters wholly unexpected, and which filled
our souls with surprise; but we had no thought that there was such a feeling throughout England,
and we scarcely know how to conduct ourselves under it, for we are not accustomed to this kind
of receptions. In our own country, unhappily, we are very much divided, and the preponderance
of feeling expressed is in the other direction, entirely in opposition, and not in favor. [Hear,
hear!] We knew that this city had been the scene of some of the greatest, most disinterested,
and most powerful efforts in behalf of emancipation. The name of Clarkson was indissolubly
associated with this place, for here he came to make his investigations, and here he was in
danger of his life, and here he was protected by friends who stood by him through the whole
struggle. The names of Cropper, and of Stephen, and of many others in this city, were very
familiar to us--[Hear, hear!]--and it was in connection with this city that we received what
to our feelings was a most effective testimonial, an unexpected letter from Lord Denman, whom
we have always venerated. When I was in England in 1836, there were no two persons whom I more
desired to see than the Duke of Wellington and Lord Denman; and soon I sought admission to
the House of Lords, where I had the pleasure both of seeing and hearing England's great captain;
and I found my way to the Court of Queen's Bench, where I had the pleasure of seeing and hearing
England's great judge. But how unexpected was all this to us! When that book was written, in
sorrow, and in sadness, and obscurity, and with the heart almost broken in the view of the
sufferings which it described, and the still greater sufferings which it dared not describe,
there was no expectation of any thing but the prayers of the sufferers and the blessing of
God, who has said that the seed which is buried in the earth shall spring up in his own good
time; and though it may be long buried, it will still at length come forth and bear fruit.
We never could believe that slavery in our land would be a perpetual curse; but we felt, and
felt deeply, that there must be a terrible struggle before we could be delivered from it, and
that there must be suffering and martyrdom in this cause, as in every other great cause; for
a struggle of eighteen years had taught us its strength. And, under God, we rely very much
on the Christian public of Great Britain; for every expression of feeling from the wise and
good of this land, with whatever petulance it may be met by some, goes to the heart of the
American people. [Hear, hear!] You must not judge of the American people by the expressions
which have come across the Atlantic in reference to the subject. Nine tenths of the American
people, I think, are, in opinion at least, with you on this great subject; [Hear, hear!] but
there is a tremendous pressure brought to bear upon all who are in favor of emancipation. The
whole political power, the whole money power, almost the whole ecclesiastical power is wielded
in defence of slavery, protecting it from all aggression; and it is as much as a man's reputation
is worth to utter a syllable boldly and openly on the other side. Let me say to the ladies
who have been active in getting up the address on the subject of slavery, that you have been
doing a great and glorious work, and a work most appropriate for you to do; for in slavery
it is woman that suffers most intensely, and the suffering woman has a claim upon the sympathy
of her sisters in other lands. This address will produce a powerful impression throughout the
country. There are ladies already of the highest character in the nation pondering how they
shall make a suitable response, and what they shall do in reference to it that will be acceptable
to the ladies of the United Kingdom, or will be profitable to the slave; and in due season
you will see that the hearts of American women are alive to this matter, as well as the hearts
of the women of this country. [Hear, hear!] Such was the mighty influence brought to bear upon
every thing that threatened slavery, that had it not been for the decided expression on this
side of the Atlantic in reference to the work which has exerted, under God, so much influence,
there is every reason to fear that it would have been crushed and put under foot, as many other
efforts for the overthrow of slavery have been in the United States. But it is impossible;
the unanimous voice of Christendom prohibits it; and it shows that God has a work to accomplish,
and that he has just commenced it. There are social evils in England. Undoubtedly there are;
but the difference between the social evils in England and this great evil of slavery in the
United States is just here: In England, the power of the government and the power of Christian
sympathy are exerted for the removal of those evils. Look at the committees of inquiry in Parliament,
look at the amount of information collected with regard to the suffering poor in their reports,
and see how ready the government of Great Britain is to enter into those inquiries, and to
remove those evils. Look at the benevolent institutions of the United Kingdom, and see how
active all these are in administering relief; and then see the condition of slavery in the
United States, where the whole power of the government is used in the contrary direction, where
every influence is brought to bear to prevent any mitigation of the evil, and where every voice
that is lifted to plead for a mitigation is drowned in vituperation and abuse from those who
are determined that the evil shall not be mitigated. This is the difference: England repents
and reforms. America refuses to repent and reform. It is said, 'Let each country take care
of itself, and let the ladies of England attend to their own business.' Now I have always found
that those who labor at home are those who labor abroad; [Hear, hear!] and those who say, 'Let
us do the work at home,' are those who do no work of good either at home or abroad. [Hear,
hear!] It was just so when the great missionary effort came up in the United States. They said,
'We have a great territory here. Let us send missionaries to our own territories. Why should
we send missionaries across the ocean?' But those who sent missionaries across the ocean were
those who sent missionaries in the United States; and those who did not send missionaries across
the ocean were those who sent missionaries nowhere. [Hear, hear!] They who say, 'Charity begins
at home,' are generally those who have no charity; and when I see a lady whose name is signed
to this address, I am sure to find a lady who is exercising her benevolence at home. Let me
thank you for all the interest you have manifested and for all the kindness which we have received
at your hands, which we shall ever remember, both with gratitude to you and to God our Father."

The REV. C.M. BIRRELL afterwards made a few remarks in proposing a vote of thanks to the ladies
who had contributed the testimonial which had been presented to the distinguished writer of
Uncle Tom's Cabin. He said it was most delightful to hear of the great good which that remarkable
volume had done, and, he humbly believed, by God's special inspiration and guidance, was doing,
in the United States of America. It was not confined to the United States of America. The volume
was going forth over the whole earth, and great good was resulting, directly and indirectly,
by God's providence, from it. He was told a few days ago, by a gentleman fully conversant with
the facts, that an edition of Uncle Tom, circulated in Belgium, had created an earnest desire
on the part of the people to read the Bible, so frequently quoted in that beautiful work, and
that in consequence of it a great run had been made upon the Bible Society's depositories in
that kingdom. [Hear, hear!] The priests of the church of Rome, true to their instinct, in endeavoring
to maintain the position which they could not otherwise hold, had published another edition,
from which, they had entirely excluded all reference to the word of God. [Hear, hear!] He had
been also told that at St. Petersburg an edition of Uncle Tom had been translated into the
Russian tongue, and that it was being distributed, by command of the emperor, throughout the
whole of that vast empire. It was true that the circulation of the work there did not spring
from a special desire on the part of the emperor to give liberty to the people of Russia, but
because he wished to create a third power in the empire, to act upon the nobles; he wished
to cause them to set free their serfs, in order that a third power might be created in the
empire to serve as a check upon them. But whatever was the cause, let us thank God, the Author
of all gifts, for what is done.

Sir GEORGE STEPHEN seconded the motion of thanks to the ladies, observing that he had peculiar
reasons for doing so. He supposed that he was one of the oldest laborers in this cause. Thirty
years ago he found that the work of one lady was equal to that of fifty men; and now we had
the work of one lady which was equal to that of all the male sex. [Applause.]

PUBLIC MEETING IN GLASGOW--APRIL 15.

THE REV. DR. WARDLAW was introduced by the chairman, and spoke as follows:--

"The members of the Glasgow Ladies' New Antislavery Association and the citizens of Glasgow,
now assembled, hail with no ordinary satisfaction, and with becoming gratitude to a kindly
protecting Providence, the safe arrival amongst them of Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe. They feel
obliged by her accepting, with so much promptitude and cordiality, the invitation addressed
to her--an invitation intended to express the favor they bore to her, and the honor in which
they held her, as the eminently gifted authoress of Uncle Tom's Cabin--a work of humble name,
but of high excellence and world-wide celebrity; a work the felicity of whose conception is
more than equalled by the admirable tact of its execution, and the Christian benevolence of
its design, by its exquisite adaptation to its accomplishment; distinguished by the singular
variety and consistent discrimination of its characters; by the purity of its religious and
moral principles; by its racy humor, and its touching pathos, and its effectively powerful
appeals to the judgment, the conscience, and the heart; a work, indeed, of whose sterling worth
the earnest test is to be found in the fact of its having so universally touched and stirred
the bosom of our common humanity, in all classes of society, that its humble name has become
'a household word,' from the palace to the cottage, and of the extent of its circulation having
been unprecedented in the history of the literature of this or of any other age or country.
They would, at the same time, include in their hearty welcome the Rev. C.E. Stowe, Professor
of Theological Literature in the Andover Theological Seminary, Massachusetts, whose eminent
qualifications, as a classical scholar, a man of general literature, and a theologian, have
recently placed him in a highly honorable and responsible position, and who, on the subject
of slavery, holds the same principles and breathes the same spirit of freedom with his accomplished
partner; and, along with them too, another member of the same singularly talented family with
herself. They delight to think of the amount of good to the cause of emancipation and universal
liberty which her Cabin has already done, and to anticipate the still larger amount it is yet
destined to do, now that the Key to the Cabin has triumphantly shown it to be no fiction; and
in whatever further efforts she may be honored of Heaven to make in the same noble cause, they
desire, unitedly and heartily, to cheer her on, and bid her 'God speed.' I cannot but feel
myself highly honored in having been requested to move this resolution. In doing so, I have
the happiness of introducing to a Glasgow audience a lady from the transatlantic continent,
the extraordinary production of whose pen, referred to in the resolution, had made her name
familiar in our country and through Europe, ere she appeared in person among us. My judgment
and my heart alike fully respond to every thing said in the resolution respecting that inimitable
work. We are accustomed to make a distinction between works of nature and works of art, but
in a sense which, all will readily understand, this is preeminently both. As a work of art,
it bears upon it, throughout, the stamp of original and varied genius. And yet, throughout,
it equally bears the impress of nature--of human nature--in its worst and its best, and all
its intermediate phases. The man who has read that little volume without laughing and crying
alternately--without the meltings of pity, the thrillings of horror, and the kindlings of indignation--would
supply a far better argument for a distinct race than a negro. [Loud laughter and cheers.]
He must have a humanity peculiarly his own. And he who can read it without the breathings of
devotion must, if he calls himself a Christian, have a Christianity as unique and questionable
as his humanity. [Cheering.] Never did work produce such a sensation. Among us that sensation
has happily been all of one kind. It has been the stirring of universal sympathy and unbounded
admiration. Not so in the country of its own and of its gifted authoress's birth. There, the
ferment has been among the friends as well as the foes of slavery. Among the former all is
rage. Among the latter, while there are some--we trust not a few--who take the same high and
noble position with the talented authoress, there are too many, we fear, who are frightened
by this uncompromising boldness, and who are drawn back rather than drawn forward by it--who
'halt between two opinions,' and are the advocates of medium principles and medium measures.
By many among ourselves, the excitement which has been stirred is contemplated with apprehension.
They regard it as unfavorable to emancipation, and likely to retard rather than to advance
its progress. I must confess myself of a somewhat different mind. That the cause may be obstructed
by it for a time, may be true. But it will work well in the long run. Good will ultimately
come out of it. Stir is better than stagnancy. Irritation is better than apathy. Whence does
it arise? From two sources. The conscience and the honor of the country have both been touched.
Conscience winces under the touch. The provocation shows it to be ill at ease. The wound is
painful, and it naturally awakens fretfulness and resentment. But by and by the angry excitement
will subside, and the salutary conviction will remain and operate. The national honor, too,
has been touched. Our friends across the wave boast, and with good reason, of the free principles
of their constitution. They glory in their liberty. But they cannot fail to feel the inconsistency
of their position, and the exposure of it to the world kindles on the cheek the blush of shame
and the reddening fire of displeasure. Now, the blush has aright source. It is the blush of
patriotism--it is for their country. But there is anger with the shame; for few things are
more galling than to feel that to be wrong which you are unable to justify, and which, yet,
you are not prepared to relinquish. [Loud applause.] On the whole, I cannot but regard the
agitation which has been produced as an auspicious, rather than a discouraging omen. It was
when the waters of the pool were troubled that their healing virtue was imparted. Let us then
hope that the troubling of the waters by this ministering angel of mercy may impregnate them
with a similar sanative influence, [the reverend doctor here pointed towards Mrs. Stowe, while
the audience burst out with enthusiastic acclamations and waving of handkerchiefs,] and thus
ultimately contribute to the healing of the ghastly wounds of the chain and the lash, and to
the setting of the crushed and bowed down erect in the soundness and dignity of their true
manhood. [Loud cheering.] Sorry we are that Mrs. Stowe should appear amongst us in a state
of broken health and physical exhaustion. No one who looks at the Cabin and at the Key, and
who knows aught of the effect of severe mental labor on the bodily frame, will marvel at this.
We fondly trust, and earnestly pray, that her temporary sojourn among us may, by the divine
blessing, recruit her strength, and contribute to the prolongation of a life so promising of
benefit to suffering humanity, and to the glory of God. [Cheers.] Meanwhile she enjoys the
happy consciousness that she is suffering in a good cause. A better there could not be. It
is one which involves the well being, corporeal and mental, physical and spiritual, temporal
and eternal, of degraded, plundered, oppressed, darkened, brutalized, perishing millions. And,
while we delight in furnishing her for a time with a peaceful retreat from 'the wrath of men,'
from the resentment of those who, did they but rightly know their own interests, would have
smiled upon her, and blessed her. We trust she enjoys, and ever will enjoy, quietness and assurance
of an infinitely higher order--the divine Master, whom she serves and seeks to honor; proving
to her, in the terms of his own promise, 'a refuge from the storm, and a covert from the tempest.'
[Enthusiastic cheering.] It may sound strangely, that, when assembled for the very purpose
of denouncing 'property in man,' we should be putting in our claims for a share of property
in woman. So, however, it is. We claim Mrs. Stowe as ours--[renewed, cheers]--not ours only,
but still ours. She is British and European property as well as American. She is the property
of the whole world of literature and the whole world of humanity. [Cheers.] Should our transatlantic
friends repudiate the property, they may transfer their share--[laughter and cheers]--most
gladly will we accept the transference."

PROFESSOR STOWE, on rising to reply, was greeted with the most enthusiastic applause. He said
that he appeared in the name of Mrs. Stowe, and in his own name, for the purpose of cordially
thanking the people of Glasgow for the reception that had been given to them. But he could
not find words to do it. Was it true that all this affectionate interest was merited? [Cheers.]
He could not imagine any book capable of exciting such expressions of attachment; indeed he
was inclined to believe it had not been written at all--he "'spected it grew." [Tremendous
cheers.] Under the oppression of the fugitive slave law the book had sprung from the soil ready
made. He regretted exceedingly that in consequence of the state of Mrs. Stowe's health, and
in consequence of the great pressure of engagements on himself, their stay in this country
would be necessarily short. But he hoped they would accept of the expression of thanks they
offered, and their apology for not being in a condition to meet their kindness as they would
desire. When they were about to set out from Andover, a friend of theirs expressed his astonishment
that they should enter upon such a journey in the delicate state of Mrs. Stowe's health. The
Scotch people, he doubted not, would be kind to them--they would kill them with kindness; and
he feared it would be so. It was from Glasgow the idea of the invitation they had received
had originated; and well might it originate in that city, for when had been the time that Glasgow
was not in earnest on the subject of freedom? They had had hard struggles for liberty, and
they had been successful, and the people in the United States were now struggling for the same
privilege. But they labored under circumstances greatly different from those in Great Britain.
Scotland had ever been distinguished for its love of freedom. [Great applause.] The religious
denominations in the United States--to a great extent, give few and feeble expressions of disapprobation
against the system of slavery. Two denominations had never been silent--the Old Scotch Seceders,
or Covenanters, and the disciples of William Penn--not one of their number, in the United States,
owns a slave. Not one can own a slave without being ejected from the society.[A] In fact, the
general feeling was against slavery; but to avoid trouble, the people hesitate to give publicity
to their feelings. Were this done, slavery would soon come to an end. Great sacrifices are
sometimes made by slaveholders to get rid of slavery. He went once to preach in the State of
Ohio. He found there a little log house. Inside was a delicate woman, feeble and with white
hands. She seemed wholly unaccustomed to work. Her husband had the same appearance of delicacy.
They were very poor. How had they come into that state? They belonged to a slave State, where
they had formerly possessed a little family of slaves. They had felt slavery to be wrong. They
set them free, and with the remainder of their little property tried to get their living by
farming; but like many similar cases, it had been one of martyrdom. The Professor then proceeded
to make some very practical remarks on the character of the fugitive slave law, after which
he said that the prosperity of Great Britain in a great measure resulted from the products
of slave labor. American cotton was the chief support of the system. We must, both in Britain
and America, get free-grown cotton, or slavery will not, at least for a long time to come,
be abolished. What he would impress on the minds of Christians was unity in this great work.
Let slaveholders be ever so much opposed to each other on other topics, they were unanimous
in their endeavors to support slavery. But let the prayers of all Christians and the efforts
of all Christians be united; and the system of oppression would speedily be destroyed forever.

PUBLIC MEETING IN EDINBURGH--APRIL 20.

THE LORD PROVOST rose, and stated that a number of letters of apology had been received from
parties who had been invited to take part in the meeting, but who had been unable to attend.
Among these he might mention Professor Blackie, the Rev. Mr. Gilfillan, of Dundee, Rev. J.
Begg, D.D., the Earl of Buchan, Dr. Candlish, and Sir W. Gibson Craig, all of whom expressed
their regret that they could not be present. One of them, he observed, was from a gentleman
who had long taken an interest in the antislavery cause,--Lord Cockburn,[B]--and his note was
so warm, and sympathetic, and hearty on the subject about which they had met, that he could
not resist the temptation of reading it. It proceeded, "I regret, that owing to my being obliged
to be in Ayrshire, it will not be in my power to join you in the expression of respect and
gratitude to Mrs. Stowe; she deserves all the honor that can be done her; she has done more
for humanity than was ever accomplished before by a single book of fiction. [Cheers.] It did
not require much to raise our British feeling against slavery, but by showing us what substantially
are facts, and the necessary tendency of this evil in its most mitigated form, she has greatly
strengthened the ground on which this feeling rests. Her work may have no immediate or present
influence on the states of her own country that are now unhappily under the curse, and may
indeed for a time aggravate its horrors; but it is a prodigious accession to the constantly
accumulating mass of views and evidence, which by reason of its force must finally prevail."
[Cheers.] The Lord Provost proceeded to say, that they had now assembled chiefly to do honor
to their distinguished guest, Mrs. Stowe. [Applause.] They had met, however, also to express
their interest in the cause which it had been the great effort of her life to promote--the
abolition of slavery. They took advantage of her presence, and the effect which was produced
on the public mind of this country, to reiterate their love for the abolition cause, and their
detestation of slavery. Before they were aware that Mrs. Stowe was to grace the city of Edinburgh
with her presence, a committee had been organized to collect a penny offering--the amount to
be contributed in pence, and other small sums, from the masses of this country--to be presented
to her as some means of mitigating, through her instrumentality, the horrors of slavery, as
they might come under her observation. It was intended at once as a mark of their esteem for
her, of their confidence in her, of their conviction that she would do what was right in the
cause, and, at the same time, as an evidence of the detestation in which the system of slavery
was held in this free country. That penny offering now, he was happy to say, by the spontaneous
efforts of the inhabitants of this and other towns, amounted to a considerable sum; to certain
gentlemen in Edinburgh forming the committee the whole credit of this organization was due,
and he believed one of their number, the Rev. Mr. Ballantyne, would present the offering that
evening, and tell them all about it. He would not, therefore, forestall what he would have
to say on the subject. They were also to have the pleasure of presenting Mrs. Stowe with an
address from the committee in this city, which would be presented by another reverend friend,
who would be introduced at the proper time. As there would be a number of speakers to follow
during the evening, his own remarks must be exceedingly short; but he could not resist the
temptation of saying how happy he felt at being once more in the midst of a great meeting in
the city of Edinburgh, for the purpose of expressing their detestation of the system of slavery.
They could appeal to their brethren in the United States with clean hands, because they had
got rid of the abomination themselves; they could therefore say to them, through their friends
who were now present, on their return home, and through the press, which would carry their
sentiments even to the slave states--they could say to them that they had washed their own
hands of the evil at the largest pecuniary sacrifice that was ever made by any nation for the
promotion of any good cause. [Loud applause.] Some parties said that they should not speak
harshly of the Americans, because they were full of prejudice with regard to the system which
they had seen growing up around them. He said so too with all his heart; he joined in the sentiment
that they should not speak harshly, but they might fairly express their opinion of the system
with which their American friends were surrounded, and in which he thought all who supported
it were guilty participators. [Hear, hear!] They could denounce the wickedness, they could
tell them that they thought it was their duty to put an end to it speedily. The cause of the
abolition of slavery in our own colonies long hung without any visible progress, notwithstanding
the efforts of many distinguished men, who did all they could to mitigate some of its more
prominent evils; and yet, so long as they never struck at the root, the progress which they
made was almost insensible. They knew how many men had spent their energies, and some of them
their lives, in attempting to forward the cause; but how little effect was produced for the
first half of the present century! The city of Edinburgh had always, he was glad to say, taken
a deep interest in the cause; it was one of the very first to take up the ground of total and
entire abolition. [Cheers.] A predecessor of his own in the civic chair was so kind as to preside
at a meeting held in Edinburgh twenty-three years ago, in which a very decided step was proposed
to be taken in advance, and a resolution was moved by the then Dean of Faculty, to the effect
that on the following first of January, 1831, all the children born of slave parents in our
colonies were from that date to be declared free. That was thought a great and most important
movement by the promoters of the cause. There were, however, parties at that crowded meeting
who thought that even this was a mere expedient--that it was a mere pruning of the branches,
leaving the whole system intact. One of these was the late Dr. Andrew Thomson--[cheers]--who
had the courage to propose that the meeting should at once declare for total and immediate
abolition, which proposal was seconded by another excellent citizen, Mr. Dickie. Dr. Thomson
replied to some of the arguments which had been put forward, to the effect that the total abolition
might possibly occasion bloodshed; and he said that, even if that did follow, it was no fault
of his, and that he still stuck to the principle, which he considered right under any circumstances.
The chairman, thereupon, threatened to leave the chair on account of the unnecessarily strong
language used, and when the sentiments were reiterated by Mr. Dickie, he actually bolted, and
left the meeting, which was thrown into great confusion. A few days afterwards, however, another
meeting was held--one of the largest and most effective that had been ever held in Edinburgh--at
which were present Mr. John Shank More in the chair, the Rev. Dr. Thomson, Rev. Dr Gordon,
Dr. Ritchie, Mr. Muirhead, the Rev. Mr. Buchanan of North Leith, Mr. J. Wigham, Jr., Dr. Greville,
&c. The Lord Provost proceeded to read extracts from the speeches made at the meeting, showing
that the sentiments of the inhabitants of Edinburgh, so far back as 1830, as uttered by some
of its most distinguished men,--not violent agitators, but ministers of the gospel, promoters
of peace and order, and every good and every benevolent purpose,--were in favor of the immediate
and total abolition of slavery in our colonies. He referred especially to the speech of Dr.
Andrew Thomson on this occasion, from which he read the following extract: "But if the argument
is forced upon me to accomplish this great object, that there must be violence, let it come,
for it will soon pass away--let it come and rage its little hour, since it is to be succeeded
by lasting freedom, and prosperity, and happiness. Give me the hurricane rather than the pestilence.
Give me the hurricane, with its thunders, and its lightnings, and its tempests--give me the
hurricane, with its partial and temporary devastations, awful though they be--give me the hurricane,
which brings along with it purifying, and healthful, and salutary effects--give me the hurricane
rather than the noisome pestilence, whose path is never crossed, whose silence is never disturbed,
whose progress is never arrested by one sweeping blast from the heavens--which walks peacefully
and sullenly through the length and breadth of the land, breathing poison into every heart,
and carrying havoc into every home--enervating all that is strong, defacing all that is beautiful,
and casting its blight over the fairest and happiest scenes of human life--and which from day
to day, and from year to year, with intolerant and interminable malignity, sends its thousands
and tens of thousands of hapless victims into the ever-yawning and never-satisfied grave!"--[Loud
and long applause.] The experience which they had had, that all the dangers, all the bloodshed
and violence which were threatened, were merely imaginary, and that none of these evils had
come upon them although slavery had been totally abolished by us, should, he thought, be an
encouragement to their American friends to go home and tell their countrymen that in this great
city the views now put forward were advocated long ago--that the persons who now held them
said the same years ago of the disturbances and the evils which would arise from pressing the
question of immediate and total abolition--that the same kind of arguments and the same predictions
of evil were uttered in England--and although she had not the experience, although she had
not the opportunity of pointing to the past, and saying the evil had not come in such a case,
still, even then, they were willing to face the evil, to stick to the righteous principle,
and to say, come what would, justice must be done to the slave, and slavery must be wholly
and immediately abolished. [Cheers.] He had said so much on the question of slavery, because
he was very sure it would be much more agreeable to their modest and retiring and distinguished
guest that one should speak about any other thing than about herself. Uncle Tom's Cabin needed
no recommendation from him. [Loud cheers.] It was the most extraordinary book, he thought,
that had ever been published; no book had ever got into the same circulation; none had ever
produced a tithe of the impression which it had produced within a given time. It was worth
all the proslavery press of America put together. The horrors of slavery were not merely described,
but they were actually pictured to the eye. They were seen and understood fully; formerly they
were mere dim visions, about which there was great difference of opinion; some saw them as
in a mist, and others more clearly; but now every body saw and understood slavery. Every body
in this great city, if they had a voice in the matter, would be prepared to say that they wished
slavery to be utterly extinguished. [Loud cheers.]

PROFESSOR STOWE then rose, and was greeted with loud cheers. He begged to read the following
note from Mrs. Stowe, in acknowledgment of the honor:--

"I accept these congratulations and honors, and this offering, which it has pleased Scotland
to bestow on me, not for any thing which I have said or done, not as in any sense acknowledging
that they are or can be deserved, but with heartfelt, humble gratitude to God, as tokens of
mercy to a cause most sacred and most oppressed. In the name of a people despised and rejected
of men--in the name of men of sorrows acquainted with grief, from whom the faces of all the
great and powerful of the earth have been hid--in the name of oppressed and suffering humanity,
I thank you. The offering given is the dearer to me, and the more hopeful, that it is literally
the penny offering, given by thousands on thousands, a penny at a time. When, in travelling
through your country, aged men and women have met me with such fervent blessings, little children
gathered round me with such loving eyes--when honest hands, hard with toil, have been stretched
forth with such hearty welcome--when I have seen how really it has come from the depths of
the hearts of the common people, and know, as I truly do, what prayers are going up with it
from the humblest homes of Scotland, I am encouraged. I believe it is God who inspires this
feeling, and I believe God never inspired it in vain. I feel an assurance that the Lord hath
looked down from heaven to hear the groaning of the prisoner, and according to the greatness
of his power, to loose those that are appointed to die. In the human view, nothing can be more
hopeless than this cause; all the wealth, and all the power, and all the worldly influence
is against it. But here in Scotland, need we tell the children of the Covenant, that the Lord
on high is mightier than all human power? Here, close by the spot where your fathers signed
that Covenant, in an hour when Scotland's cause was equally poor and depressed--here, by the
spot where holy martyrs sealed it with their blood, it will neither seem extravagance nor enthusiasm
to say to the children of such parents, that for the support of this cause, we look, not to
the things that are seen, but to the things that are not seen; to that God, who, in the face
of all worldly power, gave liberty to Scotland, in answer to your fathers' prayers. Our trust
is in Jesus Christ, and in the power of the Holy Ghost, and in the promise that he shall reign
till he hath put all things under his feet. There are those faithless ones, who, standing at
the grave of a buried humanity, tell us that it is vain to hope for our brother, because he
hath lain in the grave three days already. We turn from them to the face of Him who has said,
'Thy brother shall rise again.' There was a time when our great High Priest, our Brother, yet
our Lord, lay in the grave three days; and the governors and powers of the earth made it as
sure as they could, seeding the stone and setting a watch. But a third day came, and an earthquake,
and an angel. So shall it be to the cause of the oppressed; though now small and despised,
we are watchers at the sepulchre, like Mary and the trusting women; we can sit through the
hours of darkness. We are watching the sky for the golden streaks of dawning, and we believe
that the third day will surely come. For Christ our Lord, being raised from the dead, dieth
no more; and he has pledged his word that he shall not fail nor be discouraged till he have
set judgment on the earth. He shall deliver the poor when He crieth, the needy, and him that
hath no helper. The night is far spent--the day is at hand. The universal sighing of humanity
in all countries, the whole creation groaning and travailing in pain together--the earnest
expectation of the creature waiting for the manifestation of the sons of God--show that the
day is not distant when he will break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free.

The Rev. Professor then continued. "My Lord Provost, Ladies and Gentlemen: This cause, to be
successful, must be carried on in a religious spirit, with a deep sense of our dependence on
God, and with that love for our fellow-men which the gospel requires. It is because I think
I have met this spirit since I reached the shores of Great Britain, in those who have taken
an interest in the cause, that I feel encouraged to hope that the expression of your feeling
will be effective on the hearts of Christians on the other side of the Atlantic. There are
Christians there as sincere, as hearty, and as earnest, as any on the face of the earth. They
have looked at this subject, and been troubled; they have hardly known what to do, and their
hearts have been discouraged. They have almost turned away their eyes from it, because they
have scarcely dared encounter it, the difficulties appeared to them so great. Wrong cannot
always receive the support of Christians; wrong must be done away with; and what must be--what
God requires to be--that certainly will be. Now, in this age, man is every where beginning
to regard the sufferings of his fellow-man as his own. There is an interest felt in man, as
man, which was not felt in preceding ages. The facilities of communication are bringing all
nations in contact, and whatever wrong exists in any part of the world, is every where felt.
There are wrongs and sufferings every where; but those to which we are accustomed, we look
upon with most indifference, because being accustomed to them, we do not feel their enormity.
You feel the enormity of slavery more than we do, because you are not immediately interested,
and regard it at a distance. We regard some of the wrongs that exist in the old world with
more sensibility than you can regard them, because we are not accustomed to them, and you are.
Therefore, in the spirit of Christian love, it belongs to Christian men to speak to each other
with great fidelity. It has been said that you know little or nothing about slavery. O, happy
men, that you are ignorant of its enormities. [Hear, hear!] But you do know something about
it. You know as much about it as you know of the widow-burning in India, or the cannibalism
in the Fejee Islands, or any of those crimes and sorrows of paganism, that induced you to send
forth your missionaries. You know it is a great wrong, and a terrible obstacle to the progress
of the gospel; and that is enough for you to know to induce you to act. You have as much knowledge
as ever induced a Christian community in any part of the world to exert an influence in any
other part of the world. Slavery is a relic of paganism, of barbarism; it must be removed by
Christianity; and if the light of Christianity shines on it clearly, it certainly will remove
it. There are thousands of hearts in the United States that rejoice in your help. Whatever
expressions of impatience and petulance you may hear, be assured that these expressions are
not the heart of the great body of the people. [Cheers.] A large proportion of that country
is free from slavery. There is an area of freedom ten times larger than Great Britain in territory.[C]
[Cheers.] But all the power over the slave is in the hands of the slaveholder. You had a power
over the slaveholder by your national legislature; our national legislature has no power over
the slaveholder. All the legislation that can in that country be brought to bear for the slave,
is legislation by the slaveholders themselves. There is where the difficulty lies. It is altogether
by persuasion, Christian counsel, Christian sympathy, Christian earnestness, that any good
can be effected for the slave. The conscience of the people is against the system--the conscience
of the people, even in the slaveholding states; and if we can but get at the conscience without
exciting prejudice, it will tend greatly towards the desired effect. But this appeal to the
conscience must be unintermittent, constant. Your hands must not be weary, your prayers must
not be discontinued; but every day and every hour should we be doing something towards the
object. It is sometimes said, Americans who resist slavery are traitors to their country. No;
those who would support freedom are the only true friends of their country. Our fathers never
intended slavery to be identified with the government of the United States; but in the temptations
of commerce the evil was overlooked; and how changed for the worse has become the public sentiment
even within the last thirty or forty years! The enormous increase in the consumption of cotton
has raised enormously the market value of slaves, and arrayed both avarice and political ambition
in defence of slavery. Instruct the conscience, and produce free cotton, and this will be like
Cromwell's exhortation to his soldiers, 'Trust in God, and keep your powder dry.'" [Continued
cheers.]

THE REV. DR. R. LEE then said: "I am quite sure that every individual here responds cordially
to those sentiments of respect and gratitude towards our honored guest which have been so well
expressed by the Lord Provost and the other gentlemen who have addressed us. We think that
this lady has not only laid us under a great obligation by giving us one of the most delightful
books in the English language, but that she has improved us as men and as Christians, that
she has taught us the value of our privileges, and made us more sensible than we were before
of the obligation which lies upon us to promote every good work. I have been requested to say
a few words on the degradation of American slavery; but I feel, in the presence of the gentleman
who last addressed you, and of those who are still to address you, that it would be almost
presumption in me to enter on such a subject. It is impossible to speak or to think of the
subject of slavery without feeling that there is a double degradation in the matter; for, in
the first place, the slave is a man made in the image of God--God's image cut in ebony, as
old Thomas Fuller quaintly but beautifully said; and what right have we to reduce him to the
image of a brute, and make property of him? We esteem drunkenness as a sin. Why is it a sin?
Because it reduces that which was made in the image of God to the image of a brute. We say
to the drunkard, 'You are guilty of a sacrilege, because you reduce that which God made in
his own image "into the image of an irrational creature."' Slavery does the very same. But
there is not only a degradation committed as regards the slave--there is a degradation also
committed against himself by him who makes him a slave, and who retains him in the position
of a slave; for is it not one of the most commonplace of truths that we cannot do a wrong to
a neighbor without doing a greater wrong to ourselves?--that we cannot injure him without also
injuring ourselves yet more? I observe there is a certain class of writers in America who are
fond of representing the feeling of this country towards America as one of jealousy, if not
of hatred.. I think, my lord, that no American ever travelled in this country without being
conscious at once that this is a total mistake--that this is a total misapprehension. I venture
to say that there is no nation on the face of the earth in which we feel half so much interest,
or towards which we feel the tenth part of the affection, which we do towards our brethren
in the United States of America. And what is more than that--there is no nation towards which
we feel one half so much admiration, and for which we feel half so much respect, as we do for
the people of the United States of America. [Cheers.] Why, sir, how can it be otherwise? How
is it possible that it should be the reverse? Are they not our bone and our flesh? and their
character, whatever it is, is it any thing more than our own, a little exaggerated, perhaps?
Their virtues and their vices, their faults and their excellences, are just the virtues and
the vices, the faults and the excellences, of that old respectable freeholder, John Bull, from
whom they are descended. We are not much surprised that a nation which are slaves themselves
should make other men slaves. This cannot very much surprise us: but we are both surprised
and we are deeply grieved, that a nation which has conceived so well the idea of freedom--a
nation which has preached the doctrines of freedom with such boldness and such fulness--a nation
which has so boldly and perfectly realized its idea of freedom in every other respect--should
in this only instance have sunk so completely below its own idea, and forgetting the rights
of one class of their fellow-creatures, should have deprived them of freedom altogether. I
say that our grief and our disapprobation of this in the case of our brethren in America arises
very much from this, that in other respects we admire them so much, we are sorry that so noble
a nation should allow a blot like this to remain upon its escutcheon. I am not ignorant--nobody
can be ignorant--of the great difficulties which encompass the solution of this question in
America. It is vain for us to shut our eyes to it. There can be no doubt whatever that great
sacrifices will require to be made in order to get rid of this great evil. But the Americans
are a most ingenious people; they are full of inventions of all sorts, from the invention of
a machine for protecting our feet from the water, to a machine for making ships go by means
of heated air; from the one to the other the whole field of discovery is occupied by their
inventive genius. There is not an article in common use among us but bears some stamp of America.
We rise in the morning, and before we are dressed we have had half a dozen American articles
in our hands. And during the day, as we pass through the streets, articles of American invention
meet us every where. In short, the ingenuity of the people is proclaimed all over the world.
And there can be no doubt that the moment this great, this ingenious people finds that slavery
is both an evil and a sin, their ingenuity will be successfully exerted in discovering some
invention for preventing its abolition from ruining them altogether. [Cheers.] No doubt their
ingenuity will be equal to the occasion; and I may take the liberty of adding, that their ingenuity
in that case will find even a richer reward than it has done in those other inventions which
have done them so much honor, and been productive of so much profit. I say, that sacrifices
must be made; there can be no doubt about that; but I would also observe, that the longer the
evil is permitted to continue, the greater and more tremendous will become the sacrifice which
will be needed to put an end to it; for all history proves that a nation encumbered, with slavery
is surrounded with danger. [Applause.] Has the history of antiquity been written in vain? Does
it not teach us that not only domestic and social pollutions are the inevitable results, but
does it not teach us also that political insecurity and political revolutions as certainly
slumber beneath the institution of slavery as fireworks at the basis of Mount Ætna? [Cheers.]
It cannot but be so. Men no more than steam can be compressed without a tremendous revulsion;
and let our brethren in America be sure of this, that the longer the day of reckoning is put
off by them, the more tremendous at last that reckoning will Be." [Loud, applause.]

       *       *       *       *       *

In regard to this meeting at Edinburgh, there was a ridiculous story circulated and variously
commented on in certain newspapers of the United States, that the American flag was there exhibited,
insulted, torn, and mutilated. Certain religious papers took the lead in propagating the slander,
which, so for as I know or can learn, had no foundation, unless it be that, in the arranging
of the flag around its staff, the stars might have been more distinctly visible than the stripes.
The walls were profusely adorned with drapery, and there were numerous flags disposed in festoons.
Truly a wonderful thing to make a story of, and then parade it in the newspapers from Maine
to Texas, beginning in Philadelphia!

PUBLIC MEETING IN ABERDEEN--APRIL 21.

ADDRESS OF THE CITIZENS.

MRS H. BEECHER STOWE.

MADAM: The citizens of Aberdeen have much pleasure in embracing the opportunity now afforded
them of expressing at once their esteem for yourself personally, and their interest in the
cause of which you have been the distinguished advocate.

While they would, not render a blind homage to mere genius, however exalted, they consider
genius such as yours, directed by Christian principle, as that which, for the welfare of humanity,
cannot be too highly or too fervently honored.

Without depreciating the labors of the various advocates of slave emancipation who have appeared
from time to time on both sides of the Atlantic, they may conscientiously award to you the
praise of having brought about the present universal and enthusiastic sentiment in regard to
the slavery which exists in America.

The galvanic battery may be arranged and charged, every plate, wire, and fluid being in its
appropriate place; but, until some hand shall bring together the extremities of the conducting
medium, in vain might we expect to elicit the latent fire.

Every heart may throb with the feeling of benevolence, and every mind respond to the sentiment
that man, in regard to man, should be free and equal; but it is the province of genius such
as yours to give unity to the universal, and find utterance for the felt.

When society has been prepared for some momentous movement or moral reformation, so that the
hidden thoughts of the people want only an interpreter, the thinking community an organ, and
suffering humanity a champion, distinguished is the honor belonging to the individual in whom
all these requisites are found combined.

To you has been assigned by Providence the important task of educing the latent emotions of
humanity, and waking the music that slumbered in the chords of the universal human heart, till
it has pealed forth in one deep far rolling and harmonious anthem, of which the heavenly burden
is, "Liberty to the captive, and the opening of the prison to them that are bound!"

The production of your accomplished pen, which has already called forth such unqualified eulogy
from almost every land where Anglo-Saxon literature finds access, and created so sudden and
fervent an excitement on the momentous subject of American slavery, has nowhere been hailed
with a more cordial welcome, or produced more salutary effects, than in the city of Aberdeen.

Though long ago imbued, with antislavery principles and interested in the progress of liberty
in every part of the world, our community, like many others, required such information, suggestions,
and appeals as your valuable work contains in one great department of slavery, in order that
their interest might be turned into a specific direction, and their principles reduced, to
combined practical effort.

Already they have esteemed it a privilege to engage with some activity in the promotion of
the interests of the fugitive slave; and they shall henceforth regard with a deeper interest
than ever the movements of their American brethren in this matter, until there exists among
them no slavery from which to flee.

While they participate in your abhorrence of slavery in the American states, they trust they
need scarcely assure you that they participate also in your love for the American people.

It is in proportion as they love that nation, attached to them by so many ties, that they lament
the existence of a system which, so long as it exists, must bring odium upon the national character,
as it cannot fail to enfeeble and impair their best social institutions.

They believe it to be a maxim that man cannot hold his fellow-man in slavery without being
himself to some extent enslaved. And of this the censorship of the press, together with the
expurgatorial indices of various religious societies in the Southern States of America, furnish
ample corroboration.

It is hoped that your own nation may speedily be directed to recognize you as its best friend,
for having stood forth in the spirit of true patriotism to advocate the claims of a large portion
of your countrymen, and to seek the removal of an evil which has done much to neutralize the
moral influence of your country's best (and otherwise free) institutions.

Accept, then, from the community of Aberdeen their congratulations on the high literary fame
which you have by a single effort so deservedly acquired, and their grateful acknowledgments
for your advocacy of a cause in which the best interests of humanity are involved.

Signed in name and by appointment of a public meeting of the citizens of Aberdeen within the
County Buildings, this 21st April, 1853, A.D.

GEO. HESSAY,

Provost of Aberdeen.

PUBLIC MEETING IN DUNDEE--APRIL 22.

MR. GILFILLAN, who was received with great applause, said he had been intrusted by the Committee
of the Ladies' Antislavery Association to present the following address to Mrs. Stowe, which
he would read to the meeting:--

"MADAM: We, the ladies of the Dundee Antislavery Association, desire to add our feeble voices
to the acclamations of a world, conscious that your fame and character need no testimony from
us. We are less anxious to honor you than to prove that our appreciation and respect are no
less sincere and no less profound than those of the millions in other places and other lands,
whom you have instructed, improved, delighted, and thrilled. We beg permission to lay before
you the expressions of a gratitude and an enthusiasm in some measure commensurate with your
transcendent literary merit and moral worth. We congratulate you on the success of the chef-d'oeuvre
of your genius, a success altogether unparalleled, and in all probability never to be paralleled
in the history of literature. We congratulate you still more warmly on that nobility and benevolence
of nature which made you from childhood the friend of the unhappy slave, and led you to accumulate
unconsciously the materials for the immortal tale of Uncle Tom's Cabin. We congratulate you
in having in that tale supported with matchless eloquence and pathos the cause of the crushed,
the forgotten, the injured, of those who had no help of man at all, and who had even been blasphemously
taught by professed ministers of the gospel of mercy that Heaven too was opposed to their liberation,
and had blotted them out from the catalogue of man. We recognize, too, with delight, the spirit
of enlightened and evangelical piety which breathes through your work, and serves to confute
the calumny that none but infidels are interested in the cause of abolition--a calumny which
cuts at Christianity with a yet sharper edge than at abolition, but which you have proved to
be a foul and malignant falsehood. We congratulate you not only on the richness of the laurels
which you have won, but on the dignity, the meekness, and the magnanimity with which these
laurels have been worn. We hail in you our most gifted sister in the great cause of liberty--we
bid you warmly welcome to our city, and we pray Almighty God, the God of the oppressed, to
pour his selectest blessings on your head, and to spare your invaluable life, till yours, and
ours, and others' efforts for the cause of abolition are crowned with success, and till the
shouts of a universal jubilee shall proclaim that in all quarters of the globe the African
is free."

The address was handed to Mrs. Stowe amid great applause. MR. GILFILLAN continued: "In addition
to the address which I have now read, I have been requested to add a few remarks; and in making
these I cannot but congratulate Dundee on the fact that Mrs. Stowe has visited it, and that
she has had a reception worthy of her distinguished merits. [Applause.] It is not Dundee alone
that is present here to-night: it is Forfarshire, Fifeshire, and I may also add, Perthshire:--that
are here to do honor to themselves in doing honor to our illustrious guest. [Cheers.] There
are assembled here representatives of the general feeling that boils in the whole land--not
from our streets alone, but from our country valleys--from our glens and our mountains O! I
wish that Mrs. Stowe would but spare time to go herself and study that enthusiasm amid its
own mountain recesses, amid the uplands and the friths, and the wild solitudes of our own unconquered
and unconquerable land. She would see scenery there worthy of that pencil which has painted
so powerfully the glories of the Mississippi; ay, and she would find her name known and reverenced
in every hamlet, and see copies of Uncle Tom's Cabin in the shepherd's shieling, beside Bunyan's
Pilgrim's Progress, the Life of Sir William Wallace, Rob Roy, and the Gaelic Bible. I saw copies
of it carried by travellers last autumn among the gloomy grandeurs of Glencoe, and, as Coleridge
once said when he saw Thomson's Seasons lying in a Welsh wayside inn, 'That is true fame,'
I thought this was fame truer still. [Applause.] It is too late in the day to criticize Uncle
Tom's Cabin, or to speculate on its unprecedented history--a history which seems absolutely
magical. Why, you are reminded of Aladdin's lamp, and of the palace that was reared by genii
in one night. Mrs. Stowe's genius has done a greater wonder than this--it has reared in a marvellously
short time a structure which, unlike that Arabian fabric, is a reality, and shall last forever.
[Applause.] She must not be allowed, to depreciate herself, and to call her glorious book a
mere 'bubble.' Such a bubble there never was before. I wish we had ten thousand such bubbles.
[Applause.] If it had been a bubble it would have broken long ago. 'Man,' says Jeremy Taylor,
'is a bubble.' Yea, but he is an immortal one. And such an immortal bubble is Uncle Tom's Cabin;
it can only with man expire; and yet a year ago not ten individuals in this vast assembly had
ever heard of its author's name. [Applause.] At its artistic merits we may well marvel--to
find in a small volume the descriptive power of a Scott, the humor of a Dickens, the keen,
observing glance of a Thackeray, the pathos of a Richardson or Mackenzie, combined with qualities
of earnestness, simplicity, humanity, and womanhood peculiar to the author herself. But there
are three things which, strike me as peculiarly remarkable about Uncle Tom's Cabin: it is the
work of an American--of a woman--and of an evangelical Christian. [Cheers.] We have long been
accustomed to despise American literature--I mean as compared with our own. I have heard eminent
litterateurs say, 'Pshaw! the Americans have no national literature.' It was thought that they
lived entirely on plunder--the plunder of poor slaves, and of poor British authors. [Loud cheers.]
Their own works, when, they came among us, were treated either with contempt or with patronizing
wonder--yes, the 'Sketch Book' was a very good book to be an American's. To parody two lines
of Pope, we

  Admired such wisdom in a Yankee shape,
  And showed an Irving as they show an ape.'

[Loud cheers.] And yet, strange to tell, not only of late have we been almost deluged with
editions of new and excellent American writers, but the most popular book of the century has
appeared on the west side of the Atlantic. Let us hear no more of the poverty of American brains,
or the barrenness of American literature. Had it produced only Uncle Tom's Cabin, it had evaded
contempt just as certainly as Don Quixote, had there been no other product of the Spanish mind,
would have rendered it forever illustrious. It is the work of a woman, too! None but a woman
could have written it. There are in the human mind springs at once delicate and deep, which
only the female genius can understand, or the female finger touch. Who but a female could have
created the gentle Eva, painted the capricious and selfish Marie St. Clair, or turned loose
a Topsy upon the wondering world? [Loud and continued cheering.] And it is to my mind exceedingly
delightful, and it must be humiliating to our opponents, to remember that the severest stroke
to American slavery has been given by a woman's hand. [Loud cheers.] It was the smooth stone
from the brook which, sent from the hand of a youthful David, overthrew Goliath of Gath; but
I am less reminded of this than of another incident in Scripture history. Mrs. Stowe has thrown
a piece of millstone, sharp and strong, at the skull of the giant abomination of her country;
he is reeling in his death pangs, and, in the fury of his despair and shame, is crying, but
crying in vain, 'Say not, A woman slew me!' [Applause.] But the world shall say, 'A woman slew
him,' or, at least, 'gave him the first blow, and drove him to despair and suicide.' [Cheers.]
Lastly, it is the work of an evangelical Christian; and the piety of the book has greatly contributed
to its power. It has forever wiped away the vile calumny, that all who love their African brother
hate their God and Savior. I look, indeed, on Mrs. Stowe's volume, not only as a noble contribution
to the cause of emancipation, but to the general cause of Christianity. It is an olive leaf
in a dove's mouth, testifying that the waters of scepticism, which have rolled more fearfully
far in America than here,--and no wonder, if the Christianity of America in general is a slaveholding,
man-stealing, soul-murdering Christianity--that they are abating, and that genuine liberty
and evangelical religion are soon to clasp hands, and to smile in unison on the ransomed, regenerated,
and truly 'United States.' [Loud and reiterated applause.]"

ADDRESS OF THE STUDENTS OF GLASGOW UNIVERSITY--APRIL 25.

This address is particularly gratifying on account of its recognition of the use of intoxicating
drinks as an evil analogous to slaveholding, and to be eradicated by similar means. The two
reforms are in all respects similar movements, to be promoted in the same manner and with the
same spirit.

MRS. HARRIET BEECHER STOWE.

MADAM: The Committee of the Glasgow University Abstainers' Society, representing nearly one
hundred students, embrace the opportunity which you have so kindly afforded them, of expressing
their high esteem for you, and their appreciation of your noble efforts in behalf of the oppressed.
They cordially join in the welcome with which you have been so justly received on these shores,
and earnestly hope and pray that your visit may be beneficial to your own health, and tend
greatly to the furtherance of Christian philanthropy.

The committee have had their previous convictions confirmed, and their hearts deeply affected,
by your vivid and faithful delineations of slavery; and they desire to join with thousands
on both sides of the Atlantic, who offer fervent thanksgiving to God for having endowed you
with those rare gifts, which have qualified you for producing the noblest testimony against
slavery, next to the Bible, which the world has ever received.

While giving all the praise to God, from whom cometh every good and perfect gift, they may
be excused for mentioning three characteristics of your writings regarding slavery, which awakened
their admiration--a sensibility befitting the anguish of suffering millions; the graphic power
which presents to view the complex and hideous system, stripped of all its deceitful disguises;
and the moral courage that was required to encounter the monster, and drag it forth to the
gaze and the execration of mankind.

The committee feel humbled in being called to confess and deplore, as existing among ourselves,
another species of slavery, not less ruinous in its tendency, and not less criminal in the
sight of God--we mean the slavery by strong drink. We feel too much ashamed of the sad preëminence
which these nations have acquired in regard to this vice to take any offence at the reproaches
cast upon us from across the Atlantic. Such smiting shall not break our head. We are anxious
to profit by it. Yet when it is used as an argument to justify slavery, or to silence our respectful
but earnest remonstrances, we take exception to the parallelism on which these arguments are
made to rest. We do not justify our slavery. We do not try to defend it from the Scriptures.
We do not make laws to uphold it. The unhappy victims of our slavery have all forged and riveted
their own fetters. We implore them to forbear; but, alas! in many cases without success. We
invite them to be free, and offer our best assistance to undo their bonds. When a fugitive
slave knocks at our door, escaping from a cruel master, we try to accost him in the spirit
or in the words of a well-known philanthropist, "Come in, brother, and get warm, and get thy
breakfast." And when distinguished American philanthropists, who have done so much to undo
the heavy burdens in their own land, come over to assist us, we hail their advent with rejoicing,
and welcome them as benefactors. We are well aware that a corresponding feeling would be manifested
in the United States by a portion, doubtless a large portion, of the population; but certainly
not by those who justify or palliate their own oppression by a reference to our lamentable
intemperance.

We rejoice, madam, to know that as abstainers we can claim an important place, pot only in
your sympathies, but in your literary labors. We offer our hearty thanks for the valuable contributions
you have already furnished in that momentous cause, and for the efforts of that distinguished
family with which you are connected.

We bear our testimony to the mighty impulse imparted to the public mind by the extensive circulation
of those memorable sermons which your honored father gave to Europe, as well as to America,
more than twenty-five years ago. It will be pleasing to him to know that the force of his arguments
is felt in British universities to the present time, and that not only students in augmenting
numbers, but learned professors, acknowledge their cogency and yield to their power.

Permit us to add that a movement has already begun, in an influential quarter in England, for
the avowed purpose of combining the patriotism and Christianity of these nations in a strenuous
agitation for the suppression, by the legislature, of the traffic in alcoholic drinks.

In conclusion, the committee have only further to express their cordial thanks for your kindness
in receiving their address, and their desire and prayer that you may be long spared to glorify
God, by promoting the highest interests of man; that if it so please him, you may live to see
the glorious fruit of your labors here cm earth, and that hereafter you may meet the blessed
salutation, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have
done it unto me."

NORMAN S. KERR, Secretary.

STEWART BATES, President.

GLASGOW, 25th April, 1853.

LOUD MAYOR'S DINNER AT THE MANSION HOUSE, LONDON--MAY 2.

MR. JUSTICE TALFOURD,[D] having spoken of the literature of England and America, alluded to
two distinguished authors then present. The one was a lady, who had shed a lustre on the literature
of America, and whose works were deeply engraven on every English heart. He spoke particularly
of the consecration of so much genius to so noble a cause--the cause of humanity; and expressed
the confident hope that the great American people would see and remedy the wrongs so vividly
depicted. The learned judge, having paid an eloquent tribute to the works of Mr. Charles Dickens,
concluded by proposing "Mr. Charles Dickens and the literature of the Anglo-Saxons."

Mr. CHARLES DICKENS returned thanks. In referring to Mrs. H.B. Stowe, he observed that, in
returning thanks, he could not forget he was in the presence of a stranger who was the authoress
of a noble book, with a noble purpose. But he had no right to call her a stranger, for she
would find a welcome in every English home.

STAFFORD HOUSE RECEPTION--MAY 7.

The DUKE OF SUTHERLAND having introduced Mrs. Stowe to the assembly, the following short address
was read and presented to her by the EARL OF SHAFTESBURY:--

"Madam: I am deputed by the Duchess of Sutherland, and the ladies of the two committees appointed
to conduct 'The Address from the Women of England, to the Women of America on the Subject of
Slavery,' to express the high gratification they feel in your presence amongst them this day.

"The address, which has received considerably more than half a million of the signatures of
the women of Great Britain and Ireland, they have already transmitted to the United States,
consigning it to the care of those whom you have nominated as fit and zealous persons to undertake
the charge in your absence.

"The earnest desire of these committees, and, indeed, we may say of the whole kingdom, is to
cultivate the most friendly and affectionate relations between the two countries; and we cannot
but believe that we are fostering such a feeling when we avow our deep admiration of an American
lady who, blessed by the possession of vast genius and intellectual powers, enjoys the still
higher blessing, that she devotes them to the glory of God and the temporal and eternal interests
of the human race."

CONGREGATIONAL UNION--MAY 13.

The REV. JOHN ANGELL JAMES said, "I will only for one moment revert to the resolution.[E] It
does equal honor to the head, and the heart, and the pen of the man who drew it. Beautiful
in language, Christian in spirit, noble and generous in design, it is just such a resolution
as I shall be glad to see emanate from the Congregational body, and find its way across the
Atlantic to America. Sir, we speak most powerfully, when, though we speak firmly, we speak
in kindness; and there is nothing in that resolution that can, by possibility, offend the most
fastidious taste of any individual present, or any individual in the world, who takes the same
views of the evil of slavery, in itself, as we do. [Hear, hear!] I shall not trespass long
upon the attention of this audience, for we are all impatient to hear Professor Stowe speak
in his own name, and in the name of that distinguished lady whom it is his honor and his happiness
to call his wife. [Loud cheers.] His station and his acquirements, his usefulness in America,
his connection with our body, his representation of the Pilgrim Fathers who bore the light
of Christianity to his own country, all make him welcome here. [Cheers.] But he will not be
surprised if it is not on his own account merely that we give him welcome, but also on account
of that distinguished woman to whom so marked an allusion has already been made. To her, I
am sure, we shall tender no praise, except the praise that comes to her from a higher source
than ours; from One who has, by the testimony of her own conscience, echoing the voice from
above, said to her, 'Well done, good and faithful servant.' Long, sir, may it be before the
completion of the sentence; before the welcome shall be given to her, when she shall hear him
say, 'Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord.' [Loud cheers.] But, though we praise her not, or
praise with chastened language, we would say, Madam, we do thank you from the bottom of our
hearts, [Hear, hear! and immense cheering,] for rising up to vindicate our outraged humanity;
for rising up to expound the principles of our still nobler Christianity. For my own part,
it is not merely as an exposition of the evils of slavery that makes me hail that wondrous
volume to our country and to the world; but it is the living exposition of the principles of
the gospel that it contains, and which will expound those principles to many an individual
who would not hear them from our lips, nor read them from our pens. I maintain, that Uncle
Tom is one of the most beautiful imbodiments of the Christian religion that was ever presented
in this world. [Loud cheers.] And it is that which makes me take such delight in it. I rejoice
that she killed him. [Laughter and cheers.] He must die under the slave lash--he must die,
the martyr of slavery, and receive the crown of martyrdom from both worlds for his testimony
to the truth. [Turning to Mrs. Stowe, Mr. James continued:] May the Lord God reward you for
what you have done; we cannot, madam--we cannot do it. [Cheers.] We rejoice in the perfect
assurance, in the full confidence, that the arrow which is to pierce the system of slavery
to the heart has been shot, and shot by a female hand. Right home to the mark it will go. [Cheers.]
It is true, the monster may groan and struggle for a long while yet; but die it will; die it
must--under the potency of that book. [Loud cheers.] It never can recover. It will be your
satisfaction, perhaps, in this world, madam, to see the reward of your labors. Heaven grant
that your life may be prolonged, until such time as you see the reward of your labors in the
striking off of the last fetter of the last slave that still pollutes the soil of your beloved
country. [Cheers.] For beloved it is; and I should do dishonor to your patriotism if I did
not say it--beloved it is; and you are prepared to echo the sentiments, by changing the terms,
which we often hear in old England, and say,--

  'America! with all thy faults I love thee still!'

But still more intense will be my affection, and pure and devoted the ardor of my patriotism,
when this greatest of all thine ills, this darkest of the blots upon thine escutcheon, shall
be wiped out forever." [Loud applause.]

The REV. PROFESSOR STOWE rose amid loud, and repeated cheers, and said, "It is extremely painful
for me to speak on the subject of American slavery, and especially out of the borders of my
own country. [Hear, hear!] I hardly know whether painful or pleasurable emotions predominate,
when I look upon the audience to which I speak. I feel a very near affinity to the Congregationalists
of England, and especially to the Congregationalists of London. [Cheers.] My ancestors were
residents of London; at least, from the time of Edward III.; they lived in Cornhill and Leadenhall
Street, and their bones lie buried in the old church of St. Andrew Under-Shaft; and, in the
year 1632, on account of their nonconformity, they were obliged to seek refuge in the State
of Massachusetts; and I have always felt a love and a veneration for the Congregational churches
of England, more than for any other churches in any foreign land. [Cheers.] I can only hope,
that my conduct, as a religious man and a minister of Christ, may not bring discredit upon
my ancestors, and upon the honorable origin which I claim. [Hear! and cheers.] I wish to say,
in the first place, that in the United States the Congregational churches, as a body, are free
from slavery. [Cheers.] I do not think that there is a Congregational church in the United
States in which a member could openly hold a slave without subjecting himself to discipline.[F]
True, I have met with churches very deficient in their duty on this subject, and I am afraid
there are members of Congregational churches who hold slaves secretly as security for debt
in the Southern States. At the last great Congregational Convention, held in the city of Albany,
the churches took a step on the subject of slavery much in advance of any other great ecclesiastical
body in the country. I hope it is but the beginning of a series of measures that will eventuate
in the separation of this body from all connection with slavery. [Hear, hear!] I am extensively
acquainted with the United States; I have lived in different sections of them; I am familiar
with people of all classes, and it is my solemn conviction, that nine tenths of the people
feel on the subject of slavery as you do;[G] [cheers;] perhaps not so intensely, for familiarity
with wrong deadens the conscience; but their convictions are altogether as yours are; and in
the slaveholding states, and among slaveholders themselves, conscience is against the system.
[Cheers.] There is no legislative control of the subject of slavery, except by slaveholding
legislators themselves. Congress has no right to do any thing in the premises. They violated
the constitution, as I believe, in passing the Fugitive Slave Act. [Cheers.] I do not believe
they had any right to pass it. [Hear, hear!] I stand here not as the representative of any
body whatever. I only represent myself, and give you my individual convictions, that have been
produced by a long and painful connection with the subject. [Hear, hear!] As to the resolution,
I approve it entirely. Its sentiment and its spirit are my own. [Cheers.] At the close of the
revolutionary war, which separated the colonies from the mother country, every state of the
Union was a slaveholding state; every colony was a slaveholding colony; and now we have seventeen
free states. [Cheers.] Slavery has been abolished in one half of the original colonies, and
it was declared that there should be neither slavery nor the slave trade in any territory north
and west of the Ohio River; so that all that part is entirely free from actual active participation
in this curse, laying open a free territory that, I think, must be ten times larger in extent
than Great Britain. [Loud cheers.] The State of Massachusetts was the first in which slavery
ceased. How did it cease? By an enactment of the legislature? Not at all. They did not feel
there was any necessity for such an enactment. The Bill of Rights declared, that all men were
born free, and that they had an equal right to the pursuit of happiness and the acquisition
of property. In contradiction to that, there were slaves in every part of Massachusetts; and
some philanthropic individual advised a slave to bring into court an action for wages against
his master during all his time of servitude. The action was brought, and the court decided
that the negro was entitled to wages during the whole period. [Cheers.] That put an end to
slavery in Massachusetts, and that decision ought to have put an end to slavery in all states
of the Union, because the law applied to all. They abolished slavery in all the Northern States--in
Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Connecticut, and Rhode Island; and it was expected that the
whole of the states would follow the example. When I was a child, I never heard a lisp in defence
of slavery. [Hear, hear, hear!] Every body condemned it; all looked upon it as a great curse,
and all regarded it as a temporary evil, which would soon melt away before the advancing light
of truth. [Hear, hear!] But still there was great injustice done to those who had been slaves.
Every body regarded the colored race as a degraded race; they were looked upon as inferior;
they were not upon terms of social equality. The only thing approaching it was, that the colored
children attended the schools with the white children, and took their places on the same forms;
but in all other respects they were excluded from the common advantages and privileges of society.
In the places of worship they were seated by themselves; and that difference always existed
till these discussions came up, and they began to feel mortified at their situation; and hence,
wherever they could, they had worship by themselves, and began to build places of worship for
themselves; and now you will scarcely find a colored person occupying a seat in our places
of worship. This stain still remains, and it is but a type of the feeling that has been generated
by slavery. This ought to be known and understood, and this is just one of the out-croppings
of that inward feeling that still is doing great injustice to the colored race; but there are
symptoms of even that giving way.

"I suppose you all remember Dr. Pennington--[cheers]--a colored minister of great talent and
excellence--[Hear, hear!]--though born a slave, and for many years was a fugitive slave. [Hear,
hear.] Dr. Pennington is a member of the presbytery of New York; and within the last six months
he has been chosen moderator of that presbytery. [Loud cheers.] He has presided in that capacity
at the ordination of a minister to one of the most respectable churches of that city. So far
so good--we rejoice in it, and we hope that the same sense of justice which has brought about
that change, so that a colored man can be moderator of a Presbytery in the city of New York,
will go on, till full justice is done to these people, and until the grievous wrongs to which
they have been subjected will be entirely done away. [Cheers.] But still, what is the aspect
which the great American nation now presents to the Christian world? Most sorry am I to say
it; but it is just this--a Christian republic upholding slavery--the only great nation on earth
that does uphold it--a great Christian republic, which, so far as the white people are concerned,
is the fairest and most prosperous nation on earth--that great Christian republic using all
the power of its government to secure and to shield this horrible institution of negro slavery
from aggression; and there is no subject on which the government is so sensitive--there is
no institution which it manifests such a determination to uphold. [Hear, hear!] And then the
most melancholy fact of all is, that the entire Christian church in that republic, with few
exceptions, are silent, or are apologists for this great wrong. [Hear, hear!] It makes my heart
bleed to think of it; and there are many praying and weeping in secret places over this curse,
whose voices are not heard. There is such a pressure on the subject, it is so mixed up with
other things, that many sigh over it who know not what to say or what to do in reference to
it. And what kind of slavery is it? Is it like the servitude under the Mosaic law, which is
brought forward to defend it? Nothing like it. Let me read you a little extract from a correspondent
of a New York paper, writing from Paris. I will read it, because it is so graphic, and because
I wish to show from what sources you may best ascertain the real nature of American slavery.
The commercial newspapers, published by slaveholders, in slaveholding states, will give you
a far more graphic idea of what slavery actually is, than you have from Uncle Tom's Cabin;
for there the most horrible features are softened. This writer says, 'And now a word on American
representatives abroad. I have already made my complaint of the troubles brought on Americans
here by that "incendiary" book of Mrs. Stowe's, especially of the difficulty we have in making
the French understand our institutions. But there was one partially satisfactory way of answering
their questions, by saying that Uncle Tom's Cabin was a romance. And this would have served
the purpose pretty well, and spared our blushes for the model republic, if the slaveholders
themselves would only withhold their testimony to the truth of what we were willing to let
pass as fiction. But they are worse than Mrs. Stowe herself, and their writings are getting
to be quoted here quite extensively. The Moniteur of to-day, and another widely-circulated
journal that lies on my table, both contain extracts from those extremely incendiary periodicals,
The National Intelligencer, of February 11, and The N.O. Picayune, of February 17. The first
gives an auctioneer's advertisement of the sale of "a negro boy of eighteen years, a negro
girl aged sixteen, three horses, saddles, bridles, wheelbarrows," &c. Then follows an account
of the sale, which reads very much like the description, in the dramatic feuilletons here,
of a famous scene in the Case de l'Oncle Tom, as played at the Ambigu Comique. The second extract
is the advertisement of "our esteemed fellow-citizen, Mr. M.C.G.," who presents his "respects
to the inhabitants of O. and the neighbouring parishes," and "informs them that he keeps a
fine pack of dogs trained to catch negroes," &c. It is painful to think that there are men
in our country who will write, and that there are others found to publish, such tales as these
about our peculiar institution. I put it to Mr. G., if he thinks it is patriotic. As a "fellow-citizen,"
and in his private relations, G. may be an estimable man, for aught I know, a Christian and
a scholar, and an ornament to the social circles of O. and the neighboring parishes. But as
an author, G. becomes public property, and a fair theme for criticism; and in that capacity,
I say G. is publishing the shame of his country. I call him G., without the prefatory Mister,
not from any personal disrespect, much as I am grieved at his course as a writer, but because
he is now breveted for immortality, and goes down to posterity, like other immortals, without
titular prefix.' [Cheers.] Now, here is where you get the true features of slavery. What is
the reason that the churches, as a general thing, are silent--that some of them are apologists,
and that some, in the extreme Southern States, actually defend slavery, and say it is a good
institution, and sanctioned by Scripture? It is simply this--the overwhelming power of the
slave system; and whence comes that overwhelming power? It comes from its great influence in
the commercial world. [Hear!] Until the time that cotton became so extensively an article of
export, there was not a word said in defence of slavery, as far as I know, in the United States.
In 1818, the Presbyterian General Assembly passed resolutions unanimously on the subject of
slavery, to which this resolution is mildness itself; and not a man could be found to say one
word against it. But cotton became a most valuable article of export. In one form and another,
it became intimately associated with the commercial affairs of the whole country. The northern
manufacturers were intimately connected with this cotton trade, and more than two thirds raised
in the United States has been sold in Great Britain; and it is this cotton trade that supports
the whole system. That you may rely upon. The sugar and rice, so far as the United States are
concerned, are but small interests. The system is supported by this cotton trade, and within
two days I have seen an article written with vigor in the Charleston Mercury, a southern paper
of great influence, saying, that the slaveholders are becoming isolated, by the force of public
opinion, from the rest of the world. They are beginning to be regarded as inhuman tyrants,
and the slaves the victims of their cruelty; but, says the writer, just so long as you take
our cotton, we shall have our slaves. Now, you are as really involved in this matter as we
are--[Hear, hear!]--and if you have no other right to speak on the subject, you have a right
to speak from being yourselves very active participators in the wrong. You have a great deal
of feeling on the subject, honorable and generous feeling, I know--an earnest, philanthropic,
Christian feeling; but if you have nothing to do, that feeling will all evaporate, and leave
an apathy behind. Now, here is something to be done. It may be a small beginning, but, as you
go forward, Providence will develop other plans, and the more you do, the further you will
see. I am happy to know that a beginning has been made. There are indications that a way has
been so opened in providence that this exigency can be met. Within the last few years, the
Chinese have begun to emigrate to the western parts of the United States. They will maintain
themselves on small wages; and wherever they come into actual competition with slave labor,
it cannot compete with them. Very many of the slaveholders have spoken of this as a very remarkable
indication. If slavery had been confined to the original slave states, as it was intended,
slavery could not have lived. It was the intention that it should never go beyond those boundaries.
Had this been the case, it would increase the number of slaves so much that they would have
been valueless as articles of property. I must say this for America, that the slaves increase
in the slave states faster than the white people; and it shows that their physical condition
is better than was that of the slaves at the West Indies, or in Cuba, where the number actually
diminished. We must have more slave territories to make our slaves valuable, and there was
the origin of that iniquitous Mexican war, whereby was added the vast territory of Texas; and
then it was the intention to make California a slave state; but, I am happy to say, it has
been received into the Union as a free state, and God grant it may continue so. [Hear, hear!]
What has been the effect of this expansion of slave territory? It has doubled the value of
slaves. Since I can remember, a strong slave man would sell for about four hundred or six hundred
dollars--that is, about one hundred pounds; but now, during the present season, I have known
instances in which a slave man has been sold for two hundred and thirty pounds. There are more
slaves raised in Virginia and Maryland than they can use in those states in labor, and, therefore,
they sell them at one hundred, two hundred, or three hundred pounds, as the case may be, for
cash. All that Mrs. Tyler intimates in that letter about slavery in America, and the impression
it is calculated and intended to convey, that they treat their slaves so well, and do not separate
their families, and so forth, is all mere humbug. [Laughter and cheers.] It is well known that
Virginia has more profit from selling negroes than from any other source. The great sources
of profit are tobacco and negroes, and they derive more from the sale of negroes than tobacco.
You see the temptation this gives to avarice. Suppose there is a man with no property, except
fifteen or twenty negro men, whom he can sell, each one for two hundred pounds, cash; and he
has as many negro women, whom he can sell for one hundred and fifty pounds, cash, and the children
for one hundred pounds each: here is a temptation to avarice; and it is calculated to silence
the voice of conscience; and it is the expansion of the slave territory, and the immense mercantile
value of the cotton, that has brought so powerful an influence to bear on the United States
in favor of slavery. [Hear, hear.] Now, as to free labor coming into competition with slave
labor: You will see, that when the price of slaves is so enormous, it requires an immense outlay
to stock a plantation. A good plantation would take two hundred, or three hundred hands. Now,
say for every hand employed on this plantation, the man must pay on an average two hundred
pounds, which is not exorbitant at the present time. If he has to pay at this rate, what an
immense outlay of capital to begin with, and how great the interest on that sum continually
accumulating! And then there is the constant exposure to loss. These plantation negroes are
very careless of life, and often cholera gets among them, and sweeps off twenty-five or thirty
in a few days; and then there is the underground railroad, and, with all the precautions that
can be taken, it continues to work. And now you see what an immense risk, and exposure to loss,
and a vast outlay of capital, there is in connection with this system. But, if a man takes
a cotton farm, and can employ Chinese laborers, he can get them for one or two shillings a
day, and they will do the work as well, if not better than negroes, and there is no outlay
or risk. [Hear, hear!]. If good cotton fields can be obtained, as they may in time, here is
an opening which will tend to weaken the slave system. If Christians will investigate this
subject, and if philanthropists generally will pursue these inquiries in an honest spirit,
it is not long before we shall see a movement throughout the civilized world, and the upholders
of slavery will feel, where they feel most acutely--in their pockets. Until something of this
kind is done, I despair of accomplishing any great amount of good by simple appeals to the
conscience and right principle. There are a few who will listen to conscience and a sense of
right, but there are unhappily only a few. I suppose, though you have good Christians here,
you have many who will put their consciences in their pockets. [Hear, hear!] I have known cases
of this kind. There was a young lady in the State of Virginia who was left an orphan, and she
had no property except four negro slaves, who were of great commercial value. She felt that
slavery was wrong, and she could not hold them. She gave them their freedom--[cheers]--and
supported herself by teaching a small school. [Cheers.] Now, notwithstanding all the unfavorable
things we see--notwithstanding the dark cloud that hangs over the country, there are hopeful
indications that God has not forgotten us, and that he will carry on this work till it is accomplished.
[Hear!] But it will be a long while first, I fear; and we must pray, and labor, and persevere;
for he that perseveres to the end, and he only, receives the crown. Now, there are very few
in the United States who undertake to defend slavery, and say it is right. But the great majority,
even of professors of religion, unite to shield it from aggression. 'It is the law of the land,'
they say, 'and we must submit to it.' It seems a strange doctrine to come from the lips of
the descendants of the Puritans, those who resisted the law of the land because those laws
were against their conscience, and finally went over to that new world, in order that they
might enjoy the rights of conscience. How would it have been with the primitive church if this
doctrine had prevailed? There never would have been any Christian church, for that was against
the laws of the land. In regard to the distribution of the Bible, in many states the laws prohibit
the teaching of slaves, and the distribution of the Bible is not allowed among them. The American
Bible Society does not itself take the responsibility of this. It leaves the whole matter to
the local societies in the several states, and it is the local societies that take the responsibility.
Well, why should we obey the law of the land in South Carolina on this subject, and disobey
the law of the land in Italy? But our missionary societies and Bible societies send Bibles
to other parts of the world, and never ask if it is contrary to the law of these lands, and
if it is, they push it all the more zealously. They send Bibles to Italy and Spain, and yet
the Bible is prohibited by those governments. The American Tract Society and the American Sunday
School Union allow none of their issues to utter a syllable against slavery. They expunge even
from their European books every passage of this kind, and excuse themselves by the law and
the public sentiment. So are the people taught. There has been a great deal said on the subject
of influence from abroad; but those who talk in that way interfered with the persecution of
the Madiai, and remonstrated with the Tuscan government. We have had large meetings on the
subject in New York, and those who refuse the Bible to the slave took part in that meeting,
and did not seem to think there was any inconsistency in their conduct.

"The Christian church knows no distinction of nations. In that church there is neither Greek
nor Jew, Barbarian, Scythian, bond nor free, but all are one in Christ; and whatever affects
one part of the body affects the other, and the whole Christian church every where is bound
to help, and encourage, and rebuke, as the case may require. The Christian church is every
where bound to its corresponding branch in every other country; and thus you have, not only
a right, but it is your duty, to consider the case of the American slave with just the same
interest with which you consider the cause of the native Hindoo, when you send out your missionaries
there, or with which you consider Madagascar; and to express yourselves in a Christian spirit,
and in a Christian way continually, till you see that your admonitions have had a suitable
influence. I do not doubt what you say, that you will receive with great pleasure men who come
from the United States to promote the cause of temperance, and you may have the opportunity
of showing your sincerity before long; and the manner in which you receive them will have a
very important bearing on the subject of slavery. [Cheers.] I have not the least doubt you
will hail with joy those who will come across the Atlantic to advance and promote still more
earnestly those noble institutions, the ragged schools and the ragged churches. [Cheers.] The
men who want to do good at home are the men who do good abroad; and the same spirit of Christian
liberality that leads you to feel for the American slave will lead you to care for your own
poor, and those in adverse circumstances in your own land, I would ask, Is it possible, then,
that admonition and reproof given in a Christian spirit, and by a Christian heart, can fail
to produce a right influence on a Christian spirit and a Christian heart? I think the thing
is utterly impossible; and that if such admonitions as are contained in the resolution, conceived
in such a spirit, and so kindly expressed--if they are not received in a Christian spirit,
it is because the Christian spirit has unhappily fled. I can answer for myself, at least, and
many of my brethren, that it will be so; and, so far from desiring you to withhold your expressions
on account of any bad feeling that they might excite, I wish you to reiterate them, and reiterate
them in the same spirit in which they are given in this resolution; for I believe that these
expressions of impatience and petulance represent the feelings of very few. Who is it that
always speaks first? The angry man, and it comes out at once; but the wise man keeps it in
till afterwards; and it will not be long before you will find, that whatever you say in a Christian
spirit will be responded to on the other side of the water. Now, I believe our churches have
neglected their duty on this subject, and are still neglecting it. Many do not seem to know
what their duty is. Yet I believe them to be good, conscientious men, and men who will do their
duty when they know what it is. Take, for example, the American Board of Foreign Missions.
There are not better men, or more conscientious men, on the face of the earth, or men more
sincerely desirous of doing their duty; yet, in some things, I believe they are mistaken. I
think it would be better to throw over the very few churches connected with the Board which
are slaveholding, than to endeavor to sustain them, and to have all this pressure of responsibility
still upon them. But yet they are pursuing the course which they conscientiously think to be
right. Christian admonition will not be lost upon them.[H] I will say the same of the American
Home Missionary Society. They have little to do with slavery, as I have already remarked. Many
think they ought not to say any thing upon the subject, because they cannot do so without weakening
their influence. But then this question comes: If good men do not speak, who will?--[Hear,
hear!]--and, as our Savior said in regard to the children that shouted, Hosannah, 'If these
should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out.' It is in consequence of their
silence that stones have begun to cry out, and they rebuke the silence and apathy of good men;
and this is made an argument against religion, which has had effect with unthinking people;
so I think it absolutely necessary that men in the church, on that very ground, should speak
out their mind on this great subject at whatever risk--[cheers]--and they must take the consequences.
In due time God will prosper the right, and in due time the fetters will fall from every slave,
and the black man will have the same privileges as the white. [Applause.]"

ROYAL HIGHLAND SCHOOL SOCIETY DINNER, AT THE FREEMASON'S TAVERN, LONDON--MAY 14.

The Chairman, Sir ARCHIBALD ALISON, gave "The health of her Grace the Duchess of Sutherland,
and the noble patronesses of the Society," which was received with great applause. It was extremely
gratifying, he said, to find a lady, belonging to one of the most ancient and noblest families
of the kingdom, displaying so great an interest in their institution. [Cheers.] Not the least
of their obligations to her Grace was the opportunity she had given them to offer their respects
to a lady, remarkable alike for her genius and her philanthropy, who had come from across the
Atlantic, and who, by her philanthropic exertions in the cause of negro emancipation, had enlisted
the feelings and called forth the sympathies of thousands and tens of thousands on both sides
of the ocean. [Tremendous cheering.] She had shown that the genius, and talents, and energies,
which such a cause inspired, had created a species of freemasonry throughout the world; it
had set aside nationalities, and bound two nations together which the broad Atlantic could
not sever; and created a union of sentiment and purpose which he trusted would continue till
the great work of negro emancipation had been finally accomplished. [Cheers.]

PROFESSOR STOWE responded to the allusion which had been made to Mrs. Stowe, and was greeted
with hearty applause. He said he had read in his childhood the writings of Sir Walter Scott,
and thus became intensely interested in all that pertained to Scotland. [Cheers.] He had read,
more recently, his Life of Napoleon, and also Sir Archibald Alison's History of Europe. [Protracted
cheers.] But he certainly never expected to be called upon to address such an assembly as that,
and under such circumstances. Nothing could exceed the astonishment which was felt by himself
and Mrs. Stowe at the cordiality of their reception in every part of Great Britain, from persons
of every rank in life. [Cheers.] Every body seemed to have read her book. [Hear, hear! and
loud cheers.] Everyone seemed to have been deeply interested, [cheers,] and disposed to return
a full-hearted homage to the writer. But all she claimed credit for was truth, and honesty,
and earnestness of purpose. He had only to add that he cordially thanked the Royal Highland
School Society for the kindness which induced them to invite him and Mrs. Stowe to be present
that evening. [Cheers.] The work in which the society was engaged was one that they both held
dear, and in which they felt the deepest interest, inasmuch as that object was to promote the
education of youth among those whose poverty rendered them unable to provide the means of education
for themselves. [Hear, hear!] In such works as that they had themselves for most of their lives
been diligently engaged. [Cheers.]

ANTISLAVERY SOCIETY, EXETER HALL--MAY 16.

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, who, on coming forward to open the proceedings, was received with
much applause, spoke as follows: "We are assembled here this night to protest, with the utmost
intensity, and with all the force which language can command, against the greatest wrong that
the wickedness of man ever perpetrated upon his fellow-man--[loud cheers]--a wrong which, great
in all ages--great in heathen times--great in all countries--great even under heathen sentiments--is
indescribably monstrous in Christian days, and exercised as it is, not unfrequently, over Christian
people. [Hear!] It is surely remarkable, and exceedingly disgraceful to a century and a generation
so boastful of its progress, and of the institution of so many Bible societies, with so many
professions and preachments of Christianity--with so many declarations of the spiritual value
of man before God--after so many declarations of this equality of every man in the sight of
his fellow-man--that we should be assembled here this evening to protest against the conduct
of a mighty and a Protestant people, who, in the spirit of the Romish Babylon, which they had
renounced, resort to her most abominable practices--making merchandise of the temples of God,
and trafficking in the bodies and souls of men. [Cheers.] We are not here to proclaim and maintain
our own immaculate purity. We are not here to stand forward and say, 'I am holier than thou.'
We have confessed, and that openly, and freely, and unreservedly, our share, our heavy share,
in by-gone days, of vast wickedness; we have, we declare it again, and we had our deep remorse.
We sympathize with the preponderating bulk of the American people; we acknowledge and we feel
the difficulties which beset them; we rejoice and we believe in their good intentions; but
we have no patience--I at least have none--with those professed leaders, be they political
or be they clerical, who mislead the people--with those who, blasphemously resting slavery
on the Holy Scriptures, desecrate their pulpits by the promulgation of doctrines better suited
to the synagogue of Satan--[cheers]--nor with that gentleman who, the greatest officer of the
greatest republic in the whole world, in pronouncing an inaugural address to the assembled
multitudes, maintains the institution of slavery; and--will you believe it?--invokes the Almighty
God to maintain those rights, and thus sanction the violation of his own laws!--[Cries of 'Shame!']
This is, indeed, a dismal prospect for those who tremble at human power; but we have this consolation:
Is it not said that, 'When the enemy shall come in like a flood, the Spirit of the Lord shall
lift up a standard against him?' [Hear, hear!] He has done so now, and a most wonderful and
almost inspired protector has arisen for the suffering of this much injured race. [Loud cheers.]
Feeble as her sex, but irresistible as virtue and as truth, she will prove to her adversary,
and to ours, that such boasting shall not be for his honor, 'for the Lord will sell Sisera
into the hands of a woman.' [Hear, hear! and loud cheers.] Now, I ask you this: Is there one
of you who believes that the statements of that marvellous book to which we have alluded present
an exaggerated picture?--[Tremendous cries of 'No, no.'] Do they not know, say what they will,
that the truth is not fully stated? [Hear, hear!] The reality is worse than the fiction. [Hear,
hear!] But, apart from this, there is our solemn declaration that the vileness of the principle
is at once exhibited in the mere notion of slavery, and the atrocities of it are the natural
and almost inevitable consequences of the profession and exercise of absolute and irresponsible
power. [Hear, hear!] But do you doubt the fact? Look to the document. I will quote to you from
this book. I have never read any thing more strikingly illustrative or condemnatory of the
system we are here to denounce. Here is the judgment pronounced by one of the judges in North
Carolina. It is impossible to read this judgment, however terrible the conclusion, without
feeling convinced that the man who pronounced it was a man of a great mind, and, in spite of
the law he was bound to administer, a man of a great heart. [Hear, hear!] Hear what he says.
The case was this: It was a 'case of appeal,' in which the defendant had hired a slave woman
for a year. During this time she committed some slight offence, for which the defendant undertook
to chastise her. After doing so he shot at her as she was running away. The question then arose,
was he justified in using that amount of coercion? and whether the privilege of shooting was
not confined to the actual proprietor? The case was argued at some length, and the court, in
pronouncing judgment, began by deploring that any judge should ever be called upon to decide
such a case, but he had to administer the law, and not to make it. The judge said, 'With whatever
reluctance, therefore, the court is bound to express the opinion, that the dominion over a
slave in Carolina has not, as it has been argued, any analogy with the authority of a tutor
over a pupil, of a master over an apprentice, or of a parent over a child. The court does not
recognize these applications. There is no likeness between them. They are in opposition to
each other, and there is an impassable gulf between them. The difference is that which exists
between freedom and slavery--[Hear, hear!]--and a greater difference cannot be imagined. In
the one case, the end in view is the happiness of the youth, born to equal rights with the
tutor, whose duty it is to train the young to usefulness by moral and intellectual instruction.
If they will not suffice, a moderate chastisement maybe administered. But with slavery it is
far otherwise.' Mark these words, for they contain the whole thing. But with slavery it is
far otherwise. The end is the profit of the master, and the poor object is one doomed, in his
own person, and in his posterity, to live without knowledge, and without capacity to attain
any thing which he may call his own. He has only to labor, that another may reap the fruits.'
[Hear, hear!] Mark! this is from the sacred bench of justice, pronounced by one of the first
intellects in America! 'There is nothing else which can operate to produce the effect; the
power of the master must be absolute, to render the submission of the slave perfect. [Hear,
hear!] It is inherent in the relation of master and slave;' and then he adds those never-to-be-forgotten
words, 'We cannot allow the right of the master to come under discussion in the courts of justice.
The slave must be made sensible that there is no appeal from his master, and that his master's
power is in no instance usurped; that these rights are conferred by the laws of man, at least,
if not by the law of God.' [Loud cries of 'Shame, shame!'] This is the mode in which we are
to regard these two classes of beings, both created by the same God, and both redeemed by the
same Savior as ourselves, and destined to the same immortality! The judgment, on appeal, was
reversed; but, God be praised; there is another appeal, and that appeal we make to the highest
of all imaginable courts, where God is the judge, where mercy is the advocate, and where unerring
truth will pronounce the decision![Protracted cheering.] There are some who are pleased to
tell us that there is an inferiority in the race! That is untrue. [Cheers.] But we are not
here to inquire whether our black brethren will become Shakspeares or Herschels. [Hear, hear!]
I ask, are they immortal beings? [Great applause.] Do our adversaries, say no? I ask them,
then, to show me one word in the handwriting of God which has thus levelled them with the brute
beasts. [Hear, hear!] Let us bear in mind those words of our blessed Savior--'Whosoever shall
offend one of these little ones who believe in me, it were better that a millstone were hanged
about his neck, and that he were cast into the depths of the sea.' [Loud cheers.] Now, then,
what is our duty? Is it to stand still? Yes! when we receive the command from the same authority
that said to the sun, Stand over Gibeon! [Loud cheers.] Then, and not till then, will we stand
still. [Renewed cheers.] Are we to listen to the craven and miserable talk about 'doing more
harm than good'? [Hear, hear!] This was an argument which would have checked every noble enterprise
which has been undertaken since the world began. It would have strangled Wilberforce, and checked
the very Exodus itself from the house of bondage in Egypt. [Hear, hear!] Out on all such craven
talk! [Cheers.] Slavery is a mystery, and so is all sin, and we must fight against it; and,
by the blessing of God, we will. [Loud cheers.] We must pray to Almighty God, that we and our
American brethren--who seem now to be the sole depositories of the Protestant truth, and of
civil and religious liberty, may be as one. [Cheers.] We are feeble, if hostile; but, if united,
we are the arbiters of the world. [Cheers.] Let us join together for the temporal and spiritual
good of our race."

PROFESSOR STOWE then came forward, and was received with unbounded demonstrations of applause.
When the cheering had subsided, he said "he felt utterly exhausted by the heat and excitement
of the meeting, and should therefore be glad to be excused from saying a single word; however,
he would utter a few thoughts. The following was the resolution which he had to submit to the
meeting: 'That with a view to the correction of public sentiment on this subject in slaveholding
communities, it is of the first importance that those who are earnest in condemnation of slavery
should observe consistency; and, therefore, that it is their duty to encourage the development
of the natural resources of countries where slavery does not exist, and the soil of which is
adapted to the growth of products--especially of cotton--now partially or chiefly raised by
slave labor; and though the extinction of slavery is less to be expected from a diminished
demand for slave produce than from the moral effects of a steadfast abhorrence of slavery itself,
and from an unwavering and consistent opposition to it, this meeting would earnestly recommend,
that in all cases where it is practicable, a decided preference should be given to the products
of free labor, by all who enter their protest against slavery, so that at least they themselves
may be clear of any participation in the guilt of the system, and be thus morally strengthened
in their condemnation of it.' At the close of the revolutionary war, all the states of America
were slaveholding states. In Massachusetts, some benevolent white man caused a slave to try
an action for wages in a court of justice. He succeeded, and the consequence was, that slavery
fell in Massachusetts. It was then universally acknowledged that slavery was a sin and shame,
and ought to be abolished, and it was expected that it would be soon abolished in every state
of the Union. Mr. Jefferson, Mr. Madison, and Benjamin Franklin would not allow the word 'slave'
to occur in the constitution, and Mr. Edwards, from the pulpit, clearly and broadly denounced
slavery. And when he (Professor Stowe) was a boy, in Massachusetts the negro children were
admitted to the same schools with the whites. Although there was some prejudice of color then,
yet it was not so strong as at present. In 1818, the General Assembly of the Presbyterian church
in the United States passed, resolutions against slavery far stronger than those passed at
the meeting this evening, and every man, north and south, voted for them. What had caused the
change? It was the profitableness of the cotton trade. It was that which had spread the chains
of slavery over the Union, and silenced the church upon the subject. He had been asked, what
right had Great Britain to interfere? Why, Great Britain took four fifths of the cotton of
America, and therefore sustained four fifths of the slavery. That gave them a right to interfere.
[Hear, hear!] He admitted that our participation in the guilt was not direct, but without the
cotton, trade of Great Britain slavery would have been abolished long ago, for the American
manufacturers consumed but one fifth of all the cotton grown in the country. The conscience
of the cotton growers was talked of; but had the cotton consumer no conscience? [Cheers.] It
seemed to him that the British public had more direct access to the consumer than to the grower
of cotton." Professor Stowe then read an extract from a paper published in Charleston, South
Carolina, showing the influence of the American cotton trade on the slavery question. "The
price of cotton regulated the price of slaves, who were now worth an average of two hundred
pounds. A cotton plantation required in some cases two hundred, and in others four hundred
slaves. This would give an idea of the capital needed. With free labor there was none of this
outlay--there was none of those losses by the cholera, and the 'underground railroad,' to which
the slave owners were subjected. [Hear, hear!] The Chinese had come over in large numbers,
and could be hired for small wages, on which they managed to live well in their way. If people
would encourage free-grown cotton, that would be the strongest appeal they could make to the
slaveholder. There were three ways of abolishing slavery. First, by a bloody revolution, which
few would approve. [Hear, hear!] Secondly, by persuading slaveholders of the wrong they commit;
but this would have little effect so long as they bought their cotton. [Hear, hear!] And the
third and most feasible way was, by making slave labor unprofitable, as compared with free
labor. [Hear!] When the Chinese first began to emigrate to California, it was predicted that
slavery would be 'run out' that way. He hoped it might be so. [Cheers.] The reverend gentleman
then reverted to his previous visit to this country, seventeen years ago, and described the
rapid strides which had been made in the work of education--especially the education of the
poor--in the interval. It was most gratifying to him, and more easily seen by him than it would
be by us, with whom the change had been gradual. He had been told in America that the English
abolitionists were prompted by jealousy of America, but he had found that to be false. The
Christian feeling which had dictated efforts on behalf of ragged schools and factory children,
and the welfare of the poor and distressed of every kind, had caused the same Christian hearts
to throb for the American slave. It was that Christian philanthropy which received all men
as brethren--children of the same father, and therefore he had great hopes of success. [Cheers.]"

       *       *       *       *       *

My remarks on the cotton business of Britain were made with entire sincerity, and a single-hearted
desire to promote the antislavery cause. They are sentiments which I had long entertained,
and which I had taken every opportunity to express with the utmost freedom from the time of
my first landing in Liverpool, the great cotton mart of England, and where, if any where, they
might be supposed capable of giving offence; yet no exception was taken to them, so far as
I know, till delivered in Exeter Hall. There they were heard by some with surprise, and by
others with extreme displeasure. I was even called proslavery, and ranked with Mrs. Julia Tyler,
for frankly speaking the truth, under circumstances of great temptation to ignore it.

Still I have the satisfaction of knowing that both my views and my motives were rightly understood
and properly appreciated by large-hearted and clear-headed philanthropists, like the Earl of
Shaftesbury and Joseph Sturge, and very fairly represented and commented upon by such religious
and secular papers as the Christian Times, the British Banner, the London Daily News and Chronicle;
and even the thundering political Times seemed disposed, in a half-sarcastic way, to admit
that I was more than half right.

But it is most satisfactory of all to know that the best of the British abolitionists are now
acting, promptly and efficiently, in accordance with those views, and are determined to develop
the resources of the British empire for the production of cotton by free labor. The thing is
practicable, and not of very difficult accomplishment. It is furthermore absolutely essential
to the success of the antislavery cause; for now the great practical leading argument for slavery
is, Without slavery you can have no cotton, and cotton you must and will have. The latest work
that I have read in defence of slavery (Uncle Tom in Paris, Baltimore, 1854) says, (pp. 56-7,)
"Of the cotton which supplies the wants of the civilized world, the south produces 86 per cent.;
and without slave labor experience has shown that the cotton plant cannot be cultivated."

How the matter is viewed by sagacious and practical minds in Britain, is clear from the following
sentences, taken from the National Era:--

"COTTON is KING.--Charles Dickens, in a late number of his Household Words, after enumerating
the striking facts of cotton, says,--

"'Let any social or physical convulsion visit the United States, and England would feel the
shock from Land's End to John o'Groat's. The lives of nearly two millions of our countrymen
are dependent upon the cotton crops of America; their destiny may be said, without any sort
of hyperbole, to hang upon a thread.

"'Should any dire calamity befall the land of cotton, a thousand of our merchant ships would
rot idly in dock; ten thousand mills must stop their busy looms, and two million mouths would
starve for lack of food to feed them.'

"How many non-slaveholders elsewhere are thus interested in the products of slaves? Is it not
worthy the attention of genuine philanthropists to inquire whether cotton cannot be profitably
cultivated by free labor?"

SOIRÉE AT WILLIS'S ROOMS--MAY 25.

MR. JOSEPH STURGE took the chair, announcing that he did so in the absence of the Earl of Shaftesbury,
who was prevented from attending.

It was announced that letters had been received from the Duke of Newcastle and the Earls of
Carlisle and Shaftesbury, expressing their sympathy with the object of the meeting, and their
regret at being unable to attend.

The Secretary, SAMUEL BOWLEY, Esq., of Gloucester, then read the address, which was as follows:--

"MADAM: It is with feelings of the deepest interest that the committee of the British and Foreign
Antislavery Society, on behalf of themselves and of the society they represent, welcome the
gifted authoress of Uncle Tom's Cabin to the shores of Great Britain.

"As humble laborers in the cause of negro emancipation, we hail, with emotions more easily
imagined than described, the appearance of that remarkable work, which has awakened a world-wide
sympathy on behalf of the suffering negro, and called forth a burst of honest indignation against
the atrocious system of slavery, which, we trust, under the divine blessing, will, at no distant
period, accomplish its entire abolition. We are not insensible to those extraordinary merits
of Uncle Tom's Cabin, as a merely literary production, which have procured for its talented
authoress such universal commendation and enthusiastic applause; but we feel it to be our duty
to refer rather to the Christian principles and earnest piety which pervade its interesting
pages, and to express our warmest desire, we trust we may say heartfelt prayer, that He who
bestowed upon you the power and the grace to write such a work may preserve and bless you amid
all your honours, and enable you, under a grateful and humble sense of his abundant goodness,
to give him all the glory.

"We rejoice to find that the great principles upon which our society is based are so fully
and so cordially recognized by yourself and your beloved husband and brother--First, that personal
slavery, in all its varied forms, is a direct violation of the blessed, precepts of the gospel,
and therefore a sin in the sight of God; and secondly, that every victim of this unjust and
sinful system is entitled to immediate and unconditional freedom. For, however we might acquiesce
in the course of a nation which, under a sense of its participation in the guilt of slavery,
should share the pecuniary loss, if such there were, of its immediate abolition, yet we repudiate
the right to demand compensation for human flesh and blood, as (to employ the emphatic words
of Lord Brougham) we repudiate and abhor 'the wild and guilty fantasy that man can hold property
in man.' And we do not hesitate to express our conviction, strengthened by the experience of
emancipation in our own colonies, that on the mere ground of social or political expediency,
the immediate termination of slavery would be far less dangerous and far less injurious than,
any system of compromise, or any attempt at gradual emancipation.

"Let it be borne in mind, however,--and we record it with peculiar interest on the present
occasion,--that it was the pen of a woman that first publicly enunciated the imperative duty
of immediate emancipation. Amid vituperation and ridicule, and, far worse, the cold rebuke
of Christian friends, Mrs. Elizabeth Heyrick boldly sent forth the thrilling tract which taught
the abolitionists of Great Britain this lesson of justice and truth; and we honor her memory
for her deeds. Again we are indebted to the pen of a woman for pleading yet more powerfully
the cause of justice to the slave; and again we have to admire and honor the Christian heroism
which has enabled you, dear madam, to brave the storm of public opinion, and to bear the frowns
of the church in your own land, while you boldly sent forth your matchless volume to teach
more widely and more attractively the same righteous lesson.

"We desire to feel grateful for the measure of success that has crowned the advocacy of these
sound antislavery principles in our own country; but we cannot but feel, that as regards the
continuance of slavery in America, we have cause for humiliation and shame in the existence
of the melancholy fact that a large proportion of the fruits of the bitter toil and suffering
of the slaves in the western world are used to minister to the comfort and the luxury of our
own population. When this anomaly of a country's putting down slavery by law on the one hand,
and supporting it by its trade and commerce on the other, will be removed, it is not for us
to predict; but we are conscious that our position is such as should at least dissipate every
sentiment of self-complacency, and make us feel, both nationally and individually, how deep
a responsibility still rests upon us to wash our own hands of this iniquity, and to seek by
every legitimate means in our power to rid the world of this fearful institution.

"True Christian philanthropy knows no geographical limits, no distinctions of race or color;
but wherever it sees its fellow-man the victim of suffering and oppression, it seeks to alleviate
his sorrows, or drops a tear of sympathy over the afflictions which it has not the power to
remove. We cannot but believe that these enlarged and generous sympathies will be aroused and
strengthened in the hearts of thousands and tens of thousands of all classes who have wept
over the touching pages of Uncle Tom's Cabin. We have marked the rapid progress of its circulation
from circle to circle, and from country to country, with feelings of thrilling interest; for
we trust, by the divine blessing upon the softening influence and Christian sentiments it breathes,
it will be made the harbinger of a better and brighter day for the happiness and the harmony
of the human family. The facilities for international intercourse which we now possess, while
they rapidly tend to remove those absurd jealousies which have so long existed between the
nations of the earth, are daily increasing the power of public opinion in the world at large,
which is so well described by one of our leading statesmen in these forcible words: 'It is
quite true, it may be said, what are opinions against armies? Opinions, if they are founded
in truth and justice, will in the end prevail against the bayonets of infantry, the fire of
artillery, and the charges of cavalry.' Responding most cordially to these sentiments, we rejoice
with thanksgiving to God that you, whom we now greet and welcome as our dear and honored friend,
have been enabled to exemplify their beauty and their truth; for it is our firm conviction
that the united powers of Europe, with all their military array, could not accomplish what
you have done, through the medium of public opinion, for the overthrow of American slavery.

"The glittering steel of the warrior, though steeped in the tyrant's blood, would be weak when
compared with a woman's pen dipped in the milk of human kindness, and softened by the balm
of Christian love. The words that have drawn a tear from the eye of the noble, and moistened
the dusky cheek of the hardest sons of toil, shall sink into the heart and weaken the grasp
of the slaveholder, and crimson with a blush of shame many an American citizen who has hitherto
defended or countenanced by his silence this bitter reproach on the character and constitution
of his country.

"To the tender mercies of Him who died to save their immortal souls we commend the downcast
slaves for freedom and protection, and, in the heart-cheering belief that you have been raised
up as an honored instrument in God's hand to hasten the glorious work of their emancipation,
we crave that his blessing, as well as the blessing of him that is ready to perish, may abundantly
rest upon you and yours. With sentiments of the highest esteem and respect, dear madam, we
affectionately subscribe ourselves your friends and fellow-laborers."

PROFESSOR STOWE was received with prolonged cheering. He said, "Besides the right which I have,
owing to the relationship subsisting between us, to answer for the lady whom you have so honored,
I may claim a still greater right in my sympathy for her efforts. [Hear!] We are perfectly
agreed in every point with regard to the nature of slavery, and the best means of getting rid
of it. I have been frequently called on to address public meetings since I have been on these
shores, and though under circumstances of great disadvantage, and generally with little time,
if any, for preparation, still the very great kindness which has been manifested to Mrs. Stowe
and to myself, and to our country, afflicted as it is with this great evil, has enabled me
to bear a burden which otherwise I should have found insupportable. But of all the addresses
we have received, kind and considerate as they have all been, I doubt whether one has so completely
expressed the feelings and sympathies of our own hearts as the one we have just heard. It is
precisely the expressions of our own thoughts and feelings on the whole subject of slavery.
As this is probably the last time I shall have an opportunity of addressing an audience in
England, I wish briefly to give you an outline of our views as to the best means of dealing
with that terrible subject of slavery, for in our country it is really terrible in its power
and influence. Were it not that Providence seems to be lifting a light in the distance, I should
be almost in despair. There is now a system of causes at work which Providence designs should
continue to work, until that great curse is removed from the face of the earth. I believe that
in dealing with the subject of slavery, and the best means of removing it, the first thing
is to show the utter wrongfulness of the whole system. The great moral ground is the chief
and primary ground, and the one on which we should always, and under all circumstances, insist.
With regard to the work which has created so much excitement, the great excellence of it morally
is, that it holds up fully and emphatically the extreme wrongfulness of the system, while at
the same time showing an entire Christian and forgiving spirit towards those involved in it;
and it is these two characteristics which, in my opinion, have given it its great power. Till
I read that book, I had never seen any extensive work that satisfied me on those points. It
does show, in the most striking manner, the horrible wrongfulness of the system, and, at the
same time, it displays no bitterness, no unfairness, no unkindness, to those involved in it.
It is that which gives the work the greater power, for where there is unfairness, those assailed
take refuge behind it; while here they have no such refuge. We should always aim, in assailing
the system of slavery, to awaken the consciences of those involved in it; for among slaveholders
there are all kinds of moral development, as among every other class of people in the world.
There are men of tender conscience, as well as men of blunted conscience; men with moral sense,
and men with no moral sense whatever; some who have come into the system involuntarily, born
in it, and others who have come into it voluntarily. There is a moral nature in every man,
more or less developed; and according as it is developed we can, by showing the wrong of a
thing, bring one to abhor it. We have the testimony of Christian clergymen in slave holding
states, that the greater portion of the Christian people there, and even many slaveholders,
believe the system is wrong; and it is only a matter of time, a question of delay, as to when
they shall perform their whole duty, and bring it to an end.[I] One would believe that when
they saw a thing to be wrong, they would at once do right; but prejudice, habit, interest,
education, and a variety of influences check their aspirations to what is right; but let us
keep on pressing it upon their consciences, and I believe their consciences will at length
respond. Public sentiment is more powerful than force, and it may be excited in many ways.
Conversation, the press, the platform, and the pulpit may all be used to awaken the feeling
of the people, and bring it to bear on this question. I refer especially to the pulpit; for,
if the church and the ministry are silent, who is to speak for the dumb and the oppressed?
The thing that has borne on my mind with the most melancholy weight, and caused me most sorrow,
is the apparent apathy, the comparative silence, of the church on this subject for the last
twenty or five and twenty years in the United States. Previous to that period it did speak,
and with words of power; but, unfortunately, it has not followed out those words by acts. The
influence of the system has come upon it, and brought it, for a long time, almost to entire
silence; but I hope we are beginning to speak again. We hear voices here and there which will
excite other voices, and I trust before long they will bring all to speak the same thing on
this subject, so that the conscience of the whole nation may be aroused. There is another method
of dealing with the subject, which is alluded to in the address, and also in the resolution
of the society, at Exeter Hall. It is the third resolution proposed at that meeting, and I
will read it, and make some comments as I proceed. But it can be raised by free labor in the
United States, and indeed it is already raised there by free labor to a considerable extent;
and, provided the plan were more encouraged, it could be raised more abundantly. I know several
instances, in the most slaveholding states, in which slave labor has been displaced, and free
labor substituted in its stead. The weakness of slavery consists in the expense of the slaves,
the great capital to be invested in their purchase before any work can be performed, and the
constant danger of loss by death or escape. When the Chinese emigrants from the eastern portion
of their empire came to the North-western States, their labor was found much cheaper and better
than that of slaves. I therefore hope there may be a direct influence from this source, as
well as the indirect influence contemplated by the resolution. At all events, it is an encouragement
to those who wish the extinction of slavery to keep their eyes open, and assist the process
by all the means in their power. We may, however, be doing what we can--examining the ways
and methods by which this end may be brought about; and, at all events, we need not be deterred
from self-denial, nor shrink before minor obstacles. If with foresight we participate in the
encouragement of slave labor, we must hold ourselves guilty, in no unimportant sense, of sustaining
the system of slavery. I will illustrate my argument by a very simple method. Suppose two ships
arrive laden with silks of the same quality, but one a pirate ship, in which the goods have
been obtained by robbery, and the other by honest trade. The pirate sells his silks twenty
per cent. cheaper than the honest trader: you go to him, and declaim against his dishonesty;
but because you can get silks cheaper of him, you buy of him. Would he think you sincere in
your denunciations of his plundering his fellow-creatures, or would you exert any influence
on him to make him abandon his dishonest practices? I can, however, put another case in which
this inconsistency might, perhaps, be unavoidable. Suppose we were in famine or great necessity,
and we wished to obtain provisions for our suffering families: suppose, too, there was a certain
man with provisions, who, we knew, had come by them dishonestly, but we had no other resource
than to purchase of him. In that case we should be justified in purchasing of him, and should
not participate in the guilt of the robbery. But still, however great our necessity, we are
not justified in refusing to examine the subject, and in discouraging those who are endeavoring
to set the thing on the right ground. That is all I wish, and all the resolution contemplates;
and, happily, I find that that also is what was implied in the address. I may mention one other
method alluded to in the address, and that is prayer to Almighty God. This ought to be, and
must be, a religious enterprise. It is impossible for any man to contemplate slavery as it
is without feeling intense indignation; and unless he have his heart near to God, and unless
he be a man of prayer and devotional spirit, bad passions will arise, and to a very great extent
neutralize his efforts to do good. How do you suppose such a religious feeling has been preserved
in the book to which the address refers? Because it was written amid prayer from the beginning;
and it is only by a constant exercise of the religious spirit that the good it had effected
has been accomplished in the way it has. There is one more subject to which I would allude,
and that is unity among those who desire to emancipate the slave. I mean a good understanding
and unity of feeling among the opponents of slavery. What gives slavery its great strength
in the United States? There are only about three hundred thousand slaveholders in the United
States out of the whole twenty-five millions of its population, and yet they hold the entire
power over the nation. That is owing to their unbroken unity on that one matter, however much,
and however fiercely, they may contend among themselves on others. As soon as the subject of
slavery comes up, they are of one heart, of one voice, and of one mind, while their opponents
unhappily differ, and assail each other when they ought to be assailing the great enemy alone.
Why can they not work together, so far as they are agreed, and let those points on which they
disagree be waived for the time? In the midst of the battle let them sink their differences,
and settle them after the victory is won. I was happy to find at the great meeting of the Peace
Society that that course has been adopted. They are not all of one mind on the details of the
question, but they are of one mind on the great principle of diffusing peace doctrines among
the great nations of Europe. I therefore say, let all the friends of the slave work together
until the great work of his emancipation is accomplished, and then they will have time to discuss
their differences, though I believe by that time they will all think alike. I thank you sincerely
for the kindness you have expressed towards my country, and for the philanthropy you have manifested,
and I hope all has been done in such a Christian spirit that every Christian feeling on the
other side of the Atlantic will be compelled to respond to it."

       *       *       *       *       *

CONCLUDING NOTE.

Since the preceding addresses were delivered, the aspect of things among us has been greatly
changed. It is just as was predicted by the sagacious Lord Cockburn, at the meeting in Edinburgh,
(see page xxvi.) The spirit of slavery, stimulated to madness by the indignation of the civilized
world, in its frenzy bids defiance to God and man, and is determined to make itself respected
by enlisting into its service the entire wealth, and power, and political influence of this
great nation. Its encroachments are becoming so enormous, and its progress so rapid, that it
is now a conflict for the freedom of the citizens rather than for the emancipation of the slaves.
The reckless faithlessness and impudent falsehood of our national proslavery legislation, the
present season, has scarcely a parallel in history, black as history is with all kinds of perfidy.
If the men who mean to be free do not now arise in their strength and shake off the incubus
which is strangling and crushing them, they deserve to be slaves, and they will be.

C.E.S.

SUNNY MEMORIES

OF

FOREIGN LANDS.

LETTER I.

Liverpool, April 11, 1853.

You know how often we have longed for a sea voyage, as the fulfilment of all our dreams of
poetry and romance, the realization of our highest conceptions of free, joyous existence.

You remember our ship-launching parties in Maine, when we used to ride to the seaside through
dark pine forests, lighted up with the gold, scarlet, and orange tints of autumn. What exhilaration
there was, as those beautiful inland bays, one by one, unrolled like silver ribbons before
us! and how all our sympathies went forth with the grand new ship about to be launched! How
graceful and noble a thing she looked, as she sprang from the shore to the blue waters, like
a human soul springing from life into immortality! How all our feelings went with her! how
we longed to be with her, and a part of her--to go with her to India, China, or any where,
so that we might rise and fall on the bosom of that magnificent ocean, and share a part of
that glorified existence! That ocean! that blue, sparkling, heaving, mysterious ocean, with
all the signs and wonders of heaven emblazoned on its bosom, and another world of mystery hidden
beneath its waters! Who would not long to enjoy a freer communion, and rejoice in a prospect
of days spent in unreserved fellowship with its grand and noble nature?

Alas! what a contrast between all this poetry and the real prose fact of going to sea! No man,
the proverb says, is a hero to his valet de chambre. Certainly, no poet, no hero, no inspired
prophet, ever lost so much on near acquaintance as this same mystic, grandiloquent old Ocean.
The one step from the sublime to the ridiculous is never taken with such alacrity as in a sea
voyage.

In the first place, it is a melancholy fact, but not the less true, that ship life is not at
all fragrant; in short, particularly on a steamer, there is a most mournful combination of
grease, steam, onions, and dinners in general, either past, present, or to come, which, floating
invisibly in the atmosphere, strongly predisposes to that disgust of existence, which, in half
an hour after sailing, begins to come upon you; that disgust, that strange, mysterious, ineffable
sensation which steals slowly and inexplicably upon you; which makes every heaving billow,
every white-capped wave, the ship, the people, the sight, taste, sound, and smell of every
thing a matter of inexpressible loathing! Man cannot utter it.

It is really amusing to watch the gradual progress of this epidemic; to see people stepping
on board in the highest possible feather, alert, airy, nimble, parading the deck, chatty and
conversable, on the best possible terms with themselves and mankind generally; the treacherous
ship, meanwhile, undulating and heaving in the most graceful rises and pauses imaginable, like
some voluptuous waltzer; and then to see one after another yielding to the mysterious spell!

Your poet launches forth, "full of sentiment sublime as billows," discoursing magnificently
on the color of the waves and the glory of the clouds; but gradually he grows white about the
mouth, gives sidelong looks towards the stairway; at last, with one desperate plunge, he sets,
to rise no more!

Here sits a stout gentleman, who looks as resolute as an oak log. "These things are much the
effect of imagination," he tells you; "a little self-control and resolution," &c. Ah me! it
is delightful, when these people, who are always talking about resolution, get caught on shipboard.
As the backwoodsman said to the Mississippi River, about the steamboat, they "get their match."
Our stout gentleman sits a quarter of an hour, upright as a palm tree, his back squared against
the rails, pretending to be reading a paper; but a dismal look of disgust is settling down
about his lips; the old sea and his will are evidently having a pitched battle. Ah, ha! there
he goes for the stairway; says he has left a book in the cabin, but shoots by with a most suspicious
velocity. You may fancy his finale.

Then, of course, there are young ladies,--charming creatures,--who, in about ten minutes, are
going to die, and are sure they shall die, and don't care if they do; whom anxious papas, or
brothers, or lovers consign with all speed to those dismal lower regions, where the brisk chambermaid,
who has been expecting them, seems to think their agonies and groans a regular part of the play.

I had come on board thinking, in my simplicity, of a fortnight to be spent something like the
fortnight on a trip to New Orleans, on one of our floating river palaces; that we should sit
in our state rooms, read, sew, sketch, and chat; and accordingly I laid in a magnificent provision
in the way of literature and divers matters of fancy work, with which to while away the time.
Some last, airy touches, in the way of making up bows, disposing ribbons, and binding collarets,
had been left to these long, leisure hours, as matters of amusement.

Let me warn you, if you ever go to sea, you may as well omit all such preparations. If any
thing is in your trunk, it might almost as well be in the sea, for any practical probability
of your getting to it.

Moreover, let your toilet be eminently simple, for you will find the time coming when to button
a cuff or arrange a ruff will be a matter of absolute despair. You lie disconsolate in your
berth, only desiring to be let alone to die; and then, if you are told, as you always are,
that "you mustn't give way," that "you must rouse yourself" and come on deck, you will appreciate
the value of simple attire. With every thing in your berth dizzily swinging backwards and forwards,
your bonnet, your cloak, your tippet, your gloves, all present so many discouraging impossibilities;
knotted strings cannot be untied, and modes of fastening which seemed curious and convenient,
when you had nothing else to do but fasten them, now look disgustingly impracticable. Nevertheless,
your fate for the whole voyage depends upon your rousing yourself to get upon deck at first;
to give up, then, is to be condemned to the Avernus, the Hades of the lower regions, for the
rest of the voyage.

Ah, those lower regions!--the saloons--every couch and corner filled with prostrate, despairing
forms, with pale cheeks, long, willowy hair and sunken eyes, groaning, sighing, and apostrophizing
the Fates, and solemnly vowing between every lurch of the ship, that "you'll never catch them
going to sea again, that's what you won't;" and then the bulletins from all the state rooms--"Mrs.
A. is sick, and Miss B. sicker, and Miss C. almost dead, and Mrs. E., F., and G. declare that
they shall give up." This threat of "giving up" is a standing resort of ladies in distressed
circumstances; it is always very impressively pronounced, as if the result of earnest purpose;
but how it is to be carried out practically, how ladies do give up, and what general impression
is made on creation when they do, has never yet appeared. Certainly the sea seems to care very
little about the threat, for he goes on lurching all hands about just as freely afterwards
as before.

There are always some three or four in a hundred who escape all these evils. They are not sick,
and they seem to be having a good time generally, and always meet you with "What a charming
run we are having! Isn't it delightful?" and so on. If you have a turn for being disinterested,
you can console your miseries by a view of their joyousness. Three or four of our ladies were
of this happy order, and it was really refreshing to see them.

For my part, I was less fortunate. I could not and would not give up and become one of the
ghosts below, and so I managed, by keeping on deck and trying to act as if nothing was the
matter, to lead a very uncertain and precarious existence, though with a most awful undertone
of emotion, which seemed to make quite another thing of creation.

I wonder that people who wanted to break the souls of heroes and martyrs never thought of sending
them to sea and keeping them a little seasick. The dungeons of Olmutz, the leads of Venice,
in short, all the naughty, wicked places that tyrants ever invented for bringing down the spirits
of heroes, are nothing to the berth of a ship. Get Lafayette, Kossuth, or the noblest of woman,
born, prostrate in a swinging, dizzy berth of one of these sea coops, called state rooms, and
I'll warrant almost any compromise might be got out of them.

Where in the world the soul goes to under such influences nobody knows; one would really think
the sea tipped it all out of a man, just as it does the water out of his wash basin. The soul
seems to be like one of the genii enclosed in a vase, in the Arabian Nights; now, it rises
like a pillar of cloud, and floats over land and sea, buoyant, many-hued, and glorious; again,
it goes down, down, subsiding into its copper vase, and the cover is clapped on, and there
you are. A sea voyage is the best device for getting the soul back into its vase that I know of.

But at night!--the beauties of a night on shipboard!--down in your berth, with the sea hissing
and fizzing, gurgling and booming, within an inch of your ear; and then the steward conies
along at twelve o'clock and puts out your light, and there you are! Jonah in the whale was
not darker or more dismal. There, in profound ignorance and blindness, you lie, and feel yourself
rolled upwards, and downwards, and sidewise, and all ways, like a cork in a tub of water; much
such a sensation as one might suppose it to be, were one headed up in a barrel and thrown into
the sea.

Occasionally a wave comes with a thump against your ear, as if a great hammer were knocking
on your barrel, to see that all within was safe and sound. Then you begin to think of krakens,
and sharks, and porpoises, and sea serpents, and all the monstrous, slimy, cold, hobgoblin
brood, who, perhaps, are your next door neighbors; and the old blue-haired Ocean whispers through
the planks, "Here you are; I've got you. Your grand ship is my plaything. I can do what I like
with it."

Then you hear every kind of odd noise in the ship--creaking, straining, crunching, scraping,
pounding, whistling, blowing off steam, each of which to your unpractised ear is significant
of some impending catastrophe; you lie wide awake, listening with all your might, as if your
watching did any good, till at last sleep overcomes you, and the morning light convinces you
that nothing very particular has been the matter, and that all these frightful noises are only
the necessary attendants of what is called a good run.

Our voyage out was called "a good run."

There is no place where killing time is so much of a systematic and avowed object as in one
of these short runs. In a six months' voyage people give up to their situation, and make arrangements
to live a regular life; but the ten days that now divide England and America are not long enough
for any thing. The great question is how to get them off; they are set up, like tenpins, to
be bowled at; and happy he whose ball prospers. People with strong heads, who can stand the
incessant swing of the boat, may read or write. Then there is one's berth, a never-failing
resort, where one may analyze at one's leisure the life and emotions of an oyster in the mud.
Walking the deck is a means of getting off some half hours more. If a ship heaves in sight,
or a porpoise tumbles up, or, better still, a whale spouts, it makes an immense sensation.

Our favorite resort is by the old red smoke pipe of the steamer, which rises warm and luminous
as a sort of tower of defence. The wind must blow an uncommon variety of ways at once when
you cannot find a sheltered side, as well as a place to warm your feet. In fact, the old smoke
pipe is the domestic hearth of the ship; there, with the double convenience of warmth and fresh
air, you can sit by the railing, and, looking down, command the prospect of the cook's offices,
the cow house, pantries, &c.

Our cook has specially interested me--a tall, slender, melancholy man, with a watery-blue eye,
a patient, dejected visage, like an individual weary of the storms and commotions of life,
and thoroughly impressed with the vanity of human wishes. I sit there hour after hour watching
him, and it is evident that he performs all his duties in this frame of sad composure. Now
I see him resignedly stuffing a turkey, anon compounding a sauce, or mournfully making little
ripples in the crust of a tart; but all is done under an evident sense that it is of no use trying.

Many complaints have been made of our coffee since we have been on board, which, to say the
truth, has been as unsettled as most of the social questions of our day, and, perhaps, for
that reason quite as generally unpalatable; but since I have seen our cook, I am quite persuaded
that the coffee, like other works of great artists, has borrowed the hues of its maker's mind.
I think I hear him soliloquize over it--"To what purpose is coffee?--of what avail tea?--thick
or clear?--all is passing away--a little egg, or fish skin, more or less, what are they?" and
so we get melancholy coffee and tea, owing to our philosophic cook.

After dinner I watch him as he washes dishes: he hangs up a whole row of tin; the ship gives
a lurch, and knocks them all down. He looks as if it was just what he expected. "Such is life!"
he says, as he pursues a frisky tin pan in one direction, and arrests the gambols of the ladle
in another; while the wicked sea, meanwhile, with another lurch, is upsetting all his dishwater.
I can see how these daily trials, this performing of most delicate and complicated gastronomic
operations in the midst of such unsteady, unsettled circumstances, have gradually given this
poor soul a despair of living, and brought him into this state of philosophic melancholy. Just
as Xantippe made a sage of Socrates, this whisky, frisky, stormy ship life has made a sage
of our cook. Meanwhile, not to do him injustice, let it be recorded, that in all dishes which
require grave conviction and steady perseverance, rather than hope and inspiration, he is eminently
successful. Our table excels in viands of a reflective and solemn character; mighty rounds
of beef, vast saddles of mutton, and the whole tribe of meats in general, come on in a superior
style. English plum pudding, a weighty and serious performance, is exhibited in first-rate
order. The jellies want lightness,--but that is to be expected.

I admire the thorough order and system with which every thing is done on these ships. One day,
when the servants came round, as they do at a certain time after dinner, and screwed up the
shelf of decanters and bottles out of our reach, a German gentleman remarked, "Ah, that's always
the way on English ships; every thing done at such a time, without saying 'by your leave,'
If it had been on an American ship now, he would have said, 'Gentlemen, are you ready to have
this shelf raised?'"

No doubt this remark is true and extends to a good many other things; but in a ship in the
middle of the ocean, when the least confusion or irregularity in certain cases might be destruction
to all on board, it does inspire confidence to see that there is even in the minutest things
a strong and steady system, that goes on without saying "by your leave." Even the rigidness
with which lights are all extinguished at twelve o'clock, though it is very hard in some cases,
still gives you confidence in the watchfulness and care with which all on board is conducted.

On Sunday there was a service. We went into the cabin, and saw prayer books arranged at regular
intervals, and soon a procession of the sailors neatly dressed filed in and took their places,
together with such passengers as felt disposed, and the order of morning prayer was read. The
sailors all looked serious and attentive. I could not but think that this feature of the management
of her majesty's ships was a good one, and worthy of imitation. To be sure, one can say it
is only a form. Granted; but is not a serious, respectful form of religion better than nothing?
Besides, I am not willing to think that these intelligent-looking sailors could listen to all
those devout sentiments expressed in the prayers, and the holy truths embodied in the passages
of Scripture, and not gain something from it. It is bad to have only the form of religion,
but not so bad as to have neither the form nor the fact.

When the ship has been out about eight days, an evident bettering of spirits and condition
obtains among the passengers. Many of the sick ones take heart, and appear again among the
walks and ways of men; the ladies assemble in little knots, and talk of getting on shore. The
more knowing ones, who have travelled before, embrace this opportunity to show their knowledge
of life by telling the new hands all sorts of hobgoblin stories about the custom house officers
and the difficulties of getting landed in England. It is a curious fact, that old travellers
generally seem to take this particular delight in striking consternation into younger ones.

"You'll have all your daguerreotypes taken away," says one lady, who, in right of having crossed
the ocean nine times, is entitled to speak ex cathedra on the subject.

"All our daguerreotypes!" shriek four or five at once. "Pray tell, what for?"

"They will do it," says the knowing lady, with an awful nod; "unless you hide them, and all
your books, they'll burn up--"

"Burn our books!" exclaim the circle. "O, dreadful! What do they do that for?"

"They're very particular always to burn up all your books. I knew a lady who had a dozen burned,"
says the wise one.

"Dear me! will they take our dresses?" says a young lady, with increasing alarm.

"No, but they'll pull every thing out, and tumble them well over, I can tell you."

"How horrid!"

An old lady, who has been very sick all the way, is revived by this appalling intelligence.

"I hope they won't tumble over my caps!" she exclaims.

"Yes, they will have every thing out on deck," says the lady, delighted with the increasing
sensation. "I tell you you don't know these custom house officers."

"It's too bad!" "It's dreadful!" "How horrid!" exclaim all.

"I shall put my best things in my pocket," exclaims one. "They don't search our pockets, do they?"

"Well, no, not here; but I tell you they'll search your pockets at Antwerp and Brussels," says
the lady.

Somebody catches the sound, and flies off into the state rooms with the intelligence that "the
custom house officers are so dreadful--they rip open your trunks, pull out all your things,
burn your books, take away your daguerreotypes, and even search your pockets;" and a row of
groans is heard ascending from the row of state rooms, as all begin to revolve what they have
in their trunks, and what they are to do in this emergency.

"Pray tell me," said I to a gentlemanly man, who had crossed four or five times, "is there
really so much annoyance at the custom house?"

"Annoyance, ma'am? No, not the slightest."

"But do they really turn out the contents of the trunks, and take away people's daguerreotypes,
and burn their books?"

"Nothing of the kind, ma'am. I apprehend no difficulty. I never had any. There are a few articles
on which duty is charged. I have a case of cigars, for instance; I shall show them to the custom
house officer, and pay the duty. If a person seems disposed to be fair, there is no difficulty.
The examination of ladies' trunks is merely nominal; nothing is deranged."

So it proved.

So ends this letter. You shall hear further how we landed at some future time.

LETTER II.

DEAR FATHER:--

It was on Sunday morning that we first came in sight of land. The day was one of a thousand--clear,
calm, and bright. It is one of those strange, throbbing feelings, that come only once in a
while in life; this waking up to find an ocean crossed and long-lost land restored again in
another hemisphere; something like what we should suppose might be the thrill of awakening
from life to immortality, and all the wonders of the world unknown. That low, green line of
land in the horizon is Ireland; and we, with water smooth as a lake and sails furled, are running
within a mile of the shore. Every body on deck, full of spirits and expectation, busy as can
be looking through spyglasses, and exclaiming at every object on shore,--

"Look! there's Skibareen, where the worst of the famine was," says one.

"Look! that's a ruined Martello tower," says another.

We new voyagers, who had never seen any ruin more imposing than that of a cow house, and, of
course, were ravenous for old towers, were now quite wide awake, but were disappointed to learn
that these were only custom house rendezvous. Here is the county of Cork. Some one calls out,--

"There is O'Connell's house;" and a warm dispute ensues whether a large mansion, with a stone
chapel by it, answers to that name. At all events the region looks desolate enough, and they
say the natives of it are almost savages. A passenger remarks, that "O'Connell never really
did any thing for the Irish, but lived on his capacity for exciting their enthusiasm." Thereupon
another expresses great contempt for the Irish who could be so taken in. Nevertheless, the
capability of a disinterested enthusiasm is, on the whole, a nobler property of a human being
than a shrewd self-interest. I like the Irish all the better for it.

Now we pass Kinsale lighthouse; there is the spot where the Albion was wrecked. It is a bare,
frowning cliff, with walls of rock rising perpendicularly out of the sea. Now, to be sure,
the sea smiles and sparkles around the base of it, as gently as if it never could storm; yet
under other skies, and with a fierce south-east wind, how the waves would pour in here! Woe
then to the distressed and rudderless vessel that drifts towards those fatal rocks! This gives
the outmost and boldest view of the point.

The Albion struck just round the left of the point, where the rock rises perpendicularly out
of the sea. I well remember, when a child, of the newspapers being filled with the dreadful
story of the wreck of the ship Albion--how for hours, rudderless and helpless, they saw themselves
driving with inevitable certainty against these pitiless rocks; and how, in the last struggle,
one human being after another was dashed against them in helpless agony.

What an infinite deal of misery results from man's helplessness and ignorance and nature's
inflexibility in this one matter of crossing the ocean! What agonies of prayer there were during
all the long hours that this ship was driving straight on to these fatal rocks, all to no purpose!
It struck and crushed just the same. Surely, without the revelation of God in Jesus, who could
believe in the divine goodness? I do not wonder the old Greeks so often spoke of their gods
as cruel, and believed the universe was governed by a remorseless and inexorable fate. Who
would come to any other conclusion, except from the pages of the Bible?

But we have sailed far past Kinsale point. Now blue and shadowy loom up the distant form of
the Youghal Mountains, (pronounced Yoole.) The surface of the water is alive with fishing boats,
spreading their white wings and skimming about like so many moth millers.

About nine o'clock we were crossing the sand bar, which lies at the mouth of the Mersey River,
running up towards Liverpool. Our signal pennants are fluttering at the mast head, pilot full
of energy on one wheel house, and a man casting the lead on the other.

"By the mark, five," says the man. The pilot, with all his energy, is telegraphing to the steersman.
This is a very close and complicated piece of navigation, I should think, this running up the
Mersey, for every moment we are passing some kind of a signal token, which warns off from some
shoal. Here is a bell buoy, where the waves keep the bell always tolling; here, a buoyant lighthouse;
and "See there, those shoals, how pokerish they look!" says one of the passengers, pointing
to the foam on our starboard bow. All is bustle, animation, exultation. Now float out the American
stars and stripes on our bow.

Before us lies the great city of Liverpool. No old Cathedral, no castles, a real New Yorkish place.

"There, that's the fort," cries one. Bang, bang, go the two guns from our forward gangway.

"I wonder if they will fire from the fort," says another.

"How green that grass looks!" says a third; "and what pretty cottages!"

"All modern, though," says somebody, in tones of disappointment. Now we are passing the Victoria
Dock. Bang, bang, again. We are in a forest of ships of all nations; their masts bristling
like the tall pines in Maine; their many colored flags streaming like the forest leaves in autumn.

"Hark," says one; "there's, a chime of bells from the city; how sweet! I had quite forgotten
it was Sunday."

Here we cast anchor, and the small steam tender conies puffing alongside. Now for the custom
house officers. State rooms, holds, and cabins must all give up their trunks; a general muster
among the baggage, and passenger after passenger comes forward as their names are called, much
as follows: "Snooks." "Here, sir." "Any thing contraband here, Mr. Snooks? Any cigars, tobacco,
&c.?" "Nothing, sir."

A little unlocking, a little fumbling. "Shut up; all right; ticket here." And a little man
pastes on each article a slip of paper, with the royal arms of England and the magical letters
V.R., to remind all men that they have come into a country where a lady reigns, and of course
must behave themselves as prettily as they can.

"O," says a bystander, "don't you know that

  'The quality of mercy is not strained'?"

And now we are fairly alongside the shore, and we are soon going to set our foot on the land
of Old England.

Say what we will, an American, particularly a New Englander, can never approach the old country
without a kind of thrill and pulsation of kindred. Its history for two centuries was our history.
Its literature, laws, and language are our literature, laws, and language. Spenser, Shakspeare,
Bacon, Milton, were a glorious inheritance, which we share in common. Our very life-blood is
English life-blood. It is Anglo-Saxon vigor that is spreading our country from Atlantic to
Pacific, and leading on a new era in the world's development. America is a tall, sightly young
shoot, that has grown from the old royal oak of England; divided from its parent root, it has
shot up in new, rich soil, and under genial, brilliant skies, and therefore takes on a new
type of growth and foliage, but the sap in it is the same. I therefore took occasion to remark
the very fair, pure complexions, the clear eyes, and the general air of health and vigor, which
seem to characterize our brethren and sisters of the island. There seemed to be no occasion
to ask them, how they did, as they were evidently quite well. Indeed, this air of health is
one of the most striking things when one lands in England.

They were not burly, red-faced, and stout, as I had sometimes conceived of the English people,
but just full enough to suggest the idea of vigor and health. The presence of so many healthy,
rosy people looking at me, all reduced as I was, first by land and then by sea sickness, made
me feel myself more withered and forlorn than ever. But there was an earnestness and a depth
of kind feeling in some of the faces, which I shall long remember. It seemed as if I had not
only touched the English shore, but felt the English heart.

We rode by shining clumps of the Portugal laurel, a beautiful evergreen, much resembling our
mountain rhododendron; then there was the prickly, polished, dark-green holly, which I had
never seen before, but which is, certainly, one of the most perfect of shrubs. The turf was
of that soft, dazzling green, and had that peculiar velvet-like smoothness, which seem characteristic
of England. We stopped at last before the door of a cottage, whose porch was overgrown with
ivy. From that moment I ceased to feel myself a stranger in England. I cannot tell you how
delightful to me, dizzy and weary as I was, was the first sight of the chamber of reception
which had been prepared for us. No item of cozy comfort that one could desire was omitted.
The sofa and easy chair wheeled up before a cheerful coal fire, a bright little teakettle steaming
in front of the grate, a table with a beautiful vase of flowers, books, and writing apparatus,
and kind friends with words full of affectionate cheer,--all these made me feel at home in
a moment.

The hospitality of England has become famous in the world, and, I think, with reason. I doubt
not there is just as much hospitable feeling in other countries; but in England the matter
of coziness and home comfort has been so studied, and matured, and reduced to system, that
they really have it in their power to effect more, towards making their guests comfortable,
than perhaps any other people.

Between all the excitements of landing, and meeting so many new faces, and the remains of the
dizzy motion of the ship, which still haunted me, I found it impossible to close my eyes to
sleep that first night till the dim gray of dawn. I got up as soon as it was light, and looked
out of the window; and as my eyes fell on the luxuriant, ivy-covered porch, the clumps of shining,
dark-green holly bushes, I said to myself, "Ah, really, this is England!"

I never saw any plant that struck me as more beautiful than this holly. It is a dense shrub
growing from six to eight feet high, with a thickly varnished leaf of green. The outline of
the leaf is something like this. I do not believe it can ever come to a state of perfect development
under the fierce alternations of heat and cold which obtain in our New England climate, though
it grows in the Southern States. It is one of the symbolical shrubs of England, probably because
its bright green in winter makes it so splendid a Christmas decoration. A little bird sat twittering
on one of the sprays. He had a bright red breast, and seemed evidently to consider himself
of good blood and family, with the best reason, as I afterwards learned, since he was no other
than the identical robin redbreast renowned in song and story; undoubtedly a lineal descendant
of that very cock robin whose death and burial form so vivid a portion of our childish literature.

I must tell you, then, as one of the first remarks on matters and things here in England, that
"robin redbreast" is not at all the fellow we in America take him to be. The character who
flourishes under that name among us is quite a different bird; he is twice as large, and has
altogether a different air, and as he sits up with military erectness on a rail fence or stump,
shows not even a family likeness to his diminutive English namesake. Well, of course, robin
over here will claim to have the real family estate and title, since he lives in a country
where such matters are understood and looked into. Our robin is probably some fourth cousin,
who, like others, has struck out a new course for himself in America, and thrives upon it.

The English are called cold and stiff in their manners; I had always heard they were so, but
I certainly saw nothing of it here. A circle of family relatives could not have received us
with more warmth and kindness. The remark which I made mentally, as my eye passed around the
circle, was--Why, these people are just like home; they look like us, and the tone of sentiment
and feeling is precisely such as I have been accustomed to; I mean with the exception of the
antislavery question.

That question has, from the very first, been, in England, a deeply religious movement. It was
conceived and carried on by men of devotional habits, in the same spirit in which the work
of foreign missions was undertaken in our own country; by just such earnest, self-denying,
devout men as Samuel J. Mills and Jeremiah Evarts.

It was encountered by the same contempt and opposition, in the outset, from men of merely worldly
habits and principles; and to this day it retains that hold on the devotional mind of the English
nation that the foreign mission cause does in America.

Liverpool was at first to the antislavery cause nearly what New York has been with us. Its
commercial interests were largely implicated in the slave trade, and the virulence of opposition
towards the first movers of the antislavery reform in Liverpool was about as great as it is
now against abolitionists in Charleston.

When Clarkson first came here to prosecute his inquiries into the subject, a mob collected
around him, and endeavored to throw him off the dock into the water; he was rescued by a gentleman,
some of whose descendants I met on this occasion.

The father of our host, Mr. Cropper, was one of the first and most efficient supporters of
the cause in Liverpool; and the whole circle was composed of those who had taken a deep interest
in that struggle. The wife of our host was the daughter of the celebrated Lord Chief Justice
Denman, a man who, for many years, stood unrivalled, at the head of the legal mind in England,
and who, with a generous ardor seldom equalled, devoted all his energies to this sacred cause.

When the publication of Uncle Tom's Cabin turned the attention of the British public to the
existing horrors of slavery in America, some palliations of the system appeared in English
papers. Lord Denman, though then in delicate health and advanced years, wrote a series of letters
upon the subject--an exertion which entirely prostrated his before feeble health. In one of
the addresses made at table, a very feeling allusion was made to Lord Denman's labors, and
also to those of the honored father of the two Messrs. Cropper.

As breakfast parties are things which we do not have in America, perhaps mother would like
to know just how they are managed. The hour is generally somewhere between nine and twelve,
and the whole idea and spirit of the thing is that of an informal and social gathering. Ladies
keep their bonnets on, and are not dressed in full toilet. On this occasion we sat and chatted
together socially till the whole party was assembled in the drawing room, and then breakfast
was announced. Each gentleman had a lady assigned him, and we walked into the dining room,
where stood the tables tastefully adorned with flowers, and spread with an abundant cold collation,
while tea and coffee were passed round by servants. In each plate was a card, containing the
name of the person for whom it was designed. I took my place by the side of the Rev. Dr. McNiel,
one of the most celebrated clergymen of the established church in Liverpool.

The conversation was flowing, free, and friendly. The old reminiscences of the antislavery
conflict in England were touchingly recalled, and the warmest sympathy was expressed for those
in America who are carrying on the same cause.

In one thing I was most agreeably disappointed. I had been told that the Christians of England
were intolerant and unreasonable in their opinions on this subject; that they could not be
made to understand the peculiar difficulties which beset it in America, and that they therefore
made no distinction and no allowance in their censures. All this I found, so far as this circle
were concerned, to be strikingly untrue. They appeared to be peculiarly affectionate in their
feelings as regarded our country; to have the highest appreciation of, and the deepest sympathy
with, our religious community, and to be extremely desirous to assist us in our difficulties.
I also found them remarkably well informed upon the subject. They keep their eyes upon our
papers, our public documents and speeches in Congress, and are as well advised in regard to
the progress of the moral conflict as our Foreign Missionary Society is with the state of affairs
in Hindostan and Burmah.

Several present spoke of the part which England originally had in planting slavery in America,
as placing English Christians under a solemn responsibility to bring every possible moral influence
to bear for its extinction. Nevertheless, they seem to be the farthest possible from an unkind
or denunciatory spirit, even towards those most deeply implicated. The remarks made by Dr.
McNiel to me were a fair sample of the spirit and attitude of all present.

"I have been trying, Mrs. S.," he said, "to bring my mind into the attitude of those Christians
at the south who defend the institution of slavery. There are real Christians there who do
this--are there not?"

I replied, that undoubtedly there were some most amiable and Christian people who defend slavery
on principle, just as there had been some to defend every form of despotism.

"Do give me some idea of the views they take; it is something to me so inconceivable. I am
utterly at a loss how it can be made in any way plausible."

I then stated that the most plausible view, and that which seemed to have the most force with
good men, was one which represented the institution of slavery as a sort of wardship or guardian
relation, by which an inferior race were brought under the watch and care of a superior race
to be instructed in Christianity.

He then inquired if there was any system of religious instruction actually pursued.

In reply to this, I gave him some sketch of the operations for the religious instruction of
the negroes, which had been carried on by the Presbyterian and other denominations. I remarked
that many good people who do not take very extended views, fixing their attention chiefly on
the efforts which they are making for the religious instruction of slaves, are blind to the
sin and injustice of allowing their legal position to remain what it is.

"But how do they shut their eyes to the various cruelties of the system,--the separation of
families--the domestic slave trade?"

I replied, "In part, by not inquiring into them. The best kind of people are, in general, those
who know least of the cruelties of the system; they never witness them. As in the city of London
or Liverpool there may be an amount of crime and suffering which many residents may live years
without seeing or knowing, so it is in the slave states."

Every person present appeared to be in that softened and charitable frame of mind which disposed
them to make every allowance for the situation of Christians so peculiarly tempted, while,
at the same time, there was the most earnest concern, in view of the dishonor brought upon
Christianity by the defence of such a system.

One other thing I noticed, which was an agreeable disappointment to me. I had been told that
there was no social intercourse between the established church and dissenters. In this party,
however, were people of many different denominations. Our host belongs to the established church;
his brother, with whom we are visiting, is a Baptist, and their father was a Friend; and there
appeared to be the utmost social cordiality. Whether I shall find this uniformly the case will
appear in time.

After the breakfast party was over, I found at the door an array of children of the poor, belonging
to a school kept under the superintendence of Mrs. E. Cropper, and called, as is customary
here, a ragged school. The children, however, were any thing but ragged, being tidily dressed,
remarkably clean, with glowing cheeks and bright eyes. I must say, so far as I have seen them,
English children have a much healthier appearance than those of America. By the side of their
bright bloom ours look pale and faded.

Another school of the same kind is kept in this neighborhood, under the auspices of Sir George
Stephen, a conspicuous advocate of the antislavery cause.

I thought the fair patroness of this school seemed not a little delighted with the appearance
of her protégés, as they sung, with great enthusiasm, Jane Taylor's hymn, commencing,--

  "I thank the goodness and the grace
    That on my birth have smiled,
  And made me in these Christian days
    A happy English child."

All the little rogues were quite familiar with Topsy and Eva, and au fait in the fortunes of
Uncle Tom; so that, being introduced as the maternal relative of these characters, I seemed
to find favor in their eyes. And when one of the speakers congratulated them that they were
born in a land where no child could be bought or sold, they responded with enthusiastic cheers--cheers
which made me feel rather sad; but still I could not quarrel with English people for taking
all the pride and all the comfort which this inspiriting truth can convey.

They had a hard enough struggle in rooting up the old weed of slavery, to justify them in rejoicing
in their freedom. Well, the day will come in America, as I trust, when as much can be said for us.

After the children were gone came a succession of calls; some from very aged people, the veterans
of the old antislavery cause. I was astonished and overwhelmed by the fervor of feeling some
of them manifested; there seemed to be something almost prophetic in the enthusiasm with which
they expressed their hope of our final success in America. This excitement, though very pleasant,
was wearisome, and I was glad of an opportunity after dinner to rest myself, by rambling uninterrupted,
with my friends, through the beautiful grounds of the Dingle.

Two nice little boys were my squires on this occasion, one of whom, a sturdy little fellow,
on being asked his name, gave it to me in full as Joseph Babington Macaulay, and I learned
that his mother, by a former marriage, had been the wife of Macaulay's brother. Uncle Tom Macaulay,
I found, was a favorite character with the young people. Master Harry conducted me through
the walks to the conservatories, all brilliant with azaleas and all sorts of flowers, and then
through a long walk on the banks of the Mersey.

Here the wild flowers attracted my attention, as being so different from those of our own country.
Their daisy is not our flower, with its wide, plaited ruff and yellow centre. The English daisy is

  "The wee modest crimson-tipped flower,"

which Burns celebrates. It is what we raise in greenhouses, and call the mountain daisy. Its
effect, growing profusely about fields and grass plats, is very beautiful.

We read much, among the poets, of the primrose,

  "Earliest daughter of the Spring."

This flower is one, also, which we cultivate in gardens to some extent. The outline of it is
as follows: The hue a delicate straw color; it grows in tufts in shady places, and has a pure,
serious look, which reminds one of the line of Shakspeare--

  "Pale primroses, which die unmarried."

It has also the faintest and most ethereal perfume,--a perfume that seems to come and go in
the air like music; and you perceive it at a little distance from a tuft of them, when you
would not if you gathered and smelled them. On the whole, the primrose is a poet's and a painter's
flower. An artist's eye would notice an exquisite harmony between the yellow-green hue of its
leaves and the tint of its blossoms. I do not wonder that it has been so great a favorite among
the poets. It is just such a flower as Mozart and Raphael would have loved.

Then there is the bluebell, a bulb, which also grows in deep shades. It is a little purple
bell, with a narrow green leaf, like a ribbon. We often read in English stories, of the gorse
and furze; these are two names for the same plant, a low bush, with strong, prickly leaves,
growing much like a juniper. The contrast of its very brilliant yellow, pea-shaped blossoms,
with the dark green of its leaves, is very beautiful. It grows here in hedges and on commons,
and is thought rather a plebeian affair. I think it would make quite an addition to our garden
shrubbery. Possibly it might make as much sensation with us as our mullein does in foreign
greenhouses.

After rambling a while, we came to a beautiful summer house, placed in a retired spot, so as
to command a view of the Mersey River. I think they told me that it was Lord Denman's favorite
seat. There we sat down, and in common with the young gentlemen and ladies of the family, had
quite a pleasant talk together. Among other things we talked about the question which is now
agitating the public mind a good deal,--Whether it is expedient to open the Crystal Palace
to the people on Sunday. They said that this course was much urged by some philanthropists,
on the ground that it was the only day when the working classes could find any leisure to visit
it, and that it seemed hard to shut them out entirely from all the opportunities and advantages
which they might thus derive; that to exclude the laborer from recreation on the Sabbath, was
the same as saying that he should never have any recreation. I asked, why the philanthropists
could not urge employers to give their workmen a part of Saturday for this purpose; as it seemed
to me unchristian to drive trade so that the laboring man had no time but Sunday for intellectual
and social recreation. We rather came to the conclusion that this was the right course; whether
the people of England will, is quite another matter.

The grounds of the Dingle embrace three cottages; those of the two Messrs. Cropper, and that
of a son, who is married to a daughter of Dr. Arnold. I rather think this way of relatives
living together is more common here in England than it is in America; and there is more idea
of home permanence connected with the family dwelling-place than with us, where the country
is so wide, and causes of change and removal so frequent. A man builds a house in England with
the expectation of living in it and leaving it to his children; while we shed our houses in
America as easily as a snail does his shell. We live a while in Boston, and then a while in
New York, and then, perhaps, turn up at Cincinnati. Scarcely any body with us is living where
they expect to live and die. The man that dies in the house he was born in is a wonder. There
is something pleasant in the permanence and repose of the English family estate, which we,
in America, know very little of. All which is apropos to our having finished our walk, and
got back to the ivy-covered porch again.

The next day at breakfast, it was arranged that we should take a drive out to Speke Hall, an
old mansion, which is considered a fine specimen of ancient house architecture. So the carriage
was at the door. It was a cool, breezy, April morning, but there was an abundance of wrappers
and carriage blankets provided to keep us comfortable. I must say, by the by, that English
housekeepers are bountiful in their provision for carriage comfort. Every household has a store
of warm, loose over garments, which are offered, if needed, to the guests; and each carriage
is provided with one or two blankets, manufactured and sold expressly for this use, to envelope
one's feet and limbs; besides all which, should the weather be cold, comes out a long stone
reservoir, made flat on both sides, and filled with hot water, for foot stools. This is an
improvement on the primitive simplicity of hot bricks, and even on the tin foot stove, which
has nourished in New England.

Being thus provided with all things necessary for comfort, we rattled merrily away, and I,
remembering that I was in England, kept my eyes wide open to see what I could see. The hedges
of the fields were just budding, and the green showed itself on them, like a thin gauze veil.
These hedges are not all so well kept and trimmed as I expected to find them. Some, it is true,
are cut very carefully; these are generally hedges to ornamental grounds; but many of those
which separate the fields straggle and sprawl, and have some high bushes and some low ones,
and, in short, are no more like a hedge than many rows of bushes that we have at home. But
such as they are, they are the only dividing lines of the fields, and it is certainly a more
picturesque mode of division than our stone or worm fences. Outside of every hedge, towards
the street, there is generally a ditch, and at the bottom of the hedge is the favorite nestling-place
for all sorts of wild flowers. I remember reading in stories about children trying to crawl
through a gap in the hedge to get at flowers, and tumbling into a ditch on the other side,
and I now saw exactly how they could do it.

As we drive we pass by many beautiful establishments, about of the quality of our handsomest
country houses, but whose grounds are kept with a precision and exactness rarely to be seen
among us. We cannot get the gardeners who are qualified to do it; and if we could, the painstaking,
slow way of proceeding, and the habit of creeping thoroughness, which are necessary to accomplish
such results, die out in America. Nevertheless, such grounds are exceedingly beautiful to look
upon, and I was much obliged to the owners of these places for keeping their gates hospitably
open, as seems to be the custom here.

After a drive of seven or eight miles, we alighted in front of Speke Hall. This house is a
specimen of the old fortified houses of England, and was once fitted up with a moat and drawbridge,
all in approved feudal style. It was built somewhere about the year 1500. The sometime moat
was now full of smooth, green grass, and the drawbridge no longer remains.

This was the first really old thing that we had seen since our arrival in England. We came
up first to a low, arched, stone door, and knocked with a great old-fashioned knocker; this
brought no answer but a treble and bass duet from a couple of dogs inside; so we opened the
door, and saw a square court, paved with round stones, and a dark, solitary yew tree in the
centre. Here in England, I think, they have vegetable creations made on purpose to go with
old, dusky buildings; and this yew tree is one of them. It has altogether a most goblin-like,
bewitched air, with its dusky black leaves and ragged branches, throwing themselves straight
out with odd twists and angular lines, and might put one in mind of an old raven with some
of his feathers pulled out, or a black cat with her hair stroked the wrong way, or any other
strange, uncanny thing. Besides this they live almost forever; for when they have grown so
old that any respectable tree ought to be thinking of dying, they only take another twist,
and so live on another hundred years. I saw some in England seven hundred years old, and they
had grown queerer every century. It is a species of evergreen, and its leaf resembles our hemlock,
only it is longer. This sprig gives you some idea of its general form. It is always planted
about churches and graveyards; a kind of dismal emblem of immortality. This sepulchral old
tree and the bass and treble dogs were the only occupants of the court. One of these, a great
surly mastiff, barked out of his kennel on one side, and the other, a little wiry terrier,
out of his on the opposite side, and both strained on their chains, as if they would enjoy
making even more decided demonstrations if they could.

There was an aged, mossy fountain for holy water by the side of the wall, in which some weeds
were growing. A door in the house was soon opened by a decent-looking serving woman, to whom
we communicated our desire to see the hall.

We were shown into a large dining hall with a stone floor, wainscoted with carved oak, almost
as black as ebony. There were some pious sentences and moral reflections inscribed in old English
text, carved over the doors, and like a cornice round the ceiling, which was also of carved
oak. Their general drift was, to say that life is short, and to call for watchfulness and prayer.
The fireplace of the hall yawned like a great cavern, and nothing else, one would think, than
a cart load of western sycamores could have supplied an appropriate fire. A great two-handed
sword of some ancestor hung over the fireplace. On taking it down it reached to C----'s shoulder,
who, you know, is six feet high.

We went into a sort of sitting room, and looked out through a window, latticed with little
diamond panes, upon a garden wildly beautiful. The lattice was all wreathed round with jessamines.
The furniture of this room was modern, and it seemed the more unique from its contrast with
the old architecture.

We went up stairs to see the chambers, and passed through a long, narrow, black oak corridor,
whose slippery boards had the authentic ghostly squeak to them. There was a chamber, hung with
old, faded tapestry of Scripture subjects. In this chamber there was behind the tapestry a
door, which, being opened, displayed a staircase, that led delightfully off to nobody knows
where. The furniture was black oak, carved, in the most elaborate manner, with cherubs' heads
and other good and solemn subjects, calculated to produce a ghostly state of mind. And, to
crown all, we heard that there was a haunted chamber, which was not to be opened, where a white
lady appeared and walked at all approved hours.

Now, only think what a foundation for a story is here. If our Hawthorne could conjure up such
a thing as the Seven Gables in one of our prosaic country towns, what would he have done if
he had lived here? Now he is obliged to get his ghostly images by looking through smoked glass
at our square, cold realities; but one such old place as this is a standing romance. Perhaps
it may add to the effect to say, that the owner of the house is a bachelor, who lives there
very retired, and employs himself much in reading.

The housekeeper, who showed us about, indulged us with a view of the kitchen, whose snowy,
sanded floor and resplendent polished copper and tin, were sights for a housekeeper to take
away in her heart of hearts. The good woman produced her copy of Uncle Tom, and begged the
favor of my autograph, which I gave, thinking it quite a happy thing to be able to do a favor
at so cheap a rate.

After going over the house we wandered through the grounds, which are laid out with the same
picturesque mixture of the past and present. There was a fine grove, under whose shadows we
walked, picking primroses, and otherwise enacting the poetic, till it was time to go. As we
passed out, we were again saluted with a feu de joie by the two fidelities at the door, which
we took in very good part, since it is always respectable to be thorough in whatever you are
set to do.

Coming home we met with an accident to the carriage which obliged us to get out and walk some
distance. I was glad enough of it, because it gave me a better opportunity for seeing the country.
We stopped at a cottage to get some rope, and a young woman came out with that beautiful, clear
complexion which I so much admire here in England; literally her cheeks were like damask roses.

I told Isa I wanted to see as much of the interior of the cottages as I could; and so, as we
were walking onward toward home, we managed to call once or twice, on the excuse of asking
the way and distance. The exterior was very neat, being built of brick or stone, and each had
attached to it a little flower garden. Isa said that the cottagers often offered them a slice
of bread or tumbler of milk.

They have a way here of building the cottages two or three in a block together, which struck
me as different from our New England manner, where, in the country, every house stands detached.

In the evening I went into Liverpool, to attend a party of friends of the antislavery cause.
In the course of the evening, Mr. Stowe was requested to make some remarks. Among other things
he spoke upon the support the free part of the world give to slavery, by the purchase of the
produce of slave labor; and, in particular, on the great quantity of slave-grown cotton purchased
by England; suggesting it as a subject for inquiry, whether this cannot be avoided.

One or two gentlemen, who are largely concerned in the manufacture and importation of cotton,
spoke to him on the subject afterwards, and said it was a thing which ought to be very seriously
considered. It is probable that the cotton trade of Great Britain is the great essential item
which supports slavery, and such considerations ought not, therefore, to be without their results.

While at Mr. C.'s, also, I had once or twice been called out to see servants, who had come
in to visit those of the family. All of them had read Uncle Tom's Cabin, and were full of sympathy.
Generally speaking, the servants seem to me quite a superior class to what are employed in
that capacity with us. They look very intelligent, are dressed with great neatness, and though
their manners are very much more deferential than those of servants in our country, it appears
to be a difference arising quite as much from self-respect and a sense of propriety as from
servility. Every body's manners are more deferential in England than in America.

The next day was appointed to leave Liverpool. It had been arranged that, before leaving, we
should meet the ladies of the Negroes' Friend Society, an association formed at the time of
the original antislavery agitation in England. We went in the carriage with our friends Mr.
and Mrs. E. Cropper. On the way they were conversing upon the labors of Mrs. Chisholm, the
celebrated female philanthropist, whose efforts for the benefit of emigrants are awakening
a very general interest among all classes in England. They said there had been hesitation on
the part of some good people, in regard to coöperating with her, because she is a Roman Catholic.

It was agreed among us, that the great humanities of the present day are a proper ground on
which all sects can unite, and that if any feared the extension of wrong sentiments, they had
only to supply emigrant ships more abundantly with the Bible. Mr. C. said that this is a movement
exciting very extensive interest, and that they hoped Mrs. Chisholm would visit Liverpool before
long.

The meeting was a very interesting one. The style of feeling expressed in all the remarks was
tempered by a deep and earnest remembrance of the share which England originally had in planting
the evil of slavery in the civilized world, and her consequent obligation, as a Christian nation,
now not to cease her efforts until the evil is extirpated, not merely from her own soil, but
from all lands.

The feeling towards America was respectful and friendly, and the utmost sympathy was expressed
with her in the difficulties with which she is environed by this evil. The tone of the meeting
was deeply earnest and religious. They presented us with a sum to be appropriated for the benefit
of the slave, in any way we might think proper.

Now, if all this enthusiasm for freedom and humanity, in the person of the American slave,
is to be set down as good for nothing in England, because there are evils there in society
which require redress, what then shall we say of ourselves? Have we not been enthusiastic for
freedom in the person of the Greek, the Hungarian, and the Pole, while protecting a much worse
despotism than any from which they suffer? Do we not consider it our duty to print and distribute
the Bible in all foreign lands, when there are three millions of people among whom we dare
not distribute it at home, and whom it is a penal offence even to teach to read it? Do we not
send remonstrances to Tuscany, about the Madiai, when women are imprisoned in Virginia for
teaching slaves to read? Is all this hypocritical, insincere, and impertinent in us? Are we
never to send another missionary, or make another appeal for foreign lands, till we have abolished
slavery at home? For my part, I think that imperfect and inconsistent outbursts of generosity
and feeling are a great deal better than none. No nation, no individual is wholly consistent
and Christian; but let us not in ourselves or in other nations repudiate the truest and most
beautiful developments of humanity, because we have not yet attained perfection. All experience
has proved that the sublime spirit of foreign missions always is suggestive of home philanthropies,
and that those whose heart has been enlarged by the love of all mankind are always those who
are most efficient in their own particular sphere.

LETTER III.

GLASGOW, April 16, 1853.

DEAR AUNT E.:--

You shall have my earliest Scotch letter; for I am sure nobody can sympathize in the emotions
of the first approach to Scotland as you can. A country dear to us by the memory of the dead
and of the living; a country whose history and literature, interesting enough of itself, has
become to us still more so, because the reading and learning of it formed part of our communion
for many a social hour, with friends long parted from earth.

The views of Scotland, which lay on my mother's table, even while I was a little child, and
in poring over which I spent so many happy, dreamy hours,--the Scotch ballads, which were the
delight of our evening fireside, and which seemed almost to melt the soul out of me, before
I was old enough to understand their words,--the songs of Burns, which had been a household
treasure among us,--the enchantments of Scott,--all these dimly returned upon me. It was the
result of them all which I felt in nerve and brain.

And, by the by, that puts me in mind of one thing; and that is, how much of our pleasure in
literature results from its reflection on us from, other minds. As we advance in life, the
literature which has charmed us in the circle of our friends becomes endeared to us from the
reflected remembrance of them, of their individualities, their opinions, and their sympathies,
so that our memory of it is a many-colored cord, drawn from many minds.

So in coming near to Scotland, I seemed to feel not only my own individuality, but all that
my friends would have felt, had they been with me. For sometimes we seem to be encompassed,
as by a cloud, with a sense of the sympathy of the absent and the dead. The English cars are
models of comfort and good keeping. There are six seats in a compartment, luxuriously cushioned
and nicely carpeted, and six was exactly the number of our party. Nevertheless, so obstinate
is custom that we averred at first that we preferred our American cars, deficient as they are
in many points of neatness and luxury, because they are so much more social.

"Dear me," said Mr. S., "six Yankees shut up in a car together! Not one Englishman to tell
us any thing about the country! Just like the six old ladies that made their living by taking
tea at each other's houses."

But that is the way here in England: every arrangement in travelling is designed to maintain
that privacy and reserve which is the dearest and most sacred part of an Englishman's nature.
Things are so arranged here that, if a man pleases, he can travel all through England with
his family, and keep the circle an unbroken unit, having just as little communication with
any thing outside of it as in his own house.

From one of these sheltered apartments in a railroad car, he can pass to preëngaged parlors
and chambers in the hotel, with his own separate table, and all his domestic manners and peculiarities
unbroken. In fact, it is a little compact home travelling about.

Now, all this is very charming to people who know already as much about a country as they want
to know; but it follows from it that a stranger might travel all through England, from one
end to the other and not be on conversing terms with a person in it. He may be at the same
hotel, in the same train with people able to give him all imaginable information, yet never
touch them at any practicable point of communion. This is more especially the case if his party,
as ours was, is just large enough to fill the whole apartment.

As to the comforts of the cars, it is to be said, that for the same price you can get far more
comfortable riding in America. Their first class cars are beyond all praise, but also beyond
all price; their second class are comfortless, cushionless, and uninviting. Agreeably with
our theory of democratic equality, we have a general car, not so complete as the one, nor so
bare as the other, where all ride together; and if the traveller in thus riding sees things
that occasionally annoy him, when he remembers that the whole population, from the highest
to the lowest, are accommodated here together, he will certainly see hopeful indications in
the general comfort, order, and respectability which prevail; all which we talked over most
patriotically together, while we were lamenting that there was not a seventh to our party,
to instruct us in the localities.

Every thing upon the railroad proceeds with systematic accuracy. There is no chance for the
most careless person to commit a blunder, or make a mistake. At the proper time the conductor
marches every body into their places and locks them in, gives the word, "All right," and away
we go. Somebody has remarked, very characteristically, that the starting word of the English
is "all right," and that of the Americans "go ahead."

Away we go through Lancashire, wide awake, looking out on all sides for any signs of antiquity.
In being thus whirled through English scenery, I became conscious of a new understanding of
the spirit and phraseology of English poetry. There are many phrases and expressions with which
we have been familiar from childhood, and which, we suppose, in a kind of indefinite way, we
understand, which, after all, when we come on English ground, start into a new significance:
take, for instance, these lines from L'Allegro:--

  "Sometimes walking, not unseen,
  By hedge-row elms on hillocks green.

Now, these hedge-row elms. I had never even asked myself what they were till I saw them; but
you know, as I said in a former letter, the hedges are not all of them carefully cut; in fact
many of them are only irregular rows of bushes, where, although the hawthorn is the staple
element, yet firs, and brambles, and many other interlopers put in their claim, and they all
grow up together in a kind of straggling unity; and in the hedges trees are often set out,
particularly elms, and have a very pleasing effect.

Then, too, the trees have more of that rounding outline which is expressed by the word "bosomed."
But here we are, right under the walls of Lancaster, and Mr. S. wakes me up by quoting, "Old
John o' Gaunt, time-honored Lancaster."

"Time-honored," said I; "it looks as fresh as if it had been built yesterday: you do not mean
to say that is the real old castle?"

"To be sure, it is the very old castle built in the reign of Edward III., by John of Gaunt."

It stands on the summit of a hill, seated regally like a queen upon a throne, and every part
of it looks as fresh, and sharp, and clear, as if it were the work of modern times. It is used
now for a county jail. We have but a moment to stop or admire--the merciless steam car drives
on. We have a little talk about the feudal times, and the old past days; when again the cry
goes up,--

"O, there's something! What's that?"

"O, that is Carlisle."

"Carlisle!" said I; "what, the Carlisle of Scott's ballad?"

"What ballad?"

"Why, don't you remember, in the Lay of the Last Minstrel, the song of Albert Graeme, which
has something about Carlisle's wall in every verse?

  'It was an English, laydie bright
  When sun shines fair on Carlisle wall,
  And she would marry a Scottish knight,
  For love will still be lord of all.'

I used to read this when I was a child, and wonder what 'Carlisle wall' was."

Carlisle is one of the most ancient cities in England, dating quite back to the time of the
Romans. Wonderful! How these Romans left their mark every where!

Carlisle has also its ancient castle, the lofty, massive tower of which forms a striking feature
of the town.

This castle was built by William Rufus. David, King of Scots, and Robert Bruce both tried their
hands upon it, in the good old times, when England and Scotland were a mutual robbery association.
Then the castle of the town was its great feature; castles were every thing in those days.
Now the castle has gone to decay, and stands only for a curiosity, and the cotton factory has
come up in its place. This place is famous for cottons and ginghams, and moreover for a celebrated
biscuit bakery. So goes the world,--the lively vigorous shoots of the present springing out
of the old, mouldering trunk of the past.

Mr. S. was in an ecstasy about an old church, a splendid Gothic, in which Paley preached. He
was archdeacon of Carlisle. We stopped here for a little while to take dinner. In a large,
handsome room tables were set out, and we sat down to a regular meal.

One sees nothing of a town from a railroad station, since it seems to be an invariable rule,
not only here, but all over Europe, to locate them so that you can see nothing from them.

By the by, I forgot to say, among the historical recollections of this place, that it was the
first stopping-place of Queen Mary, after her fatal flight into England. The rooms which she
occupied are still shown in the castle, and there are interesting letters and documents extant
from lords whom Elizabeth sent here to visit her, in which they record her beauty, her heroic
sentiments, and even her dress; so strong was the fascination in which she held all who approached
her. Carlisle is the scene of the denouement of Guy Mannering, and it is from this town that
Lord Carlisle gets his title.

And now we pass Gretna Green, famous in story--that momentous place which marks the commencement
of Scotland. It is a little straggling village, and there is a roadside inn, which has been
the scene of innumerable Gretna Green marriages.

Owing to the fact that the Scottish law of marriage is far more liberal in its construction
than the English, this place has been the refuge of distressed lovers from time immemorial;
and although the practice of escaping here is universally condemned as very naughty and improper,
yet, like every other impropriety, it is kept in countenance by very respectable people. Two
lord chancellors have had the amiable weakness to fall into this snare, and one lord chancellor's
son; so says the guide book, which is our Koran for the time being. It says, moreover, that
it would be easy to add a lengthened list of distingués married at Gretna Green; but these
lord chancellors (Erskine and Eldon) are quoted as being the most melancholy monuments. What
shall meaner mortals do, when law itself, in all her majesty, wig, gown, and all, goes by the
board?

One says, "Do you remember the scene on the sea shore, with which it opens, describing the
rising of the tide?"

And says another, "Don't you remember those lines in the Young Lochinvar song?--

  'Love swells like the Solway, but ebbs like its tide.'"

I wonder how many authors it will take to enchant our country from Maine to New Orleans, as
every foot of ground is enchanted here in Scotland.

"Ah," said another, "how I wish Walter Scott was alive!"

While we were thus at the fusion point of enthusiasm, the cars stopped at Lockerby, where the
real Old Mortality is buried.

"Dear me, what a conflagration!" we all exclaimed. We had not gone very far before we saw another,
and then, on the opposite side of the car, another still.

"Why, it seems to me the country is all on fire."

"I should think," said Mr. S., "if it was in old times, that there had been a raid from the
Highlands, and set all the houses on fire."

"Or they might be beacons," suggested C.

To this some one answered out of the Lay of the Last Minstrel,--

  "Sweet Teviot, by thy silver tide
  The glaring bale-fires blaze no more."

As we drew near to Glasgow these illuminations increased, till the whole air was red with the
glare of them.

"What can they be?"

"Dear me," said Mr. S., in a tone of sudden recollection, "it's the iron works! Don't you know
Glasgow is celebrated for its iron works?"

To be sure the fires of iron founderies are much less picturesque than the old beacons, and
the clink of hammers than the clash of claymores; but the most devout worshipper of the middle
ages would hardly wish to change them.

Dimly, by the flickering light of these furnaces, we see the approach to the old city of Glasgow.
There, we are arrived!

LETTER IV. I say Scotch, for we had many viands peculiarly national. The smoking porridge,
or parritch, of oatmeal, which is the great staple dish throughout Scotland. Then there was
the bannock, a thin, wafer-like cake of the same material. My friend laughingly said when he
passed it, "You are in the 'land o' cakes,' remember." There was also some herring, as nice
a Scottish fish as ever wore scales, besides dainties innumerable which were not national.

By the by, I should say that "baillie" seems to correspond to what we call a member of the
city council. Mr. Paton told us, that they had expected us earlier, and that the day before
quite a party of friends met at his house to see us, among whom was good old Dr. Wardlaw.

If the bloom of English children appeared to me wonderful, I seemed to find the same thing
intensified, if possible, in Scotland. The children are brilliant as pomegranate blossoms,
and their vivid beauty called forth unceasing admiration. Nor is it merely the children of
the rich, or of the higher classes, that are thus gifted. I have seen many a group of ragged
urchins in the streets and closes with all the high coloring of Rubens, and all his fulness
of outline. Why is it that we admire ragged children on canvas so much more than the same in
nature?

All this day is a confused dream to me of a dizzy and overwhelming kind.

To me there is always something interesting and beautiful about a universal popular excitement
of a generous character, let the object of it be what it may. The great desiring heart of man,
surging with one strong, sympathetic swell, even though it be to break on the beach of life
and fall backwards, leaving the sands as barren as before, has yet a meaning and a power in
its restlessness, with which I must deeply sympathize. Nor do I sympathize any the less, when
the individual, who calls forth such an outburst, can be seen by the eye of sober sense to
be altogether inadequate and disproportioned to it.

I do not regard it as any thing against our American nation, that we are capable, to a very
great extent, of these sudden personal enthusiasms, because I think that, with an individual
or a community, the capability of being exalted into a temporary enthusiasm of self-forgetfulness,
so far from being a fault, has in it a quality of something divine.

Of course, about all such things there is a great deal which a cool critic could make ridiculous,
but I hold to my opinion of them nevertheless.

It is in this cathedral that part of the scene of Rob Roy is laid. This was my first experience
in cathedrals. It was a new thing to me altogether, and as I walked along under the old buttresses
and battlements without, and looked into the bewildering labyrinths of architecture within,
I saw that, with silence and solitude to help the impression, the old building might become
a strong part of one's inner life. A grave yard crowded with flat stones lies all around it.
A deep ravine separates it from another cemetery on an opposite eminence, rustling with dark
pines. A little brook murmurs with its slender voice between.

On this opposite eminence the statue of John Knox, grim and strong, stands with its arm uplifted,
as if shaking his fist at the old cathedral which in life he vainly endeavored to battle down.

Knox was very different from Luther, in that he had no conservative element in him, but warred
equally against accessories and essentials.

At the time when the churches of Scotland were being pulled down in a general iconoclastic
crusade, the tradesmen of Glasgow stood for the defence of their cathedral, and forced the
reformers to content themselves with having the idolatrous images of saints pulled down from
their niches and thrown into the brook, while, as Andrew Fairservice hath it, "The auld kirk
stood as crouse as a cat when the fleas are caimed aff her, and a' body was alike pleased."

We went all through the cathedral, which is fitted up as a Protestant place of worship, and
has a simple and massive grandeur about it.

I was disappointed in one thing: the painted glass, if there has ever been any, is almost all
gone, and the glare of light through the immense windows is altogether too great, revealing
many defects and rudenesses in the architecture, which would have quite another appearance
in the colored rays through painted windows--an emblem, perhaps, of the cold, definite, intellectual
rationalism, which has taken the place of the many-colored, gorgeous mysticism of former times.

After having been over the church, we requested, out of respect to Baillie Nicol Jarvie's memory,
to be driven through the Saut Market. I, however, was so thoroughly tired that I cannot remember
any thing about it.

I will say, by the way, that I have found out since, that nothing is so utterly hazardous to
a person's strength as looking at cathedrals. The strain upon the head and eyes in looking
up through these immense arches, and then the sepulchral chill which abides from generation
to generation in them, their great extent, and the variety which tempts you to fatigue which
you are not at all aware of, have overcome, as I was told, many before me.

Mr. S. and C----, however, made amends, by their great activity and zeal, for all that I could
not do, and I was pleased to understand from them, that part of the old Tolbooth, where Rob
Roy and the baillie had their rencontre, was standing safe and sound, with stuff enough in
it for half a dozen more stories, if any body could be found to write them. And Mr. S. insisted
upon it, that I should not omit to notify you of this circumstance.

Dr. Wardlaw is a venerable-looking old man; we both thought we saw a striking resemblance in
him to our friend Dr. Woods, of Andover. He is still quite active in body and mind, and officiates
to his congregation with great acceptance. I fear, however, that he is in ill health, for I
noticed, as we were passing along to church, that he frequently laid his hand upon his heart,
and seemed in pain. He said he hoped he should be able to get through the evening, but that
when he was not well, excitement was apt to bring on a spasm about the heart; but with it all
he seemed so cheerful, lively, and benignant, that I could not but feel my affections drawn
towards him. Mrs. Wardlaw is a gentle, motherly woman, and it was a great comfort to have her
with me on such an occasion.

  "The people's poor ones he shall judge,
    The needy's children save;
  And those shall he in pieces break,
    Who them oppressed have.

  For he the needy shall preserve,
    When he to him doth call;
  The poor, also, and him that hath
    No help of man at all.

  Both from deceit and violence
    Their soul he shall set free;
  And in his sight right precious
    And dear their blood shall be.

  Now blessed be the Lord, our God,
    The God of Israel,
  For he alone doth wondrous works,
    In glory that excel.

  And blessed be his glorious name
    To all eternity;
  The whole earth let his glory fill:
    Amen; so let it be."

When I heard the united sound of all the voices, giving force to these simple and pathetic
words, I thought I could see something of the reason why that rude old translation still holds
its place in Scotland.

The addresses were, many of them, very beautiful; the more so for the earnest and religious
feeling which they manifested. That of Dr. Wardlaw, in particular, was full of comfort and
encouragement, and breathed a most candid and catholic spirit. Could our friends in America
see with what earnest warmth the religious heart of Scotland beats towards them, they would
be willing to suffer a word of admonition from those to whom love gives a right to speak. As
Christians, all have a common interest in what honors or dishonors Christianity, and an ocean
between us does not make us less one church.

Most of the speeches you will see recorded in the papers. In the course of the evening there
was a second service of grapes, oranges, and other fruits, served round in the same quiet manner
as the tea. On account of the feeble state of my health, they kindly excused me before the
exercises of the evening were over.

The next morning, at ten o'clock, we rode with a party of friends to see some of the notabilia.
First, to Bothwell Castle, of old the residence of the Black Douglas. The name had for me the
quality of enchantment. I cannot understand nor explain the nature of that sad yearning and
longing with which one visits the mouldering remains of a state of society which one's reason
wholly disapproves, and which one's calm sense of right would think it the greatest misfortune
to have recalled; yet when the carriage turned under the shadow of beautiful ancient oaks,
and Mr. S. said, "There, we are in the grounds of the old Black Douglas family!" I felt every
nerve shiver. I remembered the dim melodies of the Lady of the Lake. Bothwell's lord was the
lord of this castle, whose beautiful ruins here adorn the banks of the Clyde.

Whatever else we have or may have in America, we shall never have the wild, poetic beauty of
these ruins. The present noble possessors are fully aware of their worth as objects of taste,
and, therefore, with the greatest care are they preserved. Winding walks are cut through the
grounds with much ingenuity, and seats or arbors are placed at every desirable and picturesque
point of view.

To the thorough-paced tourist, who wants to do the proprieties in the shortest possible time,
this arrangement is undoubtedly particularly satisfactory; but to the idealist, who would like
to roam, and dream, and feel, and to come unexpectedly on the choicest points of view, it is
rather a damper to have all his raptures prearranged and foreordained for him, set down in
the guide book and proclaimed by the guide, even though it should be done with the most artistic
accuracy.

Nevertheless, when we came to the arbor which commanded the finest view of the old castle,
and saw its gray, ivy-clad walls, standing forth on a beautiful point, round which swept the
brown, dimpling waves of the Clyde, the indescribable sweetness, sadness, wildness of the whole
scene would make its voice heard in our hearts. "Thy servants take pleasure in her dust, and
favor the stones thereof," said an old Hebrew poet, who must have felt the inexpressibly sad
beauty of a ruin. All the splendid phantasmagoria of chivalry and feudalism, knights, ladies,
banners, glittering arms, sweep before us; the cry of the battle, the noise of the captains,
and the shouting; and then in contrast this deep stillness, that green, clinging ivy, the gentle,
rippling river, those weeping birches, dipping in its soft waters--all these, in their quiet
loveliness, speak of something more imperishable than brute force.

The ivy on the walls now displays a trunk in some places as large as a man's body. In the days
of old Archibald the Grim, I suppose that ivy was a little, weak twig, which, if he ever noticed,
he must have thought the feeblest and slightest of all things; yet Archibald has gone back
to dust, and the ivy is still growing on. Such force is there in gentle things.

I have often been dissatisfied with the admiration, which a poetic education has woven into
my nature, for chivalry and feudalism; but, on a closer examination, I am convinced that there
is a real and proper foundation for it, and that, rightly understood, this poetic admiration
is not inconsistent with the spirit of Christ.

For, let us consider what it is we admire in these Douglases, for instance, who, as represented
by Scott, are perhaps as good exponents of the idea as any. Was it their hardness, their cruelty,
their hastiness to take offence, their fondness for blood and murder? All these, by and of
themselves, are simply disgusting. What, then, do we admire? Their courage, their fortitude,
their scorn of lying and dissimulation, their high sense of personal honor, which led them
to feel themselves the protectors of the weak, and to disdain to take advantage of unequal
odds against an enemy. If we read the book of Isaiah, we shall see that some of the most striking
representations of God appeal to the very same principles of our nature.

The fact is, there can be no reliable character which has not its basis in these strong qualities.
The beautiful must ever rest in the arms of the sublime. The gentle needs the strong to sustain
it, as much as the rock flowers need rocks to grow on, or yonder ivy the rugged wall which
it embraces. When we are admiring these things, therefore, we are only admiring some sparkles
and glimmers of that which is divine, and so coming nearer to Him in whom all fulness dwells.

After admiring at a distance, we strolled through the ruins themselves. Do you remember, in
the Lady of the Lake, where the exiled Douglas, recalling to his daughter the images of his
former splendor, says,--

  "When Blantyre hymned, her holiest lays,
  And Bothwell's walls flung back the praise"?

These lines came forcibly to my mind, when I saw the mouldering ruins of Blantyre priory rising
exactly opposite to the castle, on the other side of the Clyde.

The banks of the River Clyde, where we walked, were thick set with Portuguese laurel, which
I have before mentioned as similar to our rhododendron. I here noticed a fact with regard to
the ivy which had often puzzled me; and that is, the different shapes of its leaves in the
different stages of its growth. The young ivy has this leaf; but when it has become more than
a century old every trace and indentation melts away, and it assumes this form, which I found
afterwards to be the invariable shape of all the oldest ivy, in all the ruins of Europe which
I explored.

This ivy, like the spider, takes hold with her hands in kings' palaces, as every twig is furnished
with innumerable little clinging fingers, by which it draws itself close, as it were, to the
very heart of the old rough stone.

Its clinging and beautiful tenacity has given rise to an abundance of conceits about fidelity,
friendship, and woman's love, which have become commonplace simply from their appropriateness.
It might, also, symbolize that higher love, unconquerable and unconquered, which has embraced
this ruined world from age to age, silently spreading its green over the rents and fissures
of our fallen nature, giving "beauty for ashes, and garments of praise for the spirit of heaviness."

There is a modern mansion, where the present proprietor of the estate lives. It was with an
emotion partaking of the sorrowful, that we heard that the Douglas line, as such, was extinct,
and that the estate had passed to distant connections. I was told that the present Lord Douglas
is a peaceful clergyman, quite a different character from old Archibald the Grim.

The present residence is a plain mansion, standing on a beautiful lawn, near the old castle.
The head gardener of the estate and many of the servants came out to meet us, with faces full
of interest. The gardener walked about to show us the localities, and had a great deal of the
quiet intelligence and self-respect which, I think, is characteristic of the laboring classes
here. I noticed that on the green sweep of the lawn, he had set out here and there a good many
daisies, as embellishments to the grass, and these in many places were defended by sticks bent
over them, and that, in one place, a bank overhanging the stream was radiant with yellow daffodils,
which appeared to have come up and blossomed there accidentally. I know not whether these were
planted there, or came up of themselves.

We next went to the famous Bothwell bridge, which Scott has immortalized in Old Mortality.
We walked up and down, trying to recall the scenes of the battle, as there described, and were
rather mortified, after we had all our associations comfortably located upon it, to be told
that it was not the same bridge--it had been newly built, widened, and otherwise made more
comfortable and convenient.

Of course, this was evidently for the benefit of society, but it was certainly one of those
cases where the poetical suffers for the practical. I comforted myself in my despondency, by
looking over at the old stone piers underneath, which were indisputably the same. We drove
now through beautiful grounds, and alighted at an elegant mansion, which in former days belonged
to Lockhart, the son-in-law of Scott. It was in this house that Old Mortality was written.

As I was weary, the party left me here, while they went on to see the Duke of Hamilton's grounds.
Our kind hostess showed me into a small study, where she said Old Mortality was written. The
window commanded a beautiful view of many of the localities described. Scott was as particular
to consult for accuracy in his local descriptions as if he had been writing a guide book.

He was in the habit of noting down in his memorandum book even names and characteristics of
the wild flowers and grasses that grew about a place. When a friend once remarked to him, that
he should have supposed his imagination could have supplied such trifles, he made an answer
that is worth remembering by every artist--that no imagination could long support its freshness,
that was not nourished by a constant and minute observation of nature.

Craignethan Castle, which is the original of Tillietudlem, we were informed, was not far from
thence. It is stated in Lockhart's Life of Scott, that the ruins of this castle excited in
Scott such delight and enthusiasm, that its owner urged him to accept for his lifetime the
use of a small habitable house, enclosed within the circuit of the walls.

After the return of the party from Hamilton Park, we sat down to an elegant lunch, where my
eye was attracted more than any thing else, by the splendor of the hothouse flowers which adorned
the table. So far as I have observed, the culture of flowers, both in England and Scotland,
is more universally an object of attention than with us. Every family in easy circumstances
seems, as a matter of course, to have their greenhouse, and the flowers are brought to a degree
of perfection which I have never seen at home.

I may as well say here, that we were told by a gentleman, whose name I do not now remember,
that this whole district had been celebrated for its orchards; he added, however, that since
the introduction of the American apple into the market, its superior excellence had made many
of these orchards almost entirely worthless. It is a curious fact, showing how the new world
is working on the old.

After taking leave of our hospitable friends, we took to our carriages again. As we were driving
slowly through the beautiful grounds, admiring, as we never failed to do, their perfect cultivation,
a party of servants appeared in sight, waving their hats and handkerchiefs, and cheering us
as we passed. These kindly expressions from them were as pleasant as any we received.

In the evening we had engaged to attend another soirée, gotten up by the working classes, to
give admission to many who were not in circumstances to purchase tickets for the other. This
was to me, if any thing, a more interesting réunion, because this was just the class whom I
wished to meet. The arrangements of the entertainment were like those of the evening before.

As I sat in the front gallery and looked over the audience with an intense interest, I thought
they appeared on the whole very much like what I might have seen at home in a similar gathering.
Men, women, and children were dressed in a style which showed both self-respect and good taste,
and the speeches were far above mediocrity. One pale young man, a watchmaker, as I was told
afterwards, delivered an address, which, though doubtless it had the promising fault of too
much elaboration and ornament, yet I thought had passages which would do honor to any literary
periodical whatever.

There were other orators less highly finished, who yet spoke "right on," in a strong, forcible,
and really eloquent way, giving the grain of the wood without the varnish. They contended very
seriously and sensibly, that although the working men of England and Scotland had many things
to complain of, and many things to be reformed, yet their condition was world-wide different
from that of the slave.

One cannot read the history of the working classes in England, for the last fifty years, without
feeling sensibly the difference between oppressions under a free government and slavery. So
long as the working class of England produces orators and writers, such as it undoubtedly has
produced; so long as it has in it that spirit of independence and resistance of wrong, which
has shown itself more and more during the agitations of the last fifty years; and so as long
as the law allows them to meet and debate, to form associations and committees, to send up
remonstrances and petitions to government,--one can see that their case is essentially different
from that of plantation slaves.

I must say, I was struck this night with the resemblance between the Scotchman and the New
Englander. One sees the distinctive nationality of a country more in the middle and laboring
classes than in the higher, and accordingly at this meeting there was more nationality, I thought,
than at the other.

The highest class of mind in all countries loses nationality, and becomes universal; it is
a great pity, too, because nationality is picturesque always. One of the greatest miracles
to my mind about Kossuth was, that with so universal an education, and such an extensive range
of language and thought, he was yet so distinctively a Magyar.

One thing has surprised and rather disappointed us. Our enthusiasm for Walter Scott does not
apparently meet a response in the popular breast. Allusions to Bannockburn and Drumclog bring
down the house, but enthusiasm for Scott was met with comparative silence. We discussed this
matter among ourselves, and rather wondered at it.

The fact is, Scott belonged to a past, and not to the coming age. He beautified and adorned
that which is waxing old and passing away. He loved and worshipped in his very soul institutions
which the majority of the common people have felt as a restraint and a burden. One might naturally
get a very different idea of a feudal castle by starving to death in the dungeon of it, than
by writing sonnets on it at a picturesque distance. Now, we in America are so far removed from
feudalism,--it has been a thing so much of mere song and story with us, and our sympathies
are so unchecked by any experience of inconvenience or injustice in its consequences,--that
we are at full liberty to appreciate the picturesque of it, and sometimes, when we stand overlooking
our own beautiful scenery, to wish that we could see,

  "On yon bold brow, a lordly tower;
  In that soft vale, a lady's bower;
  In yonder meadow, far away,
  The turrets of a cloister gray;"

when those who know by experience all the accompaniments of these ornaments, would have quite
another impression.

Nevertheless, since there are two worlds in man, the real and the ideal, and both have indisputably
a right to be, since God made the faculties of both, we must feel that it is a benefaction
to mankind, that Scott was thus raised up as the link, in the ideal world, between the present
and the past. It is a loss to universal humanity to have the imprint of any phase of human
life and experience entirely blotted out. Scott's fictions are like this beautiful ivy, with
which all the ruins here are overgrown,--they not only adorn, but, in many cases, they actually
hold together, and prevent the crumbling mass from falling into ruins.

To-morrow we are going to have a sail on the Clyde.

LETTER V.

April 17.

MY DEAR SISTER:--

To-day a large party of us started on a small steamer, to go down the Clyde. It has been a
very, very exciting day to us. It is so stimulating to be where every name is a poem. For instance,
we start at the Broomielaw. This Broomielaw is a kind of wharf, or landing. Perhaps in old
times it was a haugh overgrown with broom, from whence it gets its name; this is only my conjecture,
however.

We have a small steamer quite crowded with people, our excursion party being very numerous.
In a few minutes after starting, somebody says,--

"O, here's where the Kelvin enters." This starts up,--

  "Let us haste to Kelvin Grove."

Then soon we are coming to Dumbarton Castle, and all the tears we shed over Miss Porter's William
Wallace seem to rise up like a many-colored mist about it. The highest peak of the rock is
still called Wallace's Seat, and a part of the castle, Wallace's Tower; and in one of its apartments
a huge two-handed sword of the hero is still shown. I suppose, in fact, Miss Porter's sentimental
hero is about as much like the real William Wallace as Daniel Boone is like Sir Charles Grandison.
Many a young lady, who has cried herself sick over Wallace in the novel, would have been in
perfect horror if she could have seen the real man. Still Dumbarton Castle is not a whit the
less picturesque for that. Now comes the Leven,--that identical Leven Water known in song,--and
on the right is Leven Grove.

"There," said somebody to me, "is the old mansion of the Earls of Glencairn." Quick as thought,
flashed through my mind that most eloquent of Burns's poems, the Lament for James, Earl of
Glencairn.

  "The bridegroom may forget the bride
  Was made his wedded wife yestreen;
  The monarch may forget the crown
  That on his head an hour hath been;
  The mother may forget the child
  That smiles sae sweetly on her knee;
  But I'll remember thee, Glencairn,
  And a' that thou hast done for me."

This mansion is now the seat of Graham of Gartmor.

"Peninsula!" said C----. "Why, Walter Scott said it was an island."

Certainly, he did declare most explicitly in the person of Mr. Archibald, the Duke of Argyle's
serving man, to Miss Dollie Dutton, when she insisted on going to it by land, that Roseneath
was an island. It shows that the most accurate may be caught tripping sometimes.

Of course, our heads were full of David Deans, Jeanie, and Effie, but we saw nothing of them.
The Duke of Argyle's Italian mansion is the most conspicuous object.

Hereupon there was considerable discussion on the present Duke of Argyle among the company,
from which we gathered that he stood high in favor with the popular mind. One said that there
had been an old prophecy, probably uttered somewhere up in the Highlands, where such things
are indigenous, that a very good duke of Argyle was to arise having red hair, and that the
present duke had verified the prediction by uniting both requisites. They say that he is quite
a young man, with a small, slight figure, but with a great deal of energy and acuteness of
mind, and with the generous and noble traits which have distinguished his house in former times.
He was a pupil of Dr. Arnold, a member of the National Scotch Kirk, and generally understood
to be a serious and religious man. He is one of the noblemen who have been willing to come
forward and make use of his education and talent in the way of popular lectures at lyceums
and athenæums; as have also the Duke of Newcastle, the Earl of Carlisle, and some others. So
the world goes on. I must think, with all deference to poetry, that it is much better to deliver
a lyceum lecture than to head a clan in battle; though I suppose, a century and a half ago,
had the thing been predicted to McCallummore's old harper, he would have been greatly at a
loss to comprehend the nature of the transaction.

Roseneath occupies the ground between the Gare Loch and Loch Long. The Gare Loch is the name
given to a bay formed by the River Clyde, here stretching itself out like a lake. Here we landed
and went on shore, passing along the sides of the loch, in the little village of Row.

As we were walking along a carriage came up after us, in which were two ladies. A bunch of
primroses, thrown from this carriage, fell at my feet. I picked it up, and then the carriage
stopped, and the ladies requested to know if I was Mrs. Stowe. On answering in the affirmative,
they urged me so earnestly to come under their roof and take some refreshment, that I began
to remember, what I had partly lost sight of, that I was very tired; so, while the rest of
the party walked on to get a distant view of Ben Lomond, Mr. S. and I suffered ourselves to
be taken into the carriage of our unknown friends, and carried up to a charming little Italian
villa, which stood, surrounded by flower gardens and pleasure grounds, at the head of the loch.
We were ushered into a most comfortable parlor, where a long window, made of one clear unbroken
sheet of plate glass, gave a perfect view of the loch with all its woody shores, with Roseneath
Castle in the distance. My good hostesses literally overwhelmed me with kindness; but as there
was nothing I really needed so much as a little quiet rest, they took me to a cozy bedroom,
of which they gave me the freedom, for the present. Does not every traveller know what a luxury
it is to shut one's eyes sometimes? The chamber, which is called "Peace," is now, as it was
in Christian's days, one of the best things that Charity or Piety could offer to the pilgrim.
Here I got a little brush from the wings of dewy-feathered sleep.

After a while our party came back, and we had to be moving. My kind friends expressed so much
joy at having met me, that it was really almost embarrassing. They told me that they, being
confined to the house by ill health, and one of them by lameness, had had no hope of ever seeing
me, and that this meeting seemed a wonderful gift of Providence. They bade me take courage
and hope, for they felt assured that the Lord would yet entirely make an end of slavery through
the world. I regretted it, because, being Sunday, I would like to have heard some of the preachers
of Glasgow. I was, however, glad of one quiet day to recall my thoughts, for I had been whirling
so rapidly from scene to scene, that I needed time to consider where I was; especially as we
were to go to Edinburgh on the morrow.

Towards sunset Mr. S. and I strolled out entirely alone to breathe a little fresh air. We walked
along the banks of the Kelvin, quite down to its junction with the Clyde. The Kelvin Grove
of the ballad is all cut away, and the Kelvin flows soberly between stone walls, with a footpath
on each side, like a stream that has learned to behave itself.

"There," said Mr. S., as we stood on the banks of the Clyde, now lying flushed and tranquil
in the light of the setting sun, "over there is Ayrshire."

"Ayrshire!" I said; "what, where Burns lived?"

"Yes, there is his cottage, far down to the south, and out of sight, of course; and there are
the bonny banks of Ayr."

It seemed as if the evening air brought a kind of sigh with it. Poor Burns! how inseparably
he has woven himself with the warp and woof of every Scottish association!

We saw a great many children of the poor out playing--rosy, fine little urchins, worth, any
one of them, a dozen bleached, hothouse flowers. We stopped to hear them talk, and it was amusing
to hear the Scotch of Walter Scott and Burns shouted out with such a right good will. We were
as much struck by it as an honest Yankee was in Paris by the proficiency of the children in
speaking French.

There, sure enough, before our eyes, on a gentle eminence stood the mouldering ruins of which
Scott has sung:--

  "Of all the palaces so fair,
    Built for the royal dwelling,
  In Scotland, far beyond compare
    Linlithgow is excelling;
  And in its park in genial June,
  How sweet the merry linnet's tune,
    How blithe the blackbird's lay!
  The wild buck's bells from thorny brake.
  The coot dives merry on the lake,--
  The saddest heart might pleasure take,
    To see a scene so gay."

Here was born that woman whose beauty and whose name are set in the strong, rough Scotch heart,
as a diamond in granite. Poor Mary! When her father, who lay on his death bed at that time
in Falkland, was told of her birth, he answered, "Is it so? Then God's will be done! It [the
kingdom] came with a lass, and it will go with a lass!" With these words he turned his face
to the wall, and died of a broken heart. Certainly, some people appear to be born under an
evil destiny.

Here, too, in Linlithgow church, tradition says that James IV. was warned, by a strange apparition,
against that expedition to England which cost him his life. Scott has worked this incident
up into a beautiful description, in the fourth canto of Marmion.

The castle has a very sad and romantic appearance, standing there all alone as it does, looking
down into the quiet lake. It is said that the internal architectural decorations are exceedingly
rich and beautiful, and a resemblance has been traced between its style of ornament and that
of Heidelberg Castle, which has been accounted for by the fact that the Princess Elizabeth,
who was the sovereign lady of Heidelberg, spent many of the earlier years of her life in this
place.

Not far from here we caught a glimpse of the ruins of Niddrie Castle, where Mary spent the
first night after her escape from Lochleven.

The Avon here at Linlithgow is spanned by a viaduct, which is a fine work of art. It has twenty-five
arches, which are from seventy to eighty feet high and fifty wide.

As the cars neared Edinburgh we all exclaimed at its beauty, so worthily commemorated by Scott:--

  "Such dusky grandeur clothes the height,
  Where the huge castle holds its state,
    And all the steeps slope down,
  Whose ridgy back heaves to the sky,
  Piled deep and massy, close and high,
    Mine own romantic town!"

Edinburgh has had an effect on the literary history of the world for the last fifty years,
that cannot be forgotten by any one approaching her. The air seemed to be full of spirits of
those who, no longer living, have woven a part of the thread of our existence. I do not know
that the shortness of human life ever so oppressed me as it did on coming near to the city.

LETTER VI.

MY DEAR SISTER:--

You may spare your anxieties about me, for I do assure you, that if I were an old Sevres China
jar, I could not have more careful handling than I do. Every body is considerate; a great deal
to say, when there appears to be so much excitement. One agreeable feature of the matter is,
it gave me an opportunity to make the acquaintance of the celebrated homoeopathic physician,
Dr. Henderson, in whose experiments and experience I had taken some interest while in America.

Of the multitudes who have called, I have seen scarcely any.

Mrs. W., with whom I am staying, is a most thoughtful nurse. They are Friends, and nothing
can be more a pattern of rational home enjoyment, without ostentation and without parade, than
a Quaker family.

Though they reject every thing in arrangement which savors of ostentation and worldly show,
yet their homes are exquisite in point of comfort. They make great use of flowers and natural
specimens in adorning their apartments, and also indulge to a chaste and moderate extent in
engravings and works of art. So far as I have observed, they are all "tee-totalers;" giving,
in this respect, the whole benefit of their example to the temperance cause. Letters also from
Mr. Binney and Mr. Sherman, two of the leading Congregational clergymen of London. The latter
officiates at Surrey Chapel, which was established by Rowland Hill. Both contain invitations
to us to visit them in London.

As to these letters, many of them are mere outbursts of feeling; yet they are interesting as
showing the state of the public mind. Many of them are on kindred topics of moral reform, in
which they seem to have an intuitive sense that we should be interested. I am not, of course,
able to answer them all, but C---- does, and it takes a good part of every day. One was from
a shoemaker's wife in one of the islands, with a copy of very fair verses. Many have come accompanying
little keepsakes and gifts. It seems to me rather touching and sad, that people should want
to give me things, when I am not able to give an interview, or even a note, in return. C----
wrote from six to twelve o'clock, steadily, answering letters.

April 26. Last night came off the soirée. The getting in to the hall is quite an affair, I
assure you, the doorway is blocked up by such a dense crowd; yet there is something very touching
about these crowds. They open very gently and quietly, and they do not look at you with a rude
stare, but with faces full of feeling and intelligence. I have seen some looks that were really
beautiful; they go to my heart. The common people appear as if they knew that our hearts were
with them. How else should it be, as Christians of America?--a country which, but for one fault,
all the world has reason to love.

We were arranged at this meeting much as in Glasgow. The lord provost presided; and in the
gallery with us were distinguished men from the magistracy, the university, and the ministry,
with their wives, besides the members of the antislavery societies. The lord provost, I am
told, has been particularly efficient in all benevolent operations, especially those for the
education of the poorer classes. He is also a zealous supporter of the temperance cause.

Among the speakers, I was especially interested in Dr. Guthrie, who seems to be also a particular
favorite of the public. He is a tall, thin man, with a kind of quaintness in his mode of expressing
himself, which sometimes gives an air of drollery to his speaking. He is a minister of the
Free Church, and has more particularly distinguished himself by his exertions in behalf of
the poorer classes.

One passage in his speech I will quote, for I was quite amused with it. It was in allusion
to the retorts which had been made in Mrs. Tyler's letter to the ladies of England, on the
defects in the old country.

"I do not deny," he said, "that there are defects in our country. What I say of them is this--that
they are incidental very much to an old country like our own. Dr. Simpson knows very well,
and so does every medical man, that when a man gets old he gets very infirm, his blood vessels
get ossified, and so on; but I shall not enter into that part of the subject. What is true
of an old country is true of old men, and old women, too. I am very much disposed to say of
this young nation of America, that their teasing us with our defects might just get the answer
which a worthy member of the church of Scotland gave to his son, who was so dissatisfied with
the defects in the church, that he was determined to go over to a younger communion. 'Ah, Sandy,
Sandy, man, when your lum reeks as lang as ours, it will, may be, need sweeping too.'[J] Now,
I do not deny that we need sweeping; every body knows that I have been singing out about sweeping
for the last five years. Let me tell my good friends in Edinburgh, and in the country, that
the sooner you sweep the better; for the chimney may catch fire, and reduce your noble fabric
to ashes.

"They told us in that letter about the poor needlewomen, that had to work sixteen hours a day.
''Tis true, and pity 'tis 'tis true.' But does the law compel them to work sixteen hours a
day? I would like to ask the writer of the letter. Are they bound down to their garrets and
cellars for sixteen hours a day? May they not go where they like, and ask better wages and
better work? Can the slave do that? Do they tell us of our ragged children? I know something
about ragged children. But are our ragged children condemned to the street? If I, or the lord
provost, or any other benevolent man, should take one of them from the street and bring it
to the school, dare the policeman--miscalled officer of justice--put his foot across the door
to drag it out again to the street? Nobody means to defend our defects; does any man attempt
to defend them? Were not these noble ladies and excellent women, titled and untitled, among
the very first to seek to redress them?"

I wish I could give you the strong, broad Scotch accent. Mrs. W. went with Mr. S. and myself
for a quiet drive in her carriage.

It was a beautiful, sunny day that we drove out to Craigmiller Castle, formerly one of the
royal residences. It was here that Mary retreated after the murder of Rizzio, and where, the
chronicler says, she was often heard in those days wishing that she were in her grave. It seems
so strange to see it standing there all alone, in the midst of grassy fields, so silent, and
cold, and solitary. I got out of the carriage and walked about it. The short, green grass was
gemmed with daisies, and sheep were peacefully feeding and resting, where was once all the
life and bustle of a court.

We had no one to open the inside of the castle for us, where there are still some tolerably
preserved rooms, but we strolled listlessly about, looking through the old arches, and peeping
through slits and loopholes into the interior.

The last verse of Queen Mary's lamentation seemed to be sighing in the air:--

  "O, soon for me shall simmer's suns
    Nae mair light up the morn;
  Nae mair for me the autumn wind
    Wave o'er the yellow corn.
  But in the narrow house of death
    Let winter round me rave,
  And the next flowers that deck the spring
    Bloom on my peaceful grave."

Only yesterday, it seemed, since that poor heart was yearning and struggling, caught in the
toils of this sorrowful life. How many times she looked on this landscape through sad eyes!
I suppose just such little daisies grew here in the grass then, and perhaps she stooped and
picked them, wishing, just as I do, that the pink did not grow on the under side of them, where
it does not show. Do you know that this little daisy is the gowan of Scotch poetry? So I was
told by a "charming young Jessie" in Glasgow, one day when I was riding out there.

The view from Craigmiller is beautiful--Auld Reekie, Arthur's Seat, Salisbury Crags, and far
down the Frith of Forth, where we can just dimly see the Bass Hock, celebrated as a prison,
where the Covenanters were immured.

It was this fortress that Habakkuk Mucklewrath speaks of in his ravings, when he says, "Am
not I Habakkuk Mucklewrath, whose name is changed to Magor-Missabib, because I am made a terror
unto myself, and unto all that are around me? I heard it: when did I hear it? Was it not in
the tower of the Bass, that overhangeth the wide, wild sea? and it howled in the winds, and
it roared in the billows, and it screamed, and it whistled, and it clanged, with the screams,
and the clang, and the whistle of the sea birds, as they floated, and flew, and dropped, and
dived, on the bosom of the waters."

These Salisbury Crags, which overlook Edinburgh, have a very peculiar outline; they resemble
an immense elephant crouching down. We passed Mushats Cairn, where Jeanie Deans met Robertson;
and saw Liberton, where Reuben Butler was a schoolmaster. Nobody doubts, I hope, the historical
accuracy of these points.

Thursday, 21st. We took cars for Aberdeen. The appropriation of old historical names to railroad
stations often reminds me of Hood's whimsical lines on a possible railroad in the Holy Land.
Think of having Bannockburn shouted by the station master, as the train runs whistling up to
a small station house. Nothing to be seen there but broad, silent meadows, through which the
burn wimples its way. Here was the very Marathon of Scotland. I suppose we know more about
it from the "Scots wha ha' wi' Wallace bled," than we do from history; yet the real scene,
as narrated by the historian, has a moral grandeur in it.

The chronicler tells us, that when on this occasion the Scots formed their line of battle,
and a venerable abbot passed along, holding up the cross before them, the whole army fell upon
their knees.

"These Scots will not fight," said Edward, who was reconnoitring at a distance. "See! they
are all on their knees now to beg for mercy."

"They kneel," said a lord who stood by, "but it is to God alone; trust me, those men will win
or die."

The bold lyric of Burns is but an inspired kind of version of the real address which Bruce
is said to have made to his followers; and whoever reads it will see that its power lies not
in appeal to brute force, but to the highest elements of our nature, the love of justice, the
sense of honor, and to disinterestedness, self-sacrifice, courage unto death.

These things will live and form high and imperishable elements of our nature, when mankind
have learned to develop them in other spheres than that of physical force. Burns's lyric, therefore,
has in it an element which may rouse the heart to noble endurance and devotion, even when the
world shall learn war no more.

We passed through the town of Stirling, whose castle, magnificently seated on a rocky throne,
looks right worthy to have been the seat of Scotland's court, as it was for many years. It
brought to our minds all the last scenes of the Lady of the Lake, which are laid here with
a minuteness of local description and allusion characteristic of Scott.

According to our guide book, one might find there the visible counterpart of every thing which
he has woven into his beautiful fiction--"the Lady's Rock, which rang to the applause of the
multitude;" "the Franciscan steeple, which pealed the merry festival;" "the sad and fatal mound,"
apostrophized by Douglas,--

  "That oft has heard the death-axe sound
  As on the noblest of the land,
  Fell the stern headsman's bloody hand;"--

the room in the castle, where "a Douglas by his sovereign bled;" and not far off the ruins
of Cambuskenneth Abbey. One could not but think of the old days Scott has described.

  "The castle gates were open flung,
  The quivering drawbridge rocked and rung,
  And echoed loud the flinty street
  Beneath the coursers' clattering feet,
  As slowly down the steep descent
  Fair Scotland's king and nobles went,
  While all along the crowded way
  Was jubilee and loud huzza."

The place has been long deserted as a palace; but it is one of the four fortresses, which,
by the articles of union between Scotland and England, are always to be kept in repair.

We passed by the town of Perth, the scene of the "Fair Maid's" adventures. We had received
an invitation to visit it, but for want of time were obliged to defer it till our return to
Scotland.

Somewhere along here Mr. S. was quite excited by our proximity to Scone, the old crowning-place
of the Scottish kings; however, the old castle is entirely demolished, and superseded by a
modern mansion, the seat of the Earl of Mansfield.

Still farther on, surrounded by dark and solemn woods, stands Glamis Castle, the scene of the
tragedy in Macbeth. We could see but a glimpse of it from the road, but the very sound of the
name was enough to stimulate our imagination. It is still an inhabited dwelling, though much
to the regret of antiquarians and lovers of the picturesque, the characteristic outworks and
defences of the feudal ages, which surrounded it, have been levelled, and velvet lawns and
gravel walks carried to the very door. Scott, who passed a night there in 1793, while it was
yet in its pristine condition, comments on the change mournfully, as undoubtedly a true lover
of the past would. Albeit the grass plats and the gravel walks, to the eye of sense, are undoubtedly
much more agreeable and convenient. Scott says in his Demonology, that he never came any where
near to being overcome with a superstitious feeling, except twice in his life, and one was
on the night when he slept in Glamis Castle. The poetical and the practical elements in Scott's
mind ran together, side by side, without mixing, as evidently as the waters of the Alleghany
and Monongahela at Pittsburg. Scarcely ever a man had so much relish for the supernatural,
and so little faith in it. One must confess, however, that the most sceptical might have been
overcome at Glamis Castle, for its appearance, by all accounts, is weird and strange, and ghostly
enough to start the dullest imagination.

On this occasion Scott says, "After a very hospitable reception from the late Peter Proctor,
seneschal of the castle, I was conducted to my apartment in a distant part of the building.
I must own, that when I heard door after door shut, after my conductor had retired, I began
to consider myself as too far from the living, and somewhat too near the dead. We had passed
through what is called 'the King's Room,' a vaulted apartment, garnished with stags' antlers
and similar trophies of the chase, and said by tradition to be the spot of Malcolm's murder,
and I had an idea of the vicinity of the castle chapel. In spite of the truth of history, the
whole night scene in Macbeth's castle rushed at once upon my mind, and struck my imagination
more forcibly than even when I have seen its terrors represented by the late John Kemble and
his inimitable sister. In a word, I experienced sensations which, though not remarkable either
for timidity or superstition, did not fail to affect me to the point of being disagreeable,
while they were mingled at the same time with a strange and indescribable kind of pleasure."

Externally, the building is quaint and singular enough; tall and gaunt, crested with innumerable
little pepper box turrets and conical towers, like an old French chateau.

Besides the tragedy of Macbeth, another story of still more melancholy interest is connected
with it, which a pen like that of Hawthorne, might work up with gloomy power.

In 1537 the young and beautiful Lady Glamis of this place was actually tried and executed for
witchcraft. Only think, now! what capabilities in this old castle, with its gloomy pine shades,
quaint architecture, and weird associations, with this bit of historic verity to start upon.

Walter Scott says, there is in the castle a secret chamber; the entrance to which, by the law
of the family, can be known only to three persons at once--the lord of the castle, his heir
apparent, and any third person whom they might choose to take into their confidence. See, now,
the materials which the past gives to the novelist or poet in these old countries. These ancient
castles are standing romances, made to the author's hands. The castle started a talk upon Shakspeare,
and how much of the tragedy he made up, and how much he found ready to his hand in tradition
and history. It seems the story is all told in Holingshed's Chronicles; but his fertile mind
has added some of the most thrilling touches, such as the sleep walking of Lady Macbeth. It
always seemed to me that this tragedy had more of the melancholy majesty and power of the Greek
than any thing modern. The striking difference is, that while fate was the radical element
of those, free will is not less distinctly the basis of this. Strangely enough, while it commences
with a supernatural oracle, there is not a trace of fatalism in it; but through all, a clear,
distinct recognition of moral responsibility, of the power to resist evil, and the guilt of
yielding to it. The theology of Shakspeare is as remarkable as his poetry. A strong and clear
sense of man's moral responsibility and free agency, and of certain future retribution, runs
through all his plays.

"Suppose we just run over to Norway," said one of us; and then came the idea, what we should
do if we got over there, seeing none of us understood Norse.

The whole coast along here is wild and rock-bound; occasionally long points jut into the sea;
the blue waves sparkle and dash against them in little jets of foam, and the sea birds dive
and scream around them.

On one of these points, near the town of Stonehaven, are still seen the ruins of Dunottar Castle,
bare and desolate, surrounded on all sides by the restless, moaning waves; a place justly held
accursed as the scene of cruelties to the Covenanters, so appalling and brutal as to make the
blood boil in the recital, even in this late day.

During the reigns of Charles and James, sovereigns whom Macaulay justly designates as Belial
and Moloch, this castle was the state prison for confining this noble people. In the reign
of James, one hundred and sixty-seven prisoners, men, women, and children, for refusing the
oath of supremacy, were arrested at their firesides: herded together like cattle; driven at
the point of the bayonet, amid the gibes, jeers, and scoffs of soldiers, up to this dreary
place, and thrust promiscuously into a dark vault in this castle; almost smothered in filth
and mire; a prey to pestilent disease, and to every malignity which brutality could inflict,
they died here unpitied. A few escaping down the rocks were recaptured, and subjected to shocking
tortures.

A moss-grown gravestone, in the parish churchyard of Dunottar, shows the last resting-place
of these sufferers.

Walter Scott, who visited this place, says, "The peasantry continue to attach to the tombs
of these victims an honor which they do not render to more splendid mausoleums; and when they
point them out to their sons, and narrate the fate of the sufferers, usually conclude by exhorting
them to be ready, should the times call for it, to resist to the death in the cause of civil
and religious liberty, like their brave forefathers."

It is also related by Gilfillan, that a minister from this vicinity, having once lost his way
in travelling through a distant part of Scotland, vainly solicited the services of a guide
for some time, all being engaged in peat-cutting; at last one of the farmers, some of whose
ancestors had been included among the sufferers, discovering that he came from this vicinity,
had seen the gravestones, and could repeat the inscriptions, was willing to give up half a
day's work to guide him on his way.

It is well that such spots should be venerated as sacred shrines among the descendants of the
Covenanters, to whom Scotland owes what she is, and all she may become.

It was here that Scott first became acquainted with Robert Paterson, the original of Old Mortality.

Leaving Stonehaven we passed, on a rising ground a little to our left, the house of the celebrated
Barclay of Ury. As a Quaker, he became an object of hatred and abuse at the hands of the magistracy
and populace; but he endured all these insults and injuries with the greatest patience and
nobleness of soul.

Whittier has celebrated this incident in his beautiful ballad, called "Barclay of Ury." The
son of this Barclay was the author of that Apology which bears his name, and is still a standard
work among the Friends. The estate is still possessed by his descendants.

A little farther along towards Aberdeen, Mr. S. seemed to amuse himself very much with the
idea, that we were coming near to Dugald Dalgetty's estate of Drumthwacket, an historical remembrance
which I take to be somewhat apocryphal. Besides which the Dee had been enchanted for me from
my childhood, by a wild old ballad which I used to hear sung to a Scottish tune, equally wild
and pathetic. I repeated it to C----, and will now to you.

  "The moon had climbed the highest hill
    That rises o'er the banks of Dee,
  And from her farthest summit poured
    Her silver light o'er tower and tree,--

  When Mary laid her down to sleep,
    Her thoughts on Sandy far at sea,
  And soft and low a voice she heard,
    Saying, 'Mary, weep no more for me.'

  She from her pillow gently raised
    Her head, to see who there might be;
  She saw young Sandy shivering stand,
    With pallid cheek and hollow ee.

  'O Mary dear, cold is my clay;
    It lies beneath the stormy sea;
  The storm, is past, and I'm at rest;
    So, Mary, weep no more for me.'

  Loud crew the cock; the vision fled;
    No more young Sandy could she see;
  But soft a parting whisper said,
    'Sweet Mary, weep no more for me.'"

I never saw these lines in print any where; I never knew who wrote them; I had only heard them
sung at the fireside when a child, to a tune as dreamy and sweet as themselves; but they rose
upon me like an enchantment, as I crossed the Dee, in view of that very German Ocean, famed
for its storms and shipwrecks.

All the afternoon the beautiful coast had reminded me of the State of Maine, and the genius
of the meeting confirmed the association. They seemed to me to be a plain, genial, strong,
warm-hearted people, like those of Maine.

One of the speakers concluded his address by saying that John Bull and Brother Jonathan, with
Paddy and Sandy Scott, should they clasp hands together, might stand against the world; which
sentiment was responded to with thunders of applause.

It is because America, like Scotland, has stood for right against oppression, that the Scotch
love and sympathize with her. For this reason do they feel it as something taken from the strength
of a common cause, when America sides with injustice and oppression. The children of the Covenant
and the children of the Puritans are of one blood.

The town of Aberdeen is a very fine one, and owes much of its beauty to the light-colored granite
of which most of the houses are built. It has broad, clean, beautiful streets, and many very
curious and interesting public buildings. The town exhibits that union of the hoary past with
the bustling present which is characteristic of the old world.

It has two parts, the old and the new, as unlike as L'Allegro and Penseroso--the new, clean,
and modern; the old, mossy and dreamy. The old town is called Alton, and has venerable houses,
standing, many of them, in ancient gardens. And here rises the peculiar, old, gray cathedral.
These Scotch cathedrals have a sort of stubbed appearance, and look like the expression in
stone of defiant, invincible resolution. This is of primitive granite, in the same heavy, massive
style as the cathedral of Glasgow, but having strong individualities of its own.

Whoever located the ecclesiastical buildings of England and Scotland certainly had an exquisite
perception of natural scenery; for one notices that they are almost invariably placed on just
that point of the landscape, where the poet or the artist would say they should be. These cathedrals,
though all having a general similarity of design, seem, each one, to have its own personality,
as much as a human being. Looking at nineteen of them is no compensation to you for omitting
the twentieth; there will certainly be something new and peculiar in that.

This Aberdeen Cathedral, or Cathedral of St. Machar, is situated on the banks of the River
Don; one of those beautiful amber-brown rivers that color the stones and pebbles at the bottom
with a yellow light, such as one sees in ancient pictures. Old trees wave and rustle around,
and the building itself, though a part of it has fallen into ruins, has, in many parts, a wonderful
clearness and sharpness of outline. I cannot describe these things to you; architectural terms
convey no picture to the mind. I can only tell you of the character and impression it bears--a
character of strong, unflinching endurance, appropriately reminding one of the Scotch people,
whom Walter Scott compares to the native sycamore of their hills, "which scorns to be biased
in its mode of growth, even by the influence of the prevailing wind, but shooting its branches
with equal boldness in every direction, shows no weather side to the storm, and may be broken,
but can never be bended."

One reason for the sharpness and distinctness of the architectural preservation of this cathedral
is probably that closeness of texture for which Aberdeen granite is remarkable. It bears marks
of the hand of violence in many parts. The images of saints and bishops, which lie on their
backs with clasped hands, seem to have been wofully maltreated and despoiled, in the fervor
of those days, when people fondly thought that breaking down carved work was getting rid of
superstition. These granite saints and bishops, with their mutilated fingers and broken noses,
seem to be bearing a silent, melancholy witness against that disposition in human nature, which,
instead of making clean the cup and platter, breaks them altogether.

The roof of the cathedral is a splendid specimen of carving in black oak, wrought in panels,
with leaves and inscriptions in ancient text. The church could once boast in other parts (so
says an architectural work) a profusion of carved woodwork of the same character, which must
have greatly relieved the massive plainness of the interior.

In 1649, the parish minister attacked the "High Altar," a piece of the most splendid workmanship
of any thing of the kind in Europe, and which had to that time remained inviolate; perhaps
from the insensible influence of its beauty. It is said that the carpenter employed for the
purpose was so struck with the noble workmanship, that he refused to touch it till the minister
took the hatchet from his hand and gave the first blow.

These men did not consider that "the leprosy lies deep within," and that when human nature
is denied beautiful idols, it will go after ugly ones. There has been just as unspiritual a
resting in coarse, bare, and disagreeable adjuncts of religion, as in beautiful and agreeable
ones; men have worshipped Juggernaut as pertinaciously as they have Venus or the Graces; so
that the good divine might better have aimed a sermon at the heart than an axe at the altar.

We lingered a long time around here, and could scarcely tear ourselves away. We paced up and
down under the old trees, looking off on the waters of the Don, listening to the waving branches,
and falling into a dreamy state of mind, thought what if it were six hundred years ago! and
we were pious simple hearted old abbots! What a fine place that would be to walk up and down
at eventide or on a Sabbath morning, reciting the penitential psalms, or reading St. Augustine!

I cannot get over the feeling, that the souls of the dead do somehow connect themselves with
the places of their former habitation, and that the hush and thrill of spirit, which we feel
in them, may be owing to the overshadowing presence of the invisible. St. Paul says, "We are
compassed about with a great cloud of witnesses." How can they be witnesses, if they cannot
see and be cognizant?

We left the place by a winding walk, to go to the famous bridge of Balgounie, another dream-land
affair, not far from here. It is a single gray stone arch, apparently cut from solid rock,
that spans the brown rippling waters, where wild, overhanging banks, shadowy trees, and dipping
wild flowers, all conspire to make a romantic picture. This bridge, with the river and scenery,
were poetic items that went, with other things, to form the sensitive mind of Byron, who lived
here in his earlier days.

The bridge was built in the time of Robert Bruce, by one Bishop Cheyne, of whom all that I
know is, that he evidently had a good eye for the picturesque.

After this we went to visit King's College. The tower of it is surmounted by a massive stone
crown, which forms a very singular feature in every view of Aberdeen, and is said to be a perfectly
unique specimen of architecture. This King's College is very old, being founded also by a bishop,
as far back as the fifteenth century. It has an exquisitely carved roof, and carved oaken seats.
We went through the library, the hall, and the museum. Certainly, the old, dark architecture
of these universities must tend to form a different style of mind from our plain matter-of-fact
college buildings.

Here in Aberdeen is the veritable Marischal College, so often quoted by Dugald Dalgetty. We
had not time to go and see it, but I can assure you on the authority of the guide book, that
it is a magnificent specimen of architecture.

After this, that we might not neglect the present in our zeal for the past, we went to the
marble yards, where they work the Aberdeen granite. This granite, of which we have many specimens
in America, is of two kinds, one being gray, the other of a reddish hue. It seems to differ
from other granite in the fineness and closeness of its grain, which enables it to receive
the most brilliant conceivable polish. I saw some superb columns of the red species, which
were preparing to go over the Baltic to Riga, for an Exchange; and a sepulchral monument, which
was going to New York. All was busy here, sawing, chipping, polishing; as different a scene
from the gray old cathedral as could be imagined. The granite finds its way, I suppose, to
countries which the old, unsophisticated abbots never dreamed of.

One of the friends who had accompanied us during the morning tour was the celebrated architect,
Mr. Leslie, whose conversation gave us all much enjoyment. He and Mrs. Leslie gave me a most
invaluable parting present, to wit, four volumes of engravings, representing the "Baronial
and Ecclesiastical Antiquities of Scotland," illustrated by Billings. I cannot tell you what
a mine of pleasure it has been to me. It is a proof edition, and the engravings are so vivid,
and the drawing so fine, that it is nearly as good as reality. It might almost save one the
trouble of a pilgrimage. I consider the book a kind of national poem; for architecture is,
in its nature, poetry; especially in these old countries, where it weaves into itself a nation's
history, and gives literally the image and body of the times.

LETTER VII.

DEAR COUSIN:--

While here in Aberdeen I received a very odd letter, so peculiar and curious that I will give
you the benefit of it. The author appears to be, in his way, a kind of Christopher in his cave,
or Timon of Athens. I omit some parts which are more expressive than agreeable. It is dated

  "STONEHAVEN, N.B., Kincardineshire, }
      57° N.W. This 21st April, 1853. }

     "To MRS. HARRIET B. STOWE:--

     "My dear Madam: By the time that this gets your length, the fouk o'
     Aberdeen will be shewin ye off as a rare animal, just arrived frae
     America; the wife that writ Uncle Tom's Cabin.

     "I wad like to see ye mysel, but I canna win for want o' siller,
     and as I thought ye might be writin a buke about the Scotch when ye
     get hame, I hae just sent ye this bit auld key to Sawney's Cabin.

     "Well then, dinna forget to speer at the Aberdeenians if it be true
     they ance kidnappet little laddies, and selt them for slaves; that
     they dang down the Quaker's kirkyard dyke, and houket up dead
     Quakers out o' their graves; that the young boys at the college
     printed a buke, and maist naebody wad buy it, and they cam out to
     Ury, near Stonehaven, and took twelve stots frae Davie Barclay to
     pay the printer.

     "Dinna forget to speer at ----, if it was true that he flogget
     three laddies in the beginning o' last year, for the three
     following crimes: first, for the crime of being born of puir,
     ignorant parents; second, for the crime of being left in
     ignorance; and, third, for the crime of having nothing to eat.

     "Dinna be telling when ye gang hame that ye rode on the Aberdeen
     railway, made by a hundred men, who were all in the Stonehaven
     prison for drunkenness; nor above five could sign their names.

     "If the Scotch kill ye with ower feeding and making speeches, be
     sure to send this hame to tell your fouk, that it was Queen
     Elizabeth who made the first European law to buy and sell human
     beings like brute beasts. She was England's glory as a Protestant,
     and Scotland's shame as the murderer of their bonnie Mary. The auld
     hag skulked away like a coward in the hour of death. Mary, on the
     other hand, with calmness and dignity, repeated a Latin prayer to
     the Great Spirit and Author of her being, and calmly resigned
     herself into the hands of her murderers.

     "In the capital of her ancient kingdom, when ye are in our country,
     there are eight hundred women, sent to prison every year for the
     first time. Of fifteen thousand prisoners examined in Scotland in
     the year 1845, eight thousand could not write at all, and three
     thousand could not read.

     "At present there are about twenty thousand prisoners in Scotland.
     In Stonehaven they are fed at about seventeen pounds each,
     annually. The honest poor, outside the prison upon the parish roll,
     are fed at the rate of five farthings a day, or two pounds a year.
     The employment of the prisoners is grinding the wind, we ca' it;
     turning the crank, in plain English. The latest improvement is the
     streekin board; it's a whig improvement o' Lord Jonnie Russell's.

     "I ken brawly ye are a curious wife, and would like to ken a' about
     the Scotch bodies. Weel, they are a gay, ignorant, proud, drunken
     pack; they manage to pay ilka year for whuskey one million three
     hundred and forty-eight thousand pounds.

     "But then their piety, their piety; weel, let's luke at it; hing it
     up by the nape o' the neck, and turn it round atween our finger and
     thumb on all sides.

     "Is there one school in all Scotland where the helpless, homeless
     poor are fed and clothed at the public expense? None.

     "Is there a hame in all Scotland for the cleanly but sick servant
     maid to go till, until health be restored? Alas! there is none.

     "Is there a school in all Scotland for training ladies in the
     higher branches of learning? None. What then is there for the women
     of Scotland?

       *       *       *       *       *

     "A weel, be sure and try a cupful of Scottish Kail Broase. See, and
     get a sup Scotch lang milk.

     "Hand this bit line yout to the Rev. Mr. ----. Tell him to store
     out fats nae true.

     "God bless you, and set you safe hame, is the prayer of the old
     Scotch Bachelor."

I think you will agree with me, that the old testifying spirit does not seem to have died out
in Scotland, and that the backslidings and abominations of the land do not want for able exponents.

As the indictment runs back to the time of Charles II., to the persecutions of the Quakers
in the days of Barclay of Ury, and brings up again the most modern offences, one cannot but
feel that there are the most savory indications in it of Scotch thoroughness.

Some of the questions which he wishes to have me "speer" at Aberdeen, I fear, alas! would bring
but an indifferent answer even in Boston, which gives a high school only to boys, and allows
none to girls. On one point, it seems to me, my friend might speer himself to advantage, and
that is the very commendable efforts which are being made now in Edinburgh and Aberdeen both,
in the way of educating the children of the poor.

As this is one of the subjects which are particularly on my mind, and as all information which
we can get upon this subject is peculiarly valuable to us in view of commencing efforts in
America, I will abridge for you an account of the industrial schools of Aberdeen, published
by the society for improving the condition of the laboring classes, in their paper called the
Laborer's Friend.

In June, 1841, it was ascertained that in Aberdeen there were two hundred and eighty children,
under fourteen years of age, who maintained themselves professedly by begging, but partly by
theft. The first effort to better the moral condition of these children brought with it the
discovery which our philanthropists made in New York, that in order to do good to a starving
child, we must begin by feeding him; that we must gain his confidence by showing him a benevolence
which he can understand, and thus proceed gradually to the reformation of his spiritual nature.

In 1841, therefore, some benevolent individuals in Aberdeen hired rooms and a teacher, and
gave out notice among these poor children that they could there be supplied with food, work,
and instruction. The general arrangement of the day was four hours of lessons, five hours of
work, and three substantial meals. These meals were employed as the incitement to the lessons
and the work, since it was made an indispensable condition to each meal that the child should
have been present at the work or lessons which preceded it. This arrangement worked admirably;
so that they reported that the attendance was more regular than at ordinary schools.

The whole produce of the work of the children goes towards defraying the expense of the establishment,
thus effecting several important purposes,--reducing the expense of the school, and teaching
the children, practically, the value of their industry,--in procuring for them food and instruction,
and fostering in them, from the first, a sound principle of self-dependence; inasmuch as they
know, from the moment of their entering school, that they give, or pay, in return for their
food and education, all the work they are capable of performing.

The institution did not profess to clothe the children; but by the kindness of benevolent persons
who take an interest in the school, there is generally a stock of old clothes on hand, from
which the most destitute are supplied.

The following is the daily routine of the school: The scholars assemble every morning at seven
in summer, and eight in winter. The school is opened by reading the Scriptures, praise, and
prayer, and religious instruction suited to their years; after which there is a lesson in geography,
or the more ordinary facts of natural history, taught by means of maps and prints distributed
along the walls of the school room; two days in the week they have a singing lesson; at nine
they breakfast on porridge and milk, and have half an hour of play; at ten they again assemble
in school, and are employed at work till two. At two o'clock they dine; usually on broth, with
coarse wheaten bread, but occasionally on potatoes and ox-head soup, &c. The diet is very plain,
but nutritious and abundant, and appears to suit the tastes of the pupils completely. It is
a pleasing sight to see them assembled, with their youthful appetites sharpened by four hours'
work, joining, at least with outward decorum, in asking God's blessing on the food he has provided
for them, and most promptly availing themselves of the signal given to commence their dinner.

From dinner till three, the time is spent in exercise or recreation, occasionally working in
the garden; from three to four, they work either in the garden or in the work room; from four
till seven, they are instructed in reading, writing, and arithmetic. At seven they have supper
of porridge and milk; and after short religious exercises, are dismissed to their homes at eight.

On Saturday, they do not return to school after dinner; and occasionally, as a reward of good
behavior, they accompany the teacher in a walk to the country or the sea coast.

On Sunday, they assemble at half past eight for devotion; breakfast at nine; attend worship
in the school room; after which they dine, and return home, so as, if possible, to go with
their parents to church in the afternoon.

At five they again meet, and have Sabbath school instruction in Bible and catechism; at seven,
supper; and after evening worship are dismissed.

From this detail it will be seen that these schools differ from common day schools. In day
schools, neither food nor employment is provided--teaching only is proposed, with a very little
moral training.

The principle on which the industrial school proceeds, of giving employment along with instruction--especially
as that employment is designed at the same time, if possible, to teach a trade which may be
afterwards available--appears of the highest value. It is a practical discipline--a moral training,
the importance of which cannot be over-estimated.

In a common school, too, there can be but little moral training, however efficiently the school
may be conducted, just because there is little opportunity given for the development and display
of individual character. The whole management of a school requires that the pupils be as speedily
as possible brought to a uniform outward conduct, and thus an appearance of good behavior and
propriety is produced within the school room, which is too often cast aside and forgotten the
moment the pupils pass the threshold.

The remark was once made by an experienced teacher, that for the purposes of moral training
he valued more the time he spent with his pupils at their games, than that which was spent
in the school room.

The pecuniary value of the work done in these schools is not so great as was at first hoped,
from the difficulty of procuring employment such as children so neglected could perform to
advantage. The real value of the thing, however, they consider lies in the habits of industry
and the sense of independence thus imparted.

At the outset the managers of the school regretted extremely their want of ability to furnish
lodgings to the children. It was thought and said that the homes, to which the majority of
them were obliged to return after school hours, would deprave faster than any instruction could
reform. Fortunately it was impossible, at the time, to provide lodging for the children, and
thus an experience was wrought out most valuable to all future laborers in this field.

The managers report that after six years' trial, the instances where evil results from the
children returning home, are very rare; while there have been most cheering instances of substantial
good being carried by the child, from the school, through the whole family. There are few parents,
especially mothers, so abandoned as not to be touched by kindness shown to their offspring.
It is the direct road to the mother's heart. Show kindness to her child, and she is prepared
at once to second your efforts on its behalf. She must be debased, indeed, who will not listen
to her child repeating its text from the Bible, or singing a verse of its infant hymn; and
by this means the first seeds of a new life may be, and have been, planted in the parent's heart.

In cases where parents are so utterly depraved as to make it entirely hopeless to reform the
child at home, they have found it the best course to board them, two or three together, in
respectable families; the influences of the family state being held to be essential.

The success which attended the boys' school of industry soon led to the establishment of one
for girls, conducted on the same principles; and it is stated that the change wrought among
poor, outcast girls, by these means, was even more striking and gratifying than among the boys.

After these schools had been some time in operation, it was discovered that there were still
multitudes of depraved children who could not or did not avail themselves of these privileges.
It was determined by the authorities of the city of Aberdeen, in conformity with the Scripture
injunction, to go out into the highways and hedges and compel them to come in. Under the authority
of the police act they proposed to lay hold of the whole of the juvenile vagrants, and provide
them with food and instruction.

Instructions were given to the police, on the 19th of May, 1845, to convey every child found
begging to the soup kitchen; and, in the course of the day, seventy-five were collected, of
whom four only could read. The scene which ensued is indescribable. Confusion and uproar, quarrelling
and fighting, language of the most hateful description, and the most determined rebellion against
every thing like order and regularity, gave the gentlemen engaged in the undertaking of taming
them the hardest day's work they had ever encountered. Still, they so far prevailed, that,
by evening, their authority was comparatively established. When dismissed, the children were
invited to return next day--informed that, of course, they could do so or not, as they pleased,
and that, if they did, they should be fed and instructed, but that, whether they came or not,
begging would not be tolerated. Next day, the greater part returned. The managers felt that
they had triumphed, and that a great field of moral usefulness was now secured to them.

The class who were brought to this school were far below those who attend the other two institutions--low
as they appeared to be when the schools were first opened; and the scenes of filth, disease,
and misery, exhibited even in the school itself, were such as would speedily have driven from
the work all merely sentimental philanthropists. Those who undertake this work must have sound,
strong principle to influence them, else they will soon turn from it in disgust.

The school went on prosperously; it soon excited public interest; funds flowed in; and, what
is most gratifying, the working classes took a lively interest in it; and while the wealthier
inhabitants of Aberdeen contributed during the year about one hundred and fifty pounds for
its support, the working men collected, and handed over to the committee, no less than two
hundred and fifty pounds.

Very few children in attendance at the industrial schools have been convicted of any offence.
The regularity of attendance is owing to the children receiving their food in the school; and
the school hours being from seven in the morning till seven at night, there is little opportunity
for the commission of crime.

The experience acquired in these schools, and the connection which most of the managers had
with the criminal courts of the city, led to the opening of a fourth institution--the Child's
Asylum. Acting from day to day as judges, these gentlemen had occasionally cases brought before
them which gave them extreme pain. Children--nay, infants--were brought up on criminal charges:
the facts alleged against them were incontestably proved; and yet, in a moral sense, they could
scarcely be held guilty, because, in truth, they did not know that they had done wrong.

There were, however, great practical difficulties in the way, which could only be got over
indirectly. The magistrate could adjourn the case, directing the child to be cared for in the
mean time, and inquiry could be made as to his family and relations, as to his character, and
the prospect of his doing better in future; and he could either be restored to his relations,
or boarded in the house of refuge, or with a family, and placed at one or other of the industrial
schools; the charge of crime still remaining against him, to be made use of at once if he deserted
school and returned to evil courses.

The great advantage sought here was to avoid stamping the child for life with the character
of a convicted felon before he deserved it. Once thus brand a child in this country, and it
is all but impossible for him ever, by future good conduct, to efface the mask. How careful
ought the law and those who administer it to be, not rashly to impress this stigma on the neglected
child!

The Child's Asylum was opened on the 4th of December, 1846; and as a proof of the efficiency
of the industrial schools in checking juvenile vagrancy and delinquency, it may be noticed
that nearly a week elapsed before a child was brought to the asylum. When a child is apprehended
by the police for begging, or other misdemeanor, he is conveyed to this institution, and his
case is investigated; for which purpose the committee meets daily. If the child be of destitute
parents, he is sent to one of the industrial schools; if the child of a worthless, but not
needy, parent, efforts are made to induce the parent to fulfil his duty, and exercise his authority
in restraining the evil habits of the child, by sending him to school, or otherwise removing
him out of the way of temptation.

From the 4th of December up to the 18th of March, forty-seven cases, several of them more than
once, had been brought up and carefully inquired into. Most of them were disposed of in the
manner now stated; but a few were either claimed by, or remitted to, the procurator fiscal,
as proper objects of punishment.

It is premature to say much of an institution which has existed for so short a time; but if
the principle on which it is founded be as correct and sound as it appears, it must prosper
and do good. There is, however, one great practical difficulty, which can only be removed by
legislative enactment: there is no power at present to detain the children in the Asylum, or
to force them to attend the schools to which they have been Bent.

Such have been the rise and progress of the four industrial schools in Aberdeen, including,
as one of them, the Child's Asylum.

All the schools are on the most catholic basis, the only qualification for membership being
a subscription of a few shillings a year; and the doors are open to all who require admission,
without distinction of sect or party.

The experience, then, of Aberdeen appears to demonstrate the possibility of reclaiming even
the most abject and depraved of our juvenile population at a very moderate expense. The schools
have been so long in operation, that, if there had been anything erroneous in the principles
or the management of them, it must ere now have appeared; and if all the results have been
encouraging, why should not the system be extended and established in other places? There is
nothing in it which may not easily be copied in any town or village of our land where it is
required.

I cannot help adding to this account some directions, which a very experienced teacher in these
schools gives to those who are desirous of undertaking this enterprise.

"1. The school rooms and appurtenances ought to be of the plainest and most unpretending description.
This is perfectly consistent with the most scrupulous cleanliness and complete ventilation.
In like manner, the food should be wholesome, substantial, and abundant, but very plain--such
as the boys or girls may soon be able to attain, or even surpass, by their own exertions after
leaving school.

"2. The teachers must ever be of the best description, patient and persevering, not easily
discouraged, and thoroughly versed in whatever branch they may have to teach; and, above all
things, they must be persons of solid and undoubted piety--for without this qualification,
all others will, in the end, prove worthless and unavailing.

"Throughout the day, the children must ever be kept in mind that, after all, religion is 'the
one thing needful;' that the soul is of more value than the body.

"3. The schools must be kept of moderate size: from their nature this is absolutely necessary.
It is a task of the greatest difficulty to manage, in a satisfactory manner, a large school
of children, even of the higher classes, with all the advantages of careful home-training and
superintendence; but with industrial schools it is folly to attempt it.

"From eighty to one hundred scholars is the largest number that ever should be gathered into
one institution; when they exceed this, let additional schools be opened; in other words, increase
the number, not the size, of the schools. They should be put down in the localities most convenient
for the scholars, so that distance may be no bar to attendance; and if circumstances permit,
a garden, either at the school or at no very great distance, will be of great utility.

"4. As soon as practicable, the children should be taught, and kept steadily at, some trade
or other, by which they may earn their subsistence on leaving school; for the longer they have
pursued this particular occupation at school, the more easily will they be able thereby to
support themselves afterwards.

"As to commencing schools in new places, the best way of proceeding is for a few persons, who
are of one mind on the subject, to unite, advance from their own purses, or raise among their
friends, the small sum necessary at the outset, get their teacher, open their school, and collect
a few scholars, gradually extend the number, and when they have made some progress, then tell
the public what they have been doing; ask them to come and see; and, if they approve, to give
their money and support. Public meetings and eloquent speeches are excellent things for exciting
interest and raising funds, but they are of no use in carrying on the every-day work of the school.

"Let not the managers expect impossibilities. There will be crime and distress in spite of
industrial schools; but they may be immensely reduced; and let no one be discouraged by the
occasional lapse into a crime of a promising pupil. Such things must be while sin reigns in
the heart of man; let them only be thereby stirred up to greater and more earnest exertion
in their work.

"Let them be most careful as to the parties whom they admit to act along with them; for unless
all the laborers be of one heart and mind, divisions must ensue, and the whole work be marred.

"It is most desirable that as many persons as possible of wealth and influence should lend
their aid in supporting these institutions. Patrons and subscribers should be of all ranks
and denominations; but they must beware of interfering with the actual daily working of the
school, which ought to be left to the unfettered energies of those who, by their zeal, their
activity, their sterling principle, and their successful administration, have proved themselves
every way competent to the task they have undertaken.

"If the managers wish to carry out the good effect of their schools to the utmost, then they
will not confine their labor to the scholars; they will, through them, get access to the parents.
The good which the ladies of the Aberdeen Female School have already thus accomplished is not
to be told; but let none try this work who do not experimentally know the value of the immortal
soul."

Industrial schools seem to open a bright prospect to the hitherto neglected outcasts of our
cities; for them a new era seems to be commencing: they are no longer to be restrained and
kept in order by the iron bars of the prison house, and taught morality by the scourge of the
executioner. They are now to be treated as reasonable and immortal beings; and may He who is
the God of the poor as well as the rich give his effectual blessing with them, wherever they
may be established, so that they may be a source of joy and rejoicing to all ranks of society.

Such is the result of the "speerings" recommended by my worthy correspondent. I have given
them much at length, because they are useful to us in the much needed reforms commencing in
our cities.

As to the appalling statements about intemperance, I grieve to say that they are confirmed
by much which must meet the eye even of the passing stranger. I have said before how often
the natural features of this country reminded me of the State of Maine. Would that the beneficent
law which has removed, to so great an extent, pauperism and crime from that noble state might
also be given to Scotland.

I suppose that the efforts for the benefit of the poorer classes in this city might be paralleled
by efforts of a similar nature in the other cities of Scotland, particularly in Edinburgh,
where great exertions have been making; but I happened to have a more full account of these
in Aberdeen, and so give them as specimens of the whole. I must say, however, that in no city
which I visited in Scotland did I see such neatness, order, and thoroughness, as in Aberdeen;
and in none did there appear to be more gratifying evidences of prosperity and comfort among
that class which one sees along the streets and thoroughfares.

Our way at first lay over the course of yesterday, along that beautiful sea coast--beautiful
to the eye, but perilous to the navigator. They told us that the winds and waves raged here
with an awful power. Not long before we came, the Duke of Sutherland, an iron steamer, was
wrecked upon this shore. In one respect the coast of Maine has decidedly the advantage over
this, and, indeed, of every other sea coast which I have ever visited; and that is in the richness
of the wooding, which veils its picturesque points and capes in luxuriant foldings of verdure.

On the stage we were surrounded by many very pleasant people, with whom, between the services,
we talked without knowing their names. The venerable Dr. Dick, the author of the Christian
Philosopher and the Philosophy of the Future State, was there. Gilfillan was also present,
and spoke. Together with their contribution to the Scottish offering, they presented me with
quite a collection of the works of different writers of Dundee, beautifully bound.

We came away before the exercises of the evening were finished.

The next morning we had quite a large breakfast party, mostly ministers and their wives. Good
old Dr. Dick was there, and I had an introduction to him, and had pleasure in speaking to him
of the interest with which his works have been read in America. Of this fact I was told that
he had received more substantial assurance in a comfortable sum of money subscribed and remitted
to him by his American readers. If this be so it is a most commendable movement.

What a pity it was, during Scott's financial embarrassments, that every man, woman, and child
in America, who had received pleasure from his writings, had not subscribed something towards
an offering justly due to him!

Our host, Mr. Thoms, was one of the first to republish in Scotland Professor Stuart's Letters
to Dr. Channing, with a preface of his own. He showed me Professor Stuart's letter in reply,
and seemed rather amused that the professor directed it to the Rev. James Thom, supposing,
of course, that so much theological zeal could not inhere in a layman. He also showed us many
autograph letters of their former pastor, Mr. Cheyne, whose interesting memoirs have excited
a good deal of attention in some circles in America.

After breakfast the ladies of the Dundee Antislavery Society called, and then the lord provost
took us in his carriage to see the city. Dundee is the third town of Scotland in population,
and a place of great antiquity. Its population in 1851 was seventy-eight thousand eight hundred
and twenty-nine, and the manufactures consist principally of yarns, linen, with canvas and
cotton bagging, great quantities of which are exported to France and North and South America.
There are about sixty spinning mills and factories in the town and neighborhood, besides several
iron founderies and manufactories of steam engines and machinery.

Dundee has always been a stronghold of liberty and the reformed religion. It is said that in
the grammar school of this town William Wallace was educated; and here an illustrious confraternity
of noblemen and gentry was formed, who joined to resist the tyranny of England.

Here Wishart preached in the beginning of the reformation, preparatory to his martyrdom. Here
flourished some rude historical writers, who devoted their talents to the downfall of Popery.
Singularly enough, they accomplished this in part by dramatic representations, in which the
vices and absurdities of the Papal establishment were ridiculed before the people. Among others,
one James Wedderburn and his brother, John, vicar of Dundee, are mentioned as having excelled
in this kind of composition. The same authors composed books of song, denominated "Gude and
Godly Ballads," wherein the frauds and deceits of Popery were fully pointed out. A third brother
of the family, being a musical genius, it is said, "turned the times and tenor of many profane
songs into godly songs and hymns, whereby he stirred up the affections of many," which tunes
were called the Psalms of Dundee. Here, perhaps, was the origin of "Dundee's wild warbling
measures."

The conjoint forces of tragedy, comedy, ballads, and music, thus brought to bear on the popular
mind, was very great.

Dundee has been a great sufferer during the various civil commotions in Scotland. In the time
of Charles I. it stood out for the solemn league and covenant, for which crime the Earl of
Montrose was sent against it, who took and burned it. It is said that he called Dundee a most
seditious town, the securest haunt and receptacle of rebels, and a place that had contributed
as much as any other to the rebellion. Yet afterwards, when Montrose was led a captive through
Dundee, the historian observes, "It is remarkable of the town of Dundee, in which he lodged
one night, that though it had suffered more by his army than any town else within the kingdom,
yet were they, amongst all the rest, so far from exulting over him, that the whole town testified
a great deal of sorrow for his woful condition; and there was he likewise furnished with clothes
suitable to his birth and person."

This town of Dundee was stormed by Monk and the forces of Parliament during the time of the
commonwealth, because they had sheltered the fugitive Charles II., and granted him money. When
taken by Monk, he committed a great many barbarities.

It has also been once visited by the plague, and once with a seven years' dearth or famine.

Most of these particulars I found in a History of Dundee, which formed one of the books presented
to me.

The town is beautifully situated on the Firth of Tay, which here spreads its waters, and the
quantity of shipping indicates commercial prosperity.

I was shown no abbeys or cathedrals, either because none ever existed, or because they were
destroyed when the town was fired.

In our rides about the city, the local recollections that our friends seemed to recur to with
as much interest as any, were those connected with the queen's visit to Dundee, in 1844. The
spot where she landed has been commemorated by the erection of a superb triumphal arch in stone.
The provost said some of the people were quite astonished at the plainness of the queen's dress,
having looked for something very dazzling and overpowering from a queen. They could scarcely
believe their eyes, when they saw her riding by in a plain bonnet, and enveloped in a simple
shepherd's plaid.

The queen is exceedingly popular in Scotland, doubtless in part because she heartily appreciated
the beauty of the country, and the strong and interesting traits of the people. She has a country
residence at Balmorrow, where she spends a part of every year; and the impression seems to
prevail among her Scottish subjects, that she never appears to feel herself more happy or more
at home than in this her Highland dwelling. The legend is, that here she delights to throw
off the restraints of royalty; to go about plainly dressed, like a private individual; to visit
in the cottages of the poor; to interest herself in the instruction of the children; and to
initiate the future heir of England into that practical love of the people which is the best
qualification for a ruler.

I repeat to you the things which I hear floating of the public characters of England, and you
can attach what degree of credence you may think proper. As a general rule in this censorious
world, I think it safe to suppose that the good which is commonly reported of public characters,
if not true in the letter of its details, is at least so in its general spirit. The stories
which are told about distinguished people generally run in a channel coincident with the facts
of their character. On the other hand, with regard to evil reports, it is safe always to allow
something for the natural propensity to detraction and slander, which is one of the most undoubted
facts of human nature in all lands.

We left Dundee at two o'clock, by cars, for Edinburgh. In the evening we attended another soirée
of the working men of Edinburgh. As it was similar in all respects to the one at Glasgow, I
will not dwell upon it, further than to say how gratifying to me, in every respect, are occasions
in which working men, as a class, stand out before the public. They are to form, more and more,
a new power in society, greater than the old power of helmet and sword, and I rejoice in every
indication that they are learning to understand themselves.

We have received letters from the working men, both in Dundee and Glasgow, desiring our return
to attend soirées in those cities. Nothing could give us greater pleasure, had we time and
strength. No class of men are more vitally interested in the conflict of freedom against slavery
than working men. The principle upon which slavery is founded touches every interest of theirs.
If it be right that one half of the community should deprive the other half of education, of
all opportunities to rise in the world, of all property rights and all family ties, merely
to make them more convenient tools for their profit and luxury, then every injustice and extortion,
which oppresses the laboring man in any country, can be equally defended.

LETTER VIII.

DEAR AUNT E.:--

You wanted us to write about our visit to Melrose; so here you have it.

On Tuesday morning Mr. S. and C---- had agreed to go back to Glasgow for the purpose of speaking
at a temperance meeting, and as we were restricted for time, we were obliged to make the visit
to Melrose in their absence, much to the regret of us all. G---- thought we would make a little
quiet run out in the cars by ourselves, while Mr. S. and C---- were gone back to Glasgow.

It was one of those soft, showery, April days, misty and mystical, now weeping and now shining,
that we found ourselves whirled by the cars through this enchanted ground of Scotland. Almost
every name we heard spoken along the railroad, every stream we passed, every point we looked
at, recalled some line of Walter Scott's poetry, or some event of history. The thought that
he was gone forever, whose genius had given the charm to all, seemed to settle itself down
like a melancholy mist. To how little purpose seemed the few, short years of his life, compared
with the capabilities of such a soul! Brilliant as his success had been, how was it passed
like a dream! It seemed sad to think that he had not only passed away himself, but that almost
the whole family and friendly circle had passed with him--not a son left to bear his name!

Here we were in the region of the Ettrick, the Yarrow, and the Tweed.

"Melrose!" said the loud voice of the conductor; and starting, I looked up and saw quite a
flourishing village, in the midst of which rose the old, gray, mouldering walls of the abbey.
Now, this was somewhat of a disappointment to me. I had been somehow expecting to find the
building standing alone in the middle of a great heath, far from all abodes of men, and with
no companions more hilarious than the owls. However, it was no use complaining; the fact was,
there was a village, and what was more, a hotel, and to this hotel we were to go to get a guide
for the places we were to visit; for it was understood that we were to "do" Melrose, Dryburgh,
and Abbotsford, all in one day. There was no time for sentiment; it was a business affair,
that must be looked in the face promptly, if we meant to get through. Ejaculations and quotations
of poetry could, of course, be thrown in, as William, of Deloraine pattered his prayers, while
riding.

We all alighted at a very comfortable hotel, and were ushered into as snug a little parlor
as one's heart could desire.

The next thing was to hire a coachman to take us, in the rain,--for the mist had now swelled
into a rain,--through the whole appropriate round. I stood by and heard names which I had never
heard before, except in song, brought into view in their commercial relations; so much for
Abbotsford; and so much for Dryburgh; and then, if we would like to throw in Thomas the Rhymer's
Tower, why, that would be something extra.

"Thomas the Rhymer?" said one of the party, not exactly posted up. "Was he any thing remarkable?
Well, is it worth while to go to his tower? It will cost something extra, and take more time."

Weighed in such a sacrilegious balance, Thomas was found wanting, of course: the idea of driving
three or four miles farther to see an old tower, supposed to have belonged to a man who is
supposed to have existed and to have been carried off by a supposititious Queen of the Fairies
into Elfland, was too absurd for reasonable people; in fact, I made believe myself that I did
not care much about it, particularly as the landlady remarked, that if we did not get home
by five o'clock "the chops might be spoiled."

As we all were packed into a tight coach, the rain still pouring, I began to wish mute Nature
would not be quite so energetic in distilling her tears. A few sprinkling showers, or a graceful
wreath of mist, might be all very well; but a steady, driving rain, that obliged us to shut
up the carriage windows, and coated them with mist so that we could not look out, why, I say
it is enough to put out the fire of sentiment in any heart. We might as well have been rolled
up in a bundle and carried through the country, for all the seeing it was possible to do under
such circumstances. It, therefore, should be stated, that we did keep bravely up in our poetic
zeal, which kindly Mrs. W. also reënforced, by distributing certain very delicate sandwiches
to support the outer man.

At length, the coach stopped at the entrance of Abbotsford grounds, where there was a cottage,
out of which, due notice being given, came a trim, little old woman in a black gown, with pattens
on; she put up her umbrella, and we all put up ours; the rain poured harder than ever as we
went dripping up the gravel walk, looking much, I inly fancied, like a set of discomforted
fowls fleeing to covert. We entered the great court yard, surrounded with a high wall, into
which were built sundry fragments of curious architecture that happened to please the poet's fancy.

I had at the moment, spite of the rain, very vividly in my mind Washington Irving's graceful
account of his visit to Abbotsford while this house was yet building, and the picture which
he has given of Walter Scott sitting before his door, humorously descanting on various fragments
of sculpture, which lay scattered about, and which he intended to immortalize by incorporating
into his new dwelling.

Viewed as a mere speculation, or, for aught I know, as an architectural effort, this building
may, perhaps, be counted as a mistake and a failure. I observe, that it is quite customary
to speak of it, among some, as a pity that he ever undertook it. But viewed as a development
of his inner life, as a working out in wood and stone of favorite fancies and cherished ideas,
the building has to me a deep interest. The gentle-hearted poet delighted himself in it; this
house was his stone and wood poem, as irregular, perhaps, and as contrary to any established
rule, as his Lay of the Last Minstrel, but still wild and poetic. The building has this interest,
that it was throughout his own conception, thought, and choice; that he expressed himself in
every stone that was laid, and made it a kind of shrine, into which he wove all his treasures
of antiquity, and where he imitated, from the beautiful, old, mouldering ruins of Scotland,
the parts that had touched him most deeply.

The walls of one room were of carved oak from the Dunfermline Abbey; the ceiling of another
imitated from Roslin Castle; here a fireplace was wrought in the image of a favorite niche
in Melrose; and there the ancient pulpit of Erskine was wrought into a wall. To him, doubtless,
every object in the house was suggestive of poetic fancies; every carving and bit of tracery
had its history, and was as truly an expression of something in the poet's mind as a verse
of his poetry.

A building wrought out in this way, and growing up like a bank of coral, may very possibly
violate all the proprieties of criticism; it may possibly, too, violate one's ideas of mere
housewifery utility; but by none of these rules ought such a building to be judged. We should
look at it rather as the poet's endeavor to render outward and visible the dream land of his
thoughts, and to create for himself a refuge from the cold, dull realities of life, in an architectural
romance.

These were thoughts which gave interest to the scene as we passed through the porchway, adorned
with petrified stags' horns, into the long entrance hall of the mansion. This porch was copied
from one in Linlithgow palace. One side of this hall was lighted by windows of painted glass.
The floor was of black and white marble from the Hebrides. Round the whole cornice there was
a line of coats armorial, richly blazoned, and the following inscription in old German text:

"These be the coat armories of the clanns and chief men of name wha keepit the marchys of Scotland
in the old tyme for the kynge. Trewe men war they in their tyme, and in their defence God them
defendyt."

There were the names of the Douglases, the Elliots, the Scotts, the Armstrongs, and others.
I looked at this arrangement with interest, because I knew that Scott must have taken a particular
delight in it.

The fireplace, designed from a niche in Melrose Abbey, also in this room, and a choice bit
of sculpture it is. In it was an old grate, which had its history also, and opposite to it
the boards from the pulpit of Erskine were wrought into a kind of side table, or something
which served that purpose. The spaces between the windows were decorated with pieces of armor,
crossed swords, and stags' horns, each one of which doubtless had its history. On each side
of the door, at the bottom of the hall, was a Gothic shrine, or niche, in both of which stood
a figure in complete armor.

Then we went into the drawing room; a lofty saloon, the woodwork of which is entirely of cedar,
richly wrought; probably another of the author's favorite poetic fancies. It is adorned with
a set of splendid antique ebony furniture; cabinet, chairs, and piano--the gift of George IV.
to the poet.

We went into his library; a magnificent room, on which, I suppose, the poet's fancy had expended
itself more than any other. The roof is of carved oak, after models from Roslin Castle. Here,
in a niche, is a marble bust of Scott, as we understood a present from Chantrey to the poet;
it was one of the best and most animated representations of him I ever saw, and very much superior
to the one under the monument in Edinburgh. On expressing my idea to this effect, I found I
had struck upon a favorite notion of the good woman who showed us the establishment; she seemed
to be an ancient servant of the house, and appeared to entertain a regard for the old laird
scarcely less than idolatry. One reason why this statue is superior is, that it represents
his noble forehead, which the Edinburgh one suffers to be concealed by falling hair: to cover
such a forehead seems scarcely less than a libel.

The whole air of this room is fanciful and picturesque in the extreme. The walls are entirely
filled with the bookcases, there being about twenty thousand volumes. A small room opens from
the library, which was Scott's own private study. His writing table stood in the centre, with
his inkstand on it, and before it a large, plain, black leather arm chair.

In a glass case, I think in this room, was exhibited the suit of clothes he last wore; a blue
coat with large metal buttons, plaid trousers, and broad-brimmed hat. Around the sides of this
room there was a gallery of light tracery work; a flight of stairs led up to it, and in one
corner of it was a door which the woman said led to the poet's bed room. One seemed to see
in all this arrangement how snug, and cozy, and comfortable the poet had thus ensconced himself,
to give himself up to his beloved labors and his poetic dreams. But there was a cold and desolate
air of order and adjustment about it which reminds one of the precise and chilling arrangements
of a room from which has just been carried out a corpse; all is silent and deserted.

The house is at present the property of Scott's only surviving daughter, whose husband has
assumed the name of Scott. We could not learn from our informant whether any of the family
was in the house. We saw only the rooms which are shown to visitors, and a coldness, like that
of death, seemed to strike to my heart from their chilly solitude.

As we went out of the house we passed another company of tourists coming in, to whom we heard
our guide commencing the same recitation, "this is," and "this is," &c., just as she had done
to us. One thing about the house and grounds had disappointed me; there was not one view from
a single window I saw that was worth any thing, in point of beauty; why a poet, with an eye
for the beautiful, could have located a house in such an indifferent spot, on an estate where
so many beautiful sites were at his command, I could not imagine.

As to the external appearance of Abbotsford, it is as irregular as can well be imagined. There
are gables, and pinnacles, and spires, and balconies, and buttresses any where and every where,
without rhyme or reason; for wherever the poet wanted a balcony, he had it; or wherever he
had a fragment of carved stone, or a bit of historic tracery, to put in, he made a shrine for
it forthwith, without asking leave of any rules. This I take to be one of the main advantages
of Gothic architecture; it is a most catholic and tolerant system, and any kind of eccentricity
may find refuge beneath its mantle.

Here and there, all over the house, are stones carved with armorial bearings and pious inscriptions,
inserted at random wherever the poet fancied. Half way up the wall in one place is the door
of the old Tolbooth at Edinburgh, with the inscription over it, "The Lord of armeis is my protector;
blissit ar thay that trust in the Lord. 1575."

A doorway at the west end of the house is composed of stones which formed the portal of the
Tolbooth, given to Sir Walter on the pulling down of the building in 1817.

On the east side of the house is a rude carving of a sword with the words, "Up with ye, sutors
of Selkyrke. A.D. 1525." Another inscription, on the same side of the house, runs thus:--

  "By night, by day, remember ay
    The goodness of ye Lord;
  And thank his name, whose glorious fame
    Is spread throughout ye world.--A.C.M.D. 1516."

In the yard, to the right of the doorway of the mansion, we saw the figure of Scott's favorite
dog Maida, with a Latin inscription--

  "Maidæ marmorea dormis sub imagine, Maida,
  Ad januam domini: sit tibi terra levis."

Which in our less expressive English we might render--

  At thy lord's door, in slumbers light and blest,
  Maida, beneath this marble Maida, rest:
  Light lie the turf upon thy gentle breast.

One of the most endearing traits of Scott was that sympathy and harmony which always existed
between him and the brute creation.

Poor Maida seemed cold and lonely, washed by the rain in the damp grass plat. How sad, yet
how expressive is the scriptural phrase for indicating death! "He shall return to his house
no more, neither shall his place know him any more." And this is what all our homes are coming
to; our buying, our planting, our building, our marrying and giving in marriage, our genial
firesides and dancing children, are all like so many figures passing through the magic lantern,
to be put out at last in death.

The grounds, I was told, are full of beautiful paths and seats, favorite walks and lounges
of the poet; but the obdurate pertinacity of the rain compelled us to choose the very shortest
path possible to the carriage. I picked a leaf of the Portugal laurel, which I send you.

Next we were driven to Dryburgh, or rather to the banks of the Tweed, where a ferryman, with
a small skiff waits to take passengers over.

The Tweed is a clear, rippling river, with a white, pebbly bottom, just like our New England
mountain streams. After we landed we were to walk to the Abbey. Our feet were damp and cold,
and our boatman invited us to his cottage. I found him and all his family warmly interested
in the fortunes of Uncle Tom and his friends, and for his sake they received me as a long-expected
friend. While I was sitting by the ingleside,--that is, a coal grate,--warming my feet, I fell
into conversation with my host. He and his family, I noticed, spoke English more than Scotch;
he was an intelligent young man, in appearance and style of mind precisely what you might expect
to meet in a cottage in Maine. He and all the household, even the old grandmother, had read
Uncle Tom's Cabin, and were perfectly familiar with all its details. He told me that it had
been universally read in the cottages in the vicinity. I judged from his mode of speaking,
that he and his neighbors were in the habit of reading a great deal. I spoke of going to Dryburgh
to see the grave of Scott, and inquired if his works were much read by the common people. He
said that Scott was not so much a favorite with the people as Burns. I inquired if he took
a newspaper. He said that the newspapers were kept at so high a price that working men were
not able to take them; sometimes they got sight of them through clubs, or by borrowing. How
different, thought I, from America, where a workingman would as soon think of going without
his bread as without his newspaper!

The cottages of these laboring people, of which there were a whole village along here, are
mostly of stone, thatched with straw. This thatch sometimes gets almost entirely grown over
with green moss. Thus moss-covered was the roof of the cottage where we stopped, opposite to
Dryburgh grounds.

There was about this time one of those weeping pauses in the showery sky, and a kind of thinning
and edging away of the clouds, which gave hope that perhaps the sun was going to look out,
and give to our persevering researches the countenance of his presence. This was particularly
desirable, as the old woman, who came out with her keys to guide us, said she had a cold and
a cough: we begged that she would not trouble herself to go with us at all. The fact is, with
all respect to nice old women, and the worthy race of guides in general, they are not favorable
to poetic meditation. We promised to be very good if she would let us have the key, and lock
up all the gates, and bring it back; but no, she was faithfulness itself, and so went coughing
along through the dripping and drowned grass to open the gates for us.

This Dryburgh belongs now to the Earl of Buchan, having been bought by him from a family of
the name of Haliburton, ancestral connections of Scott, who, in his autobiography, seems to
lament certain mischances of fortune which prevented the estate from coming into his own family,
and gave them, he said, nothing but the right of stretching their bones there. It seems a pity,
too, because the possession of this rich, poetic ruin would have been a mine of wealth to Scott,
far transcending the stateliest of modern houses.

Now, if you do not remember Scott's poem, of the Eve of St. John, you ought to read it over;
for it is, I think, the most spirited of all his ballads; nothing conceals the transcendent
lustre and beauty of these compositions, but the splendor of his other literary productions.
Had he never written any thing but these, they would have made him a name as a poet. As it
was, I found the fanciful chime of the cadences in this ballad ringing through my ears. I kept
saying to myself--

  "The Dryburgh bells do ring,
  And the white monks do sing
  For Sir Richard of Coldinghame."

And as I was wandering around in the labyrinth, of old, broken, mossy arches, I thought--

  "There is a nun in Dryburgh bower
    Ne'er looks upon the sun;
  There is a monk in Melrose tower,
    He speaketh word to none.

  That nun who ne'er beholds the day,
    That monk who speaks to none,
  That nun was Smaylhome's lady gay,
    That monk the bold Baron."

It seems that there is a vault in this edifice which has had some superstitious legends attached
to it, from having been the residence, about fifty years ago, of a mysterious lady, who, being
under a vow never to behold the light of the sun, only left her cell at midnight. This little
story, of course, gives just enough superstitious chill to this beautiful ruin to help the
effect of the pointed arches, the clinging wreaths of ivy, the shadowy pines, and yew trees;
in short, if one had not a guide waiting, who had a bad cold, if one could stroll here at leisure
by twilight or moonlight, one might get up a considerable deal of the mystic and poetic.

There is a part of the ruin that stands most picturesquely by itself, as if old Time had intended
it for a monument. It is the ruin of that part of the chapel called St. Mary's Aisle; it stands
surrounded by luxuriant thickets of pine and other trees, a cluster of beautiful Gothic arches
supporting a second tier of smaller and more fanciful ones, one or two of which have that light
touch of the Moorish in their form which gives such a singular and poetic effect in many of
the old Gothic ruins. Out of these wild arches and windows wave wreaths of ivy, and slender
harebells shake their blue pendants, looking in and out of the lattices like little capricious
fairies. There are fragments of ruins lying on the ground, and the whole air of the thing is
as wild, and dreamlike, and picturesque as the poet's fanciful heart could have desired.

Underneath these arches he lies beside his wife; around him the representation of the two things
he loved most--the wild bloom and beauty of nature, and the architectural memorial of by-gone
history and art. Yet there was one thing I felt I would have had otherwise; it seemed to me
that the flat stones of the pavement are a weight too heavy and too cold to be laid on the
breast of a lover of nature and the beautiful. The green turf, springing with flowers, that
lies above a grave, does not seem, to us so hopeless a barrier between us and what was warm
and loving; the springing grass and daisies there seem, types and assurances that the mortal
beneath shall put on immortality; they come up to us as kind messages from the peaceful dust,
to say that it is resting in a certain hope of a glorious resurrection.

On the cold flagstones, walled in by iron railings, there were no daisies and no moss; but
I picked many of both from, the green turf around, which, with some sprigs of ivy from the
walls, I send you.

It is strange that we turn away from the grave of this man, who achieved to himself the most
brilliant destiny that ever an author did,--raising himself by his own unassisted efforts to
be the chosen companions of nobles and princes, obtaining all that heart could desire of riches
and honor,--we turn away and say, Poor Walter Scott! How desolately touching is the account
in Lockhart, of his dim and indistinct agony the day his wife was brought here to be buried!
and the last part of that biography is the saddest history that I know; it really makes us
breathe a long sigh of relief when we read of the lowering of the coffin into this vault.

What force does all this give to the passage in his diary in which he records his estimate
of life!--"What is this world? a dream within a dream. As we grow older, each step is an awakening.
The youth awakes, as he thinks, from childhood; the full-grown man despises the pursuits of
youth as visionary; the old man looks on manhood as a feverish dream. The grave the last sleep?
No; it is the last and final awakening."

It has often been remarked, that there is no particular moral purpose aimed at by Scott in
his writings; he often speaks of it himself in his last days, in a tone of humility. He represents
himself as having been employed mostly in the comparatively secondary department of giving
innocent amusement. He often expressed, humbly and earnestly, the hope that he had, at least,
done no harm; but I am inclined to think, that although moral effect was not primarily his
object, yet the influence of his writings and whole existence on earth has been decidedly good.

It is a great thing to have a mind of such power and such influence, whose recognitions of
right and wrong, of virtue and vice, were, in most cases, so clear and determined. He never
enlists our sympathies in favor of vice, by drawing those seductive pictures, in which it comes
so near the shape and form of virtue that the mind is puzzled as to the boundary line. He never
makes young ladies feel that they would like to marry corsairs, pirates, or sentimental villains
of any description. The most objectionable thing, perhaps, about his influence, is its sympathy
with the war spirit. A person Christianly educated can hardly read some of his descriptions
in the Lady of the Lake and Marmion without an emotion of disgust, like what is excited by
the same things in Homer; and as the world comes more and more under the influence of Christ,
it will recede more and more from this kind of literature.

Scott has been censured as being wilfully unjust to the Covenanters and Puritans. I think he
meant really to deal fairly by them, and that what he called fairness might seem rank injustice
to those brought up to venerate them, as we have been. I suppose that in Old Mortality it was
Scott's honest intention to balance the two parties about fairly, by putting on the Covenant
side his good, steady, well-behaved hero, Mr. Morton, who is just as much of a Puritan as the
Puritans would have been had they taken Sir Walter Scott's advice; that is to say, a very nice,
sensible, moral man, who takes the Puritan side because he thinks it the right side, but contemplates
all the devotional enthusiasm and religious ecstasies of his associates from a merely artistic
and pictorial point of view. The trouble was, when he got his model Puritan done, nobody ever
knew what he was meant for; and then all the young ladies voted steady Henry Morton a bore,
and went to falling in love with his Cavalier rival, Lord Evandale, and people talked as if
it was a preconcerted arrangement of Scott, to surprise the female heart, and carry it over
to the royalist side.

The fact was, in describing Evandale he made a living, effective character, because he was
describing something he had full sympathy with, and put his whole life into; but Henry Morton
is a laborious arrangement of starch and pasteboard to produce one of those supposititious,
just-right men, who are always the stupidest of mortals after they are made. As to why Scott
did not describe such a character as the martyr Duke of Argyle, or Hampden, or Sir Harry Vane,
where high birth, and noble breeding, and chivalrous sentiment were all united with intense
devotional fervor, the answer is, that he could not do it; he had not that in him wherewith
to do it; a man cannot create that of which he has not first had the elements in himself; and
devotional enthusiasm is a thing which Scott never felt. Nevertheless, I believe that he was
perfectly sincere in saying that he would, "if necessary, die a martyr for Christianity." He
had calm, firm principle to any extent, but it never was kindled into fervor. He was of too
calm and happy a temperament to sound the deepest recesses of souls torn up from their depths
by mighty conflicts and sorrows. There are souls like the "alabaster vase of ointment, very
precious," which shed no perfume of devotion because a great sorrow has never broken them.
Could Scott have been given back to the world again after the heavy discipline of life had
passed over him, he would have spoken otherwise of many things. What he vainly struggled to
say to Lockhart on his death bed would have been a new revelation, of his soul to the world,
could he have lived to unfold it in literature. But so it is: when we have learned to live,
life's purpose is answered, and we die!

This is the sum and substance of some conversations held while rambling among these scenes,
going in and out of arches, climbing into nooks and through loopholes, picking moss and ivy,
and occasionally retreating under the shadow of some arch, while the skies were indulging in
a sudden burst of emotion. The poor woman who acted as our guide, ensconcing herself in a dry
corner, stood like a literal Patience on a monument, waiting for us to be through; we were
sorry for her, but as it was our first and last chance, and she would stay there, we could
not help it.

Near by the abbey is a square, modern mansion, belonging to the Earl of Buchan, at present
untenanted. There were some black, solemn yew trees there, old enough to have told us a deal
of history had they been inclined to speak; as it was, they could only drizzle.

As we were walking through the yard, a bird broke out into a clear, sweet song.

"What bird is that?" said I.

"I think it is the mavis," said the guide. This brought up,--

  "The mavis wild, wie mony a note,
  Sings drowsy day to rest."

And also,--

  "Merry it is in wild green wood,
  When mavis and merle are singing."

A verse, by the by, dismally suggestive of contrast to this rainy day.

As we came along out of the gate, walking back towards the village of Dryburgh, we began, to
hope that the skies had fairly wept themselves out; at any rate the rain stopped, and the clouds
wore a sulky, leaden-gray aspect, as if they were thinking what to do next.

We saw a knot of respectable-looking laboring men at a little distance, conversing in a group,
and now and then stealing glances at us; one of them at last approached and inquired if this
was Mrs. Stowe, and being answered in the affirmative, they all said heartily, "Madam, ye're
right welcome to Scotland." The chief speaker, then, after a little conversation, asked our
party if we would do him the favor to step into his cottage near by, to take a little refreshment
after our ramble; to which we assented with alacrity. He led the way to a neat, stone cottage,
with a flower garden before the door, and said to a thrifty, rosy-cheeked woman, who met us,
"Well, and what do you think, wife, if I have brought Mrs. Stowe and her party to take a cup
of tea with us?"

We were soon seated in a neat, clean kitchen, and our hostess hastened to put the teakettle
over the grate, lamenting that she had not known of our coming, that she might have had a fire
"ben the house," meaning by the phrase what we Yankees mean by "in the best room." We caught
a glimpse of the carpet and paper of this room, when the door was opened to bring out a few
more chairs.

  "Belyve the bairns cam dropping in,"

rosy-cheeked, fresh from school, with satchel and school books, to whom I was introduced as
the mother of Topsy and Eva.

"Ah," said the father, "such a time as we had, when we were reading the book; whiles they were
greetin' and whiles in a rage."

My host was quite a young-looking man, with the clear blue eye and glowing complexion which
one so often meets here; and his wife, with her blooming cheeks, neat dress, and well-kept
house, was evidently one of those fully competent

  "To gar old claes look amaist as weel as new."

I inquired the ages of the several children, to which the father answered with about as much
chronological accuracy as men generally display in such points of family history. The gude
wife, after correcting his figures once or twice, turned away with a somewhat indignant exclamation
about men that didn't know their own bairns' ages, in which many of us, I presume, could sympathize.

I must not omit to say, that a neighbor of our host had been pressed to come in with us; an
intelligent-looking man, about fifty. In the course of conversation, I found that they were
both masons by trade, and as the rain had prevented their working, they had met to spend their
time in reading. They said they were reading a work on America; and thereat followed a good
deal of general conversation on our country. I found that, like many others in this old country,
they had a tie to connect them with the new--a son in America.

One of our company, in the course of the conversation, says, "They say in America that the
working classes of England and Scotland are not so well off as the slaves." The man's eye flashed.
"There are many things," he said, "about the working classes, which are not what they should
be; there's room for a great deal of improvement in our condition, but," he added with an emphasis,
"we are no slaves!" There was a, touch, of the

  "Scots wha ha' wi' Wallace bled"

about the man, as he spoke, which made the affirmation quite unnecessary.

"But," said I, "you think the affairs of the working classes much improved of late years?"

"O, certainly," said the other; "since the repeal of the corn laws and the passage of the factory
bill, and this emigration to America and Australia, affairs have been very much altered."

We asked them what they could make a day by their trade. It was much less, certainly, than
is paid for the same labor in our country; but yet the air of comfort and respectability about
the cottage, the well-clothed and well-schooled, intelligent children, spoke well for the result
of their labors.

While our conversation was carried on, the teakettle commenced singing most melodiously, and
by a mutual system of accommodation, a neat tea table was spread in the midst of us, and we
soon found ourselves seated, enjoying some delicious bread and butter, with the garniture of
cheese, preserves, and tea. Our host before the meal craved a blessing of Him who had made
of one blood all the families of the earth; a beautiful and touching allusion, I thought, between
Americans and Scotchmen. Our long ramble in the rain had given us something of an appetite,
and we did ample justice to the excellence of the cheer.

After tea we walked on down again towards the Tweed, our host and his friends waiting on us
to the boat. As we passed through the village of Dryburgh, all the inhabitants of the cottages
seemed to be standing in their doors, bowing and smiling, and expressing their welcome in a
gentle, kindly way, that was quite touching.

As we were walking towards the Tweed, the Eildon Hill, with its three points, rose before us
in the horizon. I thought of the words in the Lay of the Last Minstrel:--

  "Warrior, I could say to thee,
  The words that cleft Eildon Hill in three,
  And bridled the Tweed with a curb of stone."

I appealed to my friends if they knew any thing about the tradition; I thought they seemed
rather reluctant to speak of it. O, there was some foolish story, they believed; they did not
well know what it was.

The picturesque age of human childhood is gone by; men and women cannot always be so accommodating
as to believe unreasonable stories for the convenience of poets.

At the Tweed the man with the skiff was waiting for us. In parting with my friend, I said,
"Farewell. I hope we may meet again some time."

"I am sure we shall, madam," said he; "if not here, certainly hereafter."

After being rowed across I stopped a few moments to admire the rippling of the clear water
over the pebbles. "I want some of these pebbles of the Tweed," I said, "to carry home to America."
Two hearty, rosy-cheeked Scotch lasses on the shore soon supplied me with as many as I could carry.

We got into our carriage, and drove up to Melrose. After a little negotiation with the keeper,
the doors were unlocked. Just at that moment the sun was so gracious as to give a full look
through the windows, and touch with streaks of gold the green, grassy floor; for the beautiful
ruin is floored with green grass and roofed with sky: even poetry has not exaggerated its beauty,
and could not. There is never any end to the charms of Gothic architecture. It is like the
beauty of Cleopatra,--

  "Age cannot wither, custom, cannot stale
  Her infinite variety."

Here is this Melrose, now, which has been berhymed, bedraggled through infinite guide books,
and been gaped at and smoked at by dandies, and been called a "dear love" by pretty young ladies,
and been hawked about as a trade article in all neighboring shops, and you know perfectly well
that all your raptures are spoken for and expected at the door, and your going off in an ecstasy
is a regular part of the programme; and yet, after all, the sad, wild, sweet beauty of the
thing comes down on one like a cloud; even for the sake of being original you could not, in
conscience, declare you did not admire it.

We went into a minute examination with our guide, a young man, who seemed to have a full sense
of its peculiar beauties. I must say here, that Walter Scott's description in the Lay of the
Last Minstrel is as perfect in most details as if it had been written by an architect as well
as a poet--it is a kind of glorified daguerreotype.

This building was the first of the elaborate and fanciful Gothic which I had seen, and is said
to excel in the delicacy of its carving any except Roslin Castle. As a specimen of the exactness
of Scott's description, take this verse, where he speaks of the cloisters:--

  "Spreading herbs and flowerets bright,
  Glistened with the dew of night,
  Nor herb nor floweret glistened there,
  But were carved in the cloister arches as fair."

These cloisters were covered porticoes surrounding the garden, where the monks walked for exercise.
They are now mostly destroyed, but our guide showed us the remains of exquisite carvings there,
in which each group was an imitation of some leaf or flower, such as the curly kail of Scotland;
a leaf, by the by, as worthy of imitation as the Greek acanthus, the trefoil oak, and some
other leaves, the names of which I do not remember. These Gothic artificers were lovers of
nature; they studied at the fountain head; hence the never-dying freshness, variety, and originality
of their conceptions.

Another passage, whose architectural accuracy you feel at once, is this:--

  "They entered now the chancel tall;
  The darkened, roof rose high, aloof
  On pillars lofty, light, and small:
  The keystone that locked, each ribbed aisle
  Was a fleur-de-lis, or a quatre-feuille;
  The corbels were carved grotesque and grim;
  And the pillars, with, clustered shafts so trim,
  With, base and with capital flourished around,
  Seemed bundles of lances which garlands had bound."

The quatre-feuille here spoken of is an ornament formed by the junction of four leaves. The
frequent recurrence of the fleur-de-lis in the carvings here shows traces of French hands employed
in the architecture. In one place in the abbey there is a rude inscription, in which a French
architect commemorates the part he has borne in constructing the building.

These corbels are the projections from which, the arches spring, usually carved in some fantastic
mask or face; and on these the Shakspearian imagination of the Gothic artists seems to have
let itself loose to run riot: there is every variety of expression, from, the most beautiful
to the most goblin and grotesque. One has the leer of fiendish triumph, with budding horns,
showing too plainly his paternity; again you have the drooping eyelids and saintly features
of some fair virgin; and then the gasping face of some old monk, apparently in the agonies
of death, with his toothless gums, hollow cheeks, and sunken eyes. Other faces have an earthly
and sensual leer; some are wrought into expressions of scorn and mockery, some of supplicating
agony, and some of grim, despair.

One wonders what gloomy, sarcastic, poetic, passionate mind has thus amused itself, recording
in stone all the range of passions--saintly, earthly, and diabolic--on the varying human face.
One fancies each corbel to have had its history, its archetype in nature; a thousand possible
stories spring into one's mind. They are wrought with such a startling and individual definiteness,
that one feels as about Shakspeare's characters, as if they must have had a counterpart in
real existence. The pure, saintly nun may have been some sister, or some daughter, or some
early love, of the artist, who in an evil hour saw the convent barriers rise between her and
all that was loving. The fat, sensual face may have been a sly sarcasm on some worthy abbot,
more eminent in flesh than spirit. The fiendish faces may have been wrought out of the author's
own perturbed dreams.

