"Harm?" Fenwick shouted. "What harm could I do the man? Didn't I tell you just now that I want
him to do me a service? One does not generally ill-treat those who are in a position to bestow
favors. Now sit down like the good girl that you are, and write that letter at once. Then you
can go to bed."

"I will write it in the morning," Vera said. "Surely there cannot be all this desperate hurry.
If the letter is written before the post goes out tomorrow afternoon it will be in good time.
I am much too tired to do it now."

Just for a moment Fenwick's eyes blazed angrily again. It seemed to Vera that the man was about
to burst forth into a storm of passion. The hot words did not come, however, for Fenwick restrained
himself. Perhaps he was afraid of going a little too far; perhaps he was afraid of arousing
Vera's suspicions, and thus defeating his own object by a refusal on her part to write the
letter. He knew from past experience that she could be as firm of purpose as himself if she chose.

"Very well," he said, with an almost grotesque attempt at good-humor. "You look very tired
tonight, and I daresay you have had a fatiguing journey--and, after all, there is no great
hurry. I will show you up to the room which I have set apart for your use."

Vera was only too glad to get away. Despite her strange surroundings, and despite the sense
of coming danger, she threw herself on the bed and slept the sleep of utter exhaustion. It
was getting towards noon before she came back to herself, invigorated and refreshed by her
long rest.

So far as the girl could see, there were no servants in the house at present besides an old
retainer of the family and her husband. Fenwick had made some excuse about the staff of domestics
who were to follow later on; but up to now he only had about him the men whom Vera had known
more or less well for the last two years. The meals appeared to be served in a remarkably irregular
fashion; even the lunch was partaken of hurriedly by Fenwick, who pleaded the pressure of business.

"I can't stop a minute," he said. "I have more to do now than I can manage. I should just like
to have a look at that letter that you have written to Zary. There is no excuse for not doing
it now, and I want to put it in the post-bag."

"Very well," Vera said serenely. "If you will come with me to the library you will see exactly
what I write. I know you are a suspicious man and that you don't trust anybody, therefore I
shall be very glad for you to know that I have carried out your request to the letter."

Fenwick laughed as if something had pleased him. Nevertheless, he looked over Vera's shoulder
until she had penned the last word. She slowly folded up the communication and sealed it.

"How am I to address the envelope?" she said. "I have not the slightest idea where Zary is
to be found. For all I know to the contrary, he may not even be in England."

"Oh, yes, he is," Fenwick chuckled. "He is in London at the present moment. If you address
that letter, 17, Paradise Street, Camberwell, Zary will be in receipt of it to-morrow morning."

Vera wrote the address boldly and firmly, and handed the letter with more or less contempt
to her companion. She wanted him to feel that she held his suspicions with scorn. She wanted
him to know that so far as she was concerned here was an end of the matter. Nevertheless, she
followed him carelessly from the room and saw him place the letter, together with others, on
the hall table. A moment later he had vanished, and she was left alone to act promptly. She
did not hesitate for a moment; she made her way back to the drawing-room and addressed a second
envelope to the house in Paradise Street, into which envelope she slipped a blank sheet of
notepaper. Then she stamped the envelope and made her way back cautiously to the hall. There
was a chance of being discovered, a chance that she was being watched, but she had to run the
risk of that. She was crossing the hall freely and carelessly now, and so contrived as to sweep
the mass of letters with her sleeve to the floor, exclaiming at her own clumsiness as she did
so. Like a flash she picked out the one letter that she needed and swiftly exchanged it for
the other. A moment later she was out of doors, with the dangerous communication in her pocket.

So far as she could see, she had succeeded beyond her wildest expectations. It was only a simple
ruse, but like most simple things, generally successful. Vera was trembling from head to foot
now, but the fresh air of the park and the broad, beautiful solitude of it soothed her jarred
nerves, and brought back a more contented frame of mind. Her spirits rose as she walked along.

"I am glad I did that," she told herself, "I may be mistaken, but I firmly believe that I have
saved Zary's life. Had he come down here he would never have left the place again. And yet
there is danger for him still, and I must warn him of it. I must manage to communicate in some
way with Gerald. I wonder if it would be safe to send him a telegram from the village. I wonder,
too, in what direction the village lies. Still, I have all the afternoon before me, and a brisk
walk will do me good."

With a firm, elastic step, Vera walked across the grass in the direction of a wood, beyond
which she could see the slope of the high road. She had hardly entered the wood before she
heard a voice calling her name, and to her intense delight she turned to find herself face
to face with Venner.

"Oh, this is glorious," she said, as she placed both her hands in his. "But do you think that
it is quite safe for you to come here so soon? For all I know, I may be followed.

"I don't think so," Venner said. "Now let me take you in my arms and kiss you. Let us sit down
here in this snug corner and try to imagine that we are back in the happy days when no cloud
loomed between us, and we were looking forward to many joyous years together. We will talk
mundane matters presently."

Vera yielded to the ecstasy of the moment. Everything was so dark and melancholy that it seemed
a sin to lose a gleam of sunshine like this. But the time crept on and the November sun was
sinking, and it was borne in upon Vera that she must get back to the house again. Very gently,
she disengaged herself from Venner's embrace.

"We must be really practical now," she said. "Tell me what has happened since I left the hotel
last night?"

"So far as I can see, nothing," Venner replied. "I asked for you this morning, and to my surprise
I found that you had vanished in the dead of the night with a mysterious chauffeur and a Mercedes
car. By great good luck I found a policeman who had made a note of the number of the car; after
which I went to the makers, or rather the agents of the makers, and it was quite easy to find
out that the Mercedes in question had recently been delivered to Mr. Mark Fenwick's order at
Merton Grange near Canterbury. After that, you will not be surprised to find that I came down
here as soon as possible, and that I have been hiding here with a pair of field-glasses trying
to get a glimpse of you."

"That was very interesting," Vera laughed. "But tell me about my sister. I am so anxious over her."

"No reason to be," said Venner. "I have seen to that. She has gone back to your brother."

"Oh, I am so glad. Now listen to me carefully."

She went on with some detail to tell the story of her last night's experiences. She spoke of
Felix Zary and the letter which she had been more or less compelled to write to him. Also,
she described the ruse by which the letter had been regained.

"Now you must go and see this Zary," she said. "Tell him that you come from me, and tell him
all about the letter. Mind, he must reply to my letter just as if it had reached him in the
ordinary way through the post, because, as you see, I shall have to show the answer to Mr.
Fenwick, and I want to lull his suspicions to rest entirely. You may find Zary a little awkward
at first."

"I don't think I shall," Venner smiled. "In fact, he and I are already acquainted. But I am
not going to tell you anything about that; you prefer to keep your secrets as far as I am concerned,
and I am going to guard mine for the present. I am working to put an end to all this mystery
and bother, and I am going to do it my own way. Anyway, I will see Zary for you and tell him
exactly what has happened. In fact, I will go to town this evening for the express purpose.
Then I will come back in the morning and meet you here the same time to-morrow afternoon."

They parted at that, and Vera made her way back to the house. She saw that the letters were
no longer on the hall table, and therefore she concluded that they had been posted. She assumed
a quiet, dignified manner during the rest of the evening. She treated Fenwick more or less
distantly, as if she were still offended with his suspicions. Fenwick, on the other hand, was
more than usually amiable. Something had evidently pleased him, and he appeared to be doing
his best to wipe out the unpleasant impression of the morning. Vera felt quite easy in her
mind now; she knew that her ruse had been absolutely successful. All the same, she ignored
Fenwick's request of a little music, professing to be exceedingly tired, which, indeed, was
no more than the truth.

"I am going to bed quite early to-night," she said. "I have been sleeping very indifferently
of late."

It was barely ten before she was in her room, and there she lay, oblivious of all that was
taking place around her, till she woke presently with an idea that she could hear the sound
of hammering close by. As she sat up in bed with all her senses about her, she could hear the
great stable clock strike the hour of three. Her ears had not deceived her; the sound of metal
meeting metal in a kind of musical chink came distinct and clear. Then from somewhere near
she could hear voices. The thing was very strange, seeing that Fenwick was a business man pure
and simple, and that he had never confessed to any knowledge of mechanics. It came back to
her mind now, that directly she had entered the house Fenwick had greeted her in a suit of
blue overalls which she understood men who followed mechanical pursuits generally wore. She
recollected, too, that his hands were black and grimy. What could be going on, and why had
she seen nothing of this during the day-time? She could comprehend men sitting up all night
and working in a factory, but surely there could be no occasion for a thing like this in a
private house, unless, perhaps, Fenwick and his satellites were engaged in some pursuit that
needed careful concealment from the eyes of the law.

It would be well, perhaps, Vera thought, if she could find out what was going on. The discovery
might be the means of putting another weapon into her hands. She rose from her bed and partially
dressed herself. Then, with a pair of slippers on her feet and a dark wrap round her shoulders,
she stole into the corridor. A dim light was burning there, so that she had no fear of being
discovered, especially as the walls were draped with tapestry, and here and there armored figures
stood, which afforded a capital means of concealment. As Vera sidled along she noticed that
at the end of the corridor was a small room down a flight of steps. From where she stood she
could see into the room, the door of which was open. Fenwick stood there apparently engaged
in superintending the melting of metal in a crucible over a fire, which was driven to white
heat by a pair of bellows. The rest of his gang seemed to be doing something on an iron table
with moulds and discs. Vera could see the gleam of yellow metal, then somebody closed the door
of the room and she could learn no more. It was all very strange and mysterious, and there
was a furtive air about it which did not suggest honesty of purpose. There was nothing more
for it now except for Vera to return to her room, with a determination to see the inside of
that little apartment the first time that the coast was clear.

She hurried along back to her own room, and had almost succeeded in reaching it, when she came
face to face with a man who had stepped out of a doorway so suddenly that the two figures came
almost in contact. A fraction of a second later a hand was laid over Vera's mouth, while another
grasped her wrist; then she saw that the intruder had been joined by a companion.

"Please don't say a word, miss; and, whatever you do, don't call out," one of the men whispered.
"We know all about you and who you are. Believe me, we are here to do you the greatest service
in our power. My colleague will tell you the same."

"But who are you?" Vera asked, as the man removed his hand from her mouth. Her courage had
come back to her now. "Why do you come in this fashion?"

"My name is Egan," the stranger said, "and this is my companion, Grady. We are New York detectives,
over here on important business. The man we are after is Mark Fenwick."

CHAPTER XIX

PHANTOM GOLD

Vera had entirely recovered her self-possession by this time. She was able to regard the men
coolly and critically. There was nothing about them that suggested anything wrong or underhand;
on the contrary, the girl rather liked their appearance. All the same it was a strange and
unique experience; and though Vera had been through a series of trials and tribulations, she
thrilled now as she recognised how near she had been to the man who was thus running himself
into the hands of justice.

"But how can you know anything about me?" she said. "You surely do not mean to say that you
suspect--"

"Not at all, miss," Egan said, civilly. "Only, you see, it is always our business to know a
great deal more than people imagine. I hope you won't suppose that we are going to take any
advantage of our position here, or that we want you to betray Mr. Fenwick into our hands; but
since we have been unfortunate enough to be discovered by you, we will ask you to go so far
as to say nothing to Mr. Fenwick. If you tell him, you will be doing considerable harm to a
great many deserving people who have suffered terribly at that man's hands. I think you understand."

Vera understood only too well, and yet her delicate sense of honor was slightly disturbed at
the idea of continuing there without warning Fenwick of the danger that overshadowed him. Personally,
she would have liked to have told him exactly how he stood, and given him the opportunity to
get away. Perhaps Egan saw something of this in Vera's face, for he went on to speak again.

"I know it isn't very nice for you, miss," he said, "and I am not surprised to see you hesitate;
but seeing that Mr. Fenwick has done you as much harm as anybody else--"

"How do you know that?" Vera exclaimed.

"Well, you see, it is our business to know everything. I feel quite certain that on reflection
you will do nothing to defeat the ends of justice."

"No," Vera said, thoughtfully. "In any case, it cannot much matter. You are here to arrest
Mr. Fenwick, and you probably know where he is to be found at the present moment."

"There you are wrong, miss," Grady said. "We are not in a position at present to lay hands
on our man. We came here prepared to take a few risks--but I don't suppose you would care to
hear anything about our methods. It will be a great favor to us if you will retire to your
room and stay there till morning."

Vera went off without any further ado, feeling that once more the current of events had come
between her and the sleep that she so sorely needed. But, in spite of everything, she had youth
and health on her side, and within a few minutes she was fast asleep. It was fairly late when
she came down the next morning, and she was rather surprised to find that Fenwick had not finished
his breakfast. He sat there sullen and heavy-eyed, and had no more than a grunt for Vera in
response to her morning greeting. He turned over his food with savage disapproval. Evidently,
from the look of him, he had not only been up late overnight, but he had also had more wine
than was good for him.

"Who can eat rubbish like this?" he growled. "The stuff isn't fit to feed a dog with. Look
at this bacon."

"You can expect nothing else," Vera said, coldly. "If you choose to try and run a large house
like this with practically no servants beyond a caretaker and his wife, you must put up with
the consequences. You are an exceedingly clever man, but you seem to have overlooked one fact,
and that is the amount of gossip you are providing for the neighbors. It isn't as if we were
still in town, where the man next door knows nothing of you and cares less. Here people are
interested in their neighbors. It will cause quite a scandal when it becomes known that you
are occupying Lord Merton's house with nothing more than a number of questionable men. As far
as I can see, you are far worse off here than if you had stayed in London. I may be wrong,
of course."

"I begin to think you are quite right," Fenwick grunted. "I must see to this. It will never
do for all these chattering magpies to pry into my business. You had better go into Canterbury
this morning and see if you can't arrange for a proper staff of servants to come. Well, what's
the matter now?"

One of the men had come into the room with a telegram in his hand. He pitched it in a contemptuous
way upon the table and withdrew, whistling unconcernedly. The man's manner was so flippant
and familiar that Vera flushed with annoyance.

"I wish you would keep your subordinates a little more under your control," she said. "One
hardly expects a man of your wealth to be treated in this way by his clerks."

But Fenwick was not listening. His brows were knotted in a sullen frown over the telegram that
he held in his hand. He clutched the flimsy paper and threw it with a passionate gesture into
the fire. Vera could see that his yellow face had grown strangely white, and that his coarse
lips were trembling. He rose from the table, pushing his plate away from him.

"I've got to go to town at once," he said. "How strange it is that everything seems to have
gone wrong of late! I shall be back again in time for dinner, and I shall be glad if you are
good enough to see that I have something fit to eat. Perhaps you had better telephone to town
for some servants. It doesn't much matter what you pay them as long as they are good."

Fenwick walked rapidly from the room, and a few moments later Vera could see his car moving
swiftly down the drive. On the whole, she was not sorry to have Fenwick out of the house. She
was pleased, also, to know that he had made up his mind over the servant question. Already
the house was beginning to look shabby and neglected; in the strong morning sunshine Vera could
see the dust lying everywhere. Her womanly instincts rebelled against this condition of things;
she was not satisfied until she had set the telephone in motion and settled the matter as far
as the domestic staff was concerned.

Then a sudden thought flashed into her mind. Here was the opportunity for examining the little
room where Fenwick and his satellites had been busy the previous evening. Vera had not failed
to notice the fact that three of the men had gone off with Fenwick in his car, so that, in
all probability, they meant to accompany him to town. If this turned out to be correct, then
there was only one man to be accounted for. Possibly with the assistance of Gerald, the fourth
man might be got out of the way.

It was nearly three o'clock in the afternoon before Vera managed to see her husband. Eagerly
and rapidly she told him all that had taken place the previous evening, though she was rather
surprised to find him manifesting less astonishment than she had expected. Venner smiled when
Vera mentioned this.

"Oh, that's no new thing to me," he said. "I saw all that going on in your suite of rooms at
the Great Empire Hotel, though I haven't the least notion what it all means. I should have
thought that your interesting guardian was manufacturing counterfeit coins. But we managed
to get hold of one of them, and a jeweller pronounced at once that it was a genuine sovereign.
Still, there is no question of the fact that some underhand business is going on, and I am
quite ready to assist you in finding out what it is. The point is whether the coast is clear
or not."

"There is only one man left behind." Vera explained. "All the rest have gone to London with
Mr. Fenwick, who received a most disturbing telegram at breakfast this morning. Of course,
the old caretaker and his wife count for nothing; they are quite innocent parties, and merely
regard their stay here as temporary, pending the arrival of our staff of servants."

"In that case, I don't see why it shouldn't be managed," Venner said. "You had better go back
to the house, and I will call and see you. There is not the slightest reason why I shouldn't
give my own name, nor is there the slightest reason why you should not show me over the house
when I come. I daresay all this sounds a bit cheap, but one cannot be too careful in dealing
with these people."

It was all arranged exactly as Venner had suggested, and a little later Vera was shaking hands
with her own husband as if he were a perfect stranger. They proceeded presently to walk up
the grand staircase and along the corridor, Vera doing the honors of the place and speaking
in a manner calculated to deceive anybody who was listening. She stopped presently and clutched
Venner's arm excitedly. She pointed to a doorway leading to a little room down the steps at
the end of the corridor.

"There," she whispered, "that is the room, and, as far as I can see, it is absolutely empty.
What do you say to going in there now? The coast seems to be quite clear."

Venner hesitated for a moment; it would be just as well, he thought, to err on the side of
caution. A casual glance from the corridor disclosed nothing, except that on the table there
stood a bottle apparently containing wine, for a glass of some dark ruby liquid stood beside
it. Very rapidly Venner ran down the flight of stairs and looked into the room.

"There is nobody there for the moment," he said, "but that bulldog of Fenwick's can't be far
off, for there is a half-smoked cigarette on the end of the table which has not yet gone out.
I think I can see my way now to working this thing without any trouble or danger. Do you happen
to know if that rheumatic old caretaker uses snuff?"

"Really, I don't," Vera said with a smile. "But what possible connection is there between the
caretaker and his snuff--?"

"Never mind about that at present. Go down and ask the old man for his snuff box. By the look
of him, I am quite sure he indulges in the habit. Tell him you want to kill some insects in
the conservatory. Tell him anything, so long as you get possession of the box for a few minutes."

