 The bottom
of the crater, which, as nearly as could be estimated, is about 2,500 feet below the summit
of the mountain, and contains about forty-five or fifty acres, may be said to be divided into
three parts: the lowest side (to the south) consists of a large pond or lake, formed entirely
by the rain-water collected from the sides of the crater--accordingly its extent is greater
or less, as the season is wet or dry; the centre part is covered with small ferns, palms, and
shrubs, and some curious species of moss; the upper part, to the north, is that which is called
the Soufriere. The ground here consists of large beds of pipe-clay, in some places perfectly
white, in others of a bluish or black colour, from the presence of iron pyrites. These are
intermixed with masses and irregular beds of gray cinders and score, pumice, various kinds
of lava, lithomarge, and fuller's earth. Amidst these beds of clay there are several hot springs,
small, but boiling with much violence, and emitting large quantities of steam. A rumbling noise
is heard under the whole of this part of the crater. The hot springs are not stationary, but
suddenly disappear, and burst up in another place. The ground in many parts is too hot to be
walked upon: a great quantity of sulphuretted hydrogen gas is likewise emitted, which is exceedingly
disagreeable to the smell; and occasionally such a volume of it arises, as is almost suffocating,
and resembles much the smell of rotten eggs. The watches of the writer and his companion during
his visit, and every article of gold or silver about their persons, were in a few moments turned
perfectly black, from the effect of this gas.

Brande's Journal.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS & CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROYAL LIFE IN PERSIA.

The religious duties of the king of Persia require him to rise early. As he sleeps in the interior
apartments, which no male is allowed to approach, his attendants are either females or eunuchs.
After he is dressed with their aid, he sits for an hour or two in the hall of the haram, where
his levees are conducted with the same ceremony as in his outer apartments. Female officers
arrange the crowd of his wives and slaves with the strictest attention to the order of precedency.
After hearing the reports of the persons intrusted with the internal government of the haram,
and consulting with his principal wives, who are generally seated, the monarch leaves the interior
apartments. The moment he comes out, he is met by officers in waiting, and proceeds to one
of his private halls, where he is immediately joined by some of his principal favourites, and
enters into familiar conversation with them: all the young princes of the blood attend this
morning levee, to pay their respects. After this is over, he calls for breakfast. The preparing
his meals is superintended by the nauzir, or chief steward of the household. The viands are
put into dishes of fine china, with silver covers, and placed in a close tray, which is locked
and sealed by the steward. This tray is covered with a rich shawl, and carried to the king,
when the steward breaks the seal, and places the dishes before him. Some of the infant princes
are generally present, and partake in this repast. The chief physician is invariably in attendance
at every meal. His presence is deemed necessary, the courtiers say, that he may prescribe an
instant remedy, if any thing should disagree with the monarch; but this precaution, no doubt,
owes its origin to that suspicion which is continually haunting the minds of such as exercise
despotic power. When his public duties are performed, he usually retires to the haram, where
he sometimes indulges in a short repose. Some time before sunset he always makes his appearance
in the outer apartments, and either again attends to public business or takes a ride. His dinner
is brought between eight and nine, with the same precautions and ceremonies as at breakfast.
He eats, like his subjects, seated upon a carpet, and the dishes are placed on a rich embroidered
cloth, spread for the occasion. Some of the former kings used to indulge openly in drinking
wine; but none of the reigning family have yet outraged the religious feelings of their subjects
by so flagrant a violation of the laws of Mahomed. Bowls filled with sherbet, made of every
species of fruit, furnish the beverage of the royal meals; and there are few countries where
more pains are bestowed to gratify the palate with the most delicate viands. After dinner,
the king retires to the interior apartments, where it is said that he is often amused till
a late hour by the singers and dancers of his haram. It is impossible, however, to speak of
his occupations after he passes the threshold of his inner palace. He is there surrounded by
a scene calculated, beyond all others, to debase and degrade the human character.

The harams are governed by the strictest discipline; and this must be necessary to preserve
the peace of a community, where the arrogance of power, the pride of birth, the ties of kindred,
the intrigues of art, and the pretensions of beauty, are in constant collision. The usual routine
of the king's life is often interrupted by urgent public affairs, and sometimes by amusement.
The reigning family has hitherto disdained those enervating and luxurious habits which led
the last Seffavean monarchs to confine themselves to their harams. They not only attend personally
to public business, but are continually practising manly exercises, and engage in field sports
with all the ardour of a race who cherish the habits of their Tartar ancestors. The present
king is an expert marksman and an excellent horseman; few weeks pass without his partaking
in the pleasures of the chase. The king has always a historiographer and a chief poet. The
one writes the annals of his reign; the other, who has a high rank at court, composes odes
in his praise, and, with grateful ardour, celebrates the munificence of his patron. A giant
and a dwarf were at one period of the present reign part of the royal establishment; and it
is never without a jester, who enjoys an extraordinary latitude of speech, and, both in his
dress and manner, assumes the habit and appearance of folly. It is usual to laugh at the witticisms
of these jesters, even when they are the most severe; and the sovereign himself respects their
privilege. The tribe to which Kerreem Khan belonged, speak a language which, from its rudeness,
is denominated "the barbarous dialect." As this prince was one day sitting in public, he commanded
his jester to go and bring him word what a dog, that was barking very loud, wanted. The courtiers
smiled at this sally of their monarch. The jester went, and, after appearing to listen for
some time with profound attention, returned, and said, with a grave air, "Your majesty must
send one of the chief officers of your own family to report what that gentleman says: he speaks
no language except "the barbarous dialect," with which they are familiar, but of which I do
not understand one word." The good-humoured monarch laughed heartily at this jest, and gave
the wit a present. This anecdote, to which many similar might be added, shows that there is
little difference between the office of jester at the modern court of Persia, and that which
some centuries ago existed at every court in Europe. A resemblance even in trifling forms merits
attention, as it may lead to conclusions on the progress of knowledge and the condition of
society; and from the character of their amusements, we may perhaps judge as correctly as from
their more serious occupations, of the degree of civilization which a people has attained.
In the court there is always a person who bears the name of "story-teller to his majesty;"
and the duties of his office require a man of no mean acquirements. Though passionately fond
of public exhibitions, the Persians have none that deserve the name of theatrical entertainments;
but though strangers to the regular drama, their stories are often dramatic; and those whose
occupation is to tell them, sometimes display so extraordinary a skill, and such varied powers,
that we can hardly believe, while we look on their altered countenances and listen to their
changed tones, that it is the same person, who at one moment tells a plain narrative in his
natural voice, then speaks in the hoarse and angry tone of offended authority, and next subdues
the passions he has excited by the softest sounds of feminine tenderness. The art of relating
stories is attended both with profit and reputation. Great numbers attempt it, but few succeed.

The person whose office it is to amuse his majesty with these stories is always in attendance.
It is equally his duty to beguile the fatigue of a long march, and to soothe the mind when
disturbed by the toils of public affairs; and his tales are artfully made to suit the disposition
and momentary humour of the monarch. Sometimes he recites a story of the genii; at others he
speaks of the warlike deeds of former sovereigns, or of the love of some wandering prince.
Often the story is of coarser materials, and the king is entertained with low and obscene adventures.
In no court is more rigid attention paid to ceremony. Looks, words, the motions of the body,
are all regulated by the strictest forms. When the king is seated in public, his sons, ministers,
and courtiers, stand erect, with their hands crossed, and in the exact place belonging to their
rank. They watch his looks, and a glance is a command. If he speaks to them, you hear a voice
reply, and see the lips move, but not a motion or gesture betrays that there is animation in
any other part of the frame. The monarch often speaks in the third person: "The king is pleased,"
"The king commands." His ministers usually style him "The object of the world's regard." They
are as particular in forms of speech as in other ceremonies; and superiority and inferiority
of rank, in all their gradations, are implied by the terms used in the commonest conversations.

Sir J. Malcolm's History of Persia.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COSMOPOLITE.

       *       *       *       *       *

