There are at least two Blake houses now in existence, who are probably of the blood of the
illustrious admiral; the Blakes of Bishop's Hall, near Taunton, of which William Blake, Esq.,
a magistrate for the county, is the head; and the Blakes of Venue House, Upton, near Wiveliscombe,
the representative of which is Silas Wood Blake, son of Dr. William Blake, a bencher of the
Inner Temple. These families possess many relics of the admiral--family papers, cabinets, portrait,
and even estates; and that they are of his blood there are other reasons for believing; but,
so far as I know, the line is not clearly traced back. In a funeral sermon spoken on the death
of the grandfather of the present William Blake, Esq., of Bishop's Hall, I find it stated that--

    "He was descended from pious and worthy ancestors; a collateral branch
    of the family of that virtuous man, great officer, and true patriot,
    Admiral Blake. His grandfather, the Rev. Malachi Blake, a Nonconformist
    minister, resided at Blogden, four miles from Taunton. This gentleman,
    by his pious labours, laid the foundation of the dissenting
    congregation at Wellington, in the county of Somerset. After the defeat
    of the Duke of Monmouth, to whose cause he had been friendly, he was
    obliged to flee from home, and went to London disguised in a lay-dress,
    with a tye-wig and a sword."

This minister had three sons, John, Malachi, and William; and it is from the last named that
the Blakes of Bishop's Hall are descended. But who was the father of Malachi Blake himself?
He was probably a son or grandson of one of the admiral's brothers--but of which?

Permit me to add to this Query another remark. I am engaged in writing a Life of Admiral Blake,
and shall be extremely grateful to any of your correspondents who can and will direct me, either
through the medium of your columns or by private communication, to any new sources of information
respecting his character and career. A meagre pamphlet being the utmost that has yet been given
to the memory of this great man, the entire story of his life has to be built up from the beginning.
Fragments of papers, scraps of information, however slight, may therefore be of material value.
A date or a name may contain an important clue, and will be thankfully acknowledged. Of course
I do not wish to be referred to information contained in well-known collections, such as Thurloe,
Rushworth, Whitelock, and the Parliamentary Histories, nor to the Deptford MSS. in the Tower,
the Admiralty papers in the State Paper Office, or the Ashmole MSS. at Oxford. I am also acquainted,
of course, with several papers in the national collection of MSS. at the British Museum throwing
light on the subject; but while these MSS. remain in their present state, it would be very
rash in any man to say what is not to be found in them. Should any one, in reading for his
own purposes, stumble on a fact of importance for me in these MSS., I shall be grateful for
a communication; but my appeal is rather made to the possessors of old family papers. There
must, I think, be many letters--though he was a brief and abrupt correspondent--of the admiral's
still existing in the archives of old Puritan families. These are the materials of history
of which I am most in need.

HEPWORTH DIXON.

84. St. John's Wood Terrace.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

John Holywood the Mathematician.--Is the birthplace of this distinguished scholar known? Leland,
Bale, and Pits assert him to have been born at Halifax, in Yorkshire; Stanyhurst says, at Holywood,
near Dublin; and according to Dempster and Mackenzie, at Nithsdale, in Scotland.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

Essay on the Irony of Sophocles, &c.--Who is the author of the Essay on the Irony of Sophocles,
which has been termed the most exquisite piece of criticism in the English language?

Is it Cicero who says,

    "Malo cum Platone errare, quam cum aliis rectè sentire?"

And who embodied the somewhat contradictory maxim,--

    "Amicus Plato, sed magis amica veritas?"

NEMO.

Meaning of Mosaic.--What is the exact meaning and derivation of the word Mosaic as a term in art?

H. M. A.

{390}

Stanedge Pole.--Can any one inform me in what part of Yorkshire the antiquarian remains of
Stanedge Pole are situated; and where the description of them is to be found?

A. N.

Names of the Ferret.--I should be much obliged by any one of your readers informing me what
peculiar names are given to the male and female ferret? Do they occur any where in any author?
as by knowing how the words are spelt, we may arrive at their etymology.

T. LAWRENCE.

Ashby-de-la-Zouch.

Colfabias.--Can any of your learned correspondents furnish the origin and meaning of this word?
It was the name of the privy attached to the Priory of Holy Trinity in Dublin; and still is
to be seen in old leases of that religious house (now Christ Church Cathedral), spelled sometimes
as above, and other times coolfabioos.

The present dean and chapter are quite in the dark upon the subject. I hope you will be able
to give us a little light from your general stock.

A CH. CH. MAN.

Dublin.

School of the Heart.--This work consists of short poems similar in character and merit to Quarles's
Emblems, and adorned with cuts of the same class. I have at hand none but modern editions,
and in these the production is ascribed to Quarles. But Montgomery, in his Christian Poet,
quotes the School of the Heart, without explanation, as the work of Thomas Harvey, 1647. Can
any of your readers throw light on this matter?

S. T. D.

Milton and the Calves-head Club.--I quote the following from The Secret History of the Calves-head
Club: or the Republican Unmasqu'd, 4to., 1703. The author is relating what was told him by
"a certain active Whigg, who, in all other respects, was a man of probity enough."

    "He further told me that Milton, and some other creatures of the
    Commonwealth, had instituted this Club [the Calves-head Club], as he
    was inform'd, in opposition to Bp. Juxon, Dr. Sanderson, Dr. Hammond,
    and other divines of the Church of England, who met privately every
    30th of January; and though it was under the Time of Usurpation, had
    compil'd a private Form of Service for the Day, not much different from
    what we now find in the Liturgy."

Do any of Milton's biographers mention his connexion with this club? Does the form of prayer
compiled by Juxon, Sanderson, and Hammond exist?

K. P. D. E.

David Rizzio's Signature.--Can any reader of "NOTES AND QUERIES" furnish the applicant with
either a fac-simile or a minute description of the signature and handwriting of David Rizzio?
The application is made in order to the verification of a most remarkable alleged instance
of clairvoyance, recorded at large in a volume on that and its kindred subjects just published
by Dr. Gregory of Edinburgh.

F. K.

Lambert Simnel--Was this his real Name?--It occurs to me that we are not in possession of the
real name of Lambert Simnel, the famous claimant of the crown of England. We are told that
he was the son of a baker; and we learn from Johnson's Dictionary that the word "simnel" signified
a kind of sweet-bread or cake. Now, considering the uncertainty and mutability of surnames
in former times, I am led to suspect that "Simnel" may have been a nickname first applied to
his father, in allusion to his trade; and I am strengthened in my suspicion by not finding
any such name as "Simnel" in any index of ancient names. Could any of your correspondents throw
light on this question, or tell whether Lambert left any posterity?

T.

Honor of Clare, Norfolk.--I have seen a letter, dated about 1702, in the possession of a gentleman
of this town, which alludes "To His Majesty's Honor of Clare;" and I shall feel obliged if
any of your correspondents can render me any information as to whether there are any documents
relative to this "Honor" in existence: and if so, where they are to be met with? for I much
wish to be informed what fragments were made from South Green (a part of this town), which
was held of the above mentioned "Honor," and by whom made; and further, who is the collector
of them at this period?

J. N. C.

Sponge.--When was the sponge of commerce first known in England?

THUDT.

Babington's Conspiracy.--Miss Strickland, in her life of Queen Elizabeth (Lives of the Queens
of England, vol. vii. p. 33.), after describing the particulars of this plot, adds in a Note,--

    "After his condemnation, Babington wrote a piteous letter of
    supplication to Elizabeth, imploring her mercy for the sake of his wife
    and children."--Rawlinson MSS., Oxford, vol. 1340. No. 55. f. 19.

A copy of a letter to which the description given by Miss Strickland would apply, has been
lately found among some papers originally belonging to Lord Burleigh; and it would be very
desirable to compare it with the letter said to be in the Rawlinson collection. I have, however,
authority for saying that the reference above quoted is incorrect. I should be very glad indeed
to find whether the letter referred to by Miss Strickland is printed in any collection, or
to trace the authority for the reference given in the Lives of the Queens. The MS. copies in
the British Museum are known.

J. BT.

Family of Sir John Banks.--R. H. wishes to be informed how many children were left by {391}
Sir John Banks, Lord Chief Justice in Charles I.'s reign: also, whether any one of these settled
at Keswick: and also, whether Mr. John Banks of that place, the philosopher, as he was called,
was really a lineal descendant of Sir John B., as he is stated to have been by the author of
an old work on the Lakes?

R. C. H. H.

Sewell, Meaning of.--It is usual in some deer-parks in different parts of England, but more
especially, as far as my own knowledge goes, in Kent, for the keepers, when they wish to drive
and collect the deer to one spot, to lay down for this purpose what they call sewells (I may
be wrong as to the orthography), which are simply long lines with feathers attached at intervals,
somewhat after the fashion of the tails of kites. These "sewells," when stretched at length
on the ground, the herd of deer will very rarely pass; but on coming up will check themselves
suddenly when in full career, and wheel about. The same contrivance was in use in Virgil's
time for the same purpose, under the name of formido (Geor. iii. 372.):--"Puniceæve agitant
pavidos formidine pennæ." Can any of your readers help me to the origin of the modern term sewell?

H. C. K.

---- Rectory, Hereford.

Abel represented with Horns.--In one of the windows of King's College Chapel, the subject of
which is the Death of Abel, the artist has given him a pair of horns. Can any of your readers
explain this?

C. J. E.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries Answered.

The Fifteen O's.--In the third part of the "Sermon of Good Works" is this passage:

    "Let us rehearse some other kinds of papistical superstitions and
    abuses; as of beads, of lady psalters and rosaries, of fifteen oos,
    of St. Barnard's verses, of St. Agathe's letters, of purgatory, of
    masses satisfactory, of stations and jubilees, of feigned relics, of
    hallowed beads, bells, bread, water, palms, candles, fire, and such
    other; of superstitious fastings, of fraternities, of pardons, with
    such like merchandise, which were so esteemed and abused to the
    prejudice of God's glory and commandments, that they were made most
    high and most holy things, whereby to attain to the eternal life, or
    remission of sin."

I cite the above from the Parker Society's edition of Archbishop Cranmer's Miscellaneous Writings
and Letters, p. 148. It occurs also in Professor Corrie's edition of the Homilies, p. 58. I
shall be glad to be informed what is meant by the "fifteen Oo's," or "fifteen O's" (for so
they are spelt in the above edition of the Homilies).

C. H. COOPER

Cambridge, April 14. 1851.

    [The fifteen O's are fifteen prayers commencing with the letter O, and
    will be found in Horæ Beatissime Virginis Marie, secundum usum
    ecclesiæ Sarum, p. 201. edit. 1527.]

Meaning of Pightle.--As I dare say you number some Suffolk men among your readers, would any
of them kindly inform me the meaning and derivation of the word "pightle," which is always
applied to a field adjoining the farm-houses in Suffolk?

PHILO-STEVENS.

    [Phillips, in his New World of Words, has "PIGLE or PIGHTEL, a small
    Parcel of Land enclosed with a Hedge, which in some Parts of England is
    commonly call'd a Pingle."]

Inscription on a Guinea of George III.--Round the reverse of a guinea of George III., 1793,
are the following initials:--"M. B. F. ET H. REX--F. D. B. ET L. D. S. R. I. A. T. ET E." The
earlier letters are sufficiently intelligible; but I should be glad to learn the meaning of
the whole inscription.

J. H. C.

Adelaide, South Australia.

    [Of the Faith Defender, of Brunswick and Lunenburg Duke, of the Holy
    Roman Empire Arch-Treasurer and Elector.]

Meaning of Crambo.--Sir Thomas Browne (Religio Medici, part ii. § 15. ed.

Query, What is the meaning of crambo here, and is it to be met with elsewhere with a similar
meaning?

J. H. C.

Adelaide, South Australia.

    [The words "nor any Crambo" mean that the sentiment expressed by
    Solomon is a truth which cannot be too often repeated. Crabbe says,
    "Crambo is a play, in rhyming, in which he that repeats a word that
    was said before forfeits something." In all the MSS. and editions of
    the Religio Medici, 1642, the words "nor any Crambo," are wanting.
    See note on the passage in the edition edited by Simon Wilkin, F.L.S.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

JOHN TRADESCANT PROBABLY AN ENGLISHMAN, AND HIS VOYAGE TO RUSSIA IN 1618.

(Vol. iii., pp. 119. 286. 353.)

DR. RIMBAULT justly observes that "the history of the Tradescants is involved in considerable
obscurity." He does not, however, seem to have been aware that some light has been thrown on
that of the elder John Tradescant by the researches of Dr. Hamel, in his interesting Memoir
published in the Transactions of the Imperial Academy of St. Petersburg in 1847, with the following
title:--"Tradescant der Æltere 1618 in Russland. Der {392} Handelsverkehr zwischen England
und Russland in seiner Entstehung," &c.

DR. RIMBAULT'S note contains a good epitome of the most obvious English notices respecting
the Tradescants; but while correcting the errors of others, he has himself fallen into one
important mistake, in stating that "Old John Tradescant died in 1652;" for that is the date
of the death of his grandson, John, who died young. Old John died in 1638, leaving a son, also
named John, who was born in 1608, and died in 1662, having survived his only son ten years;
and, having no heir to his treasures, he had previously conveyed them, by deed of gift, to
Elias Ashmole, who seems to have contrived to make himself agreeable to him by his pursuits
as a virtuoso, and by his alchemical and astrological fancies. When Dr. Hamel was in England,
I had the pleasure of indicating to him the site of "Tradescant's Ark" in South Lambeth. It
was situate on the east side of the road leading from Vauxhall to Stockwell, nearly opposite
to what was formerly called Spring Lane. Ashmole built a large brick house near that which
had been Tradescant's, out of the back of part of which he made offices. The front part of
it became the habitation of the well-known antiquary, Dr. Ducarel. It still remains as two
dwellings; the one, known as "Turret House," is occupied by John Miles Thorn, Esq., and the
other, called "Stamford House," is the dwelling of J. A. Fulton, Esq.

In his indefatigable researches to elucidate the early intercourse between England and Russia,
Dr. Hamel's attention was accidentally called to the Tradescants and their Museum; and the
following passage in Parkinson's Paradisus Terrestris, p. 345. (Art. "Neesewort," then called
Elleborus albus), led to the discovery of a relation of Old John's voyage to Russia:--

    "This (says Parkinson) grows in many places in Germany, and likewise in
    certain places in Russia, in such abundance, that, according to the
    relation of that worthy, curious, and diligent searcher and preserver
    of all nature's rarities and varieties, my very good friend John
    Tradescante, of whom I have many times before spoken, a moderately
    large ship (as he says) might be laden with the roots thereof, which he
    there saw on a certain island."

The same notice, in other words, also occurs in Parkinson's Theatrum, p. 218.

In searching among the MSS. in the Ashmolean Museum, Dr. Hamel bore this passage in memory,
and one MS., thus described in Mr. Black's excellent catalogue, No. 824., xvi., contained confirmatory
matter:

    "A Voiag of Ambassad undertaken by the Right Honnorabl S^r Dudlie
    Diggs, in the year 1618."

    "This curious narrative of the voyage round the North Cape to
    Archangel, begins with a list of the chief persons employed in the
    embassy, and contains observations of the weather, and on the
    commercial, agricultural, and domestic state of Russia at that time. It
    is written in a rude hand, and by a person unskilled in composition.
    The last half page contains some chronological notes and other stuff,
    perhaps written by the same hand."

Thus far Mr. Black. The full title of the MS. is,--

    "A Viag of Ambassad undertaken by the Right Honnorabl S^r Dudlie Diggs
    in the year 1618, being atended on withe 6 Gentillmen, whiche beare the
    nam of the king's Gentillmen, whose names be heere notted. On M.
    Nowell, brother to the Lord Nowell, M. Thomas Finche, M. Woodward, M.
    Cooke, M. Fante, and M. Henry Wyeld, withe every on of them ther man.
    Other folloers, on Brigges, Interpreter, M. Jams, an Oxford man, his
    Chaplin, on M. Leake his Secretary, withe 3 Scots; on Captain Gilbert
    and his Son, withe on Car, also M. Mathew De Quester's Son, of Filpot
    Lane, in London, the rest his own retenant, some 13 whearof (Note on
    Jonne an Coplie wustersher men) M. Swanli of Limhouse, master of the
    good Ship called the Dianna of Newcastell, M. Nelson, part owner of
    Newe Castell."

Dr. Hamel says:

    "What the words in Italics may signify is not quite clear, but that 'on
    Jonne' must relate to Tradescante himself. Perhaps this passage may
    lead to the discovery that Tradescant did not, as it has been
    conjectured, come from Holland, but that he was a native of
    Worcestershire. The name Tradescant might be an assumed one (it was
    also written Tradeskin, which might be interpreted Fellmonger)."

From documents in the archives at Moscow, Dr. Hamel recovered the Christian names, and a list
of Sir Dudley Digges' attendants in this voyage, which corresponds with that in the MS., thus:--Arthur
Nowell, Thomas Woodward, Adam Cooke, Joseph Fante, Thomas Leake, Richard James, George Brigges,
Jessy De Quester, Adam Jones, Thomas Wakefield, John Adams, Thomas Crisp, Leonard Hugh, and
JOHN COPLIE. This last must therefore have designated John Tradescant himself, who was certainly
there.

Sir Dudley Digges, to whom Tradescant seems to have attached himself in order to obtain knowledge
of the plants and other natural curiosities of Russia, was sent by King James I. to the Czar
Michael Fedorowitsch, who had in the previous year despatched an embassy to the king, principally
to negotiate for a loan. This ambassador, Wolünsky, returned at the same time, in another vessel
accompanying that of Sir Dudley.

Dr. Hamel in his memoir has given considerable extracts from the MS. narrative of the voyage,
which show that Tradescant was an accurate observer not only of objects connected with his
studies of phytology and natural history, but of other matters. Parkinson has justly styled
him "a painful industrious searcher and lover of all natural varieties;" and elsewhere says:
"My very {393} good friend, John Tradescantes, has wonderfully laboured to obtain all the rarest
fruits hee can heare of in any place of Christendome, Turky, yea, or the whole world." The
passages in the journal of his voyage, which prove it to be indubitably his, are numerous,
but the one which first struck Dr. Hamel was sufficient; for in following the narrator on the
Dwina, and the islands there, and, among others, to Rose Island, he found this note, "Helebros
albus, enoug to load a ship." There are, however, others confirmatory beyond a doubt. Parkinson,
in his Paradisus Terrestris, p. 528., has the following passage:--

    "There is another (strawberry) very like unto this (the Virginia
    strawberry, which carrieth the greatest leafe of any other except the
    Bohemian), that John Tradescante brought with him from Brussels (l.
    Russia) long ago, and in seven years could never see one berry ripe on
    all sides, but still the better part rotten, although it would flower
    abundantly every yeare, and beare very large leaves."

Tradescant mentions that he also saw strawberries to be sold in Russia, but could never get
of the plants, though he saw the berries three times at Sir D. Digges's table; but as they
were in nothing differing from ours, but only less, he did not much seek after them. It is
most probable that he brought seed, as he did of another berry, of which he sent part, he tells
us, to his correspondent Vespasian Robin at Paris.

Of a man to whom the merit is due of having founded the earliest Museum of Natural History
and Rarities of Art in England, and who possessed one of the first, and at the same the best,
Botanic Garden, every little particular must be interesting, and it would be pleasing to find
that he was an Englishman, and not a foreigner. The only ground for the latter supposition
is, I believe, the assertion of Anthony à Wood, that he was a Fleming or a Dutchman. The name
Tradescant is, however, neither Flemish nor Dutch, and seems to me much more like an assumed
English pseudonyme. That he was neither a Dutchman nor a Fleming will, I think, be obvious
from the following passage in the narration of his travels:

    "Also, I haue been tould that theare growethe in the land bothe tulipes
    and narsisus. By a Brabander I was tould it, thoug by his name I should
    rather think him a Holander. His name is Jonson, and hathe a house at
    Archangell. He may be eyther, for he [is] always dr[=u]ke once in a
    day."

Now, had Tradescant himself been a Fleming or a Dutchman, he would at least have been able
to speak decisively on this occasion; to say nothing of the vice of intemperance which he attributes
to the natives of those countries. Again, it is quite clear that this journal of travels was
written by Tradescant; yet that name does not appear either in the MS. or in the Russian archives:
but we have John Coplie in both, with the indication in the MS. that he was a Worcestershire
man. Let us therefore, on these grounds, place him in the list of English worthies to whom
we owe a debt of gratitude. But supposing Tradescant to have been his real name, it is quite
evident that he travelled under the name of John Coplie; and it is perhaps vain to speculate
upon the reasons for the assumption of a pseudonyme either way.

Dr. Richard James, who accompanied Sir Dudley Digges as chaplain, appears, from Turner's account
of his MSS., which are deposited in the Bodleian, to have left behind him a MS. account of
his travels in Russia, in five sheets; but his MS. seems to have been lost or mislaid in that
vast emporium, or we might have some confirmation from it respecting Tradescant.

South Lambeth was in former times one of the most agreeable and salubrious spots in the vicinity
of London, and at the time when Tradescant first planted his garden he must have had another
worthy and distinguished man for a neighbour, Sir Noel Caron, who was resident ambassador here
from the States of Holland for twenty-eight years. His estate contained 122 acres; he was a
benefactor to the poor of his vicinity by charitable actions, some of which remain as permanent
monuments of his benevolence, in the shape of almshouses, situate in the Wandsworth Road. The
site of Caron House is now possessed by Henry Beaufoy, Esq., who has worthily emulated the
deeds of his predecessor by acts of munificent benevolence, which must be fraught with incalculable
good for ages yet to come. Mr. Beaufoy has, among his literary treasures, a very interesting
collection of letters in MS., written in French, by Sir Noel Caron to Constantine Huyghens,
I think, which contain many curious illustrations of the events of that period.

Let us hope that time may bring to light further and more complete materials for the biography
of these Lambethan worthies, who have deserved to live in our memories as benefactors to mankind.

S. W. SINGER.

Manor Place, So. Lambeth, May 5. 1851.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FAMILY OF THE TRADESCANTS.

In Chambers's Edinburgh Journal, No. 359., New Series, may be found an account of this family,
written by myself; I hope to be excused when I say that it is the most accurate hitherto published.
It gave me great pleasure to find that so distinguished an antiquary as DR. RIMBAULT mainly
corroborates the article alluded to; but I regret that I feel bound to notice a serious error
into which that gentleman has fallen.

The conflicting accounts and confusion in the history of the Tradescants, have no doubt arisen
from the three, "grandsire, father, and son," having been all named John; consequently, for
the sake of perspicuity, I shall adopt the plan of our worthy editor, and designate the Tradescant
who first settled in England, No. 1.; his son, who published the Musæum Tradescantianum, No.
2.; and the son of the latter, who "died in his spring," No. 3. Now, to prove that it was the
youngest of the Tradescants, No. 3., who died in 1652, we have only to refer to the preface
of the Musæum Tradescantianum, which was published in 1656. There we find that Tradescant No.
2. says that--

    "About three years agoe (by the perswasion of some friends) I was
    resolved to take a catalogue of those rarities and curiosities, which
    my father had sedulously collected, and myself with continued diligence
    have augmented and hitherto preserved together."

He then proceeds to account for the delay in the publication of the work in these words:

    "Presently thereupon my onely son died, one of my friends fell sick,"
    &c.

Again, in Ashmole's Diary we find the following entry:

    "Sept. 11th, 1652. Young John Tredescant died."

And, further on, Ashmole states that

    "He was buried by his grandfather, in Lambeth Churchyard."

The word by, in the quotation, meaning, by the side of, close by his grandfather. The burial
register of Lambeth parish gives the date of the interment, Sept. 16, 1652. Ashmole's Diary,
as quoted by DR. RIMBAULT, and the burial register also, give the date of the death of Tradescant
No. 2., who survived his son ten years: the family then became extinct.

Ashmole, who became acquainted with the Tradescants in 1650, never mentions the grandfather
(No. 1.), nor is his name to be found in the burial registry; and consequently the date of
his death, as far as I have read, has always been set down as uncertain. There are other parish
records, however, than burial registers; and I was well repaid for my search by finding, in
the Churchwardens' Accounts of St. Mary's, Lambeth, the following entries:

    "1634. June 1. Received for burial of Jane, wife of John Tradeskin,
    12s."

    "1637-8. Item. John Tradeskin; ye gret bell and black cloth, 5s. 4d."

This last entry, in all probability, marks the date of the death of the first Tradescant. Assuming
that it does, and as the engraving by Hollar represents him as far advanced in years, his age
did not exclude him from having been in the service of Queen Elizabeth, so much so as it would
if he had died in 1652. I read the line on the tombstone,--

    "Both gardeners to the Rose and Lily Queen"--

as signifying that one of the Tradescants had been gardener to Elizabeth, the Rose Queen, and
the other to Henrietta, the Lily Queen. However, as that is little more than a matter of opinion,
not of historical fact, it need not be further alluded to at present.

I am happy to say, that I have every reason to believe that I am on the trace of new, curious,
and indisputably authentic information respecting the Tradescants. If successful, and if the
editor will spare me a corner, I shall be proud to communicate it to the readers of "NOTES
AND QUERIES."

Tradescant's house, and the house adjoining, where Ashmole lived, previous to his taking possession
of Tradescant's house, after Mrs. Tradescant's death (see Ashmole's Diary), are still standing,
though they have undergone many alterations. Even there, the name of Tradescant seems forgotten:
the venerable building is only known by a nick-name, derived most probably from its antique
chimneys. I had many weary pilgrimages before I discovered the identical edifice. I have not
seen the interior, but am aware that there are some traces of Ashmole in the house, but none
whatever of Tradescant in either house or garden. I had a conversation with the gardener of
the gentleman who now occupies it: he appeared to have an indistinct idea that an adept in
his own profession had once lived there, for he observed that, "If old What's-his-name were
alive now, the potato disease could soon be cured." Oh! what we antiquaries meet with! He further
gave me to understand that "furriners sometimes came there wishing to see the place, but that
I was the only Englishman, that he recollected, who expressed any curiosity about it."

The restorers of the tomb of the Tradescants merely took away the old leger stone, on which
were cut the words quoted by A. W. H. (Vol. iii., p. 207.), and replaced it by a new stone
bearing the lines quoted by DR. RIMBAULT, which were not on the original stone (see Aubrey's
Surrey), and the words--

         "Erected 1662.
  Repaired by Subscription, 1773."

But although the name of the childless, persecuted widow, Hester Tradescant, is not now on
the tomb which she piously erected to the memories of her husband and son; still, on the west
end of it, can be traced the form of a hydra tearing a human skull--fit emblem of the foul
and vulture-like rapacity of Elias Ashmole.

WILLIAM PINKERTON.

Dalmeny Cottage, Ham, Surrey.

{395}

       *       *       *       *       *

POPE JOAN.

(Vol. iii., p. 265.)

