The account given by Rapin of James's departure from England is somewhat ludicrous. The Queen
went first. On the night between the 9th and 10th of December she crossed the Thames in disguise.
She waited under the walls of a church at Lambeth until a coach could be got ready for her
at the nearest inn. She went from thence to Gravesend, where she embarked with the Prince of
Wales on a small vessel, which conveyed them safely to France. The King set out on the following
night. He entered a small boat at Whitehall, dressed in a plain suit and a bob wig, accompanied
by a few friends. He threw the Great Seal into the water, from whence it was afterwards dragged
up by a fisherman's net. Before he left, he gave the Earl of Feversham orders to disband the
army without pay, in order, probably, to create anarchy after his flight.

James reached the south shore of the Thames. He travelled, with relays of horses, to Emley
Ferry, near the Island of Sheppey. He went on board the little vessel that was to convey him
to a French frigate lying in the mouth of the Thames ready to transport him to France. The
wind blew strong, and the vessel was unable to sail.

The fishermen of the neighbourhood boarded the vessel in which the King was. They took him
for the chaplain of Sir Edward Hales, one of his attendants. They searched the King, and found
upon him four hundred guineas and several valuable seals and jewels, which they seized. A constable
was present who knew the King, and he ordered restitution of the valuables which had been taken
from him. The King wished to be gone, but the people by a sort of violence conducted him to
a public inn in the town of Feversham. He then sent for the Earl of Winchelsea, Lord-Lieutenant
of the county, who prevailed upon him not to leave the kingdom, but to return to London.

And to London he went. The Prince of Orange was by this time at Windsor. On the King's arrival
in London he was received with acclamations, as if he had returned from victory. He resumed
possession of his palace. He published a proclamation, announcing that having been given to
understand that divers outrages had been committed in various parts of the kingdom, by burning,
pulling down, and defacing of houses, he commanded all lord-lieutenants, &c., to prevent such
outrages for the future, and suppress all riotous assemblies.

This was his last public act. He was without an army. He had few friends. The Dutch Guards
arrived in London, and took possession of St. James's and Whitehall. The Prince of Orange sent
three lords to the King to desire his Majesty's departure for Ham--a house belonging to the
Duchess of Lauderdale; but the King desired them to tell the Prince that he wished rather to
go to Rochester. The Prince gave his consent.

Next morning the King entered his barge, accompanied by four earls, six of the Yeomen of his
Guard, and about a hundred of the Dutch Guard, commanded by a colonel of the regiment. They
arrived at Gravesend, where the King entered his coach, and proceeded across the country to
Rochester.

In the meantime, Barillon, the French ambassador, was requested to leave England. St. Ledger,
a French refugee, was requested to attend him and see him embark. While they were on the road
St. Ledger could not forbear saying to the ambassador, "Sir, had any one told you a year ago
that a French refugee should be commissioned to see you out of England, would you have believed
it?" To which the ambassador answered, "Sir, cross over with me to Calais, and I will give
you an answer."

Shortly after, James embarked in a small French ship, which landed him safely at Ambleteuse,
a few miles north of Boulogne; while the army of William marched into London amidst loud congratulations,
and William himself took possession of the Palace of St. James's, which the recreant King had
left for his occupation.

James II. fled from England at the end of December, 1688. Louis XIV. received him courteously,
and entertained him and his family at St. Germain and Versailles. But he could scarcely entertain
much regard for the abdicated monarch. James had left his kingdom in an ignominious manner.
Though he was at the head of a great fleet and army, he had not struck a single blow in defence
of his kingly rights And now he had come to the court of Louis XIV. to beg for the assistance
of a French fleet and army to recover his throne.

Though England had rejected James, Ireland was still in his favour. The Lord-Deputy Tyrconnel
was devoted to him; and the Irish people, excepting those of the north, were ready to fight
for him. About a hundred thousand Irishmen were in arms. Half were soldiers; the rest were
undrilled Rapparees. James was urged by messengers from Ireland to take advantage of this state
of affairs. He accordingly begged Louis XIV. to send a French army with him into Ireland to
help him to recover his kingdom.

But the French monarch, who saw before him the prospect of a continental war, was unwilling
to send a large body of troops out of his kingdom. But he did what he could.

He ordered the Brest fleet to be ready. He put on board arms and ammunition for ten thousand
men. He selected four hundred French officers for the purpose of disciplining the Irish levies.
Count Rosen, a veteran warrior, was placed in command. Over a hundred thousand pounds of money
was also put on board. When the fleet was ready to sail, James took leave of his patron, Louis
XIV. "The best thing that I can wish you," said the French king, "is that I may never see you
again in this world."

The fleet sailed from Brest on the 7th of March, 1689, and reached Kinsale, in the south of
Ireland, four days later. James II. was received with the greatest rejoicing. Next day he went
on to Cork; he was received by the Earl of Tyrconnel, who caused one of the magistrates to
be executed because he had declared for the Prince of Orange.

The news went abroad that the King had landed. He entered Dublin on the 24th of March, and
was received in a triumphant manner. All Roman Catholic Ireland was at his feet. The Protestants
in the south were disarmed. There was some show of resistance in the north; but no doubt was
entertained that Enniskillen and Derry, where the Protestants had taken refuge, would soon
be captured and Protestantism crushed.

The Prince of Orange, who had now been proclaimed King at Westminster, found that he must fight
for his throne, and that Ireland was to be the battle-field. Londonderry was crowded with Protestants,
who held out for William III. James believed that the place would fall without a blow. Count
Rosen was of the same opinion. The Irish army proceeded northwards without resistance. The
country, as far as the walls of Derry, was found abandoned by the population. Everything valuable
had been destroyed by bands of Rapparees. There was great want of food for the army.

Nevertheless, James proceeded as far as Derry. The cannon were fired from the nearest bastion.
One of James's officers was killed by his side. Then he fled. A few days later he was on his
way to Dublin, accompanied by Count Rosen.

Londonderry, after an heroic contest, was at length relieved. A fleet from England, laden with
food, broke the boom which had been thrown by the Irish army across the entrance to the harbour.
The ships reached the quay at ten o'clock at night. The whole population were there to receive
them. The food was unloaded, and the famished people were at length fed. Three days after,
the Irish army burnt their huts, and left the long-beleaguered city. They retreated along the
left bunk of the Boyne to Strabane.

While the Irish forces were lying there, the news of another disaster reached them. The Duke
of Berwick lay with a strong detachment of Irish troops before Enniskillen. He had already
gained some advantage over the Protestant colonists, and the command reached him from Dublin
that he was immediately to attack them. The Irish were five thousand in number; the Enniskilleners
under three thousand.

An engagement took place at Newton Butler. The Enniskillen horse swept the Irish troops before
them. The Irish army were then at Strabane, on their retreat from Londonderry. They at once
struck their tents, threw their military stores into the river, and set out in full retreat
for the south.

In the meantime a French fleet had landed at Bantry Bay, with three thousand men on board,
and a large convoy of ammunition and provisions. William III., on his part, determined, with
the consent of the English Parliament, to send a force into Ireland to encounter the French
and Irish forces under King James.

William's troops consisted of English, Scotch, Dutch, and Danes, with a large admixture of
French Huguenots. There were a regiment of Huguenot horse, of eight companies, commanded by
the Duke of Schomberg, and three regiments of Huguenot foot, commanded by La Mellonière, Du
Cambon, and La Caillemotte. Schomberg, the old Huguenot chief, was put in command of the entire
force.

Rapin accompanied the expedition as a cadet. The army assembled at Highlake, about sixteen
miles from Chester. About ninety vessels of all sorts were assembled near the mouth of the
Dee. Part of the army was embarked on the 12th of August, and set sail for Ireland. About ten
thousand men, horse and foot, were landed at Bangor, near the southern entrance to Belfast
Lough. Parties were sent out to scour the adjacent country, and to feel for the enemy. This
done, the army set out for Belfast.

James's forces had abandoned the place, and retired to Carrickfergus, some ten miles from Belfast,
on the north coast of the Lough. Carrickfergus was a fortified town. The castle occupies a
strong position on a rock overlooking the Lough. The place formed a depôt for James's troops,
and Schomberg therefore determined to besiege the fortress.

Rapin has written an account of William's campaigns in England and Ireland; but with becoming
modesty he says nothing about his own achievements. We must therefore supply the deficiency.
Before the siege of Carrickfergus, he had been appointed ensign in Lord Kingston's regiment.
He was helped to this office by his uncle Daniel, who accompanied the expedition. Several regiments
of Schomberg's army were detached from Belfast to Carrickfergus, to commence the siege. Among
these was Lord Kingston's regiment.

On their approach, the enemy beat a parley. They desired to march out with arms and baggage.
Schomberg refused, and the siege began. The trenches were opened, the batteries were raised,
and the cannon thundered against the walls of the old town. Several breaches were made. The
attacks were pursued with great vigour for four days, when a general assault was made. The
besieged hoisted the white flag. After a parley, it was arranged that the Irish should surrender
the place, and march out with their arms, and as much baggage as they could carry on their backs.

Carrickfergus was not taken without considerable loss to the besiegers. Lieutenant Briset,
of the Flemish Guards, was killed by the first shot fired from the castle. The Marquis de Venours
was also killed while leading the Huguenot regiments to the breach. Rapin distinguished himself
so much during the siege that he was promoted to the rank of lieutenant. He was at the same
time transferred to another regiment, and served under Lieutenant-General Douglas during the
rest of the campaign.

More troops having arrived from England, Schomberg marched with his augmented army to Lisburn,
Drummore, and Loughbrickland. Here the Enniskillen Horse joined them, and offered to be the
advanced guard of the army. The Enniskilleners were a body of irregular horsemen, of singularly
wild and uncouth appearance. They rode together in a confused body, each man being attended
by a mounted servant, bearing his baggage. The horsemen were each mounted and accoutred after
their own fashion, without any regular dress, or arms, or mode of attack. They only assumed
a hasty and confused line when about to rush into action. They fell on pell-mell. Yet they
were the bravest of the brave, and were never deterred from attacking by inequality of numbers.
They were attended by their favourite preachers, who urged them on to deeds of valour, and
encouraged them "to purge the land of idolatry."

Thus reinforced, Schomberg pushed on to Newry. The Irish were in force there, under command
of the Duke of Berwick. But although it was a very strong place, the Irish abandoned the town,
first setting fire to it. This news having been brought to Schomberg, he sent a trumpet to
the Duke of Berwick, acquainting him that if they went on to burn towns in that barbarous manner,
he would give no quarter. This notice seems to have had a good effect, for on quitting Dundalk
the retreating army did no harm to the town. Schomberg encamped about a mile north of Dundalk,
in a low, moist ground, where he entrenched his army. Count Rosen was then at Drogheda with
about twenty thousand men, far outnumbering the forces under Schomberg.

About the end of September, King James's army approached the lines of Dundalk. They drew up
in order of battle. The English officers were for attacking the enemy, but Schomberg advised
them to refrain. A large party of horse appeared within cannon shot, but they made no further
attempt. In a day or two after James drew off his army to Ardee, Count Rosen indignantly exclaiming,
"If your Majesty had ten kingdoms, you would lose them all." In the meantime, Schomberg remained
entrenched in his camp. The Enniskilleners nevertheless made various excursions, and routed
a body of James's troops marching towards Sligo.

Great distress fell upon Schomberg's army. The marshy land on which they were encamped, the
wet and drizzly weather, the scarcity and badness of the food, caused a raging sickness to
break out. Great numbers were swept away by disease. Among the officers who died were Sir Edward
Deering, of Kent; Colonel Wharton, son of Lord Wharton; Sir Thomas Gower and Colonel Hungerford,
two young gentlemen of distinguished merit. Two thousand soldiers died in the camp. Many afterwards
perished from cold and hunger. Schomberg at length left the camp at Dundalk, and the remains
of his army went into winter quarters.

Rapin shared all the suffering of the campaign. When the army retreated northward, Rapin was
sent with a party of soldiers to occupy a fortified place between Stranorlar and Donegal. It
commanded the Pass of Barnes Gap. This is perhaps the most magnificent defile in Ireland. It
is about four miles long. Huge mountains rise on either side. The fortalice occupied by Rapin
is now in ruins. It stands on a height overlooking the northern end of the pass. It is now
called Barrack Hill. The Rapparees who lived at the lower end of the Gap were accustomed to
come down upon the farming population of the lowland country on the banks of the rivers Finn
and Mourne, and carry off all the cattle that they could seize; Rapin was accordingly sent
with a body of troops to defend the lowland farmers from the Rapparees. Besides, it was found
necessary to defend the pass against the forces of King James, who then occupied Sligo and
the neighbouring towns, under the command of General Sarsfield.

Schomberg was very much blamed by the English Parliament for having effected nothing decisive
in Ireland. But what could he do? He had to oppose an army more than three times stronger in
numbers than his own. King William, Rapin says, wrote twice to him, "pressing him to put somewhat
to the venture." But his army was wasted by disease, and had he volunteered an encounter and
been defeated, his whole army, and consequently all Ireland, would have been lost, for he could
not have made a regular retreat. "His sure way," says Rapin, "was to preserve his army, and
that would save Ulster and keep matters entire for another year. And therefore, though this
conduct of his was blamed by some, yet better judges thought that the managing of this campaign
as he did was one of the greatest parts of his life."

Winter passed. Nothing decisive had been accomplished on either side. Part of Ulster was in
the hands of William; the remainder of Ireland was in the hands of James. Schomberg's army
was wasted by famine and disease. James made no use of his opportunity to convert his athletic
peasants into good soldiers. On the contrary, Schomberg recruited his old regiments, drilled
them constantly, and was ready to take the field at the approach of spring.

His first achievement was the capture of Charlemont, midway between Armagh and Dungannon. It
was one of the strongest forts in the north of Ireland. It overlooked the Blackwater, and commanded
an important pass. It was surrounded by a morass, and approachable only by two narrow causeways.
When Teague O'Regan, who commanded the fort, was summoned to surrender, he replied, "Schomberg
is an old rogue, and shall not have this castle!" But Caillemotte, with his Huguenot regiments,
sat down before the fortress, and starved the garrison into submission. Captain Francis Rapin,
cousin of our hero, was killed during the siege.

The armies on both sides were now receiving reinforcements. Louis XIV. sent seven thousand
two hundred and ninety men of all ranks to the help of James, under the command of Count Lauzun.
They landed at Cork in March, 1689, and marched at once to Dublin. Lauzun described the country
as a chaos such as he had read of in the Book of Genesis.

On the other hand, Schomberg's forces were recruited by seven thousand Danes, under a treaty
which William III. had entered into with the King of Denmark. New detachments of English and
Scotch, of Huguenots, Dutch, Flemings, and Brandenburgers, were also added to the allied army.

William landed at Carrickfergus on the 14th of June. He passed on to Belfast, where he met
Schomberg, the Prince of Wurtemberg, Major-General Kirk, and other general officers. He then
pushed on to Lisburn, the head-quarters of his army. He there declared that he would not let
the grass grow under his feet, but would pursue the war with the utmost vigour. He ordered
the whole army to assemble at Loughbrickland. He found them to consist of sixty-two squadrons
of cavalry and fifty-two battalions of infantry--in all, thirty-six thousand English, Dutch,
French, Danes, and Germans, well appointed in every respect. Lieutenant-General Douglas commanded
the advance-guard--to which Rapin belonged--and William III., Schomberg, and St. Gravenmore
commanded the main body.

William III. had no hesitation in entering at once on the campaign. He had been kept too long
in London by parliamentary turmoil, by intrigues between Whigs and Tories, and sometimes by
treachery on both sides. But now that he was in the field his spirits returned, and he determined
to lose not a day in measuring swords with his enemy. He had very little time to spare. He
must lose or win his crown; though his determination was to win. Accordingly he marched southward
without delay.

William had been in Ireland six days before James knew of his arrival. The passes between Newry
and Dundalk had been left unguarded--passes where a small body of well-disciplined troops might
easily have checked the advance of William's army. Dundalk was abandoned. Ardee was abandoned.
The Irish army were drawn up in a strong position on the south of the Boyne to arrest the progress
of the invading army. James had all the advantages that nature could give him. He had a deep
river in front, a morass on his left, and the narrow bridge of Slane on his right. Behind was
a rising ground stretching along the whole of the field. In the rear lay the church and village
of Donore, and the Pass of Duleek. Drogheda lay towards the mouth of the river, where the green
and white flags of Ireland and France were flying, emblazoned with the harp and the lilies.

William never halted until he reached the summit of a rising ground overlooking the beautiful
valley of the Boyne. It is about the most fertile ground in Ireland. As he looked from east
to west, William said to one of his staff, "Behold a land worth fighting for!" Rapin was there,
and has told the story of the crossing of the Boyne. He says that the forces of King James,
lying on the other side of the river, amounted to about the same number as those under King
William. They included more than seven thousand veteran French soldiers. There was a splendid
body of Irish horse, and about twenty thousand Irish foot.

James's officers were opposed to a battle; they wished to wait for the large fleet and the
additional forces promised by Louis XIV. But James resolved to maintain his position, and thought
that he might have one fair battle for his crown. "But," says Rapin, "notwithstanding all his
advantages--the deep river in front, the morass on his right, and the rising ground behind
him--he ordered a ship to be prepared for him at Waterford, that in case of a defeat he might
secure his retreat to France."

On the morning of the 30th of June, William ordered his whole army to move by break of day
by three lines towards the river, about three miles distant. The King marched in front. By
nine o'clock they were within two miles of Drogheda. Observing a hill east of the enemy, the
King rode up to view the enemy's camp. He found it to lie all along the river in two lines.
Here he had a long consultation with his leading officers. He then rode to the pass at Old
Bridge, within musket-shot of the ford; next he rode westward, so as to take a full view of
the enemy's camp. He fixed the place where his batteries were to be planted, and decided upon
the spot where his army was to cross the river on the following day.

The Irish on the other side of the river had not been unobservant of the King's movements.
They could see him riding up and down the banks, for they were not sixty yards apart. The Duke
of Berwick, the Viceroy Tyrconnel, General Sarsfield, and other officers were carefully watching
his movements. While the army was marching up the river-side, William dismounted and sat down
upon a rising ground to partake of some refreshments, for he had been on horseback since early
dawn. During this time a party of Irish horse on the other side brought forward two field-pieces
through a ploughed field, and planted them behind a hedge. They took their sight and fired.
The first shot killed a man and two horses close by the King. William immediately mounted his
horse. The second gun was not so well aimed. The shot struck the water, but rising en ricochet,
it slanted on the King's right shoulder, took a piece out of his coat, and tore the skin and
the flesh. William rode away stooping in his saddle. The Earl of Coningsby put a handkerchief
over the wound, but William said "there was no necessity, the bullet should have come nearer."

The enemy, seeing the discomfiture of the King's party, and that he rode away wounded, spread
abroad the news that he was killed. "They immediately," says Rapin, "set up a shout all over
their camp, and drew down several squadrons of their horse upon a plain towards the river,
as if they meant to pass and pursue the English army. Nay, the report of the King's death flew
presently to Dublin, and from thence spread as far as Paris, where the people were encouraged
to express their joy by bonfires and illuminations." In the meantime William returned to his
tent, where he had his wound dressed, and again mounted and showed himself to the whole army,
in order to dissipate their apprehensions. He remained on horseback until nine at night, though
he had been up since one o'clock in the morning.

William then called a council of war, and declared his resolution of forcing the river next
day. Schomberg opposed this, but finding the King determined, he urged that a strong body of
horse and foot should be sent to Slane bridge that night, so as to be able to cross the bridge
and get between the enemy and the Pass of Duleek, which lay behind King James's army. This
advice, if followed, might perhaps have ended the war in one campaign. Such is Rapin's opinion.
The proposal was, however, rejected; and it was determined to cross the river in force on the
following morning. William inspected the troops at midnight. He rode along the whole army by
torchlight, and after giving out the password "Westminster," he returned to his tent for a
few hours' sleep.

The shades of night lay still over that sleeping host. The stars looked down in peace on these
sixty thousand brethren of the same human family, ready to rise with the sun and imbrue their
hands in each other's blood. Tyrannical factions and warring creeds had set them at enmity
with each other, and turned the sweetness and joy of their nature into gall and bitterness.
The night was quiet. The murmur of the river fell faintly on the ear. A few trembling lights
gleamed through the dark from the distant watchtowers of Drogheda. The only sounds that rose
from the vast host that lay encamped in the valley of the Boyne were the challenges of the
sentinels to each other as they paced their midnight rounds.

The sun rose clear and beautiful. It was the first day of July--a day for ever memorable in
the history of Ireland as well as England. The générale was beat in the camp of William before
daybreak, and as soon as the sun was up the battle began. Lieutenant-General Douglas marched
towards the right with six battalions of foot, accompanied by Count Schomberg (son of the Marshal)
with twenty-four squadrons of horse. They crossed the river below the bridge of Slane, and
though opposed by the Irish, they drove them back and pressed them on towards Duleek.

When it was supposed that the left wing had crossed the Boyne, the Dutch Blue Guards, beating
a march till they reached the river's edge, went in eight or ten abreast, the water reaching
above their girdles. When they had gained the centre of the stream they were saluted with a
tremendous fire from the Irish foot, protected by the breastworks, lanes, and hedges on the
farther side of the river. Nevertheless they pushed on, formed in two lines, and drove the
Irish before them. Several Irish battalions were brought to bear upon them, but without effect.
Then a body of Irish cavalry assailed them, but still they held their ground.

William, seeing his troops hardly pressed, sent across two Huguenot regiments and one English
regiment to their assistance. But a regiment of Irish dragoons, at the moment of their reaching
the shore, fell upon their flank, broke their ranks, and put many of them to the sword. Colonel
Caillemotte, leader of the Huguenots, received a mortal wound. He was laid on a litter and
carried to the rear. As he met his men coming up to the help of their comrades, he called out,
"A la gloire, mes enfants! à la gloire!" A squadron of Danish horse forded the river, but the
Irish dragoons, in one of their dashing charges, broke and defeated them, and drove them across
the river in great confusion.

Duke Schomberg, who was in command of the centre, seeing that the day was going against King
William, and that the French Huguenots were fighting without their leader, crossed the river
and put himself at their head. Pointing to the Frenchmen in James's ranks, he cried out to
his men, "Allons, messieurs, voilà vos persécuteurs!" The words were scarcely out of his mouth
when a troop of James's guards, returning full speed to their main body, fell furiously upon
the Duke and inflicted two sword cuts upon his head. The regiment of Cambon began at once to
fire upon the enemy, but by a miss shot they hit the Duke. "They shot the Duke," says Rapin,
"through the neck, of which he instantly died, and M. Foubert, alighting to receive him, was
shot in the arm."

The critical moment had arrived. The centre of William's army was in confusion. Their leaders,
Schomberg and Caillemotte, were killed. The men were waiting for orders. They were exposed
to the galling fire of the Irish infantry and cavalry. King James was in the rear on the hill
of Dunmore surrounded by his French body-guard. He was looking down upon the field of battle,
viewing now here, now there. It is even said that when he saw the Irish dragoons routing the
cavalry and riding down the broken infantry of William, he exclaimed, "Spare! oh, spare my
English subjects!"

The firing had now lasted uninterruptedly for more than an hour, when William seized the opportunity
of turning the tide of battle against his spiritless adversary. Putting himself at the head
of the left wing, he crossed the Boyne by a dangerous and difficult ford a little lower down
the river; his cavalry for the most part swimming across the tide. The ford had been left unguarded,
and the whole soon reached the opposite bank in safety. But even there the horse which William
rode sank in a bog, and he was forced to alight until the horse was got out. He was helped
to remount, for the wound in his shoulder was very painful. So soon as the troops were got
into sufficient order, William drew his sword, though his wound made it uneasy for him to wield
it. He then marched on towards the enemy.

When the Irish saw themselves menaced by William's left wing, they halted, and retired towards
Dunmore. But gaining courage, they faced about and fell upon the English horse. They gave way.
The King then rode up to the Enniskilleners, and asked, "What they would do for him?" Not knowing
him, the men were about to shoot him, thinking him to be one of the enemy. But when their chief
officer told them that it was the King who wanted their help, they at once declared their intention
of following him. They marched forward and received the enemy's fire. The Dutch troops came
up, at the head of whom William placed himself. "In this place," says Rapin, "Duke Schomberg's
regiment of horse, composed of French Protestants, and strengthened by an unusual number of
officers, behaved with undaunted resolution, like men who fought for a nation amongst whom
themselves and their friends had found shelter against the persecution of France."

Ginckel's troops now arrived on the scene; but they were overpowered by the Irish horse, and
forced to give way. Sir Albert Cunningham's and Colonel Levison's dragoons then came up, and
enabled Ginckel's troops to rally; and the Irish were driven up the hill, after an hour's hard
fighting. James's lieutenant-general, Hamilton, was taken prisoner and brought before the King.
He was asked "Whether the Irish would fight any more?" "Yes," he answered; "upon my honour
I believe they will." The Irish slowly gave way, their dragoons charging again and again, to
cover the retreat of the foot. At Dunmore they made a gallant stand, driving back the troops
of William several times. The farmstead of Sheephouse was taken and retaken again and again.

At last the Irish troops slowly retreated up the hill. The French troops had scarcely been
engaged. Sarsfield implored James to put himself at their head, and make a last fight for his
crown. Six thousand fresh men coming into action, when the army of William was exhausted by
fatigue, might have changed the fortune of the day. But James would not face the enemy. He
put himself at the head of the French troops and Sarsfield's regiment--the first occasion on
which he had led during the day--and set out for Dublin, leaving the rest of his army to shift
for themselves.

The Irish army now poured through the Pass of Duleek. They were pursued by Count Schomberg
at the head of the left wing of William's army. The pursuit lasted several miles beyond the
village of Duleek, when the Count was recalled by express orders of the King. The Irish army
retreated in good order, and they reached Dublin in safety. James was the first to carry thither
the news of his defeat. On reaching Dublin Castle, he was received by Lady Tyrconnel, the wife
of the Viceroy. "Madam," said he, "your countrymen can run well." "Not quite so well as your
Majesty," was her retort, "for I see that you have won the race."

The opinion of the Irish soldiers may be understood from their saying, after their defeat,
"Change generals, and we will fight the battle over again." "James had no royal quality about
him," says an able Catholic historian; "nature had made him a coward, a monk, and a gourmand;
and, in spite of the freak of fortune that had placed him on a throne, and seemed inclined
to keep him there, she vindicated her authority, and dropped him ultimately in the niche that
suited him--

  'The meanest slave of France's despot lord.'"

William halted on the field that James had occupied in the morning. The troops remained under
arms all night. The loss of life was not so great as was expected. On William's side not more
than four hundred men were killed; but amongst them were Duke Schomberg, Colonel Caillemotte,
and Dr. George Walker, the defender of Derry. "King James's whole loss in this battle," says
Rapin, "was generally computed at fifteen hundred men, amongst whom were the Lord Dungan, the
Lord Carlingford, Sir Neil O'Neil, Colonel Fitzgerald, the Marquis d'Hocquincourt, and several
prisoners, the chief of whom was Lieutenant-General Hamilton, who, to do him justice, behaved
with great courage, and kept the victory doubtful, until he was taken prisoner."

On the following day Drogheda surrendered without resistance. The garrison laid down their
arms, and departed for Athlone. James stayed at Dublin for a night, and on the following morning
he started for Waterford, causing the bridges to be broken down behind him, for fear of being
pursued by the allied forces. He then embarked on a ship-of-war, and was again conveyed to France.

William's army proceeded slowly to Dublin. The Duke of Ormond entered the city two days after
the battle of the Boyne, at the head of nine troops of horse. On the next day the King, with
his whole army, marched to Finglas, in the neighbourhood of Dublin; and on the 6th of July
he entered the city, and proceeded to St. Patrick's Church, to return thanks for his victory.

The whole of the Irish army proceeded towards Athlone and Limerick, intending to carry on the
war behind the Shannon. William sent a body of his troops, under Lieutenant-General Douglas,
to Athlone, while he himself proceeded to reduce and occupy the towns of the South. Rapin followed
his leader, and hence his next appearance at the siege of Athlone.

Rapin conducted himself throughout the Irish campaign as a true soldier. He was attentive,
accurate, skilful, and brave. He did the work he had to do without any fuss; but he did it.
Lieutenant-General Douglas, under whom he served, soon ascertained his merits, saw through
his character, and became much attached to him. He promoted him to the rank of aide-de-camp,
so that he might have this able Frenchman continually about his person.

