[Footnote 2: No doubt the poet here alludes to port wine at 38s. the dozen.]

LETTER 64

CHARLES LAMB TO S. T. COLERIDGE

Thursday, Aug. 14, 1800.

Read on and you'll come to the Pens. I shall certainly come to be damned at last. Hell gapes
and the Devil's great guts cry cupboard for me.

In the next edition of the "Anthology" (which Phoebus avert and those nine other wandering
maids also!) please to blot out gentle-hearted, and substitute drunken: dog, ragged-head, seld-shaven,
odd-eyed, stuttering, or any other epithet which truly and properly belongs to the gentleman
in question. And for Charles read Tom, or Bob, or Richard for more delicacy. Damn you, I was
beginning to forgive you and believe in earnest that the lugging in of my proper name was purely
unintentional on your part, when looking back for further conviction, stares me in the face
Charles Lamb of the India House. Now I am convinced it was all done in malice, heaped sack-upon-sack,
congregated, studied malice. You Dog! your 141st page shall not save you. I own I was just
ready to acknowledge that there is a something not unlike good poetry in that page, if you
had not run into the unintelligible abstraction-fit about the manner of the Deity's making
spirits perceive his presence. God, nor created thing alive, can receive any honour from such
thin show-box attributes.

By-the-by, where did you pick up that scandalous piece of private history about the angel and
the Duchess of Devonshire? If it is a fiction of your own, why truly it is a very modest one
for you. Now I do affirm that "Lewti" is a very beautiful poem. I was in earnest when I praised
it. It describes a silly species of one not the wisest of passions. Therefore it cannot deeply
affect a disenthralled mind. But such imagery, such novelty, such delicacy, and such versification
never got into an "Anthology" before. I am only sorry that the cause of all the passionate
complaint is not greater than the trifling circumstance of Lewti being out of temper one day.
In sober truth, I cannot see any great merit in the little Dialogue called "Blenheim." It is
rather novel and pretty; but the thought is very obvious and children's poor prattle, a thing
of easy imitation. Pauper vult videri et EST.

"Gualberto" certainly has considerable originality, but sadly wants finishing. It is, as it
is, one of the very best in the book. Next to "Lewti" I like the "Raven," which has a good
deal of humour. I was pleased to see it again, for you once sent it me, and I have lost the
letter which contained it. Now I am on the subject of Anthologies, I must say I am sorry the
old Pastoral way has fallen into disrepute. The Gentry which now indite Sonnets are certainly
the legitimate descendants of the ancient shepherds. The same simpering face of description,
the old family face, is visibly continued in the line. Some of their ancestors' labours are
yet to be found in Allan Ramsay's and Jacob Tonson's Miscellanies.

But, miscellanies decaying and the old Pastoral way dying of mere want, their successors (driven
from their paternal acres) now-a-days settle and hive upon Magazines and Anthologies. This
Race of men are uncommonly addicted to superstition. Some of them are Idolaters and worship
the Moon. Others deify qualities, as love, friendship, sensibility, or bare accidents, as Solitude.
Grief and Melancholy have their respective altars and temples among them, as the heathens builded
theirs to Mors, Febris, Palloris. They all agree in ascribing a peculiar sanctity to the number
fourteen. One of their own legislators affirmeth, that whatever exceeds that number "encroacheth
upon the province of the Elegy"--vice versa, whatever "cometh short of that number abutteth
upon the premises of the Epigram." I have been able to discover but few Images in their temples,
which, like the Caves of Delphos of old, are famous for giving Echoes. They impute a religious
importance to the letter O, whether because by its roundness it is thought to typify the moon,
their principal goddess, or for its analogies to their own labours, all ending where they began;
or whatever other high and mystical reference, I have never been able to discover, but I observe
they never begin their invocations to their gods without it, except indeed one insignificant
sect among them, who use the Doric A, pronounced like Ah! broad, instead. These boast to have
restored the old Dorian mood. But I am suffering from the combined effect of two days' drunkenness,
and at such times it is not very easy to think or express in a natural series. The ONLY useful
OBJECT of this Letter is to apprize you that on Saturday I shall transmit the PENS by the same
coach I sent the Parcel. So enquire them out. You had better write to Godwin here, directing
your letter to be forwarded to him. I don't know his address. You know your letter must at
any rate come to London first. C. L.

["Your satire upon me"--"This Lime-tree Bower my Prison" (see above).

"Those nine other wandering maids"--the Muses. A recollection of The Anti-Jacobin's verses
on Lamb and his friends (see above).

"Your 141st page." "This Lime-tree Bower" again. By "unintelligible abstraction-fit"

"That scandalous piece of private history." A reference to Coleridge's "Ode to Georgiana, Duchess
of Devonshire," reprinted in the Annual Anthology from the Morning Post.

"Blenheim"--Southey's ballad, "It was a summer's evening."

"Gualberto." The poem "St. Gualberto" by Southey, in the Annual Anthology.

"The Raven" was referred to in Lamb's letter of Feb. 5, 1797.

George Dyer's Poems, in two volumes, were published in 1800. See note to Letter 80.

Upon the phrase "the tops of evening bricks" in this letter, editors have been divided. The
late Dr. Garnett, who annotated the Boston Bibliophile edition, is convinced that "evening"
is the word, and he says that the bricks meant were probably briquettes of compressed coal dust.]

LETTER 65

CHARLES LAMB TO THOMAS MANNING

[P.M. August 24, 1800.]

Dear Manning,--I am going to ask a favour of you, and am at a loss how to do it in the most
delicate manner.

C. L.

[Mr. Melmoth. A translation of the Letters of Pliny the Younger was made by William Melmoth
in 1746.

Trismegistus--thrice greatest--was the term applied to Hermes, the Egyptian philosopher. Manning
had written An Introduction to Arithmetic and Algebra, 1796, 1798. He was found guilty and
banished from the University of Cambridge. He had been a friend of Robert Robinson, whose life
Dyer wrote, and remained a friend of Dyer to the end of his life. Coleridge had been among
the undergraduates who supported Frend at his trial.

"...'s brain." In a later letter Lamb uses Judge Park's wig, when his head is in it, as a simile
for emptiness.]

LETTER 66

CHARLES LAMB TO S. T. COLERIDGE

August 26th, 1800.

How do you like this little epigram? It is not my writing, nor had I any finger in it. If you
concur with me in thinking it very elegant and very original, I shall be tempted to name the
author to you. I will just hint that it is almost or quite a first attempt.

HELEN REPENTANT TOO LATE

1 High-born Helen, round your dwelling These twenty years I've paced in vain: Haughty beauty,
your lover's duty Has been to glory in his pain.

2 High-born Helen! proudly telling Stories of your cold disdain; I starve, I die, now you comply,
And I no longer can complain.

3 These twenty years I've lived on tears, Dwelling for ever on a frown; On sighs I've fed,
your scorn my bread; I perish now you kind are grown.

4 Can I, who loved my Beloved But for the "scorn was in her eye," Can I be moved for my Beloved,
When she "returns me sigh for sigh?"

5 In stately pride, by my bed-side, High-born Helen's portrait's hung; Deaf to my praise; my
mournful lays Are nightly to the portrait sung.

6 To that I weep, nor ever sleep, Complaining all night long to her! Helen, grown old, no longer
cold, Said, "You to all men I prefer."

Godwin returned from Wicklow the week before last, tho' he did not reach home till the Sunday
after. He might much better have spent that time with you.--But you see your invitation would
have been too late. He greatly regrets the occasion he mist of visiting you, but he intends
to revisit Ireland in the next summer, and then he will certainly take Keswick in his way.
I dined with the Heathen on Sunday.

By-the-by, I have a sort of recollection that somebody, I think you, promised me a sight of
Wordsworth's Tragedy. I should be very glad of it just now; for I have got Manning with me,
and should like to read it with him. But this, I confess, is a refinement. Under any circumstances,
alone in Cold Bath Prison, or in the desert island, just when Prospero & his crew had set off,
with Caliban in a cage, to Milan, it would be a treat to me to read that play. Manning has
read it, so has Lloyd, and all Lloyd's family; but I could not get him to betray his trust
by giving me a sight of it. Lloyd is sadly deficient in some of those virtuous vices. I have
just lit upon a most beautiful fiction of hell punishments, by the author of "Hurlothrumbo,"
a mad farce. The inventor imagines that in hell there is a great caldron of hot water, in which
a man can scarce hold his finger, and an immense sieve over it, into which the probationary
souls are put.

"And all the little souls Pop through the riddle holes."

Mary's love to Mrs. Coleridge--mine to all.

C. L.

[The little epigram was by Mary Lamb. It was printed first in the John Woodvil volume in 1802;
and again, in a footnote to Lamb's essay "Blakesmoor in H----shire," 1824.

Godwin's return was from his visit to Curran. Coleridge had asked him to break his journey
at Keswick.

"Wordsworth's Tragedy"--"The Borderers."

"I would write a novel." Lamb returns to this idea in Letter 91.

One of Dyer's printed criticisms of Shakespeare, in his Poetics, some years later might be
quoted: "Shakespeare had the inward clothing of a fine mind; the outward covering of solid
reading, of critical observation, and the richest eloquence; and compared with these, what
are the trappings of the schools?"

["Thy Black Back"--Manning's Algebra.

Dr. Anderson was James Anderson (1739-1808), the editor, at that time, of Recreations in Agriculture,
Natural History, Arts, and Miscellaneous History, published in monthly parts. Lamb gave him
a copy of verses--three extracts from John Woodvil which were printed in the number for November,
1800, as being "from an unpublished drama by C. Lamb." They were the "Description of a Forest
Life," "The General Lover" ("What is it you love?") and "Fragment or Dialogue," better known
as "The Dying Lover." All have slight variations from other versions. The most striking is
the epithet "lubbar bands of sleep," instead of "lazy bands of sleep," in the "Description
of a Forest Life."

["Divine spirit of gravy." This passage is the first of Lamb's outbursts of gustatory ecstasy,
afterwards to become frequent in his writings.

Here should come a letter, dated October 9, 1800, in the richest spirit of comedy, describing
to Coleridge an evening with George Dyer and the Cottles after the death of their brother Amos;
and how Lamb, by praising Joseph Cottle's poem, drew away that good man's thoughts from his
grief. Other criticisms upon it by Lamb will be found in this work.

