I was a little surprised that Miss JOAN VIVIAN-REES should so overplay her Trixie. Her work
is certainly in general not like that, and I conjecture the influence of some baleful autocrat
of a producer. It seemed to me that Miss MILDRED EVELYN'S Milly was, all things considered,
a capable and consistent study of a desperately unsympathetic character, a more difficult and
creditable feat than is commonly supposed.

T.

"WILD GEESE."

I should hesitate to accuse Mr. RONALD JEANS of originality in the design of his musical trifle
at the Comedy. The idea of a company of women that bans the society of men is at least as old
as the Attic stage. But it is to his credit that though the theme invited suggestiveness he
at least avoided the licence of The Lysistrata. Indeed there were moments when his restraint
filled me with respectful wonder. Thus, though the Pacific Island to which the Junior Jumper
Club retired--with no male attendant but the Club porter--clearly indicated a bathing scene,
yet we had to be satisfied with an occasional glimpse of an exiguous maillot with nobody inside it.

In fact, the fun throughout had a note of reserve and was never boisterous. Mr. JACK BUCHANAN'S
quiet methods in the part of the Hon. Bill Malcolm, universal philanderer, lent themselves
to this quality of understatement. In a scene where he tried to extricate himself from a number
of coincident entanglements with various members of the Club he was quite amusing without the
aid of italics. Mr. GILBERT CHILDS, again, as Weekes--Club porter and Admirable Crichton of
the island--though a little broader in his style, was too clever to force the fun.

The other sex, as was natural with women who affected a serious purpose, had fewer chances,
and Miss PHYLLIS MONKMAN spoilt hers by a bad trick of hunching her shoulders and waggling
her arms as if she were out for a cake-walk on Montmartre.

There were touches of humour in Mr. CUVILLIER'S tuneful music and in the limited movements
of the best-looking chorus that I have seen for a long time.

As for the plot, it had at least the merit of continuity and conformed to the logic, seldom
too severe, of this kind of entertainment, as distinct from the so-called revue. Nearly everything
was well within my intelligence, the chief exception being the title; for never surely did
a wild-goose chase offer such easy sport. The birds were just asking to be put into the bag.
I should myself have preferred, out of compliment to the chorus, to call the play "Wild Ducks,"
only, of course, IBSEN had been there before. Not that this would have greatly troubled an
author who showed so little regard for the proprietary rights of ARISTOPHANES and Sir JAMES BARRIE.

O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

WITCHES.

  "Finns, they're witches," said Murphy, "'tis born in 'em maybe,
  The same as fits an' freckles an' follerin' the sea,
  An' ginger hair in some folks--an' likin' beer in me.

  "Finns, they're witches," said Murphy, "an' powerful strong ones too;
  They'll whistle a wind from nowhere an' a storm out o' the blue
  'Ud sink this here old hooker an' all her bloomin' crew.

  "Finns, they're witches," said Murphy, rubbing his hairy chin,
  "An' some counts witchcraft bunkum, an' some a deadly sin,
  But--there ain't no harm as I see in standing well with a Finn."

  C.F.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR CYNICAL PRESS.

    "Mr. ----, M.P., is leaving home for a fortnight's rest."--Scotch
    Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

PROTECTION FROM BURGLARS.

FOR IDEAL AND OTHER HOMES.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE INCORRIGIBLE.

  Ernest was a sprightly youth
  With a passion for the truth,
  Who, the other day, began
  His career as midshipman.
  'Twas not in the least degree
  Vulgar curiosity
  Urging him to ask the reason
  Why, both in and out of season;
  'Twas but keenness; all he lacked
  Was a saving sense of tact.

  Once the Lieut. of Ernie's watch,
  Dour, meticulous and Scotch,
  Thought he'd show the timid snotty
  (Newly joined) exactly what he
  Wanted when inspecting men.
  Closely Ernest watched, and then
  Said, saluting, "Sir, I note
  Several creases in your coat,
  And I see upon your trouser
  Signs of paint-work; yet just now, Sir,
  Did you not think fit to blame
  One poor man who had the same?"

  Ere that outraged Lieut. replied
  Suddenly our hero spied
  Coming aft, his labours done,
  Our benignant Number One
  (Most abstemious is he,
  And, in fact, a strict T.T.,
  But--it shows how Fate can blunder--
  No one could be rubicunder.
  Ernest, after one swift glance,
  Said, "Excuse my ignorance,
  But, Sir, can you tell me why
  You are always red, while I,
  Even when I drink a lot,
  Only flush if I am hot?"

  Just as Number One grew pale
  And collapsed against the rail,
  Striving grimly not to choke,
  Ernest heard the busy Bloke
  Calling loudly, "Let her go!"
  To a seaman down below;
  "Fool! the cutter's bound to ram you,
  Push the pinnace forrard, damn you!"
  Ernest shook his youthful head
  And he very gently said
  Into his Commander's ear,
  "You forget yourself, I fear.
  May I ask what you would do
  If I used that word to you?
  Is it worthy, Sir, of an
  Officer and gentleman?"

  Aft ran little Ernest, only
  Pausing when he saw a lonely
  Figure bright with golden lace
  Who appeared to own the place.
  "Ah!" thought Ernie, "I know you;
  You're the luckless Captain who
  (Though you hadn't then a beard)
  Most unwillingly appeared
  But a year ago or less
  In the Illustrated Press."
  "Tell me, Sir," the youngster cried,
  Crossing to the Captain's side
  Of the sacred quarterdeck--
  "How did you contrive the wreck
  Of the cruiser you commanded
  When she bumped the beach and stranded?"

  You may say, "He is so brave he
  Ought some day to rule the Navy."
  Certainly he ought, but still
  I'm afraid he never will;
  For they talked to him so gruffly
  And they handled him so roughly
  That, when he was fit to drop
  And the kindly Bloke said, "Stop!
  Or you'll make him even madder;
  He is wiser now and sadder,"
  Ernest simply answered, "Ay, Sir,
  You have made me sad; but why, Sir?"

       *       *       *       *       *

ÆQUAM MEMENTO.

"I wonder," said Mary for the third time, "if we shall catch the tram at the other end."

"Calmness," I told her--this for the second time--"is the essence of comfortable travel. Meeting
trouble half-way--"

"It isn't half-way," she said indignantly. "We're nearly there."

We were on a bus whose "route" terminated some five miles from home, which we proposed to reach
by a tram, and, the hour being late, it was our chances of catching a car that were worrying Mary.

"Never get flurried," I went on. "If people would only go ahead calmly and steadily.... What
causes half our traffic congestion? Flurry. What makes it so difficult to move quickly in the
streets? Flurry. What is it clogs the wheels of progress everywhere?"

"Don't tell me," she implored. "Let me guess. Flurry."

"Exactly," I said, and at this point we reached our terminus. Two trams were waiting, one behind
the other, some thirty yards away, and, as we descended the steps of the bus, the bell of the
first one rang warningly. Mary would have started running, but I detained her.

"Flurrying again," I said indulgently. "Here are two trams, but of course you must have the
first one, however full it is," and I led her towards the second. As I expected, it was quite
empty, and I was still using it to point my moral when its conductor began juggling with the
pole. It was then that I realised that, though on the down lines, this car was going no further.
It was, in fact, turning round for its journey back to London, while in the distance the rear
lights of our last down tram seemed to wink a derisive farewell.

There was nothing for it but to go ahead calmly and steadily, and we did so. It was somewhere
about the end of the fourth mile that Mary asked suddenly:--

"What was it you said clogged the wheels of progress everywhere?"

"Flurry," I said feebly.

"Well, I think it's blisters," she said.

       *       *       *       *       *

FILM NOTES.

Those who are still inclined to question whether the cinema is to be regarded as a serious
force in the realm of Art should not only read the frequent contributions to The Times and
other newspapers on this department of the drama, but should bear in mind that quite recently
it has been stated that both the Rev. SILAS K. HOCKING and Mr. JACK DEMPSEY have taken part
in photo-plays. It cannot be doubted that the peculiar talent required for making the heart
of the people throb is being revealed in the most unlikely places.

       *       *       *       *       *

If proof were needed that the art of the film is a dangerous rival to that of the stage, we
would point to the five-reel drama, The Call of the Thug, of which a private trade view was
given last week. Miss Flora Poudray, who is here featured--her name is new to us--proves to
be a screen actress of superb gifts. We have seen nothing quite so subtly perfect as her gesture
of dissent when the villain proposes that he and she together should strangle the infant heir
to the millionaire woollen merchant on the raft during the thunder-storm. Patrons of the cinema
will do well to look out for this delicate yet moving passage. The film will be released as
early as November, 1921.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "MR. BALFOUR ON OUR WAR CRIMINALS LIST."--Daily Paper.

We simply can't believe it.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The amount of coal available for home consumption last year was 4,385
    tons per head of the population."--Evening Paper.

Then somebody else must have collared our share.

       *       *       *       *       *

"LIVE STOCK AND PETS.

    GENERAL, family 2; liberal wages and outings."--Liverpool Paper.

The difficulty with "pets" of this kind is that they are hard to get and almost impossible to keep.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "An Englishman usually finds it about as difficult to produce an R from
    his thoat as to produce a rabbit from a top-hat--both feats require
    practice."--Provincial Paper.

