CONTENTS

  BOOK III

  CHAPTER I. THE SUCCESSORS OF NEWTON IN ASTRONOMY

  The work of Johannes Hevelius--Halley and Hevelius--Halley's observation
  of the transit of Mercury, and his method of determining the parallax of
  the planets--Halley's observation of meteors--His inability to
  explain these bodies--The important work of James Bradley--Lacaille's
  measurement of the arc of the meridian--The determination of the
  question as to the exact shape of the earth--D'Alembert and his
  influence upon science--Delambre's History of Astronomy--The
  astronomical work of Euler.

  CHAPTER II. THE PROGRESS OF MODERN ASTRONOMY

  The work of William Herschel--His discovery of Uranus--His discovery
  that the stars are suns--His conception of the universe--His deduction
  that gravitation has caused the grouping of the heavenly bodies--The
  nebula, hypothesis,--Immanuel Kant's conception of the formation of the
  world--Defects in Kant's conception--Laplace's final solution of the
  problem--His explanation in detail--Change in the mental attitude of the
  world since Bruno--Asteroids and satellites--Discoveries of Olbersl--The
  mathematical calculations of Adams and Leverrier--The discovery of the
  inner ring of Saturn--Clerk Maxwell's paper on the stability of Saturn's
  rings--Helmholtz's conception of the action of tidal friction--Professor
  G. H. Darwin's estimate of the consequences of tidal action--Comets
  and meteors--Bredichin's cometary theory--The final solution of the
  structure of comets--Newcomb's estimate of the amount of cometary dust
  swept up daily by the earth--The fixed stars--John Herschel's studies
  of double stars--Fraunhofer's perfection of the refracting
  telescope--Bessel's measurement of the parallax of a star,--Henderson's
  measurements--Kirchhoff and Bunsen's perfection of the
  spectroscope--Wonderful revelations of the spectroscope--Lord Kelvin's
  estimate of the time that will be required for the earth to become
  completely cooled--Alvan Clark's discovery of the companion star of
  Sirius--The advent of the photographic film in astronomy--Dr. Huggins's
  studies of nebulae--Sir Norman Lockyer's "cosmogonic guess,"--Croll's
  pre-nebular theory.

  CHAPTER III. THE NEW SCIENCE OF PALEONTOLOGY

  William Smith and fossil shells--His discovery that fossil rocks are
  arranged in regular systems--Smith's inquiries taken up by Cuvier--His
  Ossements Fossiles containing the first description of hairy
  elephant--His contention that fossils represent extinct species
  only--Dr. Buckland's studies of English fossil-beds--Charles Lyell
  combats catastrophism,--Elaboration of his ideas with reference to
  the rotation of species--The establishment of the doctrine of
  uniformitarianism,--Darwin's Origin of Species--Fossil man--Dr.
  Falconer's visit to the fossil-beds in the valley of the
  Somme--Investigations of Prestwich and Sir John Evans--Discovery of the
  Neanderthal skull,--Cuvier's rejection of human fossils--The finding
  of prehistoric carving on ivory--The fossil-beds of America--Professor
  Marsh's paper on the fossil horses in America--The Warren mastodon,--The
  Java fossil, Pithecanthropus Erectus.

  CHAPTER IV. THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF MODERN GEOLOGY

  James Hutton and the study of the rocks--His theory of the earth--His
  belief in volcanic cataclysms in raising and forming the continents--His
  famous paper before the Royal Society of Edinburgh, 1781---His
  conclusions that all strata of the earth have their origin at the bottom
  of the sea---His deduction that heated and expanded matter caused the
  elevation of land above the sea-level--Indifference at first shown this
  remarkable paper--Neptunists versus Plutonists--Scrope's classical work
  on volcanoes--Final acceptance of Hutton's explanation of the origin
  of granites--Lyell and uniformitarianism--Observations on the gradual
  elevation of the coast-lines of Sweden and Patagonia--Observations on
  the enormous amount of land erosion constantly taking place,--Agassiz
  and the glacial theory--Perraudin the chamois-hunter, and his
  explanation of perched bowlders--De Charpentier's acceptance of
  Perraudin's explanation--Agassiz's paper on his Alpine studies--His
  conclusion that the Alps were once covered with an ice-sheet--Final
  acceptance of the glacial theory--The geological ages--The work of
  Murchison and Sedgwick--Formation of the American continents--Past,
  present, and future.

  CHAPTER V. THE NEW SCIENCE OF METEOROLOGY

  Biot's investigations of meteors--The observations of Brandes and
  Benzenberg on the velocity of falling stars--Professor Olmstead's
  observations on the meteoric shower of 1833--Confirmation of Chladni's
  hypothesis of 1794--The aurora borealis--Franklin's suggestion that
  it is of electrical origin--Its close association with terrestrial
  magnetism--Evaporation, cloud-formation, and dew--Dalton's demonstration
  that water exists in the air as an independent gas--Hutton's theory of
  rain--Luke Howard's paper on clouds--Observations on dew, by Professor
  Wilson and Mr. Six--Dr. Wells's essay on dew--His observations
  on several appearances connected with dew--Isotherms and ocean
  currents--Humboldt and the-science of comparative climatology--His
  studies of ocean currents--Maury's theory that gravity is the cause
  of ocean currents--Dr. Croll on Climate and Time--Cyclones and
  anti-cyclones,--Dove's studies in climatology--Professor Ferrel's
  mathematical law of the deflection of winds--Tyndall's estimate of
  the amount of heat given off by the liberation of a pound of
  vapor--Meteorological observations and weather predictions.

  CHAPTER VI. MODERN THEORIES OF HEAT AND LIGHT

  Josiah Wedgwood and the clay pyrometer--Count Rumford and the vibratory
  theory of heat--His experiments with boring cannon to determine the
  nature of heat--Causing water to boil by the friction of the borer--His
  final determination that heat is a form of motion--Thomas Young and the
  wave theory of light--His paper on the theory of light and colors--His
  exposition of the colors of thin plates--Of the colors of thick
  plates, and of striated surfaces,--Arago and Fresnel champion the wave
  theory--opposition to the theory by Biot--The French Academy's tacit
  acceptance of the correctness of the theory by its admission of Fresnel
  as a member.

  CHAPTER VII. THE MODERN DEVELOPMENT OF ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM

  Galvani and the beginning of modern electricity--The construction of
  the voltaic pile--Nicholson's and Carlisle's discovery that the galvanic
  current decomposes water--Decomposition of various substances by Sir
  Humphry Davy--His construction of an arc-light--The deflection of the
  magnetic needle by electricity demonstrated by Oersted--Effect of
  this important discovery--Ampere creates the science of
  electro-dynamics--Joseph Henry's studies of electromagnets--Michael
  Faraday begins his studies of electromagnetic induction--His famous
  paper before the Royal Society, in 1831, in which he demonstrates
  electro-magnetic induction--His explanation of Arago's
  rotating disk--The search for a satisfactory method of storing
  electricity--Roentgen rays, or X-rays.

  CHAPTER VIII. THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY

  Faraday narrowly misses the discovery of the doctrine of
  conservation--Carnot's belief that a definite quantity of work can be
  transformed into a definite quantity of heat--The work of James Prescott
  Joule--Investigations begun by Dr. Mayer--Mayer's paper of 1842--His
  statement of the law of the conservation of energy--Mayer and
  Helmholtz--Joule's paper of 1843--Joule or Mayer--Lord Kelvin and the
  dissipation of energy-The final unification.

  CHAPTER IX. THE ETHER AND PONDERABLE MATTER

  James Clerk-Maxwell's conception of ether--Thomas Young and
  "Luminiferous ether,"--Young's and Fresnel's conception of transverse
  luminiferous undulations--Faraday's experiments pointing to the
  existence of ether--Professor Lodge's suggestion of two ethers--Lord
  Kelvin's calculation of the probable density of ether--The vortex theory
  of atoms--Helmholtz's calculations in vortex motions--Professor
  Tait's apparatus for creating vortex rings in the air---The ultimate
  constitution of matter as conceived by Boscovich--Davy's speculations
  as to the changes that occur in the substance of matter at different
  temperatures--Clausius's and Maxwell's investigations of the
  kinetic theory of gases--Lord Kelvin's estimate of the size of the
  molecule--Studies of the potential energy of molecules--Action of gases
  at low temperatures.

  APPENDIX

A HISTORY OF SCIENCE

BOOK III. MODERN DEVELOPMENT OF THE PHYSICAL SCIENCES

With the present book we enter the field of the distinctively modern. There is no precise date
at which we take up each of the successive stories, but the main sweep of development has to
do in each case with the nineteenth century. We shall see at once that this is a time both
of rapid progress and of great differentiation. We have heard almost nothing hitherto of such
sciences as paleontology, geology, and meteorology, each of which now demands full attention.
Meantime, astronomy and what the workers of the elder day called natural philosophy become
wonderfully diversified and present numerous phases that would have been startling enough to
the star-gazers and philosophers of the earlier epoch.

Thus, for example, in the field of astronomy, Herschel is able, thanks to his perfected telescope,
to discover a new planet and then to reach out into the depths of space and gain such knowledge
of stars and nebulae as hitherto no one had more than dreamed of. Then, in rapid sequence,
a whole coterie of hitherto unsuspected minor planets is discovered, stellar distances are
measured, some members of the starry galaxy are timed in their flight, the direction of movement
of the solar system itself is investigated, the spectroscope reveals the chemical composition
even of suns that are unthinkably distant, and a tangible theory is grasped of the universal
cycle which includes the birth and death of worlds.

Similarly the new studies of the earth's surface reveal secrets of planetary formation hitherto
quite inscrutable. It becomes known that the strata of the earth's surface have been forming
throughout untold ages, and that successive populations differing utterly from one another
have peopled the earth in different geological epochs. The entire point of view of thoughtful
men becomes changed in contemplating the history of the world in which we live--albeit the
newest thought harks back to some extent to those days when the inspired thinkers of early
Greece dreamed out the wonderful theories with which our earlier chapters have made our readers
familiar.

In the region of natural philosophy progress is no less pronounced and no less striking. It
suffices here, however, by way of anticipation, simply to name the greatest generalization
of the century in physical science--the doctrine of the conservation of energy.

I. THE SUCCESSORS OF NEWTON IN ASTRONOMY

HEVELIUS AND HALLEY

