I have omitted to mention in its proper place one gratifying sign that those minor industries
which make so large a part of the prosperity of the wealthiest free communities, but which
are neglected by the coarse labor of slaves, and have been particularly despised by the Jamaica
planters, are now coming up in the island. Hitherto, sugar, rum, and coffee have been the all
in all of prosperity to Jamaicans. But in 1838, the pimento export was 2,708,640 pounds; in
1858, 9,465,261 pounds. In 1838 the export of logwood was 8,432 cwt.; of fustic, 2,126 cwt.;
of mahogany, 1,936 feet; of cocoanuts, 0; of honey, 0. In 1859, the export of logwood was 14,006
cwt.; of fustic, 2,329 cwt.; of mahogany, 35,000 feet; of cocoanuts, 712,913; of honey, 6,954
pounds. The ginger export has diminished from 1,834,120 pounds in 1841, to 709,620 pounds in
1858. This increase in the lesser articles of trade shows a brisker circulation in the capillaries
of the social system, a sure token of reviving health. Indeed, before the writer left the island,
that dreary uncertainty how affairs were turning, which prevailed for the first half of his
stay, had given way to the returning cheerfulness arising from the feeling that Jamaica had
touched bottom, and that henceforward, however slowly, her prospects were brightening. This
cheerful feeling displays itself in a late report of Governor Darling to the Home Government,
some paragraphs of which follow, quoted from Mr. Underhill's book, from which the writer has
derived so large a part of the facts that he has had to take at second hand, and which he is
glad again to commend as kindly, impartial, and full of carefully gathered and exactly appreciated
information. His conjectural estimates of property, however, are exceptionable, as decidedly
too high.

Governor Darling, himself a planter, says:

     'The proportion of those who are settling themselves industriously
     on their holdings, and rapidly rising in the social scale, while
     commanding the respect of all classes of the community, and some of
     whom are, to a limited extent, themselves the employers of hired
     labor, paid for either in money or in kind, is, I am happy to
     think, not only steadily increasing, but at the present moment is
     far more extensive than was anticipated by those who are cognizant
     of all that took place in the colony in the earlier days of negro
     freedom.

     'There can be no doubt, in fact, that an independent, respectable,
     and, I believe, trustworthy middle class is rapidly forming.... If
     the real object of emancipation was to place the freedman in such a
     position that he might work out his own advancement in the social
     scale, and prove his capacity for the full and rational enjoyment
     of personal independence, secured by constitutional liberty,
     Jamaica will afford more instances, even in proportion to its large
     population, of such gratifying results, than any land in which
     African slavery once existed.

     'Jamaica, at this moment, presents, I believe, at once the
     strongest proof of the complete success of the great measure of
     emancipation, as relates to the capacity of the emancipated race
     for freedom, and the most unfortunate instance of a descent in the
     scale of agricultural and commercial importance as a colonial
     community.'

Governor Darling's words suggest the exact reason why Jamaica may be looked upon either as
the most fortunate or the most unfortunate of the emancipated colonies. All depends upon the
point of view. If the largest amount of individual well-being and the most favorable conditions
of gaining independence and self-respect constitute a community fortunate, then Jamaica stands
at the head of her island sisters. If immense wealth, centred in a few, constitutes a community
fortunate, then Barbados is at the head. In Barbados the wealth of the planters is greater,
in Jamaica the condition of the laborers is better. The late Mr. Sewell remarked to the writer
that the common people in Jamaica had a more manly and self-respecting look than in any of
the smaller islands which he had visited. It is much to be lamented that the divorce between
the proprietary and the laboring interest was so complete in this island, and the consequent
industrial anarchy so great. But even this was better than the depressed condition in which
the peasantry of the smaller islands are kept by the hold that the planters have upon them.
Manhood is a better crop than either sugar or coffee, and in the long run brings all other
things with it. The article in the March number of the Atlantic Monthly for 1862, shows, in
brief compass, what inestimable benefits have followed in the smaller islands from conferring
the boon of personal freedom, even with so stringent a social dependence remaining. In Jamaica,
freedom has been more complete, and the recoil of the social elements from each other more
violent. The disaffection of the governing class has also been greater, and Freedom has been
left to take care of herself.[11] But though thwarted and frowned upon, she is at the last
justified of her children. Mr. Sewell has most happily hit the whole truth in a few lines:
'The crop' (of freedom), he says, 'appears in patches, even as it was sown, forcing itself
here and there through the ruins of the fabric which disfigures still the political complexion
of the island, and sorely cramps the energies of its people.' Governor Darling's words show
how rapidly the crop, thus negligently sown, is forcing itself into prosperous and prevailing
growth.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: Negro of West Indian birth. Creole, used alone, signifies a West Indian white.]

[Footnote 2: However, I should say that there are portions of Western Africa where trustworthy
accounts give to the negroes a widely different and far more favorable character.]

[Footnote 3: Mr. Underhill's account, so far as it goes, corroborates this description.]

[Footnote 4: It will be understood that I speak only of his remarks upon the economical aspect
of emancipation.]

[Footnote 5: Different estimates conflict as to numbers, though all agreeing in the fact of
an extensive and steady decline. I have used a statement which appeared trustworthy.]

[Footnote 6: This was an absurd and wicked expedient for keeping him free from family interests.]

[Footnote 7: This African epithet for the whites is said, in the original, to bear the complimentary
signification of 'devil.']

[Footnote 8: This is partly owing to the unwillingness of continued from previous page: the
negroes to remove to an unaccustomed place; but also, I think, to their rooted conviction that
the only security for their independence is in having possession of the soil.]

[Footnote 9: Hanover has about one nineteenth of the whole population of the island. But the
economical condition of the parishes varies too widely to make that of any one a basis for
a general estimate.]

[Footnote 10: In common, they are by no means either so tawdry or so ostentatious as they have
the credit of being.]

ABIJAH WITHERPEE'S RETREAT.

For many years Abijah Witherpee had kept, in East Hampton, the largest country store for miles
around, and by more than ordinary shrewdness had accumulated a snug little fortune, and with
it the reputation among the country folk of being an immensely rich man. It is no trifle, as
every one knows, in a small village, to be accounted its richest man, but that was the least
of Abijah's honors. It appears by record that Abijah maintained the responsible--and, since
Squire Adams has been gathered to his fathers, the solitary--dignity of justice of the peace
in and for the county of which East Hampton formed a highly respectable portion. It was not
the mere flourish of 'Esq.' at the end of the great man's name--it was the essence of the great
man himself. It found him, as he was proud to think, an ordinary, commonplace individual. The
good people of East Hampton saw what it had made him, and trembled. And well they might, where
justice herself, in the person of the magistrate, stood in awe of her own responsibility and power.

We have been told that, at the outset of Squire Witherpee's administration, he held his breath
at the thought of venturing upon judicial grounds with much the same uneasiness that the tyro
in science exhibits in some new and hazardous experiment. The honors of office had grown scarcely
a week old upon him, when opportunity offered for a full display of the 'feeling and perspiration'
(to borrow the words of our informant) 'with which he dispensed justice at the lowest cash price.'

It was bright and early one winter morning that two tall, raw old farmers drove up to the 'West
India Goods and General Emporium' establishment, and emerging from an avalanche of buffalo
robes, made good their way into the back part of the store, where the customary knot of hangers-on
was gathered around the stove, to drag through the day, doing nothing and talking politics.
A single look convinced the proprietor that he was wanted 'professionally;' he was informed
that they wished to have a deed executed. With great presence of mind, Abijah concealed every
symptom of growing palpitation, and led the way out of the store into the kitchen of his house
near by, where Mrs. Witherpee was busy ironing, and several little Witherpees at 'sixes and
sevens' about the floor.

Like all justices, he thought it of prime importance to be assured that the instrument had
been drawn up in proper shape, though he consumed about five times the time ordinarily devoted
to such preliminaries. His protracted scrutiny would have alarmed the parties in waiting, less
gifted as they were in the mysteries of legal lore, had it not been for a generous approval
that he gave at intervals, of 'Wells' and 'Ahems', in a tone that was intended to let them
know he was doing them a special favor to think so well of what they had submitted.

'Well, my friends,' he remarked, laying down the sacred document, 'it seems that at this stage
of proceedings, the statute requires that--' and then a pause which was solemn enough.

''Squire, hadn't I ought to sign that 'ar now?' timidly suggested one of the party. The 'Squire
was taking a hasty run over the pages of the 'Town Justice' for instruction in such emergencies,
but finding none, he kept on at a venture, and replied with native dignity: 'I decide you'd
ought to.'

While the 'grantor' was 'putting his hand and seal' to the deed, in the largest-sized penmanship
that can conveniently be displayed on half a foot of paper with all the advantages of a slant
up hill, the magistrate had arrived at the place desired, and was now 'in his element.' Kindly,
and yet with no lack of firmness, he is said to have turned to Mrs. Witherpee and observed:

'Wife, I think you'd better go into the next room and take the children with you!'

After this fraction of the family had been removed to a place of safety, the prudent husband
and father continued:

'Hold up your hands! You severally and solemnly swear that this is all right, true, and legal,
according to the provisions of the Constitution of the United States, and the laws and regulations
of the State of----. So help you God, gentlemen, and me, Abijah Witherpee, Justice of the Peace,
fee two shillings.' There is reason to believe that both parties experienced a sense of relief
when the crisis was over, and the requirements of the law had been satisfied.

Rich and varied as Abijah's legal experiences may have been, it was not on their account that
he has been introduced, but rather for the contemplation of his 'fine points' as a citizen.
He was never classed among those men who exaggerate to the assessors the value of their worldly
possessions; in fact, it was always difficult to discover where 'what little money he had'
was invested. There was one piece of property, however, of which he not only acknowledged himself
the owner, but publicly declared he never would dispose of, a threat that seemed harmless enough,
there not being the slightest possibility that any one else would be willing to hold such a
miserable waste on any pretext whatever:--a half acre down by the railroad, slabsided, full
of gnarled stumps and brake, and about equally distributed into rock, black mud, and water.
Had the original trees been standing, it must have approached quite as near the correct type
of the 'howling wilderness,' the horrida inculta, as could be exhibited this side of 'Turkey
Buzzard's Land, Arkansas.' Few strangers were suffered to pass by the locality in company with
any of the East Hampton folk, without having their attention directed to 'Abijah Witherpee's
Retreat;' and the opinion was apt to be freely ventured that at some period of his life, that
gentleman had come into what is popularly termed 'a tight fix.'

The place had originally belonged to nobody in particular, and one day fell into the hands
of a Mr. Jones, at a merely nominal price, in connection with a large tract through which it
was thought the railroad, then contemplated, would be likely to run. The railroad changed its
mind, as all railroads do, and Mr. Jones's speculation was not so profitable as he had anticipated.
It happened that among his friends was a wild, freakish fellow, Charley Davis, who undertook
to be on the best of terms with everybody, and had succeeded admirably, with the exception
of Justice Witherpee, who, he swore, had swindled him outrageously in a business transaction
they had together in getting out lumber. What made it all the worse, the aggrieved party used
to say, was the shameful manner in which the 'old reprobate' would publicly boast of it.

'I say, Jones,' exclaimed the Major (as he was called) one day as he sat smoothing off a new
ramrod for his fowling piece, 'what would you say to a chance of getting that old stick-in-the-mud,
Witherpee, on the hip? I rather flatter myself that I can do it.'

'Go ahead, my son,' said Jones, pleasantly, by way of encouragement.

'You own that infernal piece of swamp down by the railroad crossing, don't you? That air's
a valuable piece of real estate!'

'Well, yes. It's never been spoilt by too much cultivation that I know of.'

'I reckon I can just get a heap of money for that air; and what's more, I can have the satisfaction
of selling it to a gentleman who can appreciate it.'

'It does you credit, Major. That's what I call a genuine love of nature. It ain't every man
that sees the beauties of a first-class rural retreat like that,' and the speaker's countenance
was radiant with benignity--whether at the high-toned sentiment of his friend, or at the prospect
of getting the better of the 'Squire, it was difficult to determine. He thought it well, however,
to add: 'But I'd advise you to be mighty careful if you're calc'lating to run a saw on old
'Bijh. What's your programme?'

'You see this here interesting and valuable collection of gold dust,' said the Major, producing
a vial which contained particles of the ore in unusual abundance, and flourishing it in his
hand in a manner intensely theatrical. 'Belonging to a friend of mine, he donates it for this
occasion only, so to speak. It will appear, of course, to have been dug out of a piece of ground
belonging to that highly respectable and public spirited citizen, Mr. G. G. Jones. With a cupidity
not at all to be wondered at, I shall attempt to keep the matter secret and immediately to
make a purchase. I shall apply to Witherpee, as a man of wealth, to advance me part of the
funds, or get him, rather, to act as my agent in buying it, because you, Jones, a friend of
mine, would suspect me of being up to something if I should offer to buy it myself. D'ye see
the bait, now? Catch him playing off!'

As further conversation was modulated to an undertone, and accompanied with a complete signal
code of nods and chuckles, it is fair to presume that Mr. J. did see the bait--and was sure
of a good nibble too.

No time was lost before the speculator and his victim had their knees under the same table--with
a mug of hard cider between them. Mingled suspicion and avarice in Abijah's expression argued
well for the success of the scheme. As is often the case, his love of money was only surpassed
by the credulity with which he gave ear to new plans for satisfying it. He was slow to trust
Davis, because they had not been the best of friends, but the Major played his cards so well
that the old fellow did not waver long:

'All you will have to do is to hand it right over to me, you know, and take your commission
money. You see just as well as I do that it wouldn't do no how for me to undertake it on my
own hook.'

And the 'Squire said, 'Yes, certainly,' but couldn't see it distinctly either, and after they
had fixed upon the maximum price, and the 'Squire had feasted his eyes once more on the 'real
glitter,' and Charley had explained for the twenty-first time that the divining rod had demonstrated
the singular fact that not a bit of ground outside that particular lot was worth a red cent
to prospect on, and the 'Squire had once for all swallowed the whole story, and declared it
the most remarkable thing he ever heard of, he consented to act as agent in the purchase.

       *       *       *       *       *

For some unaccountable reason, Abijah Witherpee found Mr. Jones not at all in the humor for
a bargain. The land wasn't worth much, he knew, and it was very handsome in the 'Squire to
offer fifty dollars for it, but the fact was that his feelings somehow prompted him to keep
it: it was a silly idea, perhaps, but he had always thought, ever since he had owned the land,
that some day it would be worth gold to him.

'Gracious goodness!' thought Abijah; 'Jones swore that it was a secret that only he and the
diviner knew. Could this man have felt it out by animal magnetism, or anything of that sort?'
But his mind was at ease again when he was assured by further conversation that the owner was
entirely ignorant of the momentous truth. The 'Squire's offers were tempting, and, from byplay
and bantering, at last amounted to what appeared a perfectly fabulous sum. The upshot of the
matter was that the coolheaded Jones got rid of the wretched little lot for $490 cash. The
purchaser was now quite sure that he was the shrewdest fellow in that part of the country.

Just as had been anticipated, the agent's next move was to lay claim to the auriferous region
himself, and refuse to turn it over to the lawful owner. The Major exhibited a proper degree
of anxiety to learn the results of the interview, and appeared well enough satisfied with the
price--high as it was.

He was deaf to every proposition of the 'Squire, who was ready almost to double on the purchase
money; till at last the latter declared point blank that he meant to stick to the property
himself; that the agreement was verbal merely, and he would have ownership in writing, in spite
of what Major Davis or anybody else could do. It was in vain that the Major protested and threatened
prosecution for swindling, and called witnesses to the transaction. Before sunset, Witherpee
was the sole and indisputable proprietor of the newly discovered El Dorado.

It is hardly worth while to state how so extraordinary a financier succeeded when he came to
actual prospecting. It was currently reported that there was 'some pretty tall digging going
on down in that swamp lot.' It required a lengthy series of geological arguments, with practical
illustrations, to convince 'Squire Witherpee that the soil of East Hampton was somewhat feeble
in the production of the precious metals--except, perhaps, in a metaphorical sense.

When he talked of 'taking the law on those rascals,' he found after all that the best thing
he could do was not to move in the matter at all. Mr. Jones and his friend were no rascals,
and took pleasure in contributing every cent of the money to the town fund for supporting the
poor. Abijah Witherpee was since known to have acknowledged that though rather hard, it was
no more than he had deserved, and the change that was wrought in his dealings gained him from
that time no more faithful friends than the confederates, Jones and the Major.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 11: A gradual change is, indeed, observable, but as yet, it is only an incipient one.]

REASON, RYHME, AND RYTHM.

CHAPTER III.--THE INFINITE.

  The Divine Attributes are the base of all true Art.

No work of art can be considered truly beautiful unless it recalls or reproduces, even in its
finite form, some of the divine attributes; not that the work must treat of them, or consciously
suggest them to the intellect, but that they must enter into the creation of the artist, that
the immediate and intuitive perception of beauty, always attached to their manifestation, may
appeal to those faculties or instincts which ever answer in delight when these attributes are
suggested to the human spirit; for, consciously or unconsciously, the soul yearns for a clearer
view of the beauty of God. Leibnitz says:

     'The perfections of God are those of our own souls, but He
     possesses them without limit; He is the exhaustless ocean from
     which we have received but a drop; we have some power, some wisdom,
     some love; but God is all power, all wisdom, all love. It may
be received almost as an axiom that no natural instinct or desire can be
entirely frustrated, and as these desires for the beautiful are so
unfailing that they have not escaped the thinkers of any age, but were
held divine of old, and even in heathen countries, it must be admitted
that in these visionary pleasures, lightly as we may now be disposed to
regard them, there are causes of gratitude, grounds of hope, anchors of
faith, more than in all the manifold material gifts with which God
mercifully crowns the years and hedges the path of men.

We turn to Plato to show how clearly such ideas were held by the thinkers of antiquity:

     'Eternal beauty, not created, not made; exempt from increase or
     decay; not beautiful in one part and deformed in another, beautiful
     in such a time, such a place, such a relation; not beauty which
     hath any sensible parts or anything corporeal, or which may be
     found comprised in any one thought or science, or residing in any
     creation different from itself, as in an animal, the earth, or the
     heavens;--but absolute beauty, identical and invariable in itself;
     beauty in which, would they please the spirit of men, other things
     must participate, but their creation or destruction brings IT
     neither diminution, increase, nor the slightest change.'

Plotinus writes in the same spirit:

     'Let him who has closed his eyes upon mere sensuous beauty, advance
     boldly into the depths of the sanctuary. Let him reverently gaze
     upon the true beauty, the original type of those pale and fleeting
     images to which he may have hitherto applied the holy name of
     beautiful.'

We propose to consider reverently and with a humble sense of the limited sphere from which
we must regard the infinite, some of the divine attributes, which must, in the finite mode,
enter into every creation of artistic excellence. We begin our reflections with the infinite
itself.

Infinite--this word is by no means the expression of a clear idea: it is merely the expression
of an effort to attain one. It stands for the possible attempt at an impossible conception.
Man needed a term by which to point out the direction of this effort--the cloud behind which
lay, forever invisible, the object of this attempt. The fact is, that upon the enunciation
of any one of that class of terms to which 'infinite' belongs--the class representing thoughts
of thought--he who has a right to say he thinks at all, feels himself called upon, not to entertain
a conception, but simply to direct his mental vision toward some given point, in the intellectual
firmament, where lies a nebula never to be resolved. And yet to this very point, which the
intellect cannot define, are our spirits forever tending. No artistic creation ever fully pleases
unless there is given in it some suggestion of this mystic attribute, underlying and permeating
all other attributes of Deity. It is the dim unconscious feeling after this attribute which
causes the forever recurring dissatisfaction with the finite, which so ruthlessly pursues us
through life. It is the source of that vague but tender longing, that restless but dreamy yearning,
that haunting melancholy, which characterize human souls created for the enjoyment of the infinite;
divining and insatiably thirsting for the absolute.

Let us now attempt to trace some of the various ways in which this feeling after the infinite
manifests itself. Plato and his school tried to explain the existence of absolute ideas in
the soul by the hypothesis of its preëxistence to that of the body in the bosom of the Absolute,
the Infinite, the Eternal; and, consequently, that such ideas are but reminiscences of a more
perfect life. Enough that the idea of the infinite is certainly found in the mind of man, that
he seeks it in the material world, in himself, in God. High gifts may have been wrought into
the dim soul, which are destined to be gradually awakened through the growing perceptions of
the mind. Every spiritual being created by eternal love may have had imparted to him a ray
from the sun of eternal love, which, in its due time and place, is to manifest itself in his
consciousness. Such participation in God as the primary source of all that is to abide eternally
with the redeemed, has, in the present state of our vague consciousness, been described by
men who felt its stirrings in their soul as the memory of eternal love. It might more properly
be called an intuition of eternal love; such an instinct as leads the chrysalis to prepare
for the change which it certainly does not understand. Life, such as the beat of the heart,
the action of the lungs, is not manifested to the consciousness--neither is the source of this
intuition, which, however, gives evidence of itself by an intuitive feeling of incessant longing.
It reveals its presence constantly; sometimes in an undefinable feeling of profound desire,
satisfied with no earthly object, yet but vaguely directed to the eternal or divine; sometimes
in a profound and absorbing religiosity. This longing exists in an inchoate state; it is a
love yet to be developed. From this mystic root springs much that is intellectually great,
even the love of scientific certainty. Philosophy may, indeed, almost be termed the science
of longing.

Developing in its normal growth, it gives us our true saints; those who live but to love God,
and to serve man. But like all human gifts, it may be perverted. It is some such perverted
apprehension or illusory longing for the infinite, which causes a man to surrender himself,
heart and soul, to the despotic tyranny of some ruling habit, some favorite and engrossing
pursuit. Alas! it often leads the most gifted of our race to devote all their energies, thoughts,
feelings, to one faulty, fading, changing object, vainly pouring that worship upon the creature,
which should be rendered only to the Creator.

                     'He that sits above
  In His calm glory, will forgive the love
  His creatures bear each other, even if blent
  With a vain worship, for its close is dim
  Ever with grief, which leads the wrung soul back to Him.'

The despair which this feeling sometimes occasions in the perverted soul of one intent upon
feeding it with the gross aliments of the debased senses, is, without doubt, a very frequent
cause of suicide. It may lead, in the soul of the infidel or sensualist, to the idolatry of
art. It is a feeling, and requires direction. When enlightened by revelation and purified by
faith, it manifests itself in the sublime abnegation and ardent love of the faithful follower
of Jesus Christ.

This instinctive longing for the infinite, existing in the soul itself, cannot be satisfied
by any earthly longing, sensual gratification, or external possession. Made 'to glorify God
and enjoy Him forever,' man is ruined and eternally miserable if he refuse to fulfil the destiny
for which he was created. His misery springs from the root of his greatness; it is because
there is an infinite in him, which, with all his cunning, he cannot succeed in burying under
the finite. This is a pregnant subject; under this strange caption might be written the psychological
history of most human despair.

  'The Fiend that man harries
  Is love of the Best;
  Yawns the pit of the Dragon
  Lit by rays from the Blest. Eternity is the all embracing,
completely complete time; eternity, which is infinite not only a parte
externa, that is everpassing yet everlasting, without beginning and
without end; but also infinite a parte interna--so that in the
endlessly living, thoroughly luminous present, the whole past, also the
whole future, are equally actual, equally clear, and equally present to
us, as the very present itself. Can we indeed form any other conception
of a state of perfect bliss? Is the idea of a state of entire
happiness at all compatible with the regret that must be felt for a
blissful past; the consciousness of a flying present; and the fear of an
uncertain future? Yet the idea of time does not seem necessarily
excluded from a conception of the essence and operations of God. Does
there in very reality exist such an absolute opposition between time and
eternity, that it is quite impossible for them to subsist in any mutual
contact or relation? Is there no transition from the one to the other
conceivable? Is eternity anything more than time vitally full,
blissfully complete? If eternity is nothing more than the living, full,
essential time, and if our earthly, fettered, and fragmentary time is,
as the great poet says, 'out of joint,' fallen with man's disobedience
to his God into a state of strange disorder--it is easily conceivable
that the two do not stand apart so as to have no mutual contact. Those
who have seen a holy death leave a calm and beautiful smile upon the
face of a dying Christian, can scarcely help believing that the
beginning of a blissful eternity has impressed itself upon the rapt
features, actually breaking through the shackles of time before the
prisoner was emancipated from its fetters. And those brief intervals of
rapture which are sometimes experienced in the midst of earnest and
ardent devotion--what are they but eternity thus manifesting itself
through time in the soul? Those who have been rescued from the very jaws
of death, frequently tell us that the moment preceding insensibility was
crowded and filled with vivid recollections of the whole apparently
forgotten past--thus bringing into the soul in the midst of time, a
foretaste and interval of eternity! and those prophetic intimations of
things yet to be, which frequently break in with startling power upon
the human spirit, what indeed are they but sudden contacts between our
fettered time, 'so out of joint,' and the fulness of eternity? Men rave
against the justice of eternal punishment, as if its duration were not
essentially part of their own immortality! Ah! if the memories of the
deeds done in the body are essentially undying, were it not well for us
that the writing traced against us by our own hands should be nailed to
the cross, obliterated in the blood of the Immaculate Victim? that
mystic blood which has bathed the universe!

The innate longing for the infinite, with its accompanying intuitions of the eternal love,
and the yearnings for that fulness of time when the past and future shall live with us as really
as the present itself, are ever vivid within us, and are two of the great vital arteries of
all true art. This burning human thirst for the fulness of eternity in opposition to our fragmentary
time manifests itself in our agonizing efforts to bring back the past, to which sad efforts
we have given the melancholy name of memory; shows itself in our restless longing for the future,
which we call hope; and frequently reveals itself in an insane seizing upon something in the
imperfect and fleeting present, which it insists upon worshipping, in regarding as divine.
Upon this last phase is dependent all that excited, exaggerated, but frequently beautiful passion
of language which marks our poems of love. Ah! it is the merciful will of the Creator that
we should worship only the divine, and so the human passion ends in sobs and wails of anguish,
for the finite idol can never fill the shrine of the Absolute, the infinite God!

As the intuition of eternal love in the past, we find this longing for the infinite breathing
through poetry in the form of elegy; in sad recollections of a faded world of demigods and
heroes; and in the plaints for the loss of man's native home in Paradise, in the faint and
dying echoes of the happy innocence of creation before the first outbreak of evil, and the
consequent misery of nature. Poetry is indeed so full of haunting, melancholy memories, that
it might almost be called the 'mind's supersensuous recollection of the eternal.' And what
else can be said of music? Is it not an art eminently addressed to this intuition of eternal
love, this constant longing for the infinite? Do not its giddy flights and dying falls at once
arouse this mystic yearning, seeking, feeling, which may appropriately be termed the passion
of the soul? That music holds some deep relation to the soul not yet clearly developed, may
be inferred, not only from the magic power it sways over our spirits, but from the fact that
the inspired writers picture it among the joys of heaven. It is now the language of our 'divine
despair;' it is yet to be the speech of our eternal beatitude!

'God is love:' through all the hidden veins of ever-germing life beats this divine pulse of
universal being. Hope, faith, and charity spring from the revelation and answering intuitions
of this blissful love: from the hope, faith, and love of men sprang all the really noble works
of art. All this is full of consolation, 'though inward far we be'--even the mournful memory
of a past of celestial innocence becomes the harbinger of a divine hope. Let the poet then
still sing of the past; like the glories of the setting sun flushing down the golden west,
it but whispers of a more glorious rise in the mythic east. The root of art springs from the
intuitions of eternal love; its leaves, flowers, and fruit, are faith, hope, and charity. May
the rapt artist ever remember that the beauty of this earth was not intended to satisfy the
requisitions of his longing soul, but to awaken and nourish in it the love of eternal beauty!

A golden thread of glories yet to be, twines through the woof of this our mortal life, and
by tracing its wavy lines of glittering brilliancy, shining even through the dim symbolism
of matter, many secrets of the life to come may be divined. The arts may be regarded as significant
hieroglyphics of delights yet to be fulfilled in other spheres of being. The living pulse of
omnipotence, the heart of God, beats sensibly in the beauty of the boundless universe; it is
the fountain at which the young immortal is to imbibe his first draught for eternity. Not that,
as erroneously held by the Pantheists, nature is God, no more than Raphael is the pictures
he paints; but assuming the existence of a God as the creator of the worlds, what else can
nature be but a revelation of God and divine love, a visible and symbolic representation thereof
in matter; living, because His breath is life?

The following remarkable passage on the religious origin and consecutive order of the arts
occurs in De La Mennais' 'Sketch of Philosophy:'

     'The temple of art is an emanation from that Divine Spirit who
     fills it with Himself. It is the plastic evolution of the idea
     which man has of Him, of His nature, of His ways, as manifested in
     the universe. From its central sanctuary in which He, the unseen,
     dwells, this temple projects, extending itself in space in every
     direction; but by an opposite movement all its parts, closely
     united, converge to the sanctuary, gravitating toward the central
     point where their Head, their essential and primordial Reason,
     dwells; they struggle to penetrate its mystic veil, to mingle with
     it, to have their being in it, in order to accomplish the perfect
     union of variety with unity, of the finite with the infinite.

     'The art temple struggles to develop itself by a process analogous
     to that of creation. The surface of the earth was first clothed
     with vegetation, from the lowly moss and creeping lichen to the
     lofty cedar, whose solemn branches mingle with the floating clouds.
     When the earth was ready for their habitation, came the animals,
     gifted with higher life, with spontaneous motion, with instinct and
     sensibility. At last came man, endowed with the incomparable
     faculties of love and reason.

     'The art temple has also its vegetation. Its walls are covered with
     varied plants, which wind along its cornices and wreathe its
     plinths; they blossom round the oriels, brightening or deepening in
     the light; they twine through the nerves of the vaulted arch; like
     the liane of the cedars, they embrace the tall minarets of the
     heaven-seeking spire, mounting into the blue depths of ether; they
     bind the clustering shafts of the columns in heavy sheaves, and
     crown their capitals with flowers and foliage. The stone grows more
     and more animated, puts forth in more luxuriant growth; multitudes
     of new forms spring up in the bosom of this magnificent creation;
     when lo! at length man completes and embodies them all--his own
     noble image stands revealed--the rude, but white and glittering
     stone glows almost into life under the passion of his forming hand.

     'Sculpture is but an immediate development of architecture,
     proceeding naturally and organically from it. In proof of this, we
     have only to examine it in its first efforts. Forms, unfinished and
     embryonic, at first closely attached to the stone, growing by
     degrees in accordance with their own fixed laws until able to
     detach themselves from the medium through which they were
     originated, after having acquired the conditions necessary for
     their individual life, spring to actual life, to independent life,
     almost as the organized being springs from the womb of its mother.

     'Sculpture, however, represents but imperfectly the marvellous
     glories of God's creation. It can give but faint ideas of the
     various effects of light and shade, the constantly shifting play of
     colors; it cannot offer that full harmony of beauty which nature is
     ever spreading before us in the complicated scenes of life. To
     satisfy this want, a new art is created! Closely linked with all
     those which have preceded it, its development is but their
     legitimate expansion. The gray and stern arches, the hitherto
     colorless sky of the art temple, now take the azure hue of the
     heavens, while hovering cherubs look down from their cerulean
     depths; the relievos glow, and color defines, as it etherealizes,
     the works of man. Painting, at first absorbed in the plastic arts,
     scarcely begins to show symptoms of life until she is fully born,
     and living in her own distinctive form! As that power which
     develops the almost infinite variety of forms is to the universe,
     so is painting with its ever ready and vivid canvas to the temple
     of art.

     'Meanwhile the art temple has not remained wrapped in gloomy
     silence; and another series of developments, bearing the same
     relation to sound and hearing as the first did to light and sight,
     have commenced. As beings ascend in the scale of life, the forms
     appealing to sight alone, become less capable of expressing their
     nature. If the universe had been without voice, the highest which
     it contains had been shrouded in the pall of an eternal silence;
     but creation has a voice which is specific in every genus, in every
     species, in every individual. Transport yourself in thought to one
     of the vast solitudes of the New World--listen to the rustling of
     the myriad-leafed forests as they forever murmur on the banks of
     the thousands of nameless and unknown streams which ripple through
     them; to the clash of the impetuous torrents as they rush down the
     precipitous sides of the mountains to glide on from their feet
     through beds of soft moss or sedgy grass; to the booming thunder,
     driving, scattering, and tearing the flying clouds; to the
     intermingling sounds arising from the myriads of creatures which
     are roaring, bellowing, humming, buzzing, hissing, singing, upon
     the bosom of this primeval world--listen! this is the voice of
     nature, indistinct and confused, but majestic, solemn,
     multitudinous, full of mystery and palpitating with vague emotions.

     'As the art temple symbolizes the creation, is the plastic image of
     it, a voice is also heard from its depths, which rides upon the
     winds, and pierces afar off. The echo of an invisible world, it is
     solemn, mysterious, and multiform, appealing to the inmost
     feelings, rousing the sleeping powers, awakening the internal life
     of the soul, which without it might lie forever benumbed and
     silent. Corresponding to the voice of nature, it, too, is
     specifically marked, is individualized in every medium through
     which it is produced. Developing in unceasing variety, yet ever
     bound in the closest unity, language syllables air into thought,
     love. As soon as man mingles his voice, his speech, with that of
     inferior beings, the whole creation is enlarged, dilates and throbs
     with new and glowing life. A closer tie unites the two worlds--the
     world of phenomena and the world of ideas. Rising from the bosom of
     organic nature, pressing up like a bud closely wrapped in its sheaf
     of clustering and sheltering leaves, destined to indefinite
     development, the human word is born; it is named: Oratory, Poetry,
     Music! The art temple is now complete. Symbol of the universe, it
     represents all that is contained therein under the glittering veil
     of art.'

It is strange how, in the middle ages, the temple of art almost grew into one with the temple
of faith; to this fact may be traced the elevated and devout character of the chefs-d'oeuvre
of those dim centuries. Thus the church became a sublime poem, where the glowing imagination
of a tender faith lavished all its glories. That the Christian church then satisfied the heart
with its mystic dogmas and symbolic representations, is proved by the fact that the masses
did not care how obscure and squalid their own hovels might be, provided the temple was great
and magnificent. It was the temple of simple, unreasoning, unquestioning faith, but decorated
with the highest marvels of art; it was always thrown open to the people, and in it they passed
nearly half their days. Man brought what he held to be his best to the temple in which he came
to worship God, and in it was concentrated all the world knew of beauty. Its light but ornate
steeples seemed to pierce the very clouds; its columns rivalled the shafts of the forest; its
balustrades were exquisitely chiselled; its tapestry inwrought with the finest needle work;--all
gave evidence that the hand of love had lingered tenderly over every line in the house dedicated
by man to his Maker. The pictured saints and angels seemed to smile upon the kneeling people,
while the majestic chants and requiems sounded to them like the very voices of the angels,
heard from within the 'jasper gates' of the heavenly city. The white-robed and entoning priests
were their joy and pride; they, as well as the cherished artists, were most frequently from
their own oppressed ranks. Religion and art were alone then democratic; alone expounded to
them the original equality of man. Thus they looked upon these temples, which art beautified
for faith, as peculiarly their own, their refuge, their solace, their ark of safety in those
times of war and trouble. They earnestly and devoutly believed them to be the sanctuaries of
the risen God, in which dwelt his glorified Body. With the first rays of the sun flushing with
roseate hues the mystic beauty of the temple, they congregated there to receive, in the glorious
unity of a common humanity, Him whom the heavens cannot contain--the Son of God. They did not
think, they felt; they could not reason, but they heard the church. Naive, simple, and trusting
souls, with the Virgin to smile upon them, and the saints to pray for them.

It cannot surely be denied that art is full of indefinite and instinctive longing for the infinite.

Poetry is full of its pining voice. Chateaubriand says:

     'When we are alone with nature, the feeling of the infinite forces
     itself irresistibly upon us. When the universe with its
     inexhaustible variety opens before us, when we contemplate the
     myriads of stars moving in ever-mystic harmony through the
     limitless immensity of space, when we gaze upon the ocean mingling
     with the sky in the boundless distance of the far horizon, when the
     earth and sea are rocked into profound calm, and creation itself
     seems wrapped in mystic contemplation--an undefinable feeling of
     melancholy seizes upon us, unknown desires awaken in the soul, they
     seem to call us into other countries far beyond the limits of the
     known--must it not then be the vague feeling after, the dim longing
     for, the infinite, which at such moments we feel strangely stirring
     in the calm depths of the divining soul?'

We find the same yearning breathing through the following beautiful poem of Mrs. Osgood's:

  'As plains the home-sick ocean shell
    Far from its own remembered sea,
  Repeating, like a fairy spell,
    Of love, the charmed melody
  It learned within that whispering wave,
    Whose wondrous and mysterious tone
  Still wildly haunts its winding cave
    Of pearl, with softest music-moan--

  'So asks my home-sick soul below,
    For something loved, yet undefined;
  So mourns to mingle with the flow
    Of music from the Eternal Mind;
  So murmurs, with its childlike sigh,
    The melody it learned above,
  To which no echo may reply
    Save from thy voice, Eternal Love!'

It is to his fervent and fiery expression of this longing for the
infinite, characterizing, whether pure or perverted, almost the whole of
Byron's poetry, breaking out sometimes in imprecations and despair, and
not to his immorality, that his great popularity is to be attributed.
Even in the midst of the most unhappy scepticism, it was the haunting
passion of his soul. Alas! that this longing for the food of heaven
should have been fed on husks until the lower rungs of the heaven ladder
became so covered with the corruption of matter and fiery sparks of
evil, that it seemed rather meant for the foul feet of demons, than for
the elastic tread of the redeemed human soul to God!
      What
  Is this blue wilderness of interminable
  Air, wherein ye roll along as I have seen
  The leaves along the limpid streams of
      Eden?

  'Then stirs the feeling infinite, so felt
    In solitude, where we are least alone;
  A truth, which through our being then doth melt,
    And purify from self: it is a tone
    The soul and source of music, which makes known
  Eternal harmony, and sheds a charm,
    Like to the fabled Cytherea's zone,
  Binding all things with beauty; 'twould disarm
  The spectre Death, had he substantial power to harm.'

In some of the most forcible lines ever penned, Byron has given us the whole psychological
analysis of the effects of human passion, when, in its insane perversion, and misdirected thirst
for the infinite, it pours upon the dust that love and worship which is due to God alone. No
one who has thus sinned, will refuse to acknowledge their force and truth. Fearful in their
Medusa-like beauty, they fascinate the heart, only to turn its warm pulses into ice. They are
actually withering in their despair. Poor Byron! did he never, never cry with the repentant
but happy St. Augustin: 'Oh, eternal beauty! too late have I known thee!'

  'Alas! our young affections run to waste,
    Or water but the desert; whence arise
  But weeds of dark luxuriance, tares of haste,
    Rank at the core, though tempting to the eyes,
    Flowers whose wild odors breathe but agonies,
  And trees whose gums are poison; such the plants
  Which spring beneath her steps, as Passion flies
  O'er the world's wilderness, and vainly pants
  For some celestial fruit forbidden to our wants.

  'O Love! no habitant of earth thou art--
    An unseen seraph, we believe in thee;
  A faith whose martyrs are the broken heart,
    But never yet hath seen, nor e'er shall see
    The naked eye, thy form, as it should be;
  The mind hath made thee, as it peopled heaven
    Even with its own desiring phantasy,
  And to a thought such shape and image given,
  As haunts the unquenched soul--parched--wearied--wrung and riven.

  'Of its own beauty is the mind diseased,
    And fevers into false creation:--where,
  Where are the forms the sculptor's soul hath seized?
    In him alone. Can Nature show so fair?
    Where are the charms and virtues which we dare
  Conceive in boyhood and pursue as men,
    The unreached Paradise of our despair,
  Which o'er informs the pencil and the pen,
  And overpowers the page where it would bloom again?

  'Who loves, raves--'tis youth's frenzy--but the cure
    Is bitterer still; as charm by charm unwinds
  Which robed our idols, and we see too sure
    Nor worth nor beauty dwells from out the mind's
    Ideal shape of such; yet still it binds
  The fatal spell, and still it draws us on,
    Reaping the whirlwind from the oft-sown winds;
  The stubborn heart, its alchemy begun,
  Seems ever near the prize--wealthiest when most undone.

  'We wither from our youth, we gasp away--
    Sick--sick; unfound the boon--unslaked the thirst,
  Though to the last, in verge of our decay
    Some phantom lures, such as we sought at first--
    But all too late, so are we doubly cursed.
  Love, fame, ambition, avarice--'tis the same,
    Each idle--and all ill--and none the worst--
  For all are meteors with a different name,
  And Death the sable smoke where vanishes the flame. Nay, do not ask--
    In pity from the search forbear:
  Smile on--nor venture to unmask
    Man's heart, and view the hell that's there!'

Merciful God! how men suffer when they fly from Thee. When they refuse to listen to the sublime
voice implanted within, which calls them to Thee, forever reminding them that they were made
for things infinite, eternal! O ye men of pleasure, it is the very greatness of your nature
which torments you: there is nothing save God capable of filling the immeasurable depths of
your longing! How different the language of Klopstock, as already quoted: 'What recompense
could I ask? I have tasted the cup of angels in singing of my Redeemer!'

One of the most dangerous, yet most brilliant among the novelists of the present day, says:

     'Properly speaking, love is not a violent aspiration of every
     faculty toward a created being; it is rather a holy thirst of the
     most ethereal part of our being for the unknown. Tormented with
     intuitions of an eternal love, filled with torturing and insatiate
     desires for the infinite, we vainly seek their gratification in the
     dying forms which surround us, and obstinately adorn our perishable
     idols with that immaterial beauty which haunts our dreams. The
     emotions of the senses do not suffice us; in the treasure house of
     the simple joys of nature there is nothing sufficiently exquisite
     to fill our high demands; we would fain grasp heaven, and it is not
     within our reach. Then we seek it in a creature fallible as
     ourselves; we expend upon it all the high energies given us for far
     nobler ends. We refuse to worship God, and kneel before a worm like
     ourselves! But when the veil falls, when we see behind the clouds
     of incense and the halos woven by love, only a miserable and
     imperfect creature--we blush for our delusion, overturn our idol in
     our despair, and trample it rudely under foot. But as we must love,
     and will not give our hearts to God, for whom they were created, we
     seek another idol--and are again deceived! Through this bitter,
     bitter school we are purified and enlightened, until, abandoning
     all hope of finding perfection on earth, we are at last ready to
     offer God that pure, but now broken-hearted worship, which should
     never have been given save to Him alone.'--GEORGE SAND.

Thus is it that 'love's best interpreter is still a sigh.'

Let him who would in safety delight his soul with mystic intuitions of the infinite, turn to
that most exquisite of all poems, the Apocalypse, for 'blessed is he that readeth and heareth
the words of this prophecy, and keepeth those things which are written in it.' St. Jerome says
'it contains as many mysteries as words'--as many truths as mysteries--and these truths are
all revelations of the infinite. 'Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee the crown
of life,' says He who can bring thee into that heavenly city which needeth no temple: 'For
the Lord God Almighty is the temple thereof, and the Lamb!

The pantheistic feeling into which the imaginative mind so readily falls, is thus sketched
by a poet of our own times:

     'I seated myself, after sunset, by the water's side; nothing was to
     be heard save the dash of the waves as they broke upon the lonely
     shore; and I gradually fell into that state so well known among
     solitary travellers:--no distinct remembrance of my own separate
     being remained to me: I seemed to be but a part of some great
     whole, to undulate with the lake, to vegetate with the trees, to
     sigh with the winds, to blossom with the flowers.'

This feeling of the infinite so pervaded antiquity, that man almost lost the consciousness
of his own personality in the immensity of the universe, regarding himself but as an element
of the absolute unity of the world. His imagination fell into profound reverie, he felt himself
but as an integral part of a universal movement drawing all things to a single centre, confounding
all beings with one sole substance. We have only to open the Vedas to convince ourselves how
deeply this feeling pervaded the early philosophy of the Hindoos. For example:

     'Brahma is eternal, the only substantial being, revealing himself
     in happiness and joy. The universe is his name, his image; this
     primal existence, containing all in itself, is the only one
     substantially existing. All phenomena have their cause in Brahma:
     he is not subjected to the conditions of time and space. He is
     imperishable; he is the soul of the world; the soul of every
     individual being. The universe is Brahma--it comes from Brahma--it
     subsists in Brahma--Bramah, or the sole self-existing being, is the
     form of all science, the form of systems of worlds, without end
     forever. The universes of stars are one with him; they have no
     being but as they exist in the supremacy of his will. This eternal
     will is the central heart of all that is. It reveals itself in
     creation, in preservation, in destruction, in motion, in rest, in
     space, in time.'

Such an absorption of all things in the infinite, with the consequent loss of personality,
individuality, and all moral responsibility, had a most depressing effect upon the character
of the people who embraced this strange system. This is so manifest that it may be plainly
read in the sombre character of their architectural remains.

     'In their subterranean, vast, and dim excavations; in the gigantic
     proportions of their colossal architecture, always impressing us
     with sadness and with the nothingness of man; in their long, still,
     damp, dreary cities of sepulchres; in their half-shrouded and
     mummy-like statues, which, in their corpse-like immobility, seem
     struck with eternal death, or in slowly detaching themselves in
     their vast and unfinished forms from primeval and gigantic rocks,
     grow into a kind of dull, embryonic, and stagnant life, far more
     abhorrent than death itself--do we not clearly recognize the idea
     of the infinite absorbing all things into itself, crushing the
     soaring spirit of man under a blind fatalism, robbing him of all
     hope and aim in life, of the dignity of personal effort and moral
     responsibility, presenting as the only aim of all his glowing
     desires, the utter absorption of his own individuality in the bosom
     of the limitless whole--thus reducing the vivid action of his
     varied life to the stillness of the grave, without its repose?'

It is a strange fact, which we will view more closely when we treat of Unity, that the quest
for variety which led men into polytheism, or the fractioning of the Deity into false and wicked
gods and goddesses, necessarily forced man to the creation of a Fate, to which Jupiter himself
was subjected, more blind, more crushing, more appalling to the imagination (because while
retaining his entire individuality, man was yet forced to submit to its irrational and pitiless
decrees) than was even the hopeless fatalism consequent upon the pantheistic absorption of
the East.

What a step from the vague yet crushing, abstract yet deadening dreaming of a fearful and misinterpreted
infinite; from the cruel rigors of an unreasoning and implacable fate--to that full revelation
that the Infinite is a personal God, cognizant of the human, gifting it with a free will to
choose good or evil, and united with it in mercy and love through the mystic life and still
more mystic death of the Divine Redeemer!

In sculpture, the thirst for the infinite is manifest in the various statues of the gods which
it has given us; in painting, an art more closely related to Christianity, in the numberless
figures of angels and heads of cherubs, in the countless pictures upon holy subjects with which
it has presented us. The marble speaks, the canvas glows with human aspirations toward the
infinite.

It is certainly a very significant fact, too, that there must be a point of escape in every
picture, a window to let in the light, a glimpse of the sky: an idea of distance must in some
way be given, or the painting will oppress us like a prison. No amount of beauty in a nearer
form will make us content to remain with it, so long as we are shut down to it alone, nor is
any form so cold but that we may look upon it with kindness, so that it rise against the infinite
light of hope beyond. Gaze into Vernet's pictures: always sunrises or sunsets, calms or tempests,
nights of moonlight, misty horizons in which it is quite impossible to distinguish the limiting
lines--the infinite is always suggested in them: hence their hold upon the popular imagination.

It is really wonderful in how many ways this feeling appeals to us; it seems to be the background
of our whole finite being. Saint Pierre says:

     'The reason of the pleasure we experience in the sight of an
     immense tree, springs from the feeling of the infinite which is
     excited in us by its pyramidal form. The decrease in the different
     tiers of its branches; the infinitesimal gradations in its shades
     of green, always lighter at the extremity of the tree than in the
     rest of its foliage--give it an elevation apparently without limit.
     We experience the same sensations in the horizontal lines of
     landscapes, where we see row after row of hills unrolling one
     behind the other, until the last appears to melt into the blue of
     the distant heavens. Nature seems to love to produce the same
     effect upon extended plains or rolling prairies through the means
     of the mists and vapors so frequently rising from the bosoms of
     lakes and rivers. Sometimes these mists hang like curtains along
     the skirts of isolated forests, sometimes they rise like armed
     columns, and move in serried ranks along the beds of rivers;
     sometimes they are gray, gloomy, and motionless, sometimes moving
     with startling rapidity; their sombre hues changing into glowing
     rose, or penetrated and permeated with the glittering and golden
     light of the sun. Under all these shifting aspects they open for us
     perspective after perspective of the infinite into the infinite
     itself.'

Indeed nature seems never wearied in her varied suggestions of the infinite. That this has
been deeply felt by artists, is evident in their works.

No work of art in which this expression of infinity is possible, can be very elevated without
it; and in proportion to its presence it will exalt and render impressive themes in themselves
tame and trivial.

Our ideas of beauty are intuitive, and it is only in a dim way that we read the types, the
powers for whose immediate cognition we lost in the fall; but it is certain that a curve of
any kind is far more agreeable to us than a right line; may not the reason of this fact be:
every curve divides itself infinitely by its changes of direction?

What curvature is to lines, gradation is to shade and color; it is their infinity--dividing
them into an infinite number of degrees.

Such examples might be indefinitely multiplied, but having placed the key in the hands of the
reader, we leave him to unlock the treasure houses of suggestive thought, which he will find
profusely lying in his daily paths. This key will not only open for him many of the rarest
caskets in which art stores her gems, but will also unclose some of the ineffable wonders of
God's mystically tender creation. 'My son, give me thy heart!' is written in God's own hand
on everything He hath made. Thousands, feeling themselves in a narrow world while they unceasingly
long for the infinite, rush into rash and wicked suicide, that they may thus escape from the
contradictions and complicated pangs of the finite. The rays of light from the everlasting
sun of wisdom and love are indeed forever falling round us, but we no longer bear the prism
of faith which would decompose them for us, giving them such direction as they fall upon the
symbolic, the relative, that we might read in their three-fold splendor the symbolized, the
Absolute. The human soul was created for the enjoyment of God, and, consequently, touches the
infinite at every point, and the health and well being of the spirit are far more concerned
in its exploration than in any of the vaunted discoveries which it is at present making for
the comfort of the body in the material world.

As the limits of the horizon are constantly enlarging before the eyes of one who ascends a
mountain, so does the moral world, of which the physical is but the symbol, unroll its immense
perspectives of light and love before the gaze of the rapt seeker of truth.

  'Deep love lieth under
     These secrets of time;
   They fade in the light of
     Their meaning sublime.'

The infinite is the vast background from which all life projects; upon whose unity the immense
variety of the world is sketched. As understood or sought by the finite, it is the central
fire, the burning heart of art; it is the last line in all our horizons; the last shade in
all our colors; the last note in all our concerts; the alpha and omega of all true genius.
It aspires in the last sigh of the mortal as he lingeringly leaves its dim manifestations upon
earth: it lightens in the first smile of the immortal as its full fruition greets him in the
presence of his God!

'I am alpha and omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. To him that thirsteth,
I will give of the water of life freely.'

MRS. RABOTHEM'S PARTY.

AN EPISODE FROM FASHIONABLE LIFE.

  There dwelleth in sumptuous state and in Gotham
  A merchant of character surnamed Rabothem.
  His wife, once a letterless rustic in Needham,
  Now leadeth the circles of great Upper-Threedom.[12]

  There's nothing surprising in such a transition;
  For many a creature, of humbler position
  In the scale of creation, can shift its condition.
  For instance, the wriggling, despised pollywog
  In time may become a respectable frog;
  Then, perched on a stump, he may croak his disdain
  At former companions, who never can gain
  His present distinguished, sublime elevation,
  So greatly above their inferior station.
  And so, too, a worm, though the meanest of things,
  Becomes a most beautiful creature with wings,
  That bear it for many a sunshiny hour
  Through redolent meadows, from flower to flower.
  And surely if changes like these may occur,
  Ye men who have reason, how could ye demur
  At change in superior orders of nature?
  And least in a species so sure to create your
  Felicity (if it is not the reverse:
  In such an event she is rather a curse).
  No one, that possesses a spark of the human,
  Would think of opposing the progress of woman;
  But all would be happy when one of her kind
  A sphere more refined and exalted should find--
  Should gracefully 'merge from a chrysalis state,
  To bask in the light of a loftier fate.
  But (those hateful digressions, I heartily loathe 'em)
  I was telling you something of Mrs. Rabothem.
  She's a mouthpiece of Fashion. Whatever she wears,
  The closest and carefullest scrutiny bears;
  And, backed by her husband's munificent pile,
  Whatever she does is accomplished in style.

  A wonderful party was given one season
  By this excellent dame, for the excellent reason
  That wonderful parties were greatly in vogue,
  And a man was accounted as worse than a rogue
  Whose wife did not follow the prevalent fashion,
  And make what is commonly known as 'a dash' in
  The choicest society found in the city.
  (That the choice is not better is more than a pity.)

  The writer, who happened to be a relation
  To Mrs. Rabothem, though lower in station,
  Was blest in receiving a kind invitation--
  A delicate note, with a delicate scent on,
  Whose accurate, well-chosen sentences went on,
  In gentlest of terms, to 'solicit the favor,'
  Et cetera, and so on. She couldn't, to save her,
  Have been any more condescending; and so
  I gratefully reached the decision to go.
  And yet my decision was quite a concession,
  As I'll have to explain by another digression,
  In which, at the cost of some time and chirography,
  I'll give you a taste of an autobiography.

  And in its beginning, 'tis proper to state
  That, somehow, it chanced to be part of my fate
  To be born far remote from the populous town,
  And therefore, perhaps, I've a spice of the clown.
  Be this as it may, I acquired a taste
  For joys which, though simple, are equally chaste.
  In rural employments expended, my years
  Knew not the unnatural pleasures, nor fears,
  Which fall to the fortune of one who is bred
  Where men on unwholesome excitements are fed,
  And horrible vices their poisons distil;
  Where Peace, from her home on the verdure-crowned hill,
  The whispering grove, or the tapestried mead,
  With the bright troop of blessings that follow her lead,
  Comes seldom to gladden the wearisome hours,
  And raise to new vigor the languishing powers,
  But when I arrived at the age of discretion
  (I find I must hasten my rambling digression),
  With the popular error my mind was deluded
  That life is not life from the city excluded;
  So I followed the bent of my new inclination,
  With the liveliest hopes of improving my station.
  'Twas easy deciding, and easy to do it;
  'Tis easy, when thinking it over, to rue it.
  To Gotham the writer with joy was transported,
  Where people in lots, either mixed or assorted,
  Are found in abundance, 'kept always on hand,'
  Of every conceivable texture and brand;
  Exposed at the mart and awaiting their sale,
  Like the cotton that lies in the corpulent bale.
  A thousand of such may be bought in a trice--
  Some dearly, and some at a moderate price.
  I mingled among them; I met them on 'Change,
  And elsewhere, and surely it isn't so strange
  If sometimes, contracting to buy or to sell,
  I should be contracting their habits as well.
  But, though the temptations about me were rife,
  I kept from the perils of 'fash'nable life,'
  So that, at the time when my story begins,
  I never had placed in the list of my sins
  (Though often invited, declining each call)
  The crime of attending a party or ball.
  For, early in life, I was taught to believe
  That pleasures are pitfalls prepared to deceive
  By wily old Satan (who constantly tries
  To catch you by throwing his dust in your eyes,
  Thus, blinding his victim, securing his prize);
  That the dance is a maelstrom, where sinners are whirled
  Around a few times, and then suddenly hurled
  From daylight to darkness, from pleasure to woe,
  From terrestrial regions, to regions--below:
  But now was afforded a fine opportunity
  For taking some pleasure with perfect impunity;--
  Ostensibly pleasing a worthy relation,
  But really seeking a gratification.

  I went, and, arriving at nine of the clock,
  I found that the guests were beginning to flock.
  I could but conclude--though 'twas early, they said--
  That when folks go to parties they should go--to bed.

  Ere long the magnificent parlors were thronged
  By radiant beauties and gents, who belonged
  To the circles composed of the lofty élite,
  Whose presumption or pride 'twere not easy to beat.
  'Twas a splendid, a gorgeous, a 'glorious' sight
  To be viewed in that parlor on that winter night.
  There were beaux, who the finest of broadcloth were dressed in--
  Invested in vestments they always invest in--
  And belles, who assisted to fill up the scene
  With roods upon roods of their huge crinoline.
  Such flounces! they seemed to my wondering eyes
  Like Alps upon Alps that in majesty rise.
  The costliest jewels and handsomest laces
  Imparted their charms to embellish their graces.
  And the men seemed to float through the mazes of girls,
  Like sharks in an ocean of mermaids and pearls.

  But soon, as the evening began to advance,
  A movement was made to engage in a dance;
  And, being invited to join in a set,
  With a young demoiselle whom I never had met,
  I took a position to dance with the rest,
  And soon I was doing the thing with a zest.

  For an hour the divinest sensations were mine;
  But then my enjoyment commenced to decline.
  In halting to rest, I but wearied the more,
  So I finally 'vowed that the dance was a bore.
  Exhausted at length, I collapsed in a chair,
  And studied the various characters there.
  Together they formed a remarkable show;
  For further particulars vide below.

  There was Trickster, a merchant of physical leanness,
  Distinguished alike for his means and his meanness;
  And Sharper, a lawyer, with manners as courtly,
  And practice as large, as his person was portly.
  There was Aderman Michaels, the head of his faction,
  Who had learned, it was whispered, the rule of subtraction,
  And practised it often in 'grinding his axes,'
  Which helped to account for the rise in the taxes.
  And there was a man with a rubicund nose,
  As bright as the bud of an opening rose,
  Disclosing a liking to 'live and be merry,'
  With a strong fellow feeling for brandy and sherry.
  And then there was one with elongated face,
  Who seemed to have made a mistake in the place.
  Not a jest, nor a pleasure, was known to beguile
  His lugubrious countenance into a smile;
  But he moved through the dance, from beginning to end,
  Like a man on his way to the grave of a friend.

  Again, there was Simpkins, a clerk and a fop,
  Who sported a very luxuriant crop
  Of whiskers, cut clearly for 'cutting a dash,'
  And flanked by a stylishly twisted mustache,
  Adorning the uppermost part of the gash
  In his meaningless face, like a regular hedge
  Of russety foliage skirting the edge
  Of a cavern, containing a prominent ledge
  Of rocky projections, above and below
  (Though the charge was not 'cast in his teeth,' as I know).
  Arrayed, with intent to astonish the vision,
  In garments whose 'set' was the pink of precision;--
  His chain was of workmanship costly and cunning,
  And the stone on his bosom was really stunning.
  The taste of which no one could doubt his possession,
  Had found in his waistcoat a fitting expression;
  Nor less in his neck tie, 'a neat institution,'
  And collar, which threatened to do execution.
  A marvel, indeed--from the soles of his boots
  To the hair, that was scented and greased to its roots--
  A something for silly young damsels to scan,
  And sighingly say--'What a love of a man!'
  And then there was one sentimental young man,
  Got up on a rather irregular plan
  Of features and form, with a wandering air,
  A collar Byronic, and very long hair.
  'Twas whispered about--'He's a genius and poet;
  And as for myself, I was happy to know it,
  For a package of genuine mental precocity
  Is certainly always a great curiosity,
  And worthy the cost and the toil of a visit--
  Like Barnum's astonishing creature--'What is it?'
  (A good advertisement for Phineas, that is,
  And kind of the author to put it in gratis:
  I hope he'll observe my benign disposition,
  And send for the season a card of admission.)

  Of course there was that unavoidable myth,
  Who is everywhere known by the nomen of Smith--
  For there never was aught in the way of sensation,
  From a horrible crime to a great celebration,
  But that somehow, before they had time to get through with it
  Mr. Smith has had something or other to do with it.
  Now Smith was a sensible sort of a fellow,
  With a beard that in color was nearest a yellow,
  And a visage denoting his faith in the creed
  That man is a creature intended to feed.

  Another one still we must certainly mention--
  'Tis Mr. McFudgins, who claims our attention.
  In mould of plebeian he never was cast
  (His caste was of gentlemen, wealthy and 'fast').
  Not noted for morals, nor even sobriety,
  He always had moved in the 'highest society.'
  I had seen him so 'high' as to hiccough and stutter,
  And once I had noticed him low in the gutter;
  Yet he was a 'very respectable' man;
  And into whatever excesses he ran,
  His riches and impudence safely would carry him,
  And plenty of ladies were dying to marry him.

  The ladies assembled were wondrously fine
  (Young Sentimentality called them 'divine').
  So graceful and pleasing, I could but confess
  Not one of the galaxy wanted address
  (For dress was abundant, nor lacking in taste,
  Though the waist was reduced, there was plenty of waste).

  My attention was called to a dashing young widow,
  Whose husband, when living, knew not what he did owe;
  For he helped her attempt to keep up with the fashion,
  Which hurried him on to a terrible crash in
  His business, which tended to shorten his life
  And the means that were left to his sorrowing wife.
  She, taken in charge by a wealthy relation,
  Still lived in the style that befitted her station;
  Displaying her charms with astonishing care,
  In hopes of enticing a man to her snare,
  Who, struck by her beauty, might hasten to court her,
  Then marry, and afterward finely support her.

  Of many, whose fortunes were said to be ample,
  Miss Lily De Lusian may serve as a sample:
  She'd a smatter of French, and a languishing air,
  While of sense she possessed but a limited share.
  She played the piano remarkably well,
  And by all of her friends was considered a belle.
  And perhaps it was so, for she certainly 'told,'
  In the set where she moved, on account of her gold.

  And then there was old Mr. Spriggins's daughter,
  Who wondered that no one in marriage had sought her
  (A trivial bait would have easily caught her);
  And now she had reached the mysterious age
  When maidens are far less attractive than sage.
  By staying so long, she had come to be staid,
  And appeared to be doomed to be always a maid.

  The generous hostess was all in her glory--
  A fact it is fair to infer a priori--
  The costly apparel in which she paraded
  Was the best to be found in the store where she traded
  (The splendid establishment kept by a peer
  And the ninth of a man, as is ever so clear,
  If you only will notice the names on their palace--
  A fact that is stated with nothing of malice;
  For a Lord and a Taylor no doubt you will find
  A match for two men of the average kind).

  She moved through the rooms with a beautiful dignity,
  Conversing with all with the greatest benignity;
  Convincing her guests of a flow of geniality,
  As great as the stream of her large hospitality.
  Her dutiful husband was close at her side;
  And, though in his house, it could scarce be denied,
  He wasn't 'at home,' in the splutter and jargon,
  As much as in driving an excellent bargain.
  He suited his wife pretty well, for, at times,
  She found he was useful to furnish 'the dimes.'
  The most of his value she found in his pocket,
  And now he was playing the Stick to the Rocket.

  But while I was noting the forms and the faces
  Of those who were present--their faults and their graces--
  Reposing my arm on a volume of Tupper,
  I was startled to hear the announcement of 'SUPPER.'
  Rejoiced at the news of a change in the bill,
  I sprang from my seat with an excellent will,
  Presented my arm to a feminine guest,
  And marched to a neighboring room with the rest.

  O Ceres and Bacchus! would I were but able
  To picture e'en faintly the scene on the table!
  There was every conceivable thing, beyond question,
  That could tickle the palate and ruin digestion.
  Of course there were oysters in various styles,
  And sandwiches ranged in appropriate piles;
  And turkey was present in lavish abundance,
  And of lobster there seemed to be quite a redundance.
  The cakes on the board were amazingly nice--
  The largest encased in their saccharine ice,
  While some, that with nuts or with fruit were embellished,
  Expectant appeared to be tasted and relished.
  The light was reflected in many a gleam
  From mountains of jelly and towers of cream,
  With castles of Russes (I'd scorn to enlarge)
  Which, like Yorktown, were taken without any charge.
  And then there were several baskets of fruit--
  Of such as were held in the highest repute--
  With nuts, that in reckless profusion were stacked,
  And (like most of the jokes) had already been cracked.
  The liquors were all of the costliest brands
  (They had all been obtained at 'respectable stands');
  And as quickly were bottles deprived of champagne,
  As ever were clouds of their treasures of rain.
  Some lauded the Heidsick, while others concurred
  In the settled opinion that 'Mumm' was the word.
  The sires and the matrons, the lads and the lasses,
  Were pledging each other and clicking their glasses;
  And several gentlemen present were fain
  Their goblets of stronger potations to drain:
  On trifles they certainly never could bandy,
  So great was their liking for excellent brandy.
  For those who might happen to be in the throng
  Whose nerves should be weak, or their principles strong,
  A due preparation was graciously made
  In the shape of a bowl of the best lemonade.
  They ate and they drank, and they laughed and they chattered,
  They simpered, and bantered, and lavishly flattered,
  Till, finally, weary of such an employment,
  They left for the scene of their former enjoyment.

  And now, I had hoped there would be a variety,
  For dancing, I thought, had been done to satiety;
  But, as soon as the party reëntered the room,
  My hopes were consigned to a terrible doom;
  For I saw, to my horror, a body of dancers,
  Who were clearly intent on performing 'The Lancers.'

  Terpsichore ruled with unlimited sway,
  While, moment by moment, the night wore away.
  To me, 'twas an agony sadly prolonged,
  To stay in that parlor, so heated and thronged,
  And witness the sickening, senseless parade,
  Which people, who claimed to be sensible, made.
  I stood it as long as I could, and as well,
  And struggled my rising emotions to quell,
  But hotter my blood momentarily grew,
  Till objects about me were changing their hue,
  And, just as my brain was beginning to totter,
  I rushed from the room for some air and some water.
  Returning refreshed, my composure resumed,
  I awaited the end, like a criminal doomed.
  With one demoiselle I essayed to converse,
  Whose sense I discovered was not worth a--purse.
  Disgusted with one so insipidly brainless,
  I turned from a task that was tedious and gainless,
  Adapted myself to my strange situation,
  And buried my mind in profound cogitation.

  O Fashion, thou tyrant! adored as a god,
  By such as obey thy imperious nod--
  How mortals their 'sweet independence' resign,
  When all that is precious they bring to thy shrine!
  Thy altar they grace with the fruit of their lives,
  Themselves and their fortunes, till nothing survives
  To prove to the world that they ever were free;--
  Their souls and their bodies they offer to thee.
  And thou! how unworthy thou art of their trust!
  Thou givest them nought but a damnable lust
  Of silly, deceitful, contemptible show--
  A lust that is stronger as older they grow.
  For this they surrender their faith and their truth,
  The artless, ingenuous goodness of youth,
  The strength that belongs to maturity's years:
  Exchanging their peace for the paltriest fears,
  Lest something, they happen to do or to say,
  Should not be considered exactly au fait;
  Or lest their attempts should be wholly surpassed
  By others who claim to belong to their caste.
  Thy fiat, O Fashion, their questions decides;
  Thy wisdom all needed direction provides
  For spending their time in genteel dissipations,
  For cutting their garments, and--poorer relations.
  Controlled by thy will, they select their society;
  Thou art their instructor in manners and piety.
  And thus they obey the decrees of a power,
  To which, in a servile allegiance, they cower--
  A power that binds them in thraldom, and then
  Makes puppets of women and puppies of men.

  Reflections like these were absorbing my mind,
  As I sat on the sofa, or partly reclined,
  While promiscuous edibles recently 'bolted,'
  In assiduous dancing were carelessly jolted.

  The people about me my senses would strike,
  In spite of the facts, as extremely alike;--
  In physical aspect dyspeptic or bilious,
  In manners affected, or quite supercilious,
  In mind, rather flippant--of false education--
  In heart, scarcely worthy of recommendation.
  There was clearly a lack of the highest ability,
  With a splendid array of the 'purest gentility.'
  Of course I was not in condition to judge,
  And some would pronounce an emphatical 'fudge'
  At such an opinion as mine, and would scout it,
  Insisting that I 'could know nothing about it.'
  To which the narrator would humbly submit--
  He has written what seemed to his mind as a fit
  And truthful recountment of all that he saw,
  Without a regard for the general law
  For stuccoing statements, to give them, forsooth,
  A pleasanter face than is worn by the truth.

  The end came at last. I was glad, I avow;--
  As glad--well, as glad as the reader is now,
  When he knows that I'll shortly be making my bow.
  The company left, and I marched in the van,
  A wiser, though hardly a happier, man.

  Of course there are 'morals' attached to my poem,
  Though it may be a difficult matter to show 'em.
  Well, first (let me see, now), the foolishest passion
  Of mortals is that for obeying the fashion.
  It has been, and now is, a curse to humanity,
  A sinful, ridiculous species of vanity,
  The very quintessence of perfect inanity,
  And is likely to lead to a 'moral insanity.'

  A second we'll have, and I think that will do--
  (You will probably not recollect more than two):
  If you have any taste for the honest and hearty,
  Don't go to a GRAND METROPOLITAN PARTY.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 12: See account of the 'Prince's Ball,' given in New York, some time during the last
century.]

DIARY OF FRANCES KRASINSKA;

OR, LIFE IN POLAND DURING THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY.

PREFACE.

The following work is from the pen of Clementina Tauska, probably the most celebrated among
the female writers of Poland. Her talents and judgment were so highly appreciated by her native
country, that she was appointed to the superintendence of all the Polish schools for young
ladies, as also to that of the large establishment at Warsaw devoted to the education of governesses.

The Diary of Frances Krasinska paints in the most lively manner the usages, manners, and customs
of Poland during the eighteenth century, and possesses the charm of childlike naiveté, united
to acute observation and deep feeling. The authoress has seized upon all that is peculiar and
picturesque surrounding the heroine, and has laid bare before us a woman's heart in all its
strength and weakness, its love and ambition, its joys and sorrows.

Frances Krasinska, the daughter of a noble house, was allied in various ways during her life
to many distinguished personages, whose names fill a considerable space in the contemporaneous
annals of Poland. Remarkable for her beauty and intellect, she excited a passionate admiration
in the bosom of Charles, duke of Courland, prince royal, and son of the king of Poland, Augustus
III, elector of Saxony. This attachment, with its consequences, awakened a lively interest,
not only among the Poles, but also in the various foreign courts.

The castle of Maleszow, where Frances was born, was situated in the ancient palatinate of Sandomir,
now that of Cracow. It is said to have been a very splendid mansion, and may still be remembered
by a few aged persons, the actual building being no longer in existence. The journal commences
at Maleszow, and continues through the most eventful period of the heroine's life, principally
in and near Warsaw.

TRANSLATOR.

[We are happy to be able to offer to the readers of THE CONTINENTAL, an excellent translation
of this characteristic work, especially noteworthy at the present time, when Poland is once
more engaged in a struggle for independence, and occupies so important a position in the political
adjustment of the civilized world.--EDS. CONTINENTAL.]

DIARY

CASTLE OF MALESZOW, Monday, January 1st, 1759.

Last Christmas day, only a week ago, my father commanded a large volume to be brought him,
in which he inscribed with his own hand various public and private acts; the book is a medley
of speeches, public documents, letters, poetry, bonmots, etc., all arranged in order according
to their dates. This custom prevails among nearly all the Polish nobility. My father showed
us these records, and even read some of them aloud to us. I can write quite well in both French
and Polish, and as I am not at all averse to the use of my pen, I think I might keep a journal;
I have been told that many of the women in France do so, and why should I not follow their example?

I have bound together quite a large volume of blank sheets, which I will fill with my thoughts
as they arise, with minute accounts of all that concerns me or my family, without omitting
public matters. My father, a grave and serious man, regards little else than the latter; but
I, a very ignorant young girl, may be permitted to follow the dictates of my fancy, and the
capricious guidance of my imagination; at least there shall be neither pretension nor affectation.

To-day brings a new year, and is truly an excellent time for commencing my journal. In this
castle there will be no want of leisure. We have already said our morning prayers, and I will
finish my spiritual reading during vespers. It has just struck ten, and I am dressed for the
day, including the arrangement of my hair. I have consequently two spare hours before dinner.
I will note down to-day my reflections upon myself: I will speak of my family, of our house,
of the republic, and will in future detail all that may happen to any or all of us.

I was born in 1743, and am consequently sixteen years old; I received at my baptism the name
of Frances. I am quite tall; I have often been told that I am handsome, and in truth my mirror
reveals the fact that I am by no means ill looking. My mother says, however, that 'one must
give thanks to God for such a gift, and beware of pride; for it is His goodness, and not our
merit.' My eyes and hair are black, my complexion fair and well colored; but still I am not
satisfied: I would like to be much taller. It is true that my figure is slight and well formed,
but I have seen women of a loftier stature than myself, and I must envy them a little, as all
tell me I have attained my full height.

I belong to a very noble and ancient family, the Corvini Krasinski. God grant that I may never
sully so glorious a name by any unworthy action; my desire is to render it still more illustrious,
and I am sometimes sorry that I am not a man, for I should then have been capable of performing
great and brilliant deeds.

My father and mother are so fully persuaded of the excellence of their origin, that our neighbors,
as well as ourselves, all know the genealogy of our ancestors by heart. I confess, to my shame,
that I am much more conversant with it than with the succession of our kings.

But what will be the final fate of my journal? Will it live or die? Why should it not survive
through many ages, as so many letters and memoirs written in France have done? Oh, I must pay
great attention to my studies! What a pity I have not the talent of Madame de Sevigné, or of
Madame de Motteville! Perhaps I could write my journal better in French ... But no--that would
be unworthy of a Polish girl; a native of Poland, I must write in my national tongue. It is
true that French is generally used among all our nobility, but then that is a fashion, which,
like all other fashions, may soon pass away, and I should not like to leave such a blot upon
my memory.

If these pages should escape the rats and the rage for curl papers, and fall into the hands
of any one willing to read them through, I hope the reader will pardon my ignorance, and kindly
remember that I write without method, and am totally uninstructed in all the rules prescribed
for the keeping of a journal. I am but just sixteen, and the great little matters now occupying
so much of my attention, may in the future seem futile and unworthy of having excited so much
interest. What will a sensible, sober-minded reader think of all the strange fancies passing
through my brain, and the wild dreams of my imagination? But let us now return to the genealogy
of my family.

[Here follows the chronological enumeration of the Krasinski family, which we omit, as its
interest is purely local, and can hence be neither amusing nor instructive to readers not of
Polish origin. The Diary thus continues:]

Stanislaus Krasinski, starost of Nowemiasto, of Prasnysz, and of Uyscié, is my father; and
Angelica Humiecka, daughter of the celebrated palatine of Podolia, my mother: but this branch
of the Krasinskis will be extinct at their death, for to my great sorrow I have no brother.
We are four, and all girls, Barbara, myself, Sophia, and Mary. The members of our little court
often tell me I am the prettiest, but that I do not believe. We have received the education
befitting our position as young and noble ladies, in short, as starostines.

We are all well grown, and have been taught to hold ourselves as straight as reeds; we are
in excellent health, fair, fresh, and rosy. We have a governess, who is charged with the care
of us; we call her madame; and when she has laced us, our waists might be spanned, as the saying
is, between one's four fingers.

Madame has taught us to courtesy easily and gracefully, and to behave ourselves properly in
the saloon; we seat ourselves on the edge of our chairs, with our eyes fixed upon the ground,
and our arms modestly crossed.

Every one believes that we are quite ignorant, and cannot count beyond three; they fancy, too,
that we do not know how to walk, and are always as quiet as mummies. What would they say could
they see us running and jumping in the fine summer mornings? Ah! then we make up for all this
tedious restraint; we are so joyful when our parents permit us to walk in the woods: then we
leave our frizzed hair, stays, and our high-heeled shoes all behind us, and run about in our
morning dresses like crazy girls; we climb the mountains, and poor madame, who thinks it her
duty to follow us, soon loses her breath, halts with weary limbs, and can neither run after
us, nor call us back.

My two younger sisters and myself have never been far from our own castle. Our longest journeys
have been a visit to our aunt, the palatiness Malachowska, who lives at Konskié, and to the
village of Piotrkowicé, which belongs to us.

When my father returned from Italy, he founded a pretty chapel in that village in imitation
of the church of Our Lady of Loretto. He has also founded another chapel at Lissow, our parish,
depending upon Maleszow. My knowledge of the world is hence very limited. But my elder sister
has been more favored; she has journeyed to the ends of the earth; she has been twice to Opole,
visiting an aunt, the princess Lubomirska, palatiness of Lublin; my father is most tenderly
attached to his sister, and respects her as if she were his mother.

Barbara passed a year in Warsaw at the seminary of the ladies of the Holy Sacrament, and she
is consequently much more learned than we. She can courtesy to perfection, and holds herself
so straight that it is a real pleasure to see her; her carriage is admirable. I know that my
parents intend placing me at some seminary, and I expect every day to see the carriage which
is to bear me to Warsaw or Cracow drive up to the door. I shall be sorry to leave the castle,
I am so happy here; but my sister Barbara found her sojourn in the convent very pleasant, and
so doubtless would I. Meanwhile I must perfect myself in French. It is indispensable for a
lady of quality, and I must also complete my knowledge of the minuet and of music. I should
at least see a great city, and have something to remember.

As I have never had an opportunity of judging by comparison, it is impossible for me to decide
whether our castle of Maleszow be really handsome or not; I know that it pleases me very much,
but many persons say it has a melancholy air. It is certainly large and commodious, being four
stories high, and having four towers. A ditch filled with running water surrounds it, which
ditch is crossed by a drawbridge. The neighboring country is mountainous and well wooded.

My parents complain that their dwelling is not large enough, but then our household is so very
numerous. I said that our castle had four floors, and each floor is thus divided: first a hall,
then six rooms, and four cabinets in the four towers. We do not all live upon the same floor;
on the first we dine, on the second we play and amuse ourselves with the other young ladies
belonging to our household, and on the third, we have our own apartments. My parents, being
no longer young, find it irksome to go up and down stairs, but to me it is delightful, especially
before I have my stays on. I mount the balustrades, begin to slide, and in a moment reach the
bottom, without having touched a single step.

We always have a great many visitors, and I believe that if the castle of Maleszow were three
times its present size, it would still be crowded; even now it is so gay, animated, and lively,
that our neighbors call it the little Paris. During the winter our guests are still more numerous;
our cavalry captain does not then think it worth the trouble to lift the drawbridge: the new
arrivals pour in from morning until night--visitors are continually coming and going. The orchestra
belonging to our castle chapel plays unceasingly, and we dance as much as we can; it is a real
pleasure to see us.

In summer we have other pastimes; we take long walks, and play various games in the vestibule
of the castle, which is very lofty, reaching to the roof of the house, and lighted from above.
It is delightfully cool during the warmest days.

I do not believe there are many mansions in Poland surpassing ours in magnificence. Our little
court is composed of courtiers (dworzanin) and of the household suite (platny); in other words,
of many persons having various employments in the castle: the first (the courtiers) are the
most esteemed, because they serve for the honor alone, while the others (the suite) receive
salaries; but as they are all gentlemen, they all wear a sabre at their sides. Some few, however,
are of very low extraction, but my father says that 'a noble on his own territory (and remember
that this territory sometimes consists of but a very few square feet) is the equal of a palatine.'

No one objects to this, however, as the suites of the great lords are thus nobly augmented,
and they can control so many additional votes in the dietines; a circumstance of no little
importance. The chief duty of the courtiers consists in awaiting their lord's appearance in
his public apartments, where, suitably attired, they stand ready to serve him and execute any
orders he may choose to give them; but if the lord have no command for them, they are expected
to maintain the conversation as wittily and agreeably as they can, or to play cards. They must
also accompany him in his walks, rides, drives, and visits, defend him on all difficult occasions,
always give him their votes at the dietines, and finally, entertain him and all who belong
to him whenever an opportunity may offer.

Our little Matthias performs this last duty to perfection; he is indeed a singular person!
I have been told that all courts had formerly an attendant of this description, and that they
could not do without one. Matthias is supposed to be stupid and devoid of reason, but he judges
of everything with an accuracy and precision that is truly wonderful; his bonmots are inimitable.
None of the courtiers have so many privileges as he has, for he alone may speak the truth without
adornment or softening. The courtiers call him the fool, but we call him our little Matthias;
he certainly does not deserve the nickname he has received.

We have, besides, six young ladies of noble families, who live in the castle, and are under
madame's charge. Then there are two dwarfs; one is at least forty years old, and is about the
size of a child of four: he is dressed in the Turkish fashion. The other is eighteen, and has
a charming figure: he wears the costume of a Cossack. My father often permits him to mount
upon the dining table during dinner, and he walks among the plates and dishes as if he were
in a garden.

I think I mentioned that the courtiers had no salaries; nearly all of them belong to rich,
or at least to independent families. They acquire fine manners at our court, and their training
serves as a passport to all civil and military employments. They receive food for their horses,
and two florins a week for their grooms. They have also a servant to wait upon them; this domestic
is usually dressed in the Hungarian or Cossack costume. Nothing amuses me more than to watch
their faces while they stand behind their masters' chairs; their eyes are fixed upon the plates
during the whole of the dinner hour; surely not an unnatural proceeding, as their sole nourishment
consists in what is left upon their masters' plates. Our little Matthias is never tired of
ridiculing them, and makes us nearly die with laughter.

The major part of our household, however, receive salaries, and do not sit at the table with
us, except the chaplain, the physician, and the secretary. The steward and butler are on their
feet all the time we are dining; they walk about and watch if the table be properly served;
they pour out the wine for the master of the castle and for the visitors. The courtiers are
served with wine only on Sundays and festival days. The purveyor, the treasurer, the master
of the horse, and the arm offerer (renkodajny), whose business it is to offer his arm to the
master or mistress of the castle every time either one desires to go out, all dine at the steward's
table. The courtiers who dine at our table certainly enjoy much honor, but little profit; they
are served from the same dishes as we, but do not eat the same things. The cook arranges the
roast meat in the form of a pyramid; at the top he places the game and the poultry, while below
are the pork and the beef, the coarse food of the courtiers, to whom the dishes are not carried
until after we have been served, and thus the end of the table where they sit is called the
gray end.

When the dishes are first served, they are so enormous that one would think there must be a
large portion for every one; but they disappear so rapidly that some poor courtiers have scarcely
enough to give a flavor to their bread. There are some who eat in the most incredible fashion,
and who devour all before the others have had a chance to help themselves. On ordinary occasions,
our dinner consists of four dishes; but on Sundays and holidays, when we have visitors, from
seven to twelve dishes are placed upon the table. The young ladies, our companions, dine with us.

The salaried courtiers are very well paid; they receive from three to four hundred florins
every year; but then my father requires that they shall be well dressed, especially when there
is a reception at the castle. He rewards them largely when he is pleased with their services.
If one among them distinguishes himself by his zeal or his strict attention to his duties,
my father recompenses him on his name day, either in money or in stuffs taken from his own
wardrobe.

The salaried dependents are subject to the jurisdiction of the steward, who has the right of
reprimanding and punishing them. The chamberlains are also under his command; they are gentlemen,
and serve during three years. Their term of service begins between the ages of fifteen and
twenty. When they have been guilty of any fault, the steward awards them so many lashes with
a leathern strap. A carpet is first stretched over the floor, for the bare ground is only suitable
for servants who are not noble, and the culprit is then chastised. The steward is very severe,
and says that were he more lenient, it would be impossible to maintain discipline or pursue
a proper and efficient method of education; severity being necessary to restrain youth within
the bounds of reason. My father has told us that there is not a single room in the castle at
Maleszow in which he has not received correction. This is doubtless the cause of his being
so very good now....

We have a dozen chamberlains in our service; one of them, Michael Chronowski, will have finished
his novitiate on Twelfth day, and the occasion will be celebrated by certain ceremonies. It
is the chamberlains' duty to be always suitably dressed; they can enter our apartments; they
accompany us on foot or on horseback when we ride out, and are always ready to carry our letters
of invitation or our presents, whenever we have any to send.

As for the other servants in the castle, I cannot even enumerate them; I do not know the number
of musicians, cooks, guards, Cossacks, and waiting men and women. I can only say that five
tables are spread every day, and that two distributors (szafarz) are occupied from morning
until night in giving out all that is necessary for the kitchen. My mother is often present
at the distribution of the eatables; she carries with her the keys of the closets in which
are the spices, cordials, and sweetmeats. Every morning the steward presents the bill of fare
to my parents, who approve or change it as they find it well or ill.

Our every-day life is regulated as follows: We rise in summer at six o'clock, and in winter
at seven. My three sisters and myself sleep in the third story, in a large room with madame.
Each of us has an iron bed with curtains. Barbara, as the eldest, has two pillows and an eiderdown
coverlet; the rest of us have only one pillow and a woollen counterpane. After having made
a hurried toilet, we say our prayers in French, and then begin our lessons. Our tutor formerly
taught us to read, write, and count in Polish, and the chaplain taught us our catechism; but
Barbara and I are now entirely under madame's direction; our two younger sisters, however,
still receive lessons from the tutor.

At eight we visit our parents, to wish them good morning, and take our breakfast. In winter
we eat soup made with beer, and in summer we drink milk; on fast days we have a very good panada.
After breakfast we all go and hear mass in the chapel. Our chapel is very pretty. When the
service is ended, the chaplain says the morning prayers aloud in Latin; the whole court repeat
them; but to tell the truth, I have as yet neglected to ask the meaning of them, and some day
I must do it.

We then return to our apartment and recommence our studies. Madame makes us write, under her
dictation, lines from Malherbe, the French poet.

We have a pianoforte, and a German, who directs our orchestra, gives us lessons; he receives
three hundred florins every year. Barbara plays quite well. After the music lesson, the hair
dresser comes to arrange our hair; he always begins with the eldest. When he has unfortunately
heard of some new fashion, we rarely escape without shedding some blood. My hair is longer
and thicker than that of my sisters, and when I sit on the stool it sweeps the floor; the barber
consequently tries all his experiments upon my head. The present fashion pleases me exceedingly:
it is a kind of very elegant negligé, one portion of the hair is gathered upon the top of the
head and falls down in rich curls; the rest is in plaits, which hang about the neck and over
the shoulders. The barber uses a half pound of powder every time he dresses my hair.

We employ two hours in making our toilette; but in order that the time may not be entirely
lost, we learn French proverbs by rote, or madame reads aloud a new work, which is very moral
and quite amusing: 'The Child's Magazine,' by Madame de Beaumont. I cannot express how charming
I find these tales, narrated by a governess to her pupils. At noon the Angelus is rung, and
we go down to dinner, which usually lasts about two hours; then, the weather permitting, we
take a walk. When we return, we employ ourselves with our needle, and are now engaged on a
piece of embroidery for the church at Piotrowicé. When the daylight fails us, wax tapers are
lighted, and our work is pursued without intermission. We sup at seven in all seasons, and
after supper we have leisure to do as we please. We converse or play cards. Our little Matthias
makes such comical faces when he fails in getting the card he wishes! He certainly has the
gift of always making me laugh.

The chamberlain is sent to Warsaw once every week, and brings the letters and papers; the chaplain
reads them aloud to us, and to certain news I pay the most particular attention. My father
often reads to us out of the old chronicles, but I must confess I am much more entertained
by the books written in French. Madame, who does not know a word of Polish, always reads to
us in French, and we thus become accustomed to the sound of the language. My father only reads
to us one evening in the week. When the carnival comes, farewell to all reading; all then think
of nothing but of playing, dancing, and amusement. The festivals in Warsaw must be much more
splendid than those at our castle. Oh! how I long to see the magnificent array of a great court!...

But I hear the midday bell, and must say my Angelus, smooth my hair, and go down to dinner.
I will write to-morrow all that I had no time to say to-day.

  Tuesday, January 2d.

I was too much occupied yesterday with merely private affairs, and now I must dilate a little
upon public matters. I should be unworthy of the Polish name, if the interests of our dear
country did not occupy my thoughts in preference to all other subjects. I hear much conversation
upon politics, and I am very attentive to all that is said; since I have commenced to write
my journal, I find my desire to follow closely the course of events much increased.

Augustus III, elector of Saxony, reigns at the present time over Poland and Lithuania. He was
crowned by the archbishop of Cracow on the seventeenth of this month, twenty-five years ago.
The party opposed to his election wished to raise Stanislaus Leszczynski to the throne, but
Augustus was so powerfully supported that he triumphed over his competitor. The virtuous Leszczynski,
possessing neither money nor soldiers, was forced to return to his good people in Lorraine,
who are very happy under his beneficent rule. It is said that the queen, who had so strongly
encouraged the king in the struggles through which he won his throne, was truly worthy of being
queen of the Poles, for she really loved them. Mary Josephine always hated intrigue; she was
mild, charitable, and pious; she was indulgent toward her husband and children, but most severely
stern toward herself in all matters of morals. She was in truth a model of all feminine virtues.
She died in Dresden, about two years ago. She had had fourteen children, eleven of whom are
still living, seven daughters, and four sons. I remember well the sorrow which her death caused
the Poles. Funeral services were celebrated for her in every church in the kingdom. In our
church at Piotrowicé there was a mass at which all the poor assisted, and they wept bitter
tears while praying for their queen.

It is said that the king is of an easy temper, and leaves all to his minister Bruhl, the minister
really ruling both Poland and Saxony. The last-mentioned country is at the present moment exposed
to great miseries. Prussia, which is in fact but a new-born state, makes the whole of Europe
tremble. A great man rules her fate. The elector of Brandenburg raised himself to the throne
in 1701 by the power of his own will. Our republic has not yet recognized his new title as
king, and now the elector's successor is able to confer crowns upon the heads of other states.
He resists Austria, Saxony, Muscovy, and by means of forces raised within his little kingdom,
daily extends his possessions. All say that his political capacity and knowledge of the military
art are extraordinary; besides which, he is quite learned, a philosopher, and a great character.
Many think that Poland should be ruled by a man of the stamp of Frederic the Great, but as
we are not his subjects, and as his present position is contrary to our interests, strong fears
are entertained that he may in the future become the cause of our ruin. God grant that Prussia,
which is really but a fraction of Poland, do not one day swallow her up!...

The men occupied in public affairs scarcely venture to speak above their breath when they bewail
the critical position of their beloved country. One circumstance especially seems to deprive
us of all hope for the future, and that is, the apparent gradual extinction of those lofty
virtues of the olden time which formerly contributed so much to the glory and prosperity of
our country. Selfish interests seem now to have destroyed them nearly all; the wants of the
common mother are entirely forgotten, no one thinks now except of his own personal benefit--the
general cause is nothing. The diets assemble and disperse without having accomplished anything.
The voice of Konarski and of his honorable friends is heard in vain; they preach in a desert;
the vile passions of the wicked weigh heavily in the balance of our destinies. However, all
means of safety are not yet lost: the throne of Poland is elective; the reigning monarch is
aged; if his successor should be endowed with a great character, if his virtues accord with
the elevation of his station, he may yet save the republic and restore it to its ancient preponderance
among nations. Our frontiers are still unbroken, and I place all my hope in the mercy of God.

All good men and true patriots desire a king capable of commanding the Poles. Several candidates
have already been proposed, but the two who seem to have the fairest prospects of success are
Stanislaus Poniatowski, son of the castellan of Cracow, and Charles, prince royal, son of the
reigning king. Poniatowski's father was the favorite of Charles XII, and was much beloved by
the princess Czartoryska. I cannot tell though why my heart leans so strongly toward prince
Charles. Poniatowski is a Pole, but the other is said to possess many noble qualities. I will
here add all that I have heard and thought upon the subject of these two candidates.

Stanislaus Poniatowski is young and very handsome, affable, and fascinating; he has travelled
much, his manners have all the elegance of the French, and he is generally pleasing to women.
He loves science and learned men; he was more than four years in St. Petersburg in the capacity
of secretary to the embassy. Some time has elapsed since his recall, and he is in high favor
at court; hence the probability of his future elevation.

Charles, the prince royal, is twenty-six years of age; he is the king's third son, and is beloved
by all who approach him. His figure is said to be noble, and his face most pleasing in expression;
his manners are mild, and he is very accessible; he wins all hearts to love him. He has lived
in Poland since his infancy, and hence loves the people, and speaks their language wonderfully
well. Educated at the court of our republic, he is neither proud nor humble, but maintains
a happy medium with every one. The king, recognizing all these qualities in his son, sent him
to many foreign courts, beginning with that of St. Petersburg. Relying upon the aid of Muscovy,
he desired that his son should make his first essay in arms under that power; besides which,
he had other ends in view. He hoped that Charles would be made duke of Courland, a duchy tributary
to Poland. In 1737 the czarina Anna appointed the count de Biren governor of Courland, but
some years later he fell into disgrace, and was sent to Siberia with his family. The dukedom
was consequently vacant during several years.

Our king, who had the right so to do, conferred the dignity upon his son, but the sanction
of the court of St. Petersburg was required, and no one could have been more likely to obtain
what he desired than the prince royal himself, for the fascination of his manners had become
proverbial. He accordingly went to St. Petersburg, remaining on his way some time at Mittau,
the capital of Courland, where he succeeded in winning the esteem and affection of the inhabitants
of the duchy. The czarina soon after confirmed the nomination of the prince royal. Her consent
was formally announced to the king of Poland during the past year, at the time of the session
of the diet. But according to the fatal custom which so often rends our councils, that assemblage
was dissolved by a nuncio from Wolhynia named Podhorski, and the affair in which Courland was
so deeply interested was not discussed.

It then became necessary to refer it to the senate, where it occasioned many fierce debates.
The prince Czartoryski especially endeavored to embroil the question by maintaining that the
king had no right to dispose of the duchy without the consent of the diet; that Biren could
not be degraded from the dignity conferred upon him without having been properly tried, judged,
and condemned; and finally, that the nomination of the prince royal could only be provisional,
or valid during the lifetime of the czarina. These foolish clamors were rendered powerless
by an imposing majority; one hundred and twenty-eight white balls, against five black ones,
decided in favor of Prince Charles. The diploma has already been presented to him by the grand
chancellor of the crown, and the ceremony of investiture takes place to-day. The rejoicings
in Warsaw must be truly magnificent, and I am quite sure that all are delighted.

It is said that the king has grown ten years younger since the happy termination of this affair.
I cannot judge of the importance of these events to the general welfare of the republic, but
I am enchanted with the good fortune of Prince Charles. I ask myself continually why this matter
interests me so deeply. The destiny of my country may soon depend upon the prince, and I believe
him called to avert the storm which seems ready to burst upon Poland. I believe that he will
give us better laws and a good government. The dukedom of Courland will serve him as a stepping
stone to the throne. I am truly grieved from the bottom of my heart that I cannot now be in
Warsaw, where I should see such brilliant fêtes, a splendid court, and Prince Charles. ...
But since that is impossible, I must content myself with drinking his health to-day at our table.

THE LADIES' LOYAL LEAGUE

As men led the way in the formation of a Loyal League throughout the country, many women, in
view of an association of their sex under that name, seem to think themselves required to adopt
ideas and regulations approaching as closely as may be to those already existing in the male
League. But as, in private life, woman's duties, though equally important, are not identical
with those of man, so whenever in a community there is call for united, and therefore public
action on the part of its females, it is because something is necessary to be done which men
by their methods cannot do; consequently, in performing it, our sex, by striving to merely
imitate, without regard to uses, the machinery or measures of the other, would but defeat their
own objects. This can be realized when we reflect on the fact that the public action of man
has always a tendency to be directive of measures political or governmental, while that of
woman is more legitimately humanitarian or social.

There is a class of thinking women who are very earnest and undoubtedly conscientious in their
misapprehension of the existence of this fact. And so great is the restless tumult of their
indignation at their supposed wrongs in not exercising direct influence, political and governmental,
that they fail, either to perceive their own particular work--sufficient in itself to occupy
all their faculties--or else they confound the sphere of society with the sphere of government,
imagine they are not responsible for errors existing in the former, because they have no immediate
control in the latter, and that in political matters at least, justice requires the direct
action of both sexes; whereas, according to the natural laws of adaptation of means to ends,
the special control of government on the one hand, and of society on the other, is distinctly
divided between them; so that while the existing government is an organized expression of the
manhood of the age that founded it, the existing society is a like expression of the womanhood
of the time. Society and government, through the inevitable laws of sympathy and reaction between
things closely connected, influence, modify, and constantly change each other. But any special
interference on the part of one sex with the direct action of the other in its own province,
not only impedes the other, but also argues a neglect of legitimate duties, which, it were
well to remember, require for their just performance all the energy, intellect, and moral elevation,
each for its own sphere, possessed by the respective manhood and womanhood of the community
interested.

Although aware that the various circles of the Ladies' Loyal League, already established, entertain
ideas which are in some respects, because of this existing confusion as to duties, political
and social, dissimilar to each other, yet we believe the one grand moral aim, on the part of
the several branches of the organization everywhere, will finally be the fostering a healthy,
intelligent patriotism, in the social and domestic circles of our land; and that, through the
aggregate influence of a womanhood true to itself and its own work.

If this conviction be founded in fact, the best method by which such a patriotism can be cultivated
becomes a topic of lively interest to every woman in America who loves her country. Therefore
to all such the following brief consideration of a subject so intrinsically important, will
not, we trust, seem untimely.

We proceed then to respectfully suggest to the ladies of the Loyal League some measures and
ideas, which, it is hoped, will prove in their judgment not unworthy of general adoption, in
the various branches of our association.

In enumerating methods whereby it is believed our sex has preëminent capacity to cultivate
a genuine patriotism in our country, we will, as first in order, mention those easily recognized
ones already generally understood.

As members of the Ladies' Loyal League, we can do good service, first, by cheering, honoring,
and aiding in every fit way, and by every legitimate means, such men, privates no less than
officers, as are our country's brave defenders, or as have been wounded in being such. Second,
by encouraging new enlistments, and taking pride in seeing the dear members of our own households
go forth to the help of our imperilled country. Third, by paying special honor to such women
in our midst, as have sent son or husband or father or any near relative to camp life and battle
field, in defence of our free institutions. In ordinary times, and in ordinary society, individuals
take grade according to active intelligence, or the show of wealth, but in times like the present--and
especially in an association whose awakening principle is patriotism, those persons who have
made the greatest sacrifices for country should rank first. Indeed is it not advisable that
the League confer honorary distinction on every woman who has given up such near relatives
as son or husband to the dangers of this bloody war? So long as the United States is in her
present condition, so long must we, as patriots, honor our soldiers, encourage enlistments,
and pay our tribute of respectful admiration to those of our own sex whose beloved ones have
already laid down their lives, or are now offering their lives in our national defence.

Another moral aim of our League, as explicitly stated in many of the pledges signed throughout
the country, is to frown on all traitors and all such as we know to be sympathizers with them.
We hope no one's displeasure, will be aroused by a word here. It is very true, no warmly patriotic
woman can now, in the present hour of peril, cordially associate with such persons as offensively
intrude their treasonable sentiments. But let the patriotic woman not go too far--let her not
forget that when human beings give, as it were, a moral sanction to feelings of hatred or contempt,
they unchain a demon in their breasts. We are all oftentimes shocked by anecdotes illustrative
of the rancorous spite, and vulgar, unwomanly malignity, cherished by many Southern females
against the Union and its defenders. Now were it not well for us, on the other side, to take
warning, and, for the sake of our own peace of mind, our own dignity of character, our own
Christian virtues, not fall into the fallacy of thinking it right to indulge in feelings and
words of hate, even toward the criminally disloyal. This topic is one involving so much of
social and personal happiness, we are tempted to enlarge upon it; but as all our remarks at
this time are intended as mere hints and suggestions, and not as an elaborate discussion, we
pass on to another method of fostering a healthy living patriotism--the fifth and last of those
to which we now direct attention, but the one evidently the most difficult, and yet for final
results the most important of all. It is the cultivation, in American women, of a true understanding
and appreciation of the principles of our democratic institutions--with a view to their practical
social bearing, and consequent obligations upon our sex.

Two years ago, a distinguished English philosopher and historian, lately deceased, expressed
the fear that our American system of government was in advance of the culture of democratic
ideas among our people. Doubtless this observation took the shape of a fear because its author
was cognizant of the truth that when the spirit of a government fails to be continually nourished
by a sympathetic spirit in the prevailing tone of society throughout the nation over which
it presides, then the government has small assurance of perpetuity.

Being patriots, and having, as women, so much to do with matters social and educational, would
it not be desirable to understand clearly wherein the foundation principles of our government
differ from that of despotisms and monarchies, and to ascertain whether our practical life--our
society--is in conformity with our own vaunted democracy or not?

Now the principles upon which our republic was founded teach that one person has no right to
trample on the rights of another--that we can have no aristocratic order--that he who labors
with head or hand is intrinsically more honorable than the mere idler and pleasure seeker,
however wealthy--that legally neither birth nor riches confer any special privileges. And in
all this the spirit of our American government is in direct opposition to the spirit of monarchical
institutions. But how is it with American society, in the moulding and directing of which our
sex has so much to do?

However opposed to each other democratic and republican partisans may feel, the titles of their
parties are terms which imply principles synonymous--and alike in harmony with the genius our
government. But examine society among these parties. Mix with the social circles of our capitals,
during the meetings of our State Legislatures or sessions of Congress, when democratic ladies
are in the ascendency: make another visit when the ladies of republicans are leading society
in the same places--and do you not find in the practical life of both parties a lack of the
simplicity and earnestness of real republicanism and democracy?

Yes, to our shame as daughters of a republic, we must admit that we take more pride in ostentation
than in simplicity; and that our dominant social life and culture are a mere reflection, so
far as the freedom of our government will permit them to be, of social life and culture amid
the arrogant aristocracies of Europe!

The relation of an incident which came under our observation in a Northern city may not be
considered out of place here, since it is illustrative of the workings of our anti-democratic
social system, and how it may even be brought to swallow up practically all sense of the obligations
of patriotism.

Last winter, a sick soldier, who had been suffering in hospital for many months, was finally
discharged as incurable, found by his old widowed mother, and brought to his relatives, in
the city mentioned, to die. As a soldier, so long as he could bear a musket--and when he was
too weak to carry arms, so long as he could carry a cup of water to the wounded and dying on
the bloody field of Corinth--since which exertion he had been himself helpless--so long did
he serve his country faithfully and well. But when he came home to die, though some half a
dozen Union families knew his condition, only one paid him the least attention and respect.
It may be supposed this was because his relatives and their immediate friends were abundantly
able to minister to his wants, so that any outside proffers would seem but officiousness. On
the contrary, his relatives were poor, sickly, and, doubtless because of sickness, inefficient
people. However strange, it is nevertheless true, that members from two of these Union families,
some of them attendants on the aid society, and all loudly patriotic people, ridiculed the
attention of the one Union family who did try to cheer the suffering soldier, expressing the
sentiment that they would scorn to pay him any attention, 'his people were such a mean, low
set.' That was the term applied to the relatives of the dying hero! and this--not because they
failed in patriotism--not because they were guilty of any immoralities--but because they were
burdened, beyond their strength, by poverty and ill fortune! And this neglect was persisted
in till the end. The dying boy felt the cruelty of it--if he did not also feel the ingratitude
of it--as may be inferred from the last words he uttered, wherein, after alluding to the family
who did minister to him, he added, with parting breath, the melancholy comment: 'I am glad
somebody noticed me.'

This instance of the pride of class in our country going so far as to destroy the impulses
of ordinary charity, and to blot out of the conscience the claims of a suffering soldier upon
the personal gratitude of every patriotic heart that can reach him, is, we do hope and believe,
an extreme case. But being a fact, and one illustrative of the contradiction between the principles
of our government and the principles that sway our social life, we relate it in order to vividly
impress the mournful reality of that contradiction, and the consequent urgent duty of all women
who are indeed patriotic, to make earnest efforts to bring the daily life of our people, in
dress, manners, home surroundings, and motives of action in family and social circles nearer
to the spirit of true democracy.

To do this requires so much of personal culture and denial of selfish, arrogant instincts in
ourselves, so much of modification in our training of our children, so much uprooting on our
part of cherished prejudices in society, that, as before stated, it is a most difficult work.
But however difficult, it must be accomplished--and by American women, too, for men have no
power to lead in such a matter as this: it must be accomplished, or the hope of the freedom
and progress of humanity will be crushed, and democracy on earth die, even out of institutions
of government.

The action of a government, if not modified by the differing social life of its people, is
the practical realization of its theory: and social life among the people, if not too far restricted
by the arbitrary interference of government, is also a practical realization of its controlling
spirit; consequently, the freer the government the more plainly are evinced the prevailing
principles of those who give the tone to society; and under our democratic system, women--those
who give this tone to society--are with justice esteemed freer than elsewhere.

But of what value to the race is this greater freedom, if we employ it in imitating the spirit
and customs that are the result of the impeded society of nations less beneficently governed;
rather than in taking advantage of our wider opportunities to develop a true womanhood, such
as would cause us to regard man neither as a natural foe nor as a model for servile imitation--such
as would prompt us to influence man, not by any direct sharing in the performance of his peculiar
work, but by doing our own so intelligently and beautifully, that it shall sympathize with,
and elevate the spirit of his.

The society and government of a nation are two great institutions equally important, and requiring
for their wise development equal mental capacity. And in the economy of Providence in regard
to the distribution of responsibility between the sexes, while man has hitherto modified governments,
woman, among Christian nations--and possibly among pagan also--has always moulded society.
We glance back thus to repeat our leading idea, because we wish to add here, that to the minds
of those who realize the truth of it, the often vexed question of the comparative intellectual
ability of the sexes is put at rest. For where the imposed responsibilities, though differing,
are equally great, we may justly infer that the Deity has bestowed on the differing sexes,
upon whom these responsibilities are respectively distributed, equal capacity for wise performance
in its own sphere, and equal power to intellectually comprehend the other's sphere. For although
not so well fitted to perform the peculiar duties which belong to the other sex--yet each one,
in order to intelligently perform its own labor, must of necessity understand and sympathize
entirely with that of the other.

We cannot linger now upon how society and government always act and react upon each other--how,
in our own particular case, the colonial matrons of the country lived democracy, before our
forefathers instituted it--how, in times of after peace, the introduction of the leaven of
the spirit of European manners and society caused the daughters, not having been sufficiently
warned and instructed of their danger, to fall from the practised faith of their mothers, till
to-day we read the alarming fact that American society has slid back, little by little, till
now, alas, it is nearly in conformity with the moral barbarism of aristocratic institutions!
In view of this retrograde state of things, as patriotic women of America, we can do nothing
less than perform the work of our mothers over again. God grant we may do it--and do it more
effectually than they--inasmuch as we, it is to be hoped, realize the necessity of so instructing
our daughters, that after generations of women will never, like us, see society lagging behind
the divine principles of true democracy.

The heart of many a patriotic female, throbbing with anguish for her torn and bleeding country,
who has no husband, struggling on the side of the holy cause, at home or in the army, to be
sustained by the inspiration of a loving woman's self-denying patriotism; who has no sons or
brothers to send to the battle field, and to write brave, cheering, blessed letters to; whose
means are so swallowed up by daily necessities that she has no money--has not even time to
bestow on aid societies and loyal leagues--the heart of many such, in our land now, bends low
in self-abasement, and groans daily with the thought that she is useless to her country in
its hour of bitter need. Let all such females raise up their drooping heads, cheer up their
hearts, and take courage. Neither God nor her country requires a woman to act in the face of
circumstances which are inexorable. But this work of reforming the spirit and remodelling the
customs of society on a simple democratic basis, is one in which every woman--no matter what
her condition, nor how circumstanced--is capable of doing loyal service to country and humanity.
For if she has the will, she can bring her own life, and that of those affected by her influence,
gradually away from the sphere of principles which are antagonistic to our national institutions.

Let a controlling majority of our sex throughout the United States thus act--and were our threatened
Government doomed now to be indeed overturned, the startled world has no cause to despair!
For then the women of our land would prove its saviors--for, having recreated society according
to the principle of democracy, they would, through the laws of reaction, restore that principle
again to American institutions; restore--never again to be shaken thence, because upheld by
the intelligent coöperation of woman.

WEST OF THE MISSISSIPPI.

[The Continental, drawing its very life from its desire of upholding, strengthening, and sustaining
our sacred Union, welcomes the article from 'west of the Mississippi,' the object of which
is to encourage, through a common literature, the fraternal relations between East and West,
and cherish the great bond of national unity by proclaiming kindred ties.

We of the East stretch forth loving hands to our brothers of the West, and, feeling true and
loyal hearts beating through the dim spaces dividing us, bid them God speed, as bone of our
bone, and flesh of our flesh, whose prosperity is our life, whose ruin would be our own desolation.

  'As from the East the lovely exile goes,
  Fair on the West a young Aurora glows;
  And all the flowers Ionian shores could yield
  Blush forth, reblooming in the Hesperian field.'

  EDS. CONTINENTAL.]

From our quiet homes, on the western bank of the Mississippi, very nearly in Boston latitude,
we send daily thoughts of business, friendly interest, and political sympathy unto you who
dwell upon our Atlantic shore. Some of us look back unto you as the prodigal son is said to
have regarded his father's house. All of us have intimate ties binding us unto you. From you,
as the fountain head of literature and intelligence, through your magazines and journals, we
are constantly supplied with the living current of thought and mental activity. Is it anything
but fair that we should occasionally seek to respond and acknowledge the debt and the fellowship?
For what shall more tend to strengthen the bonds of our broad Union than these common sympathies
of a widespread and national fraternity of literary tastes and gratifications? Assimilation
of mind, community of thought produced by free interchange of opinion, in the way of social
intercourse, these will open our hearts to each other and strengthen the links of our national
brotherhood. That we may love each other, let us know each other; that we may know each other,
let us not fail to look each other fairly in the face.

West of the deep and gently flowing northern Mississippi, I know, is a long way off from the
surging waters of your eastern coasts. When you have come this distance, you are, in so far
as distance only is concerned, pretty well on your way toward the Rocky Mountains, and the
new land of El Dorado, the young and golden Nevada. But yet we are in fact much nearer to your
golden markets than to the hidden ore of our new Territories. Time and space, whose natural
demands have been so rudely disregarded by the iron progress of science and skill between you
and us, still to a great degree maintain their ancient rule over the lands west of us. That
vast, thrifty vine of speedy transportation, which has wound itself about the trunk of our
national tree, strikes here and there one of its tendrils out upon the branches beyond us,
over the region of a few counties. In one instance, in the State immediately south of us, a
single energetic scion has crept even to the banks of the rapid Missouri, and others are pushing
steadily on in determined emulation. But in most cases, we must be content to ride to the westward,
only on the back of the laggard and unambitious coach, that tortoise of travel, crawling on
through prairie and swamp. And it is still within the recollection of almost the youngest inhabitant,
how the daily trains, drawn by horse, mule, or ox, dragged themselves through our streets,
proclaiming from their cotton coverings their distant destination, illustrating on their march
the Western 'Excelsior'--

  'The wheels in mud were sticking fast,
  As through a boundless prairie passed
  A youth, who drove a two-mule team,
  While on his wagon top was seen.

  PIKE'S PEAK.'

Thus eastward we are within forty-eight hours of your press, while westward we are nearly as
many days distant by private conveyance from the land of fabled wealth. But time and space
must eventually give in. They are not equal to the task; and already the shadow of the great
Pacific road makes them tremble for their natural tenure of the free West. It might have done
for Æsop to talk about the tortoise and the hare, when they had not steam in those days to
course their streams and stalk across their plains with giant tread, eclipsing the old seven-league
boots of their fancy; but the tortoise is a used-up individual, is short of breath, and it
is the passenger that sleeps, while the hare leaps onward to his covert.

Being thus brought near to you by the swift convoys of science, it will be evident that we
are not so far away as we seem. We do not perpetrate an Irish bull when we say that the distance
to a place is often greater than the distance in returning. It is, on the contrary, a well
authenticated natural fact--a phenomenon, if you please. And by way of illustration we may
aver that it is a great deal farther from your metropolis to west of the Mississippi, than
from west of the Mississippi to the metropolis.

You sit in your cosy parlors and offices and think of some friend or relative, perhaps a son
or daughter, in the 'far West.' It seems as if a sea spread out between you, or at least the
better part of a continent. You think of India and China, perchance, or of England or France,
and you feel as if they were all nearly equidistant with the home of your beloved ones. It
is so far away out to the Father of Waters, and you can never make up your mind, without great
and frequent resolution, to undertake such a journey as this.

But, my friends, it is not half so far as that, from us to the Atlantic coast. It is not so
far from us to you, as it is to some tardy customer, whose bills are yet to collect, a hundred
miles down the country by a two-days' stage adventure. Not nearly so far. Why, when we want
to go to New York or Boston, we don't pack our trunks and take a cargo of luggage on board
for a two-months' voyage. We just tumble hurriedly a few things into a valise or carpet sack
before we go to bed, and the next morning off we start, and after two days of sight-seeing
and newspaper reading along the way, and two nights' comfortable sleeping-car rest, we wake
up at the dawn of the third day to bid you good morning and inquire after the markets; and
that is the end of it.

It isn't so very far, after all. We put off in the morning, bid good evening to Chicago, good
morning to Toledo, a ten-o'clock good night to Buffalo, and we sit down to a late breakfast
with you the following day.

But then if you have never been out here, it's a long, long distance, and we advise you not
to try it all of a sudden, nor to come without a trunk. Quod erat demonstrandum.

Then, in the next place, being out here, what sort of a people are we? This is a very important
query. In the eyes of many we are Western semi-barbarians, without an overplus of manners,
means, comforts, knowledge, or many, if any, of the means of Eastern and refined enjoyment.
We have come hither to make our fortunes, or to care for those who have, and we are the fit
objects of spiritual and temporal commiseration and missionary operations. That is the idea
somewhat candidly expressed, isn't it? Oh, no! you don't think so poorly of us as that; but
then we are a great ways off, in fact, in a new country, among strangers for the most part,
and of course we cannot expect to find everything at hand which we enjoyed in our former comfortable
homes.

Well, we are, many of us, from the 'far' East, and most of us from eastward. But we have tried
to bring whatever of refinement, manners, knowledge, proprieties, and comforts we before possessed,
such as they were, with us, and we haven't lost many of them. We do not believe that contact
with the Indians has very much barbarized us. We still read and write and live in houses which
we have built, and conduct mercantile and other transactions on former equitable principles;
and our communications and intercourse with each other may still be said to be civilized, at
least in great measure. We eat and drink what we formerly did, not excepting occasional shad
and frequent oysters; and you do not seem to be averse to trying our deer and grouse once in
a while--while we even share with you our wheat, cattle, and pork. We don't wear moccasons
as yet, nor buckskin with Indian trimmings, instead of doeskin with the latest cut. We try,
for the sake of appearances, to wear cotton and woollen and silk; and beads and trinkets are
in no extraordinary demand. Beavers and furs are seen upon our streets; and the sound of the
piano heard in the land, is not a very unusual disturbance. Our boys, as of old, smoke cigars
in secret, fearful of ancient birch, and gum drops still adhere to the pockets of our girls
in school. We don't see a very remarkable difference between the children about us and those
we knew at a somewhat early age. Brick and stone rise with us into comfortable and even aspiring
buildings, and the price of board is not less than we have paid before, nor so very much more.
We neither travel nor live on half fare. And men still drive the horse before the cart, and
carry the wheat in both ends of the bag as they go to mill.

In fact, we don't see that civilization has lost much flesh in its arduous journey to the far
West; nor that, being human before, we have become less human now, or discarded our manners
when we shut the doors of our birthplace behind us. We know indeed that Colenso went to convert
the heathen, and that the heathen succeeded in converting him, thus putting the boot on the
other leg; but the Indians have not yet won us to their dusky faith, although we must confess
that assimilation to their copper-colored principles seems to have made some Copperheads among us.

As to works of art, they are not very plentiful hereabouts, excepting in the way of monuments
perhaps. We have a generous number of those, erected to the large-heartedness and wisdom of
persons who engaged in great improvement schemes, in the line of speculation, when there was
but a fictitious basis of wealth in this land, before the bubble burst. These monuments, however,
are not generally esteemed ornamental, and the wealth so lavishly expended upon them came not
from the bosom of our communities, neither was it imported from north of us, nor west of us,
but from whence I will not say. Perhaps some one who reads can help to account for part of
it. These monuments, however, such as they are, have, by the liberal contributions made for
their erection, exceeded in cost that of Bunker Hill, or the half-finished shot tower in Washington.
Our only statues do not represent either the Father of his Country, nor the late old public
defunctionary who sat in his chair--but they are principally devoted to 'the poor Indian,'
in native costume. These statues, frequently wooden, exhibit the wonted hospitality of this
race, and maintain the attitude of proffering a cigar to the friendly passer by.

Of paintings there is not a superfluity; still we have a small collection, comprising several
which have for some years been on public exhibition, illustrating 'The Good Samaritan;' 'Prodigious;'
'Washington's Blacksmith shoeing Washington's Horse,' and others of less note, while ----'s
panorama of the war has lately departed from us.

Still we have our public and private schools, seminaries, and churches, as others have in fully
civilized countries; our newspapers, white and bronze; our leading men, and officeholders;
natives of all climes and kindreds, Jew and Gentile, German and French, Bohemian and Scotch,
English and Irish; our generals and our corporals; our learned and our unlearned; debtors and
creditors--comprising mostly all of us; but believe me, friend, not a solitary living Indian.

I think we are a generous, hospitable, liberal people, up to the full limit of our means and
capabilities. Being all away from home, as it were, and all strangers together, we have learned
the blessedness of sympathy, and how a little lift is often a great boost, and a friend in
need a friend indeed. It was formerly said that when a stranger appeared, the inhabitants emulously
set to work to take him in, not however in the flattering and hospitable sense of the words.
But as almost without exception any man in a new place or position is a verdant man, so we
honestly maintain that they took themselves in, and found it rather difficult to take themselves
out again. I believe that we are as quiet, honest, genteel, and mind-your-own-business a set
of folks as you may find in most other and more favored communities. With the constant and
increasing accessions to our society from more enlightened regions, it would be a wonder did
we not attain in time to a level with many other and older-settled countries, who are apt to
look abroad with serene complacency gathering motes in open eyes, We have had our castles in
the air, and some of them are now underground; but we have read of South Sea bubbles, rise
and fall in stocks, 'On to Richmonds,' McClellans, and Congress; and we don't think the beams
are all in our own eyes and the motes too.

In fact we are not heathen nor barbarian, Goth nor Vandal, Hottentot nor Fire Eater--but bone
of your bone, flesh of your flesh--one with you in all the customs, proprieties, civilization,
and hopes of the great American people; bound to save the republic of our fathers, if we go
to the death in defence of our mutual rights, principles, and homes.

Do you ask then, 'What is the need of saying all this, since we know it all?' I reply, there
is need of saying it, and of repeating it again. There may not be need of it for you, my friend;
there is need of it for many others. Talk not of making us of one flesh twain. It cannot be.
It is not a question of mere interest that shall bind us as a people inseparably in one. God
will not solder a chain. It is a higher bond, a holier bond. We are essentially and intrinsically
one; one by nature; one by mutual sympathies, by blood relations, by dearest ties; one in all
that constitutes the unity of a family relation; one in heart, one in aim, one in mind, purpose,
education, and will. None can make us two. Lines may be drawn by ambitious schemers, divisions
discussed, but these do not constitute separation or alienation. The heart of the people beats
in profound and resolute unison. What God hath joined together let not man put asunder.

Rise, then, as thou art already rising, great heart of the troubled nation, throb from one
confine to the other, bid faction's agitation hush, crush down opposition, scorn the unholy
threat, dash the traitorous scheme, and declare the resolute and solemn purpose of all the
members to live and govern together, as parts of the same living unity, till the whole body
politic becomes a prostrate, lifeless corpse. And from the western border of the States, even
from among the youngest and least of the children of the Union of Seventy-six, the union of
oaths and the union of hearts, the union of instincts and the union of hopes, do we, in the
name of her daughters and sons, bid you, upon the eastern confines, and the States between,
you the mothers, and you the elder daughters, all hail, and God speed you in the work of forging
anew, even in the fierce fires, the links that bind us into one; 'so making peace.'

For we are of you and with you, and will be ever, while our setting sun is your rising sun--ever,
until we become two distinct and divergent races--till you cease to be Joseph and we cease
to be Benjamin--till you become Edom and we become Moab--till long centuries shall have erased
all kindred ties and bonds of consanguinity, and all men, forgetful of history, shall sink
together into vassalage and ancient barbarism. But until then we are one in heart, one in life,
and must abide one in fact, or sink together to common shameful desolation.

THE CAVALIER THEORY REFUTED.

A remarkable feature of all discussions of questions connected with the present civil war,
is the lack of any attempt to question the foundation of important assertions. Our orators
and writers have been ready to explain or soften adverse statements, but they have rarely questioned
the existence of any asserted facts. One of the most persistent assumptions of the secessionists
has been that the inhabitants of their States are the descendants of the gentry of England,
and that the Unionists of the loyal States have neither any identity of origin nor a historical
pedigree. On this assumed fact they build two arguments: first, that being homogeneous, they
are united to a degree to which the Northerners can never attain; secondly, that the English
people, and especially the English gentry, are closely allied to them in blood, and should
naturally sympathize with them in their voluntary opposition to the constituted Government.

I propose to show that not only are these assertions unfounded, but that the reverse is the
truth; and this I feel authorized in doing for several reasons.

In the first place, if there be no advantage in placing ourselves right in our own eyes, our
cause can be advanced in the eyes of foreign observers, by the publication of the truth. Were
the facts as represented, an Englishman would be justified, to a certain degree, in sympathizing
with a large number of the descendants of Englishmen, engaged in a revolt against a superior
number of foreigners. His intense nationality, which has so long given his nation an undue
influence, leads him to take this view, and his belief in English invincibility causes him
to prejudge the case, and to deem the subjugation of his Southern relatives an impossibility.

Secondly, class prejudices are aroused everywhere in Europe by the idea that a nation of gentlemen
is contending for every right against a vulgar crowd; the idea of what in reality constitutes
an American democracy being still exceedingly nebulous to the European mind.

Thirdly, we have borne too long the imputation thus cast on us, for our own good in the management
of our own affairs. Already expression has been given to threats of ultimate division of the
North into separate nationalities, on the ground that we have no common interests and no common
origin. It seems well, therefore, to investigate the data at hand, and to see if the South
be so united or the North so divided as alleged.

A few tables, prepared from the official Census returns, will serve to place the question in
a clear light, and they will be easily confirmed or rejected.

I assume in the following table that the inhabitants of the United States were citizens by
birth, and by deducting at the end of each decade the number of immigrants, we have what may
fairly be claimed as the percentage of natural increase. I have added the slight excess over
the percentage to the column of native born, believing this advantage at least belongs to them:

WHITE POPULATION OF THE UNITED STATES.

TABLE NO. I.--INCREASE AND IMMIGRATION.

 -----+--------+----------+----------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
      |Percent |  Total   | Natives. |Aliens.|Aliens.|Aliens.|Aliens.|
 Date.|  of    |   per    |          |       |       |       |       |
      |Natural | Census.  |   1790.  | 1800. | 1810. | 1820. | 1830. |
      |Increase|          |          |       |       |       |       |
 -----+--------+----------+----------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
 1790 |        | 3,172,464| 3,172,464|       |       |       |       |
      |  33.7  |          | 1,071,971| 50,000|       |       |       |
      |        |          |----------+-------|       |       |       |
 1800 |        | 4,294,435| 4,244,435| 50,000|       |       |       |
      |  34.4  |          | 1,465,290| 16,200| 70,000|       |       |
      |        |          |----------+-------+-------|       |       |
 1810 |        | 5,845,925| 5,709,725| 66,200| 70,000|       |       |
      |  32.1  |          | 1,835,672| 21,250| 22,470|114,000|       |
      |        |          |----------+-------+-------+-------+       |
 1820 |        | 7,839,317| 7,545,397| 87,450| 92,470|114,000|       |
      |  32.1  |          | 2,424,228| 28,071| 29,781| 36,594|151,824|
      |        |          |----------+-------+-------+-------+-------|
 1830 |        |10,509,815| 9,969,625|115,521|122,251|150,594|151,824|
      |  29    |          | 2,899,444| 33,501| 35,452| 43,673| 44,028|
      |        |          |----------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
 1840 |        |14,165,038|12,869,069|149,022|157,703|194,267|195,852|
      |  25.1  |          | 3,238,699| 37,403| 39,583| 48,761| 49,157|
      |        |          |----------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
 1850 |        |19,442,272|16,107,768|186,425|197,286|243,028|245,009|
      |  23.9  |          | 3,868,994| 44,456| 47,151| 58,083| 58,557|
      |        |          |----------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
 1860 |        |26,706,425|19,976,762|230,881|244,437|301,111|303,566|
 -----+--------+----------+----------+-------+-------+-------+-------+

 -----+--------+----------+-------+---------+---------
      |Percent |  Total   |Aliens.| Aliens. | Aliens.
 Date.|  of    |   per    |       |         |
      |Natural | Census.  | 1840. |  1850.  |  1860.
      |Increase|          |       |         |
 -----+--------+----------+-------+---------+---------
 1790 |        | 3,172,464|       |         |
      |  33.7  |          |       |         |
      |        |          |       |         |
 1800 |        | 4,294,435|       |         |
      |  34.4  |          |       |         |
      |        |          |       |         |
 1810 |        | 5,845,925|       |         |
      |  32.1  |          |       |         |
      |        |          |       |         |
 1820 |        | 7,839,317|       |         |
      |  32.1  |          |       |         |
      |        |          |       |         |
 1830 |        |10,509,815|       |         |
      |  29    |          |599,125|         |
      |        |          |-------|         |
 1840 |        |14,165,038|599,125|         |
      |  25.1  |          |150,380|1,713,251|
      |        |          |-------+---------|
 1850 |        |19,442,272|749,505|1,713,251|
      |  23.9  |          |179,131|  409,467|2,598,214
      |        |          |-------+---------+---------
 1860 |        |26,706,425|928,636|2,122,718|2,598,214
 -----+--------+----------+-------+---------+---------

This table shows us that in the States in 1860, out of 26,706,425 white inhabitants, 19,976,762
were the descendants of the original citizens of 1790. I omit the Territories, as the number
of inhabitants cannot affect the result, and it is difficult to decide upon their nationality.

In Table II, I propose to divide the inhabitants of 1790 into four classes, the first comprising
New England; the second, New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania; the third, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia; and the fourth, Delaware, Maryland, Kentucky, and Tennessee.

Allowing to each class the same percentage of increase as in the former table, we shall see
how our nineteen millions of native-born citizens originated:

INCREASE OF NATIVE WHITE POPULATION.

TABLE NO. II.

 -----+---------+------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------
      |         |   TOTAL    |           |           |           |
      |         |   as per   |           |           |           |
      | Percent |  'Native'  |           |           |           |
      |   of    |   column,  |    New    | New York, | Virginia, | Delaware,
 Date.|Increase.|Table No. I.|  England. |    &c.    |    &c.    |    &c.
 -----+---------+------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------
 1790 |         |  3,172,464 |   992,781 |   908,195 |   923,383 |   348,105
      |   33.7  |            |   335,417 |   306,911 |   312,030 |   117,618
 -----+---------+------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------
 1800 |         |  4,244,435 | 1,328,198 | 1,215,106 | 1,235,413 |   465,718
      |   34.4  |            |   458,465 |   419,596 |   426,582 |   160,647
 -----+---------+------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------
 1810 |         |  5,709,725 | 1,786,663 | 1,634,702 | 1,661,995 |   626,365
      |   32.1  |            |   574,369 |   525,589 |   534,350 |   201,364
 -----+---------+------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------
 1820 |         |  7,545,397 | 2,361,032 | 2,160,291 | 2,196,345 |   827,729
      |   32.1  |            |   758,541 |   694,103 |   705,676 |   265,908
 -----+---------+------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------
 1830 |         |  9,969,625 | 3,119,573 | 2,854,394 | 2,902,021 | 1,093,637
      |   29    |            |   907,176 |   830,274 |   844,086 |   317,908
 -----+---------+------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------
 1840 |         | 12,869,069 | 4,026,749 | 3,684,668 | 3,746,107 | 1,411,545
      |   25.1  |            | 1,012,464 |   927,852 |   943,272 |   355,111
 -----+---------+------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------
 1850 |         | 16,107,768 | 5,039,213 | 4,612,520 | 4,689,379 | 1,766,656
      |   23.9  |            | 1,210,270 | 1,108,292 | 1,126,661 |   423,771
 -----+---------+------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------
 1860 |         | 19,976,762 | 6,249,483 | 5,720,812 | 5,816,040 | 2,190,427
 -----+---------+------------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------

Here then we see that New England has contributed nearly one third of the number, and nearly
one quarter of the entire population.

But I will endeavor further to analyze the constitution of the different States which were
added to the Union previous to 1860. The following table will show the numbers at each decade:

TABLE NO. III.

NORTHERN FOREIGN IMMIGRATION AND SOUTHERN EMIGRATION.

 -----+----------------------------------++-----------------------------------
      |            FREE STATES.          ||     SLAVE STATES.
      |-----------+----------+-----------++-----------+----------+------------
      |Inhabitants|          |           ||Inhabitants|          |
 Date.|per Census.| Natives. |Immigrants.||all Native.|Emigrants.|Immigrants.
 -----+-----------+----------+-----------++-----------+----------+-------------
 1810 |  3,653,219| 3,421,365|   231,854 || 2,192,706 |  95,654  |
      |           |          |           ||           |          |
 1820 |  5,030,371| 4,521,323|   509,048 || 2,808,946 | 215,048  |
      |           |          |           ||           |          |
 1830 |  6,874,302| 5,973,967|   900,335 || 3,635,513 | 360,145  |
      |           |          |           ||           |          |
 1840 |  9,560,165| 7,711,417| 1,848,748 || 4,604,873 | 552,779  |
      |           |          |           ||           |          |
 1850 | 13,257,795| 9,651,733| 3,606,062 || 6,184,477 | 271,558  |
      |           |          |           ||           |          |
 1860 | 17,993,585|11,970,295| 6,023,290 || 8,712,840 |   --     |  706,373
 -----+------------------------------------------------------------------------

We have now certain data from which to argue, and I will first investigate the alleged homogeneity
of the South. Conceding that every citizen of the two classes of Virginia, etc., and Delaware,
etc., in 1790, was indisputably the descendant of an English cavalier, and that the increase
of population found an outlet into the new Slave States, how would the case stand?

In 1860 these States contained 8,712,840; by Table II we calculated they should contain 8,006,467;
so that even in this case there are some 700,000 foreigners. But a little more research shows
that the case is much more unfavorable.

Up to 1840, the Southern States not only could have furnished all the settlers in the Slave
States, but must have sent out colonists. In 1840, they had 4,604,873 inhabitants; add to this
the natural increase, 25.1 per cent. (1,155,823), and we have 5,760,696 native born, and 423,781
foreigners required make their total of 6,184,477 inhabitants.

But in the next decade, add to the 5,760,696 native born, their percentage of increase 23.9
(1,376,806), and we have 7,137,502, requiring 1,575,338 foreigners, more than one sixth, for
their total of 8,712,840 white inhabitants.

By no conceivable chance can more than five sixths of the population of the South be descended
from the English cavaliers.

But if we concede to every Virginian, not only his inherent gentility, but his unswerving purpose
never to emigrate out of slave territory, and an intuitive presentiment which pointed out which
were to be the slave portions of adjacent Territories, by these same percentages of increase
the 442,215 Virginian cavaliers of 1790 could be the progenitors of only 2,785,927 patricians
to rally around the model cavalier of 1860--Jefferson Davis.

Lastly, in an estimate published in 1848 by Mr. Jesse Pickering, devoted entirely to the consideration
of immigration as a national question, it is argued, with every appearance of truth, that in
1840 the foreign population of the Slave States was 1,177,965. But these must have displaced
an equal number of the native born, and we should have only 3,426,908 of that class in 1840,
4,287,061 in 1850, and 5,311,668 in 1860, or in that case only five eighths of the population
could be of native descent, provided that not one emigrated. When we consider that the great
immigration of all was between 1840 and 1860, we are forced to conclude that certainly not
more than one half of the inhabitants of the present confederate States can present the faintest
claim to a descent from the citizens of 1790.

When we seriously endeavor to investigate the claims of Virginians to a descent from the English
gentry, we are stopped by their practical denial of the first principles of genealogy.

The public records of their State, as shown by the highest authority, the bishop of the diocese,
are most imperfect. The records of the parishes have been lost, the churchyards destroyed,
and few authorities, save tradition, can be given for these ambitious claims. Bishop Meade's
work, especially devoted to the history of the 'Old Churches and Old Families of Virginia,'
gives less than thirty families, clearly traced, to the English gentry. These are those of
Ambler, Barradall, Baylor, Bushrod, Burwell, Carter, Digges, Fairfax, Fitzhugh, Fowke, Harrison,
Jacqueline, Lee, Lewis, Ludwell, Mason, Robinson, Spottswood, Sandys, and Washington. I believe
I have omitted none, and have rather strained a point in admitting some.

I do not, of course, mean to deny that others may exist, but until the proofs are submitted
to examination, there is no justice in presuming them to exist. Let us see how far the historians
of Virginia support the 'cavalier' theory. Robert Beverley (I quote from the edition published
at Richmond in 1855) says:

     'Those that went over to that country first, were chiefly single
     men who had not the incumbrance of wives and children in England;
     and if they had, they did not expose them to the fatigue and hazard
     of so long a voyage, until they saw how it should fare with
     themselves. From hence it came to pass, that when they were settled
     there in a comfortable way of subsisting a family, they grew
     sensible of the misfortune of wanting wives, and such as had left
     wives in England sent for them, but the single men were put to
     their shifts. They excepted against the Indian women on account of
     their being pagans, as well as their complexions, and for fear
     they should conspire with those of their own nation to destroy
     their husbands. Under this difficulty they had no hopes but that
     the plenty in which they lived might invite modest women, of small
     fortunes, to go over thither from England. However, they would not
     receive any but such as could carry sufficient certificate of their
     modesty and good behavior. Those, if they were but moderately
     qualified in all other respects, might depend upon marrying very
     well in those days, without any fortune. Nay, the first planters
     were so far from expecting money with a woman, that 'twas a common
     thing for them to buy a deserving wife that carried good
     testimonials of her character, at the price of one hundred pounds,
     and make themselves believe they had a bargain.

     '§67. But this way of peopling the colony was only at first. For
     after the advantages of the climate and the fruitfulness of the
     soil were well known, and all the dangers incident to infant
     settlements were over, people of better condition retired thither
     with their families, either to increase the estates they had
     before, or to avoid being persecuted for their principles of
     religion or government. And so
     again, upon the Restoration, many people of the opposite party took
     refuge there, to shelter themselves from the king's resentment. But
     Virginia had not many of these last, because that country was
     famous for holding out the longest for the royal family of any of
     the English dominions.[13] For which reason the Roundheads went,
     for the most part, to New England, as did most of those that in the
     reign of King Charles II were molested on account of their
     religion, though some of these fell likewise to the share of
     Virginia.

     As for malefactors condemned to transportation, though the greedy
     planter will always buy them, yet it is to be feared they will be
     very injurious to the country, which has already suffered many
     murders and robberies, the effect of that new law of England.'

Beverley notes also about these servants that 'a white woman is rarely or never put to work
in the ground, if she be good for anything else.'

Bishop Meade (vol. i, p. 89) speaks also of these female servants:

     'While the company and the Governor were endeavoring to improve the
     condition of the colony, by selecting a hundred young females of
     good character, to be wives to the laborers on the farms of
     Virginia, King James had determined to make of the colony a Botany
     Bay for the wretched convicts in England, and ordered one hundred
     to be sent over. The company remonstrated, but in vain. A large
     portion, if not all of them, were actually sent. The influence of
     this must have been pernicious. Whether it was continued by his
     successors, and how long, and to what extent, I know not.'

And again (pp. 365-'6), he says:

     'The greatest difficulty they (the vestrymen) appear to have had
     was with the hired servants, of whom, at an early period, great
     numbers came over to this country, binding themselves to the richer
     families. The number of illegitimate children born of them and
     thrown upon the parish, led to much action on the part of the
     vestries and the legislature. The lower order of persons in
     Virginia, in a great measure, sprang from these apprenticed
     servants and from poor exiled culprits.'

Stith says (ed. There may be many other authorities; it is for the asserters of this theory
to produce them, and I certainly would republish them if I could obtain them.

Let us, however, leave Virginia for a time, to consider the origin of the inhabitants of Delaware,
Maryland, the Carolinas, Georgia, and those other confederate States which also claim the honor
of an English paternity. Here our means of information become more plain and accessible. From
about 1730 up to the time of the Revolution, these colonies were the object of the constant
attention of England. The wars with France and Spain and the projects of the proprietors of
these grants of land combined to make the public of England anxious for information concerning
them. I will merely cite from the London Magazine of that date, though a more extended search,
I doubt not, would add to the strength of my position. I find in the first place that the new
population was not only not cavalier, but not even English. I find that 'the design of this
settlement (Georgia) was to provide an asylum or place of refuge for the honest industrious
poor, and the unfortunate, with some view to the relief of the persecuted Protestants in Germany.
Among these unfortunate persons it could not be guarded against that numbers, unfortunate only
by their own vices or follies, intruded themselves among the real 'objects of charity.' In
1737, these Saltzburghers had built a town, Ebenezer, in Georgia. Mr. Oglethorpe also 'planted
upon the fourth frontier, at a place called by him Darien, a colony of Scottish Highlanders.'
'The southernmost settlement in South Carolina is now the town of Purrysburg, which was built
by Captain Purry, a gentleman of Swisserland, at the head of a number of his own countrymen,
who went over with him soon after that country became a royal government.' In 1765 a new fort
was built 'on the Savannah river, about fifteen miles above Hillsborough township, which will
be of great use to the three new settlements of Irish, French, and German Protestants.' In
1762, 'the Governor of South Carolina has granted forty thousand acres of land to be laid out
into two townships for a number of people from Ireland, who are expected here.'

In 1762, 'upward of six hundred German emigrants, men, women, and children, consisting of Wurtzburghers
and Palatines, all Protestants, who were brought here by one Colonel Stumpel, with a promise
to be immediately settled in America,' were landed in England, and charitably aided to go to
South Carolina. In 1766, I read of Florida, 'the principal town is Pensacola, and as many of
the French, who inhabited here before the treaty, have chose to become British subjects for
the sake of keeping their estates,' that more foreigners were added to the Southern colonies.

Mr. Pickett, whose history of Alabama was published at Charleston, S. C., in 1851, adds, 'a
company of forty Jews, acting under the broad principle of the charter, which gave freedom
to all religions, save that of the Romish Church, landed at Savannah. Much dissatisfaction,
both in England and America, arose in consequence of these Israelites, and Oglethorpe was solicited
to send them immediately from the colony. He, however, generously permitted them to remain,
which was one of the wisest acts of his life, for they and their descendants were highly instrumental
in developing the commercial resources of this wild land.' 'The colony of Georgia had prospered
under the wise guidance of Oglethorpe. The colonists, being from different nations, were various
in their characters and religious creeds. Vaudois, Swiss, Piedmontese, Germans, Moravians,
Jews from Portugal, Highlanders, English, and Italians were thrown together in this fine climate,
new world, and new home.'

Even Virginia was not entirely English. Barber's account of the State (p. 451) says of the
valley of the Shenandoah:

     'The eastern part of the valley being conveniently situated for
     emigrants from Pennsylvania, as well as from lower Virginia, the
     population there came to be a mixture of English Virginians and
     German and Scotch-Irish Presbyterians. The German Pennsylvanians,
     being passionate lovers of fat lands, no sooner heard of the rich
     valleys of the Shenando and its branches, than they began to join
     their countrymen from Europe in pouring themselves forth over the
     country above Winchester. Finding the main Shenando mostly
     preoccupied, they followed up the north and south branches on both
     sides of the Massanutten, or Peaked Mountain, until they filled up
     all the beautiful vales of the country for the space of sixty
     miles. So completely did they occupy the country, that the few
     stray English or Irish settlers among them did not sensibly affect
     the homogeneousness of the population.'

And again:

     'The first settlements of this portion of the valley were made by
     the Scotch Irish, with a few original Scotch among them. They
     settled in the neighorhoods around Martinsburg, in Berkely county,
     Winchester, and almost the entire counties of Orange and Guilford.
     The same race went on into North Carolina, and settled in the
     counties of Orange and Guilford, especially in the northern and
     middle parts of the latter county.'

Beverley writes (p. 228):

     'The French refugees sent in thither by the charitable exhibition
     of his late majesty King William, are naturalized by a particular
     law for that purpose. In the year 1699 there went over about three
     hundred of these, and in the year following about two hundred more,
     and so on, till there arrived in all between seven and eight
     hundred men, women, and children, who had fled from France on
     account of their religion.'

Bishop Meade (ii. 75) writes:

     'That twelve Protestant German families, consisting of about fifty
     persons, arrived, April 17th, in Virginia, and were therein settled
     near the Rappahannock river. That in 1717, seventeen Protestant
     German families, consisting of about fourscore persons, came and
     set down near their countrymen. And many more, both German and
     Swiss families, are likely to come there and settle likewise.'

This report was made in 1720.

These facts show in the clearest manner that a great percentage of the inhabitants of the seceding
States are not of English origin. Even the English were not all Cavalier and Episcopalian.
The London Magazine, in an 'Account of the British Plantations,' says:

     'What contributed much more toward the establishment of the colony,
     was their granting a plenary indulgence to people of all religions,
     as by their charter they were empowered to do; for by this great
     numbers of dissenters were induced to sell their estates in England
     and transport themselves and families to Carolina; so that by the
     year 1670 a numerous colony was at once sent out.'

One last consideration, of possible impurity of blood, and I will proceed to examine the antecedents
of those colonists who were of English blood.

In 1853, a memoir of James Fontaine was published, accompanied by letters from members of his
family. He was a Huguenot, who had settled in Virginia, and his descendants have been among
the most distinguished of her citizens.

The letters of his sons to relatives in England are very instructive. I quote from one from
Peter Fontaine, dated March 2, 1756, in which he regrets that the English had not intermarried
with the Indians:

     'But here methinks I can hear you observe, 'What! Englishmen
     intermarry with Indians?' But I can convince you that they are
     guilty of much more heinous practices, more unjustifiable in the
     sight of God and man (if that indeed may be called a bad practice);
     for many base wretches among us take up with negro women, by which
     means the country swarms with mulatto bastards, and these
     mulattoes, if but three generations removed from the black father
     or mother, may, by the indulgence of the laws of the country,
     intermarry with the white people, and actually do every day so
     marry.'

This is the testimony of a Virginian gentleman, made a century ago; I do not care to more than
point to the possible infusion of other than English blood into the veins of the gentlemen
who desire to adopt the Cavalier as their national device.

We now proceed to examine the social position, prior to the emigration, of those Englishmen
who did in a certain degree colonize the present Slave States, and in a much greater degree
colonize New England. I must confess having long wondered at the persistent statement of Englishmen
that the citizens of the United States were the offspring of the vagabonds and felons of Europe.
Having examined the history of the families of New England with much interest, and finding
therein no confirmation of this idea, I had held it but the outbreak of prejudice and ignorance.
Yet since the present rebellion has caused so much inquiry into the antecedents of the Southerners,
I find that the assertion is well founded, but that it concerns those who have hitherto been
loudest in their claims to a distinguished ancestry.

I find among the items of monthly intelligence in the London Magazine, the records of felons
sentenced to transportation to his majesty's plantations in America, and often the different
colonies named. I find a calculation incidentally made, about 1750, that 500 culprits were
hung annually in Great Britain--and bloody as the circuits then were, I cannot believe that
less than ten times that number annually received the questionable charity of expatriation.
I will give a few extracts to show the foundation upon which Southern society has been erected.

In October, 1732, '68 men and 50 women, felons convict, were carried from Newgate to Black
Fryars, and put on board a lighter to be carried down the river to be shipped on board the
Cæsar, off of Deptford, for transportation to Virginia.' January, 1736: 'This morning 140 felons
convict for transportation, were carried from Newgate, and shipped for the plantations, and
18 likewise from the new gaol at Southwark.' In May, 106 were also so shipped. In 1738, 126
were shipped at one time 'for the plantations.' In 1739, 127 were shipped 'to America.' In
1741, 9 of the felons on board a ship lying at Blackwall, 'to be transported to Virginia,'
made a bold dash to escape. In May, 1747, 'We are informed that several large ships sailed
lately from Liverpool with the rebel prisoners, under a strong convoy to Virginia and Maryland,
and other of his majesty's plantations, which makes the whole of what have been transported
upward of 1,000.' In January, 1749, 'the 'Laura,' with 135 convicts, bound to Maryland, was
cast away.' In 1754, Mr. Stewart was the contractor to transport convicts 'to America.' In
1758, '63 men and women transports were sent from Newgate on board the ship 'Trial,' bound
to Maryland, and 45 from the new gaol, Southwark.' Later in the same year, 53 'for America'--36
men and 20 women 'for the plantations.' In 1761, a ship sails with 8 men and 27 women 'convicts
to America.' In October, '27 women and 18 men from Newgate, 14 from the new gaol, and 62 from
the country gaols, were transported to America this month.' In 1762, 36 women and 5 men convicts
were shipped 'to America;' '62 convicts were embarked for Maryland.'

In 1766, I find: 'The above observation occurred to my mind a few days ago, on seeing the convicts
pass along to the water side, in order to be shipped for America, with fifes playing before
them, 'Through the wood, laddie,' '--as an evidence that the practice was then in force and
a matter of course.

In a 'Tour through the British Plantations,' published in this magazine, in 1755, which contains
a good account of each colony, I read of Virginia that under Sir Edwyn Sandys, 'there were
12,000 acres laid off for the use of the company, and 100 tenants or planters sent to be placed
thereon; and 3,000 acres for the support of the Governor, for the planting of which 100 more
men were sent; and what was now become absolutely necessary, there were no less than 90 young
women, of a healthful constitution, and unspotted reputation, sent out to be married to the
planters, instead of diseased and profligate strumpets, as is now the ridiculous practice....
Thus the company and colony began to be in a thriving way: but now they began to be oppressed
by the Government here, for in November they were ordered to send over to Virginia, at their
own charge, 100 felons or vagabonds, then it may be supposed in prison, which they were obliged
to comply with.'

The same writer says of Maryland:

     'The convicts that are transported here sometimes prove very worthy
     creatures and entirely forsake their former follies; but the trade
     has for some time run in another channel; and so many volunteer
     servants come over, especially Irish, that the other is a commodity
     much blown over. Several of the best planters, or their ancestors,
     have, in the two colonies,[14] been originally of the convict
     class, and therefore are much to be praised and esteemed for
     forsaking their old courses.'

In 1751 (p. 293) is printed the following:

     'A LETTER LATELY PUBLISHED IN VIRGINIA.

     'SIR: When we see our papers filled continually with accounts of
     the most audacious robberies, the most cruel murders, and infinite
     other atrocities perpetrated by convicts transported from Europe,
     what melancholy, what terrible reflections must it occasion! What
     will become of our posterity? These are some of thy favors,
     Britain! Thou art called our mother country; but what good mother
     ever sent thieves and villains to accompany her children; to
     corrupt some with their infectious vices, and murder the rest? What
     father ever endeavored to spread the plague in his family! We do
     not ask fish, but thou givest us serpents, and worse than serpents!
     In what can Britain show a more sovereign contempt for us, than by
     emptying their gaols into our settlements, unless they would
     likewise empty their offal upon our tables? What must we think of
     that board, which has advised the repeal of every law we have
     hitherto made to prevent this deluge of wickedness overwhelming us;
     and with this cruel sarcasm, that these laws were against the
     public utility, for they tended to prevent the improvement and well
     peopling of the colonies! And what must we think of those
     merchants, who, for the sake of a little paltry gain, will be
     concerned in importing and disposing of these abominable cargoes?'

With these quotations I would leave the subject to the consideration of every unprejudiced
judgment. Is it not for the Southerner, even for the Virginian, to produce further evidence
of his Cavalier descent before it can be allowed? We see abundant proofs, taken from authorities
in no way connected with the present inimical feelings of the North and South, that a very
large portion of the English colonists consisted of transported felons. To this direct evidence--which
can only be rebutted by evidence of the extinction of the descendants of this class and the
infusion of an equal amount of gentle blood--we have thus far only the fact of the presence
of a very few good families, and the boasts of prejudiced partisans.

And now, after having indicated the grounds for a careful criticism of Southern claims, let
me assert the claims of New England, not to gentle blood, but to a purely English ancestry.
Here we come at once upon solid ground, and the authorities are numerous and trustworthy. Genealogy
has, for the past ten or twelve years, been a favorite study in New England; and, as Sir Bernard
Burke writes, 'for ten or twelve years before the civil conflict broke out ... Massachusetts
was more genealogical than Yorkshire, and Boston sustained what London never did, a magazine
devoted exclusively to genealogy.' The history of different families, the records of nearly
all the older towns, the colonial records, have all been placed in print. Many of these books
are larger than any English works on the subject, and are monuments of patient industry. After
such researches we may claim to speak intelligently of our ancestry, and to point to the proofs
of our assertions. In one work, contained in four volumes, covering two thousand five hundred
pages, Mr. Savage has attempted to record the names of the settlers of New England and of two
generations of their descendants. Imperfect as such an attempt may be, what other section of
our country or any nation can pretend to such a knowledge of its antecedents? I give the result
of his twenty years' study in his own words:

     'From long and careful research I have judged the proportion of the
     whole number living here in 1775, that deduce their origin from the
     kingdom of England, i.e., the southern part of Great Britain,
     excluding also the principality of Wales, to exceed ninety-eight
     in a hundred.'

     'A more homogeneous stock cannot be seen, I think, in any so
     extensive a region at any time, since that when the ark of Noah
     discharged its passengers on Mount Ararat, except in the few
     centuries elapsing before the confusion of Babel.'

So much for the idle slander that New England has no records nor homogeneity.

As to the other alleged stigma of Puritanism. Could Virginia maintain her claim to a Cavalier
ancestry instead of failing on even a superficial scrutiny, the contrast attempted to be drawn
between Puritan and Cavalier is based on a fallacy. When these colonies were established, the
distinction was a political one as clearly as the succeeding divisions of Whig and Tory. In
those days the gentry were the leaders--the Puritan was as much a gentleman in the technical
English sense as the Cavalier. To take an instance which will strike our Virginia friends,
who quote the Fairfaxes and Washingtons: Lord Fairfax, the Puritan, married the daughter of
Lord Vere, 'a zealous Presbyterian and disaffected to the king.' Their daughter married the
gay Cavalier, duke of Buckingham.

The Washingtons were connections, and rather humble ones, of the Spencers. Yet the latest account
of the families show Henry Lord Spencer 'standing by the side of the Lords Northumberland and
Essex, and the other noblemen who were afterward the leaders of the Parliament during the civil
war.'

Puritan and Cavalier! The phrase only means that those, both of gentry and yeomanry, who had
sufficient brains to understand liberty, and the courage to fight for it, combined and forever
broke the chains of royal or oligarchical oppression. If the gentry were a minority in the
party, so much the less reason to boast of such an ancestry.

Still, as no point in a contest should be thrown away, let it be avowed that Puritanic New
England could always display a greater array of 'gentlemen by birth' than Virginia, or even
the entire South. This is said deliberately, because we know whereof we speak. If the fact
be of service in any way, it can easily be substantiated. A list of such names as I can at
present remember is longer than any list I have been able to collect from Southern publications.
These are, Adams, Amory, Anderson, Appleton, Belcher, Bond, Bowdoin, Bromfield, Browne, Burrill,
Chauncy, Chester, Chute, Checkley, Clark, Clarke, Cotton, Coolidge, Corwin, Cradock, Davenport,
Downing, Dudley, Dummer, Eyre, Fairfax, Foxcroft, Giffard, Jaffrey, Jeffries, Johnson, Hawthorne,
Herrick, Holyoke, Hutchinson, Lawrence, Lake, Lechmere, Legge, Leverett, Lloyd, Lowell, Mascarene,
Mather, Miner, Norton, Oliver, Pepperell, Phips, Phippen, Prince, Pynchon, Saltonstall, Sears,
Sewall, Thornton, Usher, Vassall, Ward, Wendell, Wetmore, Wilson, Winslow, Winthrop, Wyllys.

I insert this list only for the benefit of those who have yielded to the claims of Virginia
through ignorance on points which are peculiarly the care of genealogists. It can easily be
extended, and every year, as our records are more fully examined, it will increase.

If we leave the dry details, which I have presented simply as indications of the method in
which this question can be discussed, and regard the problem in a more general view, it is
surprising to see how theory and fact agree. The United States are essentially English to-day,
despite the millions of foreigners which have been absorbed into its population. The tendency
of its citizens has been toward a democracy, and yet not toward anarchy and lawlessness. The
throes of a gigantic revolution have not sufficed to outweigh the instinctive love of law and
order peculiar to the English race. Though events unforeseen by the authors of the Federal
Constitution have called for exercises of power, obscurely permitted perhaps by that instrument,
yet unknown to former practice, still there has been no popular convulsion at the North, no
armed outbreak, no phrensy of mob power. There is as yet no such thing known as an American mob.

When we inquire what controlling influence has impressed this form upon the national character,
the enemies of the predominant party instinctively show that it is New England. Not the comparatively
limited New England of 1863, but the New England stock and influence which has invigorated
nearly every State of the Union. In their ignorance of the past, these revilers of New England
have been blindly attacking a greater fact than they were aware of. Not only is nearly a third
part of our native-born population the offspring of the New England of the Revolution, but
long before that time the intermixture had commenced. Whitehead's 'New Jersey' (p. 159) quotes
Governor Burnet's letter, written in 1729:

     'The people of New Jersey (being generally of New England
     extraction, and therefore enthusiasts) would consider the number of
     planters, etc., as a repetition of the same sin as David committed
     in numbering the people.'

The History of Dorchester, Massachusetts, quotes a letter from the Secretary of Georgia, in
1755, in relation to a colony from that town, in which he says:

     'I really look upon these people moving here to be one of the most
     favorable circumstances that could befall the colony.'

It is added:

     'This settlement has furnished Georgia with two governors, two of
     its most distinguished judges, the theological seminary of South
     Carolina and Georgia with an able professor, the Methodist
     Episcopal Church with an influential and pious bishop, the
     Presbyterian and Baptist Churches of that State with many of their
     ablest and most useful ministers; and six of her sons have been
     called to professorial chairs in collegiate institutions.'

The first attempt at colonizing the Mississippi delta was made by the Lymans, Dwights, and
their associates from Connecticut. New York received a constant accession from New England
long before 1775.

Here, then, history and theory both agree. New England, colonized by Englishmen, homogeneous
in a remarkable degree, has been the only thoroughly pure nationality within our territories.
The few stray Englishmen of education in the Southern colonies, the much greater number of
convicts, the increasing immigration of French, Irish, Scotch, and German settlers, have not
only failed to overwhelm this compact and thoroughly alive minority, but have been formed and
moulded into shape by it. In protesting against New England, the Vallandighams and Coxes are
only proving the nullity of 'expunging resolutions.' 'Can they make that not to be which has
been?' Until they can recall the past, annihilate the past inhabitants of these States, and
from stones raise up some other progenitors for the present generation, they cannot destroy
the influence of New England.

And yet we are called upon to believe that the race which has thus done the greatest work of
the past two centuries was the random aggregation of opposite and mongrel races, the offspring
of ignorance, poverty, and crime. We are to believe that while the pure blood of English gentlemen
in Virginia has produced not only the gentlemanly vices of pride, treachery, and falsehood
in the leaders, but the ignoble faults of crime and debasement in the 'poor trash'--that some
occult influence of climate has advanced an entire community at the North far above the position
of its progenitors--that while the gentle Cavalier has been overcome by the seductive charms
of luxury and repose, the ignoble Puritan has thrown off his degrading antecedents, and has
obtained the control of the allied races. The servant has become the master, the scum of all
nations has overpowered the choicest offspring of that race which Macaulay terms 'the hereditary
rulers of mankind.'

These conclusions, so eminently logical and convincing, we must believe, or we must doubt the
pure blood of the aristocracy of the Slave States.

Is it not more reasonable to believe, as facts daily prove, that New England was colonized
from the hardiest and best portion of the English stock? That our ancestors, accepting the
state of English society as a fact, neither invited nor repelled the accession of the gentry.
That many of that class did join in the enterprise, and that, where they were worthy, they
received the slight preference which is accorded to personal advantages of any sort. That the
bulk of the colonists were separated from this class by slight barriers, that many of them
were excluded only by a want of the necessary property to maintain the position, and that on
this new territory these distinctions were speedily forgotten--not because the higher class
deteriorated, but because the lower, having but a slight advance to make, soon stood on an
actual equality with them.

If the sympathy of England were now as desirable and as strongly expected as it was two years
ago, I might urge the matter further. As it is, it seems sufficient to overthrow the claims
of Southerners, based upon false pretences, and supported only by unblushing effrontery, and
to refute the slanders which have been thrown upon an entire section of the loyal States.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 13: Yet our author had already shown that Dennis, Cromwell's captain, 'contrived
a stratagem which betrayed the country. He had got a considerable parcel of goods aboard, which
belonged to two of the Council, and found a method of informing them of it. By this means they
were reduced to the dilemma, either of submitting or losing their goods. This caused factions
amongst them, so that at last'--we blush to add--'the colony surrendered--and saved the goods.'
En dat Virginia quintam. The fifth crown had its price, even for a 'usurper.']

[Footnote 14: Virginia was the other of which he was writing.]

THE EARLY ARBUTUS.

  Give me water, give air, give me light!
    Oh, as life in my heart ebbs away,
  I pine through the dim, chilly night,
    I long for the sun's kindly ray!
      Even I, a poor little Arbutus!

  I was plucked from my beautiful earth,
    And my soul it then quitted its form;
  What since has my life e'er been worth?
    Ah, would I had never been born!
      Thus I sigh, a poor little Arbutus!

  Now to man in my anguish I cry:
    Ah, but what for a sigh does he care?
  To heaven I now raise my eye,
    And mourn in my futile despair!
      Even I, a poor, dying Arbutus!

  Ah, a life for a life--it is just!
    But a life for a nothing, oh, cruel!
  Still low must I languish in dust?
    And is there for me no renewal?
      Ah, for me, poor, broken Arbutus!

  Into elements now I resolve,
    Yet to life I still cling with each breath;
  As slowly away I dissolve,
    Life's sweeter as closer to death!
      Unto me, but a little Arbutus!

  Too precocious the life which I bore,
    Which I drew sweetly in with each breath!
  The fulness of life did no more
    Than ripen a fruitage for death,
      Within me, a too early Arbutus!

THE THIRD YEAR OF THE WAR.

Few persons, at the beginning of this unhappy war, anticipated its prolongation to the present
day. The projected rebellion was so daring and sudden in its appearance, so utterly causeless
and reckless in its pretexts and objects, that an astounded people could scarcely believe it
to be serious in its character and destined to give them any real and protracted trouble. The
rebels themselves fed the credulity of their deluded victims with the promise of a peaceful
separation, or, at the worst, of a short and triumphant contest, to be speedily followed by
a career of boundless prosperity, expansion, greatness, and glory. And, on our part, when we
came at length to understand that war was inevitable, we were scarcely less sanguine in our
anticipation of easy victory and of the instant restoration of that noble Government, which
the domestic enemy, with the most wicked ambition, sought to overthrow and utterly destroy.
Confidently and even boastingly, we contrasted our strength with the weakness of the insurrection;
we numbered our men in comparison with those of the rebellious States, proud of the favorable
result; and we weighed the means of the adversary with our own, in such scales as our sanguine
hopes and extravagant ideas served only too well to impose upon us.

The ultimate basis of our calculation was undoubtedly sound and solid, and the anticipated
result must eventually come according to our original views, though not within the period then
too hastily assigned for the duration of the bloody and disastrous contest. The stupendous
force of our Government is amply sufficient to crush the rebellion in all its vast proportions,
however slowly the great work may be carried on, and however wastefully and unskilfully the
national means may be applied to that indispensable end. Though occasionally baffled in our
projects, we are still advancing on the whole; and there is evidently no possible escape for
the leaders of the rebellion. They must already begin to entertain fearful apprehensions of
their certain ultimate doom. Our great fleet hovers upon their coast and penetrates their bays
and rivers, cutting off most of their commerce with the outside world, and isolating them within
the narrow limits of the territory actually occupied by them; while our immense armies are
pressing them at all important points, with a deliberation and steadiness which evidently spring
from the consciousness of superior strength and the certainty of ultimate triumph. The Mississippi
river is virtually open to our commerce, or at least to the complete occupation of our gunboats
and armies, and the suffering enemy is thus cut off from his communication with Texas, and
from the only available resources on which he can securely rely to sustain him much longer
in his wicked and desperate game of treason. His condition is in the last degree perilous;
he seems to be in the very agony of dissolution, or at least in that stage which immediately
precedes it. His extremities are already cold with the chill of mortal congestion; but the
fever rages all the more fiercely about the vital parts, where the maddened energies of the
whole system are concentrated in the last desperate struggle for life. Possibly there may be
a little reaction here and there, or even a violent convulsive effort of tremendous energy;
an incursion may be made into Kentucky, or some temporary success achieved in other quarters;
but the revival will be deceptive and evanescent, and the fitful return of life to the limbs
will only serve to complete the process of exhaustion and to hasten the final catastrophe.

After two years of civil war, maintained under great embarrassments and disadvantages--two
memorable years, during which all the malignant powers of treason and hate have been arrayed
against the Union with the determined purpose to destroy it--the condition of the Federal Government
is wonderfully good, presenting a vivid contrast to the wretched poverty and prostration of
the ambitious States which have so rashly assailed it. It would be vain to deny the vast injury
suffered by the whole nation, from the inauguration and continuance of this most unnatural
strife. It is chiefly this widespread mischief which constitutes the stupendous crime of the
rebellion. Thousands upon thousands of valuable lives have been sacrificed; the maimed victims
of the war appeal to our sympathies on every side; widows and orphans fill the whole land with
lamentation. These are calamities that cannot be compensated by any material prosperity, however
great and imposing. Besides, it is impossible to conceal from ourselves, upon mature reflection,
that in the present marvellous activity of business and the great abundance of money, we are
drawing largely on the future, and maintaining present prosperity at the cost of burdens which
will weigh heavily both on ourselves and on coming generations. Nevertheless, the wonderful
success of our financial measures and the evidently increasing strength of the Government,
in spite of its immense efforts, and with all the alternations of triumph and defeat, of success
and failure, of good fortune and disaster, cannot fail to inspire every friend of the Union
with hope and confidence. That this great struggle for national existence can be conducted
with so little disturbance to the prosperity of the loyal States, and, indeed, with actual
increase of activity and immediate success in almost all departments of business, affords the
best evidence of the solidity and greatness of our country, and of its ability finally to maintain
itself against the vast and powerful conspiracy by which it has been so vigorously assailed.
At this moment, the domestic foe, notwithstanding his defiant attitude, is actually writhing
in the grasp of an outraged nation; and the foreign enemies of our cause, so recently rejoicing
in our misfortunes and elated with the envious anticipation of our utter overthrow, are now
looking on with silent apprehension and ill-concealed chagrin at the growing strength we exhibit
with every day's experience in the mighty contest. They are disappointed that we are not overwhelmed
by every slight check we suffer, and astounded that we are not at all discouraged even by serious
disasters to our arms. We derive renewed energy and courage from our very reverses, which give
us the inestimable advantage of experience, and enable us finally to turn misfortune into good.
Our determination becomes more fixed and immovable with every demand upon our fortitude; and
thus the power of the nation advances steadily through all the varying incidents of the struggle,
so that now, after these two years of sanguinary civil war, with the gigantic rebellion still
wrestling and warring in the bosom of the republic, we yet stand before the world an object
of respect and fear to those who hate us and wish us evil, while the masses of men in all countries,
who love liberty and desire to escape from despotism, still seek our shores as the very Canaan
of promise and the asylum of freedom, even in the midst of our grand struggle for existence
as a nation.

It is the people, in their national capacity, as distinguished from the mere agents of Government,
who present this sublime spectacle to the view of mankind. The Government for the time being
may commit blunders and follies innumerable; yet behind all these, there is the solid and enduring
judgment of the nation, which will eventually correct all errors, and bring back the wandering
statesman to the paths of common sense and ultimate safety. Two years have not sufficed to
teach us what we require to know in order to bear ourselves altogether nobly and calmly in
so grand an emergency. We have not yet been sufficiently schooled in war, and especially in
the bitter experience of civil war, to be able to resist the pressure of great dangers and
difficulties, and, at the same time, to maintain undisturbed all the ordinary operations of
civil life, and to secure due respect for personal rights and liberties. The mighty and unexampled
convulsion of the whole nation, consequent on the rebellion of a wealthy and powerful section,
which constituted the bulk of one great political party in the country, and which necessarily
had connections of interest and sympathy with large numbers in all the States, has tended to
develop party political animosities to the highest pitch. This terrible excitement, continued
without interruption for two years, has served at least to test the patriotism of the people,
and to determine whether faction was destined so far to prevail as to paralyze the hand of
Government and render secession triumphant through our own dissensions. These fearful contests
of party have run their course up to the present time, without serious trouble; and it is now
apparent that the mass of the people are settled in their devotion to the Union, and will sustain
no man or party in factious opposition to the Government, or even in ill-timed exertions to
obtain redress of acknowledged wrongs, when those exertions are calculated to embarrass the
nation in its mortal struggle for safety and triumph. The existence of the nation, its unity
and tranquillity, are paramount to all personal or party rights and interests; and though we
may be justly indignant that many arbitrary and unnecessary things are done, yet must they
be borne patiently for the sake of the country. The time for accountability will come at last.
Under the pressure of vast responsibilities and difficulties, the agents of the people may
plausibly, or even justly, excuse themselves for almost any irregularity; and the most honest
and devoted patriot may, with apparent truth, be accused of sympathy with the adversary, if
he take occasion, in the midst of great perils, to urge his personal sufferings, to the inconvenience
and annoyance of the Government.

But while the last two years have subjected us to great difficulties, which have been happily
surmounted, if not with entire immunity from evil, at least with substantial safety and great
preponderance of good, we have yet to undergo an ordeal such as every thoughtful man might
well wish to avoid. The greatest of all trials is to come upon us in the course of another
year, if, unhappily, the war should last so long. Nothing could be more unfortunate than one
of our presidential elections, to be carried on in the midst of a horrible civil war. It is
impossible to anticipate the troubles which may ensue--the sympathies which may be expressed
for the rebellion--the intolerance which may seek to suppress freedom of speech under pretext
of preventing the consequences of treason--and the fearful license of denunciation which may
be assumed and permitted, under that natural delicacy which would hesitate to use even a necessary
severity against a political enemy and a rival. Deplorable and dangerous excitement is almost
certain to prevail in all quarters; and we may well congratulate ourselves and our country,
if we should pass through such a contest without having numerous scenes of trouble and even
bloodshed in the war of parties, as episodes and accompaniments to the grand war of the sections.
In its effects on the national cause at home and abroad, the violence of that proceeding will
be something like one of those lamentable occurrences which sometimes take place in the army,
when portions of our own forces, through misapprehension, turn their arms against each other
in the face of the enemy. If we shall not actually take each other's lives, we shall weaken
and distract the country by our dissensions and mutual denunciations. Ambition on both sides--on
the part of those in power seeking to retain it and using their authority for that end, and
on the part of their opponents resisting perhaps beyond the bounds of legitimate opposition--will
shed its baleful influence through the land, and intensify the animosities naturally arising
upon the recurrence of our great quadrennial struggle.

Yet would that grand emergency offer to a wise and patriotic Administration an inestimable
opportunity for the noblest exhibition of unwavering firmness, justice, and self-denial. Should
there be presented an example of perfect singleness of purpose, with no room for suspicion
of sinister objects, or personal ambitions and enmities; should the Administration in all its
departments, devote itself exclusively to the sacred work of preserving the nation, regardless
of all consequences to individuals or parties, then would the approbation of a grateful people
be its sure reward, and the patriotic masses would take care not only of the Government, but
of those, also, who had thus nobly and fearlessly administered it in the critical hour of its
mortal danger. A contrary course would only lead to disaster in the momentous operations of
the war, and to distraction and weakness among the people, whose duty and disposition it is
to sustain the Government in all honest efforts to conquer the rebellion. The temptation insensibly
to depart from this pure and patriotic policy is great and almost irresistible. It is so easy
and so natural for one in power to persuade himself that he ought to retain it, that himself
or his party is the only safe depositary of public authority, and that the general interest
requires him to be sustained by all the means at his command, per fas aut nefas, that few men
in this country ever avoid the error of using official position and patronage to promote personal
and party ends. This is the very bane and opprobrium of our institutions. It has already so
perverted the democratic system, that men of the highest ability and character no longer seek
political position, and seldom succeed if they do. Alas for our country, if this pernicious
practice should prevail in conducting the tremendous operations of the present civil war!--if
the coming presidential election should be permitted to cast the ominous influence of party
intrigue and official mismanagement upon our struggling armies and our heavily taxed people!
Let us fervently pray that our suffering country may escape this danger. It is in the power
of the Administration in a great measure to control the whole subject; and upon it will rest
the chief responsibility for any serious error that may be committed. It will be responsible
not merely for its own conduct, but also for that which it necessitates or provokes on the
part of opposing interests and parties. There must be forbearance, united with firmness and
infinite discretion in the use of just authority. A more difficult position was never occupied
by any party since the organization of the Government. But in proportion to the difficulty
and responsibility will be the merit of a wise and successful administration in this most perilous
crisis.

If the progress of the war thus far, running through more than half of one Administration,
has brought us under the ominous shadow of a coming presidential election, it has, on the other
hand, effected a vast modification of opinion and feeling on some questions from which the
greatest disturbances might well have been anticipated. From the beginning it was felt to be
inevitable that the long continuance of the war would seriously affect the relation of master
and slave directly in the rebellious States, and indirectly in all others wherever that relation
existed. Far more rapidly than could well have been anticipated has this result been effected;
but what is of much greater interest and importance, the violent prejudices of the people have
melted away before the inevitable fact, and even the celebrated proclamation no longer excites
the fierce animadversion with which it was at first greeted. From the escaped slaves of the
rebellious States and the free colored men of the North, negro regiments have been organized
and are still in process of formation. There is no outcry against the policy, but there seems
to be a general acquiescence in the propriety of using the African race to assist in putting
down the traitors who are ready to overthrow all free government in order to perpetuate the
subjugation of that unfortunate people. Had the fortunes of war resulted in a speedy annihilation
of the confederate authority, it would have been utterly impossible to have made any serious
inroad upon the institution of slavery. Sympathy for the Southern people, and a natural indisposition
to inaugurate fundamental changes, always attended with immense temporary disadvantages and
inconveniences, would have prevented any thorough policy of emancipation from being adopted.
But the day of moderation and compromise has now passed by, probably forever. The persistence
of the rebels in their mad scheme, although their efforts were plainly destined to ultimate
defeat, has secured for themselves the greatest boon which even the highest wisdom in the calmest
times could have conferred. Their prodigious folly and wickedness have been overruled by a
higher power, and mercifully directed to the complete regeneration of Southern society. The
operation is severe, but in the end it will be salutary. In a state of continued peace, this
could not have been done. Scores of years would have been required to prepare the Southern
mind for it; but now, by one huge convulsive effort, made by themselves with far different
views, all obstacles are swept away, and slavery is likely to come to a sudden and final end.
A feeble insurrection, soon extinguished, would not have accomplished this work; and even now,
if the war should speedily end, there would be serious embarrassment in disposing of the troublesome
questions arising out of the subject. The continuance of the war, on its present basis, will
soon settle the whole difficulty; and among the many tremendous evils and calamities attending
the progress of the war, this inevitable result is one of the greatest compensations. Few men,
perhaps, would have desired, or, by deliberate action, have promoted this violent destruction
even of so pernicious a system as that which prevailed in the South; but, on the other hand,
with the experience of the last two years, still fewer men, in the loyal States at least, can
be found to deny that the judgment is righteous, and that, in the actual circumstances, it
is destined to be in the end as beneficial to the Southern people themselves, as it is, in
its immediate consequences, just in its retribution for their enormous crime. In the progress
of so tremendous a war, in which, notwithstanding its origin and cause, the insurrectionary
States have strangely been enabled to command foreign capital, together with the sympathy and
even the indirect assistance of foreign powers, it would have been shortsighted in the extreme
to have anticipated that slavery would escape attack. Though made the pretext for violence,
and prominently put forward as the justification of rebellion, it was evidently the weakest
point in the rebel cause, and was, therefore, alike from the choice of the rebels as from the
necessity of the Government, destined to become the central object and pivotal point of the
whole contest. Having once been placed in this position, and fixed in it by the inveterate
enmities of prolonged war, it must from that time abide the arbitrament of arms. Two years
of fierce and calamitous war seem to have brought the South to this alternative: either to
restore the Union with immediate freedom to the slaves, or to accomplish its dissolution, with
a doubtful and troubled continuance of the system for an uncertain period in the future.

If the continuance of the struggle thus far has done so much toward a final settlement of the
most troublesome of all questions growing out of the contest between the North and the South;
if it has probably prepared the way for disposing of slavery in all the States where it now
exists, and even given the African a status as a soldier of the republic; it has also had an
equal effect in other important aspects. It has tended to develop and settle definitely the
political objects and purposes of the contending parties. With the South, these, to some degree,
have necessarily been changed. The original designs of the rebels, whatever they may have been
in the beginning, have been modified according to the stringent exigencies of their condition.
Their daring and ambitious plans have been restrained by the public opinion of the civilized
world, and still more by the limitation of their own resources. So long as their strength was
untried, imagination ran riot, and there was no bound to the magnificence of their bad schemes.
But the experience of two years has taught them that, in their realization, all such wild dreams
are destined to be curtailed within the inexorable limits of possibility. They have only begun
to discover how narrow these limits are to them. Unexpected obstacles have arisen on every
side, and the soaring purposes of the rebellion have vainly beaten their bruised and wearied
wings against the solid walls which circumscribe them within the humble limits of their present
uncertain hopes and expectations. The Federal Government, on the other hand, has not changed
its purpose, as avowed in the beginning, to restore the national authority, in its unity and
integrity, over the whole country. The prospect of accomplishing this end has grown brighter
from the beginning. We have passed through almost all phases of party excitement; faction has
tried its perilous experiments upon the national temper; divisions have been industriously
fomented; and for a time discord has threatened seriously to weaken us. But the patriotism
of the people has finally prevailed, and the question may now be considered settled. The people
not less than the Government are fully committed to the grand purpose of putting down the rebellion
and restoring the Union. Nor does this work, immense as it is, seem to be disproportioned to
the national means and energies. The people believe themselves competent to the mighty task,
and with this patriotic confidence, the undertaking is already more than half accomplished.
The enemy has not the power to defeat our purpose. By our own unhappy divisions, we might possibly
defeat ourselves; but with a united and determined people, there is not the slightest room
for doubt.

The war continues to be carried on solely in the disaffected region. Threats of transferring
the seat of the contest to the loyal States have constantly been made, and are now renewed
with an energy of assertion equal to the longing desires with which the straitened rebels look
upon the fat fields and the groaning storehouses of the Northern States. Their futile threats
do indeed express their wishes or their disordered imaginations, rather than their actual intentions
or their possible achievements. If they could transfer the war to Pennsylvania and Ohio, or
even to Kentucky and Maryland, a new aspect would be given to the controversy, and different
results might well be anticipated. But the time for such enterprises on the part of the rebels,
if it ever existed, has evidently passed by, and is not likely to return. One of the strongest
indications of the ultimate result of the war has been the rigid uniformity with which the
military operations have been continually pushed back upon the soil of the seceded States,
and maintained there in spite of all their efforts to the contrary. In all instances, their
incursions into the States mentioned, though projected upon the grandest scale and with the
most hopeful results, have eventually proved to be miserable failures; and if they have not
always, or even in any instance, met with the severe punishment that ought to have followed
them, it was only because the attempts were too preposterous to have been anticipated by a
vigilant foe, and we were too confident in our strength to make the preparation necessary properly
to repel them. With such experience on our part, after two years of constant efforts to invade
our territories successfully met and more than merely repelled, it would be evidence of gross
inefficiency and weakness in us, to permit the enemy to gain even a temporary foothold in any
one of the loyal States, or even to attempt it, without the complete overthrow and destruction
of the invading force. Our manifest policy is to attack them in their own country, and to hold
them there, until we can annihilate their military power. We have successfully accomplished
one half this programme; but so far we have failed in the other. However humiliating may be
the admission, we are nevertheless compelled to make it. We have not yet overthrown their main
armies in any decisive engagements; although we have achieved many important successes and
made some fatal encroachments on the territory of the enemy, crippling his power and cutting
off his resources. From the very inception of the rebellion, its field of operations has been
gradually contracting. One after another the strongholds of the enemy have fallen into our
hands, and whole regions of his territory have been over run and occupied by our forces, with
every appearance of having been finally and forever lost to them. Our standards, advancing
steadily, though slowly, have not receded anywhere, except temporarily, and then only, it would
seem, to make still further advance into the very heart of the confederacy. With some few exceptions,
such as the withdrawal of the army from the Peninsula, this has been the history of the last
two years; and there is nothing in the present condition of affairs which would appear to forebode
a departure from this uniform progress of our arms. We may complain, perhaps justly, of the
slowness of this process. In the ardor and impatience of our patriotism, we may demand more
rapid and energetic action, claiming that our immense resources shall be used with greater
vigor and concentration, and our vast armies hurled like a thunderbolt upon the enemy, to crush
him with one sudden and overwhelming blow. Truly this would be a grand result--a consummation
most devoutly to be wished--making short work of the bloody war which has so terribly afflicted
our country. This done, there could not be any serious difficulty in resuscitating the love
of Union among the masses in the South, and of reëstablishing the Union on its old foundations.

It may or may not be reasonable to demand such energy and speedy success at the hands of the
Government. At all events, it is natural that the country, having confided unlimited means
to the constituted authorities, should become impatient under the delays and difficulties of
the contest, and that inexperienced men should expect the unequal forces of the two sections
to be brought into quick and decisive conflict, with a result accordant to the relative strength
of the opposing parties. A true Napoleonic genius might well have accomplished this grand result
within the two years that have already passed. But such a mighty spirit has not yet come forth
at the call of our agonized country; or if, perchance, he has made his appearance, he has certainly
not been recognized and received by the powers that be. We must, therefore, needs be contented
with the slow and gradual approach we are evidently making toward a final solution of the bloody
problem. And as, even in the greatest misfortunes, there is often some hidden compensation
for the unhappiness they produce, so in this case, perhaps we may find, in the great changes
destined to be wrought in the condition of the Southern people by their stubborn perseverance
in the war, ground for consolation in the midst of the calamities and bereavements which every
day continues to bring upon us. The Southern rulers and masters pride themselves on their inveterate
animosity. They glory in their own shame, and imagine themselves successful, so long as they
can protract the struggle and renew the slaughter of great battles in which they are not utterly
overthrown, though thousands of innocent victims are sacrificed to their mad and wicked ambition.
But in truth, with every day of continued war they are only the more effectually destroying
themselves, especially in that particular in which they are most anxious and determined to
succeed. For the security of their slave property and the peaceful continuance of the institutions
which sustain it, it would have been far better for them had they been thoroughly beaten and
effectually put down at the very beginning of the war. There might then have been a chance
for slavery to escape, at least for a while. Now it must be admitted there is hardly the vestige
of such a chance. It is almost alike certain that slavery has been shaken to its very foundations
in every State, whether the rebellion shall now either succeed or fail. The rebels have been
wrong in all their calculations. Exactly the reverse of their aims and expectations will be
the reward of their treason. They sought to overthrow the Government in order to perpetuate
slavery; they have only succeeded in overthrowing slavery, to the certain strengthening and
probable perpetuation of the Government they hate.

The leading rebels, occupying the seats of usurped power in their ephemeral confederacy, have
succeeded in arousing and sustaining a considerable feeling of nationality and independence
among the masses of their population. Grasping the sceptre of ill-gotten authority with great
boldness, they have wielded it with a corresponding energy. Their early successes and their
protracted resistance, sustained for more than two years by means of large and formidable armies,
organized, disciplined, and led with great skill, have sufficed to give them credit and support
at home, and much consideration abroad. In the midst of stirring events, carried away by the
first impulse of excitement, the Southern people have not been in a mood to calculate the consequences
of a long struggle. They have been elated and blinded by their apparent triumphs; and they,
whose crafty purpose all the time has been to make use of them for the furtherance of their
own ambitious projects, have been careful to preoccupy the minds of the people, and to conceal
from them, by the plausible pretences and superficial successes of the hour, the certainty
of ultimate discomfiture which has awaited them from the beginning. Occasionally, it is true,
there have been indications that light was beginning to dawn on the popular mind; and in spite
of the complete system of terror and compression which the leaders have inaugurated and sustained
with the utmost determination, and with the most relentless rigor, we have seen every now and
then, in different parts of the confederacy, the vivid flashes of a still living sentiment
of love for the Union. As the hopes of the conspiracy become gradually less bright, this sentiment
of affection for the old and honored Government of our fathers will grow stronger and more
outspoken, and will not be confined to mere individual expressions. When the people begin to
open their eyes and see the strength of the rebellion rapidly wasting away, with the repetition
of its fruitless endeavors; when victories no longer compensate for the privations and horrible
disasters which follow in their track; when, finally, they understand, as they soon must, that
the whole movement is destined to end in utter failure, and that this failure is to be only
the more overwhelming the longer the unhappy contest shall be continued, a complete revulsion
of feeling may well be expected to take place. Many things in the course of the struggle have
combined to delay the advent of this inevitable change. The progress of our arms has been extremely
slow, with many checks and defeats in those campaigns and at those points which seemed to be
the most important. If we have been successful in the West, it has not been without protracted
efforts and immense expenditure of life and means--a long and bloody struggle, the uncertainty
of which has not tended to strengthen us during its pendency. On the other hand, the brilliant
successes of the rebels on the Rappahannock and at Charleston have not been fully counteracted
by their actual and definitive discomfiture in other quarters. When Vicksburg and Port Hudson
fall, as fall they must, the emptiness of all their triumphs will be felt and appreciated.
Bull Run, twice famous, Fredericksburg, Charleston, Chancellorsville--all will then appear
in their true light as magnificent phantoms of delusive success, alluring the proud victors
to further fruitless efforts and barren victories, only to overwhelm them with more tremendous
ruin, in the end which is slowly but certainly approaching.

Thus the continuance of the war, with its exhausting expenditures and its bloody sacrifices
of life, is destined to be not altogether without its advantages in other respects besides
its influence on the great question of slavery. It is preparing the public mind of the South
for a most vehement reaction against all the false ideas which have been the animating spirit
of the rebellion. In proportion to the greatness of the conflict, the immensity of its disasters,
its delusive promises and barren victories, will be the thoroughness of the discomfiture, the
completeness of the overthrow, the utter disgrace of the confederate cause, and of the men
who have been its authors and leading representatives. It will be impossible for the Southern
people to say, 'We have been engaged in a noble cause; we have failed for the time being; but
there is a future for us in which we shall surely triumph.' On the contrary, every Southern
man will feel that there is no resurrection for the bad designs which will thus have been forever
prostrated. They have in them none of the elements of resuscitation. Failure in the present
contest is annihilation forever. The very foundation and active power of the fatal movement
will have been swept away, while at the same time the authors and the cause alike will be stamped
with eternal infamy, as having aimed at the subversion of human liberty, and only succeeded
in producing ruin and devastation to the beautiful region which they have misled and betrayed
into a wicked war. The events of the mighty conflict will live in history, but only as an example
of just punishment for a great crime, and as a solemn warning against the indulgence of selfish
and unprincipled ambition in all future ages.

'That's well, at any rate,' quoth Hiram to himself. 'No one will think of attacking the old
gentleman, if he does secure a portion of his property, or, rather, nobody will suspect him
of attempting it. He is bound in honor to me [oh, Hiram! honor!] to protect his daughter. Such
was really the agreement, that is, by implication, when we became engaged. It won't be honest
if he leaves me in the lurch. He need not think that he can do that, though. Twelve thousand
dollars! Why, it will scarcely board the old folks in any decent place; and who does he think
is going to marry his daughter at that rate?' * * *

Hiram was at the house at his usual hour. It was a lovely evening, about the first of June,
and as he walked slowly along, he caught a glimpse of Emma through the blinds. She was seated
at a window, evidently watching for his coming. He could perceive, before she knew it was he,
that her countenance was troubled. Hiram turned away his head. Evidently something attracted
him in another direction.

Mr. Tenant resided in a handsome house in one of the finest squares of the city. As Hiram mounted
the steps, he paused a moment to survey the scene. The trees were in full leaf, and the odor
of flowers filled with their fragrance the evening air.

'No, he must not give this up,' he muttered.

He turned and rang the bell sharply. It was a habit of Emma to open the door herself when she
saw him coming, but this time the servant responded to the summons.

Hiram passed into the front parlor without speaking. As he approached Emma, she rose and threw
herself into his arms, and burst into tears. She did not attempt to speak, but kept sobbing
as if heart-broken.

Hiram stood still, and, in consequence of his undecided state of mind, a good deal embarrassed.

'Why, what is the matter, Emma?' he said at length. 'Has anything happened to your father or
mother?'

'You know what has happened,' she finally articulated.

'Well, my dear child, is that anything to be so distressed about?'

'Don't you care?' she exclaimed, looking up joyfully.

'To be sure I care, but only on your account, and'--

'Oh, never think of me. I shall be the most light-hearted creature in the world. I was only
afraid--afraid'--

'Of what, pray?'

'I cannot tell. That--that--perhaps--perhaps--you would not--that--papa's losing everything
might make a difference in your feelings. Now don't be angry. (Hiram was looking grave.) I
did not really think it would; but--but the bare possibility has made me so very unhappy--so
very, very unhappy!' and she began to cry again.

'Come, Emma, you must not be so foolish. Sit down now with me, and let me say a few words to
you; for your father will want me in a few minutes, and I shall have to be with him all the
evening.'

'Oh, I am so glad; you will be such a comfort to him. I know you will.'

Hiram made no reply; both took their seats, and then he spoke.

'Emma,' he said, in a tone so solemn and important that it struck terror to her soul, she knew
not wherefore--'Emma, this is a momentous period of your life, and everything depends on the
steps you take'--

'Why, Hiram, what do you mean--what can you mean?'

'Nothing to alarm you, but everything to impress you with the fact that no time is to be lost.
Your father has made the foolish resolution to give up all his private property to his creditors'--

'So he told mamma and me. Is that not right?'

'No, it is not right. It is wrong,' replied Hiram, in a harsh tone. 'More than wrong--sinful--wicked,
very wicked. Do you know who it is the Scripture says is worse than an infidel?'

'I do not,' she replied faintly.

Hiram intended to frighten her, and he had succeeded.

'You do not! Well, it is the man who fails to provide for his own household. Why, we had the
text in our Sunday-school lesson only three weeks ago.'

Emma sat paralyzed.

'Now, Emma,' continued Hiram, 'I want you to see your mother, and tell her what I say. Tell
her your father is determined to ruin the whole of you--going to give up this very house--just
think of that.'

'Papa has already told us so,' said Emma in a low, timid tone; 'but he says it is the only
honorable course.'

'Honorable!' exclaimed Hiram, pettishly. 'Stuff--nonsense. I tell you that you are all crazy.
You don't think what you are about. Wait till you are turned out of doors, bag and baggage,
then see how you will feel--but then it will be too late. Do you understand?'

Emma Tenant was not a brilliant girl, but she had good sense and an honest nature. By degrees
she recovered from the stupor into which Hiram's onslaught threw her; she began to feel something
of her lover's purpose, and appreciate something of the position he might soon assume. Loving
and trustful, these faint glimmerings of the truth appalled her. She did not cry any more.
She became pale. She breathed short and quick.

'Hiram,' she gasped, 'you mean something--I fear you mean something. Papa knows best what is
honest, better than you--a young man. To lose our property would make me unhappy. And I thought--yes,
I conceived--oh, Hiram--tell me--am I going to lose you?' she cried, interrupting herself.
'If it be so, say it--say it now. Do not keep me in suspense.'

'Why, Emma, how nervous you are! Ah, here comes your father. I see you are waiting for me.
I am quite ready, sir.'

'Good. Emma, can you spare him for one evening? You will soon have him all to yourself--eh?'
and, with a pleasant tap on her cheek, Mr. Tenant turned and left the room.

Hiram followed without saying a word.

Emma sat by herself an hour--at least an hour. The servant came in to light the gas, but she
would not permit it. I won't attempt to describe her thoughts.

At length she rose, and took her way to her mother's room. She told her just what had passed.
Mrs. Tenant was a superior woman. Her experience taught her, despite her good opinion of Hiram,
for he had spared no pains to present himself favorably, that he might prove to be merely mercenary.
Yet, after all, she did not think it probable. She said all she consistently could say to soothe
her child, without absolutely declaring that she believed her fears to be groundless. That
she dared not utter. She finished by a very common and rational argument, which, by the way,
has very little comfort in it:

'I know, my darling, that you love him, but you cannot love a mean, low-spirited creature;
and if he prove to be such, let us be thankful for your escape.'

She kissed and caressed her child--her only child. But her words were poor consolation to Emma,
whose heart was devoted to this man--very meagre consolation. Mrs. Tenant knew it; but what
could she say or do more, just then? She could only watch and stand ready to protect her daughter's
happiness, when events should decide what course she was to take.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hiram spent the entire evening looking over accounts and papers with Mr. Tenant. His manner
was quiet but assiduous. Very useful he made himself. Frequently in the course of the evening
he drew from that gentleman well-merited encomiums on his clear head and methodical ideas.

As he was about leaving--it was fully twelve o'clock, and Mr. Tenant had just thanked him for
the twentieth time--Hiram ventured to speak again about his property.

'Dear sir, I feel impelled to speak once more to you. Do listen to me. Do not beggar yourself,
and then turn yourself out of doors. Permit me to tell you that you can save this house very
easily.'

'I know it, Hiram. I know it. Don't think I have forgotten Emma and you. I have thought it
all over. Recollect, I don't blame you. I know it is Emma you are thinking about. But, my dear
boy, I can't do it--it would not be honest. I can't do it. Never mind, we shall be all the
happier for doing right--all the happier, all the happier. I will see you to-morrow. Good night.
God bless you.'

They had gradually got to the door, and Hiram, echoing the good night, stepped into the street.

''God bless you,' indeed,' he muttered. 'Soft words butter no parsnips. 'God bless you!' What
idle profanity!'

He walked slowly down the street, unconscious that a young face from a window of the second
story watched his retreating steps--that a young heart beat painfully as he passed out of sight.

A few moments later Emma's mother entered her room, and found her still at the window.

'Not yet in bed?' she said tenderly. 'I thought you left me because you were too much fatigued
to sit up.' She came and put her arms about her daughter's neck and kissed her.

'My dear, I have joyful news for you. Your papa says Hiram takes just the right view of everything--that
nothing can be more satisfactory than his whole conversation. He explained all to Hiram, and
he declares he never passed a happier evening in his life. Is not that worth coming to tell
you of?'

'Indeed, it is, dear mamma.'

'Now you can sleep?'

'Oh yes.'

But she did not sleep, though. It is not so easy to recover from a heart shock such as she
had just experienced. No, she did not sleep a moment during the night. Hiram's harsh, repulsive
tone and manner haunted her. Oh, how they haunted her! Never before had he exhibited such traits.
Whatever the future had in store for her, here was a revelation, sudden, unexpected, true.

       *       *       *       *       *

Honest, simple-minded Mr. Tenant! How he is chattering away to his wife, repeating again and
again his encomiums on Hiram, till she is really convinced. Why should she not be?

Meanwhile Hiram has reached his lodgings. He goes through with his usual devotions, and is
soon sound asleep. From his composed manner it may reasonably be inferred that he has made
up his mind just what course to take.

CHAPTER VII.

'Mr. Meeker!'

There was no answer.

'Mr. Meeker!'

The accent was one of sudden distress and alarm. There was a short pause, when the call was
renewed.

'Mr. Meeker!'

'What is it? What is the matter? Is anything the matter?'

A slight groan.

Mr. Meeker sprang from his bed as if he were a young man, and made haste to light a candle.

'My dear, are you ill?'

'I don't know. It's something strange.'

Mrs. Meeker's voice sounded so unnatural that her husband hurried to the other side of the
bed. He found his wife helpless, unable to change her position. Her articulation was very difficult,
and her countenance presented a ghastly appearance, for one half of her appeared to be completely
paralyzed.

It was the work of a few moments to alarm the house and despatch a messenger for the doctor.
But what could a physician avail when nature refused longer to perform her office? The doctor
could investigate, and the result of his examination was most alarming. Voluntary action over
one half the frame quite suspended; what was worse, there was little or no sensation. The poor
woman essayed to speak from time to time, but with repulsive contortions, so that her words
sounded like idiotic babble. As her husband bent over her, she seized his arm with the hand
still live, and with distinctness said:

'Send for Hiram.'

This was in time for the mail which closed in twenty minutes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hiram rose the morning after the long session at Mr. Tenant's house, cool and refreshed by
his undisturbed slumber. Arriving at his counting room, he received, among his other correspondence,
a letter, which read as follows:

     MY DEAR SON: Your mother has been taken alarmingly ill. Come home
     at once. Your affectionate father,

                                                       F. MEEKER.

What a load off Hiram's mind by the receipt of this brief note! The idea of a fond, devoted
mother, struck down by a possibly fatal illness, did not present itself for an instant, or
if it did, it was without effect on him.

He breathed a deep relieved respiration, while he articulated, just above a whisper, 'How very
Providential!'

The New Haven boat left at one o'clock. Hiram spent a most active morning. Hill was summoned,
and kept on the run all the time. No explanations, though, except "a sudden call out of town."
Arrangements were made which looked to an absence prolonged into weeks. The bank was visited
with reference to what might be required, and the news of his mother's dangerous illness turned
to advantage in the most effective way.

All was ready.

It was just half past twelve o'clock. Hiram sat down, and taking up a torn piece of paper,
scratched off a blurred and nearly unintelligible scrawl as follows:

                                                         12-1/2 P.M.

     DEAR EMMA: I have this moment received the enclosed. I leave in
     fifteen minutes. Barely time to send this.

                                                                  H.

This note he despatched by a messenger, and went directly on board the boat. There he found
his brother, Dr. Frank, who had also been summoned by his father, although not mentioned in
Mrs. Meeker's request. The brothers shook hands. The Doctor's heart was softened by the afflictive
intelligence, and Hiram felt in a very placable humor, in consequence of the 'special interposition'
that day made in his behalf. They did not converse much, however. Hiram sat most of the time
quietly in a corner of the boat, looking over various commercial papers, while Dr. Frank walked
up and down the deck, enjoying the cool breeze and the pleasant landscape presented on either
side, despite the melancholy thoughts which were from time to time forced on him, in view of
the alarming letter he had received. But he was familiar with disease and every corporeal malady.
His nature was buoyant and sanguine. He had the confidence of a man of true genius in his own
powers, and this did not permit any very grave doubts about the result of his mother's illness.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Emma Tenant received Hiram's note, she expressed but one feeling, one sensation: that
of earnest and profound sympathy from the bottom of a heart earnest and sympathetic.

'Poor Hiram,' she said to herself. 'Poor, dear Hiram. He has been obliged to leave suddenly
without a word of consolation and kindness from me. And I was unkind to him last night. I know
I was. Poor fellow; but I will make up for it when he comes back. I will never distrust him
again. Never.'

       *       *       *       *       *

The stage reached Hampton at the usual time. The passengers had ridden all night, and now descended
glum and stiff to stretch their limbs for breakfast. A nice double wagon stood waiting. It
was driven by the younger brother.

'How are you, Ned?' said the Doctor, first getting out. 'How is mother?'

'Oh, very bad, Frank; very bad. Past all hope, the doctors say.'

'What is it?'

'Paralysis.'

'Good God! you don't tell me so?'

The other nodded.

All this time Hiram stood calmly listening, but not saying a word. He was greatly relieved.
He felt sure that he could not return to New York for two or three weeks, and--he was to be
married in three weeks.

Dr. Frank was the first to enter the sick room. Though a physician, accustomed to every form
of disease, he was appalled at the change in his mother's appearance. On this, however, we
will not dwell. Mrs. Meeker had been gradually sinking since the first attack. She was quite
sensible, however. Dr. Frank approached the bed and kneeled down and addressed his mother tenderly.

The poor woman tried to articulate, and after many efforts, she gasped--'Hiram.'

'He has come,' replied Dr. Frank, 'and will be with you in a moment.'

This seemed to relieve her, and the Doctor proceeded to investigate the case as far as was
necessary. There could be but one conclusion--Mrs. Meeker was soon to pass away from this world.
She was beyond the reach of medical aid.

Dr. Frank stepped into the sitting room, and beckoned Hiram to go in. Then came a very touching
scene. When the mother became conscious of the presence of her darling boy, she essayed to
give exhibitions of her feelings. It is impossible to describe these. To have him hold her
lifeless hand, to endeavor to press his own with the one which was still in part vital, to
pass her fingers over his face, and strive to put her arm around his neck, seemed to render
her perfectly happy. But her strength was soon exhausted, and she was obliged to rest. What
appeared to afflict her most was that she could not articulate with distinctness. She evidently
wished to commune with her son, but it was impossible. She did, however, give utterance to
a few words, which were perhaps an index to her thoughts:

'Good--be good--good man,' were plainly intelligible. 'Too worldly--not' * * * (the words were
not audible). 'Treasure in heaven--in heaven.'

By which disconnected sentences one might hope, and, I think, reasonably infer that Mrs. Meeker,
in view of that eternity for which she had been so long, as she thought, preparing, suddenly
saw things in a new and different light, and desired effectually and lovingly, to impress the
same on her favorite child. Hiram, during the interview, behaved like a model son--pliant,
sorrowful, devoted, affectionate. But it would make you shudder if you could have looked into
his heart.

       *       *       *       *       *

When his mother became exhausted, so as no longer to be sensible of his presence, he stole
softly out of the room, and breathed long and freely, as one safely through with some difficult
performance or operation.

Meanwhile Dr. Frank was sitting with his father. Very affecting was the interview. The old
man had at no time been ready to believe the attending physician, who could give him no hope.
When 'Frank' came, he would know all about it. And so he did, but his knowledge could bring
no comfort--only a confirmation of what had already been announced.

'She can't recover, father. She can't recover,' and the stout man began to sob. In the presence
of his parent he was again a child, and the latter instinctively became consoler. Mr. Meeker,
as we have intimated, though old, was not infirm, and it was a curious sight to witness his
efforts to comfort his boy, while he himself so much more required sympathy.

       *       *       *       *       *

So the day passed. The next morning Dr. Frank was obliged to return to the city, for his patients
demanded his presence. He first had a consultation with the attending physician. Nothing remained
for Mrs. Meeker but wearisome days and nights till death should release her, and all that a
medical man could do was to make her as comfortable as possible.

There was a small room adjoining the one where Mrs. Meeker lay, which Hiram took possession
of. It had a pleasant window looking out on the garden, and it contained a small cot bedstead,
besides a table and chairs. Here Hiram spent most of his time busily occupied. By every mail
he received letters from New York, detailing with minuteness just what took place in his affairs
from day to day. In short, his private office was moved from New York to Hampton, and the only
apparent inconvenience was that he did business at arm's length, as they say. Daily came a
letter from Hill, although Hill was not in Hiram's counting room. Daily was an answer returned.

There was some one else who wrote Hiram just as regularly. Among the business letters, written
in various hands and on various kinds of paper, could always be seen a small, neatly folded
sheet, having a refined and delicate superscription. It was from Emma Tenant. She had forgotten
all that was unpleasant and disagreeable in their last interview, on receiving her lover's
hurried-looking scrawl, and, as if by a sudden rebound, her sympathies were roused to an extraordinary
degree for 'poor Hiram--dear Hiram,' whom she 'treated so coldly' the last time they met. I
need not say her notes were full of the most tender sympathy and condolence.

These letters bored Hiram exceedingly. The second day after reaching Hampton he had written
Emma another of his hastily got up epistles, which contained just six lines, stating that he
had found his mother in a dying condition, and was watching at her bedside. He did not intend
to write again, but Emma's letters were so persistent that, despite his resolution, he did
despatch two other notes, each more hasty and illegible and more distracted in tenor than the
previous one. In fact the last had no signature at all.

At length Emma was so completely carried away by Hiram's distress, that she actually desired
to proceed to Hampton, where she felt her presence would act like a balm to his sorrowful and
bruised heart. Her mother, of course, would permit no such indiscreet step, so that Emma had
to rest satisfied with writing long, loving letters.

Hiram, meantime, was not without his harmless recreations.

[All the town seemed to have been informed how devoted Hiram was to his sick mother. Nobody
knew, however, of the secret of the little room adjoining, and of our hero's busy hours there.]

In the cool of the afternoon he would take a walk into the village. He called on his old master,
Benjamin Jessup, who still maintained the opposition store as against the Smiths. Jessup was
the same good-natured, jovial fellow as ever, but all token of familiarity died away when Hiram,
entering his place, saluted him with the quiet air and manner of recognized superiority--yet,
as you would say, pleasantly enough. The rich New York shipping merchant inspired the country
storekeeper with awe.

Hiram enjoyed all this vastly, and talked amiably with Jessup about old times. He walked complacently
over the village, stopping every few steps to have a word with his numerous acquaintances.

One afternoon, as he was taking his usual walk to the village, and had nearly reached it, he
met a lady whom at first he did not recognize, but who appeared to know him from a distance.

It was Mary Jessup--now Mrs. Mary Williams--who stopped the way, and whose face crimsoned as
she approached. She had been married four or five years--well married, as the phrase is. Her
appearance had greatly improved. Her form was finely developed. She had become stouter, and
was really more blooming than when she was a girl.

I have said she blushed, but not from any sense of mortification, such as is not unfrequently
experienced when one of the sex, feeling conscious that time has not dealt kindly with her,
meets an old friend after a lapse of years, and dreads the first scrutinizing gaze. On the
contrary, Mary Williams was fully sensible of her improved good looks, and this gave to her
a certain self-possession of manner which prevented the least awkwardness on her part.

Still she blushed--from old recollections, doubtless, and because Hiram had not before greeted
her as a married woman.

'Why, how do you do, Mr. Meeker? I am very glad to see you, even by accident. I heard of you
at father's, and I think you might, for old acquaintance, sake, have stepped in to see me.
Mr. Williams, too--you used to know him--would be very glad to see you.'

Mrs. Williams was determined to have the first word, and she took advantage of it. She looked
very handsome, and acted more and more at ease as she proceeded, especially after the reference
to Mr. Williams.

[Women always like to allude to their husbands in presence of an old admirer; as much as to
say, 'Don't think I am without somebody to care for and protect me;' or, 'Don't fancy I mean
to forget my husband because I choose to be chattering with you;' or--or--or--a dozen things else.]

Hiram replied in his old artful way, very seriously, and with an air of sadness (as he made
allusion to his mother's situation), yet with a touch of embarrassment (all assumed), while
his voice assumed a tenderness of feeling which it would seem impossible for him to restrain
in consequence of the suddenness of the meeting.

'Is she indeed so ill?' asked Mrs. Williams. 'We understood she was greatly afflicted by a
stroke of paralysis, but I had no thought of immediate danger.'

'She cannot live,' replied Hiram, his lips quivering.

'Oh, Mr. Meeker, do not say that. I cannot bear to hear it. You know how attached I always
was to your mother.'

'Call me Hiram,' was the response. 'It will put me in mind of old times.'

'Well, I don't know but it is more natural, for I declare I have hardly set eyes on you since
you left our house.'

Hiram sighed.

'Well, I suppose I shall not see you again for another five years; so I had best say, 'Good-by.''

They were standing at a point where a lane led off from the main street.

'Which way are you going?' asked Hiram.

'Just a few steps down the lane, and then home.'

'Shall you be detained long?'

'Only a minute. I have just to run in and leave a pattern, if you must know.'

'Then I will walk along with you, if you have no objections. I am out for a little necessary
exercise.'

'Objections? why, I shall be delighted.' * * *

They sauntered down the lane to the place indicated by Mrs. Williams, where a sign over the
door, 'Fashionable Dressmaker,' explained the feminine nature of her errand. Leaving there,
the two walked on till they reached a spot where they used to stroll together in old times.

'Now I think of it,' said Mrs. Williams, as she came out of the house and rejoined her companion,
'I forgot to ask you if you are married, because if you are, I need make no apology for marching
you by a dressmaker's establishment.

'Don't you know whether I am married or not?'

'Why, how should I? I certainly think you ought to be by this time. Why don't you marry Miss
Burns, or Louise Hawkins, or Charlotte, or--or'--

'Or whom?' asked Hiram.

'Oh, I dare say there are ever so many more, ever so many. So you are not married?'

'Do you think I am, Mary?' * * *

As I was saying, the two sauntered on till they reached a spot that had been favorite ground
for their sentimental strolls. Both knew well enough, when Hiram proposed to walk down the
lane, where they would land, for it was in both their minds. Mrs. Williams fancied it would
amuse her and furnish a little variety. She was very sure of herself, and knew 'just what a
flirt Hiram was.'

Hiram--but never mind what he thought.

       *       *       *       *       *

Although the days were at their longest, it was quite dark before Mrs. Williams reached her
own door. She entered it--after a hurried 'good evening' to Hiram--flushed, excited, and with
feelings generally disturbed. Contrary to her resolution, in opposition to her judgment, and,
I may say, against her will, she listened to the old familiar accents breathed in more impassioned
tones than ever before, while relieved by a gloss of sentimental sadness.

What had she been doing, and where had the hours fled? To what was she listening, whose arm
did she hold, and whose hand ventured to enclose hers?

[It was 'only in sisterly friendship.' That was Hiram's observation as he took it.]

Before she was aware of it, twilight was disappearing in the darkness.

She started as if recovering herself, and commenced to walk hurriedly toward home. Hiram by
no means relished the pace, but he was forced to keep up, and, as I have observed, with an
abrupt 'good evening' he was summarily dismissed.

But he had enjoyed himself exceedingly, and he walked slowly toward his house, recalling every
little word which, as he believed, disclosed the true state of Mary Williams's affections.
Scoundrel that he was, he gave not a thought to what might be the consequence if he persevered
in his wicked attempt to interest her. In fact, he made up his mind that it would make the
time pass less heavily while he was detained in the neighborhood.

Do not suppose the calculating wretch intended to push the 'flirtation' beyond what he called
brotherly and sisterly conduct. Not he. There might arise some charge of criminality or wrong,
which would endanger his position, or weaken his claims to the 'kingdom.'

Hiram reached home and found his mother much worse. By signs and every other manifestation
in her power, she had intimated her wish to see him. Now she was quite speechless.

When Mrs. Williams entered her house, the 'tea table' was still spread, and her husband wondering
what had become of her. Her little girl shouted in a joyful tone as she came in, 'Here is mamma,'
and Mr. Williams's countenance was instantly relieved from an expression of suspense.

'Why, Mary, where have you been?'

For an instant Mrs. Williams was on the point of fabricating an answer. But her better angel
was on guard just then. The evil spell was dissolved, while she replied, with one of her pleasant
laughs:

'You could never guess. I met Hiram Meeker on my way to the dressmaker's. You know he is here
attending on his mother. Well, we undertook to stroll over some of our old walks, and, before
I knew it, talking about old times and old scenes, it was dark. More fool I for wasting my
time and keeping tea waiting.'

'Why did he not come in?'

'To tell you the truth, I never asked him. I was so frightened when I saw how late it was,
I hurried away home, and left him at the door to do the same.'

Mary Williams was relieved. She went about the duties of her household with a light heart.
And Hiram Meeker, during his stay at Hampton, found no further opportunity for 'brotherly conferences'
with her.

CHAPTER VIII.

Mrs. Meeker died the next week.

The funeral took place on the day which had been fixed for Hiram's marriage with Emma Tenant.
After it was over, William Meeker removed with his wife from the small house to live with his
father, and we will say here that both contributed much to make Mr. Meeker's latter days happy.

Hiram did not wait an hour, but took the stage the same afternoon, while Dr. Frank remained
with his father over the next day.

One morning, two or three days after his return, Hiram presented himself at the house and inquired
for Mrs. Tenant. On this occasion he was cased in a complete suit of the deepest black, with
crape reaching to the very top of his hat. He was the picture of despairing grief.

It happened that Emma was not at home, so that Mrs. Tenant was not surprised that she should
be sent for. She did not know Hiram had not inquired for her daughter. She came in with the
impression that he was all that he should be; his failure to write often being thought quite
excusable under the circumstances.

She had not, however, advanced three steps into the room before feeling there was something wrong.

Hiram, regarded in a certain light, presented a most comical, though most lugubrious appearance.
He was so completely acting a part that his very looks and gestures, and, in short, the minutest
movements of his body, were manifestly 'got up.' One would think an automaton had been employed
and set to work to do a certain amount of mourning, and furnish the requisite quantity of family
grief.

Nevertheless Mrs. Tenant advanced and greeted Hiram cordially.

He put out the tips of his fingers, produced his pocket handkerchief, as if to be ready for
an overflow, but uttered no word, no articulate sound.

This continued for at least five minutes, Mrs. Tenant endeavoring to say something the while
by way of condolence.

'I shall never recover from the shock,' at last he ejaculated; 'never!'

He did not look Mrs. Tenant in the face, but kept his eyes fixed on vacancy.

'I am very sorry Emma is not in, but you will not have to wait long,' remarked Mrs. Tenant at last.

'I do not think I shall be able to see her,' said Hiram, with a groan.

'Not see her; not see Emma? Why, what do you mean?' exclaimed the mother, now fully roused.

'This is no period to devote myself to things of time and sense. I feel that all my thoughts
should be centred on eternity.'

[You should have seen the activity Hiram had been displaying in his counting room since his
return.]

This was enough for Mrs. Tenant. She understood him now, and determined to bring matters at
once to a crisis.

'Mr. Meeker,' she said, 'will you be so kind as to step with me into the library a few moments?'

Hiram acquiesced.

She rang the bell, and said to the servant:

'When Miss Tenant comes in, request her to go to my room, and wait for me there.

'Now, Mr. Meeker,' she said, as soon as they were seated, 'let me ask you a plain question:
Is it your intention to break your engagement with my daughter?'

'Really, ma'am, I do not wish to speak on the subject at present,' whispered Hiram, looking
at the crape on his hat.

'But you must, you shall speak. Do you think you can trifle with me, sir?'

Hiram was silent.

'SPEAK! I say. Do you intend to keep your engagement with my daughter?'

Thus invoked, Hiram murmured something about--'under the circumstances'--his 'great affliction'--'change
in your own family'--'business troubles'--'not sure of his own situation'--'perhaps it would
be best not to consider it a positive engagement'--'that is, for the present'--'after a season
should'--

The street-door bell rang, and Mrs. Tenant heard not another word. Her heart scarcely beat
as she listened to the footsteps of the old servant along the hall. Agitated by a rush of tumultuous
emotions, she was unable to breathe during the short parley between Emma and the domestic.

At length she heard the welcome sound of Emma's step up the staircase, and she drew a long
full breath of relief. Then she started up and rang the bell sharply, yes, furiously, and remained
standing till the servant, with quickened pace, came in.

'William, show Mr. Meeker the door.'

Hiram sprang to his feet. He did not like the general look matters were assuming.

'Go,' said Mrs. Tenant, pointing to the entrance.

In less than a quarter of a minute Hiram was walking down the street.

'It is over with me, anyhow,' he muttered.

But for once in his life he felt very small. 'To be turned out of doors by a woman; still,
nobody will know it.' He was soon busy in his counting room, examining one of Hill's invoices.

Mrs. Tenant threw herself on the sofa, and was apparently lost in thought for several minutes.
Then she rose and went to her daughter.

THE CHICAGO (ILLINOIS) AND OTHER CANALS.

                                 CORK, Ireland, April 18, 1863.
  HON. ISAAC N. ARNOLD, M.C.,
        Chicago, Illinois.

DEAR SIR:

Here I am in this beautiful city, in glorious old Ireland, so many of whose gallant sons have
fallen in our defence, and thousands more of whom now fight the battles of our country. When
I think of Shields, and Meagher, and Corcoran, and their brave associates, shedding their blood
that the Union may live; when I feel myself surrounded here by friends of my country, and realize
how fervently all Ireland desires our success, my heart swells with gratitude for this noble
race, and my prayers are, that Providence would crown them with every blessing.

When you received my promise to attend as a delegate the Chicago Canal Convention, little was
it then supposed by me, that duty would call me before that time to Europe. So much of my promise,
however, as embraced the discussion of the question, will now be redeemed. The project of an
enlarged thorough-cut canal, uniting Chicago and the lakes with the Illinois river and Mississippi,
has long attracted my attention. As a Senator of the United States, for many years, from a
Southwestern State, then devoted to the Union, and elected to the Senate on that question,
I have often passed near or over the contemplated route, always concluding, that this great
work should be accomplished without delay. Every material interest of our whole country demands
the construction of this canal, and the perpetuity of the Union is closely identified with
its completion. It is for the nation's benefit, and should be the nation's work. It will give
new outlets to the Mississippi, through the lakes, to the ocean, and neutralize that too exclusive
attraction of Western commerce to the Gulf, which has so often menaced the integrity of the
Union. We must make the access from the Mississippi, through the lakes, to the ocean, as cheap,
and easy, and eventually as free from tar or toll, as to the Gulf, and the flag of disunion
will never float again over an acre of the soil, or a drop of all the waters of the mighty West.

It is clear that, centuries ago, the lakes and Mississippi were united, through the Illinois
and Wisconsin rivers, and we must remove the obstructions, now divorcing their waters, and
restore their union, by thorough-cut canals. In a few years, the saving of transportation,
in a single year, would more than pay the cost of the work. The increase of population, wealth,
products, imports, exports, and revenue, which would follow the completion of this work, can
scarcely now be estimated, and it should be accomplished if for no other reason, as a most
profitable investment of capital for the benefit of the nation.

But, great as is the importance of these enlarged canals, uniting the Illinois and Wisconsin
rivers with the lakes, other great works, connecting with the East, are indispensable. But
great as is the importance of these are the enlarged locks of the Erie, Champlain, Black River,
Syracuse, and Oswego, Cayuga, Seneca, Chemung, and Elmira to the Pennsylvania State line, Rochester,
and Alleghany River. Nearly all of these are 70 feet wide and 7 feet deep, and require only
an enlargement of the locks, whilst a few require to be widened and deepened. The Chemung canal
connects the Susquehanna with the Erie canal, at Montezuma, and the Chenango is nearly completed
to the north branch of the Susquehanna at the Pennsylvania State line, whence, the Susquehanna
canal passes through Wilkesbarre, Northumberland, Middleton, and Wrightsville, to Havre de
Grace, in Maryland, on tide water, at the head of Chesapeake Bay. The great canal, from the
southern boundary of New York, down the Susquehanna to tide water, is now five feet deep, and
from 40 to 50 feet wide, and can all be readily enlarged to the dimensions of the Erie canal.
With these works thus enlarged, the connection of the lakes would not only be complete with
the Hudson, and by the Delaware and Raritan canal with the Delaware, and by the Delaware and
Chesapeake canal with the Chesapeake Bay, but also by the direct route, down the Susquehanna,
to Baltimore, Norfolk, and Albemarle Sound. Is not this truly national, and is it not equally
beneficial, to the East and the West, to open all these routes for large steamers? The system,
however, would not be complete, without uniting Champlain with the St. Lawrence, Ontario with
Erie, and Huron and Michigan with Superior.

The enlarged works should also be provided through Wisconsin, Indiana, Ohio, and western Pennsylvania,
to the lakes, to the extent that these canals can be made of the dimensions of the Erie, and
supplied with water. Nor should we forget the widening of the canal at Louisville, the removal
of obstructions in the St. Clair flats and upper Mississippi, and the deepening of the mouth
of this great river. The construction of these works would be costly, but as a mere investment
of capital, for the increase of our wealth and revenue, they would pay the nation tenfold.

As the main object of these works is cheap transportation, the tolls should be diminished,
as the works were completed, to the full extent that freight could be carried more cheaply
in large boats, and provision should be made for an adequate sinking fund, so as gradually
to liquidate the whole cost, and then to collect no more toll than would pay to keep the works
in repair. Such is the true interest of the States and of the nation. If New York could collect
a toll for navigating the Hudson, it would be against her interest, for the diminution and
diversion of business, and tax on labor and products, would far exceed the net proceeds of
any such toll. The same principle will apply to these canals. As some of them, unfortunately,
are owned by private companies, adequate provision should be made, to prevent these aids from
being perverted to purposes of individual speculation. The Erie and Ontario canal, at the falls
of Niagara, and the Superior, Huron, and Michigan canal (less than a mile long), at the falls
of St. Mary, should be made ship canals, much larger than those of Canada.

The cost of all these works may exceed $100,000,000, but the admirable financial system of
Mr. Secretary Chase, would soon supply abundant means for their construction. Already the price
of gold has fallen largely, our legal tenders are being funded, by millions, in the Secretary's
favorite 5-20 sixes, and we shall soon have, under his system, a sound, uniform national currency,
binding every State and citizen to the Union, and fraught ultimately with advantages to the
nation, equal to the whole expense of the war.

In passing down the Susquehanna canal, at Middletown, commences the canal which, by way of
Reading and the Schuylkill, connects Philadelphia with the Susquehanna and the lakes. Most
of this work is already six feet deep, but the whole route, if practicable, should be enlarged
to the dimensions of the Erie canal.

I have met in the British Museum some documents showing the original project (absurdly abandoned)
for a large canal from the Schuylkill to the Susquehanna. A slight change will restore this
work, and give to Philadelphia a complete seven-foot canal, via the Schuylkill and Susquehanna
to the lakes, as short as from New York, and through a richer country, both mineral and agricultural.
It appears that Washington and Franklin both favored this route.

1. Gunboats, and large commercial steamers, could then pass, without interruption, through
all the lakes, to the St. Lawrence, the Hudson, the Delaware, Susquehanna, Chesapeake Bay,
Albemarle Sound, the Ohio, and Mississippi.

2. In case of war, foreign or domestic, the saving to the Government in prices of articles
they must buy, and in transportation of men, munitions of war, supplies, and coal, would be
enormous. It is believed that the excess of cost in prices and transportation during this rebellion,
occasioned by the want of these works, WOULD MORE THAN PAY FOR THEIR CONSTRUCTION. Nor is this
the only loss, but victories no doubt have often been turned into defeats, for the want of
proper facilities for the movement of gunboats, of supplies, and munitions, and the rapid concentration
of troops and reënforcements.

3. The ability to obtain supplies, and coals, and vessels, from so many points, and especially
gunboats, where the coal, iron, and fluxes are in justaposition, would hasten construction,
and cheapen prices to the Government.

The enormous naval and military power, gained by such works, would tend greatly to prevent
wars, foreign or domestic; or, if they did occur, would enable us to conduct them with more
economy and success. It is said such vessels can be built on the lakes, and so they can, for
lake defence, but they would be liable to capture or destruction there, before completed, by
the enemy, and iron vessels, and iron-clads, could not be constructed so cheaply, where there
is neither coal nor iron, as in regions like the Delaware, Susquehanna, Alleghany, and Ohio,
where these great articles abound, and can be used on the spot, with so much economy.

It must be remembered, also, that, if these iron steamers and iron-clads are constructed on
the seaboard or the lakes, still, the iron and coal for building them, and the coal for running
them, could be supplied much more cheaply, if these enlarged canals were finished. Besides,
events are now occurring, and may again, in our history, requiring the immediate construction
of hundreds of iron vessels, rams, iron-clads, and mortar boats, calling for all the works
on the seaboard, the lakes, the Western rivers, and enlarged canals, to furnish, in time, the
requisite number. Rapid concentration of forces, naval and military, and prompt movements,
are among the greatest elements of success in war. It will be conceded, that the ability to
run gunboats, iron-clads, rams, and mortar boats, through all our lakes, to and from them to
all our great rivers, and to connect from both, through such enlarged canals, with the seaboard,
and the Gulf, would vastly increase our naval and military power.

Is it not clear, then, that if such a movement, with such resources and communications, had
been made, in sufficient force, the first year of the war, so as to seize, or effectully blockade,
all the rebel ports, to occupy, by an upward and downward movement, the whole Mississippi and
all its tributaries, isolating and cutting rebeldom in two, and thus preventing supplies from
Texas, Louisiana, and Arkansas, that the contest must have been closed long ere this, and thus
saved five or six times the cost of these works. As indicating the consequence of our occupation
and command of the Mississippi and the Gulf, let us see its effect on the supply of the single
indispensable article of beef to the rebel army and people.

By the census of 1860, table 36, the number of cattle that year in the loyal States was 7,674,000;
in Texas alone, 2,733,267; in Louisiana, 329,855; and in Arkansas, 318,355;--in those parts
of the rebel States east of the Mississippi, not commanded by our troops and gunboats, 2,558,000,
and in the parts of those States thus commanded by us, 1,087,000. Thus it will be seen, that
the cattle in Texas alone (whence the rebels, heretofore, have derived their main supplies),
raised on their boundless prairies, and rich perennial grass, have largely exceeded all the
cattle in those parts of the rebel States east of the Mississippi, commanded by them. But that
commanded by us, of the Mississippi and its tributaries, and the Gulf, as is now the case,
cuts off the above supplies from Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas, west and north Mississippi, north
Alabama, and west and middle Tennessee. Hence the cries of starvation from the South; hence,
mainly, the rise there in the price of beef, from a few cents to a dollar a pound. Controlled,
as the Gulf and Mississippi and its tributaries now are by us, so as to prevent any Western
supplies of beef, and the desolation and inundation which have swept over so much of the rest
of rebeldom since 1860, their army and people cannot be supplied with beef throughout this
year. Nor would running the blockade help them in this respect, for Europe has no supplies
of beef to spare, requiring large amounts from us every year. The revolt, then, is doomed this
year by starvation, if not, as we believe, by victories. Indeed, I imagine, if our Secretaries
of War and of the Navy were called on for official reports, they could clearly show, that with
ample appropriations in July, 1861, and all these works then completed, they could have crushed
the revolt in the fall of 1861 and winter of 1862. All, then, that has been expended since
of blood and treasure, and all the risks to which the Union may have been exposed, result from
the want of these works. Surely, these are momentous considerations, appealing, with irresistible
force, to the heart and judgment of every true American statesman, and patriot.

Great, however, as are the advantages in war to be derived from the construction of these works,
it is still more in peace, and as arteries of trade, that the benefit would be greatest. If
iron steamers are to control the commerce of the world, the cheap construction and running
of such vessels may decide this great question in our favor. Now, whether these steamers are
to be built on the seaboard or interior, the coal, and iron, and timber, with which to make
them, and the coal and supplies with which to run them, could be furnished much more cheaply
by these enlarged canals. And even if the vessels be of timber, the engines, boilers, anchors,
&c., must be of iron, and they must be run with coal, all which would be furnished cheaper
at our lakes and seaboard, by these enlarged canals. Nor is it only for the construction of
engines and boilers for steamers, or coal to run them, that these works would be important,
but the cheapening of transportation of coal, iron, timber, and supplies would be greatly beneficial
in all industrial pursuits. It is, however, in cheapening the transportation of our immense
agricultural products to the East, South, seaboard, and the return cargoes, that these works
would confer the greatest benefits. The value of the freight transported on these canals, last
year, was over $500,000,000; but, when all should be enlarged, as herein proposed, the value
of their freight, in a few years, would exceed SEVERAL BILLIONS OF DOLLARS. They would draw
from a vastly extended area, from augmented population and products, and with greater celerity
and economy of movements, from the increased distances that freight could be carried, and additional
articles. With these improvements, millions of bales of cotton would be carried annually on
these enlarged canals. All of Missouri, Iowa, Kentucky, Minnesota, Kansas, and the Northwestern
Territories, up the Missouri and its tributaries, with large portions of Tennessee, Alabama,
Arkansas, Louisiana, and even of Texas, on the Red river, would be added to the region from
which supplies would be sent, and return cargoes proceed by these works. Our exports abroad
would soon reach a BILLION of dollars, of which at least one third would consist of breadstuffs
and provisions. Corn was consumed, last year, in some of the Western States, as fuel, in consequence
of high freights. But this could never recur with these enlarged canals. Indeed, the products
to be carried on these canals would include the whole valley of the lakes, the Ohio, Mississippi,
and Missouri; and many articles, thus reaching there, thence be carried, on our great imperial
railway, to the Pacific, bringing back return cargoes for the same routes. Breadstuffs and
provisions and cotton would be carried more cheaply through these canals to the manufacturing
States, and their fabrics return, the same way, in vastly augmented amounts, to the West.

Last year, even during a war, breadstuffs and provisions, reaching $109,676,875 in value, were
exported abroad, from the loyal States alone; but, with these enlarged canals, the amount could
be more than tripled, the augmented exports bringing in increased imports, and vast additional
revenue. Can we not realize the certainty of these great results, and have we not the energy
and patriotism to insure their accomplishment? Assuredly we have.

Nor is it only our revenue from duties that would be increased to an extent sufficient of itself,
in a few years, to pay the principal and interest of the debt incurred in the construction
of these works, but our internal revenue, also, would be prodigiously augmented.

The census of 1860 shows our increase of wealth, from 1850 to 1860, to have been 126.45 per
cent. (Table 35). The same percentage, then, of our present internal tax, on this augmented
wealth, estimated at only one per cent., would be $16,000,000 (annually) in 1870, and $36,000,000
(annually) in 1880, and constantly increasing. Add this to the great increase of our revenue
from duties, as the result of these works, and the addition would not only soon liquidate their
cost, but yield a sum which, in a few years, would pay the principal and interest of our public
debt.

With such works, we would certainly soon be the first military, naval, and commercial power
of the world. The West, with these reduced freights, would secure immense additional markets
for her products, and the East send a much larger amount of manufactures, in return cargoes,
to the West.

A new and great impulse would be given to the coal and iron interest. If the Delaware, Susquehanna,
and their tributaries, and the Ohio and its tributaries, especially the Youghiogheny, Monongahela,
and Alleghany had the benefit of low freight, afforded by these canals, they could supply not
only the seaboard at reduced rates, but also central and western New York, the Canadas, and
the whole lake region, with coal and iron. Indeed, the increased demand, thus caused for these
great articles, would soon bring our make of iron, and consumption of coal, up to that of England,
and ultimately much larger. Freight is a much greater element in the cost of coal and iron,
than of agricultural products, but the increased exchange would be mutually advantageous.

With this system completed, the Mississippi might communicate by large steamers with all the
lakes, and eastward, by the enlarged canals, to Chicago or Green Bay, or pass up the Ohio,
by the Wabash or from Lawrenceburg or Cincinnati to Toledo, or by Portsmouth or Bridgeport
to Cleveland or by Bridgeport to Erie city, or by Pittsburg, up the Alleghany, to Olean and
Rochester, on the Erie canal, or by ship canal, from Buffalo to Ontario, thence, by the St.
Lawrence, to Lake Champlain and the Hudson, or by Oswego to Syracuse, or by the Erie canal
from Buffalo to the Hudson, or by the Chenango or Chemung route, down the Susquehanna, to Philadelphia,
or Baltimore, or down the Chesapeake to Norfolk, and on through Albemarle Sound south. Or,
going from the East, or South, westward by these routes, the steamer could proceed west, and
up the Missouri, to the points where they would meet the great railway leading to the Pacific.
Indeed, if we do our duty now, the next generation may carry similar canals from the head of
Lake Superior to the Mississippi and Missouri, and up the Kansas or Platte to the gold mines
of Colorado, or, from the great falls of the Missouri, to the base of the Rocky mountains,
with railroad connection thence to the mouth of the Oregon and Puget's sound. There would be
connected with this system, the lakes, and all the Eastern waters, the Ohio and all its tributaries,
including the Youghiogheny, Monongahela, Alleghany, Kanawa, Guyandotte, Big Sandy, Muskingum,
Scioto, Miami, Wabash, Licking, Kentucky, Green river, Barren, Cumberland, and Tennessee, the
upper Mississippi and its tributaries, especially the Illinois and Wisconsin, the Desmoines
and St. Peter's, the lower Mississippi and all its vast tributaries, the St. Francis, White
river, Arkansas, Red river, and Yazoo. These are no dreams of an enthusiast, but advancing
realities, if now, now we will only do our duty in crushing this rebellion, and exorcise the
foul fiend of slavery, that called it into being. We may best judge of what we may do in the
future, by what we have done in the past. We have constructed 4,650 miles of canals (including
slackwater), at a cost of $132,000,000. We have constructed (including city roads) 31,898 miles
of railroad, at a cost of $1,203,285,569, making an aggregate, for railroads and canals, of
$1,335,285,569. Now, one tenth of this sum will probably make all the works proposed now to
be executed, for they are all only enlargements of existing canals, except the ship canal round
the falls of Niagara, and a similar canal from Lake Champlain to the St. Lawrence, a work of
vast importance, but that can only be accomplished with the aid and consent of Canada, and
is not now estimated.

These improvements would be truly national, especially as provision would be made for deepening
the mouth of the Mississippi. We propose to make or enlarge no mere local works, but only such
as connect the Atlantic and the Gulf with the lakes, Ohio, Mississippi, Missouri, Hudson, Delaware,
Susquehanna, Chesapeake bay, and Albemarle sound. There local routes must be constructed or
enlarged by local or State expenditures.

The canals in New York, constituting so large a portion of the system, have already (mostly)
the requisite width and depth, and only need an enlargement of the locks. The great Delaware
and Raritan canal, connecting New York with Philadelphia, has a depth of 8 feet, and the Delaware
and Chesapeake, uniting them with the Susquehanna and the lakes, Baltimore, Norfolk, and Albemarle
sound, has a depth of ten feet. No doubt the enlightened proprietors of the Delaware and Raritan
canal would, on fair terms to themselves and the Government, enlarge that canal (if practicable)
to the depth of the Delaware and Chesapeake, which would be of incalculable benefit to the
whole country, but especially to New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, and Norfolk.

The Pennsylvania canals proposed to be enlarged are the Schuylkill, leading by the Union from
Philadelphia, through Reading to Middleton on the Susquehanna, and thence up that river to
the Erie and the lakes. The Schuylkill canal, 70 miles to Reading, has a depth of 6 feet, and
from Reading to Middleton, 4 feet. The Susquehanna canal, from Havre de Grace, Maryland, at
the head of tidewater, and the Chesapeake bay to the New York line, and system, has a uniform
depth of 5 feet, and is about 300 miles long. This canal, leading through Maryland and Pennsylvania
along the Susquehanna, can readily and cheaply be enlarged to the dimensions of the Erie canal,
and will then furnish Norfolk, Baltimore, and Philadelphia a direct route to the lakes by the
enlarged system, fully equal to that of New York. Western Pennsylvania and Pittsburg would
have the route, by the enlarged system, up the Alleghany and Olean to Rochester on the Erie
canal, and thence to the Hudson or the lakes, and from Bridgeport to Cleveland or Erie city.
Ohio would have the benefit of the routes (enlarged) to and from Cleveland to Bridgeport or
Portsmouth on the Ohio, and to and from Toledo to the mouth of the Wabash or Miami or to Cincinnati.
These canals are 40 feet wide and 4 feet deep. Indiana would have the benefit of the Wabash
and Erie canal to Evansville, on the Ohio, from Toledo, and to and from the same point to the
mouth of the Miami at Lawrenceburg and to Cincinnati, and would also largely participate in
the benefit of the Chicago and Illinois canal of the whole system. Wisconsin would have the
benefit of all these canals, but especially of that connecting the Wisconsin river with Green
Bay, and the rest of the lakes with Lake Superior. Illinois would have the benefit of the Wabash
and Erie, the Chicago and Illinois, and of the entire system. Indeed, with a thorough-cut canal
from the Illinois river to Chicago, fact will outstrip fancy as regards the progress of that
great city. And here a strong argument in favor of the whole of these works is presented to
every true American, by the fact that the vast and increasing heavy and bulky products of the
West demand the enlarged works, and if she cannot have them by the Hudson, the Delaware, and
Susquehanna, she will have them by the Canada canals, and the St. Lawrence to its outlet in
the Gulf. Minnesota would have the benefit of the improvement of the upper Mississippi, and
of the canals uniting the Wisconsin with Green Bay, and Superior with the other lakes. Iowa,
Missouri, Kansas, and the whole Western Territories would have the benefit of the improvement
of the Mississippi, of the routes by Chicago, Green Bay, the Ohio, and the whole system. The
glorious new free State of Western Virginia would have the benefit of all the routes up and
down the Ohio and Mississippi to the lakes, the Hudson, Delaware, Susquehanna, and the Gulf.
So would Kentucky, and the enlargement of the Louisville canal would be within her own limits.
When we reflect that Kentucky borders for nearly a thousand miles on the Ohio and Mississippi,
with her streams, the Big Sandy, Licking, Kentucky, Green river, and Barren (which last four
have 766 miles of slackwater navigation), Cumberland, and Tennessee, all tributaries of the
Ohio, the benefits to her would be prodigious. The interest of the States of Tennessee, Arkansas,
Mississippi, Louisiana, North Alabama, on the Tennessee river, and Texas, on the Red river,
would be greatly promoted. They would all have improved routes to and from the mouth of the
Mississippi, and to and from the Ohio, the lakes, and the Atlantic. Eastern Virginia and North
Carolina would derive great advantages by the enlarged routes, connecting Albemarle sound and
the Chesapeake with New York, Philadelphia, the Hudson, the Delaware, the Susquehanna, and
the lakes. Delaware and Maryland could avail themselves most beneficially of all these routes,
and Baltimore would derive immense advantages from the enlarged route by the Susquehanna to
the lakes, having then as good a route there as New York, and the difference of distance being
only 30 miles. New Jersey, by her route from the Delaware and Raritan to the Hudson, and by
her rising cities near or opposite Philadelphia and New York, and by the enlarged system to
the lakes, would find all her interests greatly advanced, and the business on her canals and
railroads vastly increased. Michigan, with a larger lake shore than any other State, fronting
on Lakes Superior, Michigan, Huron, St. Clair, the connecting straits and rivers, and Lake
Erie, would derive immense advantages. By her immediate connection with the whole New York
and Eastern system, and by Toledo, Cleveland or Erie city, to the Ohio river, and by the Chicago
or Green Bay routes to the Mississippi and the Gulf, her vast agricultural products in the
peninsula would find new and augmented markets; while, with the ship canal to Lake Superior,
her magnificent iron and copper mines on that immense inland sea, as well as those in Wisconsin,
and the splendid pineries and fisheries of both States, would receive an immense development.
Pennsylvania has no large available through route now from the Delaware and Susquehanna to
the lakes, nor from Pittsburg. The proposed system would give her those routes, as well from
the East as from the West. This would give to her coal and iron, her vast agricultural products,
her immense manufactures, and all her industrial pursuits a new impulse, while her two great
cities, Philadelphia and Pittsburg, would be greatly advanced in wealth and population. When
we reflect that coal and iron have mainly contributed to make England what she is, and how
superior, in this respect, are the natural advantages of Pennsylvania with her bituminous and
anthracite coal and iron and fluxes in juxtaposition, with a continent surrounding her to furnish
a market, with her central location, fronting on the deep tidewater of the Delaware, and upon
the lakes and the Ohio, with its two great confluents at Pittsburg, the Alleghany and Monongahela,
we cannot fully realize the immense advantages which she would derive from these enlarged communications.
But what of New York? With all her routes, as well as that of the Erie canal, enlarged as proposed,
with her mighty system extending to the lakes and St. Lawrence, from Lake Champlain to Superior,
south by the Delaware and Susquehanna, west by the Alleghany, Ohio, Missouri, and Mississippi,
and her great city with an unrivalled location, what an imperial destiny lies before her, with
the Union preserved? Oh! if she would only fully realize these great truths, and spurn from
her embrace the wretched traitors who, while falsely professing peace, mean the degradation
of the North and the dissolution of this Union, who can assign limits to her wealth and commerce?

Let us now examine the relations of New England to these proposed works. Vermont, upon Lake
Champlain, by the enlarged system, connecting her with the Hudson, the St. Lawrence, and the
lakes, would be greatly advanced in wealth and population. But with cheapened transportation
to and from Lake Champlain or the Hudson, not only Vermont, but all New England, in receiving
her coal and iron, and her supplies from the West, and in sending them her manufactures, will
enjoy great advantages, and the business of her railroads be vastly increased. So, also, New
England, on the Sound, and, in fact, the whole seaboard and all its cities. Bridgeport, New
Haven, New London, Providence, Fall River, New Bedford, Boston, Portland, Bangor, Belfast,
and Eastport will all transact an immense increased business with New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore,
and the West. As the greatest American consumer of Western breadstuffs and provisions, and
of our iron and coal, and the principal seat of domestic manufactures, the augmented reciprocal
trade of New England with the South and West will be enormous. Her shipping and shipbuilding
interests, her cotton, woollen, worsted, and textile fabrics, her machinery, engines, and agricultural
implements, boots and shoes, hats and caps, her cabinet furniture, musical instruments, paper,
clothing, fisheries, soap, candles, and chandlery, in which she has excelled since the days
of Franklin, and, in fact, all her industrial pursuits, will be greatly benefited. The products
of New England in 1860, exclusive of agriculture and the earnings of commerce, were of the
value of $494,075,498. But, in a few years after the completion of these works, this amount
will be doubled. Such is the skilled and educated industry of New England, and such the inventive
genius of her people, that there is no limit to her products, except markets and consumers.
As New York increases, the swelling tide of the great city will flow over to a vast extent
into the adjacent shores of Connecticut and New Jersey, and Hoboken, West Hoboken, Weehawken,
Hudson City, Jersey City, and Newark will meet in one vast metropolis. Philadelphia will also
flow over in the same way into Camden and adjacent portions of New Jersey, whose farms already
greatly exceed in value those of any other State. The farms of New Jersey in 1860 were of the
average value of $60.38 per acre, while those of South Carolina, the great leader of the rebellion,
with all her boasted cotton, rice, and tobacco, and her 402,406 slaves, were then of the average
value of $8.61 per acre. (Census Table 36.) And yet there are those in New Jersey who would
drag her into the rebel confederacy, cover her with the dismal pall of slavery, and who cry
Peace! peace! when there is no peace, except in crushing this wicked rebellion. The States
of the Pacific, as the enlarged canals reached the Mississippi and Missouri, and ultimately
the base of the Rocky mountains, would be greatly advanced in all their interests. Agricultural
products and other bulky and heavy articles that could not bear transportation all the way
by the great Pacific railroad, could be carried by such enlarged canals to the Mississippi
and Missouri, and ultimately to the base of the Rocky mountains, and thence, by railroad, a
comparatively short distance to the Pacific, and westward to China and Japan. In order to make
New York and San Francisco great depots of interoceanic commerce for America, Europe, Asia,
and the world, these enlarged canals, navigated by large steamers, and ultimately toll free,
are indispensable.

We have named, then, all the Territories, and all the thirty-five States, except three, as
deriving great and special advantages from this system. These three are Georgia, South Carolina,
and Florida, with a white population, in 1860, of 843,338. These States, however, would not
only participate in the increased prosperity of the whole country, and in augmented markets
for their cotton, rice, sugar, tobacco, and timber, and in cheaper supplies of Eastern manufactures,
coal, iron, and Western products, but they would derive, also, special advantages. They have
a large trade with New Orleans, which they would reach more cheaply by deepening the mouth
of the Mississippi. They could pass up Albemarle sound, by the interior route, to Baltimore,
Philadelphia, New York, or the West, and take back return cargoes by the same route. Georgia,
also, by her location on the Tennessee river, together with South Carolina, connected with
that river at Chattanooga, would derive great benefits from this connection with the enlarged
canals and improved navigation of the West, sending their own and receiving Western products
more cheaply.

Thus, every State and every Territory in the Union would be advanced in all their interests
by these great weeks, and lands, farms, factories, town and city property, all be improved
in value.

But there is another topic, connected with this subject, of vast importance, particularly at
this juncture, to which I must now refer. It is our public lands, the homestead bill, and immigration.
These lands embrace every variety of soil, products, and climate, from that of St. Petersburg
to the tropics.

As this domain is extended over fifteen States and all the Territories, the completion of these
enlarged canals, embracing so large a portion of them, would be most advantageous to all, and
the inducement to immigration would greatly increase, and immigration must soon flow in from
Europe in an augmented volume. Indeed, when these facts are generally known in Europe, the
desire of small renters, and of the working classes, to own a farm, and cultivate their own
lands here, must bring thousands to our shores, even during the war. But it will be mainly
when the rebellion shall have been crushed, the power of the Government vindicated, its authority
fully reëstablished, and slavery extinguished, so as to make labor honorable everywhere throughout
our country, and freedom universal, that this immigration will surge upon our shores. When
we shall have maintained the Union unbroken against foreign and domestic enemies, and proved
that a republic is as powerful in war as it is benign in peace, and especially that the people
will rush to the ranks to crush even the most gigantic rebellion, and that they will not only
bear arms, but taxes, for such a purpose, the prophets of evil, who have so often proclaimed
our Government an organised anarchy, will lose their power to delude the people of Europe.
And when that people learn the truth, and the vast privileges offered them by the Homestead
Bill, there will be an exodus from Europe to our country, unprecedented since the discovery
of America. The wounds inflicted by the war will then soon be healed, and European immigrants,
cultivating here their own farms, and truly loyal to this free and paternal Government, from
which they will have received this precious gift of a farm for each, will take the place of
the rebels, who shall have fled the country. We have seen that the total cost of our railroads
and canals, up to this date, was $1,335,285,569, and I have estimated the probable cost of
these enlarged works as not exceeding one tenth of this sum, or $133,528,556. Let us now examine
that question. We have seen that our 4,650 miles of canals cost $132,000,000, being $28,387
per mile, or less, by $8,395 per mile, than our railroads. It will be recollected that a large
number of miles of these canals have already the requisite depth of seven feet, and width of
seventy, and need only an enlargement of their locks. It appears, however, by the returns,
that the Erie canal, the Grand Junction, Champlain canal, and the Black River, Chemung, Chenango,
and Oswego, in all 528 miles, are all seven feet deep, and seventy feet wide, and cost $83,494
per mile, while the average cost of all our canals, varying from forty to seventy-five feet
in width, and from four to ten in depth, was $28,387 per mile. Assuming $28,000 per mile as
the average cost of the canals requiring enlargement, and $83,000 that of those per mile having
already the requisite dimensions, the difference would be $55,000 per mile, as the average
cost of those needing increased dimensions.

The estimated cost, then, would stand as follows:

  598 miles New York canals,
  enlargement of locks        $5,980,000

  Enlarging dimensions, etc.,
  of 1,696 miles, at $55,000
  per mile                    93,280,000
                             -----------

                    Total,   $99,260,000

The conjectural estimate heretofore made by me was $133,528,556, or one tenth the cost of our
existing railroads and canals, and exceeding, by $1,528,556, the cost of all our present 4,650
miles of canal. Deduct this from the above $133,528,556, leaves $34,268,556, to be applied
to improving the St. Clair flats, the Mississippi river, deepening its mouth, and for the ship
canal round the Falls of Niagara.

No estimate is now presented of the cost of the canal from Lake Champlain to the St. Lawrence,
because that requires the coöperation of Canada.

The railroads of our country would increase their business, with our augmented wealth and population,
especially in the transportation of passengers and merchandise. They would also obtain iron
cheaper for rails, boilers, and engines, timber for cars, breadstuffs and provisions for supplies,
and coal or wood for their locomotives.

Great, however, as would be the effect of these works in augmenting our commerce, wealth, and
population, their results in consolidating and perpetuating our Union would be still more important.
When the Ohio, Mississippi, and Missouri, and all their tributaries, arterializing the great
valley, shall be united by the proposed routes with the lakes, the St. Lawrence, the Hudson,
Delaware, Susquehanna, Chesapeake, and Albemarle, what sacrilegious hand could be raised against
such a Union? We should have no more rebellions. We should hear no more of North, South, East,
and West, for all would be linked together by a unity of commerce and interests. Our Union
would become a social, moral, geographical, political, and commercial necessity, and no State
would risk by secession the benefit of participating in its commerce. We should be a homogeneous
people, and slavery would disappear before the march of civilization, and of free schools,
free labor, free soil, free lakes, rivers, and canals. It is the absence of such a system (aided
by slavery), drawing the West and Southwest, by a supposed superior attraction, to the Gulf,
that has led the Southwest into this rebellion. But with slavery extinguished, with freedom
strengthening labor's hand, with education elevating the soul and enlightening the understanding,
and with such communications uniting all our great lakes and rivers, East and West, all crowned
with nourishing towns and mighty cities, with cultured fields and smiling harvests, exchanging
their own products and fabrics, and those of the world, by flying cars and rushing steamers,
revolt or disunion would be impossible. Strike down every barrier that separates the business
of the North and East from that of the South and West, and you render dissolution impossible.
In commerce, we would be a unit, drawing to us, by the irresistible attraction of interest,
intercourse, and trade, the whole valley of the lakes and St. Lawrence. Whom God had united
by geography, by race, by language, commerce, and interest, political institutions could not
long keep asunder. Of all foreign nations, those which would derive the greatest advantages
from such an union would be England and France, the two governments which a wicked pro-slavery
rebellion invites to attempt our destruction. With such a commerce, and with slavery extinguished,
we would have the Union, not as it was, but as our fathers intended it should be, when they
founded this great and free republic. We should soon attain the highest civilization, and enjoy
the greatest happiness of which our race is capable. So long as slavery existed here, and we
were divided into States cherishing, and States abhorring the institution, so long as free
and forced labor were thus antagonized, we could scarcely be said to have a real Union, or
to exist truly as a nation. Slavery loomed up like a black mountain, dividing us. Slavery kept
us always on the verge of civil war, with hostility to liberty, education, and progress, and
menacing for half a century the life of the republic. The question then was not, Will any measure,
or any construction of the constitution, benefit the nation? but, Will it weaken or strengthen
slavery? All that was good, or great, or national, was opposed by slavery--science, literature,
the improvement of rivers and harbors, homesteads for the West, defences and navies for the
East. American ocean steamers were sacrificed to foreign subsidies, and all aid was refused
to canals or railroads, including that to the Pacific, although essential to the national unity.
Slavery was attempted to be forced on Kansas, first by violence and invasion, and then by fraud,
and the forgery of a constitution. Defeated in Kansas by the voice of the people, slavery then
took the question from the people, and promulgated its last platform in 1860, by which all
the Territories, nearly equal in area to the States, were to be subjected forever as Territories
to slavery, although opposed by the overwhelming voice of their people. Slavery was nationalized,
and freedom limited and circumscribed with the evident intent soon to strangle it in all the
States, and spread forced labor over the continent, from the North to Cape Horn. Failing in
the election, slavery then assailed the vital principle of the republic, the rule of the majority,
and inaugurated the rebellion. Slavery kept perjured traitors for months in the cabinet and
the two Houses of Congress, to aid in the overthrow of the Government. Then was formed a constitution
avowedly based on slavery, setting it up as an idol to be worshipped, and upon whose barbaric
altars is now being poured out the sacrificial blood of freemen. But it will fail, for the
curse of God and man is upon it. And when the rebellion is crushed, and slavery extinguished,
we shall emerge from this contest strengthened, purified, exalted. We shall march to the step
and music of a redeemed humanity, and a regenerated Union. We shall feel a new inspiration,
and breathe an air in which slavery and every form of oppression must perish.

Standing upon these friendly shores, in a land which abolished slavery in the twelfth century,
and surrounded by a people devoted to our welfare, looking westward, along the path of empire,
across the Atlantic, to my own beloved country, these are my views of her glorious destiny,
when the twin hydras of slavery and rebellion are crushed forever.

If our Irish adopted citizens could only hear, as I now do, the condemnation of slavery and
of this revolt, by the Irish people; if they could hear them, as I do, quote the electric words
of their renowned Curran against slavery, and in favor of universal emancipation; if they could
listen, as they repeated the still bolder and scathing denunciations of their great orator,
O'Connell, as he trampled on the dehumanizing system of chattel slavery, they would scorn the
advice of the traitor leaders, who, under the false guise of Democracy, but in hostility to
all its principles, would now lure them, by the syren cry of peace, into the destruction of
the Union, which guards their rights, and protects their interests.

The convention now assembled at Chicago, can do much to inaugurate a new era of civilization,
freedom, and progress, by aiding in giving to the nation these great interior routes of commerce
and intercourse, in the centre of which your great city will hold the urn, as the long-divorced
waters of the lakes and the Mississippi are again commingled, and the Union linked together
by the imperishable bonds of commerce, interest, and affection.

WOMAN.

The ever-present phenomenon of revolution bears two forms. They may be discrete or concrete,
but they are two--ideas, movement,--cause, result--force, effect. And progressive humanity
marches upon its future with ideas for its centre, movement its right and left wings. Not a
step is taken till the Great Field-Marshal has sent his orders along the lines.

