Railways, too, exhibit signs of progress. The gross proceeds of the traffic for the first seven
months of 1851 amounted to L.8,254,303, while for the same portion of the present year the
sum is L.8,504,002; a result the more striking when it is remembered that last year we had
the Exhibition. The new lines opened in 1851 comprised not more than 269 miles--the smallest
amount in any year since 1848--so that, at the end of December, we had 6890 miles of railway
actually opened, and 5101 miles authorised and still to be made. It is clear that the greater
portion of the latter will never be attempted, seeing that people have really found out that
railways are not exempt from the operation of the great natural laws of supply and demand.
Some of the facts of last year's traffic are astounding: the total number of passengers conveyed
was 85,391,095--twelve millions more than in the preceding year; and the aggregate returns
amounted to L.14,997,459. What a difference when compared with the sum paid for travel and
transport twenty years ago! In the United States, the number of miles of railway actually open
is 13,200, which, by the end of 1855, it is expected will be increased to 18,000 or 20,000.
There are 27,000 miles of electric telegraphs, but in this estimate the five or six lines between
any two places are all counted. On one of the lines from New York to Washington, 253,857 messages
were sent in the year ending last July, the toll for which amounted to 103,232 dollars--over
L.20,000.

Notwithstanding all this material development, in some respects there is no advance--except
it be of fares, which on some lines running out of London have been increased in accordance
with 'arrangements' between companies who seem desirous of substituting wholesale monopoly
for wholesome competition. Murmurs on every side already attest the effects of such a change
of system, and it is to be hoped that imperative means will be found of insuring more attention
than at present to the comfort and safety of passengers. No one out of the position of a director
or shareholder can see any good reason why English railway carriages should be less comfortably
fitted up than those of the continent. How is it that second-class carriages are to be seen
abroad with stuffed seats and padded backs, and never in England? It cannot be that we do not
pay enough for the accommodation. We pay too much--a fact worth remembering with railway amalgamation
looming in the future; an event which must not take place without the public coming in demonstrably
as third party.

The British Association have met, and gone through their usual routine of business, with what
results--beyond the reports in the public prints--will be best shewn by the movement of science
for the next few months. It is always something that knowledge is increased; but whether the
accumulating of fact on fact, to the neglect of generalising those facts, be the true means
thereunto, remains to be proved. Science has been soaring in search of facts; for the committee
appointed to manage the Kew Observatory, thinking that the phenomena of meteorology would answer
further questioning, have sent up a balloon, with instruments and observers, to make a series
of observations. The temperature was read off from highly sensitive thermometers at each minute
during the ascent, so as to ascertain the difference of the heat of successive strata of the
atmosphere, and the rate of variation. In the first flight, the party reached the height of
19,500 feet, and came to a temperature of 7 degrees, or 25 degrees below the freezing-point,
which, considering the state of the temperature at the surface, was an unexpected result--in
fact, an abnormal one; and not dissimilar to that which so much astonished our neighbours across
the Channel when Barral and Bixio went up. But if it be abnormal, as is said, it is remarkable
that precisely the same temperature was met with at about the same height on the second ascent.
Another object was, to bring down specimens of air from different altitudes, for analysis;
to try the effect of the actinometer at great elevations; and to note the hygrometric condition.
There are to be four ascents, so as, if possible, to obtain something like satisfactory data
by repetition; and in due time, detailed reports of the whole of the observations will be made
public.

As ozone is at present attracting attention, it might have been worth while to ascertain the
proportion of this constituent in the higher regions of the atmosphere. According to Messrs
Frémy and Becquerel, the term ozone ought to be abandoned; for, after a series of careful experiments,
they have come to the conclusion, that there is no real transformation of matter in the production
of ozone, but that it is nothing more than 'electrified oxygen,' or oxygen in a particular
state of chemical affinity. Further research will perhaps show us whether they or Schoenbein
are in the right. At all events, the inquiry is interesting, particularly at this time, when
cholera--to which ozone is antagonistic--is said to be again about to pay us a visit; and seeing
that the doctrine of non-contagion, put forth so authoritatively by our General Board of Health,
is disputed; and that a certain morbific influence can be conveyed and imparted, is shewn by
abundant evidence to be alike probable and possible. What took place lately in Poland is cited
as a case in point. Excavations were being made at Lask, near Kalisch, which laid open the
cemetery where the bodies of those who died of cholera in 1832 had been buried. All who were
engaged in the work died, and the disease spread fatally throughout the neighbourhood. What
an important question here remains to be settled! and how is it to be settled while people
are unclean and towns undrained?

