Another caveat may properly be interposed as regards searches for information in that most
widely advertised and circulated of all works of reference,--the Encyclopaedia Britannica.
The plan of that work was to furnish the reading public with the very best treatises upon leading
topics in science, history, and literature, by eminent scholars and specialists in various
fields. Pursuant to this general scheme, each great subject has a most elaborate, and sometimes
almost exhaustive article--as, for example, chemistry, geology, etc., while the minor divisions
of each topic do not appear in the alphabet at all, or appear only by cross-reference to the
generic name under which they are treated. It results, that while you find, for example, a
most extensive article upon "Anatomy", filling a large part of a volume of the Britannica,
you look in vain in the alphabet for such subjects as "blood, brain, cartilage, sinew, tissue,"
etc., which are described only in the article "Anatomy." This method has to be well comprehended
in order for any reader to make use of this great Cyclopaedia understandingly. Even by the
aid of the English index to the work, issued by its foreign publishers, the reader who is in
hasty quest of information in the Britannica, will most frequently be baffled by not finding
any minor subject in the index. The English nation, judged by most of the productions of its
literary and scientific men in that field, has small genius for indexing. It was reserved to
an American to prepare and print a thorough index, at once alphabetical and analytical, to
this great English thesaurus of information--an index ten times more copious, and therefore
more useful to the student, than the meagre one issued in England. This index fills 3,900 closely
printed columns, forming the whole of volume 25 of the Philadelphia edition of the work. By
its aid, every name and every topic, treated anywhere in this vast repository of human knowledge
can be traced out and appropriated; while without it, the Encyclopaedia Britannica, with all
its great merits, must remain very much in the nature of a sealed book to the reader who stands
in need of immediate use and reference. We have to take it for what it is--a collection of
masterly treatises, rather than a handy dictionary of knowledge.

The usefulness and success of any library will depend very largely upon the sympathy, so to
speak, between the readers and the librarian. When this is well established, the rest is very
easy. The librarian should not seclude himself so as to be practically inaccessible to readers,
nor trust wholly to assistants to answer their inquiries. This may be necessary in some large
libraries, where great and diversified interests connected with the building up of the collection,
the catalogue system, and the library management and administration are all concerned. In the
British Museum Library, no one ever sees the Principal Librarian; even the next officer, who
is called the keeper of the printed books, is not usually visible in the reading-room at all.

A librarian who is really desirous of doing the greatest good to the greatest number of people,
will be not only willing, but anxious to answer inquiries, even though they may appear to him
trivial and unimportant. Still, he should also economise time by cultivating the habit of putting
his answers into the fewest and plainest words.

How far the librarian should place himself in direct communication with readers, must depend
largely upon the extent of the library, the labor required in managing its various departments,
the amount and value of assistance at his command, and upon various other circumstances, depending
upon the different conditions with different librarians. But it may be laid down as a safe
general rule, that the librarian should hold himself perpetually as a public servant, ready
and anxious to answer in some way, all inquiries that may come to him. Thus, and thus only,
can he make himself, and the collection of books under his charge, useful in the highest degree
to the public. He will not indeed, in any extensive library, find it convenient, or even possible,
to answer all inquiries in person; but he should always be ready to enable his assistants to
answer them, by his superior knowledge as to the best sources of information, whenever they
fail to trace out what is wanted. In any small library, he should be always accessible, at
or near the place where people are accustomed to have their wants for books or information
supplied: and the public resorting to the library will thus come not only to rely upon him
for aid in their intellectual researches, but to appreciate and respect him for the wide extent
of his knowledge, and to consider him, in time, an indispensable guide, if not leader, in the
community. His reputation, in fact, will depend upon the extent to which he has been able to
help others, as well as upon the number of people whom he has thus aided.

In a very high sense, the true librarian is an educator; his school is as large as the town
in which his library is situated. Very few people in that town know what he is always presumed
to know,--namely--to what books to go to get answers to the questions they want answered. In
supplying continually the means of answering these countless questions, the library becomes
actually a popular university, in which the librarian is the professor, the tuition is free,
and the course is optional, both as to study and as to time.

Most persons who come to make any investigation in a public library require a good deal of
assistance. For example, a reader is in need of the latest information as to the amount of
steel and iron made in this country, and what State produces these important manufactures.
He has not the faintest idea where to look for the information, except that it may be in the
census, but the census is nine years old, and he wants recent facts. It is vain to turn him
over to the cyclopaedias, for there is not one whose information upon such statistics comes
anywhere near up to date. You have to put before him a pamphlet annual, published by the American
Iron and Steel Association, which contains exactly what he wants; and no other source of information
does contain it.

Another inquirer seeks to know how to treat some disease. In such cases, of course, the librarian
should not go farther than to put before the reader a work on domestic medicine, for it is
not his function to deal in recommendations of this, that, or the other method of treatment,
any more than it is to give legal opinions, if asked--although he may have studied law. So,
if the reader wants to know about the religious tenets of the Presbyterians, or the Mormons,
or the Buddhists, or the doctrines of the Catholic Church, and asks the librarian's opinion
about any controverted question of belief, he is to be answered only by the statement that
the library is there to supply information, not opinions, and then pointed to the religious
cyclopaedias, which give full summaries of all the sects.

He may frequently be asked for information on a subject which he knows nothing about; and I
have heard a librarian declare, that he often found himself able to give fuller and better
information on a subject of which he was previously ignorant, than upon one he had long been
familiar with. The reason was that in the one case he had freshly looked up all the authorities,
and put them before the reader, while in the other, giving the references from a memory, more
or less imperfect, he had overlooked some of the most important means of information.

The constant exercise of the habit of supplying helps to readers is a splendid intellectual
school for the librarian himself. Through it, his memory is quickened and consequently improved,
(as every faculty is by use) his habits of mental classification and analysis are formed or
strengthened, and his mind is kept on the alert to utilize the whole arsenal of the knowledge
he has already acquired, or to acquire new knowledge.

Another very important benefit derived by the librarian from his constantly recurring attention
to the calls of readers for aid, is the suggestion thereby furnished of the deficiencies in
the collection in his charge. This will be a continual reminder to him, of what he most needs,
namely, how to equip the library with the best and most recent sources of information in every
field of inquiry. Whether the library be a large or a small one, its deficiencies in some directions
are sure to be very considerable: and these gaps are more conspicuously revealed in trying
to supply readers with the means of making what may be termed an exhaustive research upon a
given subject, than in any other way. You find, for example, in looking up your authorities
in what has come to be called Egyptology, that while you have Wilkinson's Ancient Egypt, and
Lane's Modern Egyptians, both of which are very valuable works, you have not the more modern
books of Brugsch-Bey, or of A. H. Sayce, or of Maspero. You may also find out, by mingling
freely with a good part of the readers, what subjects are most frequently looked into or inquired
about, and you can thus secure valuable information as to the directions in which the library
most needs strengthening. Thus, in a community largely made up of people connected with manufacturing
interests, the inquiries are liable to be much concerned with the mechanic arts; and you would
therefore naturally seek to acquire a liberal selection of the best and latest works in technical
science, or the useful arts. If you have, on the other hand, very few inquiries, indeed, for
theological works, you take it as some evidence that that department of the collection needs
little enlargement, and you may devote your funds in other directions. Then too, the great
value of popularising the library by the hearty interest shown by the librarian in the wants
of the people can hardly be over-rated. This interest, being a perennial one, and continued
through a series of years, the number of citizens and their families assisted will be constantly
on the increase, and the public opinion of the town will come in time, to regard the library
as a great popular necessity. Hence, if it is an institution supported in whole or in part
by town or municipal funds, its claims to liberal consideration will be immeasurably strengthened.
If an enlargement of room for the books, or even a new library building comes to be needed,
its chances for securing the funds requisite will be excellent. If a more liberal supply of
new books, or an extended range of older ones of great value is reported by the librarian as
wanted to increase the usefulness of the library, the authorities will more cheerfully consider
the claim. And if it is proposed that additional and competent assistance shall be given to
the librarian, or that he should be more liberally compensated for his highly useful and important
labors, that, too, may be accomplished--especially if it has come to be recognized that by
his wide knowledge, and skilful management, and helpful devotion to the service of the reading
public, he has rendered himself indispensable.

In the supply of information desired by readers, it is better to leave them to their own search,
once you have put before them the proper authorities, than to spend your time in turning for
them to the volume and page. This, for two reasons--first, it leaves your own time free to
help other readers, or to attend to the ever-waiting library work; and, secondly, it induces
habits of research and self-help on the part of the reader. It is enough for the librarian
to act as an intelligent guide-post, to point the way; to travel the road is the business of
the reader himself. Therefore, let the visitor in quest of a quotation, look it out in the
index of the volumes you put before him. If he fails to find it, it will then be time for you
to intervene, and lend the aid of your more practiced eye, and superior knowledge of how to
search; or else, let the reader look for it in some more copious anthology, which you may put
before him. There are multitudes of inquiries for the authors of poems, which are in no sense
"familiar quotations," nor even select quotations, but which are merely common-place sentiments
expressed in language quite unpoetic,--and not the work of any notable writer at all. They
are either the production of some utterly obscure author of a volume of verse, quite unknown
to fame, or, still more probably, the half-remembered verses of some anonymous contributor
to the poet's corner of the newspaper or magazine. In such cases, where you see no poetic beauty
or imaginative power in the lines, it is well to inform the inquirer at once that you do not
think them the production of any noted writer, and thus end the fruitless search for memorizing
what is not at all memorable. What may strike uncultivated readers as beautiful, may be set
down as trash, by a mind that has been fed upon the masterpieces of poetry. Not that the librarian
is to assume the air of an oracle or a censor, (something to be in all circumstances avoided)
or to pronounce positive judgment upon what is submitted: he should inform any admiring reader
of a passage not referred to in any of the anthologies, and not possessing apparent poetic
merit, that he believes the author is unknown to fame. That should be sufficient for any reasonably
disposed reader, who, after search duly completed, will go away answered, if not satisfied.

I gave some instances of the singular variety of questions asked of a librarian. Let me add
one, reported by Mr. Robert Harrison, of the London Library, as asked of him by William M.
Thackeray. The distinguished author of Esmond and The Virginians wanted a book that would tell
of General Wolfe, the hero of Quebec. "I don't want to know about his battles", said the novelist.
"I can get all that from the histories. I want something that will tell me the color of the
breeches he wore." After due search, the librarian was obliged to confess that there was no
such book.

A librarian is likely to be constantly in a position to aid the uninformed reader how to use
the books of reference which every public library contains. The young person who is new to
the habit of investigation, or the adult who has never learned the method of finding things,
needs to be shown how to use even so simple a thing as an index. Do not be impatient with his
ignorance, although you may find him fumbling over the pages in the body of the book in vain,
to find what you, with your acquired knowledge of indexes and their use, can find in half a
minute or less. Practice alone can make one perfect in the art of search and speedy finding.
The tyro who tries your patience this year, will very likely become an expert reader the next.
Wide as is the domain of ignorance, there are few among those intelligent enough to resort
to a library at all, who cannot learn. You will find some who come to the library so unskilled,
that they will turn over the leaves even of an index, in a blind, hap-hazard way, evidently
at a loss how to use it. These must be instructed first, that the index is arranged just like
a dictionary, in the alphabetical order of the names or subjects treated, and secondly, that
after finding the word they seek in it, they must turn to the page indicated by the figure
attached to that word. This is the very primer of learning in the use of a library, but the
library in any town, used as it is by many boys and girls of all ages, has to be a primary
school for beginners, as well as a university for advanced students. Despise not the day of
small things, however you may find it more agreeable to be occupied with great ones.

On the other hand, you will find at the other extreme of intelligence, among your clientage
of readers, those who are completely familiar with books and their uses. There are some readers
frequenting public libraries, who not only do not need assistance themselves, but who are fully
competent to instruct the librarian. In meeting the calls of such skilled readers, who always
know what they require, it is never good policy to obtrude advice or suggestion, but simply
to supply what they call for. You will readily recognize and discriminate such experts from
the mass of readers, if you have good discernment. Sometimes they are quite as sensitive as
they are intelligent, and it may annoy them to have offered them books they do not want, in
the absence of what they require. An officious, or super-serviceable librarian or assistant,
may sometimes prejudice such a reader by proffering help which he does not want, instead of
waiting for his own call or occasion.

Let us look at a few examples of the numerous calls at a popular library. For example, a reader
asks to see a book, giving an account of the marriage of the Adriatic. You know that this concerns
the history of Venice and its Doges, and you turn to various books on Venice, and its history,
until you find a description of the strange festival. It may be, and probably is the case,
that the books, like most descriptive works and narratives of travellers, are without index.
This is a disability in the use of books which you must continually encounter, since multitudes
of volumes, old and new, are sent out without a vestige of an index to their contents. Some
writers have urged that a law should be made refusing copyright to the author of any book who
failed to provide it with an index; a requirement highly desirable, but also highly impracticable.
Yet you will find in most books, a division of the contents into chapters, and in the beginning
of the volume a table of the contents of each chapter, giving its leading topics. This is a
substitute for an index, although (not being arranged in alphabetical order) it is far less
useful than that time-saving aid to research. But you have to learn to take advantage of even
poor and inferior helps, when you cannot have the best, (as a poor guide is better than no
guide at all, unless it misguides,) and so you run your eye quickly through the table of contents
to find what you seek. In the case supposed, of the ceremony at Venice, you will be aided in
the search by having in mind that the catch-words involved are "Adriatic," and "Doge," and
as these begin with capital letters, which stand out, as it were, from the monotonous "lower
case" type (as printers call all the letters that are not capitals) your search will be much
abridged by omitting to read through all the sentences of your table of contents, and seizing
only the passage or passages where "Doge," or "Adriatic," may occur.

This remark will apply as well to numerous other searches which you will have to make in books.
The table of contents will commonly take note of all the more salient topics that are treated
in the book, whether of persons, of places, of notable scenes, historic events, etc., and so
will aid you in finding what you seek. In the last resort only, in the books whose table of
contents fails you, will you have to turn the leaves page by page, which, while not equivalent
to reading the book through, is a time-consuming business.

Of course no librarian can devote hours of his precious time to searches in such detail for
readers. They are to be supplied with the books likely to contain what they are in search of,
and left to seek it in their own way, with such hints and cautions as to saving time by taking
the shortest road, as the experience of the librarian enables him to supply. The suggestions
here given are not needed by scholarly readers, but are the fruits of long experience in searching
books for what they contain.

Again, let us take the case of a call by a reader who happens to be a decorative painter, for
patterns which may furnish him hints in finishing an interior of a house. Of course he wants
color--that is, not theory only, but illustration, or practical examples. So you put before
him Owen Jones's Grammar of Ornament, or Racinet's L'Ornement polychrome, both illustrated
with many beautiful designs in color, which he is delighted to find.

Another reader is anxious to see a picture of "St. George and the Dragon." If you have the
"Museum of Painting and Sculpture," in 17 volumes, or Champlin's "Cyclopaedia of Painters and
Painting," a dictionary of art in four volumes, you find it in either work, in the alphabet,
under "St. George," and his want is satisfied.

A youngster wants to know how to build a boat, and you find him Folkard on Boats, or Frazar's
Sail-boats, which describe and figure various styles of water-craft.

Perhaps an inquisitive reader wants to find out all about the families of the various languages,
and what is known of their origin, and you supply him with W. D. Whitney's "Life and Growth
of Language," or Max Müller's "Science of Language," either of which furnishes full information.

Another inquirer seeks for information about the aggregate debts of nations. You give him the
great quarto volume of the last Census on Wealth and Indebtedness, or for still later information
the Statesman's Year Book for 1899, or the Almanach de Gotha for the current year, both of
which contain the comparative debts of nations at the latest dates.

The inquirer who seeks to know the rates of wages paid for all kinds of labor in a series of
several years, can be supplied with the elaborate Report on Labor and Wages for fifty-two years,
published by the U. S. Government in 1893, in four volumes.

Another reader wishes, we will suppose, to hunt up the drawings of all patents that have been
issued on type-writers, and type-writing inventions. You put before him the many indexes to
the Patent Specifications and Patent Office Gazette; he makes out from these his list of volumes
wanted, which are at once supplied, and he falls to work on his long, but to him interesting job.

A reader who has seen in the library or elsewhere a book he would much like to own, but cannot
find a copy in town, wants to know what it will cost: you turn to your American or foreign
catalogue, covering the year of publication, and give him not only the price, but the publisher's
name from whom he can order it, and he goes on his way rejoicing.

An artist engaged upon a painting in which he wishes to introduce a deer, or a group of rabbits,
or an American eagle, or a peacock, asks for an accurate picture of the bird or animal wanted.
You put before him J. S. Kingsley's Riverside Natural History, in six volumes, and his desire
is satisfied.

In dealing with books of reference, there will often be found very important discrepancies
of statement, different works giving different dates, for example, for the same event in history
or biography.

Next to a bible and a dictionary of language, there is no book, perhaps, more common than a
biographical dictionary. Our interest in our fellow-men is perennial; and we seek to know not
only their characteristics, and the distinguishing events of their lives, but also the time
of their birth into the world and their exit from it. This is a species of statistics upon
which one naturally expects certainty, since no person eminent enough to be recorded at all
is likely to have the epoch of his death, at least, unremarked. Yet the seeker after exact
information in the biographical dictionaries will find, if he extends his quest among various
authorities, that he is afloat on a sea of uncertainties. Not only can he not find out the
date of decease of some famous navigators, like Sir John Franklin and La Perouse, who sailed
into unexplored regions of the globe, and were never heard of more, but the men who died at
home, in the midst of friends and families, are frequently recorded as deceased at dates so
discrepant that no ingenuity can reconcile them.

In Haydn's Dictionary of Dates, Sir Henry Havelock was said to have died November 25th, 1857,
while Maunder's Treasury of Biography gives November 21st, the London Almanac, November 27th,
and the Life of Havelock, by his brother-in-law, November 24th. Here are four distinct dates
of death given, by authorities apparently equally accredited, to a celebrated general, who
died within forty years of our own time. Of the death of the notorious Robespierre, guillotined
in 1794, we find in Chalmers' Biographical Dictionary that he died July 10th, in Rees's Cyclopaedia,
July 28th, and in Alison's History of Europe, July 29th. Doubtless it is some comfort to reflect,
in view of his many crimes, that the bloody tyrant of the Jacobins is really dead, irrespective
of the date, about which biographers may dispute. Of the English mechanician Joseph Bramah,
inventor of the Bramah lock, we learn from the English Cyclopaedia, that he died in 1814, and
from Rose's Biographical Dictionary, that he died in 1815.

Now, although a large share of the errors and discrepancies that abound in biographical dictionaries
and other books of reference may be accounted for by misprints, others by reckoning old style
instead of new, and many more by carelessness of writers and transcribers, it is plain that
all the variations cannot be thus accounted for. Nothing is more common in printing offices
than to find a figure 6 inverted serving as a 9, a 5 for a 3, or a 3 for an 8, while 8, 9,
and O, are frequently interchanged. In such cases, a keen-eyed proof-reader may not always
be present to prevent the falsification of history; and it is a fact, not sufficiently recognized,
that to the untiring vigilance, intelligence, and hard, conscientious labors of proof-readers,
the world owes a deeper debt of gratitude than it does to many a famous maker of books. It
is easy enough to make books, Heaven knows, but to make them correct, "Hic labor, hoc opus est."

A high authority in encyclopaedical lore tells us that the best accredited authorities are
at odds with regard to the birth or death of individuals in the enormous ratio of from twenty
to twenty-five per cent. of the whole number in the biographical dictionaries. The Portuguese
poet Camoens is said by some authorities to have been born in 1517, and by others in 1525;
a discrepancy of eight years. Chateaubriand is declared by the English Cyclopaedia to have
been born September 4th, 1768; September 14th, 1768, by the Nouvelle Biographie générale of
Dr. Hoefer; and September 4th, 1769, by the Conversations-Lexicon. Of course it is clear that
all these authorities cannot be right; but which of the three is so, is matter of extreme doubt,
leaving the student of facts perplexed and uncertain at the very point where certainty is not
only most important, but most confidently expected.

Of another kind are the errors that sometimes creep into works of reference of high credit,
by accepting too confidently statements publicly made. In one edition of the Dictionary of
Congress a certain honorable member from Pennsylvania, in uncommonly robust health, was astonished
to find himself recorded as having died of the National Hotel disease, contracted at Washington
in 1856. In this case, the editor of the work was a victim of too much confidence in the newspapers.
In the Congressional Directory, where brief biographies of Congressmen are given, one distinguished
member was printed as having been elected to Congress at a time which, taken in connection
with his birth-date in the same paragraph, made him precisely one year old when he took his
seat in Congress.

Even in reporting the contents of public and private libraries, exaggeration holds sway. The
library of George the Fourth, inherited by that graceless ignoramus from a book-collecting
father, and presented to the British nation with ostentatious liberality only after he had
failed to sell it to Russia, was said in the publications of those times to contain about 120,000
volumes. But an actual enumeration when the books were lodged in the King's library at the
British Museum, where they have ever since remained, showed that there were only 65,250 volumes,
being but little more than half the reported number. Many libraries, public and private, are
equally over-estimated. It is so much easier to guess than to count, and the stern test of
arithmetic is too seldom applied, notwithstanding the fact that 100,000 volumes can easily
be counted in a day by a single person, and so on in the same proportion. Here, as in the statistics
of population, the same proverb holds good, that the unknown is always the magnificent, and
on the surface of the globe we inhabit, the unexplored country is always the most marvellous,
since the world began.

These discrepancies in authorities, and exaggerations of writers, are not referred to for the
purpose of casting doubt upon all published history, but only to point out that we cannot trust
implicitly to what we find in books. Bearing in mind always, that accuracy is perhaps the rarest
of human qualities, we should hold our judgment in reserve upon controverted statements, trusting
no writer implicitly, unless sustained by original authorities. When asked to recommend the
best book upon any subject, do not too confidently assert the merits of the one you may think
the best, but say simply that it is well accredited, or very popular. It is not always safe
to recommend books, and the librarian does well to speak with proper reservations as to most
of them, and to recommend only what are well known to him to be good, by his own intimate acquaintance
with them, or, which is the surest test of all, by the verdicts of critical reviews, or by
the constant reprinting of them in many successive years.

It was the well-nigh unanimous report at a Conference of American librarians, upon the subject
of "aids to readers", that "nothing can take the place of an intelligent and obliging assistant
at the desk." This was after a thorough canvass of the relative merits of the various reference
books and helps to readers in book form. Not only the casual reader, and the reader with a
purpose may be constantly aided by the librarian's knowledge, and larger experience in the
art of finding things, but teachers in the schools, clergymen preparing discourses, and every
one seeking to know anything, should find the librarian a living catalogue. There is nothing
so effective in the world as individual effort.

CHAPTER 11.

ACCESS TO LIBRARY SHELVES.

The matter of free or unrestricted access to the books on the shelves is a vexed question in
libraries. Open and unprotected shelves, either in alcoves or the main reading room, while
they appear to be a boon to readers, who can thus browse at will through the literary pastures,
and turn over volumes at their pleasure, furnish by no means good security for the books. Some
of the smaller public libraries protect their books from access by glass doors in front of
the shelves, which form also a partial protection against dust. Others again, use wire screen
doors, opened, like the others, by lock and key when books are wanted. Both of these arrangements
give to readers the advantage of reading the titles on the backs of most of the books in the
library, while protecting them from being handled, disarranged, or removed. But they are also
open to the objection that they obstruct the prompt service of the books, by just the amount
of time it takes to open the doors or screens, and close them again. This trouble and delay
may overbalance the supposed advantages. Certainly they must do so in all large libraries,
where the frequentation is great, and where every moment's delay in the book service works
disadvantage to numerous readers. While private libraries, or quite small public ones, can
indulge in the luxury of glass cases, no extensive collection can be managed with the requisite
promptitude under their obstructions.

But how to avoid the indiscriminate and usually careless handling of the books on shelves,
by the people frequenting the library, and still extend to readers prompt and full service
of all the books they wish to consult on any subject, is a problem. In a few of the great libraries,
where that modern improvement, the stack system, prevails, the difficulty is solved by the
storing of the books in the outside repositories, or iron book-stacks to which readers are
not admitted. In this case the reading room is only for books in use by those frequenting it,
or is supplied with a selection of reference books simply, the stacks being drawn upon for
all the rest. This of course secures the books both from misplacement and from pillage.

In smaller libraries which have no stack system (and this includes by far the greater number)
a variety of treatment prevails. Most of them are unprovided with any effective means of guarding
the books on the shelves from handling. The result is great insecurity, and inevitable misplacement
of books, amounting often to confusion and chaos on the shelves, unless corrected by much daily
re-arrangement by the librarian or assistants. This consumes much valuable time, which ought
to be devoted to other pressing duties.

One remedy is to guard the shelves by a railing of some kind, which cannot be passed, except
at the gates or passage-ways provided for the attendants. This simple provision will protect
the orderly arrangement as well as the safety of the library--two objects both of cardinal
importance. Absolutely free access to all the shelves means, sooner or later, loss to the library.
And the books most certain to be taken or mutilated are those which it is costly, or difficult,
or in some cases, impossible to replace. The chances of abstracting engravings from books are
much greater in the shadow of the shelves, than in the open reading-room, under the eyes of
many. In any library but the smaller ones, the difficulties and dangers of unrestricted handling
of all the books by the public will be developed in the direct ratio of the size of the library.
Nor will it do to admit one class of readers to the shelves, and exclude others. It often happens
that persons claiming to have special literary or scientific objects, and who profess that
they cannot get along at all by having books brought to them, are favored in their wish to
go to the shelves, while others are disfavored. This raises at once the just complaint that
invidious distinctions are made. The only safe rule to follow is that of universal free access,
or impartial and uniform exclusion from the shelves. In the latter case, no one can complain,
especially when made aware that he can have all the works on a given subject brought to his
seat in a brief time, and can work upon them to much greater comfort and advantage, seated
where there is good light and ample room, than if standing up in the shadow of the shelves
to pursue his researches.

It is also to be considered that such disarrangement of books as inevitably follows free admission
to the shelves deprives the very persons who claim this privilege, of finding what they seek,
until a complete replacement takes place, throughout the library, and this is necessarily a
work of time. That it involves much more time and consequent delay than is occasioned by the
re-shelving of books used in a day, is apparent when we consider that in the latter case, only
the number of volumes actually withdrawn from shelves by the library attendants have to be
replaced, and that these are in conveniently assorted piles all ready to go to their respective
shelves; while in the other case, the displacement is made by many hands, most of them careless
of any convenience but their own, and moreover, the disarranged books are, or are liable to
be, scattered on the wrong shelves, thus throwing the entire library into disorder, requiring
great pains, knowledge, and time to repair.

In any well-regulated library, the absence of any book from its place can almost always be
accounted for. Thus it is either--1. In the reading room, in use; or 2. Charged out to a borrower;
or 3. Sent to the binder for rebinding, or repair; or 4. Reserved for some reader's use; or
5. In temporary use by a cataloguer, or some other library assistant; or 6. Among the books
not yet re-shelved from recent use.

Now each of these is a legitimate reason for the absence of any book not found in its place.
By search under each of these heads, seriatim, aided by the memory of librarian and assistants,
the missing volume should be readily located, and soon availed of for use.

But in the case of books misplaced by readers, no such tracing out of the whereabouts of any
volume is effectual, for the reason that the book may have been (and probably is) put on some
shelf where it does not belong. And the question, where in an extensive collection, a book-hunter
admitted to freely range over all the shelves, and a stranger to the minute classification
of books, has misplaced the missing volumes, is an insoluble problem, except by hunting over
or handling the entire library.

In this close practical view of the case we have to add to the long list of the enemies of
books, formerly enumerated, those who demand a right to browse (as they term it) among the
shelves of a public library, and who displace the books they take down to gratify, it may be,
only an idle curiosity. Their offence consists, not in being anxious to see the books, but
in preventing others from seeing them, by segregating them where neither librarian nor assistants
may be able to find them, when called for. The whole question is summed up in the statement
that the ability to produce library books when called for, depends strictly upon keeping them
in their proper place: and this is quite incompatible with promiscuous handling upon the shelves.

The preservation of order is alike in the interest of the reading public, of the librarian
and his assistants, and of the very persons who complain of it as depriving them of library
facilities. If library facilities consist in rendering the books in it unfindable, and therefore
unavailable to any reader, then the argument for free range of the shelves arrives at a reductio
ad absurdum. The true library facilities consist in a classification and a catalogue which
arrange the books in systematic order, and keep them there, save when called into use. Thus,
and thus only, can those who resort to a public library for actual research, be assured of
finding what they want, just when they want it. The time saved to all readers by the sure and
steady preservation of an orderly arrangement of the books, is simply incalculable. Multiply
the number of volumes out of place by the number of readers who call for them, and you have
some idea of the mischief that may be done through the carelessness of a few favored readers,
to the whole community of scholars. Of course the considerations here set forth pre-suppose
an active and intelligent librarian, and zealous and willing attendants, all ever ready to
aid the researches of readers by the most prompt and helpful suggestions, and by dispatch in
placing before them what they most need. The one cardinal design of a library--to supply the
largest amount of information in the shortest time, is subverted by any disorganizing scheme.
If the library be administered on the just principle of "the greatest good to the greatest
number," then such individual favoritism should never be allowed.

It may, indeed, be claimed that there is no rule without some valid exceptions; but these exceptions
should never be permitted to defeat the cardinal object of the rule--which is to keep every
book strictly in its own place. Let the exception be confined to allowing an occasional inspection
of the shelves in the company of a library attendant, and there will be no trouble.

But there is another danger, aside from the misplacement of books. Experience has shown that
thefts or mutilations of books have been numerous, in direct proportion to the extension of
freedom and opportunity to those frequenting the library. Literary men and book-lovers are
frequently book-collectors also; and the temptation to take what is often too loosely considered
public property is sometimes yielded to by persons whose character and standing may render
them the least suspected. In one of the largest lending libraries in this country, the purloining
of books had been carried so far, that the authorities had to provide a wire fence all around
the reading room, to keep the readers from access to the shelves. The result was soon seen
in the reduction of the number of books stolen from 700 volumes to 300 volumes a year.

After several years' experience of the Astor Library in opening its alcoves to readers (amounting
to practical free admission to the shelves to all calling themselves special students) the
losses and mutilations of books became so serious, that alcove admissions have been greatly
curtailed.

At the Conference of Librarians in London, in 1877, the subject of admission or non-admission
to the shelves was discussed with the result that opinions were preponderantly adverse to the
free range of the library by readers. It was pointed out that libraries are established and
maintained at great cost for serious purposes of reading and study, and that these ends are
best subserved by systematic service at a common centre--not by letting the readers scatter
themselves about the library shelves. To one speaker who held that every one in a free public
library had the right to go to the shelves, and choose his books for himself, it was answered
that this was equivalent to saying that it is the idler's right to stroll about in every place
devoted to a special business, and interrupt that business at his pleasure.

At the International Conference of 1897, an able defence of open shelves was presented, claiming
that it saves much librarians' time in finding books, if readers are allowed to find them for
themselves; that thefts and mutilations are inconsiderable; that it makes an appeal to the
honor of people to respect the books; that the open shelf system does better educational work;
that it is economical by requiring fewer library attendants; that it has grown steadily in
favor in America, and that it gives the people the same right in the library which is their
own, as the individual has in his own.

On the other hand, it was urged that the arguments for open shelves were all arguments for
anarchy; that the readers who want to rummage about for what they want lack proper discipline
of the mind; that the number of books lost under it has been very large; that librarians are
custodians and conservers, as well as dispensers of books; that all books misplaced are practically
lost to the library for the time being; that the open shelf system requires far more space,
and is more expensive; and that, however desirable, its general adoption is utterly impracticable.

The practice of libraries in this particular of administration differs widely, as do the opinions
of librarians regarding it. In most colleges and universities free access is allowed; and in
some public free libraries, both east and west, the readers are allowed to handle the books
on the shelves. This is comparatively safe in the smaller town libraries, where the books are
in compact shape, and the unavoidable misplacement can be corrected daily in no long time.
The experience of "open shelves" in such collections has been so favorable that their librarians
have testified that the losses were insignificant when compared with the great public convenience
resulting. But the difficulty and confusion arising from free handling of the books on shelves
increases in the direct ratio of the size of the library, until, in an extensive collection,
it reaches an intolerable result.

What is encountered continually in enforcing the rule of exclusion from shelves is the almost
universal conceit that some reader is entitled to exemption from such a rule. Explain to him
never so courteously that experience has proved that a library is thrown into confusion by
such admission; that while he may be careful to replace every book handled in the same spot,
nearly all readers are careless, and he will insist that he is the exception, and that he is
always careful. That is human nature, the world over--to believe that one can do things better
than any one else. But if such importunities prevail, the chances are that books will be misplaced
by the very literary expert who has solemnly asserted his infallibility.

On the whole, open shelves may be viewed as an open question. It may be best for small libraries,
as to all the books, and for all libraries as to some classes of books. But make it general,
and order and arrangement are at an end, while chaos takes the place of cosmos. The real student
is better served by the knowledge and aid of the librarian, thus saving his time for study,
than he can be by ranging about dark shelves to find, among multitudes of books he does not
want, the ones that he actually does want. The business of the librarian, and his highest use,
is to bring the resources of the library to the reader. If this takes a hundred or more volumes
a day, he is to have them; but to give him the right to throw a library into confusion by "browsing
around," is to sacrifice the rights of the public to prompt service, to the whim of one man.
Those who think that "browsing" is an education should reflect that it is like any other wandering
employment, fatal to fixity of purpose. Like desultory reading of infinite periodicals, it
tends rather to dissipate the time and the attention than to inform and strengthen the mind.

In libraries of wide circulation in America, many have open shelves, and many more free access
to certain classes of books. The Newark Free Library opens all departments except fiction;
others open fiction and current literature only. Some libraries, notably in England, have a
"safe-guarded" open-shelf system, by which the public are given free range inside the library,
while the librarians take post at the outside railing, to charge books drawn, and check off
depredations. This method may be styled "every one his own librarian," and is claimed by its
originators to work well.

At the Conference of the American Library Association in 1899, after discussion, votes were
taken, showing 50 librarians in favor of free access to shelves for small libraries, as against
only 10 for unrestricted access in large libraries.

The debate brought out curious and instructive facts as to losses of books where free range
is allowed. The Denver Public Library lost in one year 955 volumes; the Buffalo Public Library
700 books in seventeen months; the Minneapolis, 300 in a year; and the St. Louis Public Library
1,062 volumes in two years, out of "a very limited open shelf collection." One librarian, estimating
the loss of books at $1,000 worth in two years, said the library board were perfectly satisfied,
and that "unless we lose $2,500 worth of books a year, the open-shelf system pays in its saving
of the expenses of attendance." It does not appear to have occurred to them that a public library
owes anything to the public morality, nor that a library losing its books by the thousand,
to save the cost of proper management, may be holding out a premium to wholesale robbery.

There is another precaution essential to be observed regarding the more costly and rare possessions
of the library. Such books should not be placed upon the shelves with the ordinary books of
the collection, but provided for in a repository under lock and key. In a large library, where
many hundred volumes of books of especial rarity and value are to be found, a separate room
should always exist for this class of books. They will properly include (1) Incunabula, or
early printed books; (2) Manuscripts, or unique specimens, such as collections of autographs
of notable people; (3) Illuminated books, usually written on vellum, or printed in color; (4)
Early and rare Americana, or books of American discovery, history, etc., which are scarce and
difficult to replace; (5) Any books known to be out of print; and (6) Many costly illustrated
works which should be kept apart for only occasional inspection by readers. Where no separate
room exists for safe custody of such treasures, they should be provided with a locked book-case
or cases, according to their number. When any of these reserved books are called for, they
should be supplied to readers under special injunctions of careful handling. Neglect of precaution
may at any time be the means of losing to the library a precious volume. It is easy for an
unknown reader who calls for such a rare or costly work, to sign his ticket with a false name,
and slip the book under his coat when unobserved, and so leave the library unchallenged. But
the librarian or assistant who supplies the book, if put on his guard by having to fetch it
from a locked repository, should keep the reader under observation, unless well known, until
the volume is safely returned. Designing and dishonest persons are ever hovering about public
libraries, and some of the most dangerous among them are men who know the value of books.

This class of reserved books should not be given out in circulation, under any circumstances.
Not only are they subject to injury by being handled in households where there are children
or careless persons, who soil or deface them, but they are exposed to the continual peril of
fire, and consequent loss to the library. There are often books among these rarities, which
money cannot replace, because no copies can be found when wanted. In the Library of Congress,
there is a very salutary safe-guard thrown around the most valuable books in the form of a
library regulation which provides that no manuscript whatever, and no printed book of special
rarity and value shall be taken out of the library by any person. This restriction of course
applies to Members of Congress, as well as to those officials who have the legal right to draw
books from the library.

CHAPTER 12.

THE FACULTY OF MEMORY.

To every reader nothing can be more important than that faculty of the mind which we call memory.
The retentive memory instinctively stores up the facts, ideas, imagery, and often the very
language found in books, so clearly that they become available at any moment in after life.
The tenacity of this hold upon the intellectual treasures which books contain depends largely
upon the strength of the impression made upon the mind when reading. And this, in turn, depends
much upon the force, clearness and beauty of the author's style or expression. A crude, or
feeble, or wordy, redundant statement makes little impression, while a terse, clear, well-balanced
sentence fixes the attention, and so fastens itself in the memory. Hence the books which are
best remembered will be those which are the best written. Great as is the power of thought,
we are often obliged to confess that the power of expression is greater still. When the substance
and the style of any writing concur to make a harmonious and strong impression on the reader's
mind, the writer has achieved success. All our study of literature tends to confirm the conviction
of the supreme importance of an effective style.

We must set down a good memory as a cardinal qualification of the librarian. This faculty of
the mind, in fact, is more important to him than to the members of any other profession whatever,
because it is more incessantly drawn upon. Every hour in the day, and sometimes every minute
in the hour, he has to recall the names of certain books, the authors of the same, including
both their surnames and Christian or forenames, the subjects principally treated in them, the
words of some proverb or quotation, or elegant extract in poetry or prose, the period of time
of an author or other noted person, the standard measurements and weights in use, with their
equivalents, the moneys of foreign nations and their American values, the time of certain notable
events in history, whether foreign or American, ancient or modern, the names and succession
of rulers, the prices of many books, the rules observed in the catalogue, both of authors and
subjects, the names and schools of great artists, with their period, the meaning in various
foreign languages of certain words, the geographical location of any place on the earth's surface,
the region of the library in which any book is located--and, in short, an infinitude of items
of information which he wants to know out of hand, for his own use, or in aid of Library readers
or assistants. The immense variety of these drafts upon his memory seldom perplexes one who
is well endowed with a natural gift in that direction. In fact, it seems actually true of such
minds, that the more numerous the calls upon the memory, the more ready is the response.

The metaphysicians have spent many words in attempting to define the various qualities of the
mind, and to account for a strong or a weak memory; but after all is said, we find that the
surprising difference between different memories is unaccounted for; as unaccountable, indeed,
as what differences the man of genius from the mere plodder. The principle of association of
ideas is doubtless the leading element in a memory which is not merely verbal. We associate
in our minds, almost instinctively, ideas of time, or space, or persons, or events, and these
connect or compare one with another, so that what we want is called up or recalled in memory,
by a train of endless suggestion. We all have this kind of memory, which may be termed the
rational or ideal, as distinguished from the verbal and the local memory. The verbal memory
is that which retains in the mind, and reproduces at will what has been said in our hearing
by others, or what we have read which has made a marked impression upon us. Thus, some persons
can repeat with almost exact accuracy, every word of a long conversation held with another.
Others can repeat whole poems, or long passages in prose from favorite authors, after reading
them over two or three times, and can retain them perfectly in memory for half a century or
more. There have even been persons to whom one single reading of any production was sufficient
to enable them to repeat it verbatim. These instances of a great verbal memory are by no means
rare, although some of them appear almost incredible. John Locke tells us of the French philosopher
Pascal, that he never forgot anything of what he had done, said, or thought, in any part of
his natural life. And the same thing is recorded of that great scholar of Holland, Hugo Grotius.

The mathematician Euler could repeat the Aeneid of Virgil from beginning to end, containing
nearly nine thousand lines. Mozart, upon hearing the Miserere of Allegri played in the Sistine
Chapel at Rome, only once, went to his hotel, and wrote it all down from memory, note for note.

Cardinal Mezzofanti both wrote and spoke thirty languages, and was quite familiar with more
than a hundred. He said that if he once heard the meaning of a word in any language, he never
forgot it. Yet he was of the opinion, that although he had twenty words for one idea, it was
better to have twenty ideas for one word; which is no doubt true, so far as real intellectual
culture is concerned. Lord Macaulay, who had a phenomenal memory, said that if all the copies
of Milton's Paradise Lost were to be destroyed, he could reproduce the book complete, from
memory. In early life he was a great admirer of Walter Scott's poetry, and especially the "Lay
of the Last Minstrel", and could repeat the whole of that long poem, more than six hundred
lines, from memory. And at the age of fifty-seven he records--"I walked in the portico, and
learned by heart the noble fourth act of the Merchant of Venice. There are four hundred lines.
I made myself perfect master of the whole in two hours." It was said of him that every incident
he heard of, and every page he read, "assumed in his mind a concrete spectral form."

But the memory for names and words has been sometimes called the lowest form of memory. Persons
of defective or impaired intellect frequently have strong and retentive verbal memories. Mrs.
Somerville records the case of an idiot who could repeat a whole sermon verbatim, after once
hearing it, but who was stupid and ignorant as to every thing else. And there are many instances
in the books to the same effect.

Another kind of memory may be called, for want of a better name, the local memory. A person
who has this strongly developed, if he once goes to a place, whether a room, or a street in
a city, or a road in any part of the country, knows the way again, and can find it by instinct
ever after. In the same way any one gifted with this almost unerring sense of locality, can
find any book on any shelf in any part of a library where he has once been. He knows, in like
manner, on which side of the page he saw any given passage in a book, which impressed him at
the time, although he may never have had the volume in his hand more than once. He may not
remember the number of the page, but he is sure of his recollection that it was the left or
the right hand one, as the case may be, and this knowledge will abridge his labor and time
in finding it again by just one half. This local memory is invaluable to a librarian or an
assistant in shortening the labor of finding things. If you have a good local memory, you can,
in no long time, come to dispense with the catalogue and its shelf-marks or classification
marks, almost entirely, in finding your books. Although this special gift of memory--the sense
of locality--is unquestionably a lower faculty of the mind than some others named, and although
there are illiterate persons who can readily find and produce any books in a library which
have often passed through their hands, yet it is a faculty by no means to be despised. It is
one of the labor-saving, time-saving gifts, which should be welcomed by every librarian. The
time saved from searching the catalogues for location-marks of the outside of books, will enable
him to make many a research in their inside. This faculty, of course, is indefinitely strengthened
and improved by use--and the same is true of the other branches of the sense which we call
memory. The oftener you have been to any place, the better you know the way. The more frequently
you have found and produced a given book from its proper receptacle, the easier and the quicker
will be your finding it again.

Another faculty or phase of memory is found in the ability to call up the impression made by
any object once seen by the eye, so as to reproduce it accurately in speech or writing. This
may be termed the intuitive memory. There are many applications or illustrations of this faculty.
Thus, for example, you see a book on some shelf in your library. You take in its size, its
binding, both the material and the color, and its title as lettered on the back. All this you
absorb with one glance of the eye. You remember it by the principle of association--that is,
you associate with that particular book, in connection with its title, a certain dimension,
color, and style of binding. Now, when you have occasion to look up that special volume again,
you not only go, aided by your memory of locality, to the very section and shelf of the library
where it belongs, but you take with you instinctively, your memory or mental image of the book's
appearance. Thus, you perhaps distinctly remember (1) that it was an octavo, and your eye in
glancing along the shelf where it belongs, rejects intuitively all the duodecimos or books
of lesser size, to come to the octavos. (2) Then you also remember that it was bound in leather,
consequently you pass quickly by all the cloth bound volumes on the shelf. (3) in the third
place you know that its color was red; and you pay no attention whatever to books of any other
color, but quickly seize your red leather-bound octavo, and bear it off to the reading-room
in triumph. Of course there are circumstances where this quick operation of the faculties of
memory and intuition combined, would not be so easy. For example, all the books (or nearly
all) on a given shelf might be octavos; or they might all be leather-bound; or a majority of
them with red backs; and the presence of one or more of these conditions would eliminate one
or more of the facilities for most rapidly picking out the book wanted. But take a pile of
books, we will say returned by many readers, on the library counter. You are searching among
them for a particular volume that is again wanted. There is no order or arrangement of the
volumes, but you distinctly remember, from having handled it, its size both as to height and
thickness, its color, and how it was bound. You know it was a thin 12mo. in green cloth binding.
Do you, in your search, take up every book in that mass, to scrutinize its title, and see if
it is the one you seek? By no means. You quickly thrust aside, one by one, or by the half-dozen,
all the volumes which are not green, cloth-bound, thin duodecimos, without so much as glancing
at them. Your special volume is quickly found among hundreds of volumes, and your faculty of
memory and intuition has saved you perhaps a quarter of an hour of valuable time, which, without
that faculty, might have been wasted in search.

Again, another circumstance which might intervene to diminish the frequency of application
of the memory referred to, as to the physical features or appearance of a book sought for,
is where the shelf-arrangement is alphabetical, by authors' names, or by the names of the subjects
of the books, if it is an alphabet of biographies. Here, the surest and the quickest guide
to the book is of course the alphabetical order, in which it must necessarily be found.

This memory of the aspect of any object once looked at, is further well illustrated in the
very varied facilities for the spelling of words found in different persons. Thus, there are
people who, when they once see any word (we will say a proper name) written or printed, can
always afterwards spell that word unerringly, no matter how uncommon it may be. The mental
retina, so to speak, receives so clear and exact an impression of the form of that word from
the eye, that it retains and reproduces it at will.

But there are others, (and among them persons of much learning in some directions) upon whom
the form or orthography of a word makes little or no impression, however frequently it meets
the eye in reading. I have known several fine scholars, and among them the head of an institution
of learning, who could not for the life of them spell correctly; and this infirmity extended
even to some of the commonest words in the language. Why this inaptitude on the part of many,
and this extraordinary facility on the part of others, in the memorizing faculty, is a phenomenon
which may be noted down, but not solved. That vivid mental picture which is seen by the inward
eye of the person favored with a good memory, is wholly wanting, or seen only dimly and rarely
in the case of one who easily forgets.

So vital and important is memory, that it has been justly denominated by the German philosopher,
Kant, "the most wonderful of our faculties." Without it, the words of a book would be unintelligible
to us, since it is memory alone which furnishes us with the several meanings to be attached
to them.

Some writers on the science of mind assert that there is no such thing with any of us as absolutely
forgetting anything that has once been in the mind. All mental activities, all knowledge which
ever existed, persists. We never wholly lose them, but they become faint and obscure. One mental
image effaces another. But those which have thus disappeared may be recalled by an act of reminiscence.
While it may sometimes be impossible to recover one of them at the moment when wanted, by an
act of voluntary recollection, some association may bring it unexpectedly and vividly before
us. Memory plays us many strange tricks, both when we wake and when we dream. It revives, by
an involuntary process, an infinite variety of past scenes, faces, events, ideas, emotions,
passions, conversations, and written or printed pages, all of which we may have fancied had
passed forever from our consciousness.

The aids to memory supposed to be furnished by the various mnemonic systems may now be briefly
considered. These methods of supplying the defects of a naturally weak memory, or of strengthening
a fairly good one, are one and all artificial. This might not be a conclusive objection to
them, were they really effective and permanent helps, enabling one who has learned them to
recall with certainty ideas, names, dates, and events which he is unable to recall by other
means. Theory apart, it is conceded that a system of memorizing which had proved widely or
generally successful in making a good memory out of a poor one, would deserve much credit.
But experience with these systems has as yet failed to show, by the stern test of practical
utility, that they can give substantial (and still less permanent) aid in curing the defects
of memory. Most of the systems of mnemonics that have been invented are constructed on the
principle of locality, or of utilizing objects which appeal to the sight. There is nothing
new in these methods, for the principle is as old as Simonides, who lived in the fifth century
before Christ, and who devised a system of memorizing by locality. One of the most prevalent
systems now taught is to select a number of rooms in a house (in the mind's eye, of course)
and divide the walls and the floors of each room into nine equal parts or squares, three in
a row. Then

     "On the front wall--that opposite the entrance of the first
     room--are the units, on the right-hand wall the tens, on the left
     hand the twenties, on the fourth wall the thirties, and on the
     floor the forties. Numbers 10, 20, 30, and 40, each find a place
     on the roof above their respective walls. One room will thus
     furnish 50 places, and ten rooms as many as 500, while 50
     occupies the centre of the roof. Having fixed these clearly in
     the mind, so as to be able readily and at once to tell the exact
     position of each place or number, it is then necessary to
     associate with each of them some familiar object (or symbol) so
     that the object being suggested, its place may be instantly
     remembered, or when the place is before the mind, its object may
     immediately spring up. When this has been done thoroughly, the
     objects can be run over in any order from beginning to end, or
     from end to beginning, or the place of any particular one can at
     once be given. All that is further necessary is to associate the
     ideas we wish to remember with the objects in the various places,
     by which means they are readily remembered, and can be gone over
     in any order. In this way, one may learn to repeat several
     hundred disconnected words or ideas in any order, after hearing
     them only once."

This rather complicated machinery for aiding the memory is quite too mechanical to commend
itself to any one accustomed to reflect or to take note of his own mental processes. Such an
elaborate system crowds the mind with a lot of useless furniture, and hinders rather than helps
a rational and straightforward habit of memorizing. It too much resembles the feat of trying
to jump over a wall by running back a hundred or more yards to acquire a good start or momentum.
The very complication of the system is fitted to puzzle rather than to aid the memory. It is
based on mechanical or arithmetical associations--not founded on nature, and is of very small
practical utility. It does not strengthen or improve the habit of memorizing, which should
always be based upon close attention, and a logical method of classifying, associating, and
analyzing facts or ideas.

Lord Bacon, more than two centuries ago, wisely characterized mnemonic systems as "barren and
useless." He wrote, "For immediately to repeat a multitude of names or words once repeated
before, I esteem no more than rope-dancing, antic postures, and feats of activity; and, indeed,
they are nearly the same thing, the one being the abuse of the bodily, as the other is of mental
powers; and though they may cause admiration, they cannot be highly esteemed."

In fact, these mnemonical systems are only a kind of crutches, sometimes useful to people who
cannot walk, but actual impediments to those having the use of their limbs, and who by proper
exercise can maintain their healthy and natural use indefinitely.

I have given you an account of one of these artificial systems of memory, or systems of artificial
memory, as you may choose to call them. There have been invented more than one hundred different
systems of mnemonics, all professing to be invaluable, and some claiming to be infallible.
It appears to be a fatal objection to these memory-systems that they substitute a wholly artificial
association of ideas for a natural one. The habit of looking for accidental or arbitrary relations
of names and things is cultivated, and the power of logical, spontaneous thought is injured
by neglecting essential for unessential relations. These artificial associations of ideas work
endless mischief by crowding out the natural ones.

How then, you may ask, is a weak memory to be strengthened, or a fairly good memory to be cultivated
into a better one? The answer is, by constant practice, and for this the vocation of a librarian
furnishes far more opportunities than any other. At the basis of this practice of the memory,
lies the habit of attention. All memory depends upon the strength or vividness of the impression
made upon the mind, by the object, the name, the word, the date, which is sought to be remembered.
And this, in turn, depends on the degree of attention with which it was first regarded. If
the attention was so fixed that a clear mental image was formed, there will be no difficulty
in remembering it again. If, on the other hand, you were inattentive, or listless, or pre-occupied
with other thoughts, when you encountered the object, your impression of it would be hazy and
indistinct, and no effort of memory would be likely to recall it.

Attention has been defined as the fixing of the mind intently upon one particular object, to
the exclusion for a time, of all other objects soliciting notice. It is essential to those
who would have a good memory, to cultivate assiduously the habit of concentration of thought.
As the scattering shot hits no mark, so the scattering and random thoughts that sweep through
an unoccupied brain lead to no memorable result, simply from want of attention or of fixation
upon some one mental vision or idea. With your attention fastened upon any subject or object,
you see it more clearly, and it impresses itself more vividly in the memory, as a natural consequence.
Not only so, but its related objects or ideas are brought up by the principle of association,
and they too make a deeper impression and are more closely remembered. In fact, one thing carefully
observed and memorized, leads almost insensibly to another that is related to it, and thus
the faculty of association is strengthened, the memory is stimulated, and the seeds of knowledge
are deeply planted in that complex organism which we call the mind. This power of attention,
of keeping an object or a subject steadily in view until it is absorbed or mastered, is held
by some to be the most distinctive element in genius. Most people have not this habit of concentration
of the mind, but allow it to wander aimlessly on, flitting from subject to subject, without
mastering any; but then, most people are not geniuses. The habit to be cultivated is that of
thinking persistently of only one thing at a time, sternly preventing the attention from wandering.

It may be laid down as an axiom that the two corner-stones of memory are attention and association.
And both of these must act in harmony, the habit of fixed attention being formed or guided
by the will, before a normal or retentive memory becomes possible. What is called cultivating
the memory, therefore, does not mean anything more than close attention to whatever we wish
to remember, with whatever associations naturally cling to it, until it is actually mastered.
If one has not an instinctive or naturally strong memory, he should not rest satisfied with
letting the days go by until he has improved it. The way to improve it, is to begin at the
foundation, and by the constant exercise of the will-power, to take up every subject with fixed
attention, and one at a time, excluding every other for the time being. There is no doubt whatever
that the memory is capable of indefinite improvement; and though one's first efforts in that
direction may prove a disappointment, because only partially successful, he should try, and
try again, until he is rewarded with the full fruits of earnest intellectual effort, in whatever
field. He may have, at the start, instead of a fine memory, what a learned professor called,
"a fine forgettery," but let him persevere to the end. None of us were made to sit down in
despair because we are not endowed with an all-embracing memory, or because we cannot "speak
with the tongues of men and of angels," and do not know "all mysteries and all knowledge."
It rather becomes us to make the best and highest use, day by day, of the talents that are
bestowed upon us, remembering that however short of perfection they may be, we are yet far
more gifted than myriads of our fellow-creatures in this very imperfect world.

There is no question that the proper cultivation of the memory is, or ought to be, the chief
aim of education. All else is so dependent upon this, that it may be truly affirmed that, without
memory, knowledge itself would be impossible. By giving up oneself with fixed attention to
what one seeks to remember, and trusting the memory, though it may often fail, any person can
increase his powers of memory and consequently of learning, to an indefinite degree. To improve
and strengthen the memory, it must be constantly exercised. Let it be supplied with new knowledge
frequently, and called on daily to reproduce it. If remembered only imperfectly or in part,
refresh it by reference to the source whence the knowledge came; and repeat this carefully
and thoroughly, until memory becomes actually the store-house of what you know on that subject.
If there are certain kinds of facts and ideas which you more easily forget than others, it
is a good way to practice upon them, taking up a few daily, and adding to them by degrees.
Dr. W. T. Harris, the United States Commissioner of Education, gave his personal experience
to the effect that he always found it hard to remember dates. He resolved to improve a feeble
memory in this respect by learning the succession of English Kings, from William the Conqueror,
down to Victoria. With his characteristic thoroughness, he began by learning three or four
dates of accession only, the first day; two new ones were added the second day; then one new
king added the third day; and thereafter even less frequency was observed in learning the chronology.
By this method he had the whole table of thirty-six sovereigns learned, and made familiar by
constant review. It had to be learned anew one year after, and once again after years of neglect.
But his memory for dates steadily grew, and without conscious effort, dates and numbers soon
came to be seized with a firmer grasp than before. This kind of memory, he adds, now improves
or increases with him from year to year. Here is an instance of cultivation of memory by a
notable scholar, who adds a monition to learners with weak memories, not to undertake to memorize
too much at once. Learning a succession of fifty names slowly, he says, will so discipline
the memory for names, as to partially or even permanently remove all embarrassment from that
source. I may add that a long table of names or dates, or any prolonged extract in verse or
prose, if learned by repeating it over and over as a whole, will be less tenaciously retained
in memory, than if committed in parts.

The highest form of memory is actually unconscious, i. e., that in which what we would recall
comes to us spontaneously, without effort or lapse of time in thinking about it. It is this
kind of memory that has been possessed by all the notable persons who have been credited with
knowing everything, or with never forgetting anything. It is not to be reckoned to their credit,
so much as to their good fortune. What merit is there in having a good memory, when one cannot
help remembering?

There is one caution to be given to those who are learning to improve a memory naturally weak.
When such a one tries to recall a date, or name, or place, or idea, or book, it frequently
happens that the endeavor fails utterly. The more he tries, the more obstinately the desired
object fails to respond. As the poet Pope wrote about the witless author:

    "You beat your pate, and fancy wit will come;
     Knock as you please, there's nobody at home."

In these cases, no attempt to force the memory should be made, nor should the attention be
kept long on the subject, for this course only injures the faculty, and leads to confusion
of mind. To persist in a constantly baffled effort to recover a word, or other forgotten link
in memory, is a laborious attempt which is itself likely to cause failure, and induce a distrust
of the memory which is far from rational. The forgotten object will probably recur in no long
time after, when least expected.

Much discursive reading is not only injurious to the faculty of memory, but may be positively
destructive of it. The vast extent of our modern world of reviews, magazines and newspapers,
with their immense variety of subjects, dissipates the attention instead of concentrating it,
and becomes fatal to systematic thought, tenacious memory, and the acquirement of real knowledge.
The mind that is fed upon a diet of morning and evening newspapers, mainly or solely, will
become flabby, uncertain, illogical, frivolous, and, in fact, little better than a scatterbrains.
As one who listens to an endless dribble of small talk lays up nothing out of all the palaver,
which, to use a common phrase, "goes in at one ear, and out at the other," so the reader who
continuously absorbs all the stuff which the daily press, under the pretext of "printing the
news," inflicts upon us, is nothing benefited in intellectual gifts or permanent knowledge.
What does he learn by his assiduous pursuit of these ephemeral will o' the wisps, that only
"lead to bewilder, and dazzle to blind?" He absorbs an incredible amount of empty gossip, doubtful
assertions, trifling descriptions, apocryphal news, and some useful, but more useless knowledge.
The only visible object of spending valuable time over these papers appears to be to satisfy
a momentary curiosity, and then the mass of material read passes almost wholly out of the mind,
and is never more thought of. Says Coleridge, one of the foremost of English thinkers: "I believe
the habit of perusing periodical works may be properly added to the catalogue of anti-mnemonics,
or weakeners of the memory."

If read sparingly, and for actual events, newspapers have a value which is all their own; but
to spend hours upon them, as many do, is mere mental dissipation.

CHAPTER 13.

QUALIFICATIONS OF A LIBRARIAN.

In directing attention to some of the more important elements which should enter into the character
and acquirements of a librarian, I shall perhaps not treat them in the order of their relative
importance. Thus, some persons might consider the foremost qualification for one aspiring to
the position of a librarian to be wide knowledge in literature and science: others would say
that the possession of sound common sense is above all things essential; others an excellent
and retentive memory; still others might insist that business habits and administrative faculty
are all-important; and others again, a zeal for learning and for communicating it to others.

I shall not venture to pronounce what, among the multitude of talents that are requisite to
constitute a good librarian is the most requisite. Suffice it to say, that all of them which
I shall notice are important, and that the order of their treatment determines nothing as to
which are more and which are less important. So much is expected of librarians that it actually
appears as if a large portion of the public were of the opinion that it is the duty of him
who has a library in charge to possess himself, in some occult or mysterious way, unknown to
the common mind, of all the knowledge which all the books combine.

The Librarian of the British Museum, speaking to a conference of librarians in London, quoted
a remark of Pattison, in his "Life of Casaubon," that "the librarian who reads is lost." This
was certainly true of that great scholar Casaubon, who in his love for the contents of the
books under his charge, forgot his duties as a librarian. And it is to a large degree true
of librarians in general, that those who pursue their own personal reading or study during
library hours do it at the expense of their usefulness as librarians. They must be content
with such snatches of reading as come in the definite pursuit of some object of research incident
to their library work, supplemented by such reading time as unoccupied evenings, Sundays, and
annual vacations may give them.

Yet nothing is more common than for applicants for the position of librarians or assistant
librarians to base their aspiration upon the foolish plea that they are "so fond of reading",
or that they "have always been in love with books." So far from this being a qualification,
it may become a disqualification. Unless combined with habits of practical, serious, unremitting
application to labor, the taste for reading may seduce its possessor into spending the minutes
and the hours which belong to the public, in his own private gratification. The conscientious,
the useful librarian, living amid the rich intellectual treasures of centuries, the vast majority
of which he has never read, must be content daily to enact the part of Tantalus, in the presence
of a tempting and appetizing banquet which is virtually beyond his reach.

But he may console himself by the reflection that comparatively few of the books upon his shelves
are so far worth reading as to be essential. "If I had read as many books as other men," said
Hobbes of Malmesbury, "I should have been as ignorant as they."

If the librarian, in the precious time which is indisputably his, reads a wise selection of
the best books, the masterpieces of the literature of all lands, which have been consecrated
by time and the suffrages of successive generations of readers, he can well afford to apply
to the rest, the short-hand method recommended in a former chapter, and skim them in the intervals
of his daily work, instead of reading them. Thus he will become sufficiently familiar with
the new books of the day (together with the information about their contents and merits furnished
by the literary reviews, which he must read, however sparingly, in order to keep up with his
profession) to be able to furnish readers with some word of comment as to most books coming
into the Library. This course, or as close an approximation to it as his multifarious duties
will permit, will go far to solve the problem that confronts every librarian who is expected
to be an exponent of universal knowledge. Always refraining from unqualified praise of books
(especially of new ones) always maintaining that impartial attitude toward men and opinions
which becomes the librarian, he should act the part of a liberal, eclectic, catholic guide
to inquirers of every kind.

And here let me emphasize the great importance to every librarian or assistant of early learning
to make the most of his working faculties. He cannot afford to plod along through a book, sentence
by sentence, like an ordinary reader. He must learn to read a sentence at a glance. The moment
his eye lights upon a title-page he should be able to take it all in by a comprehensive and
intuitive mental process. Too much stress cannot be laid upon the every-day habit or method
of reading. It makes all the difference between time saved, and time wasted; between efficiency
and inefficiency; between rapid progress and standing still, in one's daily work. No pains
should be spared, before entering upon the all-engrossing work of a library, to acquire the
habit of rapid reading. An eminent librarian of one of the largest libraries was asked whether
he did not find a great deal of time to read? His reply was--"I wish that I could ever get
as much as one hour a day for reading--but I have never been able to do it." Of course every
librarian must spend much time in special researches; and in this way a good deal of some of
his days will be spent in acquainting himself with the resources of his library; but this is
incidental and not systematic reading.

In viewing the essential qualifications of a librarian, it is necessary to say at the outset
that a library is no place for uneducated people. The requirements of the position are such
as to demand not only native talent above the average, but also intellectual acquirements above
the average. The more a librarian knows, the more he is worth, and the converse of the proposition
is equally true, that the less he knows the less he is worth. Before undertaking the arduous
task of guiding others in their intellectual pursuits, one should make sure that he is himself
so well-grounded in learning that he can find the way in which to guide them. To do this, he
must indispensably have something more than a smattering of the knowledge that lies at the
foundation of his profession. He must be, if not widely read, at least carefully grounded in
history, science, literature, and art. While he may not, like Lord Bacon, take all knowledge
to be his province, because he is not a Lord Bacon, nor if he were, could he begin to grasp
the illimitable domain of books of science and literature which have been added to human knowledge
in the two centuries and a half since Bacon wrote, he can at least, by wise selection, master
enough of the leading works in each field, to make him a well-informed scholar. That great
treasury of information on the whole circle of the sciences, and the entire range of literature,
the Encyclopaedia Britannica, judiciously studied, will alone give what would appear to the
average mind, a very liberal education.

One of the most common and most inconsiderate questions propounded to a librarian is this:
"Do you ever expect to read all these books through?" and it is well answered by propounding
another question, namely--"Did you ever read your dictionary through?" A great library is the
scholar's dictionary--not to be read through, but to enable him to put his finger on the fact
he wants, just when it is wanted.

A knowledge of some at least of the foreign languages is indispensable to the skilled librarian.
In fact, any one aspiring to become an assistant in any large library, or the head of any small
one, should first acquire at least an elementary knowledge of French and Latin. Aside from
books in other languages than English which necessarily form part of every considerable library,
there are innumerable quotations or words in foreign tongues scattered through books and periodicals
in English, which a librarian, appealed to by readers who are not scholars, would be mortified
if found unable to interpret them. The librarian who does not understand several languages
will be continually at a loss in his daily work. A great many important catalogues, and bibliographies,
essential parts of the equipment of a library, will be lost to him as aids, and he can neither
select foreign books intelligently nor catalogue them properly. If he depends upon the aid
of others more expert, his position will be far from agreeable or satisfactory. How many and
what foreign languages should be learned may be matter for wide difference of opinion. But
so far-reaching is the prevalence of the Latin, as one of the principal sources of our own
language, and of other modern tongues, that a knowledge of it is most important. And so rich
is the literature of France, to say nothing of the vast number of French words constantly found
in current English and American books and periodicals, that at least a fairly thorough mastery
of that language should be acquired. The same may be said of the German, which is even more
important in some parts of the United States, and which has a literature most copious and valuable
in every varied department of knowledge. With these three tongues once familiar, the Italian,
Spanish, Portuguese, Dutch, and Scandinavian languages may be, through the aid of dictionaries,
so far utilized as to enable one to read titles and catalogue books in any of them, although
a knowledge of all, so as to be able to read books in them, is highly desirable.

In the Boston Public Library, the assistants are required to possess an adequate knowledge
of Latin, French, and German. And all candidates for positions in the reading-room of the British
Museum Library must undergo a thorough test examination as to their knowledge of the Latin
language. Opportunities for acquiring foreign languages are now so abundant that there is small
excuse for any one who wants to know French, Latin or German, and yet goes through life without
learning them. There are even ways of learning these languages with sufficient thoroughness
for reading purposes without a teacher, and sometimes without a text-book. Two assistant librarians
taught themselves French and German in their evenings, by setting out to read familiar works
of English fiction in translations into those languages, and soon acquired a good working knowledge
of both, so as to be able to read any work in either, with only occasional aid from the dictionary
for the less common words. It is surprising how soon one can acquire a sufficient vocabulary
in any language, by reading any of its great writers. A good way for a beginner to learn French
without a master is to take a French New Testament, and read the four Gospels through. After
doing this three or four times, almost any one who is at all familiar with the Scriptures,
will be able to read most books in the French language with facility. In the great art of learning,
all doors are easily unlocked--by those who have the key.

It should go without saying that the librarian should possess a wide knowledge of books. This
knowledge should include (1) an acquaintance with ancient and modern literature, so as to be
able to characterize the notable writers in each of the leading languages of the world; (2)
a knowledge of history extensive enough to enable him to locate all the great characters, including
authors, in their proper century and country; (3) a knowledge of editions, so as to discriminate
between the old and the new, the full and the abridged, the best edited, best printed, etc.;
(4) an acquaintance with the intrinsic value or the subject and scope of most of the great
books of the world; (5) a knowledge of commercial values, so as to be able to bid or to buy
understandingly, and with proper economy; (6) a familiarity with what constitutes condition
in library books, and with binding and repairing processes, for the restoration of imperfect
volumes for use.

The librarian should be one who has had the benefit of thorough preliminary training, for no
novice is qualified to undertake the role of an expert, and any attempt to do so can result
only in disappointment and failure. No one who has read little or nothing but novels since
leaving school need ever hope to succeed.

No librarian can know too much, since his work brings him into relation with the boundless
domain of human knowledge. He should not be a specialist in science (except in the one science
of bibliography) but must be content with knowing a little about a great many things, rather
than knowing everything about one thing. Much converse with books must fill him with a sense
of his own ignorance. The more he comes to know, the wider will open before him the illimitable
realm of what is yet to be known. In the lowest deep which research the most profound can reach,
there is a lower deep still unattained--perhaps, even, unattainable. But the fact that he cannot
by any possibility master all human knowledge should not deter the student from making ever
advancing inroads upon that domain. The vast extent of the world of books only emphasizes the
need of making a wise selection from the mass. We are brought inevitably back to that precept
by every excursion that we make into whatever field of literature.

The librarian should possess, besides a wide acquaintance with books, a faculty of administration,
and this rests upon careful business habits. He should have a system in all the library work.
Every assistant should have a prescribed task, and be required to learn and to practice all
the methods peculiar to library economy, including the economy of time. Each day's business
should be so organized as to show an advance at the end. The library must of course have rules,
and every rule should be so simple and so reasonable that it will commend itself to every considerate
reader or library assistant. All questions of doubt or dispute as to the observance of any
regulation, should be decided at once, courteously but firmly, and in a few words. Nothing
can be more unseemly than a wrangle in a public library over some rule or its application,
disturbing readers who are entitled to silence, and consuming time that should be given to
the service of the public.

When Thomas Carlyle, one of the great scholars of modern times, testified in 1848 before a
Parliamentary Commission upon the British Museum Library, he thus spoke of the qualifications
of a librarian:

"All must depend upon the kind of management you get within the library itself. You must get
a good pilot to steer the ship, or you will never get into the harbor. You must have a man
to direct who knows well what the duty is that he has to do, and who is determined to go through
that, in spite of all clamor raised against him; and who is not anxious to obtain approbation,
but is satisfied that he will obtain it by and by, provided he acts ingenuously and faithfully."

Another quality most important in a librarian is an even temper. He should be always and unfailingly
courteous, not only to scholars and visitors of high consideration, but to every reader, however
humble or ignorant, and to every employee, however subordinate in position. There is nothing
which more detracts from one's usefulness than a querulous temper. Its possessor is seldom
happy himself, and is the frequent cause of unhappiness in others. Visitors and questions should
never be met with a clouded brow. A cheerful "good-morning" goes a great way oftentimes. Many
library visitors come in a complaining mood--it may be from long waiting to be served, or from
mistake in supplying them with the wrong books, or from errors in charging their accounts,
or from some fancied neglect or slight, or from any other cause. The way to meet such ill-humored
or offended readers is to gently explain the matter, with that "soft answer which turneth away
wrath." Many a foolish and useless altercation may thus be avoided, and the complainant restored
to cheerfulness, if not to courtesy; whereas, if the librarian were to meet the case with a
sharp or haughty answer, it would probably end without satisfaction on either side. Whatever
you do, never permit yourself to be irritable, and resolve never to be irritated. It will make
you unhappy, and will breed irritation in others. Cheerfulness under all circumstances, however
difficult, is the duty and the interest of the librarian. Thus he will cultivate successfully
an obliging disposition, which is a prime requisite to his success with the public and his
usefulness as a librarian.

It ought not to be requisite to insist upon good health as a condition precedent for any one
aspiring to be a librarian. So very much depends upon this, that it should form a part of the
conscientious duty of every one to acquire and maintain a sound condition of physical health,
as a most important adjunct of a thoroughly sound and healthy condition of the mind. This is
easier than most persons are aware. If we except inherited constitutional weaknesses, or maladies
of a serious character, there is almost no one who is not able by proper diet, regimen, and
daily exercise, to maintain a degree of health which will enable him to use his brain to its
full working capacity. It demands an intelligent and watchful care of the daily regimen, so
that only simple and wholesome food and drink may be taken into the system, and what is equally
important, adequate sleep, and habitual moderate exercise. No one can maintain perfect health
without breathing good unadulterated air, and exercising in it with great frequency. One's
walks to and from the library may be sufficient to give this, and it is well to have the motive
of such a walk, since exercise taken for the mere purpose of it is of far less value. The habit
of taking drugs, or going to a doctor for every little malady, is most pernicious. Every one,
and especially a librarian, who is supposed (however erroneously) to know everything, should
know more of his own constitution than any physician. With a few judicious experiments in daily
regimen, and a little abstinence now and then, he can subdue head-aches, catarrhs and digestive
troubles, and by exercising an intelligent will, can generally prevent their recurrence. If
one finds himself in the morning in a state of languor and lassitude, be sure he has abused
some physical function, and apply a remedy. An invalid will make a poorly equipped librarian.
How can a dyspeptic who dwells in the darkness of a disease, be a guiding light to the multitudes
who beset him every hour? There are few callings demanding as much mental and physical soundness
and alertness as the care of a public library.

Sound common sense is as essential to the librarian as sound health. He should always take
the practical straightforward view of every item of library business and management, remembering
that the straight road is always the shortest way between two points. While he may be full
of ideas, he should be neither an idealist nor a dreamer. In library methods, the cardinal
requisites to be aimed at, are utility and convenience. A person of the most perfect education,
and the highest literary attainments, but destitute of common sense, will not succeed in the
conduct of a library. That intuitive judgment, which sees the reason of everything at a glance,
and applies the proper agencies to the case in hand, is wanting in his composition. Multitudes
of emergencies arise in library service, where the prompt and practical sense of the librarian
is required to settle a dispute, adjust a difficulty, or to direct what is to be done in some
arrangement or re-arrangement of books, or some library appliance or repair. In such cases,
the unpractical or impracticable man will be very likely to decide wrongly, choosing the inconvenient
method instead of the convenient, the more costly instead of the more economical, the laborious
in place of the obvious and easy; in short, some way of doing the work or settling the difficulty
which will not permit it to stay settled, or will require the work to be done over again. The
man of common-sense methods, on the other hand, will at once see the end from the beginning,
anticipate every difficulty, and decide upon the proper course without trouble or hesitation,
finding his judgment fully vindicated by the result.

The librarian in whom the quality of common sense is well developed will be ever ready to devise
or to accept improvements in library methods. Never a slave to "red tape," he will promptly
cut it wherever and whenever it stands in the way of the readiest service of books and information
to all comers.

Another quality which every librarian or assistant in a library should possess is a thorough
love of his work. He should cherish a noble enthusiasm for the success and usefulness of the
institution with which he has chosen to be associated. Nor should this spirit be by any means
limited to the literary and scientific aid which he is enabled to extend to others, nor to
the acquisition of the knowledge requisite to meet the endless inquiries that are made of him.
He should take as much interest in restoring a broken binding, or in seeing that a torn leaf
is repaired, as in informing a great scholar what the library contains upon any subject.

No one who is listless or indifferent in the discharge of daily duties is fit for a place in
a public library. There should be an esprit de corps, a zeal for his profession, which will
lead him to make almost any sacrifice of outside interests to become proficient in it. Thus
only will he render himself indispensable in his place, and do the greatest amount of service
to the greatest number of readers. I have seen employees in libraries so utterly careless of
what belongs to their vocation, as to let books, totally unfit for use, ragged or broken, or
with plates loosened, ready to drop out and disappear, go back to the shelves unrepaired, to
pursue the downward road toward destruction. And I have been in many libraries in which the
books upon the shelves exhibited such utter want of care, such disarrangement, such tumbling
about and upside-down chaos, and such want of cleanliness, as fairly to make one's heart ache.
In some cases this may have been due in great part to unwise free admission of the public to
the shelves, and consequent inevitable disorder; in others, it may be partially excused by
the librarian's absolute want of the needful help or time, to keep the library in order; but
in others, it was too apparent that the librarian in charge took no interest in the condition
of the books. Too many librarians (at least of the past, however it may now be) have been of
the class described by Dr. Poole, the Chicago librarian. He said that library trustees too
often appeared to think that anybody almost would do for a librarian; men who have failed in
everything else, broken-down clergymen, or unsuccessful teachers, and the like.

Passing now to other needful qualifications of librarians and library assistants, let me say
that one of the foremost is accuracy. Perhaps I have before this remarked that exact accuracy
is one of the rarest of human qualities. Even an approximation to it is rare, and absolute
accuracy is still rarer. Beware of the person who is sure of every thing--who retails to you
a conversation he has heard, affecting to give the exact words of a third person, or who quotes
passages in verse or in prose, with glib assurance, as the production of some well-known writer.
The chances are ten to one that the conversation is mainly manufactured in the brain of the
narrator, and that the quotation is either not written by the author to whom it is attributed,
or else is a travesty of his real language. It is Lord Byron who tells of that numerous class
of sciolists whom one finds everywhere--

    "With just enough of learning to misquote."

The books one reads abound in erroneous dates, mistaken names, garbled extracts, and blundering
quotations. So much the more important is it to the librarian, who is so continually drawn
upon for correct information upon every subject, to make sure of his facts, before communicating
them. When (as frequently happens) he has no way of verifying them, he should report them,
not as his own conclusions, but on the authority of the book or periodical where found. This
will relieve him of all responsibility, if they turn out to be erroneous. Whenever I find a
wrong date or name in a printed book, or an erroneous reference in the index, or a mis-spelled
word, I always pencil the correct date, or name, or page of reference in the margin. This I
do as a matter of instinct, as well as of duty, for the benefit of future inquirers, so that
they may not be misled. I speak here of errors which are palpable, or of the inaccuracy of
which I have positive knowledge; if in doubt, I either let the matter go entirely, or write
a query in pencil at the place, with the presumed correct substitute appended.

Never be too sure of what you find in books; but prove all things and hold fast to those only
which you find to be beyond dispute. Thus will you save yourself from falling into many errors,
and from recanting many opinions. It is the method of ordinary education to take everything
for granted; it is the method of science to take nothing for granted.

I may refer here to another rule always to be observed, and pertaining to the theme of strict
accuracy in your daily work. That is, the necessity of carefully examining every piece of work
you may have done, before it leaves your hands, for the purpose of correcting errors. All of
us are not only liable to make mistakes, but all of us do make them; and if any one has a conceit
of his own accuracy, the surest way to take it out of him is to let him serve an apprenticeship
in some library, where there is competent revision of all the labor performed. There are multitudes
of assistants in libraries who cannot write a letter, even, without making one or more errors.
How often do you leave out a word in your writing experience, which may change the meaning
of a whole sentence? So, in writing titles, whether for the catalogue, or for a library order,
or for the information of some inquirer, you are liable to make errors of date, or edition,
or place of publication, or size, or to misplace or omit or substitute some word in the description
of the book. There is nothing in the world quite so easy as to be mistaken: and the only remedy
(and it is an all-essential one) is to go over every line and every word of what you have written,
before it leaves your hands. As second thoughts are proverbially best, so a second careful
glance over a piece of writing will almost always reveal some error or omission to be corrected.
Think of the mortification you must feel at finding an unverified piece of work returned upon
your hands, with several glaring mistakes marked by the reviser! Think, on the other hand,
of the inward satisfaction experienced when you have done your best, written and revised your
own work, and found it always passed as perfect. I have tried many persons by many tests, and
while I have found a great number who were industrious, intelligent, zealous, conscientious,
good-tempered, and expeditious, I have found scarcely one who was always accurate. One of the
rarest things in a library is to find an assistant who has an unerring sense of the French
accents. This knowledge, to one expert in that language, even if he does not speak it, should
be as intuitive as the art of spelling correctly, either in English or French. He should write
the proper accent over a letter just as infallibly as he writes the proper letters in a word.
But, strange to say, it is very common, even with good French scholars (in the book-sense or
literary sense of scholarship) to find them putting the acute accent for the grave over a vowel,
or the grave instead of the acute, or omitting the circumflex accent entirely, and so on.

Every one commits errors, but the wise man is he who learns by his mistakes, and applies the
remedy. The best remedy (as I said in the case of memory in another chapter,) is to cultivate
a habit of trained attention in whatever we do. Yet many people (and I am afraid we must say
most people) go on through life, making the same blunders, and repeating them. It appears as
if the habit of inaccuracy were innate in the human race, and only to be reformed by the utmost
painstaking, and even with the aid of that, only by a few. I have had to observe and correct
such numberless errors in the work of well-educated, adult, and otherwise accomplished persons,
as filled me with despair. Yet there is no more doubt of the improvability of the average mind,
however inaccurate at the start, than of the power of the will to correct other bad habits
into which people unconsciously fall.

One of the requisites of a successful librarian is a faculty of order and system, applied throughout
all the details of library administration. Without these, the work will be performed in a hap-hazard,
slovenly manner, and the library itself will tend to become a chaos. Bear in mind the great
extent and variety of the objects which come under the care of the librarian, all of which
are to be classified and reduced to order. These include not only books upon every earthly
subject (and very many upon unearthly ones) but a possibly wide range of newspapers and periodicals,
a great mass of miscellaneous pamphlets, sometimes of maps and charts, of manuscripts and broadsides,
and frequently collections of engravings, photographs, and other pictures, all of which come
in to form a part of most libraries. This great complexity of material, too, exhibits only
the physical aspect of the librarian's labors. There are, besides, the preparation, arrangement
and continuation of the catalogue, in its three or more forms, the charging and crediting of
the books in circulation, the searching of many book lists for purchases, the library bills
and accounts, the supervision and revision of the work of assistants, the library correspondence,
often requiring wide researches to answer inquiries, the continual aid to readers, and a multitude
of minor objects of attention quite too numerous to name. Is it any over-statement of the case
to say that the librarian who has to organize and provide for all this physical and intellectual
labor, should be systematic and orderly in a high degree?

That portion of his responsible task which pertains to the arrangement and classification of
books has been elsewhere treated. But there is required in addition, a faculty of arranging
his time, so as to meet seasonably the multifarious drafts upon it. He should early learn not
only the supreme value of moments, but how to make all the library hours fruitful of results.
To this end the time should be apportioned with careful reference to each department of library
service. One hour may be set for revising one kind of work of assistants; another for a different
one; another for perusing sale catalogues, and marking desiderata to be looked up in the library
catalogue; another for researches in aid of readers or correspondents; still another for answering
letters on the many subjects about which librarians are constantly addressed; and still another
for a survey of all the varied interests of the library and its frequenters, to see what features
of the service need strengthening, what improvements can be made, what errors corrected, and
how its general usefulness can be increased. So to apportion one's time as to get out of the
day (which is all too short for what is to be done in it) the utmost of accomplishment is a
problem requiring much skill, as well as the ability to profit by experience. One has always
to be subject to interruptions--and these must be allowed for, and in some way made up for.
Remember, when you have lost valuable time with some visitor whose claims to your attention
are paramount, that when to-morrow comes one should take up early the arrears of work postponed,
and make progress with them, even though unable to finish them.

Another suggestion; proper system in the management and control of one's time demands that
none of it be absorbed by trifles or triflers; and so every librarian must indispensably know
how to get rid of bores. One may almost always manage to effect this without giving offense,
and at the same time without wasting any time upon them, which is the one thing needful. The
bore is commonly one who, having little or nothing to do, inflicts himself upon the busy persons
of his acquaintance, and especially upon the ones whom he credits with knowing the most--to
wit, the librarians. Receive him courteously, but keep on steadily at the work you are doing
when he enters. If you are skilful, you can easily do two things at once, for example, answer
your idler friend or your bore, and revise title-cards, or mark a catalogue, or collate a book,
or look up a quotation, or write a letter, at the same time. Never lose your good humor, never
say that your time is valuable, or that you are very busy; never hint at his going away; but
never quit your work, answer questions cheerfully, and keep on, allowing nothing to take your
eyes off your business. By and by he will take the hint, if not wholly pachydermatous, and
go away of his own accord. By pursuing this course I have saved infinite time, and got rid
of infinite bores, by one and the same process.

The faculty of organizing one's work is essential, in order to efficiency and accomplishment.
If you do not have a plan and adhere to it, if you let this, that, and the other person interrupt
you with trifling gossip, or unnecessary requests, you will never get ahead of your work; on
the contrary, your work will always get ahead of you. The same result will follow if you interrupt
yourself, by yielding to the temptation of reading just a page or a paragraph of something
that attracts your eye while at work. This dissipation of time, to say nothing of its unfair
appropriation of what belongs to the library, defeats the prompt accomplishment of the work
in hand, and fosters the evil habit of scattering your forces, in idleness and procrastination.

It ought not to be needful to urge habits of neatness and the love of order upon candidates
for places in libraries. How much a neat and carefully arranged shelf of books appeals to one's
taste, I need not say, nor urge the point how much an orderly and neatly kept room, or desk,
or table adds to one's comfort. The librarian who has the proper spirit of his calling should
take pains to make the whole library look neat and attractive, to have a place for everything,
and everything in its place. This, with adequate space existing, will be found easier than
to have the books and other material scattered about in confusion, thus requiring much more
time to find them when wanted. A slovenly-kept library is certain to provoke public criticism,
and this always tells to the disadvantage of the librarian; while a neatly kept, carefully
arranged collection of books is not only pleasing to the eye, but elicits favorable judgment
from all visitors.

Among the qualities that should enter into the composition of a successful librarian must be
reckoned an inexhaustible patience. He will be sorely tried in his endeavors to satisfy his
own ideals, and sometimes still more sorely in his efforts to satisfy the public. Against the
mistakes and short-comings of assistants, the ignorance of many readers, and the unreasonable
expectations of others, the hamperings of library authorities, and the frequently unfounded
criticisms of the press, he should arm himself with a patience and equanimity that are unfailing.
When he knows he is right, he should never be disturbed at complaint, nor suffer a too sensitive
mood to ruffle his feelings. When there is any foundation for censure, however slight, he should
learn by it and apply the remedy. The many and varied characters who come within the comprehensive
sphere of the librarian necessarily include people of all tempers and dispositions, as well
as of every degree of culture. To be gracious and courteous to all is his interest as well
as his duty. With the ignorant he will often have to exercise a vast amount of patience, but
he should never betray a supercilious air, as though looking down upon them from the height
of his own superior intelligence. To be always amiable toward inferiors, superiors, and equals,
is to conciliate the regard of all. Courtesy costs so little, and makes so large a return in
proportion to the investment, that it is surprising not to find it universal. Yet it is so
far from being so that we hear people praising one whose manners are always affable, as if
he were deserving of special credit for it, as an exception to the general rule. It is frequently
observed that a person of brusque address or crusty speech begets crustiness in others. There
are subtle currents of feeling in human intercourse, not easy to define, but none the less
potent in effect. A person of marked suavity of speech and bearing radiates about him an atmosphere
of good humor, which insensibly influences the manners and the speech of others.

There will often come into a public library a man whose whole manner is aggressive and over-bearing,
who acts and talks as if he had a right to the whole place, including the librarian. No doubt,
being a citizen, he has every right, except the right to violate the rules--or to make himself
disagreeable. The way to meet him is to be neither aggressive, nor submissive and deferential,
but with a cool and pleasant courtesy, ignoring any idea of unpleasant feeling on your part.
You will thus at least teach a lesson in good manners, which may or may not be learned, according
to circumstances and the hopeful or hopeless character of the pupil.

Closely allied to the virtue of patience, is that of unfailing tact. This will be found an
important adjunct in the administration of a public library. How to meet the innumerable inquiries
made of him with just the proper answer, saying neither too much, nor too little, to be civil
to all, without needless multiplication of words, this requires one to hold his faculties well
in hand, never to forget himself, and to show that no demand whatever can vex or fluster him.
The librarian should know how, or learn how to adapt himself to all readers, and how to aid
their researches without devoting much time to each. This requires a fine quality of tact,
of adapting one's self quickly to the varied circumstances of the case in hand. One who has
it well developed will go through the manifold labors and interviews and annoyances of the
day without friction, while one who is without tact will be worried and fretted until life
seems to him a burden.

Need I mention, after all that has been said of the exacting labors that continually wait upon
the librarian, that he should be possessed both of energy and untiring industry? By the very
nature of the calling to which he is dedicated, he is pledged to earnest and thorough work
in it. He cannot afford to be a trifler or a loiterer on the way, but must push on continually.
He should find time for play, it is true, and for reading for his own recreation and instruction,
but that time should be out of library hours. And a vigilant and determined economy of time
in library hours will be found a prime necessity. I have dwelt elsewhere upon the importance
of choosing the shortest methods in every piece of work to be accomplished. Equally important
is it to cultivate economy of speech, or the habit of condensing instructions to assistants,
and answers to inquiries into the fewest words. A library should never be a circumlocution
office. The faculty of condensed expression, though somewhat rare, can be cultivated.

In the relations existing between librarian and assistants there should be mutual confidence
and support. All are equally interested in the credit and success of the institution which
engages their services, and all should labor harmoniously to that end. Loyalty to one's employers
is both the duty and the interest of the employed: and the reciprocal duty of faithfulness
to those employed, and interest in their improvement and success should mark the intercourse
of the librarian with his assistants. He should never be too old nor too wise to learn, and
should welcome suggestions from every intelligent aid. I have suggested the importance of an
even temper in the relations between librarians and readers; and it is equally important as
between all those associated in the administration of a library. Every one has faults and weaknesses;
and those encountered in others will be viewed with the most charity by those who are duly
conscious of their own. Every one makes mistakes, and these are often provoking or irritating
to one who knows better; but a mild and pleasant explanation of the error is far more likely
to lead to amendment, than a sharp reproof, leaving hard feeling or bitterness behind. Under
no circumstances is peevishness or passion justifiable. Library assistants in their bearing
toward each other, should suppress all feelings of censoriousness, fault-finding or jealousy,
if they have them, in favor of civility and good manners, if not of good fellowship. They are
all public servants engaged in a common cause, aiming at the enlightenment and improvement
of the community; they should cherish a just pride in being selected for this great service,
and to help one another in every step of the work, should be their golden rule. Everything
should be done for the success and usefulness of the library, and all personal considerations
should be merged in public ones.

Turning now to what remains of suggestion regarding the qualities which should enter into the
character, or form a part of the equipment of a librarian, let me urge the importance of his
possessing a truly liberal and impartial mind. It is due to all who frequent a public library
to find all those in charge ready and willing to aid their researches in whatever direction
they may lie. Their attitude should be one of constant and sincere open-mindedness. They are
to remember that it is the function of the library to supply the writings of all kinds of authors,
on all sides of all questions. In doing this, it is no part of a librarian's function to interpose
any judgments of his own upon the authors asked for. He has no right as a librarian to be an
advocate of any theories, or a propagandist of any opinions. His attitude should be one of
strict and absolute impartiality. A public library is the one common property of all, the one
neutral ground where all varieties of character, and all schools of opinion meet and mingle.
Within its hallowed precincts, sacred to literature and science, the voice of controversy should
be hushed. While the librarian may and should hold his own private opinions with firmness and
entire independence, he should keep them private--as regards the frequenters of the library.
He may, for example, be profoundly convinced of the truth of the Christian religion; and he
is called on, we will suppose, for books attacking Christianity, like Thomas Paine's "Age of
Reason," or Robert G. Ingersoll's lectures on "Myth and Miracle." It is his simple duty to
supply the writers asked for, without comment, for in a public library, Christian and Jew,
Mahometan and Agnostic, stand on the same level of absolute equality. The library has the Koran,
and the Book of Mormon, as well as the Scriptures of the Old and New Testament, and one is
to be as freely supplied as the other. A library is an institution of universal range--of encyclopaedic
knowledge, which gathers in and dispenses to all comers, the various and conflicting opinions
of all writers upon religion, science, politics, philosophy, and sociology. The librarian may
chance to be an ardent Republican or a zealous Democrat; but in either case, he should show
as much alacrity in furnishing readers with W. J. Bryan's book "The First Battle," as with
McKinley's speeches, or the Republican Hand-Book. A library is no place for dogmatism; the
librarian is pledged, by the very nature of his profession, which is that of a dispenser of
all knowledge--not of a part of it--to entire liberality, and absolute impartiality. Remembering
the axiom that all errors may be safely tolerated, while reason is left free to combat them,
he should be ever ready to furnish out of the intellectual arsenal under his charge, the best
and strongest weapons to either side in any conflict of opinion.

It will have been gathered from what has gone before, in recapitulation of the duties and responsibilities
of the librarian's calling, that it is one demanding a high order of talent. The business of
successfully conducting a public library is complex and difficult. It is full of never-ending
detail, and the work accomplished does not show for what it is really worth, except in the
eyes of the more thoughtful and discerning observers.

I may here bring into view some of the drawbacks and discouragements incident to the librarian's
vocation, together with an outline of the advantages which belong to it.

In the first place, there is little money in it. No one who looks upon the acquisition of money
as one of the chief aims of life, should think for a moment of entering on a librarian's career.
The prizes in the profession are few--so few indeed, as to be quite out of the question for
most aspirants. The salaries paid in subordinate positions are very low in most libraries,
and even those of head-librarians are not such that one can lay up money on them. A lady assistant
librarian in one city said she had found that one of a librarian's proper qualifications was
to be able to live on two meals a day. This doubtless was a humorous exaggeration, but it is
true that the average salaries hitherto paid in our public libraries, with few exceptions,
do not quite come up to those of public school teachers, taking the various grades into account.
Most of the newly formed libraries are poor, and have to be economical. But there is some reason
to hope that as libraries multiply and their unspeakable advantages become more fully appreciated,
the standard of compensation for all skilled librarians will rise. I say skilled, because training
and experience are the leading elements which command the better salaries, in this, as in other
professions.

Another drawback to be recognized in the librarian's calling, is that there are peculiar trials
and vexations connected with it. There are almost no limits to the demands made upon the knowledge
and the time of the librarian. In other professions, teaching for example, there are prescribed
and well-defined routines of the instruction to be given, and the teacher who thoroughly masters
this course, and brings the pupils through it creditably, has nothing to do beyond. The librarian,
on the other hand, must be, as it were, a teacher of all sciences and literatures at once.
The field to be covered by the wants of readers, and the inquiries that he is expected to answer,
are literally illimitable. He cannot rest satisfied with what he has already learned, however
expert or learned he may have become; but he must keep on learning forevermore. The new books
that are continually flooding him, the new sciences or new developments of old ones that arise,
must be so far assimilated that he can give some account of the scope of all of them to inquiring
readers.

In the third place, there are special annoyances in the service of a public, which includes
always some inconsiderate and many ignorant persons, and these will frequently try one's patience,
however angelic and forbearing. So, too, the short-comings of library assistants or associates
may often annoy him, but as all these trials have been before referred to, it may be added
that they are not peculiar to library service, but are liable to occur in the profession of
teaching or in any other.

In the next place, the peculiar variety and great number of the calls incessantly made upon
the librarian's knowledge, constitute a formidable draft upon any but the strongest brain.
There is no escape from these continual drafts upon his nervous energy for one who has deliberately
chosen to serve in a public library. And he will sometimes find, wearied as he often must be
with many cares and a perfect flood of questions, that the most welcome hour of the day is
the hour of closing the library.

Another of the librarian's vexations is frequently the interference with his proper work by
the library authorities. Committees or trustees to oversee the management and supervise expenditures
are necessary to any public library. Sometimes they are quick-sighted and intelligent persons,
and recognize the importance of letting the librarian work out everything in his own way, when
once satisfied that they have got a competent head in charge. But there are sometimes men on
a board of library control who are self-conceited and pragmatical, thinking that they know
everything about how a library should be managed, when in fact, they are profoundly ignorant
of the first rudiments of library science. Such men will sometimes overbear their fellows,
who may be more intelligent, but not so self-asserting, and so manage as to overrule the best
and wisest plans, or the most expedient methods, and vex the very soul of the librarian. In
such cases the only remedy is patience and tact. Some day, what has been decided wrongly may
be reversed, or what has been denied the librarian may be granted, through the conversion of
a minority of the trustees into a majority, by the gentle suasion and skilful reasoning of
the librarian.

There are other drawbacks and discomforts in the course of a librarian's duties which have
been referred to in dealing with the daily work under his charge. There remains the fact that
the profession is no bed of roses, but a laborious and exacting calling, the price of success
in which is an unremitting industry, and energy inexhaustible. But these will not appear very
formidable requisites to those who have a native love of work, and it is a fact not to be doubted
that work of some kind is the only salvation of every human creature.

Upon the whole, if the calling of the librarian involves many trials and vexations, it has
also many notable compensations. Foremost among these is to be reckoned the fact that it opens
more and wider avenues to intellectual culture than any other profession whatever. This comes
in a two-fold way: first, through the stimulus to research given by the incessant inquiries
of readers, and by the very necessity of his being, as a librarian; and secondly, by the rare
facilities for investigation and improvement supplied by the ample and varied stores of the
library always immediately at hand. Other scholars can commonly command but few books, unless
able to possess a large private library: their researches in the public one are hampered by
the rule that no works of reference can be withdrawn, and that constitutes a very large and
essential class, constantly needed by every scholar and writer. The librarian, on the other
hand, has them all at his elbow.

In the next place, there are few professions which are in themselves so attractive as librarianship.
Its tendency is both to absorb and to satisfy the intellectual faculties. No where else is
the sense of continual growth so palpable; in no other field of labor is such an enlargement
of the bounds of one's horizon likely to be found. Compare it with the profession of teaching.
In that, the mind is chained down to a rigorous course of imparting instruction in a narrow
and limited field. One must perforce go on rehearsing the same rudiments of learning, grinding
over the same Latin gerunds, hearing the same monotonous recitations, month after month, and
year after year. This continual threshing over of old straw has its uses, but to an ardent
and active mind, it is liable to become very depressing. Such a mind would rather be kept on
the qui vive of activity by a volley of questions fired at him every hour in a library, than
to grind forever in an intellectual tread-mill, with no hope of change and very little of relief.
The very variety of the employments which fill up the library hours, the versatility required
in the service, contributes to it a certain zest which other professions lack.

Again, the labors of the librarian bring him into an intimate knowledge of a wide range of
books, or at least an acquaintance with authors and titles far more extensive than can be acquired
by most persons. The reading of book catalogues is a great and never-ending fascination to
one who has a love for books. The information thus acquired of the mighty range of the world's
literature and science is of inestimable value. Most of it, if retained in a retentive memory,
will enable its possessor to answer multitudes of the questions continually put to the librarian.

Then, too, the service of a public library is a valuable school for the study of human nature.
One comes in contact with scholars, men of business, authors, bright young people, journalists,
professional men and cultured women, to an extent unequaled by the opportunities of any other
calling. This variety of intercourse tends to broaden one's sympathies, to strengthen his powers
of observation, to cultivate habits of courtesy, to develop the faculty of adapting himself
to all persons--qualities which contribute much to social interest and success. The discipline
of such an intercourse may sometimes make out of a silent and bashful recluse, a ready and
engaging adept in conversation, able to command the attention and conciliate the regard of
all. Farther than this, one brought into so wide a circle of communication with others, cannot
fail to learn something from at least some among them, and so to receive knowledge as well
as to impart it. The curious and diverse elements of character brought out in such intercourse
will make their impress, and may have their value. All these many facilities for intellectual
intercourse both with books and with men, contribute directly to keep the librarian in contact
with all the great objects of human interest. They supply an unfailing stimulus to his intellectual
and moral nature. They give any active-minded person rare facilities, not only for the acquisition,
but for the communication of ideas. And there is one avenue for such communication that is
peculiarly open to one whose mind is stored with the ripe fruits of reading and observation.
I mean the field of authorship--not necessarily the authorship of books, but of writing in
the form of essays, reviews, lectures, stories or contributions to the periodical press. There
are in every community literary societies, clubs, and evening gatherings, where such contributions
are always in demand, and always welcomed, in exact proportion to their inherent interest and
value. Such avenues for the communication of one's thought are of great and sometimes permanent
advantage. The knowledge which we acquire is comparatively barren, until it is shared with
others. And whether this be in an appreciative circle of listeners, or in the press, it gives
a certain stimulus and reward to the thinker and writer, which nothing else can impart. To
convey one's best thought to the world is one of the purest and highest of intellectual pleasures.

Let me add that there are two sides to the question of authorship, as concerns librarians.
On the one hand, their advantages for entering that field are undoubtedly superior, both from
the ready command of the most abundant material, and from experience in its use. On the other
hand, while authorship may be said to be the most besetting temptation of the librarian, it
is one that should be steadily resisted whenever it encroaches on the time and attention due
to library duties. If he makes it a rule to write nothing and to study nothing for his own
objects during library hours, he is safe. Some years since it was a common subject of reproach
regarding the librarians of several university libraries in England that they were so engaged
in writing books, that no scholar could get at them for aid in his literary researches. The
librarians and assistants employed in the British Museum Library, where the hours of service
are short, have found time to produce numerous contributions to literature. Witness the works,
as authors and editors, of Sir Henry Ellis, Antonio Panizzi, Dr. Richard Garnett, Edward Edwards,
J. Winter Jones, Thomas Watts, George Smith, and others. And in America, the late Justin Winsor
was one of the most prolific and versatile of authors, while John Fiske, once assistant librarian
at Harvard, Reuben A. Guild, William F. Poole, George H. Moore, J. N. Larned, Frederick Saunders
and others have been copious contributors to the press.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a retrospective view of what has been said in respect to the qualifications of a librarian,
it may appear that I have insisted upon too high a standard, and have claimed that he should
be possessed of every virtue under heaven. I freely admit that I have aimed to paint the portrait
of the ideal librarian; and I have done it in order to show what might be accomplished, rather
than what has been accomplished. To set one's mark high--higher even than we are likely to
reach, is the surest way to attain real excellence in any vocation. It is very true that it
is not given to mortals to achieve perfection: but it is none the less our business to aim
at it, and the higher the ideal, the nearer we are likely to come to a notable success in the
work we have chosen.

Librarianship furnishes one of the widest fields for the most eminent attainments. The librarian,
more than any other person whatever, is brought into contact with those who are hungering and
thirsting after knowledge. He should be able to satisfy those longings, to lead inquirers in
the way they should go, and to be to all who seek his assistance a guide, philosopher and friend.
Of all the pleasures which a generous mind is capable of enjoying, that of aiding and enlightening
others is one of the finest and most delightful. To learn continually for one's self is a noble
ambition, but to learn for the sake of communicating to others, is a far nobler one. In fact,
the librarian becomes most widely useful by effacing himself, as it were, in seeking to promote
the intelligence of the community in which he lives. One of the best librarians in the country
said that such were the privileges and opportunities of the profession, that one might well
afford to live on bread and water for the sake of being a librarian, provided one had no family
to support.

There is a new and signally marked advance in recent years, in the public idea of what constitutes
a librarian. The old idea of a librarian was that of a guardian or keeper of books--not a diffuser
of knowledge, but a mere custodian of it. This idea had its origin in ages when books were
few, were printed chiefly in dead languages, and rendered still more dead by being chained
to the shelves or tables of the library. The librarian might be a monk, or a professor, or
a priest, or a doctor of law, or theology, or medicine, but in any case his function was to
guard the books, and not to dispense them. Those who resorted to the library were kept at arm's
length, as it were, and the fewer there were who came, the better the grim or studious custodian
was pleased. Every inquiry which broke the profound silence of the cloistered library was a
kind of rude interruption, and when it was answered, the perfunctory librarian resumed his
reading or his studies. The institution appeared to exist, not for the benefit of the people,
but for that of the librarian; or for the benefit, besides, of a few sequestered scholars,
like himself, and any wide popular use of it would have been viewed as a kind of profanation.

We have changed all that in the modern world, and library service is now one of the busiest
occupations in the whole range of human enterprise. One cannot succeed in the profession, if
his main idea is that a public library is a nice and easy place where one may do one's own
reading and writing to the best advantage. A library is an intellectual and material work-shop,
in which there is no room for fossils nor for drones. My only conception of a useful library
is a library that is used--and the same of a librarian. He should be a lover of books--but
not a book-worm. If his tendencies toward idealism are strong, he should hold them in check
by addicting himself to steady, practical, every-day work. While careful of all details, he
should not be mastered by them. If I have sometimes seemed to dwell upon trifling or obvious
suggestions as to temper, or conduct, or methods, let it be remembered that trifles make up
perfection, and that perfection is no trifle.

I once quoted the saying that "the librarian who reads is lost"; but it would be far truer
to say that the librarian who does not read is lost; only he should read wisely and with a
purpose. He should make his reading helpful in giving him a wide knowledge of facts, of thoughts,
and of illustrations, which will come perpetually in play in his daily intercourse with an
inquiring public.

CHAPTER 14.

SOME OF THE USES OF LIBRARIES.

Let us now consider the subject of the uses of public libraries to schools and those connected
with them. Most town and city libraries are supported, like the free schools, by the public
money, drawn from the tax-payers, and supposed to be expended for the common benefit of all
the people. It results that one leading object of the library should be to acquire such a collection
of books as will be in the highest degree useful to all. And especially should the wants of
the younger generation be cared for, since they are always not only nearly one half of the
community, but they are also to become the future citizens of the republic. What we learn in
youth is likely to make a more marked and lasting impression than what we may acquire in later
years. And the public library should be viewed as the most important and necessary adjunct
of the school, in the instruction and improvement of the young. Each is adapted to supply what
the other lacks. The school supplies oral instruction and public exercises in various departments
of learning; but it has few or no books, beyond the class text-books which are used in these
instructions. The library, on the other hand, is a silent school of learning, free to all,
and supplying a wide range of information, in books adapted to every age. It thus supplements,
and in proportion to the extent and judicious choice of its collections, helps to complete
that education, which the school falls short of. In this view, we see the great importance
of making sure that the public library has not only a full supply of the best books in every
field, avoiding (as previously urged) the bad or the inferior ones, but also that it has the
best juvenile and elementary literature in ample supply. This subject of reading for the young
has of late years come into unprecedented prominence. Formerly, and even up to the middle of
our century, very slight attention was paid to it, either by authors or readers. Whole generations
had been brought up on the New England Primer, with its grotesque wood-cuts, and antique theology
in prose and verse, with a few moral narratives in addition, as solemn as a meeting-house,
like the "Dairyman's Daughter," the "History of Sandford and Merton," or "The Shepherd of Salisbury
Plain." Very dreary and melancholy do such books appear to the frequenters of our modern libraries,
filled as they now are with thousands of volumes of lively and entertaining juvenile books.

The transition from the old to the new in this class of literature was through the Sunday-school
and religious tract society books, professedly adapted to the young. While some of these had
enough of interest to be fairly readable, if one had no other resource, the mass were irredeemably
stale and poor. The mawkishness of the sentiment was only surpassed by the feebleness of the
style. At last, weary of the goody-goody and artificial school of juvenile books, which had
been produced for generations, until a surfeit of it led to something like a nausea in the
public mind, there came a new type of writers for the young, who at least began to speak the
language of reason. The dry bones took on some semblance of life and of human nature, and boys
and girls were painted as real boys and genuine girls, instead of lifeless dolls and manikins.
The reformation went on, until we now have a world of books for the young to choose from, very
many of which are fresh and entertaining.

But the very wealth and redundancy of such literature is a new embarrassment to the librarian,
who must indispensably make a selection, since no library can have or ought to have it all.
Recurring to the function of the public library as the coadjutor of the school, let us see
what classes of books should form essential parts of its stores.

1. As geography, or an account of the earth on which we live, is a fundamental part of education,
the library should possess a liberal selection of the best books in that science. The latest
general gazetteer of the world, the best modern and a good ancient atlas, one or more of the
great general collections of voyages, a set of Baedeker's admirable and inexpensive guide books,
and descriptive works or travels in nearly all countries--those in America and Europe predominating--should
be secured. The scholars of all grades will thus be able to supplement their studies by ready
reference, and every part of the globe will lie open before them, as it were, by the aid of
the library.

2. The best and latest text-books in all the sciences, as geology, chemistry, natural history,
physics, botany, agriculture, mechanic arts, mathematics, mental and moral science, architecture,
fine arts, music, sociology, political science, etc., should be accessible.

3. Every important history, with all the latest manuals or elementary books in general and
national history should be found.

4. The great collections of biography, with separate lives of all noted characters, should
be provided.

5. Dictionaries, cyclopaedias, statistical annuals, and other books of reference will be needed
in abundance.

6. A small but select number of approved works in law, medicine, and theology should be embraced
in the library.

7. I need not add that the poets and novelists should be well represented, as that goes without
saying in all popular libraries.

And special attention should be paid to building up a collection of the best books for juvenile
readers, such as have passed the ordeal of good critical judgment among the librarians, as
eminently fit to be read. There are several useful catalogues of such reading, as: Caroline
M. Hewins' "Books for the Young," G. E. Hardy's "Five Hundred Books for the Young," and the
admirable "List of Books for Girls and Women" by Augusta H. Leypoldt and Geo. Iles, contributed
to by many experts, and copiously supplied with notes describing the scope and quality of the
books. The last two are published by the Library Bureau.

With this broad equipment of the best books in every field, and vigilance in constant exercise
to add fresh stores from the constantly appearing and often improved text-books in every science,
the library will be a treasury of knowledge both for teachers and pupils in the schools. And
the fact should not be overlooked, that there will be found as much growth for teachers as
for scholars in such a collection of books. Very few teachers, save those of well-furnished
minds and of much careful reading, are competent to guide their scholars into the highways
and byways of knowledge, as the librarian should be able to do.

To establish a relation of confidence and aid with teachers is the preliminary step to be taken
in order to make the library at once practically useful to them and to their scholars. In case
there are several public schools in charge of a general superintendent, that officer should
be first consulted, and tendered the free aid of the library and its librarian for himself
and the teachers. In some public libraries, the school superintendent is made an ex officio
member of the library board. Then suitable regulations should be mutually agreed upon, fixing
the number of books to be drawn on account of the schools at any one time, and the period of
return to the library. It is most usual to charge such books on teachers' cards, or account,
to fix responsibility, although the teachers loan them to the scholars at their option.

In places where there are no school libraries proper, the public library will need to provide
a goodly number of duplicates, in order to meet the special school demand. This, however, will
usually be of low-priced rather than costly books, as the elementary text-books do not draw
heavily upon library funds.

A very attractive feature in providing books for the young is the large number of illustrated
books now available to all libraries. All the kingdoms of nature are depicted in these introductory
manuals of science, rendering its pursuit more interesting, and cultivating the habits of observation
of form and of proportion, in the minds of the young. Pupils who have never accomplished anything
in school have been roused by interest in illustrated natural histories to take an eager interest
in learning all about birds and animals. This always leads on and up to other study, since
the mind that is once awakened to observation and to thought, needs only a slight guidance
to develop an unappeasable hunger for finding out all about things.

The ancient maxim that "it is only the first step that costs" is especially true in the great
art of education. It matters little what it is that first awakens the intellect--the great
fact is that it is awakened, and sleeps no more thenceforward. A mottled bird's egg, found
on the way to school, excites the little finder to ascertain the name of the bird that laid
it. The school or the teacher supplies no means of finding out, but the public library has
books upon birds, with colored plates of their eggs, and an eager search ensues, until the
young student is rewarded by finding the very bird, with its name, plumage, habits, size, and
season, all described. That child has taken an enormous step forward on the road to knowledge,
which will never be forgotten.

Instances might be multiplied indefinitely of such valuable aids to research, afforded by libraries,
all along the innumerable roads travelled by students of every age in search of information.
One of the most profitable of school exercises is to take up successively the great men and
notable women of the past, and, by the effective and practical aid of the libraries, to find
out what is best worth knowing about Columbus, Franklin, Walter Scott, Irving, Prescott, Bancroft,
Longfellow, Hawthorne, Whittier, Emerson, Lowell, Victor Hugo, or others too numerous to name.
Reading Longfellow's Evangeline will lead one to search out the history and geography of Acadia,
and so fix indelibly the practical facts concerned, as well as the imagery of a fine poem.
So in the notable events of history, if a study is made of the English Commonwealth, or the
French Revolution, or the war between the United States and England in 1812-15, the library
will supply the student with copious materials for illustration.

Not alone in the fields of science, history, and biography, but in the attractive fields of
literature, also, can the libraries aid and supplement the teachings of the school. A fine
poem, or a simple, humorous, or pathetic story, told with artless grace or notable literary
skill, when read aloud by a teacher in school, awakens a desire in many to have the same book
at home to read, re-read, and perhaps commit to memory the finer passages. What more inspiring
or pleasing reading than some of Longfellow's poems, or the Vicar of Wakefield, or Milton's
L'Allegro and Il Penseroso, or Saintine's Picciola, or selections from the poems of Holmes,
Whittier, Kipling, or Lowell? For all these and similar wants, the library has an unfailing supply.

As a practical illustration of the extensive, use of books by schools in some advanced communities,
I may note that Librarian Green, of the Worcester (Mass.) Public Library, said in 1891 that
his average daily account of the books loaned to schools in two busy winter months showed over
1,600 volumes thus in daily use. This too, was in addition to all that were drawn out by pupils
on their own independent cards as borrowers. Such a record speaks volumes.

In the same city, where the Massachusetts State Normal School is located, sixty-four per cent.
of the scholars visited the library to look up subjects connected with their studies.

A forcible argument for librarians taking an interest in reading for schools is that both parents
and teachers often neglect to see that the young get only proper books to read. The children
are themselves quite ignorant what to choose, and if left to themselves, are likely to choose
unwisely, and to read story papers or quite unimproving books. Their parents, busied as they
are, commonly give no thought to the matter, and are quite destitute of that knowledge of the
various classes of books which it is the province of the librarian to know and to discriminate.
Teachers themselves do not possess this special knowledge, except in rare instances, and have
to become far more conversant with libraries than is usual, in order to acquire it.

That the very young, left to themselves, will choose many bad or worthless books is shown in
the account of a principal of a school in San Francisco, who found that sixty per cent. of
the books drawn from the public library by pupils had been dime novels, or other worthless
literature. The wide prevalence of the dime novel evil appeared in the report of the reading
of 1,000 boys in a western New York city. Out of this number, 472 (or nearly one-half) were
in the habit of devouring this pernicious trash, procured in most cases by purchase at the
news stands. The matter was taken up by teachers, and, by wise direction and by aid of the
public library, the reading of these youthful candidates for citizenship was led into more
improving fields. To lead a mind in the formative stage from the low to the high, from tales
of wild adventure to the best stories for the young, is by no means difficult. Take a book
that you know is wholesome and entertaining, and it will be eagerly read by almost every one.
There is an endless variety of good books adapted to the most rudimentary capacity. Even young
minds can become interested in the works of standard writers, if the proper selection is made.
Wonderful is the stimulus which the reading of a purely written, fascinating book gives to
the young mind. It opens the way for more books and for infinite growth. All that is needed
is to set the youth in the right direction, and he will go forward with rapid strides of his
own accord. This teaching how to read is really the most profitable part of any education.
To recite endless lessons is not education: and one book eagerly read through, has often proved
more valuable than all the text-books that ever were printed.

THE USES OF THE LIBRARY TO THE UNIVERSITY.

Closely allied to the benefits derived from the library by the teachers and scholars in public
schools are its uses to all those engaged in the pursuit of higher education. For our colleges
and universities and their researches, the library must have all that we have suggested as
important for the schools, and a great deal more. The term university implies an education
as broad as the whole world of books can supply: yet we must here meet with limitations that
are inevitable. In this country we have to regret the application of the word "university"
to institutions where the training is only academical, or at the highest, collegiate. The university,
properly speaking, is an institution for the most advanced scholars or graduates of our colleges.
Just as the college takes up and carries forward the training of those who have been through
the academy, the seminary, or the high school, so it is the function of the university to carry
forward (we will not say complete) the education of the graduate of the college. No education
is ever completed: the doctor who has received the highest honors at the university has only
begun his education--for that is to go on through life--and who knows how far beyond?

Now the aid which a well equipped library can furnish to all these higher institutions of learning,
the academy, the seminary, the college, and the university, is quite incalculable. Their students
are constantly engaged upon themes which not only demand the text-books they study, but collateral
illustrations almost without number. The professors, too, who impart instruction, perpetually
need to be instructed themselves, with fuller knowledge upon the themes they are daily called
upon to elucidate. There is no text-book that can teach all, or anywhere near all there is
upon the subject it professes to cover. So the library, which has many books upon that subject,
comes in to supply its deficiencies. And the librarian is useful to the professors and students
just in proportion as he knows, not the contents, but the range of books upon each subject
sought to be investigated. Here is where the subject catalogue, or the dictionary catalogue,
combining the subjects and the authors under a single alphabet, comes into play. But, as no
catalogue of subjects was ever yet up to date in any considerable library, the librarian should
be able to supplement the catalogue by his own knowledge of later works in any line of inquiry.

The most profitable studies carried on in libraries are, beyond all question, what we may term
topical researches. To pursue one subject though many authorities is the true way to arrive
at comprehensive knowledge. And in this kind of research, the librarian ought to be better
equipped than any who frequent his library. Why? Simply because his business is bibliography;
which is not the business of learned professors, or other scholars who visit the library.

The late Librarian Winsor said that he considered the librarian's instruction far more valuable
than that of the specialist. And this may be owing largely to the point of view, as well as
to the training, of each. The specialist, perhaps, is an enthusiast or a devotee to his science,
and so apt to give undue importance to the details of it, or to magnify some one feature: the
librarian, on the other hand, who is nothing if not comprehensive, takes the larger view of
the wide field of literature on each subject, and his suggestions concerning sources of information
are correspondingly valuable.

In those constantly arising questions which form the subjects of essays or discussions in all
institutions of learning, the well-furnished library is an unfailing resource. The student
who finds his unaided mind almost a blank upon the topic given out for treatment, resorts at
once to the public library, searches catalogues, questions the librarian, and surrounds himself
with books and periodicals which may throw light upon it. He is soon master of facts and reasonings
which enable him to start upon a train of thought that bears fruit in an essay or discourse.
In fact, it may be laid down as an axiom, that nearly every new book that is written is indebted
to the library for most of its ideas, its facts, or its illustrations, so that libraries actually
beget libraries.

Some of the endlessly diversified uses of a well-equipped library, not only to scholars but
to the general public, may here be referred to. Among the most sought for sources of information,
the periodical press, both of the past and the current time, holds a prominent rank. When it
is considered how far-reaching are the fields embraced in the wide range of these periodicals,
literary, religious, scientific, political, technical, philosophical, social, medical, legal,
educational, agricultural, bibliographical, commercial, financial, historical, mechanical,
nautical, military, artistic, musical, dramatic, typographical, sanitary, sporting, economic,
and miscellaneous, is it any wonder that specialists and writers for the press seek and find
ready aid therein for their many-sided labors?

To the skeptical mind, accustomed to undervalue what does not happen to come within the range
of his pet idols or pursuits, the observation of a single day's multifold research in a great
library might be in the nature of a revelation. Hither flock the ever-present searchers into
family history, laying under contribution all the genealogies and town and county histories
which the country has produced. Here one finds an industrious compiler intent upon the history
of American duels, for which the many files of Northern and Southern newspapers, reaching back
to the beginning of the century, afford copious material. At another table sits a deputation
from a government department, commissioned to make a record of all notable strikes and labor
troubles for a series of years, to be gleaned from the columns of the journals of leading cities.

An absorbed reader of French romances sits side by side with a clergyman perusing homilies,
or endeavoring to elucidate, through a mass of commentators, a special text. Here are to be
found ladies in pursuit of costumes of every age; artists turning over the great folio galleries
of Europe for models or suggestions; lawyers seeking precedents or leading cases; journalists
verifying dates, speeches, conventions, or other forgotten facts; engineers studying the literature
of railways or machinery; actors or amateurs in search of plays or works on the dramatic art;
physicians looking up biographies of their profession or the history of epidemics; students
of heraldry after coats of arms; inventors searching the specifications and drawings of patents;
historical students pursuing some special field in American or foreign annals; scientists verifying
facts or citations by original authorities; searchers tracing personal residences or deaths
in old directories or newspapers; querists seeking for the words of some half-remembered passage
in poetry or prose, or the original author of one of the myriad proverbs which have no father;
architects or builders of houses comparing hundreds of designs and models; teachers perusing
works on education or comparing text-books new or old; readers absorbing the great poems of
the world; writers in pursuit of new or curious themes among books of antiquities or folk-lore;
students of all the questions of finance and economic science; naturalists seeking to trace
through many volumes descriptions of species; pursuers of military or naval history or science;
enthusiasts venturing into the occult domains of spiritualism or thaumaturgy; explorers of
voyages and travels in every region of the globe; fair readers, with dreamy eyes, devouring
the last psychological novel; devotees of musical art perusing the lives or the scores of great
composers; college and high-school students intent upon "booking up" on themes of study or
composition or debate; and a host of other seekers after suggestion or information in a library
of encyclopedic range.

CHAPTER 15.

THE HISTORY OF LIBRARIES.

The Library, from very early times, has enlisted the enthusiasm of the learned, and the encomiums
of the wise. The actual origin of the earliest collection of books (or rather of manuscripts)
is lost in the mists of remote antiquity. Notwithstanding professed descriptions of several
libraries found in Aulus Gellius, Athenaeus, and others, who wrote centuries after the alleged
collections were made, we lack the convincing evidence of eye-witnesses and contemporaries.
But so far as critical research has run, the earliest monuments of man which approached collections
of written records are found not in Europe, but in Africa and Asia.

That land of wonders, Egypt, abounds in hieroglyphic inscriptions, going back, as is agreed
by modern scholars, to the year 2000 before the Christian era. A Papyrus manuscript, too, exists,
which is assigned to about 1600 B. C. And the earliest recorded collection of books in the
world, though perhaps not the first that existed, was that of the Egyptian king Ramses I.--B.
C. 1400, near Thebes, which Diodorus Siculus says bore the inscription "Dispensary of the soul."
Thus early were books regarded as remedial agents of great force and virtue.

But before the library of Ramses the Egyptian king, there existed in Babylonia collections
of books, written not on parchment, nor on the more perishable papyrus, but on clay. Whole
poems, fables, laws, and hymns of the gods have been found, stamped in small characters upon
baked bricks. These clay tablets or books were arranged in numerical order, and the library
at Agane, which existed about 2000 B. C. even had a catalogue, in which each piece of literature
was numbered, so that readers had only to write down the number of the tablet wanted, and the
librarian would hand it over. Two of these curious poems in clay have been found intact, one
on the deluge, the other on the descent of Istar into Hades.

The next ancient library in point of time yet known to us was gathered in Asia by an Assyrian
King, and this collection has actually come down to us, in propria persona. Buried beneath
the earth for centuries, the archaeologist Layard discovered in 1850 at Nineveh, an extensive
collection of tablets or tiles of clay, covered with cuneiform characters, and representing
some ten thousand distinct works or documents. The Assyrian monarch Sardanapalus, a great patron
of letters, was the collector of this primitive and curious library of clay. He flourished
about 1650 B. C.

In Greece, where a copious and magnificent literature had grown up centuries before Christ,
Pisistratus collected a library at Athens, and died B. C. 527. When Xerxes captured Athens,
this collection, which represents the earliest record of a library dedicated to the public,
was carried off to Persia, but restored two centuries later. The renowned philosopher Aristotle
gathered one of the largest Greek libraries, about 350 B. C. said to have embraced about 1400
volumes, or rather, rolls. Plato called Aristotle's residence "the house of the reader." This
library, also, was carried off to Scepsis, and later by the victorious Sulla to Rome. History
shows that the Greek collections were the earliest "travelling libraries" on record, though
they went as the spoils of war, and not to spread abroad learning by the arts of peace.

Rome having conquered Athens, we hear no more of the Athenian libraries, but the seat of ancient
learning was transferred to Alexandria, where were gathered under the liberal sway of the Ptolemies,
more books than had ever been assembled together in any part of the world. Marc Antony presented
to Cleopatra the library of the Kings of Pergamus, said to have contained 200,000 rolls. There
is no space to sketch the ancient libraries, so scantily commemorated, of Greece. Through Aristotle's
enthusiasm for learning, as it is believed, the Ptolemies were fired with the zeal of book-collecting,
and their capital of Alexandria became the seat of extensive libraries, stored in the Brucheion
and the Serapeum. Here, according to general belief, occurred the burning of the famous Alexandrian
library of 700,000 volumes, by the Saracens under Omar, A. D. 640. If any one would have an
object lesson in the uncertainties of history and of human testimony, let him read the various
conflicting accounts of the writers who have treated upon this subject. The number of volumes
varies from 700,000, as stated by Aulus Gellius, to 100,000 by Eusebius. The fact that in ancient
times each book or division of an author's work written on a roll of papyrus was reckoned as
a volume, may account for the exaggeration, since the nine books of Herodotus would thus make
nine volumes, and the twenty-four of Homer's Iliad, twenty-four volumes, instead of one. So,
by an arbitrary application of averages, the size of the Alexandrian Library might be brought
within reasonable dimensions, though there is nothing more misleading than the doctrine of
averages, unless indeed it be a false analogy. But that any library eight hundred years before
the invention of printing contained 700,000 volumes in the modern sense of the word, when the
largest collection in the world, three centuries after books began to be multiplied by types,
held less than 100,000 volumes, is one of the wildest fictions which writers have imposed upon
the credulity of ages.

I cannot even touch upon the libraries of the Romans, though we have very attractive accounts,
among others, of the literary riches of Lucullus, of Atticus, and of Cicero. The first library
in Rome was founded 167 B. C. and in the Augustan age they multiplied, until there were twenty-nine
public libraries in Hadrian's time, 120 A. D. The emperor Julian, in the fourth century, was
a founder of libraries, and is said to have placed over the doors this inscription: "Alii quidem
equos amant, alii oves, alii feros; mihi vero a puerulo mirandum acquirendi et possidendi libros
insedit desiderium."

The libraries of the middle ages were neither large nor numerous. The neglect of learning and
of literature was wide-spread; only in the monasteries of Europe were to be found scholars
who kept alive the sacred flame. In these were renewed those fruitful labors of the scriptorium
which had preserved and multiplied so many precious books in classic times among the Romans.
The monks, indeed, were not seldom creators as well as copyists, though the works which they
composed were mainly theological (as became their sacred profession and ascetic life). The
Latin, however, being the almost universal language for so many centuries, the love of learning
conspired to widen the field of monastic study. Many zealous ecclesiastics were found who revived
the classic authors, and copies of the works of poets, historians, philosophers and rhetoricians
were multiplied. Then were gradually formed those monastic libraries to which so many thousands
of mediaeval scholars owed a debt of gratitude. The order of Benedictines took a leading and
effective part in this revival of learning. Taxes were levied on the inmates of monasteries
expressly for furnishing the library with books, and the novices in many houses must contribute
writing materials upon entering, and books at the close of their novitiate, for the enrichment
of the library. Among notably valuable libraries, several of which still survive, were those
of Monte Cassino in Italy, the Abbey of Fleury in France, St. Gall in Switzerland, and that
of the illustrious congregation of St. Maur in France. The latter had at one time no less than
one hundred and seven writers engaged in multiplying books.

The first library in England is recorded (in the Canterbury Chartulary) to have been given
by Pope Gregory the Great, and brought by St. Augustine, first Archbishop of Canterbury, on
his mission to England about A. D. 600. It consisted of nine precious volumes on vellum, being
copies of parts of the Scriptures, with commentaries, and a volume of Lives of the Martyrs.
The library of the Benedictine Monastery at Canterbury had grown in the 13th century to 3000
titles, being very rich in theology, but with many books also in history, poetry and science.
At York had been founded, in the 8th century, a noble library by Archbishop Egbert, and the
great scholar Alcuin here acquired, amidst that "infinite number of excellent books," his life-long
devotion to literature. When he removed to Tours, in France, he lamented the loss of the literary
treasures of York, in a poem composed of excellent hexameters. He begged of Charlemagne to
send into Britain to procure books, "that the garden of paradise may not be confined to York."

Fine libraries were also gathered at the monasteries of Durham, of Glastonbury, and of Croyland,
and at the Abbeys of Whitby and Peterborough.

Nor were the orders of Franciscans and Dominicans far behind as book-collectors, though they
commonly preferred to buy rather than to transcribe manuscripts, like the Benedictines. "In
every convent of friars," wrote Fitzralph to the Pope, in 1350, "there is a large and noble
library." And Richard de Bury, Bishop of Durham, and Chancellor of England in 1334, whose "Philobiblon"
is the most eloquent treatise in praise of books ever written, said, when visiting places where
the mendicants had convents; "there amid the deepest poverty, we found the most precious riches
stored up." The Pope, it appears, relaxed for these orders the rigor of their vows of poverty,
in favor of amassing books--mindful, doubtless, of that saying of Solomon the wise--"Therefore
get wisdom, because it is better than gold."

And said Joseph Hall, Bishop of Norwich--"I can wonder at nothing more than how a man can be
idle--but of all others a scholar; in so many improvements of reason, in such sweetness of
knowledge, in such variety of studies, in such importunity of thoughts. To find wit in poetry;
in philosophy profoundness; in history wonder of events; in oratory, sweet eloquence; in divinity,
supernatural light and holy devotion--whom would it not ravish with delight?"

Charles the Fifth of France amassed a fine library, afterwards sold to an English nobleman.
Lorenzo de Medici, of Hungary, and Frederic Duke of Urbino, each gathered in the 15th century
a magnificent collection of books. All of these became widely dispersed in later years, though
the manuscripts of the Duke of Urbino's collection are preserved in the library of the Vatican.

I may here note a very few of the most extensive library collections now existing in Europe
and America.

1. Of the great public libraries of Europe, which owe much of their riches to the government
privilege of the copy-tax, the national library of France is the oldest and the largest, now
numbering two million six hundred thousand volumes. Founded in the 15th century, it has had
four hundred years of opportunity for steady and large increase. Paris abounds in other public
libraries also, in which respect it is far superior to London.

2. Next to the Bibliothèque nationale of France, comes the Library of the British Museum, with
2,000,000 volumes, very rich both in manuscripts and in printed books in all languages. A liberal
Parliamentary grant of $60,000 a year for purchase of books and manuscripts keeps this great
collection well up to date as to all important new works, besides enabling it constantly to
fill up deficiencies in the literature of the past. Following this, among the great libraries
having over half a million books, come in numerical order

                                                  Volumes.
 3. Russian Imperial Library, St. Petersburg,    1,200,000
 4. Royal Library of Prussia, Berlin,            1,000,000
 5. Royal Library of Bavaria, Munich,              980,000
 6. Library of Congress, Washington City,          840,000
 7. Boston Public Library,                         734,000
 8. University Library, Strasburg, Germany,        700,000
 9. Imperial Public Library, Vienna,               575,000
10. Bodleian Library, Oxford                       530,000

It is a notable fact that among the richest monuments of learning that have been gathered by
mankind, the University libraries hold a very high rank. Reckoned in number of volumes, there
are many of them which far outrank the government libraries, except in six instances. Out of
174 libraries, all exceeding 100,000 volumes, as reported in the annual Minerva, in October,
1898, no less than 72 are the libraries of universities. Strasburg heads the list, with a noble
collection of 700,000 volumes; then Oxford university, whose Bodleian library numbers 530,000;
Leipzig university, 504,000; Cambridge university, England, Göttingen university, and Harvard
university, 500,000 each; the university of Vienna, 475,000; the universities of Heidelberg
and of Munich, 400,000 each; Ghent and Würzburg universities, 350,000 each; Christiania, Norway,
university, and Tübingen, each 340,000; University of Chicago, 330,000; Copenhagen university,
305,000; Breslau, Cracow, Rostock and Upsala, 300,000 each; Yale university, New Haven, 280,000;
St. Petersburg, 257,000; Bologna, 255,000; Freiburg and Bonn universities, 250,000 each; Prague,
245,000; Trinity, Dublin, 232,000; Königsberg, 231,000; Kiel, 229,000; Naples, 224,000; and
Buda-Pest, 210,000. I need not detain you by enumerating those that fall below 200,000 volumes,
but will say that the whole number of volumes in the 72 university libraries embraced in my
table is more than fifteen millions, which would be much enlarged if smaller libraries were
included. A noble exhibit is this, which the institutions of the highest education hold up
before us.

       *       *       *       *       *

We may now consider, somewhat more in detail as to particulars, the origin and growth of the
libraries of the United States. The record will show an amazingly rapid development, chiefly
accomplished during the last quarter of a century, contrasted with the lamentably slow growth
of earlier years.

Thirty years ago the present year, I was invited to give to the American Social Science Association,
then meeting at New York, a discourse upon Public Libraries in the United States. On recurring
to this address, I have been agreeably surprised to find how completely its facts and figures
belong to the domain of ancient history. For, while it may excite a smile to allude to anything
belonging to a period only thirty years back as ancient history, yet, so rapid has been the
accumulation, not only of books, but of libraries themselves in that brief period of three
decades, as almost to justify the term employed.

Antiquarians must ever regard with interest the first efforts for the establishment of public
libraries in the New World. The first record of books dedicated to a public purpose in that
part of this country now occupied by the English-speaking race is, I believe, to be found in
the following entry in the Records of the Virginia Company of London:

"November 15, 1620.--After the Acts of the former Courte were read, a straunger stept in presentinge
a Mapp of S^r Walter Rawlighes contayinge a Descripcon of Guiana, and with the same fower great
books as the Guifte of one unto the Company that desyred his name might not be made knowne,
whereof one booke was a treatise of St. Augustine of the Citty of God translated into English,
the other three greate Volumes wer the works of Mr. Perkins' newlie corrected and amended,
wch books the Donor desyred they might be sent to the Colledge in Virginia there to remayne
in saftie to the use of the collegiates thereafter, and not suffered at any time to be sent
abroade or used in the meane while. For wch so worthy a guifte my Lord of Southampton desyred
the p'tie that presented them to returne deserued thanks from himselfe and the rest of the
Company to him that had so kindly bestowed them."[1]

The college here referred to was the first ever founded in America, and was seated at Henrico,
at the confluence of the James River with the Chickahominy. It was designed not only for the
education of the Virginia settlers, but to teach science and Christianity to the Indians. Large
contributions were raised in England by Sir Edwin Sandys, and others of the Virginia Company,
for its support. But this Virginia college and its incipient library were doomed to a speedy
extinction. Like so many other brilliant "prospects for planting arts and learning in America,"
it did not survive the perils of the colonial epoch. It was brought to a period by the bloody
Indian massacre of March 22, 1622, when three hundred and forty-seven of the Virginia settlers
were slaughtered in a day, the new settlement broken up, and the expanding lines of civilization
contracted to the neighborhood of Jamestown.

Harvard University Library was founded in 1638 by the endowment of John Harvard, who bequeathed
to the new college his library and half of his estate. Soon afterwards enriched by the zealous
contributions of English Puritans and philosophers, of Berkeley, and Baxter, and Lightfoot,
and Sir Kenelm Digby, the first university library in America, after a century and a quarter
of usefulness, was totally destroyed with the college edifice in the year 1764 by fire. When
we contemplate the ravages of this element, which has consumed so many noble libraries, destroying
not only printed books of priceless value, but often precious manuscripts which are unique
and irreplaceable, a lively sense of regret comes over us that these creations of the intellect,
which should be imperishable, are even yet at the mercy of an accident in all the libraries
of the world save a very few. The destruction of books in private hands is natural and inevitable
enough, and goes on continually. Whole editions of books, now sought with avidity as the rarest
volumes known to literature, have been gradually destroyed in innumerable fires, worn out in
the hands of readers, used for waste paper by grocers and petty tradesmen, swallowed up in
the sack of towns, or consumed by dampness, mould, or, in rare instances, by the remorseless
tooth of time. Yet there have always existed public libraries enough, had they been fire-proof,
to have preserved many copies of every book bequeathed to the world, both before the invention
of printing and since. But, when your insurance office is bankrupt, what becomes of the insured?
When nearly all our public libraries are so constructed as to become an easy prey to the flames,
the loss of so many books which have completely perished from the earth ceases to be wonderful.

The growth of Harvard University library, from its second foundation a century ago, has been
steady, though at no time rapid. Select and valuable in its principal contents, it has received
numerous benefactions from the friends of learning, and promises to become the best, as it
already is much the largest, among the university libraries of the country. Its present strength
is about 500,000 volumes.

The year 1700 witnessed the birth of the first New York library open to public use. The Rev.
John Sharp, then chaplain of His Majesty's forces in that city (it was in the days of good
King William of Orange), bequeathed his private collection of books to found a "public library"
in New York. The library thus organized was placed in charge of the corporation of the city,
but the first city library of New York languished with little or no increase until 1754, when
a society of gentlemen undertook to found a public library by subscription, and succeeded so
well that the city authorities turned over to them what remained of the Public City Library.
This was the beginning of the New York Society Library, one of the largest of the proprietary
libraries of the country. It was then, and for a long time afterwards, commonly known as "The
City Library." The Continental Congress profited by its stores, there being no other library
open to their use; and the First Congress under the Constitution, which met in New York in
1789, received the free use of the books it contained. The library is conducted on the share
system, the payment of twenty-five dollars, and an annual assessment of six dollars, giving
any one the privilege of membership. It now contains about 100,000 volumes.

The same year, 1700, in which the New York Library was founded, ten Connecticut ministers met
together at Lyme, each bringing a number of books, and saying, "I give these books for the
founding of a college in this colony." Such was the foundation of Yale University, an institution
that has done inestimable service to the cause of letters, having been fruitful of writers
of books, as well as of living contributions to the ranks of every learned profession. Thirty
years later, we find the good Bishop Berkeley pausing from the lofty speculations which absorbed
him, to send over to Yale College what was called "the finest collection of books that ever
came together at one time into America." For a century and a half the growth of this library
was very slow, the college being oppressed with poverty. In 1869, the number of volumes had
risen only to 50,000, but it is cheering to relate that the last thirty years have witnessed
a growth so rapid that in 1899 Yale University Library had 285,000 volumes.

The fourth considerable library founded in the United States was due in a large degree to the
industry and zeal for knowledge of the illustrous Franklin. As unquestionably the first established
proprietary library in America, the Library Company of Philadelphia merits especial notice.

When this Philadelphia Library was founded, in 1731, not a single city or town in England possessed
a subscription library. Even the library of the British Museum, since become the greatest collection
of books in the world, save one, was not opened until 1759, more than a quarter of a century
afterwards. Although not designed as a public library of circulation, save to its own subscribers,
the Philadelphia Library has been kept free to all for reference and consultation. The record
of the gradual increase of the first Philadelphia Library from its first few hundred volumes,
when Franklin was but twenty-five years of age, to its present rank as the largest proprietary
library in America, with 195,000 volumes of books, is highly interesting. Its history, in fact,
is to a large extent the history of intellectual culture in Philadelphia, which remained, until
the second decade in the present century, the foremost city of the Union in population, and,
from 1791 to 1800, the seat of government of the United States.

The Philadelphia Library Company, in 1774, voted that "the gentlemen who were to meet in Congress"
in that city should be furnished with such books as they might have occasion for; and the same
privilege was exercised on the return of the Government to that city, in 1791, and until the
removal of Congress to Washington in 1800. During the nine months' occupation of Philadelphia
by the British army, it is refreshing to read that the conquerors lifted no spear against the
Muses' bower, but that "the officers, without exception, left deposits, and paid hire for the
books borrowed by them." The collection, in respect of early printed books, is one of the largest
and most valuable in America, embracing some books and files of newspapers which are to be
found in no other public library. The selection of new books has been kept unusually free from
the masses of novels and other ephemeral publications which overload most of our popular libraries,
and the collection, although limited in extent in every field, and purposely leaving special
topics, such as the medical and natural sciences, to the scientific libraries which abound
in Philadelphia, affords to the man of letters a good working library. The shares in the library
cost forty dollars, with an annual assessment of four dollars to each stockholder.

In 1869, the great bequest of Doctor James Rush to the Philadelphia Library of his whole property,
valued at over $1,000,000, was accepted by its stockholders, by the bare majority of five votes
in a poll of over five hundred. This lack of harmony is attributable to the fact that the bequest,
so generous in itself, was hampered by the donor with numerous conditions, deemed by many friends
of the library to be highly onerous and vexatious. Not the least among these was the following,
which is cited from the will itself:

"Let the library not keep cushioned seats for time-wasting and lounging readers, nor places
for every-day novels, mind-tainting reviews, controversial politics, scribblings of poetry
and prose, biographies of unknown names, nor for those teachers of disjointed thinking, the
daily newspapers."

Here is one more melancholy instance of a broad and liberal bequest narrowly bestowed. The
spirit which animated the respectable testator in attempting to exclude the larger part of
modern literature from the library which his money was to benefit may have been unexceptionable
enough. Doubtless there are evils connected with a public supply of frivolous and trifling
literature; and perhaps our periodicals may be justly chargeable with devoting an undue proportion
of their columns to topics of merely ephemeral interest. But it should never be forgotten that
the literature of any period is and must be largely occupied with the questions of the day.
Thus, and thus only, it becomes a representative literature, and it is precious to posterity
in proportion as it accurately reflects the spirit, the prejudices, and the personalities of
a time which has passed into history, leaving behind it no living representatives. If we admit
that the development of the human intellect at any particular period is worth studying, then
all books are, or may become, useful. It is amazing that a person with any pretensions to discernment
should denounce newspapers as unfitted to form a part of a public library. The best newspapers
of the time are sometimes the best books of the time. A first-class daily journal is an epitome
of the world, recording the life and the deeds of men, their laws and their literature, their
politics and religion, their social and criminal statistics, the progress of invention and
of art, the revolutions of empires, and the latest results of science. Grant that newspapers
are prejudiced, superficial, unfair; so also are books. Grant that the journals often give
place to things scurrilous and base; but can there be anything baser or more scurrilous than
are suffered to run riot in books? There is to be found hidden away in the pages of some books
such filth as no man would dare to print in a newspaper, from fear of the instant wrath of
the passers-by.

When I consider the debt which libraries and literature alike owe to the daily and weekly press,
it is difficult to characterize with patience the Parthian arrow flung at it from the grave
of a querulous millionaire, who will owe to these very newspapers the greater part of his success
and his reputation. The father of the respectable testator, Doctor Benjamin Rush, has left
on record many learned speculations concerning the signs and evidences of lunacy. We may now
add to the number the vagaries of the author of a ponderous work on the human intellect, who
gravely proposed to hand over to posterity an expurgated copy of the nineteenth century, with
all its newspapers left out.

The Library of Congress, or, as it was called in its first general catalogue in 1815, "The
Library of the United States," was founded in 1800, by the purchase of five thousand dollars'
worth of books by act of Congress, upon the removal of the government to Washington. By the
act of January 26, 1802, entitled "An act concerning the Library for the use of both Houses
of Congress," this library was placed in charge of a joint committee of both Houses of Congress,
consisting of three Senators and three Representatives, and a Librarian, to be appointed by
the President of the United States. It had grown to the number of only 3,000 volumes in 1814,
when the British army made a bonfire of our national Capitol, and the library was consumed
in the ruins. The first library of Congress being thus destroyed, ex-President Jefferson, then
living, involved in debt, and in his old age, at Monticello, offered his fine private library
of 6,700 volumes to Congress, through friends in that body, the terms of payment to be made
convenient to the public, and the price to be fixed by a committee. The proposition met with
able advocacy and also with some warm opposition. It is illustrative of the crude conceptions
regarding the uses of books which prevailed in the minds of some members, that the library
was objected to on the somewhat incongruous grounds of embracing too many editions of the Bible,
and a number of the French writers in skeptical philosophy. It was gravely proposed to pack
up this portion of the library, and return it to the illustrious owner at Monticello, paying
him for the remainder. More enlightened counsels, however, prevailed, and the nation became
possessed, for about $23,000, of a good basis for a public library which might become worthy
of the country. The collection thus formed grew by slow accretion until, in 1851, it had accumulated
55,000 volumes. On the 24th of December in that year, a defective flue in the Capitol set fire
to the wood-work with which the whole library was surrounded, and the result was a conflagration,
from which 20,000 volumes only were saved. Congress at once appropriated, with praiseworthy
liberality, $75,000 for the purchase of new books, and $92,500 for rebuilding the library room
in solid iron; the first instance of the employment of that safe and permanent material, so
capable of the lightest and most beautiful architectural effects, in the entire interior structure
of any public building. The appropriation of $75,000 was principally expended in the purchase
of standard English literature, including complete sets of many important periodicals, and
a selection of the more costly works in science and the fine arts. In 1866, two wings, each
as large as the central library, and constructed of the same fire-proof material, were added
to it, and quickly filled by the accession, the same year and the following, of two large libraries,
that of the Smithsonian Institution, and the historical library of Peter Force, of Washington.
The latter was the largest private library ever then brought together in the United States,
but its chief value consisted in its possession of a very great proportion of the books relating
to the settlement, history, topography, and politics of America, its 45,000 pamphlets, its
files of early newspapers of the Revolution, its early printed books, and its rich assemblage
of maps and manuscripts, many of the latter being original autographs of the highest historical
interest, including military letters and papers of the period of the American Revolution. The
Smithsonian library, the custody of which was accepted by Congress as a trust, is rich in scientific
works in all the languages of Europe, and forms an extensive and appropriate supplement to
the Library of Congress, the chief strength of which lies in jurisprudence, political science,
history, and books relating to America. Yet no department of literature or science has been
left unrepresented in its formation, and the fact has been kept steadily in view that the Library
of the Government must become, sooner or later, a universal one. As the only library which
is entitled to the benefit of the copyright law, by which copies of each publication for which
the Government grants an exclusive right must be deposited in the National Library, this collection
must become annually more important as an exponent of the growth of American literature. This
wise provision of law prevents the dispersion or destruction of books that tend continually
to disappear; a benefit to the cause of letters, the full value of which it requires slight
reflection to estimate.

This National Library now embraces 840,000 volumes, besides about 250,000 pamphlets. It is
freely open, as a library of reference and reading, to the whole people; but the books are
not permitted to be drawn out, except by Senators and Representatives and a few officials for
use at the seat of government. Its new, commodious and beautiful building, which may fitly
be called the book-palace of the American people, open day and evening to all comers, is a
delight to the eye, and to the mind.

       *       *       *       *       *

The library of the Boston Athenaeum originated, in the year 1806, with a society of gentlemen
of literary tastes, who aimed at creating a reading-room for the best foreign and American
periodicals, together with a library of books. To this a gallery of art was subsequently added.
The undertaking proved at once successful, leaving us to wonder why cultivated Boston, though
abounding in special and parish libraries, should so long have done without a good general
library; New York having anticipated her by fifty-two years, and Philadelphia by three-quarters
of a century. The Athenaeum Library is peculiarly rich in files of American newspapers, both
old and new, and its collection of early pamphlets is one of the largest in the country. In
literature and science it embraces a heavy proportion of the best books, its total number of
volumes being reckoned at 190,000. Its collection of books, pamphlets, and newspapers relating
to the recent civil war is among the completest known. The price of a share in the Athenaeum
is three hundred dollars, a large sum when compared with that of other proprietary libraries;
but it involves much more valuable property-rights than any other. The annual assessment is
five dollars to shareholders, who alone possess the right to draw books. The proprietors have
also the power to grant free admission to others, and the library and reading-room are thus
thrown open for reference to a wide range of readers.

The history of the Astor Library, opened in 1854, has been made too familiar by repeated publication
to need repetition here. The generous founder gave two per cent. out of his fortune of $20,000,000
to create a free public library for the city which had given him all his wealth. The gift was
a splendid one, greater than had ever before been given in money to found a library. Moreover,
the $400,000 of Mr. Astor, half a century ago, appeared to be, and perhaps was, a larger sum
relatively than four millions in New York of to-day. Yet it remains true that the bequest was
but one-fiftieth part of the fortune of the donor, and that the growth and even the proper
accommodation of the library must have stopped, but for the spontaneous supplementary gifts
of the principal inheritors of his vast wealth.

The growth of the Astor library has been very slow, the annual income from what was left of
Mr. Astor's $400,000 bequest, after defraying the cost of the library building, and the $100,000
expended for books at its foundation in 1848, having been so small as to necessitate a pinching
economy, both in salaries of the library staff, and in the annual purchase of books. It was
an example of a generous act performed in a niggardly way. But after the lapse of half a century,
enlightened public policy, building upon the Astor foundation, and on the Lenox and Tilden
bequests for founding public libraries in New York city, is about to equip that long neglected
city with a library worthy of the name. There has already been gathered from these three united
benefactions, a collection of no less than 450,000 volumes, making the New York Public Library
take rank as the fourth, numerically, in the United States.

While no library in America has yet reached one million volumes, there are five libraries in
Europe, which have passed the million mark. Some of these, it is true, are repositories of
ancient and mediaeval literature, chiefly, with a considerable representation of the books
of the last century, and but few accessions from the more modern press. Such, for the most
part, are the numerous libraries of Italy, while others, like the Library of the British Museum,
in London, and the National Library, at Paris, are about equally rich in ancient and modern
literature. The one great advantage which European libraries possess over American consists
in the stores of ancient literature which the accumulations of the past have given them. This
advantage, so far as manuscripts and early printed books are concerned, can never be overcome.
With one or two hundred thousand volumes as a basis, what but utter neglect can prevent a library
from becoming a great and useful institution? The most moderate share of discrimination, applied
to the selection of current literature, will keep up the character of the collection as a progressive
one. But with nothing at all as a basis, as most of our large American libraries have started,
it will take generations for us to overtake some of the vast collections of Europe--even numerically.

In the "American Almanac" for 1837 was published the earliest statistical account of American
libraries which I have found. It is confined to a statement of the numerical contents of twenty
public and university libraries, being all the American libraries which then (sixty years since)
contained over 10,000 volumes each. The largest library in the United States at that date was
that of the Philadelphia Library Company, which embraced 44,000 volumes. The first organized
effort to collect the full statistics of libraries in the United States was made in 1849, by
Professor C. C. Jewett, then librarian of the Smithsonian Institution, and the results were
published in 1851, under the auspices of that institution, in a volume of 207 pages. It contains
interesting notices of numerous libraries, only forty of which, however, contained as many
as 10,000 volumes each. In 1859, Mr. W. J. Rhees, of the Smithsonian Institution, published
"A Manual of Public Libraries, Institutions, and Societies in the United States," a large volume
of 687 pages, filled with statistical information in great detail, and recording the number
of volumes in 1338 libraries. This work was an expansion of that of Professor Jewett. The next
publication of the statistics of American Libraries, of an official character, was published
in "The National Almanac," Philadelphia, for the year 1864, pp. 58-62, and was prepared by
the present writer. It gave the statistics of 104 libraries, each numbering 10,000 volumes
or upwards, exhibiting a gratifying progress in all the larger collections, and commemorating
the more advanced and vigorous of the new libraries which had sprung into life.

The work of collecting and publishing the statistics of American Libraries has for years past
been admirably performed by the United States Bureau of Education. Begun in 1875, that institution
has issued four tabular statements of all libraries responding to its circulars of inquiry,
and having (as last reported in 1897) one thousand volumes or upwards. Besides these invaluable
reports, costing much careful labor and great expense, the Bureau of Education published, in
1876, an extensive work wholly devoted to the subject of libraries, bearing the title "Special
Report on Public Libraries in the United States." This publication (now wholly out of print)
consisted of 1222 pages, replete with information upon the history, management, and condition
of American Libraries, under the editorship of S. R. Warren and S. N. Clark, of the Bureau
of Education. It embraced many original contributions upon topics connected with library science,
by experienced librarians, viz.: Messrs. W. F. Poole, Justin Winsor, C. A. Cutter, J. S. Billings,
Theo. Gill, Melvil Dewey, O. H. Robinson, W. I. Fletcher, F. B. Perkins, H. A. Homes, A. R.
Spofford, and others.

I have prepared a table of the numerical contents of the thirty-four largest libraries in this
country in 1897, being all those having 100,000 volumes each or upwards:

Library of Congress, Washington,                          840,000 Boston Public Library, Boston,
730,000 Harvard University Library, Cambridge,                    510,000 New York Public Library,
New York City,                   450,000 University of Chicago Library,                   
335,000 New York State Library, Albany,                           320,710 Yale University Library,
New Haven,                       285,000 New York Mercantile Library, New York,           
270,000 Columbia University Library, New York,                    260,000 Chicago Public Library,
235,385 Cincinnati Public Library,                                223,043 Cornell University
Library, Ithaca, N. Y.,                220,000 Sutro Library, San Francisco,              
206,300 Newberry Library, Chicago,                                203,108 Philadelphia Library
Company,                             200,000 Philadelphia Mercantile Library,             
190,000 Boston Athenaeum Library,                                 190,000 Enoch Pratt Library,
Baltimore,                           185,902 Philadelphia Mercantile Library,             
183,000 Detroit Public Library, Detroit, Mich.,                   148,198 University of Pennsylvania
Library, Phila.,               140,000 Princeton University Library, Princeton, N. J.,    
135,000 Pennsylvania State Library, Harrisburg,                   134,000 Peabody Institute
Library, Baltimore,                     130,000 Cleveland Public Library, Cleveland, O.,  
129,000 St. Louis Public Library,                                 125,000 Mechanics and Tradesmen's
Library, New York,              115,185 Free Public Library, Worcester, Mass.,            
115,000 San Francisco Public Library,                             108,066 Philadelphia Free
Library,                                105,000 American Antiquarian Society Library, Worcester,
Mass.,   105,000 California State Library, Sacramento,                     100,032 Massachusetts
State Library, Boston,                      100,000 New York Society Library, New York,   
100,000

Public libraries endowed by private munificence form already a large class, and these are constantly
increasing. Of the public libraries founded by individual bequest, some of the principal are
the Public Library of New York, the Watkinson Library, at Hartford, the Peabody Institute Libraries,
of Baltimore, and at Danvers and Peabody, Mass., the Newberry Library and the John Crerar Library
at Chicago, the Sutro Library, San Francisco, the Enoch Pratt Library, Baltimore, and the Carnegie
Libraries at Pittsburgh and Allegheny City, Pa. Nearly all of them are the growth of the last
quarter of a century. The more prominent, in point of well equipped buildings or collections
of books, are here named, including all which number ten thousand volumes each, or upwards,
among the public libraries associated with the founder's name.

New York Public Library (Astor Lenox and Tilden Foundations),  450,000 Newberry Library, Chicago,
203,100 Sutro Library, San Francisco,                                  206,300 Enoch Pratt
Library, Baltimore,                                185,900 Peabody Institute Library, Baltimore,
130,000 Davenport Library, Bath, N. Y.,                                 90,000 Silas Bronson
Library, Waterbury, Conn.,                        52,000 Pratt Institute Free Library, Brooklyn,
N. Y.,                  51,000 Watkinson Library, Hartford, Conn.,                        
47,000 Sage Library, New Brunswick, N. Y.,                             43,000 Case Library,
Cleveland, Ohio,                                  40,000 Grosvenor Library, Buffalo, N. Y.,
39,000 Forbes Library, Northampton, Mass.,                             36,000 Cooper Union
Library, New York,                                 34,000 Fisk Free Public Library, New Orleans,
33,000 Peabody Institute Library, Peabody, Mass.,                      33,000 Reynolds Library,
Rochester, N. Y.,                             33,000 Carnegie Free Library, Allegheny, Pa.,
30,000 Fletcher Free Library, Burlington, Vt.,                         30,000 Howard Memorial
Library, New Orleans,                           26,000 Carnegie Library, Pittsburgh, Pa., 
25,000 Sage Public Library, West Bay City, Mich.,                      25,000 Hoyt Public Library,
Saginaw, Mich.,                            24,000 Osterhout Free Library, Wilkesbarre, Pa.,
24,000 Seymour Library, Auburn, N. Y.,                                 24,000 Hackley Public
Library, Muskegon, Mich.,                        22,000 Willard Library, Evansville, Ind.,
22,000 Otis Library, Norwich, Conn.,                                   21,000 Morrison-Reeves
Library, Richmond, Ind.,                        21,000 Baxter Memorial Library, Rutland, Vt.,
20,000 Cornell Library Association, Ithaca, N. Y.,                     20,000 Thomas Crane
Public Library, Quincy, Mass.,                     19,000 Dimmick Library, Mauch Chunk, Pa.,
18,000 Gail Borden Public Library, Elgin, Ill.,                        17,000 Peabody Institute
Library, Danvers, Mass.,                      17,000 Tufts Library, Weymouth, Mass.,      
17,000 Warder Public Library, Springfield, Ohio,                       17,000 Withers Public
Library, Bloomington, Ill.,                      15,000 Cary Library, Lexington, Mass.,   
15,000 Fritz Public Library, Chelsea, Mass.,                           15,000 Turner Free Library,
Randolph, Mass.,                           15,000 Ames Free Library, North Easton, Mass., 
14,000 Bigelow Free Library, Clinton, Mass.,                           14,000 Clarke Public
Library, Coldwater, Mich.,                        14,000 Harris Institute Library, Woonsocket,
R. I.,                    14,000 Merrick Public Library, Brookfield, Mass.,               
14,000 Robbins Library, Arlington, Mass.,                              14,000 Nevins Memorial
Library, Methuen, Mass.,                        14,000 Sturgis Library, Barnstable, Mass.,
13,000 Birchard Library, Fremont, Ohio,                                12,500 James Prendergast
Library, Jamestown, N. Y.,                    12,500 Rogers Free Library, Bristol, R. I., 
12,300 Abbott Public Library, Marblehead, Mass.,                       12,000 Armour Institute,
Chicago, Ill.,                                12,000 Beebe Town Library, Wakefield, Mass.,
12,000 Carnegie Free Library, Braddock, Pa.,                           12,000 Goodnow Library,
South Sudbury, Mass.,                          12,000 Millicent Library, Fairhaven, Mass.,
12,000 Thayer Public Library, South Braintree, Mass.,                  11,000 Dyer Library,
Saco, Maine,                                      10,500 Cossit Library, Memphis, Tenn.,  
10,000 Gloucester (Mass.) Sawyer Free Library,                         10,000 Ferguson Library,
Stamford, Conn.,                              10,000 Parlin Memorial Library, Everett, Mass.,
10,000 Jennie D. Haynes Library, Alton, Ill.,                          10,000 Hornell Free
Library, Hornellsville, N. Y.,                     10,000

Besides the preceding list, purposely confined to free libraries chiefly founded by individuals,
which have reached the ten thousand volume mark, there are a multitude of others, too numerous
to be named, having a less number of volumes. In fact, the public spirit which gives freely
of private wealth to enlarge the intelligence of the community may be said to grow by emulation.
Many men who have made fortunes have endowed their native places with libraries. It is yearly
becoming more and more widely recognized that a man can build no monument to himself so honorable
or so lasting as a free public library. Its influence is well nigh universal, and its benefits
are perennial.

       *       *       *       *       *

We now come to consider the city or town libraries, created or maintained by voluntary taxation.
These, like the class of libraries founded by private munificence, are purely a modern growth.
While the earliest movement in this direction in Great Britain dates back only to 1850, New
Hampshire has the honor of adopting the first free public library law, in America, in the year
1849. Massachusetts followed in 1851, and the example was emulated by other States at various
intervals, until there now remain but fifteen out of our forty-five States which have no public
library law. The general provisions of these laws authorize any town or city to collect taxes
by vote of the citizens for maintaining a public library, to be managed by trustees elected
or appointed for the purpose.

But a more far-reaching provision for supplying the people with public libraries was adopted
by New Hampshire (again the pioneer State), in 1895. This was nothing less than the passage
of a State law making it compulsory on every town in New Hampshire to assess annually the sum
of thirty dollars for every dollar of public taxes apportioned to such town, the amount to
be appropriated to establish and maintain a free public library. Library trustees are to be
elected, and in towns where no public library exists, the money is to be held by them, and
to accumulate until the town is ready to establish a library.

This New Hampshire statute, making obligatory the supply of public information through books
and periodicals in free libraries in every town, may fairly be termed the high-water mark of
modern means for the diffusion of knowledge. This system of creating libraries proceeds upon
the principle that intellectual enlightenment is as much a concern of the local government
as sanitary regulations or public morality. Society has an interest that is common to all classes
in the means that are provided for the education of the people. Among these means free town
or city libraries are one of the most potent and useful. New Hampshire and Massachusetts, in
nearly all of their towns and cities, have recognized the principle that public books are just
as important to the general welfare as public lamps. What are everywhere needed are libraries
open to the people as a matter of right, and not as a matter of favor.

The largest library in the country, save one (that at Washington), owes its origin and success
to this principle, combined with some private munificence. The Boston Public Library is unquestionably
one of the most widely useful collections of books open to the public in this country. Of all
the greater collections, it is the only one which lends out books free of charge to all citizens.
Instituted in 1852, its career has been one of rapid progress and ever widening usefulness.
I shall not dwell upon it at length, as the facts regarding it have been more widely published
than those relating to any other library.

Under the permissive library laws of thirty States, there had been formed up to 1896, when
the last comprehensive statistics were gathered, about 1,200 free public libraries, supported
by taxation, in the United States.

A still more widely successful means of securing a library foundation that shall be permanent
is found in uniting private benefactions with public money to found or to maintain a library.
Many public-spirited citizens, fortunately endowed with large means, have offered to erect
library buildings in certain places, on condition that the local authorities would provide
the books, and the means of maintaining a free library. Such generous offers, whether coupled
with the condition of perpetuating the donor's name with that of the library, or leaving the
gift unhampered, so that the library may bear the name of the town or city of its location,
have generally been accepted by municipal bodies, or by popular vote. This secures, in most
cases, a good working library of choice reading, as well as its steady annual growth and management,
free of the heavy expense of building, of which the tax-payers are relieved. The many munificent
gifts of library buildings by Mr. Andrew Carnegie, to American towns and cities, and to some
in his native Scotland, are worthy of special note. And the reader will see from the long list
heretofore given of the more considerable public libraries to be credited wholly or in part
to private munificence, that American men of wealth have not been wanting as public benefactors.

In some cases, whole libraries have been given to a town or village where a public library
already existed, or liberal gifts or bequests of money, to be expended in the enrichment of
such libraries, have been bestowed. Very interesting lists of benefactions for the benefit
of libraries may be found in the volumes of the Library Journal, New York. It is with regret
that candor requires me to add, that several proffers of fine library buildings to certain
places, coupled with the condition that the municipal authorities would establish and maintain
a free library, have remained without acceptance, thus forfeiting a liberal endowment. Where
public education has been so neglected as to render possible such a niggardly, penny-wise and
pound-foolish policy, there is manifestly signal need of every means of enlightenment.

       *       *       *       *       *

We now come to the various State libraries founded at the public charge, and designed primarily
for the use of the respective legislatures of the States. The earliest of these is the New
Hampshire State Library, established in 1790, and the largest is the New York State Library,
at Albany, founded in 1818, now embracing 325,000 volumes, and distinguished alike by the value
of its stores and the liberality of its management. The reason for being of a State library
is obviously and primarily to furnish the legislative body and State courts with such ample
books of reference in jurisprudence, history, science, etc., as will aid them in the intelligent
discharge of their duties as law-makers and judges of the law. The library thus existing at
each State capital may well be opened to the public for reading and reference, thus greatly
enlarging its usefulness.

Every State in the Union has now at least a legislative library, although the most of them
consist chiefly of laws and legislative documents, with a few works of reference superadded;
and their direct usefulness to the public is therefore very circumscribed. The New York State
Library is a model of what a great public library should be in the capital of a State. In it
are gathered a great proportion of the best books in each department of literature and science,
while indefatigable efforts have been made to enrich it in whatever relates to American history
and polity. Its reading-room is freely opened to the public during many hours daily. But a
State library should never be made a library of circulation, since its utility as a reference
library, having its books always in for those who seek them, would thereby be destroyed. Even
under the existing system, with the privilege of drawing books out confined to the Legislature,
some of the State libraries have been depleted and despoiled of many of their most valuable
books, through loaning them freely on the orders of members. The sense of responsibility is
far less in the case of borrowed books which are government property, than in other cases.
The only safe rule for keeping a government library from being scattered, is strict refusal
of orders for loaning to any one not legally entitled to draw books, and short terms of withdrawal
to legislators, with enforcement of a rule of replacement, at their expense, as to all books
not returned at the end of each session.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is one class of libraries not yet touched upon, namely, school district libraries. These
originated for the first time in a legally organized system, through an act of the New York
State Legislature in 1835, authorizing the voters in each school district to levy a tax of
twenty dollars with which to start a library, and ten dollars a year for adding to the same.
These were not to be for the schools alone, but for all the people living in the district where
the school was located. This was supplemented in 1838 by a State appropriation of $55,000 a
year, from New York's share of the surplus revenue fund distributed by Congress to the States
in 1837, and the income of which was devoted by New York to enlarging the school district libraries.
After spending nearly two millions of dollars on these libraries in forty years, the system
was found to have been so far a failure that the volumes in the libraries had decreased from
1,600,000 to 700,000 volumes.

This extraordinary and deplorable result was attributed to several distinct causes. 1st. No
proper responsibility as to the use and return of books was enforced. 2d. The insignificance
of the sum raised by taxation in each district prevented any considerable supply of books from
being acquired. 3d. The funds were largely devoted to buying the same books in each school
district, instead of being expended in building up a large and varied collection. Thus the
system produced innumerable petty libraries of duplicates, enriching publishers and booksellers,
while impoverishing the community. The school district library system, in short, while promising
much in theory, in the way of public intelligence, broke down completely in practice. The people
quickly lost interest in libraries which gave them so little variety in books, either of instruction
or of recreation.

Although widely introduced in other States besides New York, from 1837 to 1877, it proved an
admitted failure in all. Much public money, raised by taxation of the people, was squandered
upon sets of books, selected by State authority, and often of inferior interest and utility.
Finally, it was recognized that school district libraries were an evanescent dream, and that
town libraries must take their place. This instructive chapter in Library history shows an
experience by which much was learned, though the lesson was a costly one.

The Historical libraries of the country are numerous, and some of the larger ones are rich
in printed Americana, and in historical manuscripts. The oldest is that of the Massachusetts
Historical Society, founded in 1791, and among the most extensive are those of the New York
Historical Society, American Antiquarian Society, the Historical Society of Pennsylvania, the
New England Historic-genealogical Society, and the Wisconsin State Historical Society. There
are no less than 230 historical societies in the U. S., some forty of which are State associations.

The Mercantile libraries are properly a branch of the proprietary, though depending mostly
upon annual subscriptions. The earliest of these was the Boston Mercantile Library, founded
in 1820, and followed closely by the New York Mercantile the same year, the Philadelphia in
1821, and the Cincinnati Mercantile in 1835.

Next we have the professional libraries, law, medical, scientific, and, in several cities,
theological. These supply a want of each of these professions seldom met by the public collections,
and are proportionately valuable.

       *       *       *       *       *

The most recent plan for the wide diffusion of popular books is the travelling library. This
originated in New York in 1893, when the Legislature empowered the Regents of the State University
(a body of trustees having charge of all library interests in that State) to send out selections
of books to any community without a library, on request of 25 resident taxpayers. The results
were most beneficial, the sole expense being five dollars for each library.

Travelling libraries, (mostly of fifty volumes each) have been set on foot in Massachusetts,
Michigan, Iowa, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and other States, and, as the system appears capable
of indefinite expansion, great results are anticipated in the direction of the public intelligence.
It is pointed out that while the State, by its free school system, trains all the people to
read, it should not leave the quality of their reading to chance or to utter neglect, when
a few cents per capita annually would help them to an education of inestimable value in after life.

Some objections, on the other hand, have been urged to the system, as introducing features
of paternalism into State government, and taking out of the hands of individual generosity
and local effort and enterprise what belongs properly to such agencies. The vexed question
of the proper function and limitations of State control in the domain of education cannot here
be entered upon.

In the volume last published of statistics of American libraries, that of 1897, great progress
was shown in the five years since 1891. The record of libraries reported in 1896 embraced 4,026
collections, being all which contained over 1,000 volumes each. The increase in volumes in
the five years was a little over seven millions, the aggregate of the 4,026 libraries being
33,051,872 volumes. This increase was over 27 per cent. in only five years.

If the good work so splendidly begun, in New England, New York, Pennsylvania, and some of the
Western States, in establishing libraries through public taxation and private munificence,
can only be extended in the Southern and Middle States, the century now about to dawn will
witness an advance quite as remarkable as we have seen in the latter years of the century about
to close.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] MS. Records of the Virginia Company, in the Library of Congress.

CHAPTER 16.

LIBRARY BUILDINGS AND FURNISHINGS.

Proceeding now to the subject of library buildings, reading-rooms, and furnishings, it must
be remarked at the outset that very few rules can be laid down which are of universal application.
The architectural plans, exterior and interior, of such great institutions as the Library of
Congress, or the Boston Public Library, with their costly marbles, splendid mural decorations,
and electric book-serving machinery, afford no model for the library building in the country
village. Where the government of a nation or a wealthy city has millions to devote for providing
a magnificent book-palace for its library, the smaller cities or towns have only a few thousands.
So much the more important is it, that a thoroughly well-considered plan for building should
be marked out before beginning to build, that no dollars should be wasted, or costly alterations
required, in order to fit the interior for all the uses of a library.

The need of this caution will be abundantly evident, in the light of the unfit and inconvenient
constructions seen in so many public libraries, all over the country. So general has been the
want of carefully planned and well-executed structures for books, that it may fairly be said
that mistakes have been the rule, and fit adaptation the exception. For twenty years past,
at every meeting of the American Library Association, the reports upon library buildings have
deplored the waste of money in well-meant edifices designed to accommodate the library service,
but successful only in obstructing it. Even in so recent a construction as the Boston Public
Library building, so many defects and inconveniences were found after it was supposed to have
been finished, that rooms had to be torn out and re-constructed on three floors, while the
pneumatic tube system had been found so noisy as to be a public nuisance, and had to be replaced
by a later improved construction.

One leading cause for the mistakes which are so patent in our library buildings is that they
are not planned by librarians but mainly by architects. The library authorities commonly take
it for granted that the able architect is master of his profession, and entrust him with the
whole design, leaving out of account the librarian, as a mere subordinate, entitled only to
secondary consideration. The result is a plan which exhibits, in its prominent features, the
architect's skill in effective pilasters, pillars, architraves, cornices, and balustrades,
while the library apartments which these features ornament are planned, not for convenient
and rapid book-service, but mainly for show. It is the interest of architects to magnify their
profession: and as none of them has ever been, or ever will be a librarian, they cannot be
expected to carry into effect unaided, what they have never learned; namely, the interior arrangements
which will best meet the utilities of the library service. Here is where the librarian's practical
experience, or his observation of the successes or failures in the reading-room and delivery
service of other libraries, should imperatively be called in. Let him demonstrate to the governing
board that he knows what is needed for prompt and economical administration, and they will
heed his judgment, if they are reasonable men. While it belongs to the architect to plan, according
to his own ideas, the outside of the building, the inside should be planned by the architect
in direct concert with the librarian, in all save merely ornamental or finishing work.

We do not erect a building and then determine whether it is to be a school house or a church:
it is planned from the start with strict reference to the utilities involved; and so should
it always be with a library.

In treating this subject, I shall not occupy space in outlining the proper scheme of building
and interior arrangement for a great library, with its many distinct departments, for such
institutions are the exceptions, while most libraries come within the rule of very moderate
size, and comparatively inexpensive equipment. The first requisite for a public library, then,
is a good location. It is important that this should be central, but it is equally important
that the building should be isolated--that is, with proper open space on all sides, and not
located in a block with other buildings. Many libraries have been destroyed or seriously damaged
by fire originating in neighboring buildings, or in other apartments in the same building;
while fires in separate library buildings have been extremely rare. It would be a wise provision
to secure a library lot sufficiently large in area to admit of further additions to the building,
both in the rear and at the side; and with slight addition to the cost, the walls and their
supports may be so planned as to admit of this. Committees are seldom willing to incur the
expense of an edifice large enough to provide for very prolonged growth of their collection;
and the result is that the country is full of overcrowded libraries, without money to build,
and prevented from expanding on the spot because no foresight was exercised in the original
construction or land purchase, to provide for ready increase of space by widening out, and
removing an outer wall so as to connect the old building with the new addition. If a library
has 10,000 volumes, it would be very short-sighted policy to plan an edifice to contain less
than 40,000, which it is likely to reach in from ten to forty years.

The next requisite to a central and sufficient site is that the location must be dry and airy.
Any low site, especially in river towns, will be damp, and among the enemies of books, moisture
holds a foremost place. Next, the site should afford light on all sides, and if necessary to
place it near any thoroughfare, it should be set back so as to afford ample light and ventilation
in front.

It need hardly be said that every library building should be fire-proof, after the many costly
lessons we have had of the burning of public libraries at home and abroad. The material for
the outside walls may be brick or stone, according to taste or relative cost. Brick is good
enough, and if of the best quality, and treated with stone trimmings, is capable of sufficiently
ornate effects, and is quite as durable as any granite or marble. No temptation of cheapness
should ever be allowed to introduce wood in any part of the construction: walls, floors, and
roof should be only of brick, stone, iron, or slate. A wooden roof is nothing but a tinder-box
that invites the flames.

In general, two stories is a sufficient height for library buildings, except in those of the
largest class, and the upper floors may be amply lighted by sky-lights. The side-lights can
hardly be too numerous: yet I have seen library buildings running back from a street fifty
to seventy-five feet, without a single window in either of the side walls. The result was to
throw all the books on shelves into a gloomy shade for many hours of each day.

The interior construction should be so managed as to effect the finding and delivery of books
to readers with the greatest possible economy of time and space. No shelves should be placed
higher than can be reached by hand without mounting upon any steps or ladders; i. e., seven
to seven and a half feet. The system of shelving should all be constructed of iron or steel,
instead of surrounding the books on three sides with combustible wood, as is done in most libraries.
Shelves of oxidized metal will be found smooth enough to prevent any abrasion of bindings.
Shelves should be easily adjustable to any height, to accommodate the various sizes of books.

In calculating shelf capacity, one and a half inches thickness a volume is a fair average,
so that each hundred volumes would require about thirteen feet of linear shelf measurement.
The space between uprights, that is, the length of each shelf, should not exceed two and a
half feet. All spaces between shelves should be 10½ or 11 inches high, to accommodate large
octavos indiscriminately with smaller sizes; and a base shelf for quartos and folios, at a
proper height from the floor, will restrict the number of shelves to six in each tier.

In the arrangement of the cases or book-stacks, the most economical method is to place book-cases
of double face, not less than three feet apart, approached by aisles on either side, so as
to afford free passage for two persons meeting or passing one another. The cases may be about
ten feet each in length. There should be electric lights between all cases, to be turned on
only when books are sought. The cases should be set at right angles to the wall, two or three
feet from it, with the light from abundant windows coming in between them. The width of shelves
may be from 16 to 18 inches in these double cases, thus giving about eight to nine inches depth
to each side. No partition is required between the two sides.

It should be stated that the light obtained from windows, when thrown more than twenty feet,
among cases of books on shelves, becomes too feeble for effective use in finding books. This
fact should be considered in advance, while plans of construction, lighting, and interior arrangement
are being made. All experience has shown that too much light cannot be had in any public library.

Railings and stair-cases for the second or upper floors should be of perforated iron.

The reading-room should be distinct from the book delivery or charging-room, to secure quiet
for readers at all hours, avoiding the pressure, hurry and noise of conversation inevitable
in a lending library or department. In the reading-room should be shelved a liberal supply
of books of reference, and bibliographies, open without tickets to the readers. Next the central
desk there should be shelves for the deposit of books reserved day by day for the use of readers.
The library chairs, of whatever pattern may be preferred, should always combine the two requisites
of strength and lightness. The floor should be covered with linoleum, or some similar floor
covering, to deaden sound. Woolen carpets, those perennial breeders of dust, are an abomination.

In a library reading-room of any considerable size, each reader should be provided with table
or desk room, not flat but sloping at a moderate angle, and allowing about three feet of space
for each reader. These appliances for study need not be single pieces of furniture, but made
in sections to accommodate from three to six readers at each. About thirty inches from the
floor is a proper height.

For large dictionaries, atlases, or other bulky volumes, the adjustable revolving case, mounted
on a pedestal, should be used.

For moving any large number of volumes about the library, book-trucks or barrows, with noiseless
rubber wheels, are required.

Every library will need one or more catalogue cases to hold the alphabetical card catalogue.
These are made with a maximum of skill by the Library Bureau, Boston.

The location of the issue-counter or desk is of cardinal importance. It should be located near
the centre of the system of book-cases, or near the entrance to the stack, so as to minimize
the time consumed in collecting the books wanted. It should also have a full supply of light,
and this may be secured by a location directly in front of a large side window. Readers are
impatient of delay, and the farther the books are from the issue-counter the longer they will
have to wait for them.

Among modern designs for libraries, that of Dr. W. F. Poole, adapted for the Newberry Library,
Chicago, is notable for dividing the library into many departments or separate rooms, the book
shelves occupying one half the height of each, or 7½ feet out of 15, the remaining space being
occupied by windows. This construction, of course, does not furnish as compact storage for
books as the stack system. It is claimed to possess the advantage of extraordinarily good light,
and of aiding the researches of readers. But it has the disadvantage of requiring readers to
visit widely separated rooms to pursue studies involving several subjects, and of mounting
in elevators to reach some departments. A system which brings the books to the reader, instead
of the readers travelling after the books, would appear to be more practically useful to the
public, with whom time is of cardinal importance.

In all libraries, there should be a receiving or packing room, where boxes and parcels of books
are opened and books mended, collated, and prepared for the shelves. This room may well be
in a dry and well lighted basement. Two small cloak-rooms for wraps will be needed, one for
each sex. Two toilet rooms or lavatories should be provided. A room for the library directors
or trustees, and one for the librarian, are essential in libraries of much extent. A janitor's
room or sleeping quarters sometimes needs to be provided. A storage room for blanks, stationery,
catalogues, etc., will be necessary in libraries of much extent. A periodical room is sometimes
provided, distinct from the reading-room or the delivery department. In this case, if several
hundred periodicals are taken, an attendant should be always present to serve them to readers,
from the shelves or cases where they should be kept in alphabetical order. Without this, and
a ticket system to keep track of what are in use, no one can readily find what is needed, nor
ascertain whether it is in a reader's hands when sought for. System and the alphabet alone
will solve all difficulties.

As to the space required for readers in a periodical room, it may be assumed that about five
hundred square feet will accommodate twenty-five readers, and the same proportion for a larger
number at one time. A room twenty-five by forty would seat fifty readers, while one twenty-five
by twenty would accommodate twenty-five readers, with proper space for tables, &c. The files
for newspapers are referred to in another chapter on periodicals.

In a library building, the heating and ventilation are of prime importance. Upon their proper
regulation largely depends the health and consequently the efficiency of all employed, as well
as the comfort of the reading public. There is no space to enter upon specific descriptions,
for which the many conflicting systems, with experience of their practical working, should
be examined. Suffice it to say in general, that a temperature not far below nor above 70 degrees
Fahrenheit should be aimed at; that the furnace, with its attendant nuisances of noise, dust,
and odors, should be outside the library building--not under it; and that electric lighting
alone should be used, gas being highly injurious to the welfare of books.

In calculating the space required for books shelved as has been heretofore suggested, it may
be approximately stated that every one thousand volumes will require at least eighty to one
hundred square feet of floor measurement. Thus, a library of 10,000 volumes would occupy an
area of nearly one thousand square feet. But it is necessary to provide also for the continual
growth of the collection. To do this, experience shows that in any flourishing public library,
space should be reserved for three or four times the number of volumes in actual possession.
If rooms are hired for the books, because of inability to build, the library should be so arranged
as to leave each alternate shelf vacant for additions, or, in the more rapidly growing divisions,
a still greater space. This will permit accessions to be shelved with their related books,
without the trouble of frequently moving and re-arranging large divisions of the library. This
latter is a very laborious process, and should be resorted to only under compulsion. The preventive
remedy, of making sure of space in advance, by leaving a sufficiency of unoccupied shelves
in every division of the library, is the true one.

In some libraries, a separate reading-room for ladies is provided. Mr. W. F. Poole records
that in Cincinnati such a room was opened at the instance of the library directors. The result
was that the ladies made it a kind of social rendezvous, where they talked over society matters,
and exhibited the bargains made in their shopping excursions. Ladies who came to study preferred
the general reading room, where they found every comfort among well conducted gentlemen, and
the "ladies' reading-room" was abandoned, as not fulfilling its object. The same experiment
in the Chicago Public Library had the same result.

Some libraries in the larger towns provide a special reading-room for children; and this accomplishes
a two-fold object, namely, to keep the public reading-room free from flocks of little people
in pursuit of books under difficulties, and to furnish the boys and girls with accommodations
of their own. It may be suggested as an objection, that the dividing line as to age is difficult
to be drawn: but let each applicant be questioned, and if falling below twelve, or fifteen,
or whatever the age limit may be, directed to the juvenile reading-room, and there need be
no trouble. Of course there will be some quite young readers who are gifted with intelligence
beyond their years, and who may dislike to be reckoned as children; but library rules are not
made to suit exceptions, but for the average; and as no book need be refused to any applicant
in the juvenile department, no just cause of complaint can arise.

In some libraries, and those usually of the larger size, an art room is provided, where students
of works on painting, sculpture, and the decorative arts can go, and have about them whatever
treasures the library may contain in that attractive field. The advantages of this provision
are, first, to save the necessity of handling and carrying so many heavy volumes of galleries
of art and illustrated books to the general reading-room, and back again, and secondly, to
enable those in charge of the art department to exercise more strict supervision in enforcing
careful and cleanly treatment of the finest books in the library, than can be maintained in
the miscellaneous crowd of readers in the main reading-room. The objections to it concern the
general want of room to set apart for this purpose, and the desirability of concentrating the
use of books in one main hall or reading-room. Circumstances and experience should determine
the question for each library.

Some public libraries, and especially those constructed in recent years, are provided with
a lecture-hall, or a large room for public meetings, concerts, or occasionally, even an opera-house,
in the same building with the library. There are some excellent arguments in favor of this;
and especially where a public benefactor donates to a city a building which combines both uses.
The building given by Mr. Andrew Carnegie to the Public Library of Washington will be provided
with a small hall suited to meetings, &c. But in all cases, such a public hall should be so
isolated from the library reading-room as not to annoy readers, to whom quiet is essential.
This end can be effected by having the intervening walls and floors so constructed as completely
to deaden sound. A wholly distinct entrance should also be provided, not communicating with
the doors and passages leading to the library.

Comparisons are sometimes made as to the relative cost of library buildings to the number of
volumes they are designed to accommodate; but such estimates are misleading. The cost of an
edifice in which architectural beauty and interior decoration concur to make it a permanent
ornament to a city or town, need not be charged up at so much per volume. Buildings for libraries
have cost all the way from twenty-five cents up to $4. for each volume stored. The Library
of Congress, which cost six million dollars, and will ultimately accommodate 4,500,000 volumes,
cost about $1.36 per volume. But it contains besides books, some half a million musical compositions,
works of graphic art, maps and charts, etc.

The comparative cost of some library buildings erected in recent years, with ultimate capacity
of each, may be of interest. Kansas City Public Library, 132+144, 125,000 vols., $200,000.
Newark, N. J. Free Library, 138+216, 400,000 vols., $188,000. Forbes Library, Northampton,
Mass. (granite), 107+137, 250,000 vols., $134,000. Fall River, Ms. Library, 80+130, 250,000
vols., $100,000. Peoria, Ill. Public Library (brick), 76+135, $70,000. Smiley Memorial Library,
Redlands, Cal. (brick), 96+100, $50,000. Reuben Hoar Library, Littleton, Mass. (brick), 50+57,
25,000 vols., $25,000. Rogers Memorial Library, Southworth, N. Y. 70+100, 20,000 vols., $20,000.
Belfast (Me.) Free Library (granite), 27+54, $10,000. Gail-Borden Public Library, Elgin, Ill.
(brick), 28+52, $9,000. Warwick, Mass. Public Library (wood), 45+60, 5,000 vols., $5,000.

The largely increased number of public library buildings erected in recent years is a most
cheering sign of the times. Since 1895, eleven extensive new library buildings have been opened:
namely, the Library of Congress, the Boston Public Library, the Pratt Institute Library, Brooklyn,
the Columbia University Library, New York, the Princeton, N. J. University Library, the Hart
Memorial Library, of Troy, N. Y., the Carnegie Library, Pittsburgh, the Chicago Public Library,
the Peoria, Ill. Public Library, the Kansas City, Mo. Public Library, and the Omaha, Neb. Public
Library.

And there are provided for eight more public library buildings, costing more than $100,000
each; namely, the Providence, R. I. Public Library, the Lynn, Mass. Public Library, the Fall
River, Mass. Public Library, the Newark, N. J. Free Public Library, the Milwaukee, Wis. Public
Library and Museum, the Wisconsin State Historical Society Library, Madison, the New York Public
Library, and the Jersey City Public Library.

To these will be added within the year 1900, as is confidently expected, the Washington City
Public Library, the gift of Andrew Carnegie, to cost $300,000.

No philanthropist can ever find a nobler object for his fortune, or a more enduring monument
to his memory, than the founding of a free public library. The year 1899 has witnessed a new
gift by Mr. Carnegie of a one hundred thousand dollar library to Atlanta, the Capital of Georgia,
on condition that the city will provide a site, and $5,000 a year for the maintenance of the
library. Cities in the east are emulating one another in providing public library buildings
of greater or less cost. If the town library cannot have magnificence, it need not have meanness.
A competition among architects selected to submit plans is becoming the favorite method of
preparing to build. Five of the more extensive libraries have secured competitive plans of
late from which to select--namely, the New York Public Library, the Jersey City Public Library,
the Newark Free Public Library, the Lynn Public Library, and the Phoebe Hearst building for
the University of California, which is to be planned for a library of 750,000 volumes.

CHAPTER 17.

LIBRARY MANAGERS OR TRUSTEES.

We now come to consider the management of libraries as entrusted to boards of directors, trustees
or library managers. These relations have a most intimate bearing upon the foundation, the
progress and the consequent success of any library. Where a liberal intelligence and a hearty
coöperation are found in those constituting the library board, the affairs of the institution
will be managed with the best results. Where a narrow-minded and dictatorial spirit is manifested,
even by a portion of those supervising a public library, it will require a large endowment
both of patience and of tact in the librarian, to accomplish those aims which involve the highest
usefulness.

Boards of library trustees vary in number, usually from three to nine or more. A board of three
or five is found in practice more active and efficient than a larger number. The zeal and responsibility
felt is apt to diminish in direct proportion to the increased numbers of the board. An odd
number is preferable, to avoid an equal division of opinion upon any question to be determined.

In town or city libraries, the mode of selection of library trustees varies much. Sometimes
the mayor appoints the library board, sometimes they are chosen by the city council, and sometimes
elected by the people, at the annual selection of school or municipal officers. The term of
service (most usually three years) should be so arranged that retirement of any members should
always leave two at least who have had experience on the board. Library trustees serve without
salary, the high honor of so serving the public counting for much.

The librarian is often made secretary of the trustees, and then he keeps the record of their
transactions. He should never be made treasurer of the library funds, which would involve labor
and responsibility incompatible with the manifold duties of the superintendent of a library.
In case of a library supported by municipal taxation, the town treasurer may well serve as
library treasurer also, or the trustees can choose one from their own board. The librarian,
however, should be empowered to collect book fines or other dues, to be deposited with the
treasurer at regular intervals, and he should have a small fund at disposal for such petty
library expenses as constantly arise. All bills for books and other purchases, and all salaries
of persons employed in the library should be paid by the treasurer.

The meetings of the trustees should be attended by the librarian, who must always be ready
to supply all information as to the workings of the library, the needs for books, etc. Frequently
the trustees divide up the business before them, appointing sub-committees on book selections,
on library finances, on administration, furnishings, &c., with a view to prompt action.

If a library receives endowments, money gifts or legacies, they are held and administered by
the trustees as a body corporate, the same as the funds annually appropriated for library maintenance
and increase. Their annual report to the council, or municipal authorities, should exhibit
the amount of money received from all sources in detail, and the amount expended for all purposes,
in detail; also, the number of books purchased in the year, the aggregate of volumes in the
library, the number of readers, and other facts of general interest.

All accounts against the library are first audited by the proper sub-committee, and payment
ordered by the full board, by order on the treasurer. The accounts for all these expenditures
should be kept by the treasurer, who should inform the librarian periodically as to balances.

The selection of books for a public library is a delicate and responsible duty, involving wider
literary and scientific knowledge than falls to the lot of most trustees of libraries. There
are sometimes specially qualified professional men or widely read scholars on such boards,
whose services in recruiting the library are of great value. More frequently there are one
or more men with hobbies, who would spend the library funds much too freely upon a class of
books of no general interest. Thus, one trustee who plays golf may urge the purchase of all
the various books upon that game, when one or at most two of the best should supply all needful
demands. Another may want to add to the library about all the published books on the horse;
another, who is a physician, may recommend adding a lot of medical books to the collection,
utterly useless to the general reader. Beware of the man who has a hobby, either as librarian
or as library trustee; he will aim to expend too much money on books which suit his own taste,
but which have little general utility. Two mischiefs result from such a course: the library
gets books which very few people read, and its funds are diverted from buying many books that
may be of prime importance.

Trustees, although usually, (at least the majority of them) persons of culture and intelligence,
cannot be expected to be bibliographers, nor to be familiar with the great range of new books
that continually pour from the press. They have their own business or profession to engage
them, and are commonly far too busy to study catalogues, or to follow the journals of the publishing
world. So these busy men, charged with the oversight of the library interests, call to their
aid an expert, and that expert is the librarian. It is his interest and his business to know
far more than they do both of what the library already contains, and what it most needs. It
is his to peruse the critical journals and reviews, as well as the literary notices of the
select daily press, and to be prepared to recommend what works to purchase. He must always
accompany his lists of wants with the prices, or at least the approximate cost of each, and
the aggregate amount. If the trustees or book committee think the sum too large to be voted
at any one time from the fund at their disposal, the librarian must know what can best be postponed,
as well as what is most indispensable for the immediate wants of the library. If they object
to any works on the list, he should be prepared to explain the quality and character of those
called in question, and why the library, in his judgment, should possess them. If the list
is largely cut down, and he considers himself hardly used, he should meet the disappointment
with entire good humor, and try again when the members of the committee are in better mood,
or funds in better supply.

It is very customary for boards of library officers to assume the charge of the administration
so far as regards the library staff, and to make appointments, promotions or removals at their
own pleasure. In most libraries, however, this power is exercised mainly on the advice or selection
of the librarian, his action being confirmed when there is no serious objection. In still other
cases, the librarian is left wholly free to choose the assistants. This is perhaps the course
most likely to secure efficient service, since his judgment, if he is a person of tried capacity
and mature experience, will lead to the selection of the fittest candidates, for the work which
he alone thoroughly knows. No library trustee can put himself fully in the place of a librarian,
and see for himself the multitude of occasions arising in the daily work of the library, where
promptness, tact, and wide knowledge of books will make a success, and the want of any of these
qualities a failure. Still less can he judge the competency or incompetency of one who is to
be employed in the difficult and exact work of cataloguing books. Besides, there is always
the hazard that trustees, or some of them, may have personal favorites or relatives to prefer,
and will use their influence to secure the appointment or promotion of utterly uninstructed
persons, in place of such candidates as are known to the librarian to be best qualified. In
no case should any person be employed without full examination as to fitness for library work,
conducted either by the librarian, or by a committee of which the librarian is a member or
chief examiner. A probationary trial should also follow before final appointment.

The power of patronage, if unchecked by this safeguard, will result in filling any library
with incompetents, to the serious detriment of the service on which its usefulness depends.
The librarian cannot keep a training school for inexperts: he has no time for this, and he
indispensably needs and should have assistants who are competent to their duties, from their
first entrance upon them. As he is held responsible for all results, in the conduct of the
library, both by the trustees and by the public, he should have the power, or at least the
approximate power, to select the means by which those results are to be attained.

In the Boston Public Library, all appointments are made by the trustees upon nomination by
the librarian, after an examination somewhat similar to that of the civil service, but by a
board of library experts. In the British Museum Library, the selection and promotion of members
of the staff are passed upon by the trustees, having the recommendation of the principal librarian
before them. In the Library of Congress, appointments are made directly by the librarian after
a probationary trial, with previous examination as to education, former experience or employments,
attainments, and fitness for library service.

In smaller libraries, both in this country and abroad, a great diversity of usage prevails.
Instances are rare in which the librarian has the uncontrolled power of appointment, promotion
and removal. The requirement of examinations to test the fitness of candidates is extending,
and since the establishment of five or six permanent schools of library science in the United
States, with their graduates well equipped for library work, there is no longer any excuse
for putting novices in charge of libraries--institutions where wide knowledge and thorough
training are more indispensable than in any other profession whatever.

In State libraries, no uniformity prevails as to control. In some States, the governor has
the appointment of the librarian, while in others, he is an elective officer, the State Legislature
being the electors. As governors rarely continue in office longer than two or three years,
the tenure of a librarian under them is precarious, and a most valuable officer may at any
time be superseded by another who would have to learn all that the other knows. The result
is rarely favorable to the efficient administration of the library. In a business absolutely
demanding the very largest compass of literary and scientific knowledge, frequent rotation
in office is clearly out of place. In a public or State library, every added year of experience
adds incalculably to the value of a librarian's services, provided he is of active habits,
and full of zeal to make his acquired knowledge constantly useful to those who use the library.
Partizan politics, with their frequent changes, if suffered to displace a tried librarian and
staff, will be sure to defeat the highest usefulness of any library. What can a political appointee,
a man totally without either library training or library experience, do with the tools of which
he has never learned the use? It will take him years to learn, and by the time he has learned,
some other political party coming uppermost will probably displace him, to make room for another
novice, on the principle that "to the victors belong the spoils" of office. Meanwhile, "the
hungry sheep look up and are not fed," as Milton sings--that is, readers are deprived of expert
and intelligent guidance.

This bane of political jobbery has not been confined to the libraries of States, but has invaded
the management of many city and town libraries also. We have yet to learn of any benefit resulting
to those who use the libraries.

In the case of a few of the State libraries, trustees or library commissioners or boards of
control have been provided by law, but in others, a joint library committee, composed of members
of both houses of the Legislature, has charge of the library interests. This is also the case
in the Library of Congress at Washington, where three Senators and three Representatives constitute
the Joint Committee of both Houses of Congress on the Library. The membership of this committee,
as of all others in Congress, is subject to change biennially. It has been proposed to secure
a more permanent and careful supervision of this National Library by adding to the Joint Committee
of Congress three or more trustees of eminent qualifications, elected by Congress, as the Regents
of the Smithsonian Institution now are, for a longer term of years. The trustees of the British
Museum are appointed by the Crown, their tenure of office being for life.

In several States the librarian is appointed by the supreme court, as the State libraries are
composed more largely of law books, than of miscellaneous literature, and special knowledge
of case law, and the principles of jurisprudence, is demanded of the librarian.

Where the trustees of a public library are elected by the people, they have in their own hands
the power of choosing men who are far above party considerations, and they should exercise
it. In no department of life is the maxim--"the tools to the hands that can use them," more
important than in the case of librarians and boards of managers of libraries. The value of
skilled labor over the unskilled is everywhere recognized in the business of the world, by
more certain employment and larger compensation: and why should it not be so in libraries?

CHAPTER 18.

LIBRARY REGULATIONS.

No feature in library administration is more important than the regulations under which the
service of the library is conducted. Upon their propriety and regular enforcement depends very
much of the utility of the collection.

Rules are of two kinds, those which concern the librarian and assistants, and those which concern
the public resorting to the library. Of the first class are the regulations as to hours, division
of labor, leaves or vacations of employees, &c. The larger the library, and consequently the
force employed, the more important is a careful adjustment of relative duties, and of the times
and seasons to be devoted to them. The assignment of work to the various assistants will naturally
depend upon their respective qualifications. Those who know Latin, and two or more of the modern
languages, would probably be employed upon the catalogue. Those who are familiar with the range
of books published, in literature and science, will be best qualified for the service of the
reading-room, which involves the supply of books and information. In direct proportion to the
breadth of information possessed by any one, will be his usefulness in promptly supplying the
wants of readers. Nothing is so satisfactory to students in libraries, or to the casual seekers
of information of any kind, as to find their wants immediately supplied. The reader whom an
intelligent librarian or assistant answers at once is grateful to the whole establishment;
while the reader who is required to wait ten to twenty minutes for what he wants, becomes impatient
and sometimes querulous, or leaves the library unsatisfied.

One rule of service at the library desk or counter should be that every assistant there employed
should deem it his duty to aid immediately any one who is waiting, no matter what other concerns
may engage his attention. In other words, the one primary rule of a public library should be
that the service of the public is always paramount. All other considerations should be subordinate
to that.

It is desirable that assistants in every library should learn all departments of library work,
cataloguing, supplying books and information, preparing books for the shelves, etc. This will
enable each assistant to take the place of another in case of absence, a most important point.
It will also help to qualify the more expert for promotion.

A second rule for internal administration in any library should be that all books are to be
distributed, or replaced upon their shelves, daily. If this is not systematically done, the
library will tend to fall into chaos. And even a small number of volumes not in their places
will embarrass the attendants seeking them, and often deprive readers of their use--a thing
to be always sedulously avoided.

In the Library of Congress, the replacement of books upon the shelves is carried out much more
frequently than once daily. As fast as books come in at the central desk by the returns of
readers, they are sent back through the book-carriers, to the proper floors, where the outside
label-numbers indicate that they belong, and replaced by the attendant there on their proper
shelves. These mechanical book-carriers run all day, by electric power, supplied by a dynamo
in the basement, and, with their endless chain and attached boxes constantly revolving, they
furnish a near approach to perpetual motion. Thus I have seen a set of Macaulay's England,
called for by ticket from the reading-room, arrive in three minutes from the outlying book-repository
or iron stack, several hundreds of feet distant on an upper floor, placed on the reader's table,
referred to, and returned at once, then placed in the book-carrier by the desk attendant, received
back on its proper floor, and distributed to its own shelf by the attendant there, all within
half an hour after the reader's application. Another rule to be observed by the reading-room
attendants is to examine all call-slips, or readers' tickets, remaining uncalled for at the
close of each day's business, and see if the books on them are present in the library. This
precaution is demanded by the security of the collection, as well as by the good order and
arrangement of the library. Neglect of it may lead to losses or misplacements, which might
be prevented by careful and unremitting observance of this rule.

Another rule of eminent propriety is that librarians or assistants are not to read newspapers
during library hours. When there happen to be no readers waiting to be helped, the time should
be constantly occupied with other library work. There is no library large enough to be worthy
of the name, that does not have arrears of work incessantly waiting to be done. And while this
is the case, no library time should be wasted upon periodicals, which should be perused only
outside of library hours. If one person employed in a library reads the newspaper or magazine,
the bad example is likely to be followed by others. Thus serious inattention to the wants of
readers, as well as neglect of library work postponed, will be sure to follow.

A fourth rule, resting upon the same reason, should prevent any long sustained gossip or conversation
during library hours. That time belongs explicitly to the public or to the work of the library.
The rule of silence which is enforced upon the public in the interest of readers should not
be broken by the library managers themselves. Such brief question and answer as emergency or
the needful business of the library requires should be conducted in a low tone, and soon ended.
Library administration is a business, and must be conducted in a business way. No library can
properly be turned into a place of conversation.

All differences or disputes between attendants as to the work to be done by each, or methods,
or any other question leading to dissension, should be promptly and decisively settled by the
librarian, and of course cheerfully submitted to by all. Good order and discipline require
that there should be only one final authority in any library. Controversies are not only unseemly
in themselves, but they are time-consuming, and are liable to be overheard by readers, to the
prejudice of those who engage in them.

Another rule to be observed is to examine all books returned, as carefully as a glance through
the volume will permit, to detect any missing or started leaves, or injury to bindings. No
volume bearing marks of dilapidation of any kind should be permitted to go back to the shelves,
or be given to readers, but placed in a bindery reserve for needful repairs.

It should hardly be necessary to say that all those connected with a public library should
be carefully observant of hours, and be always in their places, unless excused. The discipline
of every library should be firm in this respect, and dilatory or tardy assistants brought to
regard the rule of prompt and regular service. "No absence without leave" should be mentally
posted in the consciousness and the conscience of every one.

Another rule should limit the time for mid-day refreshment, and so arrange it that the various
persons employed go at different hours. As to time employed, half-an-hour for lunch, as allowed
in the Washington departments, is long enough in any library.

Furloughs or vacations should be regulated to suit the library service, and not allow several
to be absent at the same time. As to length of vacation time, few libraries can afford the
very liberal fashion of twelve months wages for eleven months work, as prevalent in the Washington
Departments. The average vacation time of business houses--about two weeks--more nearly corresponds
to that allowed in the smaller public libraries. Out of 173 libraries reporting in 1893, 61
allowed four weeks or more vacation, 27 three weeks, 54 two weeks, and 31 none. But in cases
of actual illness, the rule of liberality should be followed, and no deduction of wages should
follow temporary disability.

Where many library attendants are employed, all should be required to enter on a daily record
sheet or book, the hour of beginning work. Then the rule of no absence without special leave
should be enforced as to all during the day.

We now come to such rules of library administration as concern the readers, or the public.
The rule of silence, or total abstinence from loud talking, should be laid down and enforced.
This is essential for the protection of every reader from annoyance or interruption in his
pursuits. The rule should be printed on all readers' tickets, and it is well also to post the
word SILENCE, in large letters, in two or more conspicuous places in the reading-room. This
will give a continual reminder to all of what is expected, and will usually prevent any loud
conversation. While absolute silence is impossible in any public library, the inquiries and
answers at the desk can always be made in a low and even tone, which need attract no attention
from any readers, if removed only a few feet distant. As there are always persons among readers
who will talk, notwithstanding rules, they should be checked by a courteous reminder from the
librarian, rather than from any subordinate. This--for the obvious reason that admonition from
the highest authority carries the greatest weight.

Another rule, which should always be printed on the call-slips, or readers' tickets, is the
requirement to return books and receive back their tickets always before leaving the library.
This duty is very commonly neglected, from the utter carelessness of many readers, who do not
realize that signing their ticket for any book holds them responsible for it until it is returned.
Many are unwilling to spend a moment's time in waiting for a ticket to be returned to them.
Many will leave their books on tables or seats where they were reading, and go away without
reclaiming their receipts. While complete observance of this rule is of course hopeless of
attainment in a country where free and easy manners prevail, every librarian should endeavor
to secure at least an approximate compliance with a rule adopted alike for the security and
good order of the library, and the efficient service of the reader.

All readers should be privileged to reserve books from day to day which they have not completed
the use of, and instructed always to give notice of such reservation before leaving the library.
This saves much time, both to the reader and to the librarian in sending repeatedly for books
put away needlessly.

In a circulating library, a fixed rule limiting the time for which a book may be kept, is essential.
This may be from three days to two weeks, according to the demand for the book, but it should
not exceed the latter period. Still, a renewal term may be conceded, provided the book is not
otherwise called for. A small fine of so much a day for each volume kept out beyond the time
prescribed by the rule, will often secure prompt return, and is the usage in most libraries
where books are lent out. In the Boston Public Library no renewals are allowed. A rule requiring
the replacement or repair of books damaged while in the hands of a reader should be printed
and enforced. It may properly be waived where the damage is slight or unavoidable.

In public circulating libraries, a rule of registration is required, and in some libraries
of reference also; but in the Library of Congress all readers over sixteen are admitted without
any formality or registration whatever.

In popular libraries, the need of a registry list of those entitled to borrow books, is obvious,
to prevent the issue to improper or unauthorized persons; as, for example, residents of another
town, or persons under the prescribed age of admission to library privileges. A printed library
card should be issued to each person privileged to draw books; corresponding in number to the
page or index-card of the library record. Each card should bear the full name and address of
the applicant, and be signed with an obligation to obey the rules of the library. On this card
all books drawn may be entered, always with month and day date, and credited with date of return,
the parallel entries being at the same time made in the library charging record.

Library cards of registration should be issued for a limited period, say twelve months, in
order to bring all persons to a systematic review of their privilege, and should be renewed
annually, so long as the holder is entitled to registration. No books should be issued except
to those presenting registration cards, together with a call-slip or ticket for the book wanted.

Another rule should fix a limit to the number of volumes to be drawn by any reader. Two volumes
out at any one time would be a fair limit. If made more to all readers, there is likely to
be sometimes a scarcity of books to be drawn upon; and if a few readers are permitted to draw
more than others, the charge of undue favoritism will be justified.

Another rule should be that any incivility or neglect on the part of any library attendant
should be reported to the librarian. In such cases, the attendant should always be heard, before
any admonition or censure is bestowed.

An almost necessary rule in most libraries is that no book should be taken from the shelves
by any person not employed in the library. The exceptions are of course, the books provided
expressly for the free and open reference of the readers.

Another essential rule is that no writing or marks may be made in any library book or periodical;
nor is any turning down of leaves permitted. A printed warning is important to the effect that
any cutting or defacing of library books or periodicals is a penal offense, and will be prosecuted
according to law.

The regulations for admission to library privileges are important. In this country the age
limitation is more liberal than in Europe. The Boston Public Library, for example, is free
to all persons over twelve years of age. In the Library of Congress, the age limit is sixteen
years or upward, to entitle one to the privileges of a reader. In the Astor Library, none are
admitted under nineteen, and in the British Museum Library none below twenty-one years.

The hours during which the library is open should be printed as part of the regulations.

All the library rules should be printed and furnished to the public. The most essential of
them, if carefully expressed in few words, can be grouped in a single small sheet, of 16mo.
size or less, and pasted in the inside cover of every book belonging to the library. Better
still, (and it will save expense in printing) let the few simple rules, in small but legible
type, form a part of the book plate, or library label, which goes on the left-hand inner cover
of each volume. Thus every reader will have before him, in daily prominence, the regulations
which he is to observe, and no excuse can be pleaded of ignorance of the rules.

As no law is ever long respected unless it is enforced, so no regulations are likely to be
observed unless adhered to in every library. Rules are a most essential part of library administration,
and it should be a primary object of every librarian or assistant to see that they are observed
by all.

CHAPTER 19.

LIBRARY REPORTS AND ADVERTISING.

We now come to consider the annual reports of librarians. These should be made to the trustees
or board of library control, by whatever name it may be known, and should be addressed to the
chairman, as the organ of the board. In the preparation of such reports, two conditions are
equally essential--conciseness and comprehensiveness. Every item in the administration, frequentation,
and increase of the library should be separately treated, but each should be condensed into
the smallest compass consistent with clear statement. Very long reports are costly to publish,
and moreover, have small chance of being read. In fact, the wide perusal of any report is in
direct proportion to its brevity.

This being premised, let us see what topics the librarian's report should deal with.

