But Bryant's claims to the honors of a truly national poet do not rest solely upon the fidelity
with which he has described the peculiar scenery of his native land, for no poet has expressed
with more earnestness of conviction and more beauty of language the great ideas which have
moulded our political institutions and our social life. Before the breaking out of the Civil
War he was a member of that great political party of which Jefferson was the head, and he is
still a Democrat in the primitive sense of the word; that is to say, he believes in man's capacity
for self-government, and in his right to govern himself. He has full trust in human progress;
age has not lessened the faith with which he looks forward to the future; his sympathies are
with the many, and not with the few. Though he has travelled much in Europe, his imagination
has been but little affected by the forms of beauty and grandeur which past ages have bequeathed
to the present. He has not found inspiration in the palace, the cathedral, the ruined castle,
the ivy-covered church, the rose-embowered cottage. Indeed, it is only by incidental and occasional
touches that one would learn from his poetry that he had ever been out of his own country at
all: his inspiration and his themes are alike drawn from the scenery, the institutions, the
history of his native land. His imagination, as was the case with Milton, rests upon a basis
of gravity deepening into sternness; and we have little doubt that not a few of the things
in Europe, which move to pleasure the lightly stirred fancy of many American travellers, aroused
in him a different feeling, as either memorials of an age or expressions of a system in which
the many were sacrificed to the few. In his mental frame there is a pulse of indignation which
is easily stirred against any form of injustice or oppression. His later poems, as might naturally
be expected, are those in which the sentiments and aspirations of a patriotic and hopeful American
are most distinctly expressed; among them are "The Battle-Field," "The Winds," "The Antiquity
of Freedom," and that which is called, from its first line, "O Mother of a Mighty Race." It
would be well to read these poems in connection with the seventeenth chapter of the second
volume of De Tocqueville's "Democracy in America," which treats of the sources of poetry among
democratic nations; and the comparison will furnish fresh cause for admiring the prophetic
sagacity of that great philosophical thinker, who, at the time he wrote, predicted all our
future, because he comprehended all our past.

And here we pray the indulgence of our readers to a rather liberal citation from one of these
later poems, because it enables us to illustrate from his own lips what we have just been saying.
It is also one of those passages, not uncommon in modern poetry, in which the poet admits us
to his confidence, and lets us see the working of the machinery as well as its product.

What a lovely picture is this of the Manitou of flowers, and what a subject for an artist to
embody in forms and colors! The whole passage is very beautiful, and its beauty is in part
derived from its truth. It meets the requisitions of the philosophical understanding, as well
as of the shaping and aggregating fancy. The poetry is manly, masculine, and simple. The ornaments
are of pure gold, such as will bear the test of open daylight.

It is the function of the critic to discriminate and divide, and we have attempted to deal
thus with the poems of Bryant; but some of the best of his productions cannot be classified
and arranged under any particular head. They breathe the spirit of universal humanity, and
speak a language intelligible to every human heart. Among these are "The Evening Wind," "The
Conqueror's Grave," and "The Future Life." All of these are exquisite alike in conception and
execution. We suppose that most persons have in regard to poetry certain fancies, whims, preferences,
founded on reasons too delicate to be revealed or too airy to be expressed. As Mrs. Battles
in a moment of confidence confessed to "Elia" that hearts was her favorite suit, so we breathe
in the ear of the public an acknowledgment, that, of all Bryant's poems, "The Future Life"
is that which we read the most frequently, and with the deepest feeling. We say read, but we
have known it by heart for years. We will not affirm that it is the best of his poems, but
it is that which moves us most, and which we feel most grateful to him for having written.
The grace and charm of this poem come from regions beyond the range of literary criticism,
and the heart shrinks from making a revelation of the emotions which it awakens.

We have left ourselves but little room to speak of the new volume, called "Thirty Poems," which
lies before us. While nothing in it was needed for the poet's well-established and enduring
fame, it will be welcomed by all his admirers as an accession to that stock of finished poetry
which the world will not let die. Here we find the same dignity of sentiment, the same fine
observation, the same grace of expression, as in the productions of his youth and manhood.
The tone of thought is grave, earnest, sometimes pensive, but never querulous or desponding.
Declining years have not abated in him a jot of heart or hope. His is the Indian-summer of
the mind, made genial by soft airs and golden sunshine, by green meadows and lingering flowers;
and still far distant is the time,--to borrow a noble image from this very volume,--

  "When, upon the hill-side, all hardened into iron,
  Howling, like a wolf, flies the famished northern blast."

All honor to the strong-hearted singer who, in the late autumn of life, retains his love of
Nature, his hatred of injustice and oppression, his sympathy with humanity, his intellectual
activity, his faith in progress, his trust in God!

       *       *       *       *       *

ANNESLEY HALL AND NEWSTEAD ABBEY.

The picturesque region of Matlock, with its cliffs and streams, its deep woods and romantic
walks, is full of attraction. There we not only see the outward graces of Nature, but catch
glimpses of her subtler elements. Springs, dripping from hidden sources, transform the fruit,
or the bird's-nest with its fragile eggs, into stone with a Medusa touch; while in deep caverns
are found beautiful spars, exquisitely tinted, as if prepared by the genii of the rock for
the palace of their king.

Varied and wonderful are the workings of earth, air, fire, and water in the Derbyshire valley,
where a sensitive nature recognizes more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in the
philosophy of many a passing traveller. To this region of beauty and mystery Byron often came
in his youth. These cliffs and streams and woods were familiar to the young poet, and his retentive
memory must have received here many of Nature's deep and marvellous lessons. Perhaps among
these scenes there came to him those

            "noble aspirations in his youth
  To make his mind the mind of other men,
  The enlightener of nations, and to rise
  He know not whither, it might be to fall,
  But fall, even as the mountain-cataract,
  Which, having leapt from its more dazzling height,
  Lies low, but mighty still."

In Byron's day, Matlock was a fashionable watering-place; and the drawing-room of the "Old
Bath," with cut-glass chandeliers, old engravings, and cushioned window-seats, looks much the
same as when it witnessed many a gay assembly. In this room the wayward and sensitive youth,
secretly writhing with mortification at being prevented by lameness from leading Mary Chaworth
to the dance, watched, her more fortunate partners with moody envy. The young Lady of Annesley
little imagined that the lame boy, with his handsome face and troublesome temper, would link
her name to deathless song.

On a fair, sunny morning, towards the close of October, we left Matlock for Annesley Hall and
Newstead Abbey. The day was in harmony with the poetical associations of our excursion: a gentle
mist hung like a veil over hills and groves, giving a dreamy aspect to Nature, and rendering
the places we intended to visit creations of fancy rather than actual facts. Very unromantic
personages, however, answered our inquiries for Annesley, which reassured us of its reality.
Byron's "Dream" had rendered the scenery familiar to our memory.

Our approach led us beside those gentle slopes, and we seemed to see the maiden and the youth
standing on the mild declivity, with its crowning circlet of trees.

             "... She was his life,
  The ocean to the river of his thoughts.

              "Even now she loved another,
  And on the summit of that hill she stood
  Looking afar, if yet her lover's steed
  Kept pace with her expectancy and flew."

That lover, soon after, became the husband of Mary Chaworth. It is not for us to speculate
wherefore Destiny entangled the threads in that web of existence which originally seemed to
have woven the fates of Byron and Mary Chaworth together. We are ignorant of spiritual laws,
and know little of the origin whence come those strange attractions, mind to mind, heart to
heart, which make or mar the life-experiences of us all.

Had events been ordered otherwise, Byron might have been a better and happier man, but the
world would never have received the gift of "Childe Harold." Alas, that the soul must be ploughed
and harrowed, and the precious seed trodden in, before it can give forth its fairest-flowers
or its immortal fruit!

When we had last heard of Annesley Hall, it was ruinous and desolate, and we knew not in what
condition it might now be found. Passing through an avenue of ancient oaks, the road winds
down to an old picturesque gate-house, and, leaving the carriage, we walked onward. Looking
through the arch of entrance, we saw as in a picture, nay, as in the poet's dream, "the venerable
mansion," sitting quietly in autumn sunshine on its old terrace. To gray walls and peaks clung
a climbing plant, its leaves red with touch of frost, contrasting deliciously with green ivy,
and putting a bit of color into darker hues of stone-work. As we passed beyond the gate, we
saw that the mansion had been, restored and repaired by careful hands guided by tasteful eyes
and loving hearts. Above the hall-door was a bay-window, which instinct told us belonged to
the "antique oratory," but we walked onward to the terrace, with its stone balustrade, inclosing
a bright flower-garden. On the other side of the house stretches the lawn and park, with deer
feeding quietly in the distance. No human form appeared; all was silent and peaceful. We walked
thoughtfully on the old terrace, recalling the images of the poet and the Lady of Annesley;
but looking up at the ancient sun-dial on one of the gables, we perceived that its shadow fell
deeper and deeper with the declining day, telling us, as it had told many before, how time
waited not, and reminding us that we, also were travellers. Passing again round the mansion,
and casting a wistful look within, we saw a woman sitting at a low window, sorting fruit. We
approached, and asked if strangers were permitted to see the Hall. She replied gently, that
it was not "a show-house." We pleaded our cause successfully, however, when we told her how
the thought of Mary Chaworth had led us here from a distant land. If the owners of Annesley
knew that once an exception was made to a general rule, we trust they also believed that the
visitors were not actuated by an idle curiosity.

