THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. X, NO. 271.] SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1827. [PRICE 2d.

The New Prison, Norwich.

The old gaol in the city of Norwich, in the year 1823, being found no longer secure, nor according
to the new act of parliament, admitting of sufficient room for the classification of the prisoners,
the magistrates came to a resolution of erecting a new one outside the city, near St. Giles's
gates; the same was accordingly advertised in the Norwich papers, in which architects were
requested to send plans, elevations, and sections, (in competition,) accompanied with an estimate
of the total expense of the new building. A great number of designs were in consequence submitted,
when the plan sent by Mr. Brown, of Wells-street, Oxford-street, London, was adjudged to be
the best: his plan was therefore adopted and carried into execution, of which the annexed engraving
is a faithful representation, taken from the tower of St. Giles's Church, in the city of Norwich.
The foundation stone was laid in 1824, and the building finished this year, 1827. It is designed
to hold 120 prisoners, besides the necessary turnkeys and servants, and has cost the city £23,000;
the boundary wall is quadrangular, but is cut off at the junction of the four angles by bastions,
thereby giving to the wall a greater stability; the whole circumference is 1,220 feet, and
encloses an area of one acre, two roods, and thirty-four poles, being nearly one acre and three
quarters of ground.

The bastion at the entrance contains on the ground floor a porter's room, press room, hot and
cold baths, and a room with an oven for the purpose of purifying foul linen. The upper story
contains over the entrance gate the drop room: on each side are receiving cells, two for males
and two for females, a searching room for the surgeon, and the prison wardrobe; directly over
the drop room on the lead flat is the place where the more heinous malefactors expiate their
crimes. The bastion on the right hand contains a building, on the ground floor and in the centre
of which is the wash-house and laundry, and in front the drying ground; at each end of this
building are the airing grounds for the sick prisoners, and on the second floor are the male
and female infirmaries, separated by a strong partition wall. The left hand bastion contains
the millhouse, stable, and a room for the van which takes the prisoners to the town hall in
the assize time; over these three rooms are the mill chamber and hay-loft. The horizontal wind
vane on the roof of this building is to assist the prisoners when there is not a sufficiency
of them sentenced to the tread-wheels; by shutting the louvre boards of the arms it then produces
employment for the prisoners when there is no corn in the mill to grind. In the remote bastion
are seen the tread-wheels on which the prisoners are employed in keeping up a constant retrograde
motion, which works the machinery in the millhouse by means of an iron shaft with universal
joints concealed below the surface of the ground.

Here are four prison wings in the building, the right hand one contains in one ward common
debtors, and in the other unconvicted men felons, not capital. The second wing on the right
contains on one side unconvicted men felons, and unconvicted women felons for capital offences
on the other. In the first left hand wing there is on the first side the master debtors, and
on the other the court of conscience debtors; the second wing on the left contains on one side
men misdemeanors, and on the other convicted men felons. There are two day-rooms in each of
the four wings, and four condemned cells and four solitary ones in the back towers; there is
also fourteen airing yards between the four wings, six of which are sunk three feet below the
others, to enable the governor from the inspection gallery of his house to overlook the tread-wheels,
millhouse, and infirmary; those yards are descended by stone steps, in each there is a day
room, and they are appropriated to the following prisoners, namely, women debtors, unconvicted
women felons, not capital; convicted women felons, women fines, men fines, and boys for misdemeanors.
There is also a level passage between each two of the sunk yards, one leading to the infirmary,
one to the millhouse, and the other to the tread-wheels.

In the governor's house there is in the basement story a kitchen, scullery, and bakehouse,
store room, beer-cellar, and coal cellar; on the ground floor is the governor's office, living
room, committee room, and matron's room; on the second floor are two bedrooms and the lower
part of the chapel; and on the third floor are two bedrooms and the gallery of the chapel.
There are likewise four bridge staircases, one from each prison wing leading to passages in
the governor's house, which communicates with the chapel; the prisoners are not here able to
see each others' class, as they are separated by fourteen partitions, being as many as there
are yards in the prison, yet the governor and minister have from their seats a complete view
of every person and every part. Around the governor's house is an enclosed area, and above
an inspection gallery, from which the governor is enabled to see into every part of the prison.
On the towers of the four prison wings there are reservoirs for containing water, which is
thrown up by a pump worked by the prisoners at the tread-wheel, whenever water is required,
and by means of lead pipes, it is then conveyed to every part of the prison. The whole gaol
is fire-proof, the floors being of stone, and the doors and windows of iron.

There is certainly a peculiar arrangement in the plan of this gaol not to be met with in any
other in the kingdom; there are four yards between each of the wings excepting those two in
the approach to the governor's house; the middle yards which are divided by a passage, have,
as before stated, each of them a day-room. The prisoners allotted to these yards have their
sleeping cells in the main wing, to which they are conducted along a passage, at the end of
those upper yards which join the prison wing; the prisoners are therefore in their passage
to and from the sleeping cells, concealed from the others; should there at any time be a greater
number of prisoners belonging to the ward on the ground floor than there are sleeping cells
they are then taken to the spare cells in the wards above through a door at the end of the
upper yard, and yet concealed from those classes in the sunk yards. All our prison buildings
hitherto erected are hid from the sight by the high boundary wall that encloses them, producing
nothing interesting to the citizen or the traveller but a monotonous façade. Mr. Brown has
obviated this in the gaol before us, by having raised towers on the ends of the four wings,
which, with the top of the governor's house, mill, and infirmary, being seen rising above the
boundary wall and entrance front, produces to the eye of the spectator on approaching the prison
a tout ensemble truly imposing and grand.

ARCHITECTUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

LIVING AUTHORS.

No. 1.

       *       *       *       *       *

BERNARD BARTON.

The productions of Mr. Barton are doubtless familiar to most of our readers, and from them
they have learnt much of the amiable turn of the poet's character. Mr. Barton's compositions
afford indications of genuine feeling, of deep affection, of benevolence, sympathy, taste,
and integrity; he seems to have an ear ever on the listen for the accents of charity, patriotism,
and religion; where human anguish causes the tear to start, there he would fain be to soothe
and alleviate. Such is the character of the poet, and in the following sketch such will be
proved to be the character of the man.

Bernard Barton was born in the vicinity of London, on the 31st of January, 1784. His father
was in trade in the metropolis, whither he had come from his native place, Carlisle. Bernard
had the misfortune to lose his mother one month after his birth: her maiden name was Mary Done,
and she was a native of Rockcliffe, Cumberland; she died at the early age of thirty-two. The
following lines To a Profile evince the feelings with which our poet still cherishes her memory,
or rather the recollection of what has been told him respecting her:--

  "I knew thee not! then wherefore gaze
    Upon thy silent shadow there,
  Which so imperfectly portrays
    The form thy features used to wear?
  Yet have I often looked at thee,
  As if those lips could speak to me.

  I knew thee not! and thou couldst know,
    At best, but little more of one
  Whose pilgrimage on earth below
    Commenced, just ere thy own was done;
  For few and fleeting days were thine,
  To hope or fear for lot of mine.

  Yet few and fleeting as they were,
    Fancy and feeling picture this,
  They prompted many a fervent prayer,
    Witnessed, perchance, a parting kiss;
  And might not kiss, and prayer, from thee,
  At such a period, profit me?

  Whether they did or not, I owe
    At least this tribute to thy worth;
  Though little all I can bestow,
    Yet fond affection gives it birth;
  And prompts me, as thy shade I view,
  To bless thee, whom I never knew!"[1]

His father died before Mr. Barton was seven years old; but his second marriage, which took
place a few months before his death, provided an excellent parent for his children: to her,
and to his two sisters,[2] both several years older than himself, our author owed infinite
obligations.

His education at one of the quaker seminaries was, of course, plain and circumscribed, being
pretty much confined to useful, indeed necessary, branches of knowledge. But his father had
been a man of greater natural and more cultivated intellect than many; he had read much, and
on the abolition of slavery, in which he was one of Clarkson's earliest associates, he had,
on several occasions, proved that he could write well, though, we believe, he was never avowedly
an author. He had left no despicable collection of books, so that in his school vacations ample
means were afforded to his son of indulging his taste for reading. A pleasing tribute to the
memory of Mr. Barton's father will be found in his Napoleon and other Poems.

In the year 1806, Mr. Barton took up his residence in the pleasant town of Woodbridge, in Suffolk,
and commenced business as a merchant; but an unlooked-for domestic affliction of the severest
kind was about to visit him, and his wordly prospects were to receive an irrecoverable shock,--the
loss of his amiable wife, before they had been married a twelvemonth, and soon after the birth
of her child! This excellent woman, to whom our poet was, for so short a time, united, gave
rise to some of his best pieces, particularly to the poem beginning, The heaven was cloudless,[3]
and that entitled A Portrait, in Napoleon and other Poems. In this last piece the poet no less
beautifully than truly observes,--

  To sympathies, which soothe and bless
    Our life from day to day,
  Which throw, with silent tenderness,
    Fresh flowers across our way,
  The heart must ever fondly cling:
  But can the poet's sweetest string
    Their loveliness display?
  No--nor could Titian's self supply
  Their living presence, once gone by.

  The air, in which we breathe and live,
    Eludes our touch and sight;
  The fairest flowers their fragrance give
    To stillness, and to night;
  The softest sounds that music flings,
  In passing, from her heaven-plumed wings,
    Are trackless in their flight!
  And thus life's sweetest bliss is known
  To silent, grateful thought alone.

This mournful event, combined with discouraging prospects of a mercantile nature, induced our
author to retire from commercial pursuits on his own behalf; and in 1810 he obtained a situation
as a clerk in the Woodbridge bank, which he still holds.

Soon after Mr. Barton had entered upon his present situation, he began "to commit the sin of
rhyme," and a new provincial paper being established about this time, it became the vehicle
of his effusions: by degrees our young poet became bold enough to send a short piece now and
then to a London paper, and at last, in 1812, ventured on an anonymous volume, entitled Metrical
Effusions, 250 copies of which were printed by a bookseller of Woodbridge, and sold within
the immediate circle of our author's acquaintance. In 1818, Mr. Barton printed, by subscription,
an elegant volume, in elephant octavo, of Poems by an Amateur, of which 150 only were struck
off, and none ever sold at the shops. Encouraged by the very flattering manner in which these
impressions of his poems were received by his friends, our author at last ventured to publish,
in a small volume, Poems, by Bernard Barton, which was very favourably noticed by the literary
journals, and, being afterwards made still more known by an article in the Edinburgh Review,
has now reached a third edition. He afterwards published, in a handsome octavo volume, his
Napoleon and other Poems; and subsequently a volume of poems, entitled A Widow's Tale, which
appeared in an early month of the present year.

Such has been the literary career of Bernard Barton. If it have not left behind it the brilliant
track of other poetical comets, it has been less erratic in its course; and if it have not
been irradiated by the full blaze of a noonday sun, it has nevertheless been illumined by the
silver lustre of the queen of night; and his Parnassian vespers may be said to possess all
the mild and soothing beauties of the evening star. If his muse have not always reached the
sunward path of the soaring eagle, it is no extravagant praise to say, that she has often emulated
the sublimity of his aërial flight. But the great charm thrown around the effusions of the
Suffolk bard is that "lucid veil" of morality and religion which "covers but not conceals"--that
"silver net-work," through which his poetic "apples of gold" shine with an adventitious beauty,
which even the gorgeous ornaments so profusely lavished by a Byron or a Moore would fail to
invest them.

  There is a fame which owes its spell
    To popular applause alone;
  Which seems on lip and tongue to dwell,
    And finds--in others' breath--its own;
  For such the eager worldling sighs,
  And this the fickle world supplies.

  There is a nobler fame--which draws
    Its purer essence from the heart;
  Which only seeks that calm applause
    The virtuous and the wise impart:
  Such fame beyond the grave shall live:
  But this the world can never give.

--B. BARTON.

We have alluded to the amiable character of our poet; that his modesty is equal to his merit,
the following extract, from a letter to a friend, will afford a pleasing evidence. Speaking
of his literary career, he says, "it has been marked by an indulgence on the part of the public,
and the dispensers of literary fame, which I never anticipated. When I consider that only about
three years have elapsed since I avowed myself an author, I am really surprised at the notice
my trivial productions have received, and the numerous acquaintance to which they have, by
correspondence, introduced me. Much of this, I dare say, is owing to my quakerism; and to that,
unquestionably, I was indebted for the article in the Edinburgh Review, and the more recent
passing notice in the Quarterly. Still, as I do not believe that any outré or adventitious
source of attraction would have alone procured me the attention I have found, I would hope
it may partly have arisen from their simple, unaffected appeal to those quiet, domestic, secluded
feelings, which endear the still undercurrent of existence--in short, to my being content to
make the best I could of the homely and confined materials to which my situation has given
me access, without affecting scholarship, or aiming at romantic embellishment. There is nothing
like simple truth and nature, after all; and he who is satisfied with simply and faithfully
describing what he actually sees, feels, and, thinks, may always hope to appeal successfully
to the unsophisticated heart."[4]

We here conclude our notice of the bard of Woodbridge; and should this brief account excite
the interest of our readers to become better acquainted with this "living author," we refer
them to the whole-length portrait painted by himself, and held up to view in every page of
his poems.

    [1] Poems, by B. Barton, p.190, 3rd edit.

    [2] One of these sisters is the present Mrs. Hack, favourably
        known as the authoress of several useful and highly interesting
        works for children. See some introductory verses to her, prefixed
        to the third edition of Mr. Barton's "Poems." His brother John
        has also distinguished himself by one or two judicious pamphlets
        on the situation and circumstances of the poor.

    [3] Poems, by B. Barton, p. 133, 3rd edit.

    [4] Time's Telescope, p. 18, vol. xi.

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GREAT FIRE OF 1666.

The fire of London broke out on Sunday morning, September 2, 1666, O.S.,  and being impelled
by strong winds, raged with irresistible fury nearly four days and nights; nor was it entirely
mastered till the fifth morning after it began. The conflagration commenced at the house of
one Farryner, a baker, in Pudding-lane, near [New] Fish-street-hill, and within ten houses
of Thames-street, into which it spread within a few hours; nearly the whole of the contiguous
buildings being of timber, lath, and plaster, and the whole neighbourhood presenting little
else than closely confined passages and narrow alleys. Within the walls, it consumed almost
five-sixths of the whole city; and without the walls it cleared a space nearly as extensive
as the one-sixth part left unburnt within. Scarcely a single building that came within the
range of the flames was left standing. Public buildings, churches, and dwelling-houses, were
alike involved in one common fate.

In the summary account of this vast devastation, given in one of the inscriptions on the Monument,
and which was drawn up from the reports of the surveyors appointed after the fire, it is stated,
that "The ruins of the city were 436 acres, [viz. The immense property destroyed in this dreadful
time cannot be estimated at less than ten millions sterling. Amid all the confusion and multiplied
dangers that arose from the fire, it does not appear that more than six persons lost their
lives. Calamitous as were the immediate consequences of this dreadful fire, its remote effects
have proved an incalculable blessing to subsequent generations. To this conflagration may be
attributed the complete destruction of the plague, which, the year before only, swept off 68,590
persons!! To this tremendous fire we owe most of our grand public structures--the regularity
and beauty of our streets--and, finally, the great salubrity and extreme cleanliness of a large
part of the city of London.

In relation to this awful calamity we add the following remarks:--Heaven be praised (says Mr.
Malcolm[6]) old London was burnt. Good reader, turn to the ancient prints, in order to see
what it has been; observe those hovels convulsed; imagine the chambers within them, and wonder
why the plague, the leprosy, and the sweating-sickness raged. Turn then to the prints illustrative
of our present dwellings, and be happy. The misery of 1665 must have operated on the minds
of the legislature and the citizens, when they rebuilt and inhabited their houses. The former
enacted many salutary clauses for the preservation of health, and would have done more, had
not the public rejected that which was for their benefit; those who preferred high habitations
and narrow dark streets had them. It is only to be lamented that we are compelled to suffer
for their folly. These errors are now frequently partially removed by the exertion of the Corporation
of London; but a complete reformation is impossible. It is to the improved dwellings composed
of brick, the wainscot or papered walls, the high ceilings, the boarded floors, and large windows,
and cleanliness, that we are indebted for the general preservation of health since 1666. From
that auspicious year the very existence of the natives of London improved; their bodies moved
in a large space of pure air; and, finding every thing clean and new around them, they determined
to keep them so. Previously-unknown luxuries and improvements in furniture were suggested;
and a man of moderate fortune saw his house vie with, nay, superior to, the old palaces of
his governors. When he paced his streets, he felt the genial western breeze pass him, rich
with the perfumes of the country, instead of the stench described by Erasmus; and looking upward,
he beheld the beautiful blue of the air, variegated with fleecy clouds, in place of projecting
black beams and plaster, obscured by vapour and smoke.

The streets of London must have been dangerously dark during the winter nights before it was
burnt; lanterns with candles were very sparingly scattered, nor was light much better distributed
even in the new streets previously to the 18th century. Globular lamps were introduced by Michael
Cole, who obtained a patent in July, 1708.

We conclude the illustrations of this day with a singular opinion of the author just quoted.
Speaking of the burning of London, he says, "This subject may be allowed to be familiar to
me, and I have perhaps had more than common means of judging; and I now declare it to be my
full and decided opinion, that London was burnt by government, to annihilate the plague, which
was grafted in every crevice of the hateful old houses composing it."

    [5] The progress of the fire might have been stopped, but for the
        foolish conduct of the Lord Mayor, who refused to give orders
        for pulling down some houses, without the consent of the
        owners. Buckets and engines were of no use, from the confined
        state of the streets.

    [6] "Anecdotes of the Manners and Customs of London in the
        Eighteenth Century," vol. ii. p. 378.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SKETCH BOOK

NO. XLV.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEHIND THE SCENES; OR, A BREAKFAST IN NEWGATE.

(Concluded from page 134.)

