Another substance which is necessary to the process of coagulation is the element calcium.
If compounds of calcium are absent from the blood, coagulation does not take place. These are,
however, regular constituents of healthy blood. Whether the presence of the calcium is necessary
to the formation of the ferment or to the action of the ferment upon the fibrinogen is unknown.

*Purpose of Coagulation.*—The purpose of coagulation is to check the flow of blood from wounds.
The fact that the blood is contained in and kept flowing continuously through a system of connected
vessels causes it to escape rapidly from the body whenever openings in these vessels are made.
Clots form at such openings and close them up, stopping in this way the flow that would otherwise
go on indefinitely. Coagulation, however, does not stop the flow of blood from the large vessels.
From these the blood runs with too great force for the clot to form within the wound.

*Time Required for Coagulation.*—The rate at which coagulation takes place varies greatly under
different conditions. It is influenced strongly by temperature; heat hastens and cold retards
the process. It may be prevented entirely by lowering the temperature of the blood to near
the freezing point. The presence of a foreign substance increases the rapidity of coagulation,
and it has been observed that bleeding from small wounds is more quickly checked by covering
them with linen or cotton fibers. The fibers in this case hasten the process of coagulation.

*Quantity of Blood.*—The quantity of blood is estimated to be about one thirteenth of the entire
weight of the body. This for the average individual is an amount weighing nearly twelve pounds
and having a volume of nearly one and one half gallons. About 46 per cent by volume of this
amount is made up of corpuscles and 54 per cent of plasma. Of the plasma about 10 per cent
consists of solids and 90 per cent of water, as already stated.

*Functions of the Blood.*—The blood is the great carrying, or distributing, agent in the body.
Through its movements (considered in the next chapter) it carries food and oxygen to the cells
and waste materials from the cells. Much of the blood may, therefore, be regarded as freight
in the process of transportation. The blood also carries, or distributes, heat. Taking up heat
in the warm parts of the body, it gives it off at places having a lower temperature. This enables
all parts of the body to keep at about the same temperature.

In addition to serving as a carrier, the blood has antiseptic properties, i.e., it destroys
disease germs. While  this function is mainly due to the white corpuscles, it is due in part
to the plasma.(13) Through its coagulation, the blood also closes leaks in the small blood
vessels. The blood is thus seen to be a liquid of several functions.

                                [Fig. 12]

Fig. 12—*A balanced change* in water. The level remains constant although the water is continually
changing; suggestive of the changes in the blood.

*Changes in the Blood.*—In performing its functions in the body the blood must of necessity
undergo rapid and continuous change. The red corpuscles, whose changes have already been noted,
appear to be the most enduring constituents of the blood. The plasma is the portion that changes
most rapidly. Yet in spite of these changes the quantity and character of the blood remain
practically constant.(14) This is because there is a balancing of the forces that bring about
the changes. The addition of various materials to the blood just equals the withdrawal of the
same materials from the blood. Somewhat as a vessel of water (Fig. 12) having an inflow and
an outflow which are equal in amount may keep always at the same level, the balancing of the
intake and outgo of the blood keeps its composition about the same from time to time.

*Hygiene of the Blood.*—The blood, being a changeable liquid, is easily affected through our
habits of living. Since it may be affected for ill as well as for good, one should cultivate
those habits that are beneficial and avoid those that are harmful in their effects. Most of
the hygiene of the blood, however, is properly included in the hygiene of the organs that act
upon the blood—a fact which makes it unnecessary to treat this subject fully at this time.

From a health standpoint, the most important constituents of the blood are, perhaps, the corpuscles.
These are usually sufficient in number and vigor in the blood of those who take plenty of physical
exercise, accustom themselves to outdoor air and sunlight, sleep sufficiently, and avoid the
use of injurious drugs. On the other hand, they are deficient in quantity and inferior in quality
in the bodies of those who pursue an opposite course. Impurities not infrequently find their
way into the blood through the digestive organs. One should eat wholesome, well-cooked food,
drink freely of pure water, and limit the quantity of food to what can be properly digested.
The natural purifiers of the blood are the organs of excretion. The skin is one of these and
its power to throw off impurities depends upon its being clean and active.

*Effect of Drugs.*—Certain drugs and medicines, including alcohol and quinine,(15) have recently
been shown to destroy the white corpuscles. The effect of such substances, if introduced in
considerable amount in the body, is to render one less able to withstand attacks of disease.
Many patent medicines are widely advertised for purifying the blood. While these may possibly
do good in particular cases, the habit of doctoring one’s self with them is open to serious
objection. Instead of taking drugs and patent medicines for purifying the blood, one should
study to live more hygienically. We may safely rely upon wholesome food, pure water, outdoor
exercise and sunlight, plenty of sleep, and a clean skin for keeping the blood in good condition.
If these natural remedies fail, a physician should be consulted.

*Summary.*—The blood is the carrying or transporting agent of the body. It consists in part
of constituents, such as the red corpuscles, that enable it to carry different substances;
and in part of the materials that are being carried. The latter, which include food and oxygen
for the cells and wastes from the cells, may be classed as freight. Certain constituents in
the blood destroy disease germs, and other constituents, by coagulating, close small leaks
in the blood vessels. Although subject to rapid and continuous change, the blood is able—by
reason of the balancing of materials added to and withdrawn from it—to remain about the same
in quantity and composition.

Exercises.—1. Compare blood and water with reference to weight, density, color, odor, and complexity
of composition.

2. Show by an outline the different constituents of the blood.

3. Compare the red and white corpuscles with reference to size, shape, number, origin, and
function.

4. Name some use or purpose for each constituent of the blood.

5. What constituents of the blood may be regarded as freight and what as agents for carrying
this freight?

6. After coagulation, what portions of the blood are found in the clot? What portions are found
in the serum?

7. What purposes are served by water in the blood?

8. Show how the blood, though constantly changing, is kept about the same in quantity, density,
and composition.

9. In the lungs the blood changes from a dark to a bright red color and in the tissues it changes
back to dark red. What is the cause of these changes?

10. If the oxygen and hemoglobin formed a strong instead of a weak chemical union, could the
hemoglobin then act as an oxygen carrier? Why?

11. What habits of living favor the development of corpuscles in the blood?

12. Why will keeping the skin clean and active improve the quality of one’s blood?

PRACTICAL WORK

*To demonstrate the Physical Properties of Blood* (Optional).—Since blood is needed in considerable
quantity in the following experiments, it is best obtained from the butcher. To be sure of
securing the blood in the manner desired, take to the butcher three good-sized bottles bearing
labels as follows:

*1* Fill two thirds full. While the blood is cooling, stir rapidly with the hand or a bunch
of switches to remove the clot.

*2* Fill two thirds full and set aside without shaking or stirring.

*3* Fill two thirds full and thoroughly mix with the liquid in the bottle.

Label 3 must be pasted on a bottle, having a tight-fitting stopper, which is filled one fifth
full of a saturated solution of Epsom salts. The purpose of the salts is to prevent coagulation
until the blood is diluted with water as in the experiments which follow.

*Experiments.*—1. Let some of the defibrinated blood (bottle 1) flow (not fall) on the surface
of water in a glass vessel. Does it remain on the surface or sink to the bottom? What does
the experiment show with reference to the relative weight of blood and water?

2. Fill a large test tube or a small bottle one fourth full of the defibrinated blood and thin
it by adding an equal amount of water. Then place the hand over the mouth and shake until the
blood is thoroughly mixed with the air. Compare with a portion of the blood not mixed with
the air, noting any difference in color. What substance in the air has acted on the blood to
change its color?

3. Fill three tumblers each two thirds full of water and set them in a warm place. Pour into
one of the tumblers, and thoroughly mix with the water, two tablespoonfuls of the blood containing
the Epsom salts. After an interval of half an hour add blood to the second tumbler in the same
manner, and after another half hour add blood to the third. The water dilutes the salts so
that coagulation is no longer prevented. Jar the vessel occasionally as coagulation proceeds;
and if the clot is slow in forming, add a trace of some salt of calcium (calcium chloride).
After the blood has been added to the last tumbler make a comparative study of all. Note that
coagulation begins in all parts of the liquid at the same time and that, as the process goes
on, the clot shrinks and is drawn toward the center.

4. Place a clot from one of the tumblers in experiment 3 in a large vessel of water. Thoroughly
wash, adding fresh water, until a white, stringy solid remains. This substance is fibrin.

5. Examine the coagulated blood obtained from the butcher (bottle 2). Observe the dark central
mass (the clot) surrounded by a clear liquid (the serum). Sketch the vessel and its contents,
showing and naming the parts into which the blood separates by coagulation.

*To examine the Red Corpuscles.*—Blood for this purpose is easily obtained from the finger.
With a handkerchief, wrap one of the fingers of the left hand from the knuckle down to the
first joint. Bend this joint and give it a sharp prick with the point of a sterilized ’needle
just above the root of the nail. Pressure applied to the under side of the finger will force
plenty of blood through a very small opening. (To prevent any possibility of blood poisoning
the needle should be sterilized. This may be done by dipping it in alcohol or by holding it
for an instant in a hot flame. It is well also to wash the finger with soap and water, or with
alcohol, before the operation.) Place a small drop of the blood in the middle of a glass slide,
protect the same with a cover glass, and examine with a compound microscope. At least two specimens
should be examined, one of which should be diluted with a little saliva or a physiological
salt solution.(16) In the diluted specimen the red corpuscles appear as amber-colored, circular,
disk-shaped bodies. In the undiluted specimen they show a decided tendency to arrange themselves
in rows, resembling rows of coins. (Singly, the corpuscles do not appear red when highly magnified.)

A few white corpuscles may generally be found among the red ones in the undiluted specimen.
These become separated by the formation of the red corpuscles into rows. They are easily recognized
by their larger size and by their silvery appearance, due to the light shining through them.

*To examine White Corpuscles.*—Obtain from the butcher a small piece of the neck sweetbread
of a calf. Press it between the fingers to squeeze out a whitish, semi-liquid substance. Dilute
with physiological salt solution on a glass slide and examine with a compound microscope. Numerous
white corpuscles of different kinds and sizes will be found. Make sketches.

*To prepare Models of Red Corpuscles.*—Several models of red corpuscles should be prepared
for the use of the class. Clay and putty may be pressed into the form of red corpuscles and
allowed to harden, and small models may be cut out of blackboard crayon. Excellent models can
be molded from plaster of Paris as follows: Coat the inside of the lid of a baking powder can
with oil or vaseline and fill it even full of a thick mixture of plaster of Paris and water.
After the plaster has set, remove it from the lid and with a pocket-knife round off the edges
and hollow out the sides until the general form of the corpuscle is obtained. The models may
be colored red if it is desired to match the color as well as the form of the corpuscle.

CHAPTER V - THE CIRCULATION

A Carrier must move. To enable the blood to carry food and oxygen to the cells and waste materials
from the cells, and also to distribute heat, it is necessary to keep it moving, or circulating,
in all parts of the body. So closely related to the welfare of the body is the circulation(17)
of the blood, that its stoppage for only a brief interval of time results in death.

*Discovery of the Circulation.*—The discovery of the circulation of the blood was made about
1616 by an English physician named Harvey. In 1619 he announced it in his public lectures and
in 1628 he published a treatise in Latin on the circulation. The chief arguments advanced in
support of his views were the presence of valves in the heart and veins, the continuous movement
of the blood in the same direction through the blood vessels, and the fact that the blood comes
from a cut artery in jets, or spurts, that correspond to the contractions of the heart.

No other single discovery with reference to the human body has proved of such great importance.
A knowledge of the nature and purpose of the circulation was the necessary first step in understanding
the plan of the body and the method of maintaining life, and physiology as a science dates
from the time of Harvey’s discovery.

*Organs of Circulation.*—The organs of circulation, or blood vessels, are of four kinds, named
the heart, the arteries, the capillaries, and the veins. They serve as contrivances both for
holding the blood and for keeping it in motion through the body. The heart, which is the chief
organ for propelling the blood, acts as a force pump, while the arteries and veins serve as
tubes for conveying the blood from place to place. Moreover, the blood vessels are so connected
that the blood moves through them in a regular order, performing two well-defined circuits.

                                [Fig. 13]

Fig. 13—*Heart* in position in thoracic cavity. Dotted lines show positin
                  of diaphragm and of margins of lungs.

*The Heart.*—The human heart, roughly speaking, is about the size of the clenched fist of the
individual owner. It is situated very near the center of the thoracic cavity and is almost
completely surrounded by the lungs. It is cone-shaped and is so suspended that the small end
hangs downward, forward, and a little to the left. When from excitement, or other cause, one
becomes conscious of the movements of the heart, these appear to be in the left portion of
the chest, a fact which accounts for the erroneous impression that the heart is on the left
side. The position of the heart in the cavity of the chest is shown in Fig. 13.

*The Pericardium.*—Surrounding the heart is a protective covering, called the pericardium.
This consists of a closed membranous sac so arranged as to form a double covering around the
heart. The heart does not lie inside of the pericardial sac, as seems at first glance to be
the case, but its relation to this space is like that of the hand to the inside of an empty
sack which is laid around it (Fig. 14). The inner layer of the pericardium is closely attached
to the heart muscle, forming for it an outside covering. The outer layer hangs loosely around
the heart and is continuous with the inner layer at the top. The outer layer also connects
at certain places with the membranes surrounding the lungs and is attached below to the diaphragm.
Between the two layers of the pericardium is secreted a liquid which prevents friction from
the movements of the heart.

                                [Fig. 14]

 Fig. 14—*Diagram of section of the pericardial sac*, heart removed. A.
 Place occupied by the heart. B. Space inside of pericardial sac. a.
Inner layer of pericardium and outer lining of heart. b. Outer layer of
           pericardium. C. Covering of lung. D. Diaphragm.

*Cavities of the Heart.*—The heart is a hollow, muscular organ which has its interior divided
by partitions into four distinct cavities. The main partition extends from top to bottom and
divides the heart into two similar portions, named from their positions the right side and
the left side. On each side are two cavities, the one being directly above the other. The upper
cavities are called auricles and the lower ones ventricles. To distinguish these cavities further,
they are named from their positions the right auricle and the left auricle, and the right ventricle
and the left ventricle (Fig. 15). The auricles on each side communicate with the ventricles
below; but after birth there is no communication between the cavities on the opposite sides
of the heart. All the cavities of the heart are lined with a smooth, delicate membrane, called
the endocardium.

                                [Fig. 15]

   Fig. 15—*Diagram showing plan of the heart.* 1. Semilunar valves. 2.
 Tricuspid valve. 3. Mitral valve. 4. Right auricle. 5. Left auricle. 6.
 Right ventricle. 7. Left ventricle. 8. Chordæ tendineæ. 9. Inferior vena
    cava. 10. Superior vena cava. 11. Pulmonary artery. 12. Aorta. 13.
                             Pulmonary veins.

*Valves of the Heart.*—Located at suitable places in the heart are four gate-like contrivances,
called valves. The purpose of these is to give the blood a definite direction in its movements.
They consist of tough, inelastic sheets of connective tissue, and are so placed that pressure
on one side causes them to come together and shut up the passageway, while pressure on the
opposite side causes them to open. A valve is found at the opening of each auricle into the
ventricle, and at the opening of each ventricle into the artery with which it is connected.

The valve between the right auricle and the right ventricle is called the tricuspid valve.
It is suspended from a thin ring of connective tissue which surrounds the opening, and its
free margins extend into the ventricle (Fig. 16). It consists of three parts, as its name implies,
which are thrown together in closing the opening. Joined to the free edges of this valve are
many small, tendinous cords which connect at their lower ends with muscular pillars in the
walls of the ventricle. These are known as the chordæ tendineæ, or heart tendons. Their purpose
is to serve as valve stops, to prevent the valve from being thrown, by the force of the blood
stream, back into the auricle.

The mitral, or bicuspid, valve is suspended around the opening between the left auricle and
the left ventricle, with the free margins extending into the ventricle. It is exactly similar
in structure and arrangement to the tricuspid valve, except that it is stronger and is composed
of two parts instead of three.

                                [Fig. 16]

Fig. 16—*Right side of heart* dissected to show cavities and valves. B.
 Right semilunar valve. The tricuspid valve and the chordæ tendineæ shown
                            in the ventricle.

The right semilunar valve is situated around the opening of the right ventricle into the pulmonary
artery. It consists of three pocket-shaped strips of connective tissue which hang loosely from
the walls when there is no pressure from above; but upon receiving pressure, the pockets fill
and project into the opening, closing it completely (Fig. 16). The left semilunar valve is
around the opening of the left ventricle into the aorta, and is similar in all respects to
the right semilunar valve.

*Differences in the Parts of the Heart.*—Marked differences are found in the walls surrounding
the different cavities of the heart. The walls of the ventricles are much thicker and stronger
than those of the auricles, while the walls of the left ventricle are two or three times thicker
than those of the right. A less marked but similar difference exists between the auricles and
also between the valves on the two sides of the heart. These differences in structure are all
accounted for by the work done by the different portions of the heart. The greater the work,
the heavier the structures that perform the work.

                                [Fig. 17]

Fig. 17—*Diagram of the circulation*, showing in general the work done by
 each part of the heart. The right ventricle forces the blood through the
 lungs and into the left auricle. The left ventricle forces blood through
 all parts of the body and back to the auricle. The auricles force blood
                           into the ventricles.

*Connection with Arteries and Veins.*—Though the heart is in communication with all parts of
the circulatory system, it makes actual connection with only a few of the blood tubes. These
enter the heart at its upper portion (Fig. 15), but connect with its different cavities as follows:

1. With the right auricle, the superior and the inferior venæ cavæ and the coronary veins.
The superior vena cava receives blood from the head and the upper extremities; the inferior
vena cava, from the trunk and the lower extremities; and the coronary veins, from the heart itself.

2. With the left auricle, the four pulmonary veins. These receive blood from the lungs and
empty it into the left auricle.

3. With the right ventricle, the pulmonary artery. This receives blood from the heart and by
its branches distributes it to all parts of the lungs.

4. With the left ventricle, the aorta. The aorta receives blood from the heart and through
its branches delivers it to all parts of the body.

*How the Heart does its Work.*—The heart is a muscular pump(18) and does its work through the
contracting and relaxing of its walls. During contraction the cavities are closed and the blood
is forced out of them. During relaxation the cavities open and are refilled. The valves direct
the flow of the blood, being so arranged as to keep it moving always in the same direction
(Fig. 17).

The heart, however, is not a single or a simple pump, but consists in reality of four pumps
which correspond to its different cavities. These connect with each other and with the blood
vessels over the body in such a manner that each aids in the general movement of the blood.

                                [Fig. 18]

            Fig. 18—Diagram illustrating the "cardiac cycle."

*Work of Auricles and Ventricles Compared.*—In the work of the heart the two auricles contract
at the same time—their contraction being followed immediately by the contraction of both ventricles.
After the contraction of the ventricles comes a period of rest, or relaxation, about equal
in time to the period of contraction of both the auricles and the ventricles.(19) On account
of the work which they perform, the auricles have been called the "feed pumps" of the heart;
and the ventricles, the "force pumps."(20) It is the function of the auricles to collect the
blood from the veins, to let this run slowly into the ventricles when both the auricles and
ventricles are relaxed, and finally, by contracting, to force an excess of blood into the ventricles,
thereby distending their walls. The ventricles, having in this way been fully charged by the
auricles, now contract and force their contents into the large arteries.

*Sounds of the Heart.*—Two distinct sounds are given out by the heart as it pumps the blood.
One of them is a dull and rather heavy sound, while the other is a short, sharp sound. The
short sound follows quickly after the dull sound and the two are fairly imitated by the words
"lūbb, dŭp." While the cause of the first sound is not fully understood, most authorities believe
it to be due to the contraction of the heart muscle and the sudden tension on the valve flaps.
The second sound is due to the closing of the semilunar valves. These sounds are easily heard
by placing an ear against the chest wall. They are of great value to the physician in determining
the condition of the heart.

*Arteries and Veins.*—These form two systems of tubes which reach from the heart to all parts
of the body. The arteries receive blood from the heart and distribute it to the capillaries.
The veins receive the blood from the capillaries and return it to the heart. The arteries and
veins are similar in structure, both having the form of tubes and both having three distinct
layers, or coats, in their walls. The corresponding coats in the arteries and veins are made
up of similar materials, as follows:

1. The inner coat consists of a delicate lining of flat cells resting upon a thin layer of
connective tissue. The inner coat is continuous with the lining of the heart and provides a
smooth surface over which the blood glides with little friction.

2. The middle coat consists mainly of non-striated, or involuntary, muscular fibers. This coat
is quite thin in the veins, but in the arteries it is rather thick and strong.

3. The outer coat is made up of a variety of connective tissue and is also much thicker and
stronger in the arteries than in the veins.

                                [Fig. 19]

               Fig. 19—Artery dissected to show the coats.

Marked differences exist between the arteries and the veins, and these vessels are readily
distinguished from each other. The walls of the arteries are much thicker and heavier than
those of the veins (Fig. 19). As a result these tubes stand open when empty, whereas the veins
collapse. The arteries also are highly elastic, while the veins are but slightly elastic. On
the other hand, many of the veins contain valves, formed by folds in the inner coat (Fig. 20),
while the arteries have no valves. The blood flows more rapidly through the arteries than through
the veins, the difference being due to the fact that the system of veins has a greater capacity
than the system of arteries.

                                [Fig. 20]

               Fig. 20—Vein split open to show the valves.

*Why the Arteries are Elastic.*—The elasticity of the arteries serves a twofold purpose. It
keeps the arteries from bursting when the blood is forced into them from the ventricles, and
it is a means of supplying pressure to the blood while the ventricles are in a condition of
relaxation. The latter purpose is accomplished as follows:

Contraction of the ventricles fills the arteries overfull, causing them to swell out and make
room for the excess of blood. Then while the ventricles are resting and filling, the stretched
arteries press upon the blood to keep it flowing into the capillaries. In this way they cause
the intermittent flow from, the heart to become a steady stream in the capillaries.

The swelling of the arteries at each contraction of the ventricle is easily felt at certain
places in the body, such as the wrist. This expansion, known as the "pulse," is the chief means
employed by the physician in determining the force and rapidity of the heart’s action.

*Purpose of the Valves in the Veins.*—The valves in the veins are not used for directing the
general flow of the blood, the valves of the heart being sufficient for this purpose. Their
presence is necessary because of the pressure to which the veins are subjected in different
parts of the body. The contraction of a muscle will, for example, close the small veins in
its vicinity and diminish the capacity of the larger ones. The natural tendency of such pressure
is to empty the veins in two directions—one in the same direction as the regular movement of
the blood, but the other in the opposite direction. The valves by closing cause the contracting
muscle to push the blood in one direction only—toward the heart. The valves in the veins are,
therefore, an economical device for enabling variable pressure in different parts of the body
to assist in the circulation. Veins like the inferior vena cava and the veins of the brain,
which are not compressed by movements of the body, do not have valves.

*Purposes of the Muscular Coat.*—The muscular coat, which is thicker in the arteries than in
the veins and is more marked in small arteries than in large ones, serves two important purposes.
In the first place it, together with the elastic tissue, keeps the capacity of the blood vessels
equal to the volume of the blood. Since the blood vessels are capable of holding more blood
than may be present at a given time in the body, there is a liability of empty spaces occurring
in these tubes. Such spaces would seriously interfere with the circulation, since the heart
pressure could not then reach all parts of the blood stream. This is prevented by the contracted
state, or "tone," of the blood vessels, due to the muscular coat.

In the second place, the muscular coat serves the purpose of regulating the amount of blood
which any given organ or part of the body receives. This it does by varying the caliber of
the arteries going to the organ in question. To increase the blood supply, the muscular coat
relaxes. The arteries are then dilated by the blood pressure from within so as to let through
a larger quantity of blood. To diminish the supply, the muscle contracts, making the caliber
of the arteries less, so that less blood can flow to this part of the body. Since the need
of organs for blood varies with their activity, the muscular coat serves in this way a very
necessary purpose.

                                [Fig. 21]

Fig. 21—Diagram of network of capillaries between a very small artery and
 a very small vein. Shading indicates the change of color of the blood as
    it passes through the capillaries. S. Places between capillaries
                          occupied by the cells.

*Capillaries.*—The capillaries consist of a network of minute blood vessels which connect the
terminations of the smallest arteries with the beginnings of the smallest veins (Fig. 21).
They have an average diameter of less than one two-thousandth of an inch (12 µ) and an average
length of less than one twenty-fifth of an inch (1 millimeter). Their walls consist of a single
coat which is continuous with the lining of the arteries and veins. This coat is formed of
a single layer of thin, flat cells placed edge to edge (Fig. 22). With a few exceptions, the
capillaries are found in great abundance in all parts of the body.

                                [Fig. 22]

Fig. 22—*Surface of capillary* highly magnified, showing its coat of thin
                        cells placed edge to edge.

*Functions of the Capillaries.*—On account of the thinness of their walls, the capillaries
are able to serve a twofold purpose in the body:

1. They admit materials into the blood vessels.

2. They allow materials to pass from the blood vessels to the surrounding tissues.

When it is remembered that the blood, as blood, does not escape from the blood vessels under
normal conditions, the importance of the work of the capillaries is apparent. To serve its
purpose as a carrier, there must be places where the blood can load up with the materials which
it is to carry, and places also where these can be unloaded. Such places are supplied by the
capillaries.

The capillaries also serve the purpose of spreading the blood out and of bringing it very near
the individual cells in all parts of the body (Fig. 21).

*Functions of Arteries and Veins.*—While the capillaries provide the means whereby materials
may both enter and leave the blood, the arteries and veins serve the general purpose of passing
the blood from one set of capillaries to another. Since pressure is necessary for moving the
blood, these tubes must connect with the source of the pressure, which is the heart. In the
arteries and veins the blood neither receives nor gives up material, but having received or
given up material at one set of capillaries, it is then pushed through these tubes to where
it can serve a similar purpose in another set of capillaries (Fig. 23).

*Divisions of the Circulation.*—Man, in common with all warm-blooded animals, has a double
circulation, a fact which explains the double structure of his heart. The two divisions are
known as the pulmonary and the systemic circulations. By the former the blood passes from the
right ventricle through the lungs, and is then returned to the left auricle; by the latter
it passes from the left ventricle through all parts of the body, returning to the right auricle.

The general plan of the circulation is indicated in Fig. 23. All the blood flows continuously
through both circulations and passes the various parts in the following order: right auricle,
tricuspid valve, right ventricle, right semilunar valve, pulmonary artery and its branches,
capillaries of the lungs, pulmonary veins, left auricle, mitral valve, left ventricle, left
semilunar valve, aorta and its branches, systemic capillaries, the smaller veins, superior
and inferior venæ cavæ, and then again into the right auricle.

In the pulmonary capillaries the blood gives up carbon dioxide and receives oxygen, changing
from a dark red to a bright red color. In the systemic capillaries it gives up oxygen, receives
carbon dioxide and other impurities, and changes back to a dark red color.

In addition to the two main divisions of the circulation, special circuits are found in various
places. Such a circuit in the liver is called the portal circulation, and another in the kidneys
is termed the renal circulation. To some extent the blood supply to the walls of the heart
is also outside of the general movement; it is called the coronary circulation.

                                [Fig. 23]

