The work details the Antiquities, and elucidates the Ancient Names of Fields and Places, in
every part of the County; traces the Ancient Roads, discusses the Folk-lore, and notices the
Border Antiquities. This edition contains 500 pages, demy 8vo., with 6 illustrative Engravings,
upwards of 40 Woodcuts, and a copious Index. The former edition contained 150 pages. Those
who have, and likewise those who may be pleased to purchase the Work, can obtain at the publishers,
free of charge, a Supplement containing some additions and corrections, and also high Commendations
of the Work, which have been extracted from various Reviews and Periodicals.

Published by J. H. PARKER, 377. Strand, London; and J. GRAINGER, 18. Foregate, Worcester. {516}

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW WORKS

PUBLISHED BY

ADDEY & CO., 21. OLD BOND STREET.

       *       *       *       *       *

In One Volume, post 8vo., price 10s. 6d. cloth,

AUSTRALIA VISITED AND REVISITED:

A Narrative of recent Travels and old Experiences in the Golden, Pastoral, and Agricultural
Districts of Victoria and New South Wales.

By SAMUEL MOSSMAN, Author of "The Gold Regions of Australia," &c. and THOMAS BANISTER, Author
of "England and her Dependencies," &c.

With Maps by A. K. JOHNSTON, Geographer to Her Majesty.

    "The narrative is of a truthful, matter-of-fact character. The writers
    tell us what they saw, with little if any colouring or exaggeration.
    Wherever there is any interest in the things themselves, it is
    preserved in the book, whether it relates to the appearance of the
    gold-diggings and the diggers or their mode of life--to the places
    frequently depopulated of men by the gold fever pervading the
    colonies, to the night bivouac of quiet people to avoid the close
    atmosphere and riotous companions at the roadside inns from the crowds
    rushing to or returning from the diggings, or to many other more
    permanent scenes of still or animated life. With the actual are mingled
    remarks on Australia, and advice to emigrants, the latter of which is
    of a judicious kind."--Spectator.

    "The authors of this compact volume have well worked out the purpose
    they had in view, as put forth in the preface, making the book a real
    book, indulging in no flights of imagination lest injury should be
    inflicted thereby upon the uninformed and ingenuous.... This
    straightforward and eminently practical book."--Lloyd's Weekly News.

       *       *       *       *       *

In fcap. 4to., printed and bound in the style of the period, price 21s., or in morocco, 36s.

THE DIARY AND HOURES OF THE LADYE ADOLIE,

A FAYTHFULLE CHILDE, 1552.

Edited by the LADY CHARLOTTE PEPYS.

    "This work resembles several productions of the last few years. The
    Diary professes to be written by a noble young lady of the sixteenth
    century. 'Lady Adolie' has an advantage over most of its precursors in
    the greater depth and variety of the incidents. The Journal begins just
    before the accession of Bloody Mary, and ends with the martyrdom of the
    youthful writer at Smithfield.... The book is charmingly written; the
    kindly, simple, loving spirit of a girl in her teens, thrown much upon
    her own resources, is truthfully depicted, as well as the firm piety of
    that age."--Spectator.

    "The familiar conversation of the day, as sought to be reproduced in
    this Diary, wears an appearance of singular truthfulness, and whether
    the topic be the deathbed of good King Edward, the merits of Somerset,
    Ladye Jane Grey, her Grace the Ladye Elysabeth, the Queen herself, or
    the demeanour of her Spanish husband, the proceedings of Cardinal Pole,
    the doings at the Tower prison, the volume reflects as in a faithful
    mirror the opinions current in the national mind."--Globe.

