8. In this the devil turned his batteries against me, and I suffered so much because I thought
it showed but little humility if I persevered in prayer when I was so wicked, that--as I have
already said [3]--I gave it up for a year and a half--at least, for a year, but I do not remember
distinctly the other six months.  This could not have been, neither was it, anything else but
to throw myself down into hell; there was no need of any devils to drag me thither.  O my God,
was there ever blindness so great as this?  How well Satan prepares his measures for his purpose,
when he pursues us in this way!  The traitor knows that he has already lost that soul which
perseveres in prayer, and that every fall which he can bring about helps it, by the goodness
of God, to make greater progress in His service. Satan has some interest in this.

9. O my Jesus, what a sight that must be--a soul so highly exalted falling into sin, and raised
up again by Thee; who, in Thy mercy, stretchest forth Thine hand to save!  How such a soul
confesses Thy greatness and compassion and its own wretchedness! It really looks on itself
as nothingness, and confesses Thy power.  It dares not lift up its eyes; it raises them, indeed,
but it is to acknowledge how much it oweth unto Thee.  It becomes devout to the Queen of Heaven,
that she may propitiate Thee; it invokes the Saints, who fell after Thou hadst called them,
for succour.  Thou seemest now to be too bountiful in Thy gifts, because it feels itself to
be unworthy of the earth it treads on. It has recourse to the Sacraments, to a quickened faith,
which abides in it at the contemplation of the power which Thou hast lodged in them.  It praises
Thee because Thou hast left us such medicines and ointment for our wounds, which not only heal
them on the surface, but remove all traces whatever of them.

10. The soul is amazed at it.  Who is there, O Lord of my soul, that is not amazed at compassion
so great and mercy so surpassing, after treason so foul and so hateful?  I know not how it
is that my heart does not break when I write this, for I am wicked.  With these scanty tears
which I am now weeping, but yet Thy gift,--water out of a well, so far as it is mine, so impure,--I
seem to make Thee some recompense for treachery so great as mine, in that I was always doing
evil, labouring to make void the graces Thou hast given me.  Do Thou, O Lord, make my tears
available; purify the water which is so muddy; at least, let me not be to others a temptation
to rash judgments, as I have been to myself, when I used to think such thoughts as these. Why,
O Lord, dost Thou pass by most holy persons, who have always served Thee, and who have been
tried; who have been brought up in religion, and are really religious--not such as I am, having
only the name--so as to make it plain that they are not recipients of those graces which Thou
hast bestowed upon me?

11. I see clearly now, O Thou my Good, Thou hast kept the reward to give it them all at once:
my weakness has need of these succours.  They, being strong, serve Thee without them, and Thou
dealest with them as with a strong race, free from all self-interest.  But yet Thou knowest,
O my Lord, that I have often cried unto Thee, making excuses for those who murmured against
me; for I thought they had reason on their side.  This I did then when Thou of Thy goodness
hadst kept me back from offending Thee so much, and when I was departing from everything which
I thought displeasing unto Thee.  It was when I did this that Thou, O Lord, didst begin to
lay open Thy treasures for Thy servant.  It seemed as if Thou wert looking for nothing else
but that I should be willing and ready to receive them; accordingly, Thou didst begin at once,
not only to give them, but also to make others know that Thou wert giving them.

12. When this was known, there began to prevail a good opinion of her, of whom all had not
yet clearly understood how wicked she was, though much of that wickedness was plain enough.
Calumny and persecution began at once, and, as I think, with good reason; so I looked on none
of them as an enemy, but made my supplications to Thee, imploring Thee to consider the grounds
they had. They said that I wished to be a saint, and that I invented novelties; but I had not
then attained in many things even to the observance of my rule; nor had I come near those excellent
and holy nuns who were in the house,--and I do not believe I ever shall, if God of His goodness
will not do that for me Himself; on the contrary, I was there only to do away with what was
good, and introduce customs which were not good; at least, I did what I could to bring them
in, and I was very powerful for evil. Thus it was that they were blameless, when they blamed
me.  I do not mean the nuns only, but the others as well: they told me truths; for it was Thy will.

13. I was once saying the Office,--I had had this temptation for some time,--and when I came
to these words, "Justus es, Domine, et rectum judicium tuum," [4] I began to think what a deep
truth it was.  Satan never was strong enough to tempt me in any way to doubt of Thy goodness,
or of any article of the faith: on the contrary, it seems to me that the more these truths
were above nature, the more firmly I held them, and my devotion grew; when I thought of Thy
omnipotence, I accepted all Thy wonderful works, and I say it again, I never had a doubt. 
Then, as I was thinking how it could be just in Thee to allow so many, who, as I said, are
Thy most faithful servants, to remain without those consolations and graces which Thou hast
given to me, who am what I am, Thou, O my Lord, didst answer me: Serve thou Me, and meddle
not with this.

14. This was the first word which I ever heard Thee speak to me, and it made me greatly afraid.
But as I shall speak hereafter [5] of this way of hearing, and of other matters, I say nothing
here; for to do so would be to digress from my subject, and I have already made digressions
enough.  I scarcely know what I have said, nor can it be otherwise; but you, my father, must
bear with these interruptions; for when I consider what God must have borne with from me, and
when I see the state I am in, it is not strange that I should wander in what I am saying, and
what I have still to say.

15. May it please our Lord that my wanderings may be of this kind, and may His Majesty never
suffer me to have strength to resist Him even in the least; yea, rather than that, may He destroy
me this moment.  It is evidence enough of His great compassions, that He has forgiven so much
ingratitude, not once, but often.  He forgave St. Peter once; but I have been forgiven many
times.  Satan had good reasons for tempting me: I ought never to have pretended to a strict
friendship with One, my hatred of whom I made so public.  Was there ever blindness so great
as mine?  Where could I think I should find help but in Thee?  What folly to run away from
the light, to be for ever stumbling!  What a proud humility was that which Satan devised for
me, when I ceased to lean upon the pillar, and threw the staff away which supported me, in
order that my fall might not be great! [6]

16. I make the sign of the cross this moment.  I do not think I ever escaped so great a danger
as this device of Satan, which he would have imposed upon me in the disguise of humility. [7]
He filled me with such thoughts as these: How could I make my prayer, who was so wicked, and
yet had received so many mercies? It was enough for me to recite the Office, as all others
did; but as I did not that much well, how could I desire to do more? I was not reverential
enough, and made too little of the mercies of God.  There was no harm in these thoughts and
feelings in themselves; but to act upon them, that was an exceedingly great wickedness.  Blessed
be Thou, O Lord; for Thou camest to my help. This seems to me to be in principle the temptation
of Judas, only that Satan did not dare to tempt me so openly.  But he might have led me by
little and little, as he led Judas, to the same pit of destruction.

17. Let all those who give themselves to prayer, for the love of God, look well to this.  They
should know that when I was neglecting it, my life was much worse than it had ever been; let
them reflect on the excellent help and the pleasant humility which Satan provided for me: it
was a grave interior disquietude. But how could my spirit be quiet?  It was going away in its
misery from its true rest.  I remembered the graces and mercies I had received, and felt that
the joys of this world were loathsome.  I am astonished that I was able to bear it.  It must
have been the hope I had; for, as well as I can remember now, it is more than twenty-one years
ago.  I do not think I ever gave up my purpose of resuming my prayer; but I was waiting to
be very free from sin first.

18. Oh, how deluded I was in this expectation!  The devil would have held it out before me
till the day of judgment, that he might then take me with him to hell.  Then, when I applied
myself to prayer and to spiritual reading,--whereby I might perceive these truths, and the
evil nature of the way I was walking in, and was often importunate with our Lord in tears,--I
was so wicked, that it availed me nothing; when I gave that up, and wasted my time in amusing
myself, in great danger of falling into sin, and with scanty helps,--and I may venture to say
no help at all, unless it was a help to my ruin,--what could I expect but that of which I have
spoken?

19. I believe that a certain Dominican friar, a most learned man, has greatly merited in the
eyes of God; for it was he who roused me from this slumber.  He made me--I think I said so
before [8]--go to Communion once a fortnight, and be less given to evil; I began to be converted,
though I did not cease to offend our Lord all at once: however, as I had not lost my way, I
walked on in it, though slowly, falling and rising again; and he who does not cease to walk
and press onwards, arrives at last, even if late.  To lose one's way is--so it seems to me--nothing
else but the giving up of prayer.  God, of His mercy, keeps us from this!

20. It is clear from this,--and, for the love of God, consider it well,--that a soul, though
it may receive great graces from God in prayer, must never rely on itself, because it may fall,
nor expose itself in any way whatever to any risks of sin.  This should be well considered
because much depends on it; for the delusion here, wherein Satan is able to entangle us afterwards,
though the grace be really from God, lies in the traitor's making use of that very grace, so
far as he can, for his own purpose, and particularly against persons not grown strong in virtues,
who are neither mortified nor detached; for these are not at present strong enough--as I shall
explain hereafter [9]--to expose themselves to dangerous occasions, notwithstanding the noble
desires and resolutions they may have.

21. This doctrine is excellent, and not mine, but the teaching of God, and accordingly I wish
ignorant people like myself knew it; for even if a soul were in this state, it must not rely
so much upon itself as to go forth to the battle, because it will have enough to do in defending
itself.  Defensive armour is the present necessity; the soul is not yet strong enough to assail
Satan, and to trample him under foot, as those are who are in the state of which I shall speak
further on. [10]

22. This is the delusion by which Satan prevails: when a soul sees itself so near unto God,
when it sees the difference there is between the things of heaven and those of earth, and when
it sees the love which our Lord bears it, there grows out of that love a certain trust and
confidence that there is to be no falling away from that the fruition of which it then possesses.
It seems to see the reward distinctly, as if it were impossible for it to abandon that which,
even in this life, is so delicious and sweet, for anything so mean and impure as worldly joy.
Through this confidence, Satan robs it of that distrust which it ought to have in itself; and
so, as I have just said, [11] the soul exposes itself to dangers, and begins, in the fulness
of its zeal, to give away without discretion the fruit of its garden, thinking that now it
has no reason to be afraid for itself. Yet this does not come out of pride; for the soul clearly
understands that of itself it can do no good thing; but rather out of an excessive confidence
in God, without discretion: because the soul does not see itself to be unfledged.  It can go
forth out of its nest, and God Himself may take it out, but still it cannot fly, because the
virtues are not strong, and itself has no experience wherewith to discern the dangers; nor
is it aware of the evil which trusting to itself may do it.

23. This it was that ruined me.  Now, to understand this, and everything else in the spiritual
life, we have great need of a director, and of conference with spiritual persons.  I fully
believe, with respect to that soul which God raises to this state, that He will not cease to
be gracious to it, nor suffer it to be lost, if it does not utterly forsake His Majesty.  But
when that soul--as I said--falls, let it look to it again and again, for the love of our Lord,
that Satan deceive it not by tempting it to give up prayer, as he tempted me, through that
false humility of which I have spoken before, [12] and would gladly speak of again and again.
Let it rely on the goodness of God, which is greater than all the evil we can do.  When we,
acknowledging our own vileness, desire to return into His grace, He remembers our ingratitude
no more,--no, not even the graces He has given us, for the purpose of chastising us, because
of our misuse of them; yea, rather, they help to procure our pardon the sooner, as of persons
who have been members of His household, and who, as they say, have eaten of His bread.

24. Let them remember His words, and behold what He hath done unto me, who grew weary of sinning
before He grew weary of forgiving.  He is never weary of giving, nor can His compassion be
exhausted.  Let us not grow weary ourselves of receiving. May He be blessed for ever, Amen;
and may all created things praise Him!

1. See ch. xx. section 2.

2. See ch. xvii. section 3.

3. Ch. vii. section 17, and ch. viii. section 5.

4. Psalm cxviii. 137: "Thou art just, O Lord, and Thy judgment is right."

5. See ch. xxv.

6. See ch. viii. section 1.

7. Ch. vii. section 17.

8. Ch. vii. section 27.

9. Ch. xxxi. section 21.

10. Ch. xx. section 33, and ch. xxv. section 24.

11. Ch. xix. section 4.

12. See section 16.

1. I wish I could explain, with the help of God, wherein union differs from rapture, or from
transport, or from flight of the spirit, as they speak, or from a trance, which are all one.
[1] I mean, that all these are only different names for that one and the same thing, which
is also called ecstasy. [2]  It is more excellent than union, the fruits of it are much greater,
and its other operations more manifold; for union is uniform in the beginning, the middle,
and the end, and is so also interiorly. But as raptures have ends of a much higher kind, they
produce effects both within and without. [3]  As our Lord has explained the other matters,
so also may He explain this; for certainly, if He had not shown me in what way and by what
means this explanation was in some measure possible, I should never have been able to do it.

2. Consider we now that this last water, of which I am speaking, is so abundant that, were
it not that the ground refuses to receive it, we might suppose that the cloud of His great
Majesty is here raining down upon us on earth.  And when we are giving Him thanks for this
great mercy, drawing near to Him in earnest, with all our might, then it is our Lord draws
up the soul, as the clouds, so to speak, gather the mists from the face of the earth, and carries
it away out of itself,--I have heard it said that the clouds, or the sun, draw the mists together,
[4]--and as a cloud, rising up to heaven, takes the soul with Him, and begins to show it the
treasures of the kingdom which He has prepared for it. I know not whether the comparison be
accurate or not; but the fact is, that is the way in which it is brought about. During rapture,
the soul does not seem to animate the body, the natural heat of which is perceptibly lessened;
the coldness increases, though accompanied with exceeding joy and sweetness. [5]

3. A rapture is absolutely irresistible; whilst union, inasmuch as we are then on our own ground,
may be hindered, though that resistance be painful and violent; it is, however, almost always
impossible.  But rapture, for the most part, is irresistible. It comes, in general, as a shock,
quick and sharp, before you can collect your thoughts, or help yourself in any way, and you
see and feel it as a cloud, or a strong eagle rising upwards, and carrying you away on its wings.

4. I repeat it: you feel and see yourself carried away, you know not whither.  For though we
feel how delicious it is, yet the weakness of our nature makes us afraid at first, and we require
a much more resolute and courageous spirit than in the previous states, in order to risk everything,
come what may, and to abandon ourselves into the hands of God, and go willingly whither we
are carried, seeing that we must be carried away, however painful it may be; and so trying
is it, that I would very often resist, and exert all my strength, particularly at those times
when the rapture was coming on me in public.  I did so, too, very often when I was alone, because
I was afraid of delusions. Occasionally I was able, by great efforts, to make a slight resistance;
but afterwards I was worn out, like a person who had been contending with a strong giant; at
other times it was impossible to resist at all: my soul was carried away, and almost always
my head with it,--I had no power over it,--and now and then the whole body as well, so that
it was lifted up from the ground.

5. This has not happened to me often: once, however, it took place when we were all together
in choir, and I, on my knees, on the point of communicating.  It was a very sore distress to
me; for I thought it a most extraordinary thing, and was afraid it would occasion much talk;
so I commanded the nuns--for it happened after I was made Prioress--never to speak of it. 
But at other times, the moment I felt that our Lord was about to repeat the act, and once,
in particular, during a sermon,--it was the feast of our house, some great ladies being present,--I
threw myself on the ground; then the nuns came around me to hold me; but still the rapture
was observed.

6. I made many supplications to our Lord, that He would be pleased to give me no more of those
graces which were outwardly visible; for I was weary of living under such great restraint,
and because His Majesty could not bestow such graces on me without their becoming known.  It
seems that, of His goodness, He has been pleased to hear my prayer; for I have never been enraptured
since.  It is true that it was not long ago. [6]

7. It seemed to me, when I tried to make some resistance, as if a great force beneath my feet
lifted me up.  I know of nothing with which to compare it; but it was much more violent than
the other spiritual visitations, and I was therefore as one ground to pieces; for it is a great
struggle, and, in short, of little use, whenever our Lord so wills it.  There is no power against
His power.

8. At other times He is pleased to be satisfied when He makes us see that He is ready to give
us this grace, and that it is not He that withholds it.  Then, when we resist it out of humility,
He produces those very effects which would have resulted if we had fully consented to it.

9. The effects of rapture are great: one is that the mighty power of our Lord is manifested;
and as we are not strong enough, when His Majesty wills it, to control either soul or body,
so neither have we any power over it; but, whether we like it or not, we see that there is
one mightier than we are, that these graces are His gifts, and that of ourselves we can do
nothing whatever; and humility is deeply imprinted in us.  And further, I confess that it threw
me into great fear, very great indeed at first; for when I saw my body thus lifted up from
the earth, how could I help it? Though the spirit draws it upwards after itself, and that with
great sweetness, if unresisted, the senses are not lost; at least, I was so much myself as
to be able to see that I was being lifted up.  The majesty of Him who can effect this so manifests
itself, that the hairs of my head stand upright, [7] and a great fear comes upon me of offending
God, who is so mighty.  This fear is bound up in exceedingly great love, which is acquired
anew, and directed to Him, who, we see, bears so great a love to a worm so vile, and who seems
not to be satisfied with attracting the soul to Himself in so real a way, but who will have
the body also, though it be mortal and of earth so foul, such as it is through our sins, which
are so great.

10. Rapture leaves behind a certain strange detachment also, which I shall never be able to
describe; I think I can say that it is in some respects different from--yea, higher than--the
other graces, which are simply spiritual; for though these effect a complete detachment in
spirit from all things, it seems that in this of rapture our Lord would have the body itself
to be detached also: and thus a certain singular estrangement from the things of earth is wrought,
which makes life much more distressing.  Afterwards it causes a pain, which we can never inflict
of ourselves, nor remove when once it has come.

11. I should like very much to explain this great pain, and I believe I shall not be able;
however, I will say something if I can.  And it is to be observed that this is my present state,
and one to which I have been brought very lately, after all the visions and revelations of
which I shall speak, and after that time, wherein I gave myself to prayer, in which our Lord
gave me so much sweetness and delight. [8]  Even now I have that sweetness occasionally; but
it is the pain of which I speak that is the most frequent and the most common.  It varies in
its intensity.  I will now speak of it when it is sharpest; for I shall speak later on [9]
of the great shocks I used to feel when our Lord would throw me into those trances, and which
are, in my opinion, as different from this pain as the most corporeal thing is from the most
spiritual; and I believe that I am not exaggerating much. For though the soul feels that pain,
it is in company with the body; [10] both soul and body apparently share it, and it is not
attended with that extremity of abandonment which belongs to this.

12. As I said before, [11] we have no part in causing this pain; but very often there springs
up a desire unexpectedly,--I know not how it comes,--and because of this desire, which pierces
the soul in a moment, the soul begins to be wearied, so much so that it rises upwards above
itself, and above all created things. God then so strips it of everything, that, do what it
may, there is nothing on earth that can be its companion.  Neither, indeed, would it wish to
have any; it would rather die in that loneliness.  If people spoke to it, and if itself made
every effort possible to speak, it would be of little use: the spirit, notwithstanding all
it may do, cannot be withdrawn from that loneliness; and though God seems, as it were, far
away from the soul at that moment, yet He reveals His grandeurs at times in the strangest way
conceivable.  That way is indescribable; I do not think any one can believe or comprehend it
who has not previously had experience of it.  It is a communication made, not to console, but
to show the reason why the soul must be weary; because it is far away from the Good which in
itself comprehends all good.

13. In this communication the desire grows, so also does the bitterness of that loneliness
wherein the soul beholds itself, suffering a pain so sharp and piercing that, in that very
loneliness in which it dwells, it may literally say of itself,--and perhaps the royal prophet
said so, being in that very loneliness himself, except that our Lord may have granted to him,
being a saint, to feel it more deeply,--"Vigilavi, et factus sum sicut passer solitarius in
tecto." [12]  These words presented themselves to me in such a way that I thought I saw them
fulfilled in myself.  It was a comfort to know that others had felt this extreme loneliness;
how much greater my comfort, when these persons were such as David was!  The soul is then--so
I think--not in itself, but on the house-top, or on the roof, above itself, and above all created
things; for it seems to me to have its dwelling higher than even in the highest part of itself.

14. On other occasions, the soul seems to be, as it were, in the utmost extremity of need,
asking itself, and saying, "Where is Thy God?" [13]  And it is to be remembered, that I did
not know how to express in Spanish the meaning of those words. Afterwards, when I understood
what it was, I used to console myself with the thought, that our Lord, without any effort of
mine, had made me remember them.  At other times, I used to recollect a saying of St. Paul's,
to the effect that he was crucified to the world. [14] I do not mean that this is true of me:
I know it is not; but I think it is the state of the enraptured soul.  No consolation reaches
it from heaven, and it is not there itself; it wishes for none from earth, and it is not there
either; but it is, as it were, crucified between heaven and earth, enduring its passion: receiving
no succour from either.

15. Now, the succour it receives from heaven--which, as I have said, [15] is a most marvellous
knowledge of God, above all that we can desire--brings with it greater pain; for the desire
then so grows, that, in my opinion, its intense painfulness now and then robs the soul of all
sensation; only, it lasts but for a short time after the senses are suspended.  It seems as
if it were the point of death; only, the agony carries with it so great a joy, that I know
of nothing wherewith to compare it.  It is a sharp martyrdom, full of sweetness; for if any
earthly thing be then offered to the soul, even though it may be that which it habitually found
most sweet, the soul will have none of it; yea, it seems to throw it away at once.  The soul
sees distinctly that it seeks nothing but God; yet its love dwells not on any attribute of
Him in particular; it seeks Him as He is, and knows not what it seeks.  I say that it knows
not, because the imagination forms no representation whatever; and, indeed, as I think, during
much of that time the faculties are at rest. Pain suspends them then, as joy suspends them
in union and in a trance.

16. O Jesus! oh, that some one would clearly explain this to you, my father, were it only that
you may tell me what it means, because this is the habitual state of my soul!  Generally, when
I am not particularly occupied, I fall into these agonies of death, and I tremble when I feel
them coming on, because they are not unto death.  But when I am in them, I then wish to spend
therein all the rest of my life, though the pain be so very great, that I can scarcely endure
it.  Sometimes my pulse ceases, as it were, to beat at all,--so the sisters say, who sometimes
approach me, and who now understand the matter better,--my bones are racked, and my hands become
so rigid, that I cannot always join them. Even on the following day I have a pain in my wrists,
and over my whole body, as if my bones were out of joint. [16]  Well, I think sometimes, if
it continues as at present, that it will end, in the good pleasure of our Lord, by putting
an end to my life; for the pain seems to me sharp enough to cause death; only, I do not deserve it.

17. All my anxiety at these times is that I should die: I do not think of purgatory, nor of
the great sins I have committed, and by which I have deserved hell.  I forget everything in
my eagerness to see God; and this abandonment and loneliness seem preferable to any company
in the world.  If anything can be a consolation in this state, it is to speak to one who has
passed through this trial, seeing that, though the soul may complain of it, no one seems disposed
to believe in it.

18. The soul is tormented also because the pain has increased so much, that it seeks solitude
no longer, as it did before, nor companionship, unless it be that of those to whom it may make
its complaint.  It is now like a person, who, having a rope around his neck, and being strangled,
tries to breathe. This desire of companionship seems to me to proceed from our weakness; for,
as pain brings with it the risk of death,--which it certainly does; for I have been occasionally
in danger of death, in my great sickness and infirmities, as I have said before, [17] and I
think I may say that this pain is as great as any,--so the desire not to be parted, which possesses
soul and body, is that which raises the cry for succour in order to breathe, and by speaking
of it, by complaining, and distracting itself, causes the soul to seek means of living very
much against the will of the spirit, or the higher part of the soul, which would not wish to
be delivered from this pain.

19. I am not sure that I am correct in what I say, nor do I know how to express myself, but
to the best of my knowledge it comes to pass in this way.  See, my father, what rest I can
have in this life, now that what I once had in prayer and loneliness--therein our Lord used
to comfort me--has become in general a torment of this kind; while, at the same time, it is
so full of sweetness, that the soul, discerning its inestimable worth, prefers it to all those
consolations which it formerly had.  It seems also to be a safer state, because it is the way
of the cross; and involves, in my opinion, a joy of exceeding worth, because the state of the
body in it is only pain.  It is the soul that suffers and exults alone in that joy and contentment
which suffering supplies.

20. I know not how this can be, but so it is; it comes from the hand of our Lord, and, as I
said before, [18] is not anything that I have acquired myself, because it is exceedingly supernatural,
and I think I would not barter it for all the graces of which I shall speak further on: I do
not say for all of them together, but for any one of them separately.  And it must not be forgotten
that, as I have just said, these impetuosities came upon me after I had received those graces
from our Lord [19] which I am speaking of now, and all those described in this book, and it
is in this state our Lord keeps me at this moment. [20]

21. In the beginning I was afraid--it happens to me to be almost always so when our Lord leads
me by a new way, until His Majesty reassures me as I proceed--and so our Lord bade me not to
fear, but to esteem this grace more than all the others He had given me; for the soul was purified
by this pain--burnished, or refined as gold in the crucible, so that it might be the better
enamelled with His gifts, and the dross burnt away in this life, which would have to be burnt
away in purgatory.

22. I understood perfectly that this pain was a great grace; but I was much more certain of
it now and my confessor tells me I did well.  And though I was afraid, because I was so wicked,
I never could believe it was anything wrong: on the other hand, the exceeding greatness of
the blessing made me afraid, when I called to mind how little I had deserved it.  Blessed be
our Lord, who is so good!  Amen.

23. I have, it seems, wandered from my subject; for I began by speaking of raptures, and that
of which I have been speaking is even more than a rapture, and the effects of it are what I
have described.  Now let us return to raptures, and speak of their ordinary characteristics.
I have to say that, when the rapture was over, my body seemed frequently to be buoyant, as
if all weight had departed from it; so much so, that now and then I scarcely knew that my feet
touched the ground.  But during the rapture itself the body is very often as if it were dead,
perfectly powerless.  It continues in the position it was in when the rapture came upon it--if
sitting, sitting; if the hands were open, or if they were shut, they will remain open or shut.
[21] For though the senses fail but rarely, it has happened to me occasionally to lose them
wholly--seldom, however, and then only for a short time.  But in general they are in disorder;
and though they have no power whatever to deal with outward things, there remains the power
of hearing and seeing; but it is as if the things heard and seen were at a great distance,
far away.

24. I do not say that the soul sees and hears when the rapture is at the highest,--I mean by
at the highest, when the faculties are lost, because profoundly united with God,--for then
it neither sees, nor hears, nor perceives, as I believe; but, as I said of the previous prayer
of union, [22] this utter transformation of the soul in God continues only for an instant;
yet while it continues no faculty of the soul is aware of it, or knows what is passing there.
Nor can it be understood while we are living on the earth--at least, God will not have us understand
it, because we must be incapable of understanding it.  I know it by experience.

25. You, my father, will ask me: How comes it, then, that a rapture occasionally lasts so many
hours? The movements of the two other faculties seem to me to be like those of the needle of
sun-dials, which is never at rest; yet when the Sun of Justice will have it so, He can hold
it still.

26. This I speak of lasts but a moment; yet, as the impulse and the upraising of the spirit
were vehement, and though the other faculties bestir themselves again, the will continues absorbed,
and causes this operation in the body, as if it were the absolute mistress; for now that the
two other faculties are restless, and attempt to disturb it, it takes care--for if it is to
have enemies, the fewer the better--that the senses also shall not trouble it: and thus it
comes to pass that the senses are suspended; for so our Lord wills it.  And for the most part
the eyes are closed, though we may not wish to close them; and if occasionally they remain
open, as I said just now, the soul neither discerns nor considers what it sees.

