Both the Christian and the Moslem chief urged on their rowers to the top of their speed. Their
galleys soon shot ahead of the rest of the line, driven through the boiling surges as by the
force of a tornado, and closing with a shock that made every timber crack, and the two vessels
quiver to their very keels. So powerful, indeed, was the impetus they received, that the pasha's
galley, which was considerably the larger and loftier of the two, was thrown so far upon its
opponent that the prow reached the fourth bench of rowers. As soon as the vessels were disengaged
from each other, and those on board had recovered from the shock, the work of death began.
Don John's chief strength consisted in some three hundred Spanish arquebusiers, culled from
the flower of his infantry. Ali, on the other hand, was provided with the like number of janissaries.
He was also followed by a smaller vessel, in which two hundred more were stationed as a corps
de réserve. He had, moreover, a hundred archers on board. The bow was still much in use with
the Turks, as with the other Moslems.

The pasha opened at once on his enemy a terrible fire of cannon and musketry. It was returned
with equal spirit, and much more effect; for the Turkish marksmen were observed to shoot over
the heads of their adversaries. Their galley was unprovided with the defences which protected
the sides of the Spanish vessels; and the troops, huddled together on their lofty prow, presented
an easy mark to their enemies' balls. But though numbers of them fell at every discharge, their
places were soon supplied by those in reserve. Their incessant fire, moreover, wasted the strength
of the Spaniards; and as both Christian and Mussulman fought with indomitable spirit, it seemed
doubtful to which side the victory would incline.

The affair was made more complicated by the entrance of other parties into the conflict. Both
Ali and Don John were supported by some of the most valiant captains in their fleets. Next
to the Spanish commander, as we have seen, were Colonna and the veteran Veniero, who, at the
age of seventy-six, performed feats of arms worthy of a paladin of romance. Thus a little squadron
of combatants gathered around the principal leaders, who sometimes found themselves assailed
by several enemies at the same time. Still the chiefs did not lose sight of one another, but
beating off their inferior foes as well as they could, each refusing to loosen his hold, clung
with mortal grasp to his antagonist.

Thus the fight raged along the whole extent of the entrance of the Gulf of Lepanto. If the
eye of the spectator could have penetrated the cloud of smoke that enveloped the combatants,
and have embraced the whole scene at a glance, he would have beheld them broken up into small
detachments, engaged in conflict with one another, wholly independently of the rest, and indeed
ignorant of all that was doing in other quarters. The volumes of vapor, rolling heavily over
the waters, effectually shut out from sight whatever was passing at any considerable distance,
unless when a fresher breeze dispelled the smoke for a moment, or the flashes of the heavy
guns threw a transient gleam over the dark canopy of battle. The contest exhibited few of those
enlarged combinations and skilful manoeuvres to be expected in a great naval encounter. It
was rather an assemblage of petty actions, resembling those on land. The galleys, grappling
together, presented a level arena, on which soldier and galley-slave fought hand to hand, and
the fate of the engagement was generally decided by boarding. As in most hand-to-hand contests,
there was an enormous waste of life. The decks were loaded with corpses, Christian and Moslem
lying promiscuously together in the embrace of death. Instances are given where every man on
board was slain or wounded. It was a ghastly spectacle, where blood flowed in rivulets down
the sides of the vessels, staining the waters of the Gulf for miles around.

It seemed as if some hurricane had swept over the sea, and covered it with the wreck of the
noble armaments which a moment before were so proudly riding on its bosom. Little had they
now to remind one of their late magnificent array, with their hulls battered and defaced, their
masts and spars gone or fearfully splintered by the shot, their canvas cut into shreds and
floating wildly on the breeze, while thousands of wounded and drowning men were clinging to
the floating fragments, and calling piteously for help. Such was the wild uproar which had
succeeded to the Sabbath-like stillness that two hours before had reigned over these beautiful
solitudes!

The left wing of the confederates, commanded by Barberigo, had been sorely pressed by the Turks,
as we have seen, at the beginning of the fight. Barberigo himself had been mortally wounded.
His line had been turned. Several of his galleys had been sunk. But the Venetians gathered
courage from despair. By incredible efforts they succeeded in beating off their enemies. They
became the assailants in their turn. Sword in hand, they carried one vessel after another.
The Capuchin, with uplifted crucifix, was seen to head the attack, and to lead the boarders
to the assault. The Christian galley-slaves, in some instances, broke their fetters and joined
their countrymen against their masters. Fortunately, the vessel of Mehemet Siroco, the Moslem
admiral, was sunk; and though extricated from the water himself, it was only to perish by the
sword of his conqueror, Juan Contarini. The Venetian could find no mercy for the Turk.

The fall of their commander gave the final blow to his followers. Without further attempt to
prolong the fight, they fled before the avenging swords of the Venetians. Those nearest the
land endeavored to escape by running their vessels ashore, where they abandoned them as prizes
to the Christians. Yet many of the fugitives, before gaining the shore, perished miserably
in the waves. Barberigo, the Venetian admiral, who was still lingering in agony, heard the
tidings of the enemy's defeat, and exclaiming, "I die contented," he breathed his last.

Meanwhile the combat had been going forward in the centre between the two commanders-in-chief,
Don John and Ali Pasha, whose galleys blazed with an incessant fire of artillery and musketry
that enveloped them like "a martyr's robe of flames." Both parties fought with equal spirit,
though not with equal fortune. Twice the Spaniards had boarded their enemy, and both times
they had been repulsed with loss. Still their superiority in the use of their fire-arms would
have given them a decided advantage over their opponents, if the loss thus inflicted had not
been speedily repaired by fresh reinforcements. More than once the contest between the two
chieftains was interrupted by the arrival of others to take part in the fray. They soon, however,
returned to one another, as if unwilling to waste their strength on a meaner enemy. Through
the whole engagement both commanders exposed themselves to danger as freely as any common soldier.
Even Philip must have admitted that in such a contest it would have been difficult for his
brother to find with honor a place of safety. Don John received a wound in the foot. It was
a slight one, however, and he would not allow it to be attended to till the action was over.

At length the men were mustered, and a third time the trumpets sounded to the assault. It was
more successful than those preceding. The Spaniards threw themselves boldly into the Turkish
galley. They were met by the janissaries with the same spirit as before. Ali Pasha led them
on. Unfortunately, at this moment he was struck by a musket-ball in the head, and stretched
senseless on the gangway. His men fought worthily of their ancient renown. But they missed
the accustomed voice of their commander. After a short, but ineffectual struggle against the
fiery impetuosity of the Spaniards, they were overpowered and threw down their arms. The decks
were loaded with the bodies of the dead and the dying. Beneath these was discovered the Turkish
commander-in-chief, sorely wounded, but perhaps not mortally. He was drawn forth by some Castilian
soldiers, who, recognizing his person, would at once have despatched him. But the wounded chief,
having rallied from the first effects of his blow, had presence of mind enough to divert them
from their purpose by pointing out the place below where he had deposited his money and jewels,
and they hastened to profit by the disclosure before the treasure should fall into the hands
of their comrades.

Ali was not so successful with another soldier, who came up soon after, brandishing his sword,
and preparing to plunge it into the body of the prostrate commander. It was in vain that the
latter endeavored to turn the ruffian from his purpose. He was a convict,--one of those galley-slaves
whom Don John had caused to be unchained from the oar, and furnished with arms. He could not
believe that any treasure would be worth so much to him as the head of the pasha. Without further
hesitation he dealt him a blow which severed it from his shoulders. Then returning to his galley,
he laid the bloody trophy before Don John. But he had miscalculated on his recompense. His
commander gazed on it with a look of pity mingled with horror. He may have thought of the generous
conduct of Ali to his Christian captives, and have felt that he deserved a better fate. He
coldly inquired "of what use such a present could be to him," and then ordered it to be thrown
into the sea. Far from being obeyed, it is said the head was stuck on a pike and raised aloft
on board the captive galley. At the same time the banner of the Crescent was pulled down, while
that of the Cross run up in its place proclaimed the downfall of the pasha.

The sight of the sacred ensign was welcomed by the Christians with a shout of "Victory!" which
rose high above the din of battle. The tidings of the death of Ali soon passed from mouth to
mouth, giving fresh heart to the confederates, but falling like a knell on the ears of the
Moslems. Their confidence was gone. Their fire slackened. Their efforts grew weaker and weaker.
They were too far from shore to seek an asylum there, like their comrades on the right. They
had no resource but to prolong the combat or to surrender. Most preferred the latter. Many
vessels were carried by boarding, others sunk by the victorious Christians. Before four hours
had elapsed, the centre, like the right wing of the Moslems, might be said to be annihilated.

Still the fight was lingering on the right of the confederates, where, it will be remembered,
Uluch Ali, the Algerine chief, had profited by Doria's error in extending his line so far as
greatly to weaken it. His adversary, attacking it on its most vulnerable quarter, had succeeded,
as we have seen, in capturing and destroying several vessels, and would have inflicted still
heavier losses on his enemy, had it not been for the seasonable succor received from the Marquis
of Santa Cruz. This brave officer, who commanded the reserve, had already been of much service
to Don John, when the Real was assailed by several Turkish galleys at once, during his combat
with Ali Pasha; the Marquis having arrived at this juncture, and beating off the assailants,
one of whom he afterwards captured, the commander-in-chief was enabled to resume his engagement
with the pasha.

No sooner did Santa Cruz learn the critical situation of Doria, than, supported by Cardona,
general of the Sicilian squadron, he pushed forward to his relief. Dashing into the midst of
the melée, they fell like a thunderbolt on the Algerine galleys. Few attempted to withstand
the shock. But in their haste to avoid it, they were encountered by Doria and his Genoese.
Thus beset on all sides, Uluch Ali was compelled to abandon his prizes and provide for his
own safety by flight. He cut adrift the Maltese Capitana, which he had lashed to his stern,
and on which three hundred corpses attested the desperate character of her defence. As tidings
reached him of the discomfiture of the centre and the death of his commander, he felt that
nothing remained but to make the best of his way from the fatal scene of action, and save as
many of his own ships as he could. And there were no ships in the Turkish fleet superior to
his, or manned by men under more perfect discipline; for they were the famous corsairs of the
Mediterranean, who had been rocked from infancy on its waters.

Throwing out his signals for retreat, the Algerine was soon to be seen, at the head of his
squadron, standing towards the north, under as much canvas as remained to him after the battle,
and urged forward through the deep by the whole strength of his oarsmen. Doria and Santa Cruz
followed quickly in his wake. But he was borne on the wings of the wind, and soon distanced
his pursuers. Don John, having disposed of his own assailants, was coming to the support of
Doria, and now joined in the pursuit of the viceroy. A rocky headland, stretching far into
the sea, lay in the path of the fugitive, and his enemies hoped to intercept him there. Some
few of his vessels stranded on the rocks. But the rest, near forty in number, standing more
boldly out to sea, safely doubled the promontory. Then quickening their flight, they gradually
faded from the horizon, their white sails, the last thing visible, showing in the distance
like a flock of Arctic sea-fowl on their way to their native homes. The confederates explained
the inferior sailing of their own galleys by the circumstance of their rowers, who had been
allowed to bear arms in the fight, being crippled by their wounds.

The battle had lasted more than four hours. The sky, which had been almost without a cloud
through the day, began now to be overcast, and showed signs of a coming storm. Before seeking
a place of shelter for himself and his prizes, Don John reconnoitred the scene of action. He
met with several vessels in too damaged a state for further service. These mostly belonging
to the enemy, after saving what was of any value on board, he ordered to be burnt. He selected
the neighboring port of Petala, as affording the most secure and accessible harbor for the
night. Before he had arrived there, the tempest began to mutter and darkness was on the water.
Yet the darkness rendered the more visible the blazing wrecks, which, sending up streams of
fire mingled with showers of sparks, looked like volcanoes on the deep.

Long and loud were the congratulations now paid to the young commander-in-chief by his brave
companions in arms, on the success of the day. The hours passed blithely with officers and
men, while they recounted one to another their manifold achievements. But feelings of gloom
mingled with their gayety, as they gathered tidings of the loss of friends who had bought this
victory with their blood.

It was, indeed, a sanguinary battle, surpassing in this particular any sea-fight of modern
times. The loss fell much the most heavily on the enemy. There is the usual discrepancy about
numbers; but it may be safe to estimate the Turkish loss at about twenty-four thousand slain,
and five thousand prisoners. But what gave most joy to the hearts of the conquerors was the
liberation of twelve thousand Christian captives, who had been chained to the oar on board
the Moslem galleys, and who now came forth with tears streaming down their haggard cheeks,
to bless their deliverers.

The loss of the allies was comparatively small,--less than eight thousand. That it was so much
less than that of their enemies may be referred in part to their superiority in the use of
firearms; in part, also, to their exclusive use of these, instead of employing bows and arrows,
weapons much less effective, but on which the Turks, like the other Moslem nations, seem to
have greatly relied. Lastly, the Turks were the vanquished party, and in their heavier loss
suffered the almost invariable lot of the vanquished.

As to their armada, it may almost be said to have been annihilated. Not more than forty galleys
escaped, out of near two hundred and fifty which had entered into the action. One hundred and
thirty were taken and divided among the conquerors. The remainder, sunk or burned, were swallowed
up by the waves. To counterbalance all this, the confederates are said to have lost not more
than fifteen galleys, though a much larger number doubtless were rendered unfit for service.
This disparity affords good evidence of the inferiority of the Turks in the construction of
their vessels, as well as in the nautical skill required to manage them. A large amount of
booty, in the form of gold, jewels, and brocade, was found on board several of the prizes.
The galley of the commander-in-chief alone is stated to have contained one hundred and seventy
thousand gold sequins,--a large sum, but not large enough, it seems, to buy off his life.

The losses of the combatants cannot be fairly presented without taking into the account the
quality as well as the number of the slain. The number of persons of consideration, both Christians
and Moslems, who embarked in the expedition, was very great. The roll of slaughter showed that
in the race of glory they gave little heed to their personal safety. The officer second in
command among the Venetians, the commander-in-chief of the Turkish armament, and the commander
of its right wing, all fell in the battle. Many a high-born cavalier closed at Lepanto a long
career of honorable service. More than one, on the other hand, dated the commencement of their
career from this day. Such was the case with Alexander Farnese, the young prince of Parma.
Though somewhat older than his uncle, John of Austria, difference of birth had placed a wide
distance in their conditions; the one filling the post of commander-in-chief, the other only
that of a private adventurer. Yet even so he succeeded in winning great renown by his achievements.
The galley in which he sailed was lying, yard-arm to yard-arm, alongside of a Turkish galley,
with which it was hotly engaged. In the midst of the action, the young Farnese sprang on board
of the enemy, and with his stout broadsword hewed down all who opposed him, opening a path
into which his comrades poured one after another; and after a short, but murderous contest,
he succeeded in carrying the vessel. As Farnese's galley lay just astern of Don John's, the
latter could witness the achievement of his nephew, which filled him with an admiration he
did not affect to conceal. The intrepidity he displayed on this occasion gave augury of his
character in later life, when he succeeded his uncle in command, and surpassed him in military
renown.

Another youth was in that sea-fight, who, then humble and unknown, was destined one day to
win laurels of a purer and more enviable kind than those which grow on the battle-field. This
was Cervantes, who, at the age of twenty-four, was serving on board the fleet as a common soldier.
He was confined to his bed by a fever; but, notwithstanding the remonstrances of his captain,
insisted, on the morning of the action, not only on bearing arms, but on being stationed at
the post of danger. And well did he perform his duty there, as was shown by two wounds on the
breast, and another in the hand, by which he lost the use of it. Fortunately, it was the left
hand. The right yet remained, to record those immortal productions which were to be familiar
as household words, not only in his own land, but in every quarter of the civilized world.

A fierce storm of thunder and lightning raged for four-and-twenty hours after the battle, during
which the fleet rode safely at anchor in the harbor of Petala. It remained there three days
longer. Don John profited by the time to visit the different galleys and ascertain their condition.
He informed himself of the conduct of the troops, and was liberal of his praises to those who
deserved them. With the sick and the wounded he showed the greatest sympathy, endeavoring to
alleviate their sufferings, and furnishing them with whatever his galley contained that could
minister to their comfort. With so generous and sympathetic a nature, it is not wonderful that
he should have established himself in the hearts of his soldiers.

But the proofs of this kindly temper were not confined to his own followers. Among the prisoners
were two sons of Ali, the Turkish commander-in-chief. One was seventeen, the other only thirteen
years of age. Thus early had their father desired to initiate them in a profession which, beyond
all others, opened the way to eminence in Turkey. They were not on board of his galley, and
when they were informed of his death, they were inconsolable. To this sorrow was now to be
added the doom of slavery.

As they were led into the presence of Don John, the youths prostrated themselves on the deck
of his vessel. But raising them up, he affectionately embraced them. He said all he could to
console them under their troubles. He caused them to be treated with the consideration due
to their rank. His secretary, Juan de Soto, surrendered his quarters to them. They were provided
with the richest apparel that could be found among the spoil. Their table was served with the
same delicacies as that of the commander-in-chief; and his gentlemen of the chamber showed
the same deference to them as to himself. His kindness did not stop with these acts of chivalrous
courtesy. He received a letter from their sister Fatima, containing a touching appeal to Don
John's humanity, and soliciting the release of her orphan brothers. He had sent a courier to
give their friends in Constantinople the assurance of their personal safety; "which," adds
the lady, "is held by all this court as an act of great courtesy,--gran gentilezza; and there
is no one here who does not admire the goodness and magnanimity of your Highness."  She enforced
her petition with a rich present, for which she gracefully apologized, as intended to express
her own feelings, though far below his deserts.

The young princes, in the division of the spoil, were assigned to the pope. But Don John succeeded
in obtaining their liberation. Unfortunately, the elder died--of a broken heart, it is said--at
Naples. The younger was sent home, with three of his attendants, for whom he had an especial
regard. Don John declined the present, which he gave to Fatima's brother. In a letter to the
Turkish princess, he remarked, that "he had done this, not because he undervalued her beautiful
gift, but because it had ever been the habit of his royal ancestors freely to grant favors
to those who stood in need of their protection, but not to receive aught by way of recompense."

THE WIND AND STREAM.

    A brook came stealing from the ground;
      You scarcely saw its silvery gleam
    Among the herbs that hung around
      The borders of that winding stream,--
      A pretty stream, a placid stream,
      A softly gliding, bashful stream.

    A breeze came wandering from the sky,
      Light as the whispers of a dream;
    He put the o'erhanging grasses by,
      And gayly stooped to kiss the stream,--
      The pretty stream, the flattered stream,
      The shy, yet unreluctant stream.

    The water, as the wind passed o'er,
      Shot upward many a glancing beam,
    Dimpled and quivered more and more,
      And tripped along a livelier stream,--
      The flattered stream, the simpering stream,
      The fond, delighted, silly stream.

    Away the airy wanderer flew
      To where the fields with blossoms teem,
    To sparkling springs and rivers blue,
      And left alone that little stream,--
      The flattered stream, the cheated stream,
      The sad, forsaken, lonely stream.

    That careless wind no more came back;
      He wanders yet the fields, I deem;
    But on its melancholy track
      Complaining went that little stream,--
      The cheated stream, the hopeless stream,
      The ever murmuring, moaning stream.

TURKEY TRACKS.

Don't open your eyes, Polder! You think I am going to tell you about some of my Minnesota experiences;
how I used to scamper over the prairies on my Indian pony, and lie in wait for wild turkeys
on the edge of an oak opening. That is pretty sport, too, to creep under an oak with low-hanging
boughs, and in the silence of a glowing autumn-day linger by the hour together in a trance
of warm stillness, watching the light tracery of shadow and sun on that smooth sward, only
now and then roused by the fleet rush of a deer through the wood, or the brisk chatter of a
plume-tailed squirrel, till one hears a distant, sharp, clucking chuckle, and in an instant
more pulls the trigger, and upsets a grand old cock, every bronzed feather glittering in the
sunshine, and now splashed with scarlet blood, the delicate underwing ground into down as he
rolls and flutters; for the first shot rarely kills at once with an amateur; there's too much
excitement. Splendid sport, that! but I'm not going into it second-hand. I promised to tell
you a story, now the skipper's fast, and the night is too warm to think of sleep down in that
wretched bunk;--what another torture Dante might have lavished on his Inferno, if he'd ever
slept in a fishing-smack! No. The moonlight makes me sentimental! Did I ever tell you about
a month I spent up in Centreville, the year I came home from Germany? That was turkey-hunting
with a vengeance!

You see, my pretty cousin Peggy married Peter Smith, who owns paper-mills in Centreville, and
has exiled herself into deep country for life; a circumstance I disapprove, because I like
Peggy, and manufacturers always bore me, though Peter is a clever fellow enough; but madam
was an old flame of mine, and I have a lingering tenderness for her yet. I wish she was nearer
town. Just that year Peggy had been very ill indeed, and Kate, her sister, had gone up to nurse
her. When I came home Peggy was getting better, and sent for me to come up and make a visitation
there in June. I hadn't seen Kate for seven years,--not since she was thirteen; our education
intervened. She had gone through that grading process and come out. By Jupiter! when she met
me at the door of Smith's pretty, English-looking cottage, I took my hat off, she was so like
that little Brazilian princess we used to see in the cortége of the court at Paris. What was
her name? Never mind that! Kate had just such large, expressive eyes, just such masses of shiny
black hair, just such a little nose,--turned up undeniably, but all the more piquant. And her
teeth! good gracious! she smiled like a flash of lightning,--dark and sallow as she was. But
she was cross, or stiff, or something, to me for a long time. Peggy only appeared after dinner,
looking pale and lovely enough in her loose wrapper to make Peter act excessively like----a
young married man, and to make me wish myself at an invisible distance, doing something beside
picking up Kate's things, that she always dropped on the floor whenever she sewed. Peggy saw
I was bored, so she requested me one day to walk down to the poultry-yard and ask about her
chickens; she pretended a great deal of anxiety, and Peter had sprained his ankle.

"Kate will go with you," said she.

"No, she won't!" ejaculated that young woman.

"Thank you," said I, making a minuet bow, and off I went to the farm-house. Such a pretty walk
it was, too! through a thicket of birches, down a little hill-side into a hollow full of hoary
chestnut-trees, across a bubbling, dancing brook, and you came out upon the tiniest orchard
in the world, a one-storied house with a red porch, and a great sweet-brier bush thereby; while
up the hill-side behind stretched a high picket fence, enclosing huge trees, part of the same
brook I had crossed here dammed into a pond, and a chicken-house of pretentious height and
aspect,--one of those model institutions that are the ruin of gentlemen-farmers and the delight
of women. I had to go into the farm-kitchen for the poultry-yard key. The door stood open,
and I stepped in cautiously, lest I should come unaware upon some domestic scene not intended
to be visible to the naked eye. And a scene I did come upon, fit for Retzsch to outline;--the
cleanest kitchen, a dresser of white wood under one window, and the farmer's daughter, Melinda
Tucker, moulding bread thereat in a ponderous tray; her deep red hair,--yes, it was red and
comely! of the deepest bay, full of gilded reflections, and accompanied by the fair, rose-flushed
skin, blue eyes, and scarlet lips that belong to such hair,--which, as I began to say, was
puckered into a thousand curves trying to curl, and knotted strictly against a pretty head,
while her calico frock-sleeves were pinned-back to the shoulders, baring such a dimpled pair
of arms,--how they did fly up and down in the tray! I stood still contemplating the picture,
and presently seeing her begin to strip the dough from her pink fingers and mould it into a
mass, I ventured to knock. If you had seen her start and blush, Polder! But when she saw me,
she grew as cool as you please, and called her mother. Down came Mrs. Tucker, a talking Yankee.
You don't know what that is. Listen, then.

"Well, good day, sir! I'xpect it's Mister Greene, Miss Smith's cousin. Well, you be! Don't
favor her much though; she's kinder dark complected. She ha'n't got round yet, hes she? Dew
tell! She's dre'ful delicate. I do'no' as ever I see a woman so sickly's she looks ter be sence
that 'ere fever. She's real spry when she's so's to be crawlin',--I'xpect too spry to be 'hulsome.
Well, he tells me you've ben 'crost the water. 'Ta'n't jest like this over there, I guess.
Pretty sightly places they be though, a'n't they? I've seen picturs in Melindy's jography,
looks as ef 'twa'n't so woodsy over there as 'tis in these parts, 'specially out West. He's
got folks out to Indianny, an' we sot out fur to go a-cousinin', five year back, an' we got
out there inter the dre'fullest woodsy region ever ye see, where 'twa'n't trees, it was 'sketers;
husband he couldn't see none out of his eyes for a hull day, and I thought I should caterpillar
every time I heerd one of 'em toot; they sartainly was the beater-ee!"

"The key, if you please!" I meekly interposed. Mrs. Tucker was fast stunning me!

"Law yis! Melindy, you go git that 'ere key; it's a-hangin' up'side o' the lookin'glass in
the back shed, under that bunch o' onions father strung up yisterday. Got the bread sot to
rise, hev ye? well, git yer bunnet an' go out to the coop with Mr. Greene, 'n' show him the
turkeys an' the chickens, 'n' tell what dre'ful luck we hev hed. I never did see sech luck!
the crows they keep a-comin' an' snippin' up the little creturs jest as soon's they're hatched;
an' the old turkey hen't sot under the grapevine she got two hen's eggs under her, 'n' they
come out fust, so she quit--"

Here I bolted out of the door, (a storm at sea did not deafen one like that!) Melindy following,
in silence such as our blessed New England poet has immortalized,--silence that

    "--Like a poultice comes,
     To heal the blows of sound."

Indeed, I did not discover that Melindy could talk that day; she was very silent, very incommunicative.
I inspected the fowls, and tried to look wise, but I perceived a strangled laugh twisting Melindy's
face when I innocently inquired if she found catnip of much benefit to the little chickens;
a natural question enough, for the yard was full of it, and I had seen Hannah give it to the
baby. (Hannah is my sister.) I could only see two little turkeys,--both on the floor of the
second-story parlor in the chicken-house, both flat on their backs and gasping. Melindy did
not know what ailed them; so I picked them up, slung them in my pocket-handkerchief, and took
them home for Peggy to manipulate. I heard Melindy chuckle as I walked off, swinging them;
and to be sure, when I brought the creatures in to Peggy, one of them kicked and lay still,
and the other gasped worse than ever.

"What can we do?" asked Peggy, in the most plaintive voice, as the feeble "week! week!" of
the little turkey was gasped out, more feebly every time.

"Give it some whiskey-punch!" growled Peter, whose strict temperance principles were shocked
by the remedies prescribed for Peggy's ague.

"So I would," said Kate, demurely.

Now if Peggy had one trait more striking than another, it was her perfect, simple faith in
what people said; irony was a mystery to her; lying, a myth,--something on a par with murder.
She thought Kate meant so; and reaching out for the pretty wicker-flask that contained her
daily ration of old Scotch whiskey, she dropped a little drop into a spoon, diluted it with
water, and was going to give it to the turkey in all seriousness, when Kate exclaimed,--

"Peggy! when will you learn common sense? Who ever heard of giving whiskey to a turkey?"

"Why, you told me to, Kate!"

"Oh, give it to the thing!" growled Peter; "it will die, of course."

"I shall give it!" said Peggy, resolutely; "it does me good, and I will try."

So I held the little creature up, while Peggy carefully tipped the dose down its throat. How
it choked, kicked, and began again with "week! week!" when it meant "strong!" but it revived.
Peggy held it in the sun till it grew warm, gave it a drop more, fed it with bread-crumbs from
her own plate, and laid it on the south window-sill. There it lay when we went to tea; when
we came back, it lay on the floor, dead; either it was tipsy, or it had tried its new strength
too soon, and, rolling off, had broken its neck! Poor Peggy!

There were six more hatched the next day, though, and I held many consultations with Melindy
about their welfare. Truth to tell, Kate continued so cool to me, Peter's sprained ankle lasted
so long, and Peggy could so well spare me from the little matrimonial tête-à-têtes that I interrupted,
(I believe they didn't mind Kate!) that I took wonderfully to the chickens. Mrs. Tucker gave
me rye-bread and milk of the best; "father" instructed me in the mysteries of cattle-driving;
and Melindy, and Joe, and I, used to go strawberrying, or after "posies," almost every day.
Melindy was a very pretty girl, and it was very good fun to see her blue eyes open and her
red lips laugh over my European experiences. Really, I began to be of some importance at the
farm-house, and to take airs upon myself, I suppose; but I was not conscious of the fact at
the time.

After a week or two, Melindy and I began to have bad luck with the turkeys. I found two drenched
and shivering, after a hail-and-thunder storm, and setting them in a basket on the cooking-stove
hearth, went to help Melindy "dress her bow-pot," as she called arranging a vase of flowers,
and when I came back the little turkeys were singed; they died a few hours after. Two more
were trodden on by a great Shanghai rooster, who was so tall he could not see where he set
his feet down; and of the remaining pair, one disappeared mysteriously,--supposed to be rats;
and one falling into the duck-pond, Melindy began to dry it in her apron, and I went to help
her; I thought, as I was rubbing the thing down with the apron, while she held it, that I had
found one of her soft dimpled hands, and I gave the luckless turkey such a tender pressure
that it uttered a miserable squeak and departed this life. Melindy all but cried. I laughed
irresistibly. So there were no more turkeys. Peggy began to wonder what they should do for
the proper Thanksgiving dinner, and Peter turned restlessly on his sofa, quite convinced that
everything was going to rack and ruin because he had a sprained ankle.

"Can't we buy some young turkeys?"  timidly suggested Peggy.

"Of course, if one knew who had them to sell," retorted Peter.

"I know," said I; "Mrs. Amzi Peters, up on the hill over Taunton, has got some."

"Who told you about Mrs. Peters's turkeys, Cousin Sam?" said Peggy, wondering.

"Melindy," said I, quite innocently.

Peter whistled, Peggy laughed, Kate darted a keen glance at me under her long lashes.

"I know the way there," said mademoiselle, in a suspiciously bland tone. "Can't you drive there
with me, Cousin Sam, and get some more?"

"I shall be charmed," said I.

Peter rang the bell and ordered the horse to be ready in the single-seated wagon, after dinner.
I was going right down to the farm-house to console Melindy, and take her a book she wanted
to read, for no fine lady of all my New York acquaintance enjoyed a good book more than she
did; but Cousin Kate asked me to wind some yarn for her, and was so brilliant, so amiable,
so altogether charming, I quite forgot Melindy till dinner-time, and then, when that was over,
there was a basket to be found, and we were off,--turkey-hunting! Down hill-sides overhung
with tasselled chestnut-boughs; through pine-woods where neither horse nor wagon intruded any
noise of hoof or wheel upon the odorous silence, as we rolled over the sand, past green meadows,
and sloping orchards; over little bright brooks that chattered musically to the bobolinks on
the fence-posts, and were echoed by those sacerdotal gentlemen in such liquid, bubbling, rollicking,
uproarious bursts of singing as made one think of Anacreon's grasshopper

    "Drunk with morning's dewy wine."

All these we passed, and at length drew up before Mrs. Peters's house. I had been here before,
on a strawberrying stroll with Melindy,--(across lots it was not far,)--and having been asked
in then, and entertained the lady with a recital of some foreign exploit, garnished for the
occasion, of course she recognized me with clamorous hospitality.

"Why how do yew do, Mister Greene? I declare I ha'n't done a-thinkin' of that 'ere story you
told us the day you was here, 'long o' Melindy." (Kate gave an ominous little cough.) "I was
a-tellin' husband yesterday 't I never see sech a master hand for stories as you be. Well,
yis, we hev got turkeys, young 'uns; but my stars! I don't know no more where they be than
nothin'; they've strayed away into the woods, I guess, and I do'no' as the boys can skeer 'em
up; besides, the boys is to school; h'm--yis! Where did you and Melindy go that day arter berries?"

"Up in the pine-lot, ma'am. You think you can't let us have the turkeys?"

"Dew tell ef you went up there! It's near about the sightliest place I ever see. Well, no,--I
don't see how's to ketch them turkeys. Miss Bemont, she't lives over on Woodchuck Hill, she's
got a lot o' little turkeys in a coop; I guess you'd better go 'long over there, an' ef you
can't get none o' her'n, by that time our boys'll be to hum, an' I'll set 'em arter our'n;
they'll buckle right to; it's good sport huntin' little turkeys; an' I guess you'll hev to
stop, comin' home, so's to let me know ef you'll hev 'em."

Off we drove. I stood in mortal fear of Mrs. Peters's tongue,--and Kate's comments; but she
did not make any; she was even more charming than before. Presently we came to the pine-lot,
where Melindy and I had been, and I drew the reins. I wanted to see Kate's enjoyment of a scene
that Kensett or Church should have made immortal long ago:--a wide stretch of hill and valley,
quivering with cornfields, rolled away in pasture lands, thick with sturdy woods, or dotted
over with old apple-trees, whose dense leaves caught the slant sunshine, glowing on their tops,
and deepening to a dark, velvety green below, and far, far away, on the broad blue sky, the
lurid splendors of a thunder-cloud, capped with pearly summits, tower upon tower, sharply defined
against the pure ether, while in its purple base forked lightnings sped to and fro, and revealed
depths of waiting tempest that could not yet descend. Kate looked on, and over the superb picture.

"How magnificent!" was all she said, in a deep, low tone, her dark cheek flushing with the
words. Melindy and I had looked off there together. "It's real good land to farm," had been
the sweet little rustic's comment. How charming are nature and simplicity!

Presently we came to Mrs. Bemont's, a brown house in a cluster of maples; the door-yard full
of chickens, turkeys, ducks, and geese. Kate took the reins, and I knocked. Mrs. Bemont herself
appeared, wiping her red, puckered hands on a long brown towel.

"Can you let me have some of your young turkeys, ma'am?" said I, insinuatingly.

"Well, I do'no';--want to eat 'em or raise 'em?"

"Both, I believe," was my meek answer.

"I do'no' 'bout lettin' on 'em go; 'ta'n't no gret good to sell 'em after all the risks is
over; they git their own livin' pretty much now, an' they'll be wuth twice as much by'm'by."

"I suppose so; but Mrs. Smith's turkeys have all died, and she likes to raise them."

"Dew tell, ef you han't come from Miss Peter Smith's! Well, she'd oughter do gret things with
that 'ere meetin'-'us o' her'n for the chickens; it's kinder genteel-lookin', and I spose they've
got means; they've got ability. Gentility without ability I do despise; but where 't'a'n't
so, 't'a'n't no matter; but I'xpect it don't ensure the faowls none, doos it?"

"I rather think not," said I, laughing; "that is the reason we want some of yours."

"Well, I should think you could hev some on 'em. What be you calc'latin' to give?"

"Whatever you say. I do not know at all the market price."

"Good land! 't'a'n't never no use to try to dicker with city folks; they a'n't use to't. I'xpect
you can hev 'em for two York shillin' apiece."

"But how will you catch them?"

"Oh, I'll ketch 'em, easy!"

She went into the house and reappeared presently with a pan of Indian meal and water, called
the chickens, and in a moment they were all crowding in and over the unexpected supper.

"Now you jes' take a bit o' string an' tie that 'ere turkey's legs together; 'twon't stir,
I'll ensure it!"

Strange to say, the innocent creature stood still and eat, while I tied it up; all unconscious
till it tumbled neck and heels into the pan, producing a start and scatter of brief duration.
Kate had left the wagon, and was shaking with laughter over this extraordinary goodness on
the turkeys' part, and before long our basket was full of struggling, kicking, squeaking things,
"werry promiscuous," in Mr. Weller's phrase. Mrs. Bemont was paid, and while she was giving
me the change,--

"Oh!" said she, "you're goin' right to Miss Tucker's, a'n't ye?--got to drop the turkeys;--won't
you tell Miss Tucker 't George is comin' home tomorrer, an' he's ben to Californy. She know'd
us allers, and Melindy 'n' George used ter be dre'ful thick 'fore he went off, a good spell
back, when they was nigh about childern; so I guess you'd better tell 'em."

"Confound these turkeys!" muttered I, as I jumped over the basket.

"Why?" said Kate, "I suspect they are confounded enough already!"

"They make such a noise, Kate!"

So they did; "week! week! week!"  all the way, like a colony from some spring-waked pool.

    "Their song might be compared
    To the croaking of frogs in a pond!"

The drive was lovelier than before. The road crept and curled down the hill, now covered from
side to side with the interlacing boughs of grand old chestnuts; now barriered on the edge
of a ravine with broken fragments and boulders of granite, garlanded by heavy vines; now skirting
orchards full of promise; and all the way companied by a tiny brook, veiled deeply in alder
and hazel thickets, and making in its shadowy channel perpetual muffled music, like a child
singing in the twilight to reassure its half-fearful heart. Kate's face was softened and full
of rich expression; her pink ribbons threw a delicate tinge of bloom upon the rounded cheek
and pensive eyelid; the air was pure balm, and a cool breath from the receding showers of the
distant thunderstorm just freshened the odors of wood and field. I began to feel suspiciously
that sentimental, but through it all came persevering "week! week! week!" from the basket at
my feet. Did I make a fine remark on the beauties of nature, "Week!" echoed the turkeys. Did
Kate praise some tint or shape by the way, "Week! week!" was the feeble response. Did we get
deep in poetry, romance, or metaphysics, through the most brilliant quotation, the sublimest
climax, the most acute distinction, came in "Week! week! week!" I began to feel as if the old
story of transmigration were true, and the souls of half a dozen quaint and ancient satirists
had got into the turkeys. I could not endure it! Was I to be squeaked out of all my wisdom,
and knowledge, and device, after this fashion? Never! I began, too, to discover a dawning smile
upon Kate's face; she turned her head away, and I placed the turkey-basket on my knees, hoping
a change of position might quiet its contents. Never was man more at fault! they were no way
stilled by my magnetism; on the contrary, they threw their sarcastic utterances into my teeth,
as it were, and shamed me to my very face. I forgot entirely to go round by Mrs. Peters's.
I took a cross-road directly homeward; a pause--a lull--took place among the turkeys.

"How sweet and mystical this hour is!"  said I to Kate, in a high-flown manner; "it is indeed

   "'An hour when lips delay to speak,
    Oppressed with silence deep and pure;
    When passion pauses--'"

"Week! week! week!" chimed in those confounded turkeys. Kate burst into a helpless fit of laughter.
What could I do? I had to laugh myself, since I must not choke the turkeys.

"Excuse me, Cousin Sam," said Kate, in a laughter-wearied tone, "I could not help it; turkeys
and sentimentality do not agree--always!" adding the last word maliciously, as I sprang out
to open the farm-house gate, and disclosed Melindy, framed in the buttery window, skimming
milk; a picture worthy of Wilkie. I delivered over my captives to Joe, and stalked into the
kitchen to give Mrs. Bemont's message. Melindy came out; but as soon as I began to tell her
mother where I got that message, Miss Melindy, with the sang froid of a duchess, turned back
to her skimming,--or appeared to. I gained nothing by that move.

Peggy and Peter received us benignly; so universal a solvent is success, even in turkey-hunting!
I meant to have gone down to the farm-house after tea, and inquired about the safety of my
prizes, but Kate wanted to play chess. Peter couldn't, and Peggy wouldn't; I had to, of course,
and we played late. Kate had such pretty hands; long taper fingers, rounded to the tiniest
rosy points; no dimples, but full muscles, firm and exquisitely moulded; and the dainty way
in which she handled her men was half the game to me;--I lost it; I played wretchedly. The
next day Kate went with me to see the turkeys; so she did the day after. We were forgetting
Melindy, I am afraid, for it was a week before I remembered I had promised her a new magazine.
I recollected myself; then, with a sort of shame, rolled up the number, and went off to the
farm-house. It seems Kate was there, busy in the garret, unpacking a bureau that had been stored
there, with some of Peggy's foreign purchases, for summer wear, in the drawers. I did not know
that. I found Melindy spreading yeast-cakes to dry on a table, just by the north end of the
house; a hop-vine in full blossom made a sort of porch-roof over the window by which she stood.

"I've brought your book, Melindy," said I.

"Thank you, sir," returned she, crisply.

"How pretty you look to-day." condescendingly remarked I.

"I don't thank you for that, sir;--

    "'Praise to the face
      Is open disgrace!'"

was all the response.

"Why, Melindy! what makes you so cross?" inquired I, in a tone meant to be tenderly reproachful,--in
the mean time attempting to possess myself of her hand; for, to be honest, Polder, I had been
a little sweet to the girl before Kate drove her out of my head. The hand was snatched away.
I tried indifference.

"How are the turkeys to-day. Melindy?"

Here Joe, an enfant terrible, came upon the scene suddenly.

"Them turkeys eats a lot, Mister Greene. Melindy says there's one on 'em struts jes' like you,
'n' makes as much gabble."

"Gobble! gobble! gobble!" echoed an old turkey from somewhere; I thought it was overhead, but
I saw nothing. Melindy threw her apron over her face and laughed till her arms grew red. I
picked up my hat and walked off. For three days I kept out of that part of the Smith demesne,
I assure you! Kate began to grow mocking and derisive; she teased me from morning till night,
and the more she teased me, the more I adored her. I was getting desperate, when one Sunday
night Kate asked me to walk down to the farm-house with her after tea, as Mrs. Tucker was sick,
and she had something to take to her. We found the old woman sitting up in the kitchen, and
as full of talk as ever, though an unlucky rheumatism kept her otherwise quiet.

"How do the turkeys come on, Mrs. Tucker?" said I, by way of conversation.

"Well, I declare, you han't heerd about them turkeys, hev ye? You see they was doin' fine,
and father he went off to salt for a spell, so's to see'f 'twouldn't stop a complaint he's
got,--I do'no' but it's a spine in the back,--makes him kinder' faint by spells, so's he loses
his conscientiousness all to once; so he left the chickens 'n' things for Melindy to boss,
'n' she got somethin' else into her head, 'n' she left the door open one night, and them ten
turkeys they up and run away, I'xpect they took to the woods, 'fore Melindy brought to mind
how't she hadn't shut the door. She's set out fur to hunt 'em. I shouldn't wonder'f she was
out now, seein' it's arter sundown."

"She a'n't nuther!" roared the terrible Joe, from behind the door, where he had retreated at
my coming. "She's settin' on a flour-barrel down by the well, an' George Bemont's a-huggin' on her"

Good gracious! what a slap Mrs. Tucker fetched that unlucky child, with a long brown towel
that hung at hand! and how he howled! while Kate exploded with laughter, in spite of her struggles
to keep quiet.

"He is the dre'fullest boy!" whined Mrs. Tucker. "Melindy tells how he sassed you 'tother day,
Mr. Greene. I shall hev to tewtor that boy; he's got to hev the rod, I guess!"

I bade Mrs. Tucker good night, for Kate was already out of the door, and, before I knew what
she was about, had taken a by-path in sight of the well; and there, to be sure, sat Melindy,
on a prostrate flour-barrel that was rolled to the foot of the big apple-tree, twirling her
fingers in pretty embarrassment, and held on her insecure perch by the stout arm of George
Bemont, a handsome brown fellow, evidently very well content just now.

"Pretty,--isn't it?" said Kate.

"Very,--quite pastoral," sniffed I.

We were sitting round the open door an hour after, listening to a whippoorwill, and watching
the slow moon rise over a hilly range just east of Centreville, when that elvish little "week!
week!" piped out of the wood that lay behind the house.

"That is hopeful," said Kate; "I think Melindy and George must have tracked the turkeys to
their haunt, and scared them homeward."

"George--who?" said Peggy.

"George Bemont; it seems he is--what is your Connecticut phrase?--sparkin' Melindy."

"I'm very glad; he is a clever fellow," said Peter.

"And she is such a very pretty girl," continued Peggy,--"so intelligent and graceful; don't
you think so, Sam?"

"Aw, yes, well enough for a rustic," said I, languidly. "I never could endure red hair, though!"

Kate stopped on the door-sill; she had risen to go up stairs.

"Gobble! gobble! gobble!" mocked she. I had heard that once before! Peter and Peggy roared;--they
knew it all;--I was sold!

"Cure me of Kate Stevens?" Of course it did. I never saw her again without wanting to fight
shy, I was so sure of an allusion to turkeys. No, I took the first down train. There are more
pretty girls in New York, twice over, than there are in Centreville, I console myself; but,
by George! Polder, Kate Stevens was charming!--Look out there! don't meddle with the skipper's
coils of rope! can't you sleep on deck without a pillow?

ROBIN HOOD.

There is no one of the royal heroes of England that enjoys a more enviable reputation than
the bold outlaw of Barnsdale and Sherwood. His chance for a substantial immortality is at least
as good as that of stout Lion-Heart, wild Prince Hal, or merry Charles. His fame began with
the yeomanry full five hundred years ago, was constantly increasing for two or three centuries,
has extended to all classes of society, and, with some changes of aspect, is as great as ever.
Bishops, sheriffs, and game-keepers, the only enemies he ever had, have relinquished their
ancient grudges, and Englishmen would be almost as loath to surrender his exploits as any part
of the national glory. His free life in the woods, his unerring eye and strong arm, his open
hand and love of fair play, his never forgotten courtesy, his respect for women and devotion
to Mary, form a picture eminently healthful and agreeable to the imagination, and commend him
to the hearty favor of all genial minds.

But securely established as Robin Hood is in popular esteem, his historical position is by
no means well ascertained, and his actual existence has been a subject of shrewd doubt and
discussion. "A tale of Robin Hood" is an old proverb for the idlest of stories; yet all the
materials at our command for making up an opinion on these questions are precisely of this
description. They consist, that is to say, of a few ballads of unknown antiquity. These ballads,
or others like them, are clearly the authority upon which the statements of the earlier chroniclers
who take notice of Robin Hood are founded. They are also, to all appearance, the original source
of the numerous and wide-spread traditions concerning him; which, unless the contrary can be
shown, must be regarded, according to the almost universal rule in such cases, as having been
suggested by the very legends to which, in the vulgar belief, they afford an irresistible confirmation.

Various periods, ranging from the time of Richard the First to near the end of the reign of
Edward the Second, have been selected by different writers as the age of Robin Hood; but (excepting
always the most ancient ballads, which may possibly be placed within these limits) no mention
whatever is made of him in literature before the latter half of the reign of Edward the Third.
"Rhymes of Robin Hood" are then spoken of by the author of "Piers Ploughman" (assigned to about
1362) as better known to idle fellows than pious songs, and from the manner of the allusion
it is a just inference that such rhymes were at that time no novelties. The next notice is
in Wyntown's Scottish Chronicle, written about 1420, where the following lines occur--without
any connection, and in the form of an entry--under the year 1283:--

   "Lytil Jhon and Robyne Hude
    Wayth-men ware commendyd gude:
    In Yngil-wode and Barnysdale
    Thai oysyd all this tyme thare trawale."[1]

At last we encounter Robin Hood in what may be called history; first of all in a passage of
the "Scotichronicon," often quoted, and highly curious as containing the earliest theory upon
this subject. The "Scotichronicon" was written partly by Fordun, canon of Aberdeen, between
1377 and 1384, and partly by his pupil Bower, abbot of St. Columba, about 1450. Fordun has
the character of a man of judgment and research, and any statement or opinion delivered by
him would be entitled to respect. Of Bower not so much can be said. He largely interpolated
the work of his master, and sometimes with the absurdest fictions.[2] Among his interpolations,
and forming, it is important to observe, no part of the original text, is a passage translated
as follows. It is inserted immediately after Fordun's account of the defeat of Simon de Montfort,
and the punishments inflicted on his adherents.

"At this time, [sc. 1266,] from the number of those who had been deprived of their estates
arose the celebrated bandit Robert Hood, (with Little John and their accomplices,) whose achievements
the foolish vulgar delight to celebrate in comedies and tragedies, while the ballads upon his
adventures sung by the jesters and minstrels are preferred to all others.

"Some things to his honor are also related, as appears from this. Once on a time, when, having
incurred the anger of the king and the prince, he could hear mass nowhere but in Barnsdale,
while he was devoutly occupied with the service, (for this was his wont, nor would he ever
suffer it to be interrupted for the most pressing occasion,) he was surprised by a certain
sheriff and officers of the king, who had often troubled him before, in the secret place in
the woods where he was engaged in worship as aforesaid. Some of his men, who had taken the
alarm, came to him and begged him to fly with all speed. This, out of reverence for the host,
which he was then most devoutly adoring, he positively refused to do. But while the rest of
his followers were trembling for their lives, Robert, confiding in Him whom he worshipped,
fell on his enemies with a few who chanced to be with him, and easily got the better of them;
and having enriched himself with their plunder and ransom, he was led from that time forth
to hold ministers of the church and masses in greater veneration than ever, mindful of the
common saying, that

    "'God hears the man who often hears the mass.'"

In another place Bower writes to the same effect: "In this year [1266] the dispossessed barons
of England and the royalists were engaged in fierce hostilities. Among the former, Roger Mortimer
occupied the Welsh marches, and John Daynil the Isle of Ely. Robert Hood was now living in
outlawry among the woodland copses and thickets."

Mair, a Scottish writer of the first quarter of the sixteenth century, the next historian who
takes cognizance of our hero, and the only other that requires any attention, has a passage
which may be considered in connection with the foregoing. In his "Historia Majoris Britanniae"
he remarks, under the reign of Richard the First: "About this time [1189-99], as I conjecture,
the notorious robbers, Robert Hood of England and Little John, lurked in the woods, spoiling
the goods only of rich men. They slew nobody but those who attacked them, or offered resistance
in defence of their property. Robert maintained by his plunder a hundred archers, so skilful
in fight that four hundred brave men feared to attack them. He suffered no woman to be maltreated,
and never robbed the poor, but assisted them abundantly with the wealth which he took from abbots."

It appears, then, that contemporaneous history is absolutely silent concerning Robin Hood;
that, excepting the casual allusion in "Piers Ploughman," he is first mentioned by a rhyming
chronicler who wrote one hundred years after the latest date at which he can possibly be supposed
to have lived, and then by two prose chroniclers who wrote about one hundred and twenty-five
years and two hundred years respectively after that date; and it is further manifest that all
three of these chroniclers had no other authority for their statements than traditional tales
similar to those which have come down to our day. When, therefore, Thierry, relying upon these
chronicles and kindred popular legends, unhesitatingly adopts the conjecture of Mair, and describes
Robin Hood as the hero of the Saxon serfs, the chief of a troop of Saxon banditti, that continued,
even to the reign of Coeur de Lion, a determined resistance against the Norman invaders,[3]--and
when another able and plausible writer accepts and maintains, with equal confidence, the hypothesis
of Bower, and exhibits the renowned outlaw as an adherent of Simon de Montfort, who, after
the fatal battle of Evesham, kept up a vigorous guerilla warfare against the officers of the
tyrant Henry the Third, and of his successor,[4] we must regard these representations, which
were conjectural three or four centuries ago, as conjectures still, and even as arbitrary conjectures,
unless one or the other can be proved from the only authorities we have, the ballads, to have
a peculiar intrinsic probability. That neither of them possesses this intrinsic probability
may easily be shown; but first it will be advisable to notice another theory, which is more
plausibly founded on internal evidence, and claims to be confirmed by documents of unimpeachable
validity.

This theory has been propounded by the Rev. John Hunter, in one of his "Critical and Historical
Tracts."[5] Mr. Hunter admits that Robin Hood "lives only as a hero of song"; that he is not
found in authentic contemporary chronicles; and that, when we find him mentioned in history,
"the information was derived from the ballads, and is not independent of them or correlative
with them." While making these admissions, he accords a considerable degree of credibility
to the ballads, and particularly to the "Lytell Geste," the last two fits of which he regards
as giving a tolerably accurate account of real occurrences.

