

Bath.

    [HUGGER-MUGGER, says Dr. Richardson, is the common way of writing this
    word, from Udal to the present time. No probable etymology, he adds,
    has yet been given. Sir John Stoddart (Ency. Metropolitana, vol i. p.
    120.) has given a long article on this word, which concludes with the
    following remarks:--"The last etymology that we shall mention is from
    the Dutch title, {342} Hoog Moogende (High Mightinesses), given to
    the States-General, and much ridiculed by some of our English writers;
    as in Hudibras:

     'But I have sent him for a token
      To your Low-country, Hogen Mogen.'

    It has been supposed that hugger-mugger, corrupted from Hogen
    Mogen, was meant in derision of the secret transactions of their
    Mightinesses; but it is probable that the former word was known in
    English before the latter, and upon the whole it seems most probable
    that hugger is a mere intensitive form of hug, and that mugger is
    a reduplication of sound with a slight variation, which is so common in
    cases of this kind."]

Balderdash.--What is the meaning and the etymology of "balderdash?"

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

    [Skinner suggests the following etymology: "BALDERDASH, potus mixtus,
    credo ab A.-S. bald, audax, balder, audacior vel audacius, et
    nostro dash; miscere, q.d. potus temere mixtus." Dr. Jamieson
    explains it as "foolish and noisy talk. Islandic, bulldur, stultorum
    balbuties." Dr. Ogilvie, however, has queried its derivation from the
    "Spanish balda, a trifle, or baldonar, to insult with abusive
    language; Welsh, baldorz, to prattle. Mean, senseless prate; a jargon
    of words; ribaldry; anything jumbled together without judgment."]

Lovell, Sculptor.--What is known of this artist? That he was in advance of the age he flourished
in is evinced by his beautifully executed engravings in Love's Sacrifice (fol. Lond. 1652),
which for delicacy of work are far beyond anything of the period.

R.C. WARDE.

Kidderminster.

    [Is the name Lovell, or Loisell? for we find that Strutt, in his
    Dictionary of Engravers, vol. ii. p. 101., speaks of "P. Loisell
    having affixed some slight etchings, something in the style of Gaywood
    (if I mistake not), to Benlowe's Theophilia, or Love's Sacrifice."]

St. Werenfrid and Butler's "Lives of the Saints."--One of your correspondents will perhaps
explain the cause of an omission in Butler's Lives of the Saints. The life of St. Werenfrid,
whose anniversary is the 14th of August, is abstracted, vol. iii. p. 492. His name occurs in
the table of contents: and pages 493 and 494, where the life should have appeared, are wanting;
still page 495 follows 492 correctly in type, so that the former must have been reprinted after
the castration of the leaf. Was the saint deemed unworthy of the place which had been allotted
to him?

J. H. M.

    [In the best edition of Butler's Lives (12 vols., 1812-13), the life
    of St. Werenfrid is given on Nov. 7. He is honored in Holland on the
    14th of August; and his life appears in Britannia Sancta on that day,
    but in the Bollandists on the 28th of August.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

SIR W. HANKFORD-GASCOIGNE'S TOMB.

(Vol. viii., p. 278.)

On reading MR. SANSOM'S letter, it occurred to me that I had seen a different account of the
master being shot by his park-keeper; and on search I found the following in 1 Hale's P. C.
p. 40., which I send, as it may tend to clear up the question:

