 By and by, however, it
became evident to his most sanguine supporter that Sommerset had no chance; Sir Jonas and Lord
Lumberdale themselves advised him to give up the contest; but the man had been persuaded that
the safety of Great Tattleton, if not that of the British nation, depended on him, and a persuasion
once in Sommerset's head was not easily got out. He believed on, in spite of them and fortune.
I never found out precisely what the business cost him; nobody dared inquire, and he burned
all the accounts; but at length the last day's poll was taken, and amid cheers, yells, and
a newly-begun row, Levison Stopford, Esq., was declared duly elected.

Men cannot have Waterloos of their own every day. No wonder, then, that the honourable member's
glory was too great for his prudence: scarcely had the poll closed, when it became generally
known in front of the Stopford Arms, that there were two barrels of strong beer, which his
liberality had devoted to the populace. On the publication of this intelligence, the ancient
ceremony of chairing went on with more than usual vigour. It was a quiet autumn evening, but
there was no peace for Tattleton. The shops and houses of Stopford's friends were lighting
up in every quarter for a grand illumination, while the opposition and the stingy were closing
as quickly as possible. Half the rabble of the county were gathered in the streets; all our
own respectability occupied doors and windows; and forth from the town-hall, in a substantial
armchair, decorated with bunches of ribbons, blue and red--the Stopford colours--borne in high
triumph by his most zealous and noisy adherents, came the newly-chosen senator (a rather stout
gentleman, and father of a hopeful family), scattering coppers and silver with no sparing hand,
from a large canvas bag, among the crowd, who roared and scrambled in all the might of beer.
Old politicians said it was a great victory for Whig principles, and many a joke was cracked
at the unsuccessful candidate's expense. Some believed he had retired behind bolt and bar;
others that he was defying fortune at a late dinner. If the latter statement were true, Sommerset's
company must have been small. The Earl and Sir Jonas had long since washed their hands of him,
as incorrigibly obstinate. The more influential of his supporters kept out of sight, being
rather ashamed of the losing side; and, I grieve to say, the barrels had utterly shaken the
faith of many a voteless adherent, the freeholders of our streets and lanes, who now shouted
Stopford instead of Cloudesly for ever. Some there were, nevertheless, with souls above barrels--men
who had votes, and men who had none--and they collected their forces at the foot of the main
street, as vantage-ground from which to groan at the above-mentioned procession, and inform
Mr Stopford of their intentions to unseat him for bribery and corruption.

Great Tattleton was not a fighting place--a serious riot had never occurred within the memory
of its 'oldest inhabitant;' yet on that evening quiet people began to feel uneasy; and my particular
friend, Miss Croply, had selected it as a fitting occasion for her tea-party. Miss Croply was
a maiden lady of some fifty years, and great note among us. She drew dividends at the bank;
kept her own establishment, consisting of a maid and a boy; and gave select parties. Moreover,
Miss Croply was a Tory after her own fashion. She said there was nothing she hated but Radicals
and reformers, for all they wanted was to bring down the respectable people, and maybe break
the banks. On these principles, she had been in great fervour for Sommerset Cloudesly; and
by way of testifying that his defeat had not broken her spirit, Miss Croply assembled the Priors,
myself, and two or three other favoured friends, to tea and crumpets prepared by her own fair
hands. These requisites were on the table, and the party assembled in the little drawing-room,
all but Lily, whom her mother had left to manage some domestic matter (the old lady was particular
at times); but at its conclusion, Lily was to come through the lane, over the fields, and up
Miss Croply's garden, to avoid the crowd, and shew the beautiful new bonnet she had received
that morning as a present from her aunt. We all knew Lily to be exact; but the hour had come,
and not the woman.

'Don't draw that curtain, if you please, Mr Prior; I would not gratify the low creatures by
looking out!' said Miss Croply, as shouts louder than ordinary rose from the street, and old
Tom stepped to the window. The noise came nearer. It sounded like, 'Miss Prior for ever!' We
rushed in a body to the windows. Miss Croply herself drew the curtain. There was a woman borne
in a garden-chair, dangerously high, by the most zealous of the Cloudeslyites, while the rest
followed in applauding procession, augmented every moment, and Tom's hands went together like
the 'crack of doom' as he exclaimed: 'By jingo, it's my own daughter!'

Lily it was, in her pretty green gown, white shawl, and gay new bonnet--it was trimmed with
pale-green and white: as for her face, it expressed nothing but 'Dear me!' I never saw such
philosophy. Out rushed Tom, so did all the men of us, and followed the crowd up the street,
and down the lane to the front of Cloudesly's house, where we arrived just in time to see the
gallant Sommerset hand Lily from her chair with the air of a man about to kneel. Poor Cloudesly!
he was both weak and strong, but a good fellow at heart.

'She wore my colours, and suffered for my sake,' was all he said, as with Lily on his arm he
marched back with us to Miss Croply's drawing-room, followed by the crowd, shouting: 'Prior
and Cloudesly for ever!'

'Lily, dear, what's the meaning of this?' said old Mrs Prior.

'I thought I would take a look,' said Lily calmly; 'and they all got about me, saying I had
on Mr Cloudesly's colours, and'----

'So you did wear his colours,' cried Miss Croply; 'and I'm proud of you for keeping up your
principles! Mrs Prior, I always knew there was something great in that girl!'

'It's just the bonnet my aunt sent me,' said Lily; 'and I didn't mean'----

'Never mind what you meant,' cried Miss Croply, in whose mind policy as well as romance might
have been at work at that moment: 'we don't want no excuses.'

In short, Lily was made a heroine that evening. Her father and mother thought themselves called
upon to rebuke, but it was done rather in the encouraging style, especially when Mr Cloudesly
gave the company to understand that henceforth he was to be considered Lily's humble servant.
Isn't that the proper phrase, readers? And Miss Prior, who had not her composure to regain,
coloured slightly, and finished the matter by saying: 'Dear me!'

I have heard from herself, that she had put on her aunt's bonnet, and come quietly through
the lane, when it struck her that she would like to see what was going on, as Miss Croply would
allow no looking out at the low creatures; so nearer and nearer to the street did Lily wend,
till a boy--are not boys at the bottom of all mischief?--raised the shout that she was wearing
Mr Cloudesly's colours; the phalanx then surrounded her, and improvised the triumph which we
witnessed. The Tattleton Chronicle was remarkably full upon it. I think, till this day, Lily
is regarded as a devoted heroine by all the Tories of Tattleton, for there are Tories there
still. But we had a splendid wedding at our church, under Mr Stopford's very nose, before he
went to parliament. I can vouch for old Tom and Miss Croply leading off a country-dance the
same evening in Prior Cottage; but it is two-and-twenty years ago. There is a tombstone over
the old man and his wife. Miss Croply has left her bank deposit to three nieces. Sommerset
Cloudesly grew less fidgety long ago, and some people say less genteel, but he brews the best
beer, and makes the best cider now in the county. There are ten children in the brick-house,
but Mrs Cloudesly looks as composed as ever; and when her husband reads to her at work on the
winter nights, as he dutifully does, in the newspapers, she sometimes remarks, at the close
of long parliamentary debates, to which Sommerset was always partial: 'What trouble those people
have in that House of Commons, my love! Wasn't it really good for you that you lost the Tattleton
election?'

SAILORS' HOMES.

Our readers may probably have from time to time read allusions to 'Sailors' Homes,' without
precisely understanding the nature of these institutions. They are based on the fact that sailors,
as a class, are little better than children when ashore, and require to be providently cared
for, to save them from imposition and misery. The seaman when afloat is so thoroughly accustomed
to obey orders, and to be directed and instructed in everything, that he never thinks for himself,
and never acquires the least forethought or capability of guiding himself in any position apart
from the active duties of his profession; consequently, from time out of mind, he has been
especially doomed to be victimised on the land. No sooner has he been paid off after a voyage,
than he is--at least at all the great ports--beset with 'crimps,' 'runners,' and other land-sharks,
who entice him to low public-houses and lodging-houses, where he is plundered with such extraordinary
dispatch, that he frequently loses the results of many months of toil in a few days, or even
a few hours.

Of all men, seamen have pre-eminently a claim on public sympathy and protection; no class needs
the latter more, and, strange to say, no class has, until a comparatively recent period, received
it less. In the words of Thomas Clarkson: 'The grievances of mercantile seamen are a national
and crying evil;' and when we reflect on their importance, both as regards commerce and war,
it will be acknowledged that it is a national duty to do all that is possible to protect them
while ashore, and to ameliorate and improve their lot in every practical way. But this, like
many other national duties, has been left to the voluntary exertions of a few practical philanthropists.
In the words of Mr Sheriff Alison (now Sir A. Alison), when addressing a meeting at Glasgow,
with the view of founding a 'Home' there: 'The seamen are placed in very peculiar circumstances--their
virtues are exhibited at sea, and their vices are exhibited on shore. The community is benefited
by the former, and they, the sailors, are the victims of the latter. It is therefore more incumbent
on those who are enriched by their industry, and protected by their valour, to prevent their
falling into those vices to which unhappily so many of them are addicted. As had been so well
stated, they could do nothing to improve the character of the seaman without at the same time
benefiting all classes of the community.'

There is weighty truth in the last sentence. Undoubtedly, any and all improvements, whether
of the physical or moral condition of one class of the community, reacts on all. But especially
in the case of seamen, the result would be beneficial to the nation in an incalculable degree.
Raise the moral character of the sailor, by inducing in him reformed and provident habits,
and he will soon feel that he has a stake in the prosperity and security of his country; and
he will indeed repay all that has been done for him by his steady industry in peace, and by
his gallantry in war; for we think it is a great error to suppose, as some do, that a mere
reckless outcast will fight more bravely than a man who feels that he is a responsible and
respected citizen of a great nation, with his own proportionate interests involved in the results
of the conflict.

It is to protect the seaman from extortion and temptation while ashore, and to elevate him
in the social scale, that the excellent institutions called Sailors' Homes have been projected.
Their object is to insure a respectable and truly comfortable 'home' to seamen, at an exceedingly
moderate rate of payment; together with other advantages to be hereafter alluded to. An able
pamphlet on the subject, by Mr Montague Gore, has recently been published, and we are indebted
to him for the statistical information we are about to lay before the reader.

It appears that Captain Elliott, R.N., was the first who conceived the idea of founding Sailors'
Homes. This was in 1828. In 1833, one was established at Charleston, in South Carolina; but
the first in England was under the auspices of Mr Green, the great shipbuilder and ship-owner
of Blackwall, near London, and he originally designed it only for his own numerous seamen,
although by a recent regulation others are admitted. Captain Hall, R.N., deserves worthy mention
as one of the first promoters of Sailors' Homes, and he has for years indefatigably devoted
himself to their formation. He recently visited the chief ports in the kingdom, to observe
personally the condition of seamen ashore, and to advocate the establishment of Homes.

The first public Sailors' Home was that of Wells Street, London. It was opened in May 1835;
and Mr Gore informs us, that from that time up to December 31, 1851, no less than '54,026 seamen
were received into the institution, of which number 15,055 were old or returned boarders. Last
year the inmates amounted to 4633, and L.25,160 passed through the secretary's hand of money
left in his charge, L.2500 of which was deposited in the savings-bank. The building in Wells
Street is capable of holding 320 men, each of whom has a separate berth. The terms of admission
are 14s. per week for full-grown men; 12s. per week for lads; and 10s. 6d. per week for apprentices.
For this sum they are entitled to lodging [washing also], and four excellent meals daily; the
dietary is admirable.... The terms and regulations of Mr Green's establishment are nearly the
same as those in Wells Street. It is capable of holding 200 men; and here, too, are to be found
equally gratifying proofs of provident habits, instances having occurred of men having as much
as L.100 in the Poplar Bank.'

Good libraries are provided at these Sailors' Homes, and the morning-prayers of the Church
of England are duly read; but the attendance of the inmates is perfectly voluntary, and no
distinction of religious creed bars their admission. This is as it should be, and we have heard
the Wells Street Home spoken of in terms of praise and gratitude by seamen who have been boarders
there. Seamen of the best character thankfully flock to the Homes, and, consequently, captains
prefer to ship their crews from them. Mr Gore says, that in one year 112 ships were manned
from the Home in Wells Street.

The Portsmouth Home was opened in April 1851, and has been greatly supported and enlarged by
the munificent contributions of the sovereign and some of the nobility. It receives British
sailors at 13s. per week for men, and 10s. for boys and apprentices. Concerning it, Sir Edward
Parry, governor of Haslar Naval Hospital, says: 'The practice formerly prevalent with the crimps,
and other sharks, of besetting the gates of the Hospital, to waylay and beguile the invalids
on their discharge, is now almost at an end. This is, I believe, principally to be attributed
to our Portsmouth Sailors' Home, from which establishment a boat is generally sent every discharge-day,
to give the invalids the opportunity of going there without difficulty--the regulations of
the Home being posted up in various parts of the hospital. I am sure it is a comfort and a
blessing to all who go there.'

A Home was opened in Dublin in July 1848; and at Bristol, Plymouth, Cork, Dundee, &c., Homes
are in course of formation. A magnificent Sailors' Home has long been in course of establishment
at Liverpool; but it is not yet opened, although nearly finished. Influential meetings have
also been held at Aberdeen, Glasgow, Greenock, &c., to establish Homes at these several ports.
No one can conceive how absolutely necessary such institutions are but those who, like ourselves,
have seen the way in which seamen are robbed and led astray ashore. Mr Gore gives the public
a little insight into the case. 'I visited,' says he,' a short time ago, some of the houses
at Wapping and its neighbourhood, into which the sailors are decoyed. These houses are kept
by crimps, who waylay the unsuspecting sailors; they are by them conducted to these places,
where they find music and dancing going forward; they are induced to take up their abode there,
and are often plundered of every farthing they possess. In some houses, I saw several foreigners;
and in the days when burking was common, many of these unfortunates were made away with. In
Bristol, when a ship arrives, the sailors are surrounded by a set of miscreants, who are called
"runners," and are taken by them to houses of the lowest description.... Instances innumerable
might be stated of the horrible state of the dens to which seamen are obliged to resort for
want of more respectable residences; robberies are of frequent occurrence; and in one, I fear
not a solitary case, murder was committed.'

Our object in giving those extracts is, to shew the vital necessity for the formation of Homes
at all our leading ports. At Liverpool, for instance, the crimps are so active and speculative
in driving their abominable traffic, that no sooner do they hear of a man-of-war being paid
off at Portsmouth, or any other naval port, than they send their agents to entice the sailors
down to Liverpool. Let us quote one solitary example of the way in which Poor Jack is plundered.
'When Her Majesty's ship Raleigh was paid off at Portsmouth, many of the men were so plundered,
that they were obliged to apply to the magistrates for redress. It appears from the notes of
the evidence taken before them, that seven of these men were charged L.102 for three days'
entertainment at a low public-house, one item being L.6, 2s. for two hours' ride in an omnibus;
and a messmate, who came to breakfast with them, was compelled to pay 17s. 4d. for two eggs,
some salt beef, and a cup of coffee. It is gratifying to state, at the same time, that nineteen
men of this ship were received into the Sailors' Home, Wells Street, London, taking with them
L.222, besides their remittance-bills.'

We will make one more extract from Mr Gore's interesting brochure: 'Every seaport has a direct
interest in the improvement of the character of the seamen who frequent it, and whose example
must exercise considerable influence on the rest of the community. To the ship-owners, as well
as to their men, the Homes cannot fail of proving in the highest degree advantageous. Their
ships are now often manned by men upon whom, when at foreign ports, little or no dependence
can be placed. They care little about the ship in which they sail; they are heedless as to
what port they shall return; but the establishment of Homes will induce those who have experienced
their advantages, to be desirous of returning to them. It will render the seamen better men
and better citizens, and it will cause them to continue with their masters.' We cordially endorse
these opinions.

One great obstacle to the speedy formation of Sailors' Homes, seems to be the outlay necessary
in the shape of buildings, &c. On this point we offer, with deference, a suggestion of our
own. It is, that hulls of large old ships be bought and fitted up as floating-homes. Such establishments
would accommodate a large number of seamen in a very comfortable manner, and could be kept
up at an exceedingly moderate annual outlay for repairs. Surely the proprietors of the docks
in our large ports could, and would afford a convenient mooring-place at a merely nominal rent.

In conclusion, we may mention, that an establishment of a kindred nature to Sailors' Homes
is the 'Asylum for Distressed Seamen' in London. It is supported by voluntary contributions,
and receives destitute seamen of all nations. It lodges 100 inmates, and provides them with
two good meals daily. It were to be wished that similar asylums were established at every port
in the empire.

The philanthropist, Thomas Clarkson, shortly before his death, proposed that all public-houses
for seamen's lodgings should be licensed under strict special regulations. This, we think,
would be a step in the right direction; but there is nothing like a regular Sailors' Home.
Nevertheless, even in the large ports, licensed lodging-houses would be exceedingly useful
as auxiliaries to the Homes.

UNCLE TOM'S CABIN.

STORY OF ELIZA.

Uncle Tom's Cabin is the title of an American work, respecting which it is alleged that fifty
thousand copies, weighing fifty-five tons, were disposed of in the short period of eight weeks.
So high a degree of popularity could not rest on an insufficient foundation.[2] The book is
a species of novel or story, designed to portray in vivid colours negro-life in the slave states
of America; and such is the graphic and truth-like way in which the authoress, Harriet Beecher
Stowe, has strung the whole together, that the production has not only enlisted the sympathy
of the Abolitionists, but roused something like a sense of shame in the holders of slaves--hitherto
impervious to all remonstrance on the subject. A cheap London reprint of this somewhat interesting
book enables us to give a slight sketch of its character.

Uncle Tom is a middle-aged negro slave, on the farm of a Mr Shelby, in Kentucky; he has learned
to read, is pious and exemplary, and his hut is resorted to for edification by old and young
in the neighbourhood. Tom is married, has several children, and is highly trustworthy. Between
his family and that of his owner there is an agreeable intercourse, and to all appearance he
is likely to live and die on the estate; but his master falls into pecuniary difficulties;
becomes indebted to a wretch, Haley, a dealer in slaves from the south; and he is obliged to
part with so much live property to wipe out his obligations. It is arranged that Tom must go,
and along with him a young female slave, Eliza, almost white, who is married, and has hitherto
acted as lady's-maid to Mrs Shelby. Eliza's pretty boy, Harry, makes up the lot. The first
point of interest in the narrative turns on Eliza and her child; and we cannot do better than
allow the authoress to enter on the history of this unfortunate female slave and her husband.
It is said to be drawn from the life.

'Eliza had been brought up by her mistress from girlhood as a petted and indulged favourite.
She leaves the house stealthily at night, with her boy in her arms, hurries over fields, through
swamps and forests, and actually arrives at the Ohio without hinderance. Eliza caught a glimpse
of the trader, and, frantic with terror, rushed forth.

"You laugh!" said the trader with a growl. Missis wouldn't hear of our ridin' the critters
over Lizy's bridge to-night;" and he started off, followed by Andy, at full speed, their shouts
of laughter coming faintly on the wind.'

Having gone this length, we may as well conclude the episode of Eliza. It may be generally
known, that runaway slaves are in many instances favoured by the kindly aid of a denomination
unwearied in well-doing--the Society of Friends. By a family belonging to this respectable
body, Eliza, her child, and husband, were succoured and forwarded, under various disguises,
to the northern frontier of the States, on their way to Canada. For the final crisis, on the
shore of Lake Erie, Eliza was dressed in male attire, and seemed a handsome young man. Harry
figured as a little girl.

FOOTNOTES:

[2] We understand that Mrs H. B. Stowe has received from her publishers the sum of ten thousand
three hundred dollars, as her copyright premium on three months' sale of Uncle Tom's Cabin.-Boston
newspaper.

FORTUNES OF A LITERARY GOLD-SEEKER.

The same passion for gold-seeking, which in our day has developed itself in a new form, raged
in Europe from the depth of the middle ages till the eighteenth century was far advanced. By
the arrival of the latter period, however, a good deal of discredit had been thrown upon the
business; awkward revelations had been made; well-authenticated facts had been turned outside
in; and, in fine, the world's dread laugh helped not a little to put down the conviction of
ages. That conviction did not relate to the existence of natural hoards of the precious metal.
Such idle dreams were left to the fanciful and superstitious, whose stores were usually situated
in the bosom of mountains, and guarded by gnomes and demons. The others were more rational
and practical: they sought to obtain their end by means of legitimate science, based upon virtue
and religious faith. This basis is the only thing that since then has been unanimously abandoned;
for philosophers are still by no means agreed as to the impossibility of making gold.

Only a few of the gold-seekers of the present day are literary men, for the pickaxe does not
very naturally replace the pen; but at the time we speak of, almost the whole tribe were authors.
Borel, in 1654, makes the list amount to 4000; but this is an exaggeration; many of his names
being imaginary, and some cut into several pieces. We have before us, however, a catalogue
by a less zealous compiler, brought between eighty and ninety years further down, containing
about 2500 treatises by about 900 authors--a number which we consider not the least remarkable
of the facts connected with the hermetic science. All these works, with the exception of a
small number, are in Latin; and ten of them are the production of a certain Bernard Trevisanus,
to give him his learned name, although he was born at Padua in 1406. We do not, however, particularise
this author on account of the value of his books, for we are thankful to say we have never
seen his Secret Work of Chemistry, or his Philosophers' Egg, or, in fact, a single line he
has written;[3] but we look upon him in his personal character as the very ideal of a gold-seeker;
and we are on that account anxious to rescue his name from the obscurity in which it rests.

Bernard's attachment for his life-long profession was spontaneous, perhaps instinctive. He
had no need to apply himself to make the precious metals, for he was born with a piece of one
of them in his mouth--the piece which is technically called a silver spoon. He had the rank
of count; and his father, a doctor of medicine, leaving him a sufficient fortune, he had nothing
to do but to enjoy the world in any way he thought fit. We shall see how he managed. When only
fourteen years of age, he fell in with one of the works of the Arabian physician Rhasis, and
this led him, after four years' labour, to the fountain-head of the occult philosophy, Geber.
The latter, next to Hermes himself, is the acknowledged chief of the science, and Trevisan
found himself in good hands; although he wished he had made his acquaintance earlier, as he
had already spent to no purpose about 800 crowns. The reader must not suppose that the wealth
of adepts vanished in the common operations of chemistry; for in point of fact, the material
consumed was the material sought for--gold. Some, indeed, supposed that by subliming or purifying
the imperfect metals to a high enough degree, they might convert them into the perfect one;
but in general it was acknowledged that there was no way of making gold but by means of gold
itself. The philosopher's stone, as it was called, was a powder containing the pure essence
of gold, and how to obtain this was the question.

Trevisan was not without friends and advisers in the great search. Philosophers gathered about
him like bees; and by their assistance, together with the formulæ in the works of Geber, he
had soon spent 2000 crowns more. But he was not discouraged. He applied to the treatises of
Archelaus, Rufreissa, and Sacro-bosco; associated a monk with him in his experiments; and in
the course of three years had rectified spirits of wine more than thirty times, till it reached
a point at which no glass was strong enough to hold it. That was very well; but it cost more
than 300 crowns, and he was no nearer his object than before.

He now began to dissolve, congeal, and sublime common salt, sal-ammonia, the alums, and copperas;
and in distillation, circulation, and sublimation, he spent twelve busy years, at a cost of
about 6000 crowns. Trevisan almost lost faith in human science, and set himself earnestly to
pray for illumination. In this he was assisted by a magistrate of his own country; but while
invoking divine aid, they were all the while working away with marine salt. This substance
they continued to rectify for eight months without finding any change in its nature. It will
be seen, that the object of all these experiments was to find a solvent powerful enough to
separate the essence of gold from its material, the spirit from the body; but it now struck
him like a flash of lightning, that aqua fortis must be the thing; and throwing himself upon
this substance in its state of greatest intensity, he tried it first upon silver, then upon
common mercury--but all in vain.

However, our Bernard was still in the flower of his age--he was only forty-six: nothing for
a philosopher. He began to travel, with the view of collecting wisdom in his way; and at length
fell in with Maître Geoffrey Leuvrier, a Cistercian monk, a man after his own heart. These
congenial companions set to work at first upon hens' eggs, calcining even the shells; till
at the end of eight laborious years, devoted to these and other substances, they had acquired
the skill of at least preparing in an artistic manner the furnaces used in their operations.
After this, he attached himself to another theological friend, who was prothonotary of Berghes,
in Flanders; and with him he worked during fourteen months in distilling copperas with vinegar.
But the result of the experiments was nothing better than a quartan-ague.

When Bernard began to get better, the interesting intelligence came to his ears, that Maître
Henry, confessor of the Emperor Ferdinand III., possessed the secret of the philosopher's stone.
Our adept, therefore, set out at once for Germany, and by means of the good offices of friends,
and the liberal expenditure of money, obtained an introduction to the fortunate man. With him
he set to work with a good heart; but after rectifying and dissolving till they were tired,
he found that he had only succeeded in melting away 300 crowns more of his wealth. The thing
grew serious. He was now fifty-eight. He could afford to dally no longer: it was necessary
to find the secret of the hermetic science at once, or give up the search. Trevisan pondered
over his critical position for two entire months; but at the end of that time a ray of hope
flashed across the gloom of his meditations. The nature of the hope we do not know; we can
only tell what was the course of action on which it determined him. He arose suddenly from
his depression, and, girding up his loins, began to travel. He went first to Rome; then to
Spain; then to Turkey; then to Greece. He passed into Egypt; then into Barbary; then visited
Rhodes; and then traversed a portion of Palestine and Persia. He then returned to France, by
way of Messina, and visited England, Scotland, and finally Germany. Wherever he went, it was
the same thing. The phantom he followed fled as he pursued; and alike in the heart of London,
and in the deserts of the Holy Land, he saw appearing, and then vanishing, in the distance--

     The unreached paradise of his despair.

That the secret existed, there could be no doubt; for it was a part of Trevisan's creed that
it was born before the Flood; that it was revealed to the Israelites in their passage through
the Desert; and that it had thus been handed down through the various generations of men. In
his own travels, there was no want of true philosophers here, there, and everywhere. But they
were alone; they kept their science to themselves; and they fixed upon the inquirer a stony
gaze, which petrified his heart. Pretenders, on the contrary, were as open as day--there was
no end to their civilities: but their favours were expensive; they cost altogether, including
his travelling expenses, about 13,000 crowns; and he was at length obliged to sell an estate
which had produced him the agreeable little revenue of 8000 German florins.

Bernard was now sixty-two years of age, within a year of his grand climacteric. He had succeeded
in divesting himself by degrees of all his property, with the exception of what afforded him
a very bare subsistence; and his relatives, incensed at a conduct which their ignorance of
science prevented them from appreciating, had turned their backs upon him. Poor, friendless,
and alone, he had hatched his Philosophers' Egg to some purpose; and now what was he to do?
He must, in the first place, find some cheap retirement, where he could at least live; and
accordingly he set out for a place he had visited in his travels--the island of Rhodes. Why
he should have chosen the island of Rhodes more than any other island, or an island more than
any part of the mainland, it would be difficult to tell. But Bernard speedily saw that he had
been conducted thither by the hand of destiny; for in his solitary wanderings he encountered
a monk whom he at once recognised as a kindred spirit. It would be too long to tell how they
fell into talk about the Companions of Cadmus, the Doves of Diana, the Dragon, the Serpent,
and the Nymphs; of the Male, the Female, and the Hermaphrodite; of the Hermetic Sulphur which
exists in gold, and of the means of coagulating with this sulphur the sacred Mercury. Suffice
it to say, that their conversation excited in them an intense desire to experiment, and an
absolute conviction that the collision of two such intellects would strike out the sublime
spark of truth. But how to manage? Gold could not be made without the aid of gold; and they
had not a piece between them. But here the lucky stars of our philosopher interposed. Bernard
fell in with a merchant to whom his family was known, and his adventures unknown; and the good
man had the kindness to lend him 8000 florins. This was a trifling debt to incur at a time
when he stood on the very brink of the Secret; and the two friends set to work with a will.
They occupied themselves for three years in dissolving gold and silver; and then discovered
that their fund was exhausted, and that nothing remained to them of all their labours but the
embers of the fire.

Trevisan applied to philosophy for consolation: he set himself to read attentively Arnold of
Villenova. This 'great theologian, skilful physician, and learned alchemist,' as we are assured
by Andreas, a celebrated lawyer of his day, was in the habit of making gold at pleasure; but
not satisfied with this triumph, he would needs interfere in the concerns of religion, and
more especially scandalised the whole orthodox world by affirming, 'that the works of charity
and medicine are more agreeable to God than the services of the altar.' He was likewise the
master in the sublime science of the famous Raymond Lully, who, as is well known to English
history (although the fact is omitted by the historians), converted in one operation 50,000
lbs. weight of mercury, lead, and tin, into pure gold, which was coined into rose nobles. Raymond,
like his master, was a great theologian, and the grand aspiration of his life, to which he
finally fell a martyr, was the conversion of the infidels. In reading him, also--for Bernard
was led naturally from one to the other--he was greatly struck with that blending of religion
with science which is observable in almost all the Hermetic books, where the practical part
of Christianity, the love of God and man, is inculcated as the fundamental maxim. On this he
pondered for eight years, by which time he had attained the ripe age of seventy-three, and
then at length the mind of the adept opened to the Secret he had been so long and so blindly
pursuing.

His Search was successful. He was now able to separate the pure spirit from the material gold
that had all his life been harmonising and fusing, and while reading the books of the alchemists,
to collect their truths, and pass over their errors as dross. It was two years before he had
fairly accustomed his mind to this view of the subject; but his life was prolonged for five
years more, during which time, notwithstanding his poverty and solitude, he probably enjoyed
the only real happiness he had ever known. He reached the age of eighty-four, and, in the year
1490, gave up his last breath with a smile. If a bystander had inquired at the moment he was
passing away, what it was which gave this illumination to his countenance, and this tranquillity
to his heart, he would doubtless have answered, the philosopher's stone.

After his death, he obtained the reputation he had missed when living. His works were widely
circulated, and some of them printed so late as 1672. They were reckoned an important help
to the student of hermetic science; and the name of the luckless Bernard Trevisan was always
included in the list of great adepts.

FOOTNOTES:

[3] The French author of the catalogue we allude to (1742) while declaring that it is good
for people to know what the books are, counsels them to read very little of them, and to do
nothing at all that they recommend.

LACON'S BOAT-LOWERING APPARATUS.

