She jumped up, unrolled herself, and began to fold the rug neatly. Stephen would have taken
it from her and bundled it together anyhow, but she would not let him do that. "I like folded
things," she said. "It's nice to see them come straight, and I enjoy it more because the wind
doesn't want me to do it. To succeed in spite of something, is a kind of little triumph--and
seems like a sign. Good-bye, and thank you once more."

"Good-bye," said Stephen, and added to himself that he would not soon again see so pretty a
child; as fresh, as frank, or as innocent. He had known several delightful American girls,
but never one like this. She was a new type to him, and more interesting, perhaps, because
she was simple, and even provincial. He was in a state of mind to glorify women who were entirely
unsophisticated.

He did not see the girl getting into the train at Calais, though he looked for her, feeling
some curiosity as to the stepmother and the sister whom he had imagined prostrate in the ladies'
cabin. By the time he had arrived at Paris he felt sleepy and dull after an aggravating doze
or two on the way, and had almost forgotten the red-haired child with the vivid blue eyes,
until, to his astonishment, he saw her alone parleying with a douanier, over two great boxes,
for one of which there seemed to be no key.

"Those selfish people of hers have left her to do all the work," he said to himself indignantly,
and as she appeared to be having some difficulty with the official, he went to ask if he could
help.

"Thank you, it's all right now," she said. "The key of my biggest box is mislaid, but luckily
I've got the man to believe me when I say there's nothing in it except clothes, just the same
as in the other. Still it would be very, very kind if you wouldn't mind seeing me to a cab.
That is, if it's no bother."

Stephen assured her that he would be delighted.

"Have your people engaged the cab already," he wanted to know, "or are they waiting in this
room for you?"

"I haven't any people," she answered. "I'm all by myself."

This was another surprise, and it was as much as Stephen could do not to blame her family audibly
for allowing the child to travel alone, at night too. The thing seemed monstrous.

He took her into the court-yard, where the cabs stood, and engaged two, one for the girl, and
one for her large luggage.

"You have rooms already taken at an hotel, I hope?" he asked.

"I'm going to a boarding-house--a pension, I mean," explained the girl. "But it's all right.
They know I'm coming. I do thank you for everything."

Seated in the cab, she held out her hand in a glove which had been cleaned, and showed mended
fingers. Stephen shook the small hand gravely, and for the second time they bade each other
good-bye.

In the cold grey light of a rainy dawn, which would have suited few women as a background,
especially after a night journey, the girl's face looked pearly, and Stephen saw that her lashes,
darker at the roots, were bright golden at the turned-up ends.

It seemed to him that this pretty child, alone in the greyness and rain of the big foreign
city, was like a spring flower thrown carelessly into a river to float with the stream. He
felt an impulse of protection, and it went against his instincts to let her drive about Paris
unprotected, while night had hardly yielded to morning. But he could not offer to go with her.
He was interested, as any man of flesh and blood must be interested, in the fate of an innocent
and charming girl left to take care of herself, and entirely unfitted for the task; yet she
seemed happy and self-confident, and he had no right, even if he wished, to disturb her mind.
He was going away without another word after the good-bye, but on second thoughts felt that
he might ask if she had friends in Paris.

"Not exactly friends, but people who will look after me, and be kind, I'm sure," she answered.
"Thank you for taking an interest. Will you tell the man to go to 278A Rue Washington, and
the other cab to follow?"

Stephen obeyed, and as she drove away the girl looked back, smiling at him her sweet and childlike
smile.

III

Stephen had meant to stop only one day in Paris, and travel at night to Marseilles, where he
would have twelve or fifteen hours to wait before the sailing of the ship on which he had engaged
a cabin. But glancing over a French paper while he breakfasted at the Westminster, he saw that
a slight accident had happened to the boat during a storm on her return voyage from Algiers,
and that she would be delayed three days for repairs. This news made Stephen decide to remain
in Paris for those days, rather than go on and wait at Marseilles, or take another ship. He
did not want to see any one he knew, but he thought it would be pleasant to spend some hours
picture-gazing at the Louvre, and doing a few other things which one ought to do in Paris,
and seldom does.

That night he went to bed early and slept better than he had slept for weeks. The next day
he almost enjoyed, and when evening came, felt desultory, even light-hearted.

Dining at his hotel, he overheard the people at the next table say they were going to the Folies
Bergères to see Victoria Ray dance, and suddenly Stephen made up his mind that he would go
there too: for if life had been running its usual course with him, he would certainly have
gone to see Victoria Ray in London. She had danced lately at the Palace Theatre for a month
or six weeks, and absorbed as he had been in his own affairs, he had heard enough talk about
this new dancer to know that she had made what is called a "sensation."

The people at the next table were telling each other that Victoria Ray's Paris engagement was
only for three nights, something special, with huge pay, and that there was a "regular scramble"
for seats, as the girl had been such a success in New York and London. The speakers, who were
English and provincial, had already taken places, but there did not appear to be much hope
that Stephen could get anything at the last minute. The little spice of difficulty gave a fillip
of interest, however; and he remembered how the charming child on the boat had said that she
"liked doing difficult things." He wondered what she was doing now; and as he thought of her,
white and ethereal in the night and in the dawn-light, she seemed to him like the foam-flowers
that had blossomed for an instant on the crests of dark waves, through which their vessel forged.
"For a moment white, then gone forever." The words glittered in his mind, and fascinated him,
calling up the image of the girl, pale against the night and rainy sea. "For a moment white,
then gone forever," he repeated, and asked himself whence came the line. From Burns, he fancied;
and thought it quaintly appropriate to the fair child whose clear whiteness had thrown a gleam
into his life before she vanished.

All the seats for this second night of Victoria Ray's short engagement were sold at the Folies
Bergères, he found, from the dearest to the cheapest: but there was standing room still when
Stephen arrived, and he squeezed himself in among a group of light-hearted, long-haired students
from the Latin Quarter. He had an hour to wait before Victoria Ray would dance, but there was
some clever conjuring to be seen, a famous singer of chansons to be heard, and other performances
which made the time pass well enough. Then, at last, it was the new dancer's "turn."

The curtain remained down for several minutes, as some scenic preparation was necessary before
her first dance. Gay French music was playing, and people chattered through it, or laughed
in high Parisian voices. A blue haze of smoke hung suspended like a thin veil, and the air
was close, scented with tobacco and perfume. Stephen looked at his programme, beginning to
feel bored. His elbows were pressed against his sides by the crowd. Miss Ray was down for two
dances, the Dance of the Statue and the Dance of the Shadow. The atmosphere of the place depressed
him. He doubted after all, that he would care for the dancing. But as he began to wish he had
not come the curtain went up, to show the studio of a sculptor, empty save for the artist's
marble masterpieces. Through a large skylight, and a high window at the back of the stage,
a red glow of sunset streamed into the bare room. In the shadowy corners marble forms were
grouped, but in the centre, directly under the full flood of rose-coloured light, the just
finished statue of a girl stood on a raised platform. She was looking up, and held a cup in
one lifted hand, as if to catch the red wine of sunset. Her draperies, confined by a Greek
ceinture under the young bust, fell from shoulder to foot in long clear lines that seemed cut
in gleaming stone. The illusion was perfect. Even in that ruddy blaze the delicate, draped
form appeared to be of carved marble. It was almost impossible to believe it that of a living
woman, and its grace of outline and pose was so perfect that Stephen, in his love of beauty,
dreaded the first movement which must change, if not break, the tableau. He said to himself
that there was some faint resemblance between this chiselled loveliness and the vivid charm
of the pretty child he had met on the boat. He could imagine that a statue for which she had
stood as model might look like this, though the features seemed to his eye more regular than
those of the girl.

As he gazed, the music, which had been rich and colourful, fell into softer notes; and the
rose-sunset faded to an opal twilight, purple to blue, blue to the silver of moonlight, the
music changing as the light changed, until at last it was low and slumberous as the drip-drip
of a plashing fountain. Then, into the dream of the music broke a sound like the distant striking
of a clock. It was midnight, and all the statues in the sculptor's bare, white studio began
to wake at the magic stroke which granted them a few hours of life.

There was just a shimmer of movement in the dim corners. Marble limbs stirred, marble face
turned slowly to gaze at marble face; yet, as if they could be only half awakened in the shadows
where the life-giving draught of moonlight might not flow, there was but the faintest flicker
of white forms and draperies. It was the just finished statue of the girl which felt the full
thrill of moonshine and midnight. She woke rapturously, and drained the silver moon-wine in
her cup (the music told the story of her first thought and living heart-beat): then down she
stepped from the platform where the sculptor's tools still lay, and began to dance for the
other statues who watched in the dusk, hushed back into stillness under the new spell of her
enchantments.

Stephen had never seen anything like that dance. Many pretty premières danseuses he had admired
and applauded, charming and clever young women of France, of Russia, of Italy, and Spain: and
they had roused him and all London to enthusiasm over dances eccentric, original, exquisite,
or wild. But never had there been anything like this. Stephen had not known that a dance could
move him as this did. He was roused, even thrilled by its poetry, and the perfect beauty of
its poses, its poises. It must, he supposed, have been practised patiently, perhaps for years,
yet it produced the effect of being entirely unstudied. At all events, there was nothing in
the ordinary sense "professional" about it. One would say--not knowing the supreme art of supreme
grace--that a joyous child, born to the heritage of natural grace, might dance thus by sheer
inspiration, in ecstasy of life and worship of the newly felt beauty of earth. Stephen did
know something of art, and the need of devotion to its study; yet he found it hard to realize
that this awakened marble loveliness had gone through the same performance week after week,
month after month, in America and England. He preferred rather to let himself fancy that he
was dreaming the whole thing; and he would gladly have dreamed on indefinitely, forgetting
the smoky atmosphere, forgetting the long-haired students and all the incongruous surroundings.
The gracious dream gave him peace and pleasure such as he had not known since the beginning
of the Northmorland case.

Through the house there was a hush, unusual at the Folies Bergères. People hardly knew what
to make of the dances, so different from any ever seen in a theatre of Paris. Stephen was not
alone in feeling the curious dream-spell woven by music and perfection of beauty. But the light
changed. The moonlight slowly faded. Dancer and music faltered, in the falling of the dark
hour before dawn. The charm was waning. Soft notes died, and quavered in apprehension. The
magic charm of the moon was breaking, had broken: a crash of cymbals and the studio was dark.
Then light began to glimmer once more, but it was the chill light of dawn, and growing from
purple to blue, from blue to rosy day, it showed the marble statues fast locked in marble sleep
again. On the platform stood the girl with uplifted arm, holding her cup, now, to catch the
wine of sunrise; and on the delicately chiselled face was a faint smile which seemed to hide
a secret. When the first ray of yellow sunshine gilded the big skylight, a door up-stage opened
and the sculptor came in, wearing his workman's blouse. He regarded his handiwork, as the curtain
came down.

When the music of the dream had ceased and suddenly became ostentatiously puerile, the audience
broke into a tumult of applause. Women clapped their hands furiously and many men shouted "brava,
brava," hoping that the curtain might rise once more on the picture; but it did not rise, and
Stephen was glad. The dream would have been vulgarized by repetition.

For fully five minutes the orchestra played some gay tune which every one there had heard a
hundred times; but abruptly it stopped, as if on a signal. For an instant there was a silence
of waiting and suspense, which roused interest and piqued curiosity. Then there began a delicate
symphony which could mean nothing but spring in a forest, and on that the curtain went up.
The prophecy of the music was fulfilled, for the scene was a woodland in April, with young
leaves a-flicker and blossoms in birth, the light song of the flutes and violins being the
song of birds in love. All the trees were brocaded with dainty, gold-green lace, and daffodils
sprouted from the moss at their feet.

The birds sang more gaily, and out from behind a silver-trunked beech tree danced a figure
in spring green. Her arms were full of flowers, which she scattered as she danced, curtseying,
mocking, beckoning the shadow that followed her along the daisied grass. Her little feet were
bare, and flitted through the green folding of her draperies like white night-moths fluttering
among rose leaves. Her hair fell over her shoulders, and curled below her waist. It was red
hair that glittered and waved, and she looked a radiant child of sixteen. Victoria Ray the
dancer, and the girl on the Channel boat were one.

IV

The Shadow Dance was even more beautiful than the Dance of the Statue, but Stephen had lost
pleasure in it. He was supersensitive in these days, and he felt as if the girl had deliberately
made game of him, in order that he should make a fool of himself. Of course it was a pose of
hers to travel without chaperon or maid, and dress like a school girl from a provincial town,
in cheap serge, a sailor hat, and a plait of hair looped up with ribbon. She was no doubt five
or six years older than she looked or admitted, and probably her manager shrewdly prescribed
the "line" she had taken up. Young women on the stage--actresses, dancers, or singers, it didn't
matter which--must do something unusual, in order to be talked about, and get a good free advertisement.
Nowadays, when professionals vied with each other in the expensiveness of their jewels, the
size of their hats, or the smallness of their waists, and the eccentricity of their costumes,
it was perhaps rather a new note to wear no jewels at all, and appear in ready-made frocks
bought in bargain-sales; while, as for the young woman's air of childlike innocence and inexperience,
it might be a tribute to her cleverness as an actress, but it was not a tribute to his intelligence
as a man, that he should have been taken in by it. Always, he told himself, he was being taken
in by some woman. After the lesson he had had, he ought to have learned wisdom, but it seemed
that he was as gullible as ever. And it was this romantic folly of his which vexed him now;
not the fact that a simple child over whose fate he had sentimentalized, was a rich and popular
stage-dancer. Miss Ray was probably a good enough young woman according to her lights, and
it was not she who need be shamed by the success of the Channel boat comedy.

He had another day and night in Paris, where he did more sightseeing than he had ever accomplished
before in a dozen visits, and then travelled on to Marseilles. The slight damage to the Charles
Quex had been repaired, and at noon the ship was to sail. Stephen went on board early, as he
could think of nothing else which he preferred to do, and he was repaid for his promptness.
By the time he had seen his luggage deposited in the cabin he had secured for himself alone,
engaged a deck chair, and taken a look over the ship--which was new, and as handsome as much
oak, fragrant cedar-wood, gilding, and green brocade could make her--many other passengers
were coming on board. Travelling first class were several slim French officers, and stout Frenchmen
of the commercial class; a merry theatrical company going to act in Algiers and Tunis; an English
clergyman of grave aspect; invalids with their nurses, and two or three dignified Arabs, evidently
of good birth as well as fortune. Arab merchants were returning from the Riviera, and a party
of German students were going second class.

Stephen was interested in the lively scene of embarkation, and glad to be a part of it, though
still more glad that there seemed to be nobody on board whom he had ever met. He admired the
harbour, and the shipping, and felt pleasantly exhilarated. "I feel very young, or very old,
I'm not sure which," he said to himself as a faint thrill ran through his nerves at the grinding
groan of the anchor, slowly hauled out of the deep green water.

It was as if he heard the creaking of a gate which opened into an unknown garden, a garden
where life would be new and changed. Nevill Caird had once said that there was no sharp, dividing
line between phases of existence, except one's own moods, and Stephen had thought this true;
but now it seemed as if the sea which silvered the distance was the dividing line for him,
while all that lay beyond the horizon was mysterious as a desert mirage.

He was not conscious of any joy at starting, yet he was excited, as if something tremendous
were about to happen to him. England, that he knew so well, seemed suddenly less real than
Africa, which he knew not at all, and his senses were keenly alert for the first time in many
days. He saw Marseilles from a new point of view, and wondered why he had never read anything
fine written in praise of the ancient Phoenician city. Though he had not been in the East,
he imagined that the old part of the town, seen from the sea, looked Eastern, as if the traffic
between east and west, going on for thousands of years, had imported an Eastern taste in architecture.

The huge, mosque-like cathedral bubbled with domes, where fierce gleams of gold were hammered
out by strokes of the noonday sun. A background of wild mountain ranges, whose tortured peaks
shone opaline through long rents in mist veils, lent an air of romance to the scene, and Notre
Dame de la Garde loomed nobly on her bleached and arid height. "Have no fear: I keep watch
and ward over land and sea," seemed to say the majestic figure of gold on the tall tower, and
Stephen half wished he were of the Catholic faith, that he might take comfort from the assurance.

As the Charles Quex steamed farther and farther away, the church on the mountainous hill appeared
to change in shape. Notre Dame de la Garde looked no longer like a building made by man, but
like a great sacred swan crowned with gold, and nested on a mountain-top. There she sat, with
shining head erect on a long neck, seated on her nest, protecting her young, and gazing far
across the sea in search of danger. The sun touched her golden crown, and dusky cloud-shadows
grouped far beneath her eyrie, like mourners kneeling below the height to pray. The rock-shapes
and island rocks that cut the blue glitter of the sea, suggested splendid tales of Phoenician
mariners and Saracenic pirates, tales lost forever in the dim mists of time; and so Stephen
wandered on to thoughts of Dumas, wishing he had brought "Monte Cristo," dearly loved when
he was twelve. Probably not a soul on board had the book; people were so stupid and prosaic
nowadays. He turned from the rail on which he had leaned to watch the fading land, and as he
did so, his eyes fell upon a bright red copy of the book for which he had been wishing. There
was the name in large gold lettering on a scarlet cover, very conspicuous on the dark blue
serge lap of a girl. It was the girl of the Channel boat, and she wore the same dress, the
same sailor hat tied on with a blue veil, which she had worn that night crossing from England
to France.

While Stephen had been absorbed in admiration of Marseilles harbour, she had come up on deck,
and settled herself in a canvas chair. This time she had a rug of her own, a thin navy blue
rug which, like her frock, might have been chosen for its cheapness. Although she held a volume
of "Monte Cristo," she was not reading, and as Stephen turned towards her, their eyes met.

Hers lit up with a pleased smile, and the pink that sprang to her cheeks was the colour of
surprise, not of self-consciousness.

"I thought your back looked like you, but I didn't suppose it would turn out to be you," she said.

Stephen's slight, unreasonable irritation could not stand against the azure of such eyes, and
the youth in her friendly smile. Since the girl seemed glad to see him, why shouldn't he be
glad to see her? At least she was not a link with England.

"I thought your statue looked like you," he retorted, standing near her chair, "but I didn't
suppose it would turn out to be you until your shadow followed."

"Oh, you saw me dance! Did you like it?" She asked the question eagerly, like a child who hangs
upon grown-up judgment of its work.

"I thought both dances extremely beautiful and artistic," replied Stephen, a little stiffly.

She looked at him questioningly, as if puzzled. "No, I don't think you did like them, really,"
she said. "I oughtn't to have asked in that blunt way, because of course you would hate to
hurt my feelings by saying no!"

Her manner was so unlike that of a spoiled stage darling, that Stephen had to remind himself
sharply of her "innocent pose," and his own soft-hearted lack of discrimination where pretty
women were concerned. By doing this he kept himself armed against the clever little actress
laughing at him behind the blue eyes of a child. "You must know that there can't be two opinions
of your dancing," said he coolly. "You have had years and years of flattery, of course; enough
to make you sick of it, if a woman ever----" He stopped, smiling.

"Why, I've been dancing professionally for only a few months!" she exclaimed. "Didn't you know?"

"I'm ashamed to say I was ignorant," Stephen confessed. "But before the dancing, there must
have been something else equally clever. Floating--or flying--or----"

She laughed. "Why don't you suggest fainting in coils? I'm certain you would, if you'd ever
read 'Alice.'"

"As a matter of fact, I was brought up on 'Alice,'" said Stephen. "Do children of the present
day still go down the rabbit hole?"

"I'm not sure about children of the present day. Children of my day went down," she replied
with dignity. "I loved Alice dearly. I don't know much about other children, though, for I
never had a chance to make friends as a child. But then I had my sister when I was a little
girl, so nothing else mattered."

"If you don't think me rude to say so," ventured Stephen, "you would seem to me a little girl
now, if I hadn't found out that you're an accomplished star of the theatres, admired all over
Europe."

"Now you're making fun of me," said the dancer. "Paris was only my third engagement; and it's
going to be my last, anyway for ever so long, I hope."

This time Stephen was really surprised, and all his early interest in the young creature woke
again; the personal sort of interest which he had partly lost on finding that she was of the
theatrical world.

"Oh, I see!" he ejaculated, before stopping to reflect that he had no right to put into words
the idea which jumped into his mind.

"You see?" she echoed. "But how can you see, unless you know something about me already?"

"I beg your pardon," he apologized. "It was only a thought. I----"

"A thought about my dancing?"

"Not exactly that. About your not dancing again."

"Then please tell me the thought."

"You may be angry. I rather think you'd have a right to be angry--not at the thought, but the
telling of it."

"I promise."

"Why," explained Stephen, "when a young and successful actress makes up her mind to leave the
stage, what is the usual reason?"

"I'm not an actress, so I can't imagine what you mean--unless you suppose I've made a great
fortune in a few months?"

"That too, perhaps--but I don't think a fortune would induce you to leave the stage yet a while.
You'd want to go on, not for the money perhaps, but for the fun."

"I haven't been dancing for fun."

"Haven't you?"

"No. I began with a purpose. I'm leaving the stage for a purpose. And you say you can guess
what that is. If you know, you must have been told."

"Since you insist, it occurred to me that you might be going to marry. I thought maybe you
were travelling to Africa to----"

She laughed. "Oh, you are wrong! I don't believe there ever was a girl who thinks less about
marrying. I've never had time to think of such things. I've always--ever since I was nine years
old--looked to the one goal, and aimed for it, studied for it, lived for it--at last, danced
towards it."

"You excite my curiosity immensely," said Stephen. And it was true. The girl had begun to take
him out of himself.

"There is lunch," she announced, as a bugle sounded.

Stephen longed to say, "Don't go yet. Stop and tell me all about the 'goal' you're working
for." But he dared not. She was very frank, and evidently willing, for some reason, to talk
of her aims, even to a comparative stranger; yet he knew that it would be impertinent to suggest
her sitting out on deck to chat with him, while the other passengers lunched.

He asked if she were hungry, and she said she was. So was he, now that he came to think of
it; nevertheless he let her go in alone, and waited deliberately for several minutes before
following. He would have liked to sit by Miss Ray at the table, but wished her to see that
he did not mean to presume upon any small right of acquaintanceship. As she was on the stage,
and extremely attractive, no doubt men often tried to take such advantage, and he didn't intend
to be one of them; therefore he supposed that he had lost the chance of placing himself near
her in the dining-room. To his surprise, however, as he was about to slip into a far-away chair,
she beckoned from her table. "I kept this seat for you," she said. "I hoped you wouldn't mind."

"Mind!" He was on the point of repaying her kindness with a conventional little compliment,
but thought better of it, and expressed his meaning in a smile.

The oak-panelled saloon was provided with a number of small tables, and at the one where Victoria
Ray sat, were places for four. Three were already occupied when Stephen came; one by Victoria,
the others by a German bride and groom.

At the next table were two French officers of the Chasseurs d'Afrique, the English clergyman
Stephen had noticed on deck, and a remarkably handsome Arab, elaborately dressed. He sat facing
Victoria Ray and Stephen Knight, and Stephen found it difficult not to stare at the superb,
pale brown person whose very high white turban, bound with light grey cord, gave him a dignity
beyond his years, and whose pale grey burnous, over a gold-embroidered vest of dark rose-colour,
added picturesqueness which appeared theatrical in eyes unaccustomed to the East.

Stephen had never seen an Arab of the aristocratic class until to-day; and before, only a few
such specimens as parade the Galerie Charles Trois at Monte Carlo, selling prayer-rugs and
draperies from Algeria. This man's high birth and breeding were clear at first glance. He was
certainly a personage aware of his own attractions, though not offensively self-conscious,
and was unmistakably interested in the beauty of the girl at the next table. He was too well-bred
to make a show of his admiration, but talked in almost perfect, slightly guttural French, with
the English clergyman, speaking occasionally also to the officers in answer to some question.
He glanced seldom at Miss Ray, but when he did look across, in a guarded way, at her, there
was a light of ardent pleasure in his eyes, such as no eyes save those of East or South ever
betray. The look was respectful, despite its underlying passion. Nevertheless, because the
handsome face was some shades darker than his own, it offended Stephen, who felt a sharp bite
of dislike for the Arab. He was glad the man was not at the same table with Miss Ray, and knew
that it would have vexed him intensely to see the girl drawn into conversation. He wondered
that the French officers should talk with the Arab as with an equal, yet knew in his heart
that such prejudice was narrow-minded, especially at the moment when he was travelling to the
Arab's own country. He tried, though not very strenuously, to override his conviction of superiority
to the Eastern man, but triumphed only far enough to admit that the fellow was handsome in
a way. His skin was hardly darker than old ivory: the aquiline nose delicate as a woman's,
with sensitive nostrils; and the black velvet eyes under arched brows, that met in a thin,
pencilled line, were long, and either dreamy or calmly calculating. A prominent chin and a
full mouth, so determined as to suggest cruelty, certainly selfishness, preserved the face
from effeminacy at the sacrifice of artistic perfection. Stephen noticed with mingled curiosity
and disapproval that the Arab appeared to be vain of his hands, on which he wore two or three
rings that might have been bought in Paris, or even given him by European women--for they looked
like a woman's rings. The brown fingers were slender, tapering to the ends, and their reddened
nails glittered. They played, as the man talked, with a piece of bread, and often he glanced
down at them, with the long eyes which had a blue shadow underneath, like a faint smear of kohl.

Stephen wondered what Victoria Ray thought of her vis-à-vis; but in the presence of the staring
bride and groom he could ask no questions, and the expression of her face, as once she quietly
regarded the Arab, told nothing. It was even puzzling, as an expression for a young girl's
face to wear in looking at a handsome man so supremely conscious of sex and of his own attraction.
She was evidently thinking about him with considerable interest, and it annoyed Stephen that
she should look at him at all. An Arab might misunderstand, not realizing that he was a legitimate
object of curiosity for eyes unused to Eastern men.

After luncheon Victoria went to her cabin. This was disappointing. Stephen, hoping that she
might come on deck again soon, and resume their talk where it had broken off in the morning,
paced up and down until he felt drowsy, not having slept in the train the night before. To
his surprise and disgust, it was after five when he waked from a long nap, in his stateroom;
and going on deck he found Miss Ray in her chair once more, this time apparently deep in "Monte
Cristo."

V

He walked past, and she looked up with a smile, but did not ask him to draw his chair near
hers, though there was a vacant space. It was an absurd and far-fetched idea, but he could
not help asking himself if it were possible that she had picked up any acquaintance on board,
who had told her he was a marked man, a foolish fellow who had spoiled his life for a low-born,
unscrupulous woman's sake. It was a morbid fancy, he knew, but he was morbid now, and supposed
that he should be for some time to come, if not for the rest of his life. He imagined a difference
in the girl's manner. Maybe she had read that hateful interview in some paper, when she was
in London, and now remembered having seen his photograph with Margot Lorenzi's. He hated the
thought, not because he deliberately wished to keep his engagement secret, but because the
newspaper interview had made him seem a fool, and somehow he did not want to be despised by
this dancing girl whom he should never see again after to-morrow. Just why her opinion of his
character need matter to him, it was difficult to say, but there was something extraordinary
about the girl. She did not seem in the least like other dancers he had met. He had not that
feeling of comfortable comradeship with her that a man may feel with most unchaperoned, travelling
actresses, no matter how respectable. There was a sense of aloofness, as if she had been a
young princess, in spite of her simple and friendly ways.

Since it appeared that she had no intention of picking up the dropped threads of their conversation,
Stephen thought of the smoking-room; but his wish to know whether she really had changed towards
him became so pressing that he was impelled to speak again. It was an impulse unlike himself,
at any rate the old self with which he was familiar, as with a friend or an intimate enemy.

"I hoped you would tell me the rest," he blurted out.

"The rest?"

"That you were beginning to tell."

The girl blushed. "I was afraid afterwards, you might have been bored, or anyway surprised.
You probably thought it 'very American' of me to talk about my own affairs to a stranger, and
it isn't, you know. I shouldn't like you to think Americans are less well brought up than other
girls, just because I may do things that seem queer. I have to do them. And I am quite different
from others. You mustn't suppose I'm not."

Stephen was curiously relieved. Suddenly he felt young and happy, as he used to feel before
knowing Margot Lorenzi. "I never met a brilliantly successful person who was as modest as you,"
he said, laughing with pleasure. "I was never less bored in my life. Will you talk to me again--and
let me talk to you?"

"I should like to ask your advice," she replied.

That gave permission for Stephen to draw his chair near to hers. "Have you had tea?" he inquired,
by way of a beginning.

"I'm too American to drink tea in the afternoon," she explained. "It's only fashionable Americans
who take it, and I'm not that kind, as you can see. I come from the country--or almost the
country."

"Weren't you drawn into any of our little ways in London?" He was working up to a certain point.

"I was too busy."

"I'm sure you weren't too busy for one thing: reading the papers for your notices."

Victoria shook her head, smiling. "There you're mistaken. The first morning after I danced
at the Palace Theatre, I asked to see the papers they had in my boarding-house, because I hoped
so much that English people would like me, and I wanted to be a success. But afterwards I didn't
bother. I don't understand British politics, you see--how could I?--and I hardly know any English
people, so I wasn't very interested in their papers."

Again Stephen was relieved. But he felt driven by one of his strange new impulses to tell her
his name, and watch her face while he told it.

"'Curiouser and curiouser,' as our friend Alice would say," he laughed. "No newspaper paragraphs,
and a boarding-house instead of a fashionable hotel. What was your manager thinking about?"

"I had no manager of my very own," said Victoria. "I 'exploited' myself. It costs less to do
that. When people in America liked my dancing I got an offer from London, and I accepted it
and made all the arrangements about going over. It was quite easy, you see, because there were
only costumes to carry. My scenery is so simple, they either had it in the theatres or got
something painted: and the statues in the studio scene, and the sculptor, needed very few rehearsals.
In Paris they had only one. It was all I had time for, after I arrived. The lighting wasn't
difficult either, and though people told me at first there would be trouble unless I had my
own man, there never was any, really. In my letters to the managers I gave the dates when I
could come to their theatres, how long I could stay, and all they must do to get things ready.
The Paris engagement was made only a little while beforehand. I wanted to pass through there,
so I was glad to accept the offer and earn extra money which I thought I might need by and by."

"What a mercenary star!" Stephen spoke teasingly; but in truth he could not make the girl out.

She took the accusation with a smile. "Yes, I am mercenary, I suppose," she confessed with
unashamed frankness, "but not entirely for myself. I shouldn't like to be that! I told you
how I've been looking forward always to one end. And now, just when that end may be near, how
foolish I should be to spend a cent on unnecessary things! Why, I'd have felt wicked living
in an expensive hotel, and keeping a maid, when I could be comfortable in a Bloomsbury boarding-house
on ten dollars a week. And the dresser in the theater, who did everything very nicely, was
delighted with a present of twenty dollars when my London engagement was over."

"No doubt she was," said Stephen. "But----"

"I suppose you're thinking that I must have made lots of money, and that I'm a sort of little
miseress: and so I have--and so I am. I earned seven hundred and fifty dollars a week--isn't
that a hundred and fifty pounds?--for the six weeks, and I spent as little as possible; for
I didn't get as large a salary as that in America. I engaged to dance for three hundred dollars
a week there, which seemed perfectly wonderful to me at first; so I had to keep my contract,
though other managers would have given me more. I wanted dreadfully to take their offers, because
I was in such a hurry to have enough money to begin my real work. But I knew I shouldn't be
blessed in my undertaking if I acted dishonourably. Try as I might, I've only been able to
save up ten thousand dollars, counting the salary in Paris and all. Would you say that was
enough to bribe a person, if necessary? Two thousand of your pounds."

"It depends upon how rich the person is."

"I don't know how rich he is. Could an Arab be very rich?"

"I daresay there are still some rich ones. But maybe riches aren't the same with them as with
us. That fellow at lunch to-day looks as if he'd plenty of money to spend on embroideries."

"Yes. And he looks important too--as if he might have travelled, and known a great many people
of all sorts. I wish it were proper for me to talk to him."

"Good Heavens, why?" asked Stephen, startled. "It would be most improper."

"Yes, I'm afraid so, and I won't, of course, unless I get to know him in some way," went on
Victoria. "Not that there's any chance of such a thing."

"I should hope not," exclaimed Stephen, who was privately of opinion that there was only too
good a chance if the girl showed the Arab even the faintest sign of willingness to know and
be known. "I've no right to ask it, of course, except that I'm much older than you and have
seen more of the world--but do promise not to look at that nigger. I don't like his face."

"He isn't a nigger," objected Victoria. "But if he were, it wouldn't matter--nor whether one
liked his face or not. He might be able to help me."

"To help you--in Algiers?"

"Yes, in the same way that you might be able to help me--or more, because he's an Arab, and
must know Arabs."

Stephen forgot to press his request for her promise. "How can I help you?" he wanted to know.

"I'm not sure. Only, you're going to Algiers. I always ask everybody to help, if there's the
slightest chance they can."

Stephen felt disappointed and chilled. But she went on. "I should hate you to think I gush
to strangers, and tell them all my affairs, just because I'm silly enough to love talking.
I must talk to strangers. I must get help where I can. And you were kind the other night. Everybody
is kind. Do you know many people in Algeria, or Tunisia?"

"Only one man. His name is Nevill Caird, and he lives in Algiers. My name is Stephen Knight.
I've been wanting to tell you--I seemed to have an unfair advantage, knowing yours ever since
Paris."

He watched her face almost furtively, but no change came over it, no cloud in the blueness
of her candid eyes. The name meant nothing to her.

"I'm sorry. It's hardly worth while my bothering you then."

Stephen wished to be bothered. "But Nevill Caird has lived in Algiers for eight winters or
so," he said. "He knows everybody, French and English--Arab too, very likely, if there are
Arabs worth knowing."

A bright colour sprang to the girl's cheeks and turned her extreme prettiness into brilliant
beauty. It seemed to Stephen that the name of Ray suited her: she was dazzling as sunshine.
"Oh, then, I will tell you--if you'll listen," she said.

"If I had as many ears as a spear of wheat, they'd all want to listen." His voice sounded young
and eager. "Please begin at the beginning, as the children say."

"Shall I really? But it's a long story. It begins when I was eight."

"All the better. It will be ten years long."

"I can skip lots of things. When I was eight, and my sister Saidee not quite eighteen, we were
in Paris with my stepmother. My father had been dead just a year, but she was out of mourning.
She wasn't old--only about thirty, and handsome. She was jealous of Saidee, though, because
Saidee was so much younger and fresher, and because Saidee was beautiful--Oh, you can't imagine
how beautiful!"

"Yes, I can," said Stephen.

"You mean me to take that for a compliment. I know I'm quite pretty, but I'm nothing to Saidee.
She was a great beauty, though with the same colouring I have, except that her eyes were brown,
and her hair a little more auburn. People turned to look after her in the street, and that
made our stepmother angry. She wanted to be the one looked at. I knew, even then! She wouldn't
have travelled with us, only father had left her his money, on condition that she gave Saidee
and me the best of educations, and allowed us a thousand dollars a year each, from the time
our schooling was finished until we married. She had a good deal of influence over him, for
he was ill a long time, and she was his nurse--that was the way they got acquainted. And she
persuaded him to leave practically everything to her; but she couldn't prevent his making some
conditions. There was one which she hated. She was obliged to live in the same town with us;
so when she wanted to go and enjoy herself in Paris after father died, she had to take us too.
And she didn't care to shut Saidee up, because if Saidee couldn't be seen, she couldn't be
married; and of course Mrs. Ray wanted her to be married. Then she would have no bother, and
no money to pay. I often heard Saidee say these things, because she told me everything. She
loved me a great deal, and I adored her. My middle name is Cecilia, and she was generally called
Say; so she used to tell me that our secret names for each other must be 'Say and Seal.' It
made me feel very grown-up to have her confide so much in me: and never being with children
at all, gave me grown-up thoughts."

"Poor child!" said Stephen.

"Oh, I was very happy. It was only after--but that isn't the way to tell the story. Our stepmother--whom
we always called 'Mrs. Ray,' never 'mother'--liked officers, and we got acquainted with a good
many French ones. They used to come to the flat where we lived. Some of them were introduced
by our French governess, whose brother was in the army, but they brought others, and Saidee
and Mrs. Ray went to parties together, though Mrs. Ray hated being chaperon. If poor Saidee
were admired at a dinner, or a dance, Mrs. Ray would be horrid all next day, and say everything
disagreeable she could think of. Then Saidee would cry when we were alone, and tell me she
was so miserable, she would have to marry in self-defence. That made me cry too--but she promised
to take me with her if she went away.

"When we had been in Paris about two months, Saidee came to bed one night after a ball, and
waked me up. We slept in the same room. She was excited and looked like an angel. I knew something
had happened. She told me she'd met a wonderful man, and every one was fascinated with him.
She had heard of him before, but this was the first time they'd seen each other. He was in
the French army, she said, a captain, and older than most of the men she knew best, but very
handsome, and rich as well as clever. It was only at the last, after she'd praised the man
a great deal, that she mentioned his having Arab blood. Even then she hurried on to say his
mother was a Spanish woman, and he had been partly educated in France, and spoke perfect French,
and English too. They had danced together, and Saidee had never met so interesting a man. She
thought he was like the hero of some romance; and she told me I would see him, because he'd
begged Mrs. Ray to be allowed to call. He had asked Saidee lots of questions, and she'd told
him even about me--so he sent me his love. She seemed to think I ought to be pleased, but I
wasn't. I'd read the 'Arabian Nights', with pictures, and I knew Arabs were dark people. I
didn't look down on them particularly, but I couldn't bear to have Say interested in an Arab.
It didn't seem right for her, somehow."

The girl stopped, and apparently forgot to go on. She had been speaking with short pauses,
as if she hardly realized that she was talking aloud. Her eyebrows drew together, and she sighed.
Stephen knew that some memory pressed heavily upon her, but soon she began again.

"He came next day. He was handsome, as Saidee had said--as handsome as the Arab on board this
ship, but in a different way. He looked noble and haughty--yet as if he might be very selfish
and hard. Perhaps he was about thirty-three or four, and that seemed old to me then--old even
to Saidee. But she was fascinated. He came often, and she saw him at other houses. Everywhere
she was going, he would find out, and go too. That pleased her--for he was an important man
somehow, and of good birth. Besides, he was desperately in love--even a child could see that.
He never took his eyes off Saidee's face when she was with him. It was as if he could eat her
up; and if she flirted a little with the real French officers, to amuse herself or tease him,
it drove him half mad. She liked that--it was exciting, she used to say. And I forgot to tell
you, he wore European dress, except for a fez--no turban, like this man's on the boat, or I'm
sure she couldn't have cared for him in the way she did--he wouldn't have seemed possible,
for a Christian girl. A man in a turban! You understand, don't you?"

"Yes, I understand," Stephen said. He understood, too, how violently such beauty as the girl
described must have appealed to the dark man of the East. "The same colouring that I have,"
Victoria Ray had said. If he, an Englishman, accustomed to the fair loveliness of his countrywomen,
were a little dazzled by the radiance of this girl, what compelling influence must not the
more beautiful sister have exercised upon the Arab?

"He made love to Saidee in a fierce sort of way that carried her off her feet," went on Victoria.
"She used to tell me things he said, and Mrs. Ray did all she could to throw them together,
because he was rich, and lived a long way off--so she wouldn't have to do anything for Say
if they were married, or even see her again. He was only on leave in Paris. He was a Spahi,
stationed in Algiers, and he owned a house there."

"Ah, in Algiers!" Stephen began to see light--rather a lurid light.

"Yes. His name was Cassim ben Halim el Cheikh el Arab. Before he had known Saidee two weeks,
he proposed. She took a little while to think it over, and I begged her to say 'no'--but one
day when Mrs. Ray had been crosser and more horrid than usual, she said 'yes'. Cassim ben Halim
was Mohammedan, of course, but he and Saidee were married according to French law. They didn't
go to church, because he couldn't do that without showing disrespect to his own religion, but
he promised he'd not try to change hers. Altogether it seemed to Saidee that there was no reason
why they shouldn't be as happy as a Catholic girl marrying a Protestant--or vice versa; and
she hadn't any very strong convictions. She was a Christian, but she wasn't fond of going to
church."

"And her promise that she'd take you away with her?" Stephen reminded the girl.

"She would have kept it, if Mrs. Ray had consented--though I'm sure Cassim didn't want me,
and only agreed to do what Saidee asked because he was so deep in love, and feared to lose
my sister if he refused her anything. But Mrs. Ray was afraid to let me go, on account of the
condition in father's will that she should keep me near her while I was being educated. There
was an old friend of father's who'd threatened to try and upset the will, for Saidee's sake
and mine, so I suppose she thought he might succeed if she disobeyed father's instructions.
It ended in Saidee and her husband going to Algiers without me, and Saidee cried--but she couldn't
help being happy, because she was in love, and very excited about the strange new life, which
Cassim told her would be wonderful as some gorgeous dream of fairyland. He gave her quantities
of jewellery, and said they were nothing to what she should have when she was in her own home
with him. She should be covered from head to foot with diamonds and pearls, rubies and emeralds,
if she liked; and of course she would like, for she loved jewels, poor darling."

"Why do you say 'poor?'" asked Stephen. "Are you going to tell me the marriage wasn't a success?"

"I don't know," answered the girl. "I don't know any more about her than if Cassim ben Halim
had really carried my sister off to fairyland, and shut the door behind them. You see, I was
only eight years old. I couldn't make my own life. After Saidee was married and taken to Algiers,
my stepmother began to imagine herself in love with an American from Indiana, whom she met
in Paris. He had an impressive sort of manner, and made her think him rich and important. He
was in business, and had come over to rest, so he couldn't stay long abroad; and he urged Mrs.
Ray to go back to America on the same ship with him. Of course she took me, and this Mr. Henry
Potter told her about a boarding-school where they taught quite little girls, not far from
the town where he lived. It had been a farmhouse once, and he said there were 'good teachers
and good air.' I can hear him saying it now. It was easy to persuade her; and she engaged rooms
at a hotel in the town near by, which was called Potterston, after Mr. Potter's grandfather.
By and by they were married, but their marriage made no difference to me. It wasn't a bad little
old-fashioned school, and I was as happy as I could be anywhere, parted from Saidee. There
was an attic where I used to be allowed to sit on Saturdays, and think thoughts, and write
letters to my sister; and there was one corner, where the sunlight came in through a tiny window
shaped like a crescent, without any glass, which I named Algiers. I played that I went there
to visit Saidee in the old Arab palace she wrote me about. It was a splendid play--but I felt
lonely when I stopped playing it. I used to dance there, too, very softly in stockinged feet,
so nobody could hear--dances she and I made up together out of stories she used to tell me.
The Shadow Dance and the Statue Dance which you saw, came out of those stories, and there are
more you didn't see, which I do sometimes--a butterfly dance, the dance of the wheat, and two
of the East, which were in stories she told me after we knew Cassim ben Halim. They are the
dance of the smoke wreath, and the dance of the jewel-and-the-rose. I could dance quite well
even in those days, because I loved doing it. It came as natural to dance as to breathe, and
Saidee had always encouraged me, so when I was left alone it made me think of her, to dance
the dances of her stories."

"What about your teachers? Did they never find you out?" asked Stephen.

"Yes. One of the young teachers did at last. Not in the attic, but when I was dancing for the
big girls in their dormitory, at night--they'd wake me up to get me to dance. But she wasn't
much older than the biggest of the big girls, so she laughed--I suppose I must have looked
quaint dancing in my nighty, with my long red hair. And though we were all scolded afterwards,
I was made to dance sometimes at the entertainments we gave when school broke up in the summer.
I was the youngest scholar, you see, and stayed through the vacations, so I was a kind of pet
for the teachers. They were of one family, aunts and nieces--Southern people, and of course
good-natured. But all this isn't really in the story I want to tell you. The interesting part's
about Saidee. For months I got letters from her, written from Algiers. At first they were like
fairy tales, but by and by--quite soon--they stopped telling much about herself. It seemed
as if Saidee were growing more and more reserved, or else as if she were tired of writing to
me, and bored by it--almost as if she could hardly think of anything to say. Then the letters
stopped altogether. I wrote and wrote, but no answer came--no answer ever came."

"You've never heard from your sister since then?" The thing appeared incredible to Stephen.

"Never. Now you can guess what I've been growing up for, living for, all these years. To find her."

"But surely," Stephen argued, "there must have been some way to----"

"Not any way that was in my power, till now. You see I was helpless. I had no money, and I
was a child. I'm not very old yet, but I'm older than my years, because I had this thing to
do. There I was, at a farmhouse school in the country, two miles out of Potterston--and you
would think Potterston itself not much better than the backwoods, I'm sure. When I was fourteen,
my stepmother died suddenly--leaving all the money which came from my father to her husband,
except several thousand dollars to finish my education and give me a start in life; but Mr.
Potter lost everything of his own and of mine too, in some wild speculation about which the
people in that part of Indiana went mad. The crash came a year ago, and the Misses Jennings,
who kept the school, asked me to stay on as an under teacher--they were sorry for me, and so
kind. But even if nothing had happened, I should have left then, for I felt old enough to set
about my real work. Oh, I see you think I might have got at my sister before, somehow, but
I couldn't, indeed. I tried everything. Not only did I write and write, but I begged the Misses
Jennings to help, and the minister of the church where we went on Sundays. The Misses Jennings
told the girls' parents and relations whenever they came to visit, and they all promised, if
they ever went to Algiers, they would look for my sister's husband, Captain Cassim ben Halim,
of the Spahis. But they weren't the sort of people who ever do go such journeys. And the minister
wrote to the American Consul in Algiers for me, but the only answer was that Cassim ben Halim
had disappeared. It seemed not even to be known that he had an American wife."

"Your stepmother ought to have gone herself," said Stephen.

"Oh--ought! I very seldom saw my stepmother after she married Mr. Potter. Though she lived
so near, she never asked me to her house, and only came to call at the school once or twice
a year, for form's sake. But I ran away one evening and begged her to go and find Saidee. She
said it was nonsense; that if Saidee hadn't wanted to drop us, she would have kept on writing,
or else she was dead. But don't you think I should have known if Saidee were dead?"

"By instinct, you mean--telepathy, or something of that sort?"

"I don't know what I mean, but I should have known. I should have felt her death, like a string
snapping in my heart. Instead, I heard her calling to me--I hear her always. She wants me.
She needs me. I know it, and nothing could make me believe otherwise. So now you understand
how, if anything were to be done, I had to do it myself. When I was quite little, I thought
by the time I should be sixteen or seventeen, and allowed to leave school--or old enough to
run away if necessary--I'd have a little money of my own. But when my stepmother died I felt
sure I should never, never get anything from Mr. Potter."

"But that old friend you spoke of, who wanted to upset the will? Couldn't he have done anything?"
Stephen asked.

"If he had lived, everything might have been different; but he was a very old man, and he died
of pneumonia soon after Saidee married Cassim ben Halim. There was no one else to help. So
from the time I was fourteen, I knew that somehow I must make money. Without money I could
never hope to get to Algiers and find Saidee. Even though she had disappeared from there, it
seemed to me that Algiers would be the place to begin my search. Don't you think so?"

"Yes, Algiers is the place to begin," Stephen echoed. "There ought to be a way of tracking
her. Some one must know what became of a more or less important man such as your brother-in-law
seems to have been. It's incredible that he should have been able to vanish without leaving
any trace."

"He must have left a trace, and though nobody else, so far, has found it, I shall find it,"
said the girl. "I did what I could before. I asked everybody to help; and when I got to New
York last year, I used to go to Cook's office, to inquire for people travelling to Algiers.
Then, if I met any, I would at once speak of my sister, and give them my address, to let me
know if they should discover anything. They always seemed interested, and said they would really
do their best, but they must have failed, or else they forgot. No news ever came back. It will
be different with me now, though. I shall find Saidee, and if she isn't happy, I shall bring
her away with me. If her husband is a bad man, and if the reason he left Algiers is because
he lost his money, as I sometimes think, I may have to bribe him to let her go. But I have
money enough for everything, I hope--unless he's very greedy, or there are difficulties I can't
foresee. In that case, I shall dance again, and make more money, you know--that's all there
is about it."

"One thing I do know, is that you are wonderful," said Stephen, his conscience pricking him
because of certain unjust thoughts concerning this child which he had harboured since learning
that she was a dancer. "You're the most wonderful girl I ever saw or heard of."

She laughed happily. "Oh no, I'm not wonderful at all. It's funny you should think so. Perhaps
none of the girls you know have had a big work to do."

"I'm sure they never have," said Stephen, "and if they had, they wouldn't have done it."

"Yes, they would. Anybody would--that is, if they wanted to, enough. You can always do what
you want to enough. I wanted to do this with all my heart and soul, so I knew I should find
the way. I just followed my instinct, when people told me I was unreasonable, and of course
it led me right. Reason is only to depend on in scientific sorts of things, isn't it? The other
is higher, because instinct is your You."

"Isn't that what people say who preach New Thought, or whatever they call it?" asked Stephen.
"A lot of women I know had rather a craze about that two or three years ago. They went to lectures
given by an American man they raved over--said he was 'too fascinating.' And they used their
'science' to win at bridge. I don't know whether it worked or not."

"I never heard any one talk of New Thought," said Victoria. "I've just had my own thoughts
about everything. The attic at school was a lovely place to think thoughts in. Wonderful ones
always came to me, if I called to them--thoughts all glittering--like angels. They seemed to
bring me new ideas about things I'd been born knowing--beautiful things, which I feel somehow
have been handed down to me--in my blood."

"Why, that's the way my friends used to talk about 'waking their race-consciousness.' But it
only led to bridge, with them."

"Well, it's led me from Potterston here," said Victoria, "and it will lead me on to the end,
wherever that may be, I'm sure. Perhaps it will lead me far, far off, into that mysterious
golden silence, where in dreams I often see Saidee watching for me: the strangest dream-place,
and I've no idea where it is! But I shall find out, if she is really there."

"What supreme confidence you have in your star!" Stephen exclaimed, admiringly, and half enviously.

"Of course. Haven't you, in yours?"

"I have no star."

She turned her eyes to his, quickly, as if grieved. And in his eyes she saw the shadow of hopelessness
which was there to see, and could not be hidden from a clear gaze.

"I'm sorry," she said simply. "I don't know how I could have lived without mine. I walk in
its light, as if in a path. But yours must be somewhere in the sky, and you can find it if
you want to very much."

He could have found two in her eyes just then, but such stars were not for him. "Perhaps I
don't deserve a star," he said.

"I'm sure you do. You are the kind that does," the girl comforted him. "Do have a star!"

"It would only make me unhappy, because I mightn't be able to walk in its light, as you do."

"It would make you very happy, as mine does me. I'm always happy, because the light helps me
to do things. It helped me to dance: it helped me to succeed."

"Tell me about your dancing," said Stephen, vaguely anxious to change the subject, and escape
from thoughts of Margot, the only star of his future. "I should like to hear how you began,
if you don't mind."

"That's kind of you," replied Victoria, gratefully.

He laughed. "Kind!"

"Why, it's nothing of a story. Luckily, I'd always danced. So when I was fourteen, and began
to think I should never have any money of my own after all, I saw that dancing would be my
best way of earning it, as that was the one thing I could do very well. Afterwards I worked
in real earnest--always up in the attic, where I used to study the Arabic language too; study
it very hard. And no one knew what I was doing or what was in my head, till last year when
I told the oldest Miss Jennings that I couldn't be a teacher--that I must leave school and
go to New York."

"What did she say?"

"She said I was crazy. So did they all. They got the minister to come and argue with me, and
he was dreadfully opposed to my wishes at first. But after we'd talked a while, he came round
to my way."

"How did you persuade him to that point of view?" Stephen catechized her, wondering always.

"I hardly know. I just told him how I felt about everything. Oh, and I danced."

"By Jove! What effect had that on him?"

"He clapped his hands and said it was a good dance, quite different from what he expected.
He didn't think it would do any one harm to see. And he gave me a sort of lecture about how
I ought to behave if I became a dancer. It was easy to follow his advice, because none of the
bad things he feared might happen to me ever did."

"Your star protected you?"

"Of course. There was a little trouble about money at first, because I hadn't any, but I had
a few things--a watch that had been my mother's, and her engagement ring (they were Saidee's,
but she left them both for me when she went away), and a queer kind of brooch Cassim ben Halim
gave me one day, out of a lovely mother-o'-pearl box he brought full of jewels for Saidee,
when they were engaged. See, I have the brooch on now--for I wouldn't sell the things. I went
to a shop in Potterston and asked the man to lend me fifty dollars on them all, so he did.
It was very good of him."

"You seem to consider everybody you meet kind and good," Stephen said.

"Yes, they almost always have been so to me. If you believe people are going to be good, it
makes them good, unless they're very bad indeed."

"Perhaps." Stephen would not for a great deal have tried to undermine her confidence in her
fellow beings, and such was the power of the girl's personality, that for the moment he was
half inclined to feel she might be right. Who could tell? Maybe he had not "believed" enough--in
Margot. He looked with interest at the brooch of which Miss Ray spoke, a curiously wrought,
flattened ring of dull gold, with a pin in the middle which pierced and fastened her chiffon
veil on her breast. Round the edge, irregularly shaped pearls alternated with roughly cut emeralds,
and there was a barbaric beauty in both workmanship and colour.

"What happened when you got to your journey's end?" he went on, fearing to go astray on that
subject of the world's goodness, which was a sore point with him lately. "Did you know anybody
in New York?"

"Nobody. But I asked the driver of a cab if he could take me to a respectable theatrical boarding-house,
and he said he could, so I told him to drive me there. I engaged a wee back room at the top
of the house, and paid a week in advance. The boarders weren't very successful people, poor
things, for it was a cheap boarding-house--it had to be, for me. But they all knew which were
the best theatres and managers, and they were interested when they heard I'd come to try and
get a chance to be a dancer. They were afraid it wasn't much use, but the same evening they
changed their minds, and gave me lots of good advice."

"You danced for them?"

"Yes, in such a stuffy parlour, smelling of gas and dust and there were holes in the carpet
it was difficult not to step into. A dear old man without any hair, who was on what he called
the 'Variety Stage,' advised me to go and try to see Mr. Charles Norman, a fearfully important
person--so important that even I had heard of him, away out in Indiana. I did try, day after
day, but he was too important to be got at. I wouldn't be discouraged, though. I knew Mr. Norman
must come to the theatre sometimes, so I bought a photograph in order to recognize him; and
one day when he passed me, going in, I screwed up my courage and spoke. I said I'd been waiting
for days and days. At first he scowled, and I think meant to be cross, but when he'd given
me one long, terrifying glare, he grumbled out: "Come along with me, then. I'll soon see what
you can do." I went in, and danced on an almost dark stage, with Mr. Norman and another man
looking at me, in the empty theatre where all the chairs and boxes were covered up with sheets.
They seemed rather pleased with my dancing, and Mr. Norman said he would give me a chance.
Then, if I 'caught on'--he meant if people liked me--I should have a salary. But I told him
I must have the salary at once, as my money would only last a few more days. I'd spent nearly
all I had, getting to New York. Very well, said he, I should have thirty dollars a week to
begin with, and after that, we'd see what we'd see. Well, people did like my dances, and by
and by Mr. Norman gave me what seemed then a splendid salary. So now you know everything that's
happened; and please don't think I'd have worried you by talking so much about myself, if you
hadn't asked questions. I'm afraid I oughtn't to have done it, anyway."

Her tone changed, and became almost apologetic. She stirred uneasily in her deck chair, and
looked about half dazedly, as people look about a room that is new to them, on waking there
for the first time. "Why, it's grown dark!" she exclaimed.

This fact surprised Stephen equally. "So it has," he said. "By Jove, I was so interested in
you--in what you were telling--I hadn't noticed. I'd forgotten where we were."

"I'd forgotten, too," said Victoria. "I always do forget outside things when I think about
Saidee, and the golden dream-silence where I see her. All the people who were near us on deck
have gone away. Did you see them go?"

"No," said Stephen, "I didn't."

"How odd!" exclaimed the girl.

"Do you think so? You had taken me to the golden silence with you."

"Where can everybody be?" She spoke anxiously. "Is it late? Maybe they've gone to get ready
for dinner."

From a small bag she wore at her belt, American tourist-fashion, she pulled out an old-fashioned
gold watch of the kind that winds up with a key--her mother's, perhaps, on which she had borrowed
money to reach New York. "Something must be wrong with my watch," she said. "It can't be twenty
minutes past eight."

The same thing was wrong with Stephen's expensive repeater, whose splendour he was ashamed
to flaunt beside the modesty of the girl's poor little timepiece. There remained now no reasonable
doubt that it was indeed twenty minutes past eight, since by the mouths of two witnesses a
truth can be established.

"How dreadful!" exclaimed Victoria, mortified. "I've kept you here all this time, listening to me."

"Didn't I tell you I'd rather listen to you than anything else? Eating was certainly not excepted.
I don't remember hearing the bugle."

"And I didn't hear it."

"I'd forgotten dinner. You had carried me so far away with you."

"And Saidee," added the girl. "Thank you for going with us."

"Thank you for taking me."

They both laughed, and as they laughed, people began streaming out on deck. Dinner was over.
The handsome Arab passed, talking with the spare, loose-limbed English parson, whom he had
fascinated. They were discussing affairs in Morocco, and as they passed Stephen and Victoria,
the Arab did not appear to turn; yet Stephen knew that he was thinking of them and not of what
he was saying to the clergyman.

"What shall we do?" asked Victoria.

Stephen reflected for an instant. "Will you invite me to dine at your table?" he asked.

"Maybe they'll tell us it's too late now to have anything to eat. I don't mind for myself,
but for you----"

"We'll have a better dinner than the others have had," Stephen prophesied. "I guarantee it,
if you invite me."

"Oh, do please come," she implored, like a child. "I couldn't face the waiters alone. And you
know, I feel as if you were a friend, now--though you may laugh at that."

"It's the best compliment I ever had," said Stephen. "And--it gives me faith in myself--which
I need."

"And your star, which you're to find," the girl reminded him, as he unrolled her from her rug.

"I wish you'd lend me a little of the light from yours, to find mine by," he said half gaily,
yet with a certain wistfulness which she detected under the laugh.

"I will," she said quickly. "Not a little, but half."

VI

Stephen's prophecy came true. They had a better dinner than any one else had, and enjoyed it
as an adventure. Victoria thought their waiter a particularly good-natured man, because instead
of sulking over his duties he beamed. Stephen might, if he had chosen, have thrown another
light upon the waiter's smiles; but he didn't choose. And he was happy. He gave Victoria good
advice, and promised help from Nevill Caird. "He's sure to meet me at the ship," he said, "and
if you'll let me, I'll introduce him to you. He may be able to find out everything you want
to know."

Stephen would have liked to go on talking after dinner, but the girl, ashamed of having taken
up so much of his time, would not be tempted. She went to her cabin, and thought of him, as
well as of her sister; and he thought of her while he walked on deck, under the stars.

"For a moment white, then gone forever."

Again the words came singing into his head. She was white--white as this lacelike foam that
silvered the Mediterranean blue; but she had not gone forever, as he had thought when he likened
her whiteness to the spindrift on the dark Channel waves. She had come into his life once more,
unexpectedly; and she might brighten it again for a short time on land, in that unknown garden
his thoughts pictured, behind the gate of the East. Yet she would not be of his life. There
was no place in it for a girl. Still, he thought of her, and went on thinking, involuntarily
planning things which he and Nevill Caird would do to help the child, in her romantic errand.
Of course she must not be allowed to travel about Algeria alone. Once settled in Algiers she
must stay there quietly till the authorities found her sister.

He used that powerful-sounding word "authorities" vaguely in his mind, but he was sure that
the thing would be simple enough. The police could be applied to, if Nevill and his friends
should be unable to discover Ben Halim and his American wife. Almost unconsciously, Stephen
saw himself earning Victoria Ray's gratitude. It was a pleasant fancy, and he followed it as
one wanders down a flowery path found in a dark forest.

Victoria's thoughts of him were as many, though different.

She had never filled her mind with nonsense about men, as many girls do. As she would have
said to herself, she had been too busy. When girls at school had talked of being in love, and
of marrying, she had been interested, as if in a story-book, but it had not seemed to her that
she would ever fall in love or be married. It seemed so less than ever, now that she was at
last actually on her way to look for Saidee. She was intensely excited, and there was room
only for the one absorbing thought in mind and heart; yet she was not as anxious as most others
would have been in her place. Now that Heaven had helped her so far, she was sure she would
be helped to the end. It would be too bad to be true that anything dreadful should have happened
to Saidee--anything from which she, Victoria, could not save her; and so now, very soon perhaps,
everything would come right. It seemed to the girl that somehow Stephen was part of a great
scheme, that he had been sent into her life for a purpose. Otherwise, why should he have been
so kind since the first, and have appeared this second time, when she had almost forgotten
him in the press of other thoughts? Why should he be going where she was going, and why should
he have a friend who had known Algiers and Algeria since the time when Saidee's letters had ceased?

All these arguments were childlike; but Victoria Ray had not passed far beyond childhood; and
though her ideas of religion were her own--unlearned and unconventional--such as they were
they meant everything to her. Many things which she had heard in churches had seemed unreal
to the girl; but she believed that the Great Power moving the Universe planned her affairs
as well as the affairs of the stars, and with equal interest. She thought that her soul was
a spark given out by that Power, and that what was God in her had only to call to the All of
God to be answered. She had called, asking to find Saidee, and now she was going to find her,
just how she did not yet know; but she hardly doubted that Stephen Knight was connected with
the way. Otherwise, what was the good of him to her? And Victoria was far too humble in her
opinion of herself, despite that buoyant confidence in her star, to imagine that she could
be of any use to him. She could be useful to Saidee; that was all. She hoped for nothing more.
And little as she knew of society, she understood that Stephen belonged to a different world
from hers; the world where people were rich, and gay, and clever, and amused themselves; the
high world, from a social point of view. She supposed, too, that Stephen looked upon her as
a little girl, while she in her turn regarded him gratefully and admiringly, as from a distance.
And she believed that he must be a very good man.

It would never have occurred to Victoria Ray to call him, even in thought, her "White Knight,"
as Margot Lorenzi persisted in calling him, and had called him in the famous interview. But
it struck her, the moment she heard his name, that it somehow fitted him like a suit of armour.
She was fond of finding an appropriateness in names, and sometimes, if she were tired or a
little discouraged, she repeated her own aloud, several times over: "Victoria, Victoria. I
am Victoria," until she felt strong again to conquer every difficulty which might rise against
her, in living up to her name. Now she was of opinion that Stephen's face would do very well
in the picture of a young knight of olden days, going out to fight for the True Cross. Indeed,
he looked as if he had already passed through the preparation of a long vigil, for his face
was worn, and his eyes seldom smiled even when he laughed and seemed amused. His features gave
her an idea that the Creator had taken a great deal of pains in chiselling them, not slighting
a single line. She had seen handsomer men--indeed, the splendid Arab on the ship was handsomer--but
she thought, if she were a general who wanted a man to lead a forlorn hope which meant almost
certain death, she would choose one of Stephen's type. She had the impression that he would
not hesitate to sacrifice himself for a cause, or even for a person, in an emergency, although
he had the air of one used to good fortune, who loved to take his own way in the small things
of life.

And so she finally went to sleep thinking of Stephen.

It is seldom that even the Charles Quex, one of the fastest ships plying between Marseilles
and Algiers, makes the trip in eighteen hours, as advertised. Generally she takes two half-days
and a night, but this time people began to say that she would do it in twenty-two hours. Very
early in the dawning she passed the Balearic Isles, mysterious purple in an opal sea, and it
was not yet noon when the jagged line of the Atlas Mountains hovered in pale blue shadow along
a paler horizon. Then, as the turbines whirred, the shadow materialized, taking a golden solidity
and wildness of outline. At length the tower of a lighthouse started out clear white against
blue, as a shaft of sunshine struck it. Next, the nearer mountains slowly turned to green,
as a chameleon changes: the Admiralty Island came clearly into view; the ancient nest of those
fierce pirates who for centuries scourged the Mediterranean; and last of all, the climbing
town of Algiers, old Al-Djézair-el-Bahadja, took form like thick patterns of mother-o'-pearl
set in bright green enamel, the patterns eventually separating themselves into individual buildings.
The strange, bulbous domes of a Byzantine cathedral on a hill sprang up like a huge tropical
plant of many flowers, unfolding fantastic buds of deep rose-colour, against a sky of violet flame.

"At last, Africa!" said Victoria, standing beside Stephen, and leaning on the rail. She spoke
to herself, half whispering the words, hardly aware that she uttered them, but Stephen heard.
The two had not been long together during the morning, for each had been shy of giving too
much of himself or herself, although they had secretly wished for each other's society. As
the voyage drew to a close, however, Stephen was no longer able to resist an attraction which
he felt like a compelling magnetism. His excuse was that he wanted to know Miss Ray's first
impressions of the place she had constantly seen in her thoughts during ten years.

"Is it like what you expected?" he asked.

"Yes," she said, "it's like, because I have photographs. And I've read every book I could get
hold of, old and new, in French as well as English. I always kept up my French, you know, for
the same reason that I studied Arabic. I think I could tell the names of some of the buildings,
without making mistakes. Yet it looks different, as the living face of a person is different
from a portrait in black and white. And I never imagined such a sky. I didn't know skies could
be of such a colour. It's as if pale fire were burning behind a thin veil of blue."

It was as she said. Stephen had seen vivid skies on the Riviera, but there the blue was more
opaque, like the blue of the turquoise. Here it was ethereal and quivering, like the violet
fire that hovers over burning ship-logs. He was glad the sky of Africa was unlike any other
sky he had known. It intensified the thrill of enchantment he had begun to feel. It seemed
to him that it might be possible for a man to forget things in a country where even the sky
was of another blue.

Sometimes, when Stephen had read in books of travel (at which he seldom even glanced), or in
novels, about "the mystery of the East," he had smiled in a superior way. Why should the East
be more mysterious than the West, or North, or South, except that women were shut up in harems
and wore veils if they stirred out of doors? Such customs could scarcely make a whole country
mysterious. But now, though he had not yet landed, he knew that he would be compelled to acknowledge
the indefinable mystery at which he had sneered. Already he fancied an elusive influence, like
the touch of a ghost. It was in the pulsing azure of the sky; in the wild forms of the Atlas
and far Kabyle mountains stretching into vague, pale distances; in the ivory white of the low-domed
roofs that gleamed against the vivid green hill of the Sahel, like pearls on a veiled woman's
breast.

"Is it what you thought it would be?" Victoria inquired in her turn.

"I hadn't thought much about it," Stephen had to confess, fearing she would consider such indifference
uninteresting. He did not add what remained of the truth, that he had thought of Algiers as
a refuge from what had become disagreeable, rather than as a beautiful place which he wished
to see for its own sake. "I'd made no picture in my mind. You know a lot more about it all
than I do, though you've lived so far away, and I within a distance of forty-eight hours."

"That great copper-coloured church high on the hill is Notre Dame d'Afrique," said the girl.
"She's like a dark sister of Notre Dame de la Garde, who watches over Marseilles, isn't she?
I think I could love her, though she's ugly, really. And I've read in a book that if you walk
up the hill to visit her and say a prayer, you may have a hundred days' indulgence."

Much good an "indulgence" would do him now, Stephen thought bitterly.

As the ship steamed closer inshore, the dreamlike beauty of the white town on the green hillside
sharpened into a reality which might have seemed disappointingly modern and French, had it
not been for the sprinkling of domes, the pointing fingers of minarets with glittering tiles
of bronzy green, and the groups of old Arab houses crowded in among the crudities of a new,
Western civilization. Down by the wharf for which the boat aimed like a homing bird, were huddled
a few of these houses, ancient dwellings turned into commercial offices where shipping business
was transacted. They looked forlorn, yet beautiful, like haggard slavewomen who remembered
days of greatness in a far-off land.

The Charles Quex slackened speed as she neared the harbour, and every detail of the town leaped
to the eyes, dazzling in the southern sunshine. The encircling arms of break-waters were flung
out to sea in a vast embrace; the smoke of vessels threaded with dark, wavy lines the pure
crystal of the air; the quays were heaped with merchandise, some of it in bales, as if it might
have been brought by caravans across the desert. There was a clanking of cranes at work, a
creaking of chains, a flapping of canvas, and many sounds which blend in the harsh poetry of
sea-harbours. Then voices of men rose shrilly above all heavier noises, as the ship slowly
turned and crept beside a floating pontoon. The journey together was over for Stephen Knight
and Victoria Ray.

VII

A first glance, at such close quarters, would have told the least instructed stranger that
he was in the presence of two clashing civilizations, both tenacious, one powerful.

In front, all along the shore, towered with confident effrontery a massive line of buildings
many stories high, great cubes of brick and stone, having elaborate balconies that shadowed
swarming offices with dark, gaping vaults below. Along the broad, stone-paved street clanged
electric tramcars. There was a constant coming and going of men. Cloaked and hooded white forms,
or half-clad apparitions wrapped in what looked like dirty bagging, mingled with commonplace
figures in Western dress. But huddled in elbow-high with this busy town of modern France (which
might have been Marseilles or Bordeaux) was something alien, something remote in spirit; a
ghostly band of white buildings, silent and pale in the midst of colour and noise. Low houses
with flat roofs or miniature domes, small, secret doorways, tiny windows like eyes narrowed
for spying, and overhanging upper stories supported on close-set, projecting sticks of mellow
brown which meant great age. Minarets sprang up in mute protest against the infidel, appealing
to the sky. All that was left of old Algiers tried to boast, in forced dumbness, of past glories,
of every charm the beautiful, fierce city of pirates must have possessed before the French
came to push it slowly but with deadly sureness back from the sea. Now, silent and proud in
the tragedy of failure, it stood masked behind pretentious French houses, blocklike in ugliness,
or flauntingly ornate as many buildings in the Rue de Rivoli or Boulevard Haussmann.

In those low-browed dwellings which thickly enamelled the hill with a mosaic of pink and pearly
whiteness, all the way up to the old fortress castle, the Kasbah, the true life of African
Algiers hid and whispered. The modern French front along the fine street was but a gay veneer
concealing realities, an incrusted civilization imposed upon one incredibly ancient, unspeakably
different and ever unchanging.

Stephen remembered now that he had heard people decry Algiers, pronouncing it spoiled and "completely
Frenchified." But it occurred to him that in this very process of spoiling, an impression of
tragic romance had been created which less "spoiled" towns might lack. Here were clashing contrasts
which, even at a glance, made the strangest picture he had ever seen; and already he began
to feel more and more keenly, though not yet to understand, something of the magic of the East.
For this place, though not the East according to geographers, held all the spirit of the East--was
in essence truly the East.

Before the ship lay fairly in harbour, brown men had climbed on board from little boats, demanding
to be given charge of the passengers' small luggage, which the stewards had brought on deck,
and while one of these was arguing in bad French with Stephen, a tall, dark youth beautifully
dressed in crimson and white, wearing a fez jauntily on one side, stepped up with a smile.
"Pardon, monsieur," he ventured. "Je suis le domestique de Monsieur Caird." And then, in richly
guttural accents, he offered the information that he was charged to look after monsieur's baggage;
that it was best to avoid tous ces Arabes là, and that Monsieur Caird impatiently awaited his
friend on the wharf.

"But you--aren't you Arab?" asked Stephen, who knew no subtle differences between those who
wore the turban or fez. He saw that the good-looking, merry-faced boy was no browner than many
a Frenchman of the south, and that his eyes were hazel; still, he did not know what he might
be, if not Arab.

"Je suis Kabyle, monsieur; Kabyle des hauts plateaux," replied the youth with pride, and a
look of contempt at the shouting porters, which was returned with interest. They darted glances
of scorn at his gold-braided vest and jacket of crimson cloth, his light blue sash, and his
enormously full white trousers, beneath which showed a strip of pale golden leg above the short
white stockings, spurning the immaculate smartness of his livery, preferring, or pretending
to prefer, their own soiled shabbiness and freedom. The Kabyle saw these glances, but, completely
satisfied with himself, evidently attributed them to envy.

Stephen turned towards Victoria, of whom he had lost sight for a moment. He wished to offer
the Kabyle boy's services, but already she had accepted those of a very old Arab who looked
thin and ostentatiously pathetic. It was too late now. He saw by her face that she would refuse
help, rather than hurt the man's feelings. But she had told him the name of the hotel where
she had telegraphed to engage a room, and Stephen meant at the instant of greeting his host,
to ask if it were suitable for a young girl travelling alone.

He caught sight of Caird, looking up and waiting for him, before he was able to land. It was
the face he remembered; boyish, with beautiful bright eyes, a wide forehead, and curly light
hair. The expression was more mature, but the same quaintly angelic look was there, which had
earned for Nevill the nickname of "Choir Boy" and "Wings."

"Hullo, Legs!" called out Caird, waving his Panama.

"Hullo, Wings!" shouted Stephen, and was suddenly tremendously glad to see the friend he had
thought of seldom during the last eight or nine years. In another moment he was introducing
Nevill to Miss Ray and hastily asking questions concerning her hotel, while a fantastic crowd
surged round all three. Brown, skurrying men in torn bagging, the muscles of whose bare, hairless
legs seemed carved in dark oak; shining black men whose faces were ebony under the ivory white
of their turbans; pale, patient Kabyles of the plains bent under great sacks of flour which
drained through ill-sewn seams and floated on the air in white smoke, making every one sneeze
as the crowd swarmed past. Large grey mules roared, miniature donkeys brayed, and half-naked
children laughed or howled, and darted under the heads of the horses, or fell against the bright
bonnets of waiting motor cars. There were smart victorias, shabby cabs, hotel omnibuses, and
huge carts; and, mingling with the floating dust of the spilt flour was a heavy perfume of
spices, of incense perhaps blown from some far-off mosque, and ambergris mixed with grains
of musk in amulets which the Arabs wore round their necks, heated by their sweating flesh as
they worked or stalked about shouting guttural orders. There was a salt tang of seaweed, too,
like an undertone, a foundation for all the other smells; and the air was warm with a hint
of summer, a softness that was not enervating.

As soon as the first greeting and the introduction to Miss Ray were confusedly over, Caird
cleverly extricated the newcomers from the thick of the throng, sheltering them between his
large yellow motor car and a hotel omnibus waiting for passengers and luggage.

"Now you're safe," he said, in the young-sounding voice which pleasantly matched his whole
personality. He was several years older than Stephen, but looked younger, for Stephen was nearly
if not quite six feet in height, and Nevill Caird was less in stature by at least four inches.
He was very slightly built, too, and his hair was as yellow as a child's. His face was clean-shaven,
like Stephen's, and though Stephen, living mostly in London, was brown as if tanned by the
sun, Nevill, out of doors constantly and exposed to hot southern sunshine, had the complexion
of a girl. Nevertheless, thought Victoria--sensitive and quick in forming impressions--he somehow
contrived to look a thorough man, passionate and ready to be violently in earnest, like one
who would love or hate in a fiery way. "He would make a splendid martyr," the girl said to
herself, giving him straight look for straight look, as he began advising her against her chosen
hotel. "But I think he would want his best friends to come and look on while he burned. Mr.
Knight would chase everybody away."

"Don't go to any hotel," Nevill said. "Be my aunt's guest. It's a great deal more her house
than mine. There's lots of room in it--ever so much more than we want. Just now there's no
one staying with us, but often we have a dozen or so. Sometimes my aunt invites people. Sometimes
I do: sometimes both together. Now I invite you, in her name. She's quite a nice old lady.
You'll like her. And we've got all kinds of animals--everything, nearly, that will live in
this climate, from tortoises of Carthage, to white mice from Japan, and a baby panther from
Grand Kabylia. But they keep themselves to themselves. I promise you the panther won't try
to sit on your lap. And you'll be just in time to christen him. We've been looking for a name."

"I should love to christen the panther, and you are more than kind to say your aunt would like
me to visit her; but I can't possibly, thank you very much," answered Victoria in the old-fashioned,
quaintly provincial way which somehow intensified the effect of her brilliant prettiness. "I
have come to Algiers on--on business that's very important to me. Mr. Knight will tell you
all about it. I've asked him to tell, and he's promised to beg for your help. When you know,
you'll see that it will be better for me not to be visiting anybody. I--I would rather be in
a hotel, in spite of your great kindness."

That settled the matter. Nevill Caird had too much tact to insist, though he was far from being
convinced. He said that his aunt, Lady MacGregor, would write Miss Ray a note asking her to
lunch next day, and then they would have the panther-christening. Also by that time he would
know, from his friend, how his help might best be given. But in any case he hoped that Miss
Ray would allow his car to drop her at the Hotel de la Kasbah, which had no omnibus and therefore
did not send to meet the boat. Her luggage might go up with the rest, and be left at the hotel.

These offers Victoria accepted gratefully; and as Caird put her into the fine yellow car, the
handsome Arab who had been on the boat looked at her with chastened curiosity as he passed.
He must have seen that she was with the Englishman who had talked to her on board the Charles
Quex, and that now there was another man, who seemed to be the owner of the large automobile.
The Arab had a servant with him, who had travelled second class on the boat, a man much darker
than himself, plainly dressed, with a smaller turban bound by cheaper cord; but he was very
clean, and as dignified as his master. Stephen scarcely noticed the two figures. The fine-looking
Arab had ceased to be of importance since he had left the ship, and would see no more of Victoria
Ray.

The chauffeur who drove Nevill's car was an Algerian who looked as if he might have a dash
of dark blood in his veins. Beside him sat the Kabyle servant, who, in his picturesque embroidered
clothes, with his jaunty fez, appeared amusingly out of place in the smart automobile, which
struck the last note of modernity. The chauffeur had a reckless, daring face, with the smile
of a mischievous boy; but he steered with caution and skill through the crowded streets where
open trams rushed by, filled to overflowing with white-veiled Arab women of the lower classes,
and French girls in large hats, who sat crushed together on the same seats. Arabs walked in
the middle of the street, and disdained to quicken their steps for motor cars and carriages.
Tiny children with charming brown faces and eyes like wells of light, darted out from the pavement,
almost in front of the motor, smiling and begging, absolutely, fearless and engagingly impudent.
It was all intensely interesting to Stephen, who was, however, conscious enough of his past
to be glad that he was able to take so keen an interest. He had the sensation of a man who
has been partially paralyzed, and is delighted to find that he can feel a pinch.

The Hotel de la Kasbah, which Victoria frankly admitted she had chosen because of its low prices,
was, as its name indicated, close to the mounting of the town, near the corner of a tortuous
Arab street, narrow and shadowy despite its thick coat of whitewash. The house was kept by
an extremely fat Algerian, married to a woman who called herself Spanish, but was more than
half Moorish; and the proprietor himself being of mixed blood, all the servants except an Algerian
maid or two, were Kabyles or Arabs. They were cheap and easy to manage, since master and mistress
had no prejudices. Stephen did not like the look of the place, which might suit commercial
travellers or parties of economical tourists who liked to rub shoulders with native life; but
for a pretty young girl travelling alone, it seemed to him that, though it was clean enough,
nothing could be less appropriate. Victoria had made up her mind and engaged her room, however;
and so as no definite objection could be urged, he followed Caird's example, and held his tongue.
As they bade the girl good-bye in the tiled hall (a fearful combination of all that was worst
in Arab and European taste) Nevill begged her to let them know if she were not comfortable.
"You're coming to lunch to-morrow at half-past one," he went on, "but if there's anything meanwhile,
call us up on the telephone. We can easily find you another hotel, or a pension, if you're
determined not to visit my aunt."

"If I need you, I promise that I will call," Victoria said. And though she answered Caird,
she looked at Stephen Knight.

Then they left her; and Stephen became rather thoughtful. But he tried not to let Nevill see
his preoccupation.

VIII

As they left the arcaded streets of commercial Algiers, and drove up the long hill towards
Mustapha Supérieur, where most of the best and finest houses are, Stephen and Nevill Caird
talked of what they saw, and of Victoria Ray; not at all of Stephen himself. Nevill had asked
him what sort of trip he had had, and not another question of any sort. Stephen was glad of
this, and understood very well that it was not because his friend was indifferent. Had he been
so, he would not have invited Stephen to make this visit.

To speak of the past they had shared, long ago, would naturally have led farther, and though
Stephen was not sure that he mightn't some day refer, of his own accord, to the distasteful
subject of the Case and Margot Lorenzi, he could not have borne to mention either now.

As they passed gateways leading to handsome houses, mostly in the Arab style, Nevill told him
who lived in each one: French, English, and American families; people connected with the government,
who remained in Algiers all the year round, or foreigners who came out every winter for love
of their beautiful villa gardens and the climate.

"We've rather an amusing society here," he said. "And we'd defend Algiers and each other to
any outsider, though our greatest pleasure is quarrelling among ourselves, or patching up one
another's rows and beginning again on our own account. It's great fun and keeps us from stagnating.
We also give quantities of luncheons and teas, and are sick of going to each other's entertainments;
yet we're so furious if there's anything we're not invited to, we nearly get jaundice. I do
myself--though I hate running about promiscuously; and I spend hours thinking up ingenious
lies to squeeze out of accepting invitations I'd have been ill with rage not to get. And there
are factions which loathe each other worse than any mere Montagus and Capulets. We have rival
parties, and vie with one another in getting hold of any royalties or such like, that may be
knocking about; but we who hate each other most, meet at the Governor's Palace and smile sweetly
if French people are looking; if not, we snort like war-horses--only in a whisper, for we're
invariably polite."

Stephen laughed, as he was meant to do. "What about the Arabs?" he asked, with Victoria's errand
in his mind. "Is there such a thing as Arab society?"

"Very little--of the kind we'd call 'society'--in Algiers. In Tunis there's more. Much of the
old Arab aristocracy has died out here, or moved away; but there are a few left who are rich
and well born. They have their palaces outside the town; but most of the best houses have been
sold to Europeans, and their Arab owners have gone into the interior where the Roumis don't
rub elbows with them quite as offensively as in a big French town like this. Naturally they
prefer the country. And I know a few of the great Arab Chiefs--splendid-looking fellows who
turn up gorgeously dressed for the Governor's ball every year, and condescend to dine with
me once or twice while they're staying on to amuse themselves in Algiers."

"Condescend!" Stephen repeated.

"By Jove, yes. I'm sure they think it's a great condescension. And I'm not sure you won't think
so too, when you see them--as of course you will. You must go to the Governor's ball with me,
even if you can't be bothered going anywhere else. It's a magnificent spectacle. And I get
on pretty well among the Arabs, as I've learned to speak their lingo a bit. Not that I've worried.
But nearly nine years is a long time."

This was Stephen's chance to tell what he chose to tell of his brief acquaintance with Victoria
Ray, and of the mission which had brought her to Algiers. Somehow, as he unfolded the story
he had heard from the girl on board ship, the scent of orange blossoms, luscious-sweet in this
region of gardens, connected itself in his mind with thoughts of the beautiful woman who had
married Cassim ben Halim, and disappeared from the world she had known. He imagined her in
an Arab garden where orange blossoms fell like snow, eating her heart out for the far country
and friends she would never see again, rebelling against a monstrous tyranny which imprisoned
her in this place of perfumes and high white walls. Or perhaps the scented petals were falling
now upon her grave.

"Cassim ben Halim--Captain Cassim ben Halim," Nevill repeated. "Seems familiar somehow, as
if I'd heard the name; but most of these Arab names have a kind of family likeness in our ears.
Either he's a person of no particular importance, or else he must have left Algiers before
my Uncle James Caird died--the man who willed me his house, you know--brother of Aunt Caroline
MacGregor who lives with me now. If I've ever heard anything about Ben Halim, whatever it is
has slipped my mind. But I'll do my best to find out something."

"Miss Ray believes he was of importance," said Stephen. "She oughtn't to have much trouble
getting on to his trail, should you think?"

Nevill looked doubtful. "Well, if he'd wanted her on his trail, she'd never have been off it.
If he didn't, and doesn't, care to be got at, finding him mayn't be as simple as it would be
in Europe, where you can always resort to detectives if worst comes to worst."

"Can't you here?" asked Stephen.

"Well, there's the French police, of course, and the military in the south. But they don't
care to interfere with the private affairs of Arabs, if no crime's been committed--and they
wouldn't do anything in such a case, I should think, in the way of looking up Ben Halim, though
they'd tell anything they might happen to know already, I suppose--unless they thought best
to keep silence with foreigners."

"There must be people in Algiers who'd remember seeing such a beautiful creature as Ben Halim's
wife, even if her husband whisked her away nine years ago," Stephen argued.

"I wonder?" murmured Caird, with an emphasis which struck his friend as odd.

"What do you mean?" asked Stephen.

"I mean, I wonder if any one in Algiers ever saw her at all? Ben Halim was in the French Army;
but he was a Mussulman. Paris and Algiers are a long cry, one from the other--if you're an Arab."

"Jove! You don't think----"

"You've spotted it. That's what I do think."

"That he shut her up?"

"That he forced her to live the life of a Mussulman woman. Why, what else could you expect,
when you come to look at it?"

"But an American girl----"

"A woman who marries gives herself to her husband's nation as well as to her husband, doesn't
she--especially if he's an Arab? Only, thank God, it happens to very few European girls, except
of the class that doesn't so much matter. Think of it. This Ben Halim, a Spahi officer, falls
dead in love with a girl when he's on leave in Paris. He feels he must have her. He can get
her only by marriage. They're as subtle as the devil, even the best of them, these Arabs. He'd
have to promise the girl anything she wanted, or lose her. Naturally he wouldn't give it away
that he meant to veil her and clap her into a harem the minute he got her home. If he'd even
hinted anything of that sort she wouldn't have stirred a step. But for a Mussulman to let his
wife walk the streets unveiled, like a Roumia, or some woman of easy virtue, would be a horrible
disgrace to them both. His relations and friends would cut him, and hoot her at sight. The
more he loved his wife, the less likely he'd be to keep a promise, made in a different world.
It wouldn't be human nature--Arab human nature--to keep it. Besides, they have the jealousy
of the tiger, these Eastern fellows. It's a madness."

"Then perhaps no one ever knew, out here, that the man had brought home a foreign wife?"

"Almost surely not. No European, that is. Arabs might know--through their women. There's nothing
that passes which they can't find out. How they do it, who can tell? Their ways are as mysterious
as everything else here, except the lives of us hiverneurs, who don't even try very hard to
hide our own scandals when we have any. But no Arab could be persuaded or forced to betray
another Arab to a European, unless for motives of revenge. For love or hate, they stand together.
In virtues and vices they're absolutely different from Europeans. And if Ben Halim doesn't
want anybody, not excepting his wife's sister, to get news of his wife, why, it may be difficult
to get it, that's all I say. Going to Miss Ray's hotel, you could see something of that Arab
street close by, on the fringe of the Kasbah--which is what they call, not the old fort alone,
but the whole Arab town."

"Yes. I saw the queer white houses, huddled together, that looked like blank walls only broken
by a door, with here and there a barred window."

"Well, what I mean is that it's almost impossible for any European to learn what goes on behind
those blank walls and those little square holes, in respectable houses. But we'll hope for
the best. And here we are at my place. I'm rather proud of it."

They had come to the arched gateway of a white-walled garden. The sun had set fire to the gold
of some sunken Arab lettering over the central arch, so that each broken line darted forth
its separate flame. "Djenan el Djouad; House of the Nobleman," Nevill translated. "It was built
for the great confidant of a particularly wicked old Dey of Algiers, in sixteen hundred and
something, and the place had been allowed to fall into ruin when my uncle bought it, about
twenty or thirty years ago. There was a romance in his life, I believe. He came to Algiers
for his health, as a young man, meaning to stay only a few months, but fell in love with a
face which he happened to catch a glimpse of, under a veil that disarranged itself--on purpose
or by accident--in a carriage belonging to a rich Arab. Because of that face he remained in
Algiers, bought this house, spent years in restoring it, exactly in Arab style, and making
a beautiful garden out of his fifteen or sixteen acres. Whether he ever got to know the owner
of the face, history doesn't state: my uncle was as secretive as he was romantic. But odd things
have been said. I expect they're still said, behind my back. And they're borne out, I'm bound
to confess, by the beauty of the decorations in that part of the house intended for the ladies.
Whether it was ever occupied in Uncle James's day, nobody can tell; but Aunt Caroline, his
sister, who has the best rooms there now, vows she's seen the ghost of a lovely being, all
spangled gauze and jewels, with silver khal-khal, or anklets, that tinkle as she moves. I assure
my aunt it must be a dream, come to punish her for indulging in two goes of her favourite sweet
at dinner; but in my heart I shouldn't wonder if it's true. The whole lot of us, in our family,
are romantic and superstitious. We can't help it and don't want to help it, though we suffer
for our foolishness often enough, goodness knows."

The scent of orange blossoms and acacias was poignantly sweet, as the car passed an Arab lodge,
and wound slowly up an avenue cut through a grove of blossoming trees. The utmost pains had
been taken in the laying out of the garden, but an effect of carelessness had been preserved.
The place seemed a fairy tangle of white and purple lilacs, gold-dripping laburnums, acacias
with festoons of pearl, roses looping from orange tree to mimosa, and a hundred gorgeous tropical
flowers like painted birds and butterflies. In shadowed nooks under dark cypresses, glimmered
arum lilies, sparkling with the diamond dew that sprayed from carved marble fountains, centuries
old; and low seats of marble mosaiced with rare tiles stood under magnolia trees or arbours
of wistaria. Giant cypresses, tall and dark as a band of Genii, marched in double line on either
side the avenue as it straightened and turned towards the house.

White in the distance where that black procession halted, glittered the old Arab palace, built
in one long façade, and other façades smaller, less regular, looking like so many huge blocks
of marble grouped together. Over one of these blocks fell a crimson torrent of bougainvillæa;
another was veiled with white roses and purple clematis; a third was showered with the gold
of some strange tropical creeper that Stephen did not know.

On the roof of brown and dark-green tiles, the sunlight poured, making each tile lustrous as
the scale of a serpent, and all along the edge grew tiny flowers and grasses, springing out
of interstices to wave filmy threads of pink and gold.

The principal façade was blank as a wall, save for a few small, mysterious windows, barred
with grilles of iron, green with age; but on the other façades were quaint recessed balconies,
under projecting roofs supported with beams of cedar; and the door, presently opened by an
Arab servant, was very old too, made of oak covered with an armour of greenish copper.

Even when it had closed behind Stephen and Nevill, they were not yet in the house, but in a
large court with a ceiling of carved and painted cedar-wood supported by marble pillars of
extreme lightness and grace. In front, this court was open, looking on to an inner garden with
a fountain more delicate of design than those Stephen had seen outside. The three walls of
the court were patterned all over with ancient tiles rare as some faded Spanish brocade in
a cathedral, and along their length ran low seats where in old days sat slaves awaiting orders
from their master.

Out from this court they walked through a kind of pillared cloister, and the façades of the
house as they passed on, were beautiful in pure simplicity of line; so white, they seemed to
turn the sun on them to moonlight; so jewelled with bands and plaques of lovely tiles, that
they were like snowy shoulders of a woman hung with necklaces of precious stones.

By the time they had left this cloistered garden and threaded their way indoors, Stephen had
lost his bearings completely. He was convinced that, once in, he should never find the clue
which would guide him out again as he had come. There was another garden court, much larger
than the first, and this, Nevill said, had been the garden of the palace-women in days of old.
It had a fountain whose black marble basin was fringed with papyrus, and filled with pink,
blue, and white water lilies, from under whose flat dark pads glimmered the backs of darting
goldfish. Three walls of this garden had low doorways with cunningly carved doors of cedar-wood,
and small, iron-barred windows festooned with the biggest roses Stephen had ever seen; but
the fourth side was formed by an immense loggia with a dais at the back, and an open-fronted
room at either end. Walls and floor of this loggia were tiled, and barred windows on either
side the dais looked far down over a world which seemed all sky, sea, and garden. One of the
little open rooms was hung with Persian prayer-rugs which Stephen thought were like fading
rainbows seen through a mist; and there were queer old tinselled pictures such as good Moslems
love: Borak, the steed of the prophet, half winged woman, half horse; the Prophet's uncle engaged
in mighty battle; the Prophet's favourite daughter, Fatma-Zora, daintily eating her sacred
breakfast. The other room at the opposite end of the tiled loggia was fitted up, Moorish fashion,
for the making of coffee; walls and ceiling carved, gilded, and painted in brilliant colours;
the floor tiled with the charming "windmill" pattern; many shelves adorned with countless little
coffee cups in silver standards; with copper and brass utensils of all imaginable kinds; and
in a gilded recess was a curious apparatus for boiling water.

Nevill Caird displayed his treasures and the beauties of his domain with an ingenuous pride,
delighted at every word of appreciation, stopping Stephen here and there to point out something
of which he was fond, explaining the value of certain old tiles from the point of view of an
expert, and gladly lingering to answer every question. Some day, he said, he was going to write
a book about tiles, a book which should have wonderful illustrations.

"Do you really like it all?" he asked, as Stephen looked out from a barred window of the loggia,
over the wide view.

"I never even imagined anything so fantastically beautiful," Stephen returned warmly. "You
ought to be happy, even if you could never go outside your own house and gardens. There's nothing
to touch this on the Riviera. It's a palace of the 'Arabian Nights.'"

"There was a palace in the 'Arabian Nights,' if you remember," said Nevill, "where everything
was perfect except one thing. Its master was miserable because he couldn't get that thing."

"The Roc's egg, of Aladdin's palace," Stephen recalled. "Do you lack a Roc's egg for yours?"

"The equivalent," said Nevill. "The one thing which I want, and don't seem likely to get, though
I haven't quite given up hope. It's a woman. And she doesn't want me--or my palace. I'll tell
you about her some day--soon, perhaps. And maybe you'll see her. But never mind my troubles
for the moment. I can put them out of my mind with comparative ease, in the pleasure of welcoming
you. Now we'll go indoors. You haven't an idea what the house is like yet. By the way, I nearly
forgot this chap."

He put his hand into the pocket of his grey flannel coat, and pulled out a green frog, wrapped
in a lettuce leaf which was inadequate as a garment, but a perfect match as to colour.

"I bought him on the way down to meet you," Nevill explained. "Saw an Arab kid trying to sell
him in the street, poor little beast. Thought it would be a friendly act to bring him here
to join my happy family, which is large and varied. I don't remember anybody living in this
fountain who's likely to eat him, or be eaten by him."

Down went the frog on the wide rim of the marble fountain, and sat there, meditatively, with
a dawning expression of contentment, so Stephen fancied, on his green face. He looked, Stephen
thought, as if he were trying to forget a troubled past, and as if his new home with all its
unexplored mysteries of reeds and lily pads were wondrously to his liking.

"I wish you'd name that person after me," said Stephen. "You're being very good to both of
us,--taking us out of Hades into Paradise."

"Come along in," was Nevill Caird's only answer. But he walked into the house with his hand
on Stephen's shoulder.

IX

Djenan El Djouad was a labyrinth. Stephen Knight abandoned all attempt at keeping a mental
clue before he had reached the drawing-room. Nevill led him there by way of many tile-paved
corridors, lit by hanging Arab lamps suspended from roofs of arabesqued cedar-wood. They went
up or down marble steps, into quaint little alcoved rooms furnished with nothing but divans
and low tables or dower chests crusted with Syrian mother-o'-pearl, on into rooms where brocade-hung
walls were covered with Arab musical instruments of all kinds, or long-necked Moorish guns
patterned with silver, ivory and coral. Here and there as they passed, were garden glimpses,
between embroidered curtains, looking through windows always barred with greenish wrought iron,
so old as to be rarely beautiful; and some small windows had no curtains, but were thickly
frilled outside with the violent crimson of bougainvillæa, or fringed with tassels of wistaria,
loop on loop of amethysts. High above these windows, which framed flowery pictures, were other
windows, little and jewelled, mere plaques of filigree workmanship, fine as carved ivory or
silver lace, and lined with coloured glass of delicate tints--gold, lilac, and pale rose.

"Here's the drawing-room at last," said Nevill, "and here's my aunt."

"If you can call it a drawing-room," objected a gently complaining voice. "A filled-in court,
where ghosts of murdered slaves come and moan, while you have your tea. How do you do, Mr.
Knight? I'm delighted you've taken pity on Nevill. He's never so happy as when he's showing
a new friend the house--except when he's obtained an old tile, or a new monster of some sort,
for his collection."

"In me, he kills two birds with one stone," said Stephen, smiling, as he shook the hand of
a tiny lady who looked rather like an elderly fairy disguised in a cap, that could have been
born nowhere except north of the Tweed.

She had delicate little features which had been made to fit a pretty child, and had never grown
up. Her hair, of a reddish yellow, had faded to a yellowish white, which by a faint fillip
of the imagination could be made to seem golden in some lights. Her eyes were large and round,
and of a china-blue colour; her eyebrows so arched as to give her an expression of perpetual
surprise, her forehead full, her cheekbones high and pink, her small, pursed mouth of the kind
which prefers to hide a sense of humour, and then astonish people with it when they have ceased
to believe in its existence. If her complexion had not been netted all over with a lacework
of infinitesimal wrinkles, she would have looked like a little girl dressed up for an old lady.
She had a ribbon of the MacGregor tartan on her cap, and an uncompromising cairngorm fastened
her fichu of valuable point lace. A figure more out of place than hers in an ancient Arab palace
of Algiers it would be impossible to conceive; yet it was a pleasant figure to see there, and
Stephen knew that he was going to like Nevill's Aunt Caroline, Lady MacGregor.

"I wish you looked more of a monster than you do," said she, "because you might frighten the
ghosts. We're eaten up with them, the way some folk in old houses are with rats. Nearly all
of them slaves, too, so there's no variety, except that some are female. I've given you the
room with the prettiest ghosts, but if you're not the seventh son of a seventh son, you may
not see or even hear them."

"Does Nevill see or hear?" asked Stephen.

"As much as Aunt Caroline does, if the truth were known," answered her nephew. "Only she couldn't
be happy unless she had a grievance. Here she wanted to choose an original and suitable one,
so she hit upon ghosts--the ghosts of slaves murdered by a cruel master."

"Hit upon them, indeed!" she echoed indignantly, making her knitting needles click, a movement
which displayed her pretty, miniature hands, half hidden in lace ruffles. "As if they hadn't
gone through enough, in flesh and blood, poor creatures! Some of them may have been my countrymen,
captured on the seas by those horrid pirates."

"Who was the cruel master?" Stephen wanted to know, still smiling, because it was almost impossible
not to smile at Lady MacGregor.

"Not my brother James, I'm glad to say," she quickly replied. "It was about three hundred years
before his time. And though he had some quite irritating tricks as a young man, murdering slaves
wasn't one of them. To be sure, they tell strange tales of him here, as I make no doubt Nevill
has already mentioned, because he's immoral enough to be proud of what he calls the romance.
I mean the story of the beautiful Arab lady, whom James is supposed to have stolen from her
rightful husband--that is, if an Arab can be rightful--and hidden in this house far many a
year, till at last she died, after the search for her had long, long gone by."

"You're as proud of the romance as I am, or you wouldn't be at such pains to repeat it to everybody,
pretending to think I've already told it," said Nevill. "But I'm going to show Knight his quarters.
Pretty or plain, there are no ghosts here that will hurt him. And then we'll have lunch, for
which he's starving."

Stephen's quarters consisted of a bedroom (furnished in Tunisian style, with an imposing four-poster
of green and gold ornamented with a gilded, sacred cow under a crown) and a sitting room gay
with colourful decorations imported from Morocco. These rooms opened upon a wide covered balcony
screened by a carved wooden lattice and from the balcony Stephen could look over hills, near
and far, dotted with white villas that lay like resting gulls on the green wave of verdure
which cascaded down to join the blue waves of the sea. Up from that far blueness drifted on
the wind a murmurous sound like Æolian harps, mingled with the tinkle of fairy mandolins in
the fountain of the court below.

At luncheon, in a dining-room that opened on to a white-walled garden where only lilies of
all kinds grew, to Stephen's amazement two Highlanders in kilts stood behind his hostess's
chair. They were young, exactly alike, and of precisely the same height, six foot two at least.
"No, you are not dreaming them, Mr. Knight," announced Lady MacGregor, evidently delighted
with the admiring surprise in the look he bestowed upon these images. "And you're quite right.
They are twins. I may as well break it to you now, as I had to do to Nevill when he invited
me to come to Algiers and straighten out his housekeeping accounts: they play Ruth to my Naomi.
Whither I go, they go also, even to the door of the bathroom, where they carry my towels, for
I have no other maid than they."

Stephen could not help glancing at the two giants, expecting to see some involuntary quiver
of eye or nostril answer electrically to this frank revelation of their office; but their countenances
(impossible to think of as mere faces) remained expressionless as if carved in stone. Lady
MacGregor took nothing from Mohammed and the other Kabyle servant who waited on Nevill and
Stephen. Everything for her was handed to one of the Highlanders, who gravely passed on the
dish to their mistress. If she refused a plat favoured by them, instead of carrying it away,
the giants in kilts silently but firmly pressed it upon her acceptance, until in self-defence
she seized some of the undesired food, and ate it under their watchful eyes.

During the meal a sudden thunderstorm boiled up out of the sea: the sky became a vast brazen
bowl, and a strange, coppery twilight bleached the lilies in the white garden to a supernatural
pallor. The room, with its embroidered Moorish hangings, darkened to a rich gloom; but Mohammed
touched a button on the wall, and all the quaint old Arab lamps that stood in corners, or hung
suspended from the cedar roof, flashed out cunningly concealed electric lights. At the same
moment, there began a great howling outside the door. Mohammed sprang to open it, and in poured
a wave of animals. Stephen hastily counted five dogs; a collie, a white deerhound, a Dandy
Dinmont, and a mother and child of unknown race, which he afterwards learned was Kabyle, a
breed beloved of mountain men and desert tent-dwellers. In front of the dogs bounded a small
African monkey, who leaped to the back of Nevill's chair, and behind them toddled with awkward
grace a baby panther, a mere ball of yellow silk.

"They don't like the thunder, poor dears," Nevill apologised. "That's why they howled, for
they're wonderfully polite people really. They always come at the end of lunch. Aunt Caroline
won't invite them to dinner, because then she sometimes wears fluffy things about which she
has a foolish vanity. The collie is Angus's. The deerhound is Hamish's. The dandy is hers.
The two Kabyles are Mohammed's, and the flotsam and jetsam is mine. There's a great deal more
of it out of doors, but this is all that gets into the dining-room except by accident. And
I expect you think we are a very queer family."

Stephen did think so, for never till now had he been a member of a household where each of
the servants was allowed to possess any animals he chose, and flood the house with them. But
the queerer he thought the family, the better he found himself liking it. He felt a boy let
out of school after weeks of disgrace and punishment, and, strangely enough, this old Arab
palace, in a city of North Africa seemed more like home to him than his London flat had seemed
of late.

When Lady MacGregor rose and said she must write the note she had promised Nevill to send Miss
Ray, Stephen longed to kiss her. This form of worship not being permitted, he tried to open
the dining-room door for her to go out, but Angus and Hamish glared upon him so superciliously
that he retired in their favour.

The luncheon hour, even when cloaked in the mysterious gloom of a thunderstorm, is no time
for confidences; besides, it is not conducive to sustained conversation to find a cold nose
in your palm, a baby claw up your sleeve, or a monkey hand, like a bit of leather, thrust down
your collar or into your ear. But after dinner that night, when Lady MacGregor had trailed
her maligned "fluffiness" away to the drawing-room, and Nevill and Stephen had strolled with
their cigarettes out into the unearthly whiteness of the lily garden, Stephen felt that something
was coming. He had known that Nevill had a story to tell, by and by, and though he knew also
that he would be asked no questions in return, now or ever, it occurred to him that Nevill's
offer of confidences was perhaps meant to open a door, if he chose to enter by it. He was not
sure whether he would so choose or not, but the fact that he was not sure meant a change in
him. A few days ago, even this morning, before meeting Nevill, he would have been certain that
he had nothing intimate to tell Caird or any one else.

They strolled along the paths among the lilies. Moon and sky and flowers and white-gravelled
paths were all silver. Stephen thought of Victoria Ray, and wished she could see this garden.
He thought, too, that if she would only dance here among the lilies in the moonlight, it would
be a vision of exquisite loveliness.

"For a moment white, then gone forever," he caught himself repeating again.

It was odd how, whenever he saw anything very white and of dazzling purity, he thought of this
dancing girl. He wondered what sort of woman it was whose image came to Nevill's mind, in the
garden of lilies that smelt so heavenly sweet under the moon. He supposed there must always
be some woman whose image was suggested to every man by all that was fairest in nature. Margot
Lorenzi was the woman whose image he must keep in his mind, if he wanted to know any faint
imitation of happiness in future. She would like this moonlit garden, and in one way it would
suit her as a background. Yet she did not seem quite in the picture, despite her beauty. The
perfume she loved would not blend with the perfume of the lilies.

"Aunt Caroline's rather a dear, isn't she?" remarked Nevill, apropos of nothing.

"She's a jewel," said Stephen.

"Yet she isn't the immediate jewel of my soul. I'm hard hit, Stephen, and the girl won't have
me. She's poorer than any church or other mouse I ever met, yet she turns up her little French
nose at me and my palace, and all the cheese I should like to see her nibble--my cheese."

"Her French nose?" echoed Stephen.

"Yes. Her nose and the rest of her's French, especially her dimples. You never saw such dimples.
Miss Ray's prettier than my girl, I suppose. But I think mine's beyond anything. Only she isn't
and won't be mine that's the worst of it."

"Where is she?" Stephen asked. "In Algiers?"

"No such luck. But her sister is. I'll take you to see the sister to-morrow morning. She may
be able to tell us something to help Miss Ray. She keeps a curiosity-shop, and is a connoisseur
of Eastern antiquities, as well as a great character in Algiers, quite a sort of queen in her
way--a quaint way. All the visiting Royalties of every nation drop in and spend hours in her
place. She has a good many Arab acquaintances, too. Even rich chiefs come to sell, or buy things
from her, and respect her immensely. But my girl--I like to call her that--is away off in the
west, close to the border of Morocco, at Tlemcen. I wish you were interested in mosques, and
I'd take you there. People who care for such things sometimes travel from London or Paris just
to see the mosque of Sidi Bou-Medine and a certain Mirab. But I suppose you haven't any fad
of that kind, eh?"

"I feel it coming on," said Stephen.

"Good chap! Do encourage the feeling. I'll lend you books, lots of books, on the subject. She's
'malema,' or mistress of an école indigène for embroideries and carpets, at Tlemcen. Heaven
knows how few francs a month she earns by the job which takes all her time and life, yet she
thinks herself lucky to get it. And she won't marry me."

"Surely she must love you, at least a little, if you care so much for her," Stephen tried to
console his friend.

"Oh, she does, a lot," replied Nevill with infinite satisfaction. "But, you see--well, you
see, her family wasn't up to much from a social point of view--such rot! The mother came out
from Paris to be a nursery governess, when she was quite young, but she was too pretty for
that position. She had various but virtuous adventures, and married a non-com. in the Chasseurs
d'Afrique, who chucked the army for her. The two kept a little hotel. Then the husband died,
while the girls were children. The mother gave up the hotel and took in sewing. Everybody was
interested in the family, they were so clever and exceptional, and people helped in the girls'
education. When their mother became an invalid, the two contrived to keep her and themselves,
though Jeanne was only eighteen then, and Josette, my girl, fifteen. She's been dead now for
some years--the mother. Josette is nearly twenty-four. Do you see why she won't marry me? I'm
hanged if I do."

"I can see what her feeling is," Stephen said. "She must be a ripping girl."

"I should say she is!--though as obstinate as the devil. Sometimes I could shake her and box
her ears. I haven't seen her for months now. She wouldn't like me to go to Tlemcen--unless
I had a friend with me, and a good excuse. I didn't know it could hurt so much to be in love,
though I was in once before, and it hurt too, rather. But that was nothing. For the woman had
no soul or mind, only her beauty, and an unscrupulous sort of ambition which made her want
to marry me when my uncle left me his money. She'd refused to do anything more serious than
flirt and reduce me to misery, until she thought I could give her what she wanted. I'd imagined
myself horribly in love, until her sudden willingness to take me showed me once for all what
she was. Even so, I couldn't cure the habit of love at first; but I had just sense enough to
keep out of England, where she was, for fear I should lose my head and marry her. My cure was
rather slow, but it was sure; and now I know that what I thought was love then wasn't love
at all. The real thing's as different as--as--a modern Algerian tile is from an old Moorish
one. I can't say anything stronger! That's why I cut England, to begin with, and after a while
my interests were more identified with France. Sometimes I go to Paris in the summer--or to
a little place in Dauphiny. But I haven't been back to England for eight years. Algeria holds
all my heart. In Tlemcen is my girl. Here are my garden and my beasts. Now you have my history
since Oxford days."

"You know something of my history through the papers," Stephen blurted out with a desperate
defiance of his own reserve.

"Not much of your real history, I think. Papers lie, and people misunderstand. Don't talk of
yourself unless you really want to. But I say, look here, Stephen. That woman I thought I cared
for--may I tell you what she was like? Somehow I want you to know. Don't think me a cad. I
don't mean to be. But--may I tell?"

"Of course. Why not?"

"She was dark and awfully handsome, and though she wasn't an actress, she would have made a
splendid one. She thought only of herself. I--there was a picture in a London paper lately
which reminded me of her--the picture of a young lady you know--or think you know. They--those
two--are of the same type. I don't believe either could make a man happy."

Stephen laughed--a short, embarrassed laugh. "Oh, happy!" he echoed. "After twenty-five we
learn not to expect happiness. But--thank you for--everything, and especially for inviting
me here." He knew now why it had occurred to Nevill to ask him to Algiers. Nevill had seen
Margot's picture. In silence they walked towards the open door of the dining-room. Somewhere
not far away the Kabyle dogs were barking shrilly. In the distance rose and fell muffled notes
of strange passion and fierceness, an Arab tom-tom beating like the heart of the conquered
East, away in the old town.

Stephen's short-lived gaiety was struck out of his soul.

"For a moment white, then gone forever."

He pushed the haunting words out of his mind. He did not want them to have any meaning. They
had no meaning.

It seemed to him that the perfume of the lilies was too heavy on the air.

X

A white peacock, screaming in the garden under Stephen's balcony, waked him early, and dreamily
his thoughts strayed towards the events planned for the day.

They were to make a morning call on Mademoiselle Soubise in her curiosity-shop, and ask about
Ben Halim, the husband of Saidee Ray. Victoria was coming to luncheon, for she had accepted
Lady MacGregor's invitation. Her note had been brought in last night, while he and Nevill walked
in the garden. Afterwards Lady MacGregor had shown it to them both. The girl wrote an interesting
hand, full of individuality, and expressive of decision. Perhaps on her arrival they might
have something to tell her.

This hope shot Stephen out of bed, though it was only seven, and breakfast was not until nine.
He had a cold bath in the private bathroom, which was one of Nevill's modern improvements in
the old house, and by and by went for a walk, thinking to have the gardens to himself. But
Nevill was there, cutting flowers and whistling tunefully. It was to him that the jewelled
white peacock had screamed a greeting.

"I like cutting the flowers myself," said he. "I don't think they care to have others touch
them, any more than a cow likes to be milked by a stranger. Of course they feel the difference!
Why, they know when I praise them, and preen themselves. They curl up when they're scolded,
or not noticed, just as I do when people aren't nice to me. Every day I send off a box of my
best roses to Tlemcen. She allows me to do that."

Lady MacGregor did not appear at breakfast, which was served on a marble loggia; and by half-past
nine Stephen and Nevill were out in the wide, tree-shaded streets, where masses of bougainvillæa
and clematis boiled over high garden-walls of old plaster, once white, now streaked with gold
and rose, and green moss and lichen. After the thunderstorm of the day before, the white dust
was laid, and the air was pure with a curious sparkling quality.

They passed the museum in its garden, and turned a corner.

"There's Mademoiselle Soubise's shop," said Nevill.

It was a low white building, and had evidently been a private house at one time. The only change
made had been in the shape and size of the windows on the ground-floor; and these were protected
by green persiennes, fanned out like awnings, although the house was shaded by magnolia trees.
There was no name over the open door, but the word "Antiquités" was painted in large black
letters on the house-wall.

Under the green blinds was a glitter of jewels displayed among brocades and a tangle of old
lace, or on embossed silver trays; and walking in at the door, out of the shadowy dusk, a blaze
of colour leaped to the eyes. Not a soul was there, unless some one hid and spied behind a
carved and gilded Tunisian bed or a marqueterie screen from Bagdad. Yet there was a collection
to tempt a thief, and apparently no precaution taken against invaders.

Delicate rugs, soft as clouds and tinted like opals, were heaped in piles on the tiled floor;
rugs from Ispahan, rugs from Mecca; old rugs from the sacred city of Kairouan, such as are
made no more there or anywhere. The walls were hung with Tunisian silks and embroidered stuffs
from the homes of Jewish families, where they had served as screens for talismanic words too
sacred to be seen by common eyes; and there was drapery of ancient banners, Tyrian-dyed, whose
gold or silver fringes had been stained with blood, in battle. From the ceiling were suspended
antique lamps, and chandeliers of rare rock crystal, whose prisms gave out rose and violet
sparks as they caught the light.

On shelves and inlaid tables were beggars' bowls of strange dark woods, carried across deserts
by wandering mendicants of centuries ago, the chains, which had hung from throats long since
crumbled into dust, adorned with lucky rings and fetishes to preserve the wearer from evil
spirits. There were other bowls, of crystal pure as full-blown bubbles, bowls which would ring
at a tap like clear bells of silver. Some of these were guiltless of ornament, some were graven
with gold flowers, but all seemed full of lights reflected from tilted, pearl-framed mirrors,
and from the swinging prisms of chandeliers.

Chafing-dishes of bronze at which vanished hands had been warmed, stood beside chased brazen
ewers made to pour rose-water over henna-stained fingers, after Arab dinners, eaten without
knives or forks. In the depths of half-open drawers glimmered precious stones, strangely cut
pink diamonds, big square turquoises and emeralds, strings of creamy pearls, and hands of Fatma,
a different jewel dangling from each finger-tip.

The floor was encumbered, not only with rugs, but with heaps of priceless tiles, Persian and
Moorish, of the best periods and patterns, taken from the walls of Arab palaces now destroyed;
huge brass salvers; silver anklets, and chain armour, sabres captured from Crusaders, and old
illuminated Korans. It was difficult to move without knocking something down, and one stepped
delicately in narrow aisles, to avoid islands of piled, precious objects. Everywhere the eye
was drawn to glittering points, or patches of splendid colour; so that at a glance the large,
dusky room was like a temple decorated with mosaics. There was nothing that did not suggest
the East, city or desert, or mountain village of the Kabyles; and the air was loaded with Eastern
perfumes, ambergris and musk that blended with each other, and the scent of the black incense
sticks brought by caravan from Tombouctou.

"Why doesn't some one come in and steal?" asked Stephen, in surprise at seeing the place deserted.

"Because there's hardly a thief in Algiers mean enough to steal from Jeanne Soubise, who gives
half she has to the poor. And because, if there were one so mean, Haroun el Raschid would soon
let her know what was going on," said Nevill. "His latest disguise is that of a parrot, but
he may change it for something else at any moment."

Then Stephen saw, suspended among the crystal chandeliers and antique lamps, a brass cage,
shaped like a domed palace. In this cage, in a coral ring, sat a grey parrot who regarded the
two young men with jewel-eyes that seemed to know all good and evil.

"He yells if any stranger comes into the shop when his mistress is out," Nevill explained.
"I am an humble friend of His Majesty's, so he says nothing. I gave him to Mademoiselle Jeanne."

Perhaps their voices had been heard. At all events, there was a light tapping of heels on unseen
stairs, and from behind a red-curtained doorway appeared a tall young woman, dressed in black.

She was robust as well as tall, and Stephen thought she looked rather like a handsome Spanish
boy; yet she was feminine enough in her outlines. It was the frank and daring expression of
her face and great black eyes which gave the look of boyishness. She had thick, straight eyebrows,
a large mouth that was beautiful when she smiled, to show perfect teeth between the red lips
that had a faint, shadowy line of down above them.

"Ah, Monsieur Nevill Caird!" she exclaimed, in English, with a full voice, and a French accent
that was pretty, though not Parisian. She smiled at Stephen, too, without waiting to be introduced.
"Monsieur Caird is always kind in bringing his friends to me, and I am always glad to see them."

"I've brought Mr. Knight, not to buy, but to ask a favour," said Nevill.

"To buy, too," Stephen hastened to cut in. "I see things I can't live without. I must own them."

"Well, don't set your heart on anything Mademoiselle Soubise won't sell. She bought everything
with the idea of selling it, she admits, but now she's got them here, there are some things
she can't make up her mind to part with at any price."

"Oh, only a few tiles--and some Jewish embroideries--and bits of jewellery--and a rug or two
or a piece of pottery--and maybe one copy of the Koran, and a beggar's bowl," Jeanne Soubise
excused herself, hastily adding more and more to her list of exceptions, as her eyes roved
wistfully among her treasures. "Oh, and an amphora just dug up near Timgad, with Roman oil
still inside. It's a beauty. Will you come down to the cellar to look at it?"

Nevill thanked her, and reserved the pleasure for another time. Then he inquired what was the
latest news from Mademoiselle Josette at Tlemcen; and when he heard that there was nothing
new, he told the lady of the curiosity-shop what was the object of the early visit.

"But of course I have heard of Ben Halim, and I have seen him, too," she said; "only it was
long ago--maybe ten years. Yes, I could not have been seventeen. It is already long that he
went away from Algiers, no one knows where. Now he is said to be dead. Have you not heard of
him, Monsieur Nevill? You must have. He lived at Djenan el Hadj; close to the Jardin d'Essai.
You know the place well. The new rich Americans, Madame Jewett and her daughter, have it now.
There was a scandal about Ben Halim, and then he went away--a scandal that was mysterious,
because every one talked about it, yet no one knew what had happened--never surely at least."

"I told you Mademoiselle would be able to give you information!" exclaimed Nevill. "I felt
sure the name was familiar, somehow, though I couldn't think how. One hears so many Arab names,
and generally there's a 'Ben' or a 'Bou' something or other, if from the South."

"Flan-ben-Flan," laughed Jeanne Soubise. "That means," she explained, turning to Stephen, "So
and So, son of So and So. It is strange, a young lady came inquiring about Ben Halim only yesterday
afternoon; such a pretty young lady. I was surprised, but she said they had told her in her
hotel I knew everything that had ever happened in Algiers. A nice compliment to my age. I am
not so old as that! But," she added, with a frank smile, "all the hotels and guides expect
commissions when they send people to me. I suppose they thought this pretty girl fair game,
and that once in my place she would buy. So she did. She bought a string of amber beads. She
liked the gold light in them, and said it seemed as if she might see a vision of something
or some one she wanted to find, if she gazed through the beads. Many a good Mussulman has said
his prayers with them, if that could bring her luck."

The two young men looked at one another.

"Did she tell you her name?" Stephen asked.

"But yes; she was Mees Ray, and named for the dead Queen Victoria of England, I suppose, though
American. And she told me other things. Her sister, she said, married a Captain Ben Halim of
the Spahis, and came with him to Algiers, nearly ten years ago. Now she is looking for the sister."

"We've met Miss Ray," said Nevill. "It's on her business we've come. We didn't know she'd already
been to you, but we might have guessed some one would send her. She didn't lose much time."

"She wouldn't," said Stephen. "She isn't that kind."

"I knew nothing of the sister," went on Mademoiselle Soubise. "I could hardly believe at first
that Ben Halim had an American wife. Then I remembered how these Mohammedan men can hide their
women, so no one ever knows. Probably no one ever did know, otherwise gossip would have leaked
out. The man may have been jealous of her. You see, I have Arab acquaintances. I go to visit
ladies in the harems sometimes, and I hear stories when anything exciting is talked of. You
can't think how word flies from one harem to another--like a carrier-pigeon! This could never
have been a matter of gossip--though it is true I was young at the time."

"You think, then, he would have shut her up?" asked Nevill. "That's what I feared."

"But of course he would have shut her up--with another wife, perhaps."

"Good Heavens!" exclaimed Stephen. "The poor child has never thought of that possibility. She
says he promised her sister he would never look at any other woman."

"Ah, the promise of an Arab in love! Perhaps she did not know the Arabs--that sister. It is
only the men of princely families who take but one wife. And he would not tell her if he had
already looked at another woman. He would be sure, no matter how much in love a Christian girl
might be, she would not marry a man who already had a wife."

"We might find out that," suggested Stephen.

"It would be difficult," said the Frenchwoman. "I can try, among Arabs I know, but though they
like to chat with Europeans, they will not answer questions. They resent that we should ask
them, though they are polite. As for you, if you ask men, French or Arab, you will learn nothing.
The French would not know. The Arabs, if they did, would not tell. They must not talk of each
other's wives, even among themselves, much less to outsiders. You can ask an Arab about anything
else in the world, but not his wife. That is the last insult."

"What a country!" Stephen ejaculated.

"I don't know that it has many more faults than others," said Nevill, defending it, "only they're
different."

"But about the scandal that drove Ben Halim away?" Stephen ventured on.

"Strange things were whispered at the time, I remember, because Ben Halim was a handsome man
and well known. One looked twice at him in his uniform when he went by on a splendid horse.
I believe he had been to Paris before the scandal. What he did afterwards no one can say. But
I could not tell Mees Ray what I had heard of that scandal any more than I would tell a young
girl that almost all Europeans who become harem women are converted to the religion of Islam,
and that very likely the sister wasn't Ben Halim's first wife."

"Can you tell us of the scandal, or--would you rather not talk of the subject?" Stephen hesitated.

"Oh, I can tell you, for it would not hurt your feelings. People said Ben Halim flirted too
much with his Colonel's beautiful French wife, who died soon afterwards, and her husband killed
himself. Ben Halim had not been considered a good officer before. He was too fond of pleasure,
and a mad gambler; so at last it was made known to him he had better leave the army of his
own accord if he did not wish to go against his will; at least, that was the story."

"Of course!" exclaimed Nevill. "It comes back to me now, though it all happened before I lived
in Algiers. Ben Halim sold his house and everything in it to a Frenchman who went bankrupt
soon after. It's passed through several hands since. I go occasionally to call on Mrs. Jewett
and her daughter."

"It is said they wish you would call oftener, Monsieur Caird."

Nevill turned red. Stephen thought he could understand, and hid a smile. No doubt Nevill was
a great "catch" in Algerian society. And he was in love with a teacher of Arab children far
away in Tlemcen, a girl "poor as a church mouse," who wouldn't listen to him! It was a quaint
world; as quaint in Africa as elsewhere.

"What did you tell Miss Ray?" Nevill hurried to ask.

"That Ben Halim had left Algiers nine years ago, and had never been heard of since. When I
saw she did not love his memory, I told her people believed him to be dead; and this rumour
might be true, as no news of him has ever come back. But she turned pale, and I was sorry I
had been so frank. Yet what would you? Oh, and I thought of one more thing, when she had gone,
which I might have mentioned. But perhaps there is nothing in it. All the rest of the day I
was busy with many customers, so I was tired at night, otherwise I would have sent a note to
her hotel. And this morning since six I have been hurrying to get off boxes and things ordered
by some Americans for a ship which sails at noon. But you will tell the young lady when you
see her, and that will be better than my writing, because sending a note would make it seem
too important. She might build hopes, and it would be a pity if they did explode."

Both men laughed a little at this ending of the Frenchwoman's sentence, but Stephen was more
impatient than Nevill to know what was to come next. He grudged the pause, and made her go on.

"It is only that I remember my sister telling me, when she was at home last year for a holiday,
about a Kabyle servant girl who waits on her in Tlemcen. The girl is of a great intelligence,
and my sister takes an interest in her. Josette teaches her many things, and they talk. Mouni--that
is the Kabyle's name--tells of her home life to my sister. One thing she did was to serve a
beautiful foreign lady in the house of a rich Arab. She was only a child then, not more than
thirteen, for such girls grow up early; but she has always thought about that lady, who was
good to her, and very sad. Mouni told Josette she had never seen any one so beautiful, and
that her mistress had hair of a natural colour, redder than hair dyed with henna and powdered
with gold dust. It was this describing of the hair which brought the story back to my head
when Miss Ray had gone, because she has hair like that, and perhaps her sister had it too."

"By Jove, we'll run over to Tlemcen in the car, and see that Kabyle girl," Nevill eagerly proposed,
carefully looking at his friend, and not at Jeanne Soubise. But she raised her eyebrows, then
drew them together, and her frank manner changed. With that shadow of a frown, and smileless
eyes and lips, there was something rather formidable about the handsome young woman.

"Mees Ray may like to manage all her own beesiness," she remarked. And it occurred to Stephen
that it would be a propitious moment to choose such curios as he wished to buy. In a few moments
Mademoiselle Soubise was her pleasant self again, indicating the best points of the things
he admired, and giving him their history.

"There's apparently a conspiracy of silence to keep us from finding out anything about Miss
Ray's sister as Ben Halim's wife," he said to Nevill when they had left the curiosity-shop.
"Also, what has become of Ben Halim."

"You'll learn that there's always a conspiracy of silence in Africa, where Arabs are concerned,"
Nevill answered. There was a far-off, fatal look in his eyes as he spoke, those blue eyes which
seemed at all times to see something that others could not see. And again the sense of an intangible,
illusive, yet very real mystery of the East, which he had felt for a moment before landing,
oppressed Stephen, as if he had inhaled too much smoke from the black incense of Tombouctou.

XI

Stephen and Nevill Caird were in the cypress avenue when Victoria Ray drove up in a ramshackle
cab, guided by an Arab driver who squinted hideously. She wore a white frock which might have
cost a sovereign, and had probably been made at home. Her wide brimmed hat was of cheap straw,
wound with a scarf of thin white muslin; but her eyes looked out like blue stars from under
its dove-coloured shadow, and a lily was tucked into her belt. To both young men she seemed
very beautiful, and radiant as the spring morning.

"You aren't superstitious, engaging a man with a squint," said Nevill.

"Of course not," she laughed. "As if harm could come to me because the poor man's so homely!
I engaged him because he was the worst looking, and nobody else seemed to want him."

They escorted her indoors to Lady MacGregor, and Stephen wondered if she would be afraid of
the elderly fairy with the face of a child and the manner of an autocrat. But she was not in
the least shy; and indeed Stephen could hardly picture the girl as being self-conscious in
any circumstances. Lady MacGregor took her in with one look; white hat, red hair, blue eyes,
lily at belt, simple frock and all, and--somewhat to Stephen's surprise, because she was to
him a new type of old lady--decided to be charmed with Miss Ray.

Victoria's naïve admiration of the house and gardens delighted her host and hostess. She could
not be too much astonished at its wonders to please them, and, both being thoroughbred, they
liked her the better for saying frankly that she was unused to beautiful houses. "You can't
think what this is like after school in Potterston and cheap boarding-houses in New York and
London," she said, laughing when the others laughed.

Stephen was longing to see her in the lily-garden, which, to his mind, might have been made
for her; and after luncheon he asked Lady MacGregor if he and Nevill might show it to Miss Ray.

The garden lay to the east, and as it was shadowed by the house in the afternoon, it would
not be too hot.

"Perhaps you won't mind taking her yourself," said the elderly fairy. "Just for a few wee minutes
I want Nevill. He is to tell me about accepting or refusing some invitations. I'll send him
to you soon."

Stephen was ashamed of the gladness with which he could not help hearing this proposal. He
had nothing to say to the girl which he might not say before Nevill, or even before Lady MacGregor,
yet he had been feeling cheated because he could not be alone with Victoria, as on the boat.

"Gather Miss Ray as many lilies as she can carry away," were Nevill's parting instructions.
And it was exactly what Stephen had wished for. He wanted to give her something beautiful and
appropriate, something he could give with his own hands. And he longed to see her holding masses
of white lilies to her breast, as she walked all white in the white lily-garden. Now, too,
he could tell her what Mademoiselle Soubise had said about the Kabyle girl, Mouni. He was sure
Nevill wouldn't grudge his having that pleasure all to himself. Anyway he could not resist
the temptation to snatch it.

He began, as soon as they were alone together in the garden, by asking her what she had done,
whether she had made progress; and it seemed that she retired from his questions with a vague
suggestion of reserve she had not shown on the ship. It was not that she answered unwillingly,
but he could not define the difference in her manner, although he felt that a difference existed.

It was as if somebody might have been scolding her for a lack of reserve; yet when he inquired
if she had met any one she knew, or made acquaintances, she said no to the first question,
and named only Mademoiselle Soubise in reply to the second.

That was Stephen's opportunity, and he began to tell of his call at the curiosity-shop. He
expected Victoria to cry out with excitement when he came to Mouni's description of the beautiful
lady with "henna-coloured, gold-powdered hair"; but though she flushed and her breath came
and went quickly as he talked, somehow the girl did not appear to be enraptured with a new
hope, as he had expected.

"My friend Caird proposes that he and I should motor to Tlemcen, which it seems is near the
Moroccan border, and interview Mouni," he said. "We may be able to make sure, when we question
her, that it was your sister she served; and perhaps we can pick up some clue through what
she lets drop, as to where Ben Halim took his wife when he left Algiers--though, of course,
there are lots of other ways to find out, if this should prove a false clue."

"You are both more than good," Victoria answered, "but I mustn't let you go so far for me.
Perhaps, as you say, I shall be able to find out in other ways, from some one here in Algiers.
It does sound as if it might be my sister the maid spoke of to Mademoiselle Soubise. How I
should love to hear Mouni talk!--but you must wait, and see what happens, before you think
of going on a journey for my sake."

"If only there were some woman to take you, you might go with us," said Stephen, more eagerly
than he was aware, and thinking wild thoughts about Lady MacGregor as a chaperon, or perhaps
Mademoiselle Soubise--if only she could be persuaded to leave her beloved shop, and wouldn't
draw those black brows of hers together as though tabooing a forbidden idea.

"Let's wait--and see," Victoria repeated. And this patience, in the face of such hope, struck
Stephen as being strange in her, unlike his conception of the brave, impulsive nature, ready
for any adventure if only there were a faint flicker of light at the end. Then, as if she did
not wish to talk longer of a possible visit to Tlemcen, Victoria said: "I've something to show
you: a picture of my sister."

The white dress was made without a collar, and was wrapped across her breast like a fichu which
left the slender white stem of her throat uncovered. Now she drew out from under the muslin
folds a thin gold chain, from which dangled a flat, open-faced locket. When she had unfastened
a clasp, she handed the trinket to Stephen. "Saidee had the photograph made specially for me,
just before she was married," the girl explained, "and I painted it myself. I couldn't trust
any one else, because no one knew her colouring. Of course, she was a hundred times more beautiful
than this, but it gives you some idea of her, as she looked when I saw her last."

The face in the photograph was small, not much larger than Stephen's thumb-nail, but every
feature was distinct, not unlike Victoria's, though more pronounced; and the nose, seen almost
in profile, was perfect in its delicate straightness. The lips were fuller than Victoria's,
and red as coral. The eyes were brown, with a suggestion of coquetry absent in the younger
girl's, and the hair, parted in the middle and worn in a loose, wavy coil, appeared to be of
a darker red, less golden, more auburn.

"That's exactly Saidee's colouring," repeated Victoria. "Her lips were the reddest I ever saw,
and I used to say diamonds had got caught behind her eyes. Do you wonder I worshipped her--that
I just couldn't let her go out of my life forever?"

"No, I don't wonder. She's very lovely," Stephen agreed. The coquetry in the eyes was pathetic
to him, knowing the beautiful Saidee's history.

"She was eighteen then. She's twenty-eight now. Saidee twenty-eight! I can hardly realize it.
But I'm sure she hasn't changed, unless to grow prettier. I used always to think she would."
Victoria took back the portrait, and gazed at it. Stephen was sorry for the child. He thought
it more than likely that Saidee had changed for the worse, physically and spiritually, even
mentally, if Mademoiselle Soubise were right in her surmises. He was glad she had not said
to Victoria what she had said to him, about Saidee having to live the life of other harem women.

"I bought a string of amber beads at that curiosity-shop yesterday," the girl went on, "because
there's a light in them like what used to be in Saidee's eyes. Every night, when I've said
my prayers and am ready to go to sleep, I see her in that golden silence I told you about,
looking towards the west--that is, towards me, too, you know; with the sun setting and streaming
right into her eyes, making that jewelled kind of light gleam in them, which comes and goes
in those amber beads. When I find her, I shall hold up the beads to her eyes in the sunlight
and compare them."

"What is the golden silence like?" asked Stephen. "Do you see more clearly, now that at last
you've come to Africa?"

"I couldn't see more clearly than I did before," the girl answered slowly, looking away from
him, through the green lace of the trees that veiled the distance. "Yet it's just as mysterious
as ever. I can't guess yet what it can be, unless it's in the desert. I just see Saidee, standing
on a large, flat expanse which looks white. And she's dressed in white. All round her is a
quivering golden haze, wave after wave of it, endless as the sea when you're on a ship. And
there's silence--not one sound, except the beating which must be my own heart, or the blood
that sings in my ears when I listen for a long time--the kind of singing you hear in a shell.
That's all. And the level sun shining in her eyes, and on her hair."

"It is a picture," said Stephen.

"Wherever Say was, there would always be a picture," Victoria said with the unselfish, unashamed
pride she had in her sister.

"How I hope Saidee knows I'm near her," she went on, half to herself. "She'd know that I'd
come to her as soon as I could--and she may have heard things about me that would tell her
I was trying to make money enough for the journey and everything. If I hadn't hoped she might
see the magazines and papers, I could never have let my photograph be published. I should have
hated that, if it hadn't been for the thought of the portraits coming to her eyes, with my
name under them; 'Victoria Ray, who is dancing in such and such a place.' She would know why
I was doing it; dancing nearer and nearer to her."

"You darling!" Stephen would have liked to say. But only as he might have spoken caressingly
to a lovely child whose sweet soul had won him. She seemed younger than ever to-day, in the
big, drooping hat, with the light behind her weaving a gold halo round her hair and the slim
white figure, as she talked of Saidee in the golden silence. When she looked up at him, he
thought that she was like a girl-saint, painted on a background of gold. He felt very tender
over her, very much older than she, and it did not occur to him that he might fall in love
with this young creature who had no thought for anything in life except the finding of her sister.

A tiny streak of lily-pollen had made a little yellow stain on the white satin of her cheek,
and under her blue eyes were a few faint freckles, golden as the lily-pollen. He had seen them
come yesterday, on the ship, in a bright glare of sunlight, and they were not quite gone yet.
He had a foolish wish to touch them with his finger, to see if they would rub off, and to brush
away the lily-pollen, though it made her skin look pure as pearl.

"You are an inspiration!" was all he said.

"I? But how do you mean?" she asked.

He hardly knew that he had spoken aloud; yet challenged, he tried to explain. "Inspiration
to new life and faith in things," he answered almost at random. But hearing the words pronounced
by his own voice, made him realize that they were true. This child, of whose existence he had
not known a week ago, could give him--perhaps was already giving him--new faith and new interests.
He felt thankful for her, somehow, though she did not belong to him, and never would--unless
a gleam of sunshine can belong to one on whom it shines. And he would always associate her
with the golden sunshine and the magic charm of Algeria.

"I told you I'd given you half my star," she said, laughing and blushing a little.

"Which star is it?" he wanted to know. "When I don't see you any more, I can look up and hitch
my thought-wagon to Mars or Venus."

"Oh, it's even grander than any planet you can see, with your real eyes. But you can look at
the evening star if you like. It's so thrilling in the sunset sky, I sometimes call it my star."

"All right," said Stephen, with his elder-brother air. "And when I look I'll think of you."

"You can think of me as being with Saidee at last."

"You have the strongest presentiment that you'll find her without difficulty."

"When I say 'presentiment,' I mean creating a thing I want, making a picture of it happening,
so it has to happen by and by, as God made pictures of this world, and all the worlds, and
they came true."

"By Jove, I wish I could go to school to you!" Stephen said this laughing; but he meant every
word. She had just given him two new ideas. He wondered if he could do anything with them.
Yet no; his life was cut out on a certain plan. It must now follow that plan.

"If you should have any trouble--not that you will--but just 'if,' you know," he went on, "and
if I could help you, I want you to remember this, wherever you are and whatever the trouble
may be; there's nothing I wouldn't do for you--nothing. There's no distance I wouldn't travel."

"Why, you're the kindest man I ever met!" Victoria exclaimed, gratefully. "And I think you
must be one of the best."

"Good heavens, what a character to live up to!" laughed Stephen. Nevertheless he suddenly lost
his sense of exaltation, and felt sad and tired, thinking of life with Margot, and how difficult
it would be not to degenerate in her society.

"Yes. It's a good character. And I'll promise to let you know, if I'm in any trouble and need
help. If I can't write, I'll call, as I said yesterday."

"Good. I shall hear you over the wireless telephone." They both laughed; and Nevill Caird,
coming out of the house was pleased that Stephen should be happy.

It had occurred to him while helping his aunt with the invitations, that something of interest
to Miss Ray might be learned at the Governor's house. He knew the Governor more or less, in
a social way. Now he asked Victoria if she would like him to make inquiries about Ben Halim's
past as a Spahi?

"I've already been to the Governor," replied Victoria. "I got a letter to him from the American
Consul, and had a little audience with him--is that what I ought to call it?--this morning.
He was kind, but could tell me nothing I didn't know--any way, he would tell nothing more.
He wasn't in Algiers when Saidee came. It was in the day of his predecessor."

Nevill admired her promptness and energy, and said so. He shared Stephen's chivalrous wish
to do something for the girl, so alone, so courageous, working against difficulties she had
not begun to understand. He was sorry that he had had no hand in helping Victoria to see the
most important Frenchman in Algiers, a man of generous sympathy for Arabs; but as he had been
forestalled, he hastened to think of something else which he might do. He knew the house Ben
Halim had owned in Algiers, the place which must have been her sister's home. The people who
lived there now were acquaintances of his. Would she like to see Djenan el Hadj?

The suggestion pleased her so much that Stephen found himself envying Nevill her gratitude.
And it was arranged that Mrs. Jewett should be asked to appoint an hour for a visit next day.

XII

While Victoria was still in the lily-garden with her host and his friend, the cab which she
had ordered to return came back to fetch her. It was early, and Lady MacGregor had expected
her to stop for tea, as most people did stop, who visited Djenan el Djouad for the first time,
because every one wished to see the house; and to see the house took hours. But the dancing-girl,
appearing slightly embarrassed as she expressed her regrets, said that she must go; she had
to keep an engagement. She did not explain what the engagement was, and as she betrayed constraint
in speaking of it, both Stephen and Nevill guessed that she did not wish to explain. They took
it for granted that it was something to do with her sister's affairs, something which she considered
of importance; otherwise, as she had no friends in Algiers, and Lady MacGregor was putting
herself out to be kind, the girl would have been pleased to spend an afternoon with those to
whom she could talk freely. No questions could be asked, though, as Lady MacGregor remarked
when Victoria had gone (after christening the baby panther), it did seem ridiculous that a
child should be allowed to make its own plans and carry them out alone in a place like Algiers,
without having any advice from its elders.

"I've been, and expect to go on being, what you might call a perpetual chaperon," said she
resignedly; "and chaperoning is so ingrained in my nature that I hate to see a baby running
about unprotected, doing what it chooses, as if it were a married woman, not to say a widow.
But I suppose it can't be stopped."

"She's been on the stage," said Nevill reassuringly, Miss Ray having already broken this hard
fact to the Scotch lady at luncheon.

"I tell you it's a baby! Even John Knox would see that," sharply replied Aunt Caroline.

There was nothing better to do with the rest of the afternoon, Nevill thought, than to take
a spin in the motor, which they did, the chauffeur at the wheel, as Nevill confessed himself
of too lazy a turn of mind to care for driving his own car. While Stephen waited outside, he
called at Djenan el Hadj (an old Arab house at a little distance from the town, buried deep
in a beautiful garden), but the ladies were out. Nevill wrote a note on his card, explaining
that his aunt would like to bring a friend, whose relatives had once lived in the house; and
this done, they had a swift run about the beautiful country in the neighbourhood of Algiers.

It was dinner-time when they returned, and meanwhile an answer had come from Mrs. Jewett. She
would be delighted to see any friend of Lady MacGregor's, and hoped Miss Ray might be brought
to tea the following afternoon.

"Shall we send a note to her hotel, or shall we stroll down after dinner?" asked Nevill.

"Suppose we stroll down," Stephen decided, trying to appear indifferent, though he was ridiculously
pleased at the idea of having a few unexpected words with Victoria.

"Good. We might take a look at the Kasbah afterward," said Nevill. "Night's the time when it's
most mysterious, and we shall be close to the old town when we leave Miss Ray's hotel."

Dinner seemed long to Stephen. He could have spared several courses. Nevertheless, though they
sat down at eight, it was only nine when they started out. Up on the hill of Mustapha Supérieur,
all was peaceful under the moonlight; but below, in the streets of French shops and cafés,
the light-hearted people of the South were ready to begin enjoying themselves after a day of
work. Streams of electric light poured from restaurant windows, and good smells of French cooking
filtered out, as doors opened and shut. The native cafés were crowded with dark men smoking
chibouques, eating kous-kous, playing dominoes, or sipping absinthe and golden liqueurs which,
fortunately not having been invented in the Prophet's time, had not been forbidden by him.
Curio shops and bazaars for native jewellery and brasswork were still open, lit up with pink
and yellow lamps. The brilliant uniforms of young Spahis and Zouaves made spots of vivid colour
among the dark clothes of Europeans, tourists, or employés in commercial houses out for amusement.
Sailors of different nations swung along arm in arm, laughing and ogling the handsome Jewesses
and painted ladies from the Levant or Marseilles. American girls just arrived on big ships
took care of their chaperons and gazed with interest at the passing show, especially at the
magnificent Arabs who appeared to float rather than walk, looking neither to right nor left,
their white burnouses blowing behind them. The girls stared eagerly, too, at the few veiled
and swathed figures of native women who mingled with the crowd, padding timidly with bare feet
thrust into slippers. The foreigners mistook them no doubt for Arab ladies, not knowing that
ladies never walk; and were but little interested in the old, unveiled women with chocolate-coloured
faces, who begged, or tried to sell picture-postcards. The arcaded streets were full of light
and laughter, noise of voices, clatter of horses' hoofs, carriage-wheels, and tramcars, bells
of bicycles and horns of motors. The scene was as gay as any Paris boulevard, and far more
picturesque because of the older, Eastern civilization in the midst of, though never part of,
an imported European life--the flitting white and brown figures, like thronging ghosts outnumbering
the guests at a banquet.

Stephen and Nevill Caird went up the Rue Bab-el-Oued, leading to the old town, and so came
to the Hotel de la Kasbah, where Victoria Ray was staying. It looked more attractive at night,
with its blaze of electricity that threw out the Oriental colouring of some crude decorations
in the entrance-hall, yet the place appeared less than ever suited to Victoria.

An Arab porter stood at the door, smoking a cigarette. His fingers were stained with henna,
and he wore an embroidered jacket which showed grease-spots and untidy creases. It was with
the calmest indifference he eyed the Englishmen, as Nevill inquired in French for Miss Ray.

The question whether she were "at home" was conventionally put, for it seemed practically certain
that she must be in the hotel. Where could she, who had no other friends than they, and no
chaperon, go at night? It was with blank surprise, therefore, that he and Stephen heard the
man's answer. Mademoiselle was out.

"I don't believe it," Stephen muttered in English, to Nevill.

The porter understood, and looked sulky. "I tell ze troot," he persisted. "Ze gentlemens no
believe, zay ask some ozzer."

They took him at his word, and walked past the Arab into the hotel. A few Frenchmen and Spaniards
of inferior type were in the hall, and at the back, near a stairway made of the cheapest marble,
was a window labelled "Bureau." Behind this window, in a cagelike room, sat the proprietor
at a desk, adding up figures in a large book. He was very fat, and his chins went all the way
round his neck in grooves, as if his thick throat might pull out like an accordion. There was
something curiously exotic about him, as there is in persons of mixed races; an olive pallor
of skin, an oiliness of black hair, and a jetty brightness of eye under heavy lids.

This time it was Stephen who asked for Miss Ray; but he was given the same answer. She had
gone out.

"You are sure?"

"Mais, oui, monsieur."

"Has she been gone long?" Stephen persisted, feeling perplexed and irritated, as if something
underhand were going on.

"Of that I cannot tell," returned the hotel proprietor, still in guttural French. "She left
word she would not be at the dinner."

"Did she say when she would be back?"

"No, monsieur. She did not say."

"Perhaps the American Consul's family took pity on her, and invited her to dine with them,"
suggested Nevill.

"Yes," Stephen said, relieved. "That's the most likely thing, and would explain her engagement
this afternoon."

"We might explore the Kasbah for an hour, and call again, to inquire."

"Let us," returned Stephen. "I should like to know that she's got in all right."

Five minutes later they had left the noisy Twentieth Century behind them, and plunged into
the shadowy silence of a thousand years ago.

The change could not have been more sudden and complete if, from a gaily lighted modern street,
full of hum and bustle, they had fallen down an oubliette into a dark, deserted fairyland.
Just outside was the imported life of Paris, but this old town was Turkish, Arab, Moorish,
Jewish and Spanish; and in Algeria old things do not change.

After all, the alley was not deserted, though it was soundless as a tomb save for a dull drumming
somewhere behind thick walls. They were in a narrow tunnel, rather than a street, between houses
that bent towards each other, their upper stories supported by beams. There was no electric
light, scarcely any light at all save a strip of moonshine, fine as a line of silver inlaid
in ebony, along the cobbled way which ascended in steps, and a faint glimmer of a lamp here
and there in the distance, a lamp small and greenish as the pale spark of a glow-worm. As they
went up, treading carefully, forms white as spirits came down the street in heelless babouches
that made no more noise than the wings of a bat. These forms loomed vague in the shadow, then
took shape as Arab men, whose eyes gleamed under turbans or out from hoods.

Moving aside to let a cloaked figure go by, Stephen brushed against the blank wall of a house,
which was cold, sweating dampness like an underground vault. No sun, except a streak at midday,
could ever penetrate this tunnel-street.

So they went on from one alley into another, as if lost in a catacomb, or the troubling mazes
of a nightmare. Always the walls were blank, save for a deep-set, nail-studded door, or a small
window like a square dark hole. Yet in reality, Nevill Caird was not lost. He knew his way
very well in the Kasbah, which he never tired of exploring, though he had spent eight winters
in Algiers. By and by he guided his friend into a street not so narrow as the others they had
climbed, though it was rather like the bed of a mountain torrent, underfoot. Because the moon
could pour down a silver flood it was not dark, but the lamps were so dull that the moonlight
seemed to put them out.

Here the beating was as loud as a frightened heart. The walls resounded with it, and sent out
an echo. More than one nailed door stood open, revealing a long straight passage, with painted
walls faintly lighted from above, and a curtain like a shadow, hiding the end. In these passages
hung the smoky perfume of incense; and from over tile-topped walls came the fragrance of roses
and lemon blossoms, half choked with the melancholy scent of things old, musty and decayed.
Beautiful pillars, brought perhaps from ruined Carthage, were set deeply in the whitewashed
walls, looking sad and lumpy now that centuries of chalk-coats had thickened their graceful
contours. But to compensate for loss of shape, they were dazzling white, marvellous as columns
of carved pearl in the moonlight, they and their surrounding walls seeming to send out an eerie,
bleached light of their own which struck at the eye. The uneven path ran floods of moonlight;
and from tiny windows in the leaning snow-palaces--windows like little golden frames--looked
out the faces of women, as if painted on backgrounds of dull yellow, emerald-green, or rose-coloured
light.

They were unveiled women, jewelled like idols, white and pink as wax-dolls, their brows drawn
in black lines with herkous, their eyes glittering between bluish lines of kohl, their lips
poppy-red with the tint of mesouak, their heads bound in sequined nets of silvered gauze, and
crowned with tiaras of gold coins. The windows were so small that the women were hidden below
their shoulders, but their huge hoop-earrings flashed, and their many necklaces sent out sparks
as they nodded, smiling, at the passers; and one who seemed young and beautiful as a wicked
fairy, against a purple light, threw a spray of orange blossoms at Stephen's feet.

Then, out of that street of muffled music, open doors, and sequined idols, the two men passed
to another where, in small open-air cafés, bright with flaring torches or electric light squatting
men smoked, listening to story-tellers; and where, further on, Moorish baths belched out steam
mingled with smells of perfume and heated humanity. So, back again to black tunnels, where
the blind walls heard secrets they would never tell. The houses had no eyes, and the street
doors drew back into shadow.

"Do you wonder now," Nevill asked, "that it's difficult to find out what goes on in an Arab's
household?"

"No," said Stephen. "I feel half stifled. It's wonderful, but somehow terrible. Let's get out
of this 'Arabian Nights' dream, into light and air, or something will happen to us, some such
things as befell the Seven Calendars. We must have been here an hour. It's time to inquire
for Miss Ray again. She's sure to have come in by now."

Back they walked into the Twentieth Century. Some of the lights in the hotel had been put out.
There was nobody in the hall but the porter, who had smoked his last cigarette, and as no one
had given him another, he was trying to sleep in a chair by the door.

Mademoiselle might have come in. He did not know. Yes, he could ask, if there were any one
to ask, but the woman who looked after the bedrooms had an evening out. There was only one
femme de chambre, but what would you? The high season was over. As for the key of Mademoiselle,
very few of the clients ever left their keys in the bureau when they promenaded themselves.
It was too much trouble. But certainly, he could knock at the door of Mademoiselle, if the
gentlemen insisted, though it was now on the way to eleven o'clock, and it would be a pity
to wake the young lady if she were sleeping.

"Knock softly. If she's awake, she'll hear you," Stephen directed. "If she's asleep, she won't."

The porter went lazily upstairs, appearing again in a few minutes to announce that he had obeyed
instructions and the lady had not answered. "But," he added, "one would say that an all little
light came through the keyhole."

"Brute, to look!" mumbled Stephen. There was, however, nothing more to be done. It was late,
and they must take it for granted that Miss Ray had come home and gone to bed.

XIII

That night Stephen dreamed troubled dreams about Victoria. All sorts of strange things were
happening behind a locked door, he never quite knew what, though he seemed forever trying to
find out. In the morning, before he was dressed, Mahommed brought a letter to his door; only
one, on a small tray. It was the first letter he had received since leaving London--he, who
had been used to sighing over the pile that heaped up with every new post, and must presently
be answered.

He recognized the handwriting at a glance, though he had seen it only once, in a note written
to Lady MacGregor. The letter was from Victoria, and was addressed to "Mr. Stephen Knight,"
in American fashion--a fashion unattractive to English eyes. But because it was Victoria's
way, it seemed to Stephen simple and unaffected, like herself. Besides, she was not aware that
he had any kind of handle to his name.

"Now I shall know where she was last night," he said to himself, and was about to tear open
the envelope, when suddenly the thought that she had touched the paper made him tender in his
usage of it. He found a paper-knife and with careful precision cut the envelope along the top.
The slight delay whetted his eagerness to read what Victoria had to tell. She had probably
heard of the visit which she had missed, and had written this letter before going to bed. It
was a sweet thought of the girl's to be so prompt in explaining her absence, guessing that
he must have suffered some anxiety.

     "DEAR MR. KNIGHT,"

he read, the blood slowly mounting to his face as his eyes travelled from line to line,

     "I don't know what you will think of me when I have told you about
     the thing I am going to do. But whatever you may think, don't think
     me ungrateful. Indeed, indeed I am not that. I hate to go away
     without seeing you again, yet I must; and I can't even tell you
     why, or where I am going--that is the worst. But if you could know
     why, I'm almost sure you would feel that I am doing the right
     thing, and the only thing possible. Before all and above all with
     me, must be my sister's good. Everything else has to be sacrificed
     to that, even things that I value very, very much.

     "Don't imagine though, from what I say, that I'm making a great
     sacrifice, so far as any danger to myself is concerned. The
     sacrifice is, to risk being thought unkind, ungrateful, by you, and
     of losing your friendship. This is the only danger I am running,
     really; so don't fear for me, and please forgive me if you can.
     Just at the moment I must seem (as well as ungracious) a little
     mysterious, not because I want to be mysterious, but because it is
     forced on me by circumstances. I hate it, and soon I hope I shall
     be able to be as frank and open with you as I was at first, when I
     saw how good you were about taking an interest in my sister Saidee.
     I think, as far as I can see ahead, I may write to you in a
     fortnight. Then, I shall have news to tell, the best of news, I
     hope; and I won't need to keep anything back. By that time I may
     tell you all that has happened, since bidding you and Mr. Caird
     good-bye, at the door of his beautiful house, and all that will
     have happened by the time I can begin the letter. How I wish it
     were now!

     "There's just one more word I want to say, that I really can say
     without doing harm to anybody or to any plan. It's this. I did feel
     so guilty when you talked about your motoring with Mr. Caird to
     Tlemcen. It was splendid of you both to be willing to go, and you
     must have thought me cold and half-hearted about it. But I couldn't
     tell you what was in my mind, even then. I didn't know what was
     before me; but there was already a thing which I had to keep from
     you. It was only a small thing. But now it has grown to be a very
     big one.

     "Good-bye, my dear friend Mr. Knight. I like to call you my friend,
     and I shall always remember how good you were to me, if, for any
     reason, we should never see each other again. It is very likely we
     may not meet, for I don't know how long you are going to stay in
     Africa, or how long I shall stay, so it may be that you will go
     back to England soon. I don't suppose I shall go there. When I can
     leave this country it will be to sail for America with my
     sister--never without her. But I shall write, as I said, in a
     fortnight, if all is well--indeed, I shall write whatever happens.
     I shall be able to give you an address, too, I hope very much,
     because I should like to hear from you. And I shall pray that you
     may always be happy.

     "I meant this to be quite a short letter, but after all it is a
     long one! Good-bye again, and give my best remembrances to Lady
     MacGregor and Mr. Caird, if they are not disgusted with me for the
     way I am behaving. Gratefully your friend,

                                                         "VICTORIA RAY."

There was no room for any anger against the girl in Stephen's heart. He was furious, but not
with her. And he did not know with whom to be angry. There was some one--there must be some
one--who had persuaded her to take this step in the dark, and this secret person deserved all
his anger and more. To persuade a young girl to turn from the only friends she had who could
protect her, was a crime. Stephen could imagine no good purpose to be served by mystery, and
he could imagine many bad ones. The very thought of the best among them made him physically
sick. There was a throat somewhere in the world which his fingers were tingling to choke; and
he did not know where, or whose it was. It made his head ache with a rush of beating blood
not to know. And realizing suddenly, with a shock like a blow in the face, the violence of
his desire to punish some person unknown, he saw how intimate a place the girl had in his heart.
The longing to protect her, to save her from harm or treachery, was so intense as to give pain.
He felt as if a lasso had been thrown round his body, pressing his lungs, roping his arms to
his sides, holding him helpless; and for a moment the sensation was so powerful that he was
conscious of a severe effort, as if to break away from the spell of a hypnotist.

It was only for a moment that he stood still, though a thousand thoughts ran through his head,
as in a dream--as in the dreams of last night, which had seemed so interminable.

The thing to do was to find out at once what had become of Victoria, whom she had seen, who
had enticed her to leave the hotel. It would not take long to find out these things. At most
she could not have been gone more than thirteen or fourteen hours.

At first, in his impatience, he forgot Nevill. In two or three minutes he had finished dressing,
and was ready to start out alone when the thought of his friend flashed into his mind. He knew
that Nevill Caird, acquainted as he was with Algiers, would be able to suggest things that
he might not think of unaided. It would be better that they two should set to work together,
even though it might mean a delay of a few minutes in the beginning.

He put Victoria's letter in his pocket, meaning to show it to Nevill as the quickest way of
explaining what had happened and what he wanted to do; but before he had got to his friend's
door, he knew that he could not bear to show the letter. There was nothing in it which Nevill
might not see, nothing which Victoria might not have wished him to see. Nevertheless it was
now his letter, and he could not have it read by any one.

He knocked at the door, but Nevill did not answer. Then Stephen guessed that his friend must
be in the garden. One of the under-gardeners, working near the house, had seen the master,
and told the guest where to go. Monsieur Caird was giving medicine to the white peacock, who
was not well, and in the stable-yard Nevill was found, in the act of pouring something down
the peacock's throat with a spoon.

When he heard what Stephen had to say, he looked very grave.

"I wish Miss Ray hadn't stopped at that hotel," he said.

"Why?" Stephen asked sharply. "You don't think the people there----"

"I don't know what to think. But I have a sort of idea the brutes knew something last night
and wouldn't tell."

"They'll have to tell!" exclaimed Stephen.

Nevill did not answer.

"I shall go down at once," Stephen went on.

"Of course I'll go with you," said his friend.

They had forgotten about breakfast. Stopping only to get their hats, they started for the town.

XIV

"Don't begin by accusing the landlord of anything," Nevill advised, at the hotel door. "He's
got too much Arab blood in him to stand that. You'd only make him tell you lies. We must seem
to know things, and ask questions as if we expected him to confirm our knowledge. That may
confuse him if he wants to lie. He won't be sure what ground to take."

The Arab porter was not in his place, but the proprietor sat in his den behind the window.
He was drinking a cup of thick, syrupy coffee, and soaking a rusk in it. Stephen thought this
a disgusting sight, and could hardly bear to let his eyes rest on the thick rolls of fat that
bulged over the man's low collar, all the way round his neck like a yellow ruff. Not trusting
himself to speak just then, Stephen let Caird begin the conversation.

The landlord bowed over his coffee and some letters he was reading, but did not trouble to
do more than half rise from his chair and sink back again, solidly. These fine gentlemen would
never be clients of his, would never be instrumental in sending any one to him. Why should
he put himself out?

"We've had a letter from Miss Ray this morning," Nevill announced, after a perfunctory exchange
of "good days" in French.

The two young men both looked steadily at the proprietor of the hotel, as Nevill said these
words. The fat man did not show any sign of embarrassment, however, unless his expectant gaze
became somewhat fixed, in an effort to prevent a blink. If this were so, the change was practically
imperceptible. "She had left here before six o'clock last evening, hadn't she?"

"I cannot tell you, Monsieur. It is as I answered yesterday. I do not know the time when she
went out."

"You must know what she said when she went."

"On the contrary, Monsieur. The young lady did not speak with me herself. She sent a message."

"And the message was that she was leaving your hotel?"

"First of all, that she had the intention of dining out. With a lady."

Stephen and Nevill looked at each other. With a lady? Could it be possible that Mademoiselle
Soubise, interested in the story, had called and taken the girl away?

"What then?" went on Caird. "She let you know eventually that she'd made up her mind to go
altogether?"

"The message was that she might come back in some days. But yes, Monsieur, she let me know
that for the present she was leaving."

"Yet you didn't tell us this when we called!" exclaimed Stephen. "You let us think she would
be back later in the evening."

"Pardon me, Monsieur, if you remember, you asked when Mademoiselle would be back. I replied
that I did not know. It was perfectly true. And desolated as I was to inconvenience you, I
could not be as frank as my heart prompted. My regrettable reserve was the result of Mademoiselle's
expressed wish. She did not desire to have it known that she was leaving the hotel, until she
herself chose to inform her friends. As it seems you have had a letter, Monsieur, I can now
speak freely. Yesterday evening I could not."

He looked like the last man whose heart would naturally prompt him to frankness, but it seemed
impossible to prove, at the moment, that he was lying. It was on the cards that Miss Ray might
have requested silence as to her movements.

Stephen bit his lip to keep back an angry reproach, nevertheless, and Caird reflected a moment
before answering. Then he said slowly; "Look here: we are both friends of Miss Ray, the only
ones she has in Algiers, except of course my aunt, Lady MacGregor, with whom she lunched yesterday.
We are afraid she has been imprudently advised by some one, as she is young and inexperienced
in travelling. Now, if you will find out from your servants, and also let us know from your
own observation, exactly what she did yesterday, after returning from her visit to my aunt--what
callers she had, if any; to whose house she went, and so on--we will make it worth your while.
Lady MacGregor" (he made great play with his relative's name, as if he wished the landlord
to understand that two young men were not the girl's only friends in Algiers) "is very anxious
to see Miss Ray. To spare her anxiety, we offer a reward of a thousand francs for reliable
information. But we must hear to-day, or to-morrow at latest."

As he evolved this proposal, Nevill and Stephen kept their eyes upon the man's fat face. He
looked politely interested, but not excited, though the offer of a thousand francs was large
enough to rouse his cupidity, it would seem, if he saw his way to earning it.

He shrugged his shoulders with a discouraged air when Nevill finished.

"I can tell you now, Monsieur, all that I know of Mademoiselle's movements--all that anybody
in the hotel knows, I think. No one came to see her, except yourselves. She was out all the
morning of yesterday, and did not return here till sometime after the déjeuner. After that,
she remained in her room until towards evening. It was the head-waiter who brought me the message
of which I have told you, and requested the bill. At what hour the young lady actually went
out, I do not know. The porter can probably tell you."

"But her luggage," Stephen cut in quickly. "Where did it go? You can at least tell that?"

"Mademoiselle's luggage is still in the hotel. She asked permission to store it, all but a
dressing-bag of some sort, which, I believe she carried with her."

"In a cab?"

"That I do not know. It will be another question for the porter. But were I in the place of
Monsieur and his friend, I should have no uneasiness about the young lady. She is certain to
have found trustworthy acquaintances, for she appeared to be very sensible."

"We shall be glad if you will let us have a short talk with several of your servants," said
Nevill--"the femme de chambre who took care of Miss Ray's room, and the waiter who served her,
as well as the porter."

"Certainly, Monsieur. They shall be brought here," the landlord assented. "I will help you
by questioning them myself."

"I think we'll do that without your help, thank you," replied Stephen drily.

The fat man looked slightly less agreeable, but touched a bell in the wall by his desk. A boy
answered and was sent to command Angéle and Ahmed to report at once. Also he was to summon
the porter, whether that man had finished his breakfast or not. These orders given, Monsieur
Constant looked at the two Englishmen as if to say, "You see! I put my whole staff at your
disposition. Does not this prove my good faith? What would you have more?"

Angéle was Algerian French, evidently of mixed parentage, like all those in the Hotel de la
Kasbah who were not Arabs. She was middle-aged, with a weary, hatchet face, and eyes from which
looked a crushed spirit. If Stephen and Nevill could have seen Madame Constant, they would
hardly have wondered at that expression.

Ahmed had negro blood in his veins, and tried to smooth out the frizziness of the thick black
hair under his fez, with much pomatum, which smelled of cheap bergamot.

These two, with the porter who soon appeared, brushing breadcrumbs from his jacket, stood in
front of the bureau window, waiting to learn the purpose for which they had been torn from
their various occupations. "It is these gentlemen who have something to ask you. They do not
wish me to interfere," announced the master to his servants, with a gesture. He then turned
ostentatiously to the sipping of his neglected coffee.

Nevill undertook the cross-questionings, with occasional help from Stephen, but they learned
no detail of importance. Angéle said that she had been out when the demoiselle Americaine had
left the hotel; but that the luggage of Mademoiselle was still in her room. Ahmed had taken
a message to Monsieur le Patron, about the bill, and had brought back Mademoiselle's change,
when the note was paid. The porter had carried down a large dressing-bag, at what time he could
not be sure, but it was long before dark. He had asked if Mademoiselle wished him to call a
voiture, but she had said no. She was going out on foot, and would presently return in a carriage.
This she did. The porter believed it was an ordinary cab in which Mademoiselle had driven back,
but he had not thought much about it, being in a hurry as he took the bag. He was at least
certain that Mademoiselle had been alone. She had received no callers while she was in the
hotel, and had not been seen speaking to any one: but she had gone out a great deal. Why had
he not mentioned in the evening that the young lady had driven away with luggage? For the sufficient
reason that Mademoiselle had particularly requested him to say nothing of her movements, should
any one come to inquire. It was for the same reason that he had been obliged to deceive Monsieur
in the matter of knocking at her door. And as the porter made this answer, he looked far more
impudent than he had looked last night, though he was smiling blandly.

How much of this was lies and how much truth? Stephen wondered, when, having given up hope
of learning more from landlord or servants, they left the hotel.

Nevill had to confess that he was puzzled. "Their stories hold together well enough," he said,
"but if they have anything to hide (mind, I don't say they have) they're the sort to get up
their tale beforehand, so as to make it water-tight. We called last night, and that man Constant
must have known we'd come again, whether we heard from Miss Ray or whether we didn't--still
more, if we didn't. Easy as falling off a log to put the servants up to what he wanted them
to say, and prepare them for questions, without giving them tips under our noses."

"If they know anything that fat old swine doesn't want them to give away, we can bribe it out
of them," said Stephen, savagely. "Surely these Arabs and half-breeds love money."

"Yes, but there's something else they hold higher, most of them, I will say in their favour--loyalty
to their own people. If this affair has to do with Arabs, like as not we might offer all we've
got without inducing them to speak--except to tell plausible lies and send us farther along
the wrong track. It's a point of pride with these brown faces. Their own above the Roumis,
and I'm hanged if I can help respecting them for that, lies and all."

"But why should they lie?" broke out Stephen. "What can it be to them?"

"Nothing, in all probability," Nevill tried to soothe him. "The chances are, they've told us
everything they know, in good faith, and that they're just as much in the dark about Miss Ray's
movements as we are--without the clue we have, knowing as we do why she came to Algiers. It's
mysterious enough anyhow, what's become of her; but it's more likely than not that she kept
her own secret. You say she admitted in her letter having heard something which she didn't
mention to us when she was at my house; so she must have got a clue, or what she thought was
a clue, between the time when we took her from the boat to the Hotel de la Kasbah, and the
time when she came to us for lunch."

"It's simply hideous!" Stephen exclaimed. "The only way I can see now is to call in the police.
They must find out where that cab came from and where it took Miss Ray. That's the important
thing."

"Yes, to get hold of the cabman is the principal thing," said Nevill, without any ring of confidence
in his voice. "But till we learn the contrary, we may as well presume she's safe. As for the
police, for her sake they must be a last resort."

"Let's go at once and interview somebody. But there's one hope. She may have gone to Tlemcen
to see that Kabyle maid of Mademoiselle Soubise, for herself. Perhaps that's why she didn't
encourage us to motor there. She's jolly independent."

Nevill's face brightened. "When we've done what we can in Algiers, we might run there ourselves
in the car, just as I proposed before," he said eagerly. "If nothing came of it, we wouldn't
be wasting time, you know. She warned you not to expect news for a fortnight, so there's no
use hanging about here in hopes of a letter or telegram. We can go to Tlemcen and get back
inside five days. What do you say?"

What Stephen might have said was, that they could save the journey by telegraphing to Mademoiselle
Soubise to ask whether Miss Ray had arrived in Tlemcen. But the brightness in Nevill's eyes
and the hopefulness in his voice kept back the prosaic suggestion.

"I say, by all means let's go to Tlemcen," he answered. "To-morrow, after we've found out what
we can here about the cab, inquired at the railway stations and so on. Besides, we can at least
apply to the police for information about Ben Halim. If we learn he's alive, and where he is
living, it may be almost the same as knowing where Miss Ray has gone."

XV

Nothing could be heard of Victoria at any place of departure for ships, nor at the railway
stations. Stephen agreed with Nevill that it would not be fair to lay the matter in the hands
of the police, lest in some way the girl's mysterious "plan" should be defeated. But he could
not put out of his head an insistent idea that the Arab on board the Charles Quex might stand
for something in this underhand business. Stephen could not rest until he had found out the
name of this man, and what had become of him after arriving at Algiers. As for the name, having
appeared on the passenger list, it was easily obtained without expert help. The Arab was a
certain Sidi Maïeddine ben el Hadj Messaoud; and when Jeanne Soubise was applied to for information
concerning him, she was able to learn from her Arab friends that he was a young man of good
family, the son of an Agha or desert chief, whose douar lay far south, in the neighbourhood
of El-Aghouat. He was respected by the French authorities and esteemed by the Governor of Algiers.
Known to be ambitious, he was anxious to stand well with the ruling power, and among the dissipated,
sensuous young Arabs of his class and generation, he was looked upon as an example and a shining
light. The only fault found in him by his own people was that he inclined to be too modern,
too French in his political opinions; and his French friends found no fault with him at all.

It seemed impossible that a person so highly placed would dare risk his future by kidnapping
a European girl, and Jeanne Soubise advised Stephen to turn his suspicions in another direction.
Still he would not be satisfied, until he had found and engaged a private detective, said to
be clever, who had lately seceded from a Paris agency and set up for himself in Algiers. Through
him, Stephen hoped to learn how Sidi Maïeddine ben el Hadj Messaoud had occupied himself after
landing from the Charles Quex; but all he did learn was that the Arab, accompanied by his servant
and no one else, had, after calling on the Governor, left Algiers immediately for El-Aghouat.
At least, he had taken train for Bogharie, and was known to have affairs of importance to settle
between his father the Agha, and the French authorities. Secret inquiries at the Hotel de la
Kasbah elicited answers, unvaryingly the same. Sidi Maïeddine ben el Hadj Messaoud was not
a patron of the house, and had never been seen there. No one answering at all to his description
had stopped in, or even called at, the hotel.

Of course, the value of such assurances was negatived by the fact that Arabs hold together
against foreigners, and that if Si Maïeddine wished to be incognito among his own people, his
wish would probably be respected, in spite of bribery. Besides, he was rich enough to offer
bribes on his own part. Circumstantial evidence, however, being against the supposition that
the man had followed Victoria after landing, Stephen abandoned it for the time, and urged the
detective, Adolphe Roslin, to trace the cabman who had driven Miss Ray away from her hotel.
Roslin was told nothing about Victoria's private interests, but she was accurately described
to him, and he was instructed to begin his search by finding the squint-eyed cab-driver who
had brought the girl to lunch at Djenan el Djouad.

Only in the affair of Cassim ben Halim did Stephen and Nevill decide to act openly, Nevill
using such influence as he had at the Governor's palace. They both hoped to learn something
which in compassion or prudence had been kept from the girl; but they failed, as Victoria had
failed. If a scandal had driven the Arab captain of Spahis from the army and from Algiers,
the authorities were not ready to unearth it now in order to satisfy the curiosity, legitimate
or illegitimate, of two Englishmen.

Captain Cassim ben Halim el Cheik el Arab, had resigned from the army on account of ill-health,
rather more than nine years ago, and having sold his house in Algiers had soon after left Algeria
to travel abroad. He had never returned, and there was evidence that he had been burned to
death in a great fire at Constantinople a year or two later. The few living relatives he had
in Algeria believed him to be dead; and a house which Ben Halim had owned not far from Bou
Saada, had passed into the hands of his uncle, Caïd of a desert-village in the district. As
to Ben Halim's marriage with an American girl, nobody knew anything. The present Governor and
his staff had come to Algiers after his supposed death; and if Nevill suspected a deliberate
reticence behind certain answers to his questions, perhaps he was mistaken. Cassim ben Halim
and his affairs could now be of little importance to French officials.

It did not take Roslin an hour to produce the squinting cabman; but the old Arab was able to
prove that he had been otherwise engaged than in driving Miss Ray on the evening when she left
the Hotel de la Kasbah. His son had been ill, and the father had given up work in order to
play nurse. A doctor corroborated this story, and nothing was to be gained in that direction.

Then it was that Nevill almost timidly renewed his suggestion of a visit to Tlemcen. They could
find out by telegraphing Josette, he admitted, whether or no Victoria Ray had arrived, but
if she were not already in Tlemcen, she might come later, to see Mouni. And even if not, they
might find out how to reach Saidee, by catechizing the Kabyle girl. Once they knew the way
to Victoria's sister, it was next best to knowing the way to find Victoria herself. This last
argument was not to be despised. It impressed Stephen, and he consented at once to "try their
luck" at Tlemcen.

Early in the morning of the second day after the coming of Victoria's letter, the two men started
in Nevill's yellow car, the merry-eyed chauffeur charmed at the prospect of a journey worth
doing. He was tired, he remarked to Stephen, "de tous ces petits voyages d'une demi-heure,
comme les tristes promenades des enfants, sans une seule aventure."

They had bidden good-bye to Lady MacGregor, and most of the family animals, overnight, and
it was hardly eight o'clock when they left Djenan el Djouad, for the day's journey would be
long. A magical light, like the light in a dream, gilded the hills of the Sahel; and beyond
lay the vast plain of the Metidja, a golden bowl, heaped to its swelling rim of mountains with
the fairest fruits of Algeria.

The car rushed through a world of blossoms, fragrant open country full of flowers, and past
towns that did their small utmost to bring France into the land which France had conquered.
Boufarik, with its tall monument to a brave French soldier who fought against tremendous odds:
Blidah, a walled and fortified mixture of garrison and orange-grove, with a market-place like
a scene in the "Arabian Nights": Orleansville, modern and ostentatiously French, built upon
ruins of vast antiquity, and hotter than all other towns in the dry cup of the Chelif Valley:
Relizane, Perrégaux, and finally Oran (famed still for its old Spanish forts), which they reached
by moonlight.

Always there were fields embroidered round the edges with wild flowers of blue and gold, and
rose. Always there were white, dusty roads, along which other motors sometimes raced, but oftener
there were farm-carts, wagons pulled by strings of mules, and horses with horned harness like
the harness in Provence or on the Spanish border. There were huge, two-storied diligences,
too, drawn by six or eight black mules, crammed under their canvas roofs with white- or brown-robed
Arabs, and going very fast.

From Oran they might have gone on the same night, reaching the end of their journey after a
few hours' spin, but Nevill explained that haste would be vain. They could not see Mademoiselle
Soubise until past nine, so better sleep at Oran, start at dawn, and see something of the road,--a
road more picturesque than any they had travelled.

It was not for Stephen to offer objections, though he was in a mood which made him long to
push on without stopping, even though there were no motive for haste. He was ashamed of the
mood, however, and hardly understood what it meant, since he had come to Algeria in search
of peace. When first he landed, and until the day of Victoria's letter, he had been enormously
interested in the panorama of the East which passed before his eyes. He had eagerly noticed
each detail of colour and strangeness, but now, though the London lethargy was gone, in its
place had been born a disturbing restlessness which would not let him look impersonally at
life as at a picture.

Questioning himself as he lay awake in the Oran hotel, with windows open to the moonlight,
Stephen was forced to admit that the picture was blurred because Victoria had gone out of it.
Her figure had been in the foreground when first he had seen the moving panorama, and all the
rest had been only a magical frame for her. The charm of her radiant youth, and the romance
of the errand which had brought her knocking, when he knocked, at the door of the East, had
turned the glamour into glory. Now she had vanished; and as her letter said, it might be that
she would never come back. The centre of interest was transferred to the unknown place where
she had gone, and Stephen began to see that his impatience to be moving was born of the wish
not only to know that she was safe, but to see her again.

He was angry with himself at this discovery, and almost he was angry with Victoria. If he had
not her affairs to worry over, Africa would be giving him the rest cure he had expected. He
would be calmly enjoying this run through beautiful country, instead of chafing to rush on
to the end. Since, in all probability, he could do the girl no good, and certainly she could
do him none, he half wished that one or the other had crossed from Marseilles to Algiers on
a different ship. What he needed was peace, not any new and feverish personal interest in life.
Yes, decidedly he wished that he had never known Victoria Ray.

But the wish did not live long. Suddenly her face, her eyes, came before him in the night.
He heard her say that she would give him "half her star," and his heart grew sick with longing.

"I hope to Heaven I'm not going to love that girl," he said aloud to the darkness. If no other
woman came into his life, he might be able to get through it well enough with Margot. He could
hunt and shoot, and do other things that consoled men for lack of something better. But if--he
knew he must not let there be an "if." He must go on thinking of Victoria Ray as a child, a
charming little friend whom he wished to help. Any other thought of her would mean ruin.

Before dawn they were called, and started as the sun showed over the horizon.

So they ran into the western country, near to the Morocco border. Dull at first, save for its
flooding flowers, soon the way wound among dark mountains, from whose helmeted heads trailed
the long plumes of white cascades, and whose feet--like the stone feet of Egyptian kings in
ruined temples--were bathed by lakes that glimmered in the depths of gorges.

It was a land of legends and dreams round about Tlemcen, the "Key of the West," city of beautiful
mosques. The mountains were honeycombed with onyx mines; and rising out of wide plains were
crumbling brown fortresses, haunted by the ghosts of long-dead Arabs who had buried hoards
of money in secret hiding-places, and died before they could unearth their treasure. Tombs
of kings and princes, and koubbahs of renowned marabouts, Arab saints, gleamed white, or yellow
as old gold, under the faded silver of ancient olive trees, in fields that ran red with blood
of poppies. Minarets jewelled like peacocks' tails soared above the tops of blossoming chestnuts.
On low trees or bushes, guarding the graves of saints, fluttered many-coloured rags, left there
by faithful men and women who had prayed at the shrine for health or fortune; and for every
foot of ground there was some wild tale of war or love, an echo from days so long ago that
history had mingled inextricably with lore of fairies.

Nevill was excited and talkative as they drove into the old town, once the light of western
Algeria. They passed in by the gateway of Oran, and through streets that tried to be French,
but contrived somehow to be Arab. Nevill told stories of the days when Tlemcen had queened
it over the west, and coined her own money; of the marabouts after whom the most famous mosques
were named: Sidi-el-Haloui, the confectioner-saint from Seville, who preached to the children
and made them sweetmeats; of the lawyer-saint, Sidi Aboul Hassan from Arabia, and others. But
he did not speak of Josette Soubise, until suddenly he touched Stephen's arm as they passed
the high wall of a garden.

"There, that's where she teaches," he said; and it was not necessary to add a name.

Stephen glanced at him quickly. Nevill looked very young. His eyes no longer seemed to gaze
at far-away things which no one else could see. All his interests were centred near at hand.

"Don't you mean to stop?" Stephen asked, surprised that the car went on.

"No; school's begun. We'll have to wait till the noon interval, and even then we shan't be
allowed indoors, for a good many of the girls are over twelve, the age for veiling--hadjabah,
they call it--when they're shut up, and no man, except near relations, can see their faces.
Several of the girls are already engaged. I believe there's one, not fourteen, who's been divorced
twice, though she's still interested in dolls. Weird, isn't it? Josette will talk with us in
the garden. But we'll have time now to take rooms at the hotel and wash off the dust. To eat
something too, if you're hungry."

But Stephen was no hungrier than Nevill, whose excitement, perhaps, was contagious.

The hotel was in a wide place, so thickly planted with acacias and chestnut trees as to resemble
a shabby park. An Arab servant showed them to adjoining rooms, plain but clean, and a half-breed
girl brought tins of hot water and vases of syringas. As for roses, she said in hybrid French,
no one troubled about them--there were too many in Tlemcen. Ah! but it was a land of plenty!
The gentlemen would be happy, and wish to stay a long time. There was meat and good wine for
almost nothing, and beggars need not ask twice for bread--fine, white bread, baked as the Moors
baked, across the border.

As they bathed and dressed more carefully than they had dressed for the early-morning start,
strange sounds came up from the square below, which was full of people, laughing, quarrelling,
playing games, striking bargains, singing songs. Arab bootblacks clamoured for custom at the
hotel-door, pushing one another aside, fiercely. Little boys in embroidered green or crimson
jackets sat on the hard, yellow earth, playing an intricate game like "jack stones," and disputed
so violently that men and even women stopped to remonstrate, and separate them; now a grave,
prosperous Jew dressed in red (Jewish mourning in the province of Oran); then an old Kabyle
woman of the plains, in a short skirt of fiery orange scarcely hiding the thin sticks of legs
that were stained with henna half-way up the calves, like painted stockings. Moors from across
the frontier--fierce men with eagle faces and striped cloaks--grouped together, whispering
and gesticulating, stared at with suspicion by the milder Arabs, who attributed all the crimes
of Tlemcen to the wild men from over the border. Black giants from the Negro quarter kept together,
somewhat humble, yet laughing and happy. Slender, coffee-coloured youths drove miniature cows
from Morocco, or tiny black donkeys, heavily laden and raw with sores, colliding with well-dressed
Turks, who had the air of merchants, and looked as if they could not forget that Tlemcen had
long been theirs before the French dominion. Bored but handsome officers rode through the square
on Arab horses graceful as deer, and did not even glance at passing women, closely veiled in
long white haïcks.

It was lively and amusing in the sunlight; but just as the two friends were ready to go out,
the sky was swept with violet clouds. A storm threatened fiercely, but they started out despite
its warning, turning deaf ears to the importunities of a Koulougli guide who wished to show
them the mosques, "ver' cheap." He followed them, but they hurried on, pushing so sturdily
through a flock of pink-headed sheep, which poured in a wave over the pavement, that they might
have out-run the rain had they not been brought to a sudden standstill by a funeral procession.

It was the strangest sight Stephen had seen yet, and he hardly noticed that, in a burst of
sunlight, rain had begun to pelt down through the canopy of trees.

The band of figures in brown burnouses marched quickly, with a sharp rustling of many slippered
feet moving in unison, and golden spears of rain seemed to pierce the white turbans of the
men who carried the bier. As they marched, fifty voices rose and fell wildly in a stirring
chant, exciting and terrible as the beat-beat of a tom-tom, sometimes a shout of barbaric triumph,
sometimes a mourning wail. Then, abruptly, a halt was made in the glittering rain, and the
bearers were changed, because of the luck it brings Arab men to carry the corpse of a friend.

Just in front of the two Englishmen the body rested for an instant, stretched out long and
piteously flat, showing its thin shape through the mat of woven straw which wrapped it, only
the head and feet being wound with linen. So, by and by, it would be laid, without a coffin,
in its shallow grave in the Arab cemetery, out on the road to Sidi Bou-Medine.

There were but a few seconds of delay. Then the new bearers lifted the bier by its long poles,
and the procession moved swiftly, feverishly, on again, the wild chant trailing behind as it
passed, like a torn war-banner. The thrill of the wailing crept through Stephen's veins, and
roused an old, childish superstition which an Irish nurse had implanted in him when he was
a little boy. According to Peggy Brian it was "a cruel bad omen" to meet a funeral, especially
after coming into a new town. "Wait for a corpse," said she, "an' ye'll wait while yer luck
goes by."

"They're singing a song in praise of the dead man's good deeds, and of triumph for the joys
he'll know in Paradise," explained Nevill. "It's only the women who weep and scratch their
faces when those they love have died. The men rejoice, or try to. Soon, they are saying, this
one who has gone will be in gardens fair as the gardens of Allah Himself, where sit beautiful
houris, in robes woven of diamonds, sapphires, and rubies, each gem of which has an eye of
its own that glitters through a vapour of smouldering ambergris, while fountains send up pearly
spray in the shade of fragrant cedars."

"No wonder the Mohammedan poor don't fear death, if they expect to exchange their hovels for
such quarters," said Stephen. "I wish I understood Arabic."

"It's a difficult language to keep in your mind, and I don't know it well," Nevill answered.
"But Jeanne and Josette Soubise speak it like natives; and the other day when Miss Ray lunched
with us, I thought her knowledge of Arabic wonderful for a person who'd picked it up from books."

Stephen did not answer. He wished that Nevill had not brought the thought of Victoria into
his mind at the moment when he was recalling his old nurse's silly superstition. Victoria laughed
at superstitions, but he was not sure that he could laugh, in this barbaric land where it seemed
that anything might happen.

XVI

Nevill had not sent word to Josette Soubise that he was coming to see her. He wished to make
the experiment of a surprise, although he insisted that Stephen should be with him. At the
door in the high white wall of the school-garden, he asked an unveiled crone of a porteress
to say merely that two gentlemen had called.

"She'll suspect, I'm afraid," he muttered to Stephen as they waited, "even if her sister hasn't
written that I thought of turning up. But she won't have time to invent a valid excuse, if
she disapproves of the visit."

In three or four minutes the old woman hobbled back, shuffling slippered feet along the tiled
path between the gate and the low whitewashed house. Mademoiselle requested that ces Messieurs
would give themselves the pain of walking into the garden. She would descend almost at once.

They obeyed, Nevill stricken dumb by the thought of his coming happiness. Stephen would have
liked to ask a question or two about the school, but he refrained, sure that if Nevill were
forced into speech he would give random answers.

This was being in love--the real thing! And Stephen dimly envied his friend, even though Caird
seemed to have small hope of winning the girl. It was far better to love a woman you could
never marry, than to be obliged to marry one you could never love.

He imagined himself waiting to welcome Margot, beautiful Margot, returning from Canada to him.
He would have to go to Liverpool, of course. She would be handsomer than ever, probably, and
he could picture their meeting, seven or eight weeks from now. Would his face wear such an
expression as Nevill's wore at this moment? He knew well that it would not.

"She is coming!" said Nevill, under his breath.

The door of the schoolhouse was opening, and Nevill moved forward as a tall and charming young
woman appeared, like a picture in a dark frame.

She was slender, with a tiny waist, though her bust was full, and her figure had the intensely
feminine curves which artists have caused to be associated with women of the Latin races; her
eyes were like those of her elder sister, but larger and more brilliant. So big and splendid
they were that they made the smooth oval of her olive face seem small. Quantities of heavy
black hair rippled away from a forehead which would have been square if the hair had not grown
down in a point like a Marie Stuart cap. Her chin was pointed, with a deep cleft in the middle,
and the dimples Nevill had praised flashed suddenly into being, as if a ray of sunshine had
touched her pale cheeks.

"Mon bon ami!" she exclaimed, holding out both hands in token of comradeship, and putting emphasis
on her last word.

"She's determined the poor chap shan't forget they're only friends," thought Stephen, wishing
that Caird had not insisted upon his presence at this first meeting. And in a moment he was
being introduced to Mademoiselle Josette Soubise.

"Did I surprise you?" asked Nevill, looking at her as if he could never tear his eyes away,
though he spoke in an ordinary tone.

"Ah, I know you want me to say 'yes'," she laughed. "I'd like to tell a white fib, to please
you. But no, I am not quite surprised, for my sister wrote that you might come, and why. What
a pity you had this long journey for nothing. My Kabyle maid, Mouni, has just gone to her home,
far away in a little village near Michélet, in la Grande Kabylia. She is to be married to her
cousin, the chief's son, whom she has always loved--but there were obstacles till now."

"Obstacles can always be overcome," broke in Nevill.

Josette would not understand any hidden meaning. "It is a great pity about Mouni," she went
on. "Only four days ago she left. I gave her the price of the journey, for a wedding present.
She is a good girl, and I shall miss her. But of course you can write to ask her questions.
She reads a little French."

"Perhaps we shall go ourselves," Nevill answered, glancing at Stephen's disappointed face.
"For I know Miss Ray can't be here, or you would have said so."

"No, she is not here," echoed Josette, looking astonished. "Jeanne wrote about the American
young lady searching for her sister, but she did not say she might visit Tlemcen."

"We hoped she would, that's all," explained Nevill. "She's left her hotel in Algiers in a mysterious
way, not telling where she meant to go, although she assured us she'd be safe, and we needn't
worry. However, naturally we do worry."

"But of course. I see how it is." The dimples were gone, and the brightness of Josette's eyes
was overcast. She looked at Nevill wistfully, and a flash of sympathetic understanding enlightened
Stephen. No doubt she was generously solicitous for the fate of Victoria Ray, but there was
something different from solicitude in her darkening eyes.

"Good! she's jealous. She thinks Nevill's heart's been caught in the rebound," he told himself.
But Nevill remained modestly unconscious.

"Miss Ray may arrive yet," he suggested. "We'd better stop to-day, anyhow, on the chance; don't
you think so, Stephen? and then, if there's no news of her when we get back to Algiers, go
on to interview the bride in Grand Kabylia?"

Stephen had not the heart to dispute the wisdom of this decision, though he was sure that,
since Victoria was not in Tlemcen now, she would never come.

"So you think we've made a long journey for nothing, Mademoiselle Josette?" said Nevill.

"But yes. So it turns out."

"Seeing an old friend doesn't count, then?"

"Oh, well, that can seem but little--in comparison to what you hoped. Still, you can show Monsieur
Knight the sights. He may not guess how beautiful they are. Have you told him there are things
here as wonderful as in the Alhambra itself, things made by the Moors who were in Granada?"

"I've told him about all I care most for in Tlemcen," returned Nevill, with that boyish demureness
he affected sometimes. "But I'm not a competent cicerone. If you want Knight to do justice
to the wonders of this place, you'll have to be our guide. We've got room for several large-sized
chaperons in the car. Do come. Don't say you won't! I feel as if I couldn't stand it."

His tone was so desperate that Josette laughed some of her brightness back again. "Then I suppose
I mustn't refuse. And I should like going--after school hours. Madame de Vaux, who is the bride
of a French officer, will join us, I think, for she and I are friends, and besides, she has
had no chance to see things yet. She has been busy settling in her quarters--and I have helped
her a little."

"When can you start?" asked Nevill, enraptured at the prospect of a few happy hours snatched
from fate.

"Not till five."

His face fell. "But that's cruel!"

"It would be cruel to my children to desert them sooner. Don't forget I am malema--malema before
all. And there will be time for seeing nearly everything. We can go to Sidi Bou-Medine, afterwards
to the ruins of Mansourah by sunset. Meanwhile, show your friend the things near by, without
me; the old town, with its different quarters for the Jews, the Arabs, and the Negroes. He
will like the leather-workers and the bakers, and the weavers of haïcks. And you will not need
me for the Grande Mosquée, or for the Mosquée of Aboul Hassan, where Monsieur Knight will see
the most beautiful mihrab in all the world. When he has looked at that, he cannot be sorry
he has come to Tlemcen; and if he has regrets, Sidi Bou-Medine will take them away."

"Has Sidi Bou-Medine the power to cure all sorrows?" Stephen asked, smiling.

"Indeed, yes. Why, Sidi Bou-Medine himself is one of the greatest marabouts. You have but to
take a pinch of earth from his tomb, and make a wish upon it. Only one wish, but it is sure
to be granted, whatever it may be, if you keep the packet of earth afterwards, and wear it
near your heart."

"What a shame you never told me that before. The time I've wasted!" exclaimed Nevill. "But
I'll make up for it now. Thank Heaven I'm superstitious."

They had forgotten Stephen, and laughing into each other's eyes, were perfectly happy for the
moment. Stephen was glad, yet he felt vaguely resentful that they could forget the girl for
whose sake the journey to Tlemcen had ostensibly been undertaken. They were ready to squander
hours in a pretence of sightseeing, hours which might have been spent in getting back to Algiers
and so hastening on the expedition to Grand Kabylia. How selfish people in love could be! And
charming as Josette Soubise was, it seemed strange to Stephen that she should stand for perfection
to a man who had seen Victoria Ray.

Nevill was imploring Josette to lunch with them, chaperoned by Madame de Vaux, and Josette
was firmly refusing. Then he begged that they might leave money as a gift for the malema's
scholars, and this offer she accepted, only regretting that the young men could not be permitted
to give the cadeau with their own hands. "My girls are so pretty," she said, "and it is a picture
to see them at their embroidery frames, or the carpet making, their fingers flying, their eyes
always on the coloured designs, which are the same as their ancestresses used a century ago,
before the industry declined. I love them all, the dear creatures, and they love me, though
I am a Roumia and an unbeliever. I ought to be happy in their affection, helping them to success.
And now I must run back to my flock, or the lambs will be getting into mischief. Au revoir--five
o'clock. You will find me waiting with Madame de Vaux."

At luncheon, in the bare, cool dining-room of the hotel, Nevill was like a man in a dream.
He sat half smiling, not knowing what he ate, hardly conscious of the talk and laughter of
the French officers at another table. Just at the last, however, he roused himself. "I can't
help being happy. I see her so seldom. And I keep turning over in my mind what new arguments
in favour of myself I can bring forward when I propose this afternoon--for of course I shall
propose, if you and the bride will kindly give me the chance. I know she won't have me--but
I always do propose, on the principle that much dropping may wear away a stone."

"Suppose you break the habit just for once," ventured Stephen.

Nevill looked anxious. "Why, do you think the case is hopeless?"

"On the contrary. But--well, I can't help feeling it would do you more good to show an absorbing
interest in Miss Ray's affairs, this time."

"So I have an absorbing interest," Nevill protested, remorsefully. "I don't want you to suppose
I mean to neglect them. I assure you----"

Stephen laughed, though a little constrainedly. "Don't apologise, my dear fellow. Miss Ray's
no more to me than to you, except that I happened to make her acquaintance a few days sooner."

"I know," Nevill agreed, mildly. Then, after a pause, which he earnestly occupied in crumbling
bread. "Only I'm head over ears in love with another woman, while you're free to think of her,
or any other girl, every minute of the day."

Stephen's face reddened. "I am not free," he said in a low voice.

"I beg your pardon. I hoped you were. I still think--you ought to be." Nevill spoke quickly,
and without giving Stephen time to reply, he hurried on; "Miss Ray may arrive here yet. Or
she may have found out about Mouni in some other way, and have gone to see her in Grand Kabylia--who
knows?"

"If she were merely going there to inquire about her sister, why should she have to make a
mystery of her movements?"

"Well, it's on the cards that whatever she wanted to do, she didn't care to be bothered with
our troublesome advice and offers of help. Our interest was, perhaps, too pressing."

"Mademoiselle Soubise is of that opinion, anyhow--in regard to you," remarked Stephen.

"What--that angel jealous? It's too good to be true! But I'll relieve her mind of any such idea."

"If you'll take one more tip from me, I'd leave her mind alone for the present."

"Why, you flinty-hearted reprobate?"

"Well, I'm no authority. But all's fair in love and war. And sometimes an outsider sees features
of the game which the players don't see."

"That's true, anyhow," Nevill agreed. "Let's both remember that--eh?" and he got up from the
table abruptly, as if to keep Stephen from answering, or asking what he meant.

They had several empty hours, between the time of finishing luncheon, and five o'clock, when
they were to meet Mademoiselle Soubise and her chaperon, so they took Josette's advice and
went sightseeing.

Preoccupied as he was, Stephen could not be indifferent to the excursion, for Tlemcen is the
shrine of gems in Arab architecture, only equalled at Granada itself. Though he was so ignorant
still of eastern lore, that he hardly knew the meaning of the word mihrab, the arched recess
looking towards Mecca, in the Mosque of the lawyer-saint Aboul Hassan, held him captive for
many moments with its beauty. Its ornamentation was like the spread tail of Nevill's white
peacock, or the spokes of a silver wheel incrusted with an intricate pattern in jewels. Not
a mosque in town, or outside the gates, did they leave unvisited, lest, as Nevill said, Josette
Soubise should ask embarrassing questions; and the last hour of probation they gave to the
old town. There, as they stopped to look in at the workshops of the weavers, and the bakers,
or stared at the hands of Fatma-Zora painted in henna on the doors of Jews and True Believers,
crowds of ragged boys and girls followed them, laughing and begging as gaily as if begging
were a game. Only this band of children, and heavily jewelled girls of Morocco or Spain, with
unveiled, ivory faces and eyes like suns, looked at the Englishmen, as Stephen and Nevill passed
the isolated blue and green houses, in front of which the women sat in a bath of sunshine.
Arabs and Jews walked by proudly, and did not seem to see that there were strangers in their midst.

When at last it was time to go back to the hotel, and motor to the École Indigène, Josette
was ready, plainly dressed in black. She introduced her friends to the bride, Madame de Vaux,
a merry young woman, blonde by nature and art, who laughed always, like the children in the
Arab town. She admired Knight far more than Caird, because she liked tall, dark men, her own
husband being red and stout. Therefore, she would have been delighted to play the tactful chaperon,
if Josette had not continually broken in upon her duet with Stephen, ordering them both to
look at this or that.

The country through which they drove after passing out of the gate in the modern French wall,
might have been the south of England in midsummer, had it not been peopled by the dignified
Arab figures which never lost their strangeness and novelty for Stephen. Here, in the west
country, they glittered in finery like gorgeous birds: sky-blue jacket, scarlet fez and sash
glowing behind a lacework of green branches netted with flowers, where a man hoed his fields
or planted his garden.

Hung with a tapestry of roses, immense brown walls lay crumbling--ruined gateways, and shattered
traces of the triple fortifications which defended Tlemcen when the Almohades were in power.
By a clear rill of water gushing along the roadside, a group of delicate broken arches marked
the tomb of the "flying saint," Sidi Abou Ishad el Taïyer, an early Wright or Blériot who could
swim through the air; and though in his grave a chest of gold was said to be buried, no one--not
even the lawless men from over the border--had ever dared dig for the treasure. Close by, under
the running water, a Moor had found a huge lump of silver which must have lain for no one could
tell how many years, looking like a grey stone under a sheet of glass; nevertheless, the neighbouring
tomb had still remained inviolate, for Sidi Abou Ishad el Taïyer was a much respected saint,
even more loved than the marabout who sent rain for the gift of a sacrificed fowl, or he who
cured sore eyes in answer to prayer. Only Sidi Bou-Medine himself was more important; and presently
(because the distance was short, though the car had travelled slowly) they came to the footpath
in the hills which must be ascended on foot, to reach the shrine of the powerful saint, friend
of great Sidi Abd el Kader.

Already they could see the minaret of the mosque, high above the mean village which clustered
round it, rising as a flame rises against a windless sky, while beneath this shining Giralda
lay half-ruined houses rejuvenated with whitewash or coats of vivid blue. They passed up a
narrow street redeemed from sordidness by a domed koubbah or two; and from the roofed balconies
of cafés maures, Arabs looked down on them with large, dreamy eyes like clouded stars. All
the glory and pride of the village was concentrated in the tomb and beautiful mosque of the
saint whose name falls sweet on the ear as the music of a summer storm, the tinkle and boom
of rain and thunder coming together: Sidi Bou-Medine.

Toddling girls with henna-dyed hair, and miniature brown men, like blowing flower-petals in
scarlet, yellow, and blue, who had swarmed up the street after the Roumis, stopped at the portals
of the mosque and the sacred tomb. But there was a humming in the air like the song of bees,
which floated rhythmically out from the zaouïa, the school in the mosque where many boys squatted
cross-legged before the aged Taleb who taught the Koran; bowing, swaying towards him, droning
out the words of the Prophet, some half asleep, nodding against the onyx pillars.

In the shadow of the mosque it was cool, though the crown of the minaret, gemmed with priceless
tiles from Fez, blazed in the sun's rays as if it were on fire. Into this coolness the four
strangers passed, involuntarily hushing their voices in the portico of decorated walls and
hanging honeycombs of stucco whence, through great doors of ancient, greenish bronze (doors
said to have arrived miraculously from across the sea), they found their way into a courtyard
open to the sky, where a fountain waved silver plumes over a marble basin. Two or three dignified
Arab men bathed their feet in preparation for the afternoon prayer, and tired travellers from
a distance slept upon mats of woven straw, spread on tiles like a pavement of precious stones,
or dozed in the little cells made for the students who came in the grand old days. The sons
of Islam were reverent, yet happy and at home on the threshold of Allah's house, and Stephen
began to understand, as Nevill and Josette already understood, something of the vast influence
of the Mohammedan religion. Only Madame de Vaux remained flippant. In the car, she had laughed
at the women muffled in their haïcks, saying that as the men of Tlemcen were so tyrannical
about hiding female faces, it was strange they did not veil the hens and cows. In the shadowy
mosque, with its five naves, she giggled at the yellow babouches out of which her little high-heeled
shoes slipped, and threatened to recite a French verse under the delicate arch of the pale
blue mihrab.

But Stephen was impressed with the serene beauty of the Moslem temple, where, between labyrinths
of glimmering pillars like young ash trees in moonlight, across vistas of rainbow-coloured
rugs like flower-beds, the worshippers looked out at God's blue sky instead of peering through
thick, stained-glass windows; where the music was the murmur of running water, instead of sounding
organ-pipes; and where the winds of heaven bore away the odours of incense before they staled.
He wondered whether a place of prayer like this--white-walled, severely simple despite the
veil-like adornment of arabesques--did not more tend to religious contemplation than a cathedral
of Italy or Spain, with its bloodstained Christs, its Virgins, and its saints. Did this Arab
art perhaps more truly express the fervour of faith which needs no extraneous elaborations,
because it has no doubts? But presently calling up a vision of the high, dim aisles, the strong
yet soaring columns, all the mysterious purity of gothic cathedrals, he convinced himself that,
after all, the old monkish architects had the real secret of mystic aspirations in the human heart.

When Josette and Nevill led the way out of the mosque, Stephen was in the right mood for the
tomb of that ineffable saint of Islam, Shaoib ibn Husain el Andalousi, Sidi Bou-Medine. He
was almost ready to believe in the extraordinary virtue of the earth which had the honour of
covering the marabout's remains. It annoyed him that Madame de Vaux should laugh at the lowness
of the doorway under which they had to stoop, and that she should make fun of the suspended
ostrich eggs, the tinselled pictures and mirrors, the glass lustres and ancient lanterns, the
spilt candle-wax of many colours, or the old, old flags which covered the walls and the high
structure of carved wood which was the saint's last resting-place.

A grave Arab who approved their air of respect, gave a pinch of earth each to Stephen and Nevill,
wrapped in paper, repeating Josette's assurance that their wishes would be granted. It would
be necessary, he added, to reflect long before selecting the one desire of the soul which was
to be put above all others. But Nevill had no hesitation. He wished instantly, and tucked the
tiny parcel away in the pocket nearest his heart.

"And you, Monsieur?" asked Madame de Vaux, smiling at Stephen. "It does not appear easy to
choose. Ah, now you have decided! Will you tell me what you wished?"

"I think I mustn't do that. Saints favour those who can keep secrets," said Stephen, teasingly.
Yet he made his wish in earnest, after turning over several in his mind. To ask for his own
future happiness, in spite of obstacles which would prove the marabout's power, was the most
intelligent thing to do; but somehow the desire clamouring loudest at the moment was for Victoria,
and the rest might go ungranted.

"I wish that I may find her safe and happy," he said over the pinch of earth before putting
it into what Josette named his "poche du coeur."

"As for me," remarked Madame de Vaux, "I will not derange any of their Moslem saints, thank
you. I have more influential ones of my own, who might be annoyed. And it is stuffy in this
tomb. I am sure it is full of microbes. Let us go and see the ruined palace of the Black Sultan
who, Josette says, founded everything here that was worth founding. That there should be a
Black Sultan sounds like a fairy tale. And I like fairy tales next to bon-bons and new hats."

So they made their pilgrimage to the third treasure of the hill-village; and then away to where
the crumbling walls of Mansourah, and that great tower, which is one of the noblest Moorish
relics in all Algeria, rise out of a flowering plain.

Cherry blossoms fell in scented snow over their heads as the car ran back to Tlemcen, and out
once more, through the Moorish Porte de Fez, past the reservoir built by a king for an Arab
beauty to sail her boats upon. Sunset was near, and the sky blazed red as if Mansourah burned
with ten thousand torches.

The way led through vast blue lakes which were fields of periwinkles, and along the road trotted
pink-robed children, whose heads were wrapped in kerchiefs of royal purple. They led sheep
with golden-gleaming fleece, and at the tombs of marabouts they paused to pray, among groups
of kneeling figures in long white cloaks and turbans. All the atmosphere swam with changing
colours, such as come and go in the heart of a fire-opal.

Very beautiful must have been the city of Mansourah, named after murdered Sultan el Mansour,
the Victorious, who built its vast fortifications, its mosques and vanished palaces, its caravanserais
and baths, in the seven years when he was besieging Tlemcen. And still are its ruins beautiful,
after more than five centuries of pillage and destruction. Josette Soubise loved the place,
and often came to it when her day's work was done, therefore she was happy showing it to Nevill
and--incidentally--to the others.

The great brown wall pricked with holes like an enormous wasp's nest, the ruined watch-towers,
and the soaring, honey-coloured minaret with its intricate carvings, its marble pillars, its
tiles and inset enamels iridescent as a Brazilian beetle's wing, all gleamed with a splendour
that was an enchantment, in the fire of sunset. The scent of aromatic herbs, such as Arabs
love and use to cure their fevers, was bitter-sweet in the fall of the dew, and birds cried
to each other from hidden nests among the ruins.

"Mussulmans think that the spirits of their dead fly back to visit their own graves, or places
they have loved, in the form of birds," said Josette, looking up at the minaret, large marguerites
with orange centres embroidering her black dress, as she stood knee-deep in their waving gold.
"I half believe that these birds among the lovely carvings of the tower are the priests who
used to read the Koran in the mosque, and could not bear to leave it. The birds in the walls
are the soldiers who defended the city."

As she spoke there was a flight of wings, black against the rose and mauve of the sunset. "There!"
she exclaimed. "Arabs would call that an omen! To see birds flying at sundown has a special
meaning for them. If a man wanted something, he would know that he could get it only by going
in the direction the birds take."

"Which way are they flying?" asked Stephen.

All four followed the flight of wings with their eyes.

"They are going south-east," said Nevill.

XVII

If Victoria Ray had accepted Nevill Caird's invitation to be Lady MacGregor's guest and his,
at Djenan el Djouad, many things might have been different. But she had wished to be independent,
and had chosen to go to the Hotel de la Kasbah.

When she went down to dinner in the salle à manger, shortly after seven o'clock on the evening
of her arrival, only two other tables were occupied, for it was late in the season, and tourists
were leaving Algiers.

No one who had been on board the Charles Quex was there, and Victoria saw that she was the
only woman in the room. At one table sat a happy party of Germans, apparently dressed from
head to foot by Dr. Jaeger, and at another were two middle-aged men who had the appearance
of commercial travellers. By and by an elderly Jew came in, and dinner had reached the stage
of peppery mutton ragout, when the door opened again. Victoria's place was almost opposite,
and involuntarily, she glanced up. The handsome Arab who had crossed from Marseilles on the
boat saluted her with grave courtesy as he met her look, and passed on, casting down his eyes.
He was shown to a table at some distance, the manner of the Arab waiter who conducted him being
so impressive, that Victoria was sure the newcomer must be a person of importance.

He was beautifully dressed, as before, and the Germans stared at him frankly, but he did not
seem to be aware of their existence. Special dishes arrived for him, and evidently he had been
expected.

There was but one waiter to serve the meal, and not only did he somewhat neglect the other
diners for the sake of the latest arrival, but the landlord appeared, and stood talking with
the Arab while he ate, with an air of respect and consideration.

The Germans, who had nearly finished their dinner when Victoria came in, now left the table,
using their toothpicks and staring with the open-eyed interest of children at the picturesque
figure near the door. The commercial travellers and the Jew followed. Victoria also was ready
to go, when the landlord came to her table, bowing.

"Mademoiselle," he said, in French, "I am charged with a message from an Arab gentleman of
distinction, who honours my house by his presence. Sidi Maïeddine ben el Hadj Messaoud is the
son of an Agha, and therefore he is a lord, and Mademoiselle need have no uneasiness that he
would condescend to an indiscretion. He instructs me to present his respectful compliments
to Mademoiselle, whom he saw on the ship which brought him home, after carrying through a mission
in France. Seeing that Mademoiselle travelled alone, and intends perhaps to continue doing
so, according to the custom of her courageous and intelligent countrywomen, Sidi Maïeddine
wishes to say that, as a person who has influence in his own land, he would be pleased to serve
Mademoiselle, if she would honour him by accepting his offer in the spirit in which it is made:
that is, as the chivalrous service of a gentleman to a lady. He will not dream of addressing
Mademoiselle, unless she graciously permits."

As the landlord talked on, Victoria glanced across the room at the Arab, and though his eyes
were bent upon his plate, he seemed to feel the girl's look, as if by a kind of telepathy,
instantly meeting it with what seemed to her questioning eyes a sincere and disarming gaze.

"Tell Sidi Maïeddine ben el Hadj Messaoud that I thank him," she answered, rewarded for her
industry in keeping up French, which she spoke fluently, with the Parisian accent she had caught
as a child in Paris. "It is possible that he can help me, and I should be glad to talk with him."

"In that case Si Maïeddine would suggest that Mademoiselle grant him a short interview in the
private sitting-room of my wife, Madame Constant, who will be honoured," the fat man replied
promptly. "It would not be wise for Mademoiselle to be seen by strangers talking with the distinguished
gentleman, whose acquaintance she is to make. This, largely for her own sake; but also for
his, or rather, for the sake of certain diplomatic interests which he is appointed to carry
out. Officially, he is supposed to have left Algiers to-day. And it is by his permission that
I mention the matter to Mademoiselle."

"I will do whatever you think best," said Victoria, who was too glad of the opportunity to
worry about conventionalities. She was so young, and inexperienced in the ways of society,
that a small transgression against social laws appeared of little importance to a girl situated
as she was.

"Would the time immediately after dinner suit Mademoiselle, for Si Maïeddine to pay his respects?"

Victoria answered that she would be pleased to talk with Si Maïeddine as soon as convenient
to him, and Monsieur Constant hurried away to prepare his wife. While he was absent the Arab
did not again look at Victoria, and she understood that this reserve arose from delicacy. Her
heart began to beat, and she felt that the way to her sister might be opening at last. The
fact that she did feel this, made her tell herself that it must be true. Instinct was not given
for nothing!

She thought, too, of Stephen Knight. He would be glad to-morrow, when meeting her at luncheon
in his friend's house, to hear good news. Already she had been to see Jeanne Soubise, in the
curiosity-shop, and had bought a string of amber prayer-beads. She had got an introduction
to the Governor from the American Consul, whom she had visited before unpacking, lest the consular
office should be closed for the day; and she had obtained an appointment at the palace for
the next morning; but all that was not much to tell Mr. Knight. It seemed to her that even
in a few hours she ought to have accomplished more. Now, however, the key of the door which
opened into the golden silence might be waiting for her hand.

In three or four minutes the landlord came back, and begged to show her his wife's petit salon.
This time as she passed the Arab she bowed, and gave him a grateful smile. He rose, and stood
with his head slightly bent until she had gone out, remaining in the dining-room until the
landlord returned to say that he was expected by Mademoiselle.

"Remember," Si Maïeddine said in Arabic to the fat man, "everybody is to be discreet, now and
later. I shall see that all are rewarded for obedience."

"Thou art considerate, even of the humblest," replied the half-breed, using the word "thou,"
as all Arabs use it. "Thy presence is an honour for my house, and all in it is thine."

Si Maïeddine--who had never been in the Hotel de la Kasbah before, and would not have considered
it worthy of his patronage if he had not had an object in coming--allowed himself to be shown
the door of Madame Constant's salon. On the threshold, the landlord retired, and the young
man was hardly surprised to find, on entering, that Madame was not in the room.

Victoria was there alone; but free from self-consciousness as she always was, she received
Si Maïeddine without embarrassment. She saw no reason to distrust him, just because he was an Arab.

Now, how glad she was that she had learned Arabic! She began to speak diffidently at first,
stammering and halting a little, because, though she could read the language well after nine
years of constant study, only once had she spoken with an Arab;--a man in New York from whom
she had had a few lessons. Having learned what she could of the accent from phrase-books, her
way had been to talk to herself aloud. But the flash of surprised delight which lit up the
dark face told her that Si Maïeddine understood.

"Wonderful!" he exclaimed. "My best hope was that French might come easily to thy lips, as
I have little English."

"I have a sister married to one of thy countrymen," Victoria explained at once. "I do not know
where she is living, and it is in finding out, that I need help. Even on the ship I wished
to ask thee if thou hadst knowledge of her husband, but to speak then seemed impossible. It
is a fortunate chance that thou shouldst have come to this hotel, for I think thou wilt do
what thou canst for me." Then she went on and told him that her sister was the wife of Captain
Cassim ben Halim, who had once lived in Algiers.

Si Maïeddine who had dropped his eyes as she spoke of the fortunate chance which had brought
him to the hotel, listened thoughtfully and with keen attention to her story, asking no questions,
yet showing his interest so plainly that Victoria was encouraged to go on.

"Didst thou ever hear the name of Cassim ben Halim?" she asked.

"Yes, I have heard it," the Arab replied. "I have friends who knew him. And I myself have seen
Cassim ben Halim."

"Thou hast seen him!" Victoria cried, clasping her hands tightly together. She longed to press
them over her heart, which was like a bird beating its wings against the bars of a cage.

"Long ago. I am much younger than he."

"Yes, I see that," Victoria answered. "But thou knewest him! That is something. And my sister.
Didst thou ever hear of her?"

"We of the Mussulman faith do not speak of the wives of our friends, even when our friends
are absent. Yet--I have a relative in Algiers who might know something, a lady who is no longer
young. I will go to her to-night, and all that is in her heart she will tell me. She has lived
long in Algiers; and always when I come, I pay her my respects. But, there is a favour I would
beg in return for any help I can give, and will give gladly. I am supposed to be already on
my way south, to finish a diplomatic mission, and, for reasons connected with the French government,
I have had to make it appear that I started to-day with my servant. There is also a reason,
connected with Si Cassim, which makes it important that nothing I may do should be known to
thy European friends. It is for his sake especially that I ask thy silence; and whatsoever
might bring harm to him--if he be still upon the earth--would also harm thy sister. Wilt thou
give me thy word, O White Rose of another land, that thou wilt keep thine own counsel?"

"I give thee my word--and with it my trust," said the girl.

"Then I swear that I will not fail thee. And though until I have seen my cousin I cannot speak
positively, yet I think what I can do will be more than any other could. Wilt thou hold thyself
free of engagements with thy European friends, until I bring news?"

"I have promised to lunch to-morrow with people who have been kind, but rather than risk a
delay in hearing from thee, I will send word that I am prevented from going."

"Thou hast the right spirit, and I thank thee for thy good faith. But it may be well not to
send that message. Thy friends might think it strange, and suspect thee of hiding something.
It is better to give no cause for questionings. Go then, to their house, but say nothing of
having met me, or of any new hope in thine heart. Yet let the hope remain, and be to thee like
the young moon that riseth over the desert, to show the weary traveller a rill of sweet water
in an oasis of date palms. And now I will bid thee farewell, with a night of dreams in which
thy dearest desires shall be fulfilled before thine eyes. I go to my cousin, on thy business."

"Good night, Sidi. Henceforth my hope is in thee." Victoria held out her hand, and Si Maïeddine
clasped it, bowing with the courtesy of his race. He was nearer to her than he had been before,
and she noticed a perfume which hung about his clothing, a perfume that seemed to her like
the East, heavy and rich, suggestive of mystery and secret things. It brought to her mind what
she had read about harems, and beautiful, languid women, yet it suited Si Maïeddine's personality,
and somehow did not make him seem effeminate.

"See," he said, in the poetic language which became him as his embroidered clothes and the
haunting perfume became him; "see, how thine hand lies in mine like a pearl that has dropped
into the hollow of an autumn leaf. But praise be to Allah, autumn and I are yet far apart.
I am in my summer, as thou, lady, art in thine early spring. And I vow that thou shalt never
regret confiding thy hand to my hand, thy trust to my loyalty."

As he spoke, he released her fingers gently, and turning, went out of the room without another
word or glance.

When he had gone, Victoria stood still, looking at the door which Si Maïeddine had shut noiselessly.

If she had not lived during all the years since Saidee's last letter, in the hope of some such
moment as this, she would have felt that she had come into a world of romance, as she listened
to the man of the East, speaking the language of the East. But she had read too many Arabic
tales and poems to find his speech strange. At school, her studies of her sister's adopted
tongue had been confined to dry lesson-books, but when she had been free to choose her own
literature, in New York and London, she had read more widely. People whom she had told of her
sister's marriage, and her own mission, had sent her several rare volumes,--among others a
valuable old copy of the Koran, and she had devoured them all, delighting in the facility which
grew with practice. Now, it seemed quite simple to be talking with Sidi Maïeddine ben el Hadj
Messaoud as she had talked. It was no more romantic or strange than all of life was romantic
and strange. Rather did she feel that at last she was face to face with reality.

"He does know something about Cassim," she said, half aloud, and searching her instinct, she
still thought that she could trust him to keep faith with her. He was not playing. She believed
that there was sincerity in his eyes.

The next morning, when Victoria called at the Governor's palace, and heard that Captain Cassim
ben Halim was supposed to have died in Constantinople, years ago, she was not cast down. "I
know Si Maïeddine doesn't think he's dead," she told herself.

There was a note for her at the hotel, and though the writer had addressed the envelope to
"Mademoiselle Ray," in an educated French handwriting, the letter inside was written in beautiful
Arab lettering, an intentionally flattering tribute to her accomplishment.

Si Maïeddine informed her that his hope had been justified, and that in conversation with his
cousin his own surmises had been confirmed. A certain plan was suggested, which he wished to
propose to Mademoiselle Ray, but as it would need some discussion, there was not time to bring
it forward before the hour when she must go out to keep her engagement. On her return, however,
he begged that she would see him, in the salon of Madame Constant, where she would find him
waiting. Meanwhile, he ventured to remind her that for the present, secrecy was even more necessary
than he had at first supposed; he would be able to explain why, fully and satisfactorily, when
they met in the afternoon.

With this appointment to look forward to, it was natural that Victoria should excuse herself
to Lady MacGregor earlier than most people cared to leave Djenan el Djouad. The girl was more
excited than she had ever been in her life, and it was only by the greatest self-control that
she kept--or believed that she kept--her manner as usual, while with Stephen in the white garden
of lilies. She was happy, because she saw her feet already upon the path which would lead through
the golden silence to her sister; but there was a drawback to her happiness--a fly in the amber,
as in one of the prayer-beads she had bought of Jeanne Soubise: her secret had to be kept from
the man of whom she thought as a very staunch friend. She felt guilty in talking with Stephen
Knight, and accepting his sympathy as if she were hiding nothing from him; but she must be
true to her promise, and Si Maïeddine had the right to exact it, though of course Mr. Knight
might have been excepted, if only Si Maïeddine knew how loyal he was. But Si Maïeddine did
not know, and she could not explain. It was consoling to think of the time when Stephen might
be told everything; and she wished almost unconsciously that it was his help which she had
to rely upon now.

XVIII

True to his word, Si Maïeddine was waiting in Madame Constant's hideous sitting-room, when
Victoria returned to the hotel from Djenan el Djouad.

To-day he had changed his grey bournous for a white one, and all his clothing was white, embroidered
with silver.

"It is written," he began in Arabic, as he rose to welcome the girl, "that the messenger who
brings good tidings shall come in white. Now thou art prepared for happiness. Thou also hast
chosen white; but even in black, thy presence would bring a blessing, O Rose of the West."

The colour of the rose stained Victoria's cheeks, and Si Maïeddine's eyes were warm as he looked
at her. When she had given him her hand, he kissed his own, after touching it. "Be not alarmed,
or think that I take a liberty, for it is but a custom of my people, in showing respect to
man or woman," he explained. "Thou hast not forgotten thy promise of silence?"

"No, I spoke not a word of thee, nor of the hope thou gavest me last night," Victoria answered.

"It is well," he said. "Then I will keep nothing back from thee."

They sat down, Victoria on a repulsive sofa of scarlet plush, the Arab on a chair equally offensive
in design and colour.

"Into the life of thy brother-in-law, there came a great trouble," he said. "It befell after
the days when he was known by thee and thy sister in Paris. Do not ask what it was, for it
would grieve me to refuse a request of thine. Shouldst thou ever hear this thing, it will not
be from my lips. But this I will say--though I have friends among the French, and am loyal
to their salt which I have eaten, and I think their country great--France was cruel to Ben
Halim. Were not Allah above all, his life might have been broken, but it was written that,
after a time of humiliation, a chance to win honour and glory such as he had never known, should
be put in his way. In order to take this blessing and use it for his own profit and that of
others, it was necessary that Ben Halim--son of a warrior of the old fighting days, when nomads
of high birth were as kings in the Sahara, himself lately a captain of the Spahis, admired
by women, envied of men--it was necessary that he should die to the world."

"Then he is not really dead!" cried Victoria.

The face of Si Maïeddine changed, and wore that look which already the girl had remarked in
Arab men she had passed among French crowds: a look as if a door had shut behind the bright,
open eyes; as if the soul were suddenly closed.

"Thy brother-in-law was living when last I heard of him," Maïeddine answered, slowly.

"And my sister?"

"My cousin told me last night that Lella Saïda was in good health some months ago when news
came of her from a friend."

"They call her Saïda!" murmured the girl, half sadly; for that Saidee should tolerate such
a change of name, seemed to signify some subtle alteration in her spirit. But she knew that
"Lella" meant "Madame" in Arab society.

"It is my cousin who spoke of the lady by that name. As for me, it is impossible that I should
know anything of her. Thou wishest above all things to see thy sister?"

"Above all things. For more than nine years it has been the one great wish of my life to go
to her."

"It is a long journey. Thou wouldst have to go far--very far."

"What would it matter, if it were to the end of the world?"

"As well try to reach the place where she is, as though it were beyond where the world ends,
unless thou wert guided by one who knew the way."

Victoria looked the Arab full in the face. "I have always been sure that God would lead me
there, one day, soon or late," she said.

"Thy God is my God, and Mohammed is his Prophet, as thy Christ was also among his Prophets.
It is as thou sayest; Allah wills that thou shouldst make this journey, for He has sent me
into thy life at the moment of thy need. I can take thee to thy sister's house, if thou wilt
trust thyself to me. Not alone--I would not ask that. My cousin will take care of thee. She
has her own reason for going on this great journey, a reason which in its way is as strong
as thine, for it concerns her life or death. She is a noble lady of my race, who should be
a Princess of Touggourt, for her grandfather was Sultan before the French conquered those warlike
men of the desert, far south where Touggourt lies. Lella M'Barka Bent Djellab hears the voice
of the Angel Azraïl in her ears, yet her spirit is strong, and she believes it is written in
the Book that she shall reach the end of her journey. This is the plan she and I have made;
that thou leave the hotel to-day, towards evening, and drive (in a carriage which she will
send)--to her house, where thou wilt spend the night. Early in the morning of to-morrow she
can be ready to go, taking thee with her. I shall guard thee, and we shall have an escort which
she and I will provide. Dost thou consent? Because if the idea pleases thee, there are many
arrangements which must be made quickly. And I myself will take all trouble from thy shoulders
in the matter of leaving the hotel. I am known and well thought of in Algiers and even the
landlord here, as thou hast seen, has me in consideration, because my name is not strange to
him. Thou needst not fear misconstruction of thine actions, by any one who is here."

Si Maïeddine added these arguments, seeing perhaps that Victoria hesitated before answering
his question.

"Thou art generous, and I have no fear," she said at last, with a faint emphasis which he could
read as he chose. "But, since thou hast my word to be silent, surely thou wilt tell me where
lies the end of the journey we must take?"

"Even so, I cannot tell thee," Si Maïeddine replied with decision which Victoria felt to be
unalterable. "It is not for lack of trust in thee, O Rose, but for a reason which is not mine
to explain. All I can do is to pledge my honour, and the honour of a princess, to conduct thee
loyally to the house of thy sister's husband. If thou goest, it must be in the dress of an
Arab lady, veiled from eyes which might spy upon thee; and so thou wilt be safe under the protection
of my cousin."

"My thanks to thee and to her--I will go," Victoria said, after a moment's pause.

