This Continent has lately been convulsed by an upheaving so sudden and terrible that the relations
of all men and women to each other are violently disturbed, and people look about for the elements
with which to sway the storm and direct the whirlwind. Just at present, we do not know what
all this is to bring forth; but we do know that great results MUST flow from such extraordinary
commotions.

At a juncture so solemn and so important, there is a special need that the intellectual force
of the country should be active and efficient. It is a time for great minds to speak their
thoughts boldly, and to take position as the advance guard. To this end, there is a special
want unsupplied. It is that of an Independent Magazine, which shall be open to the first intellects
of the land, and which shall treat the issues presented, and to be presented to the country,
in a tone no way tempered by partisanship, or influenced by fear, favor, or the hope of reward;
which shall seize and grapple with the momentous subjects that the present disturbed state
of affairs heave to the surface, and which CAN NOT be laid aside or neglected.

To meet this want, the undersigned have commenced, under the editorial charge of CHARLES GODFREY
LELAND, the publication of a new magazine, devoted to Literature and National Policy.

In POLITICS, it will advocate, with all the for command, measures best adapted to preserve
the oneness and integrity of these United States. It will never yield to the idea of any disruption
of the Republic, peaceably or otherwise; and it will discuss with honesty and impartiality
what must be done to save it. In this department, some of the most eminent statesmen of the
time will contribute regularly to its pages.

In LITERATURE, it will be sustained by the best writers and ablest thinkers of this country.

Among its attractions will be presented, in an early number, a NEW SERIAL of American Life,
by RICHARD B. KIMBALL, ESQ., the very popular author of "The Revelations of Wall Street," "St.
Leger," &c. A series of papers by HON. HORACE GREELEY, embodying the distinguished author's
observations on the growth and development of the Great West. A series of articles by the author
of "Through the Cotton States," containing the result of an extended tour in the seaboard Slave
States, just prior to the breaking out of the war, and presenting a startling and truthful
picture of the real condition of that region. No pains will be spared to render the literary
attractions of the CONTINENTAL both brilliant and substantial. The lyrical or descriptive talents
of the most eminent literati have been promised to its pages; and nothing will be admitted
which will not be distinguished by marked energy, originality, and solid strength. Avoiding
every influence or association partaking of clique or coterie, it will be open to all contributions
of real merit, even from writers differing materially in their views; the only limitation required
being that of devotion to the Union, and the only standard of acceptance that of intrinsic
excellence.

The EDITORIAL DEPARTMENT will embrace, in addition to vigorous and fearless comments on the
events of the times, genial gossip with the reader on all current topics, and also devote abundant
space to those racy specimens of American wit and humor, without which there can be no perfect
exposition of our national character. Among those who will contribute regularly to this department
may be mentioned the name of CHARLES F. BROWNE ("Artemus Ward"), from whom we shall present
in the MARCH number, the first of an entirely new and original series of SKETCHES OF WESTERN LIFE.

