Moore also brought out the facts of the death of Chief Sullivan so far as they are known. The
witness admitted that Sullivan was charged with abuse of an adopted daughter of Mr. Elliott,
a G. A. R. veteran; that desk officer N. V. Pitts charged Sullivan with having forced him to
turn over certain Chinese bond money and the Chief resigned his position while under these
charges; that the Spokane Press bitterly attacked Sullivan and was sued as a consequence, the
Scripps-McRae paper being represented by the law firm of Robertson, Miller and Rosenhaupt,
of which Judge Frank C. Robertson was the head; that the Chronicle and Spokesman-Review joined
in the attack upon the Chief; and that when Sullivan was dying from a shot in the back the
following conversation occurred between himself and the dying man: "I said to him 'John, who
do you suppose did this?' He says, 'Judge F. C. Robertson and the Press are responsible for
this.' I said, 'John, you don't mean that, you can't mean it?' He says, 'That is the way I feel.'"

Judge Ronald prevented the attorneys from going very deeply into the Spokane affair, saying:

"I am not going to wash Spokane linen here; we have some of our own to wash!"

C. R. Schweitzer, owner of a scab plumbing shop, aged 47, yet grey-haired, brazenly admitted
having emptied a shotgun into the unarmed boys on the Verona. It was the missiles from the
brand-new shotgun--probably furnished by Dave Oswald--that riddled the pilot house and wounded
many of the men who fell to the deck when the Verona tilted. Schweitzer fired from a safe position
behind the Klatawa slip. Why the prosecution used him as a witness is a mystery.

W. A. Taro, Everett Fire Chief, testified regarding the few incendiary fires that had occurred
in Everett during the year 1916, but failed to connect them with the I. W. W. in any way. D.
Daniels, Everett police officer, testified to a phosphorous fire which did no damage and was
in no way connected with the I. W. W.

Mrs. Jennie B. Ames, the only woman witness called by the prosecution, testified that Mrs.
Frennette was on the inclined walk at the Great Northern Depot, at a point overlooking the
dock, and was armed with a revolver at the time the Verona trouble was on. Police officer J.
E. Moline also swore to the same thing, but was badly tangled when confronted with his own
evidence given at the preliminary hearing of Mrs. Frennette on December 6th, 1916.

Never was there a cad but who wished himself proclaimed as a gentleman; never a bedraggled
and maudlin harlot but who wanted the world to know that she was a perfect lady. The last witness
to be called by the prosecution was John Hogan--"Honest" John Hogan if prosecutor Lloyd Black
was to be credited.

"Honest" John Hogan was a young red-headed regular deputy sheriff, who was a participant in
the outrage on the City Dock on November 5th. "Honest" John Hogan claimed to have seen the
defendant, Thomas Tracy, firing a revolver from one of the forward cabin windows. "Honest"
John Hogan had the same difficulty as the other "identifying" witnesses when he also was asked
to state whether it was possible to see a man firing from a cabin window when the stern of
the boat was out and the witness in his specified position on the dock. "Honest" John Hogan
was sure it was Tracy that he saw because the man had a week's growth of whiskers on his face.

And this ended the case for the prosecution.

As had been predicted there were hundreds of witnesses who were endorsed and not called, and
almost without an exception those who testified were parties who had a very direct interest
in seeing that a conviction was secured. But thru the clever work of the lawyers for the defense
what was meant to have been a prosecution of the I. W. W. was turned into an extremely poor
defense of the deputies and their program of "law and order." From the state's witnesses the
defense had developed nearly the whole outline and many of the details of its side of the case.

When the state rested its case, Tracy leaned over to the defense lawyers and, with a smile
on his face, said:

"I'd be willing to let the case go to the jury right now."

CHAPTER VII.

THE DEFENSE

The case for the defense opened on Monday morning of April 2nd when Vanderveer, directly facing
the judge and witness chair from the position vacated by the prosecution counsel, moved for
a directed verdict of not guilty on the ground that there had been an absolute failure of evidence
upon the question of conspiracy, any conspiracy of which murder was either directly or indirectly
an incident, and there was no evidence whatever to charge the defendant directly as a principal
in causing the death of Jefferson Beard. The motion was denied and an exception taken to the
ruling of the court.

Fred Moore made the opening statement for the defense. In his speech he briefly outlined the
situation that had existed in Everett up to and including November 5th and explained to the
jury the forces lined up against each other in Everett's industrial warfare. Not for an instant
did the attention of the jury flag during the recital.

Herbert Mahler, secretary of the I. W. W. in Seattle during the series of outrages in Everett,
was the first witness placed upon the stand. Mahler told of the lumber workers' convention
and the sending of organizer James Rowan to make a survey of the industrial situation in the
lumber centers, Everett being the first point because of its proximity to Seattle and not by
reason of any strikes that may have existed there. The methods of conducting the free speech
fight, the avoidance of secrecy, the ardent desire for publicity of the methods of the lumber
trust as well as the tactics of the I. W. W., were clearly explained.

Cooley cross-examined Mahler regarding the song book with reference to the advocacy and use
of sabotage, asking the witness:

"How about throwing a pitchfork into a threshing machine? Would that be all right?"

"There are circumstances when it would be, I suppose," replied Mahler. "If there was a farmer
deputy who had been at Beverly Park, I think they certainly would have a right to destroy his
threshing machine."

"You think that would justify it?" inquired Cooley.

"Yes," said the witness, "I think that if the man had abused his power as an officer and the
person he abused had no other way of getting even with him and that justice was denied him
in the courts, I fully believe that he would be. That would not hurt anybody; it would only
hurt his pocketbook."

"Now what is this Joe Hill Memorial Edition?"

"Joe Hillstrom, known as Joe Hill, had written a number of songs in the I. W. W. Song Book
and he was murdered in Utah and the song book was gotten out in memory of him," responded Mahler.

"He was executed after having been convicted of murder in the first degree, and sentenced to
death. And you say he was murdered?" said Cooley.

"Yes," said Mahler with emphasis. "Our contention has been that Hillstrom did not have a fair
trial and we are quite capable of proving it. I may say that President Wilson interceded in
his behalf and was promptly turned down by Governor Spry of Utah. Hillstrom was offered a commutation
of sentence and he refused to take it. He wanted a retrial or an acquittal. When the President
of the United States had interceded with the Governor of Utah, when various labor organizations
asked that he be given a retrial, and a man's life is to be taken from him, and people all
over the country ask for a retrial, that certainly should be granted to him."

James P. Thompson was placed upon the stand to explain the principles of the I. W. W. The courtroom
was turned into a propaganda meeting during the examination of the witness.

"Men in society represent economic categories," said Thompson. "By that I mean that in the
world of shoes there are shoemakers, and in the world of boats there are seamen, and in this
society there are economic categories called the employing class and the working class. Now,
between them as employing class and working class there is nothing in common. Their interests
are diametrically opposed as such. It is not the same thing as saying that human beings have
nothing in common. The working class and the employing class have antagonistic interests, and
the more one gets the less remains for the other.

"Labor produces all wealth," continued Thompson, "and the more the workers have to give up
to anyone else the less remains for themselves. The more they get in wages the less remains
for the others in the form of profits. As long as labor produces for the other class all the
good things of life there will be no peace; we want the products of labor ourselves and let
the other class go to work also.

"The trades unions are unable to cope with the power of the employers because when one craft
strikes the others remain at work and by so doing help the company to fill orders, and that
is helping to break the strike. If a group of workers strike and win, other workers are encouraged
to do likewise: if they strike and lose, other workers are discouraged and employers are encouraged
to do some whipping on their own account.

"We believe in an industrial democracy; that the industry shall be owned by the people and
operated on a co-operative plan instead of the wage plan; that there is no such thing as a
fair day's pay; that we should have the full product of our labor in the co-operative system
as distinguished from the wage system.

"Furthermore," went on the witness, as the jury leaned forward to catch his every word, "our
ideas were suggested to us by conditions in modern industry, and it is the historical mission
of the workers to organize, not only for the preliminary struggles, but to carry on production
afterward."

"We object to this!" shouted Mr. Cooley, and the court sustained the objection.

Despite continual protests from the prosecution Thompson gave the ideas of the I. W. W. on
many questions. Speaking of free speech the witness said:

"Free speech is vital. It is a point that has been threshed out and settled before we were
born. If we do not have free speech, the children of the race will die in the dark."

The message of industrial unionism delivered thru the sworn testimony of a labor organizer
was indeed an amazing spectacle. Judge Ronald never relaxed his attention during the entire
examination, the jury was spell-bound, and it was only by an obvious effort that the spectators
kept from applauding the various telling points.

"There is overwork on one hand," said Thompson, "and out-of-work on the other. The length of
the working day should be determined by the amount of work and the number of workers. You have
no more right to do eight or ten or twelve hours of labor when others are out of work, despondent,
committing suicide, than you have to drink all the water, if that were possible, while others
are dying of thirst.

"Solidarity is the I. W. W. way to get their demands. We do not advocate that the workers should
organize in a military way and use guns and dynamite. The most effective weapon of labor is
economic power: the modern wage workers are the living parts of industry and if they fold their
arms, they immediately precipitate a crisis, they paralyze the world. No other class has that
power. The other class can fold their arms, and they do most of the time, but our class has
the economic power. The I. W. W. preaches and teaches all the time that a far more effective
weapon than brickbats or dynamite is solidarity.

"We have developed from individual production, to social production, yet we still have private
ownership of the means of production. One class owns the industries and doesn't operate them,
another class operates the industries and does not own them. We are going to have a revolution.
No one is more mistaken than those who believe that this system is the final state of society.
As the industrial revolution takes place, as the labor process takes on the co-operative form,
as the tool of production becomes social, the idea of social ownership is suggested, and so
the idea that things that are used collectively should be owned collectively, presents itself
with irresistible force to the people of the twentieth century. So there is a struggle for
industrial democracy. We are the modern abolitionists fighting against wage slavery as the
other abolitionists fought against chattel slavery. The solution for our modern problems is
this, that the industries should be owned by the people, operated by the people for the people,
and the little busy bees who make the honey of the world should eat that honey, and there should
be no drones at all in the hives of industry.

"When we have industrial democracy you will know that the mills, the mines, the factories,
the earth itself, will be the collective property of the people, and if a little baby should
be born that baby would be as much an owner of the earth as any other of the children of men.
Then the war, the commercial struggles, the clashes between groups of conflicting interests,
will be a night-mare of the past. In the place of capitalism with its one class working and
its other class enjoying, in the place of the wages system with its strife and strikes, lockouts
and grinding poverty, we will have a co-operative system where the interests of one will be
to promote the interests of all--that will be Industrial Democracy."

Thompson explained the meaning of the sarcastic song, "Christians at War," to the evident amusement
of the jury and spectators. The witness was then asked about Herve's work on anti-patriotism
in this question by attorney Moore:

"What is the attitude of your organization relative to internationalism and national patriotism?"

"We object to that as incompetent and immaterial," cried Veitch of the prosecution.

"What did you put this book in for then?" said Judge Ronald in a testy manner as he motioned
the witness to proceed with his answer.

"In the broader sense," answered Thompson, "there is no such thing as a foreigner. We are all
native born members of this planet, and for the members of it to be divided into groups or
units and to be taught that each nation is better than the other leads to clashes and the world
war. We ought to have in the place of national patriotism--the idea that one people is better
than another,--a broader conception, that of international solidarity. The idea that we are
better than others is contrary to the Declaration of Independence which declares that all men
are born free and equal. The I. W. W. believes that in order to do away with wars we should
remove the cause of wars; we should establish industrial democracy and the co-operative system
instead of commercialism and capitalism and the struggles that come from them. We are trying
to make America a better land, a land without child slaves, a land without poverty, and so
also with the world, a world without a master and without a slave."

When the lengthy direct examination of Thompson had been finished, the prosecution questioned
him but five minutes and united in a sigh of relief as he left the stand.

The next witness called was Ernest Nordstrom, companion of Oscar Carlson who was severely wounded
on the Verona. Nordstrom testified rather out of his logical order in the trial by reason of
the fact that he was about to leave on a lengthy fishing trip to Alaska. His testimony was
that he purchased a regular ticket at the same time as his friend Carlson, but these tickets
were not taken up by the purser. The original ticket of this passenger was then offered in
evidence. The witness stated that the first shot came from almost the same place on the dock
as did the words "You can't land here." He fell to the deck and saw Carlson fall also. Carlson
tried to rise once, but a bullet hit him and he dropped; there were nine bullet holes in him.
Nordstrom was asked:

"Did you have a gun?"

"No sir."

"Did Carlson have a gun?"

"No sir."

"Did you see anybody with a gun on the boat?"

"No. I didn't."

Organizer James Rowan then gave his experiences in Everett, ending with a vivid recital of
the terrible beating he had received at the hands of deputies near Silver Lake. Upon telling
of the photograph that was taken of his lacerated back he was asked by Veitch:

"What was the reason you had that picture taken?"

"Well," said Rowan, in his inimitable manner, "I thought it would be a good thing to get that
taken to show up the kind of civilization that they had in Everett."

Dr. E. J. Brown, a Seattle dentist, and Thomas Horner, Seattle attorney, corroborated Rowan's
testimony as to the condition of his back. They had seen the wounds and bruises shortly after
the beating had been administered and were of the opinion that a false light was reflected
on the photograph in such a way that the severest marks did not appear as bad as they really were.

Otto Nelson, Everett shingle weaver, gave testimony regarding the shingle weavers' strikes
of 1915 and 1916 but was stopped from going into detail by the rulings of the court. He told
also of the peaceful character of all the I. W. W. meetings in Everett, and stated that on
one occasion police officer Daniels had fired two shots down one of the city streets at an
I. W. W. man who had been made to run the gauntlet.

H. P. Whartenby, owner of a five-ten-fifteen cent store in Everett, said that the I. W. W.
meetings were orderly, and further testified that he had been ordered out of the Commercial
Club on the evening of November 5th but not until he had seen that the club was a regular arsenal,
with guns stacked all over the place.

To establish the fact that the sidewalks were kept clear, that there was no advocacy of violence,
that no resistance was offered to arrest, and that the I. W. W. meetings were well conducted
in every particular, the defense put on in fairly rapid succession a number of Everett citizens:
Mrs. Ina M. Salter, Mrs. Elizabeth Maloney, Mrs. Letelsia Fye, Bruce J. Hatch, Mrs. Dollie
Gustaffson, Miss Avis Mathison, Mrs. Peter Aiken, Mrs. Annie Pomeroy, Mrs. Rebecca Wade, F.
G. Crosby, and Mrs. Hannah Crosby. The fact that these citizens, and a number of other women
who were mentioned in the testimony, attended the I. W. W. meetings quite regularly, impressed
the jury favorably. Some of these women witnesses had been roughly handled by the deputies.
Mrs. Pomeroy stated that the deputies, armed with clubs and distinguished by white handkerchiefs
around their necks, invaded one meeting and struck right and left. "And they punched me at
that!" said the indignant witness.

"Punched you where?" inquired Vanderveer in order to locate the injury.

"They punched me on the sidewalk!" answered the witness, and the solemn bailiff had to rap
for order in the court room.

Cooley caught a Tartar in his cross-examination of Mrs. Crosby. He inquired:

"Did you hear the I. W. W.'s say that when they got a majority of the workers into this big
union they would take possession of the industries and run them themselves?"

"Why certainly!"

"You did hear them say they would take possession?"

"Why certainly!" flashed back the witness. "That's the way the North did with the slaves, isn't
it? They took possession without ever asking them. My people came from the South and they had
slaves taken away from them and never got anything for it, and quite right, too!"

"Then you do believe it would be all right, yourself?" said Cooley.

"I believe that confiscation would be perfectly right in the case of taking things that are
publicly used for the public good of the people----."

"That's all," hastily cut in Cooley.

"That they should be used then by the people and for the people!" finished the witness.

"That's all!" cried Cooley loudly and more anxiously.

Frank Henig, the next witness, told of having been blackjacked by Sheriff McRae and exhibited
the large scar on his forehead that plainly showed where the brutal blow had landed. He stated
that he had tried to secure the arrest of McRae for the entirely unwarranted attack but was
denied a warrant.

Jake Michel, secretary of the Everett Building Trades Council, gave evidence regarding a number
of the I. W. W. street meetings. He was questioned at length about what he had inferred from
the speeches of Rowan, Thompson and others. Replying to one question he said:

"I think the American Federation of Labor uses the most direct action that any organization
could use."

"In a strike?"

"Yes."

"And by that you mean a peaceful strike?" said Cooley suggestively.

"Well, I haven't seen them carry on very many peaceful ones yet," replied Michel.

Cooley asked Michel whether Rowan had said that "the workers should form one great industrial
union and declare the final and universal strike; that is, that they should remain within the
industrial institutions and lock the employers out for good as owners?"

"I never heard him mention anything about locking anyone out; I think he wanted to lock them
in and make them do some of the work!" answered Michel.

"You haven't any particular interest in this case, have you?" asked Cooley with a sneer.

"Yes, I have!" replied Michel with emphasis.

When asked what this particular interest was, Michel caused consternation among the ranks of
the prosecution by replying:

"The reason I have that interest is this; I have two sons and two daughters. I want to see
the best form of organization so that the boys can go out and make a decent living; I don't
want my girls to become prostitutes upon the streets and my boys vagabonds upon the highways!"

Harry Feinberg, one of the free speech prisoners named on the first information with Watson
and Tracy, was then placed on the stand and questioned as to the beating he had received at
the hands of deputies, as to the condition of Frank Henig after McRae's attack, and upon matters
connected with various street meetings at which he had been the speaker. Mention of the name
of George Reese brought forth an argument from the prosecution that it had not been shown that
Reese was a detective. After an acrimonious discussion Vanderveer suddenly declared:

"Just to settle this thing and settle it for now and all the time, I will ask a subpoena forthwith
for Philip K. Ahern and show who Reese is working for."

The subpoena was issued and a recess taken to allow it to be served. As Vanderveer stepped
into the hall, detective Malcolm McLaren said to him, "You can't subpoenae the head of the
Pinkerton Detective Agency!"

"I have subpoenaed him," responded Vanderveer shortly as he hurried to the witness room.

While awaiting the arrival of this witness, Feinberg was questioned further, and was then taken
from the stand to allow the examination of two Everett witnesses, Mrs. L. H. Johnson and P.
S. Johnson, the latter witness being withdrawn when Ahern put in an appearance.

Vanderveer was very brief, but to the point, in the examination of the local head of the Pinkerton
Agency.

"Mr. Ahern, on the fifth day of November you had in your employ a man named George Reese?"

"Yes sir."

"For whom was he working, thru you, at that time?"

"For Snohomish County."

"That's all!" said Vanderveer triumphantly.

Cooley did not seem inclined to cross-examine the witness at any length and Vanderveer in another
straightforward question brought out the fact that Reese was a Pinkerton employe during the
Longshoremen's strike--this being the time that Reese also was seated as a delegate to the
Seattle Trades Council of the A. F. of L.

A portion of the testimony of Mrs. L. H. Johnson was nearly as important as that concerning
Reese. She recited a conversation with Sheriff McRae as follows:

"McRae said he would stop the I. W. W. from coming to Everett if he had to call out the soldiers.
And I told him the soldiers wouldn't come out on an occasion like this, they were nothing but
Industrial Workers of the World and they had a right to speak and get people to join their
union if they wanted to. And he said he had the backing of the millmen to keep them out of
the city, and he was going to do it if he had to call the soldiers out and shoot them down
when they landed there, when they came off the dock."

This clearly indicated the bloodthirsty designs of the millmen and the sheriff at a time long
before November 5th.

G. W. Carr, Wilfred Des Pres, and J. M. Norland testified to the breaking up of peaceably conducted
I. W. W. meetings, Des Pres also telling of rifles having been transported from the Pacific
Hardware Company to the dock on November 5th. All three were Everett citizens. Black asked
Norland if he knew what sabotage was, to which Norland replied:

"Everybody that follows the labor movement knows what sabotage is."

There was a sensation in court at this question for it was the first and only time that any
of the prosecution counsel correctly pronounced the word sabotage!

W. W. Blain, secretary of the Commercial Club, altho an unwilling witness, gave much information
of value to the defense. He was forced to produce the minutes of the "open shop committee"
and give up the story of how control of the club was purchased by the big interests, how the
boycott was invoked against certain publications, and finally to tell of the employment of
Pinkerton detectives prior to November 5th, and to give a list of the deputies furnished by
the Commercial Club.

During the examination of this witness some telegrams, in connection with the testimony, were
handed up to the judge. While reading these Judge Ronald was interrupted by a foolish remark
from Black to Vanderveer. Looking over his glasses the judge said:

"Every time I start to read anything, you gentlemen get into a quarrel among yourselves. I
am inclined to think that the 'cats,' some of them, are here in the courtroom."

"I will plead guilty for Mr. Black, Your Honor!" said Vanderveer quickly, laughing at the reference
to sabotage.

Testimony to further establish the peaceable character of the I. W. W. meetings and the rowdyism
of the police and deputies was given by witnesses from Everett: Gustaf Pilz, Mrs. Leota Carr,
J. E. McNair, Ed Morton, Michael Maloney, Verne C. Henry and Morial Thornburg. The statements
of these disinterested parties regarding the clubbings given to the speakers and to citizens
of their acquaintance proved very effective.

Attorney H. D. Cooley for the prosecution was placed upon the witness stand and Vanderveer
shot the question at him:

"By whom were you employed in this case, Mr. Cooley?"

"Objected to as immaterial!" cried Veitch, instantly springing to his feet.

But the damage had been done! The refusal to allow an answer showed that there were interested
parties the prosecution wished to hide from the public.

Levi Remick related the story of the deportation from Everett, and was followed on the witness
stand by Edward Lavelly, James Dwyer, and Thomas Smye, who testified to different atrocities
committed in Everett by McRae and the citizen deputies. Their evidence had mainly to do with
the acts of piracy committed against the launch "Wanderer" and the subsequent abuse of the
arrested men. A little later in the trial this testimony was fully corroborated by the statements
of Captain Jack Mitten. During Mitten's examination by Black the old Captain continually referred
to the fact that the life preservers and other equipment of his boat had been stolen while
he was in jail. The discomfiture of the youthful prosecutor was quite evident.

J. H. Buel impeached the testimony of state's witness Judge Bell who had made the claim that
a filer at the Clark-Nickerson mill had been assaulted by a member of the I. W. W. Vanderveer
asked this witness:

"What was the name of the man assaulted?"

"Jimmy Cain."

"Who did it?"

"I did."

"Are you an I. W. W.?"

"No sir."

"Were you ever?"

"No sir."

Louis Skaroff followed with a detailed story of the murderous attack made upon him by Mayor
Merrill in the Everett jail, his story being unshaken when he was recalled and put thru a grilling
cross-examination.

William Roberts, who had been beaten and deported with Harry Feinberg, related his experience.
The childish questions of Black in regard to the idea of abolishing the wages system nettled
this witness and caused him to exclaim, "the trouble is that you don't understand the labor
movement."

James Orr then told of having his money stolen by the officials so they might pay the fares
of twenty-two deported men, and John Ovist followed with the tale of the slugging he had received
upon the same occasion that Feinberg, Roberts and Henig were assaulted.

Attorneys George W. Loutitt and Robert Faussett, of Everett, stated that the reputation of
McRae for sobriety was very bad. Both of these lawyers had resigned from the Commercial Club
upon its adoption of an open shop policy.

Thomas O'Niel testified regarding street meetings and other matters in connection with the
case. Cooley asked the witness how many people usually attended the meetings.

"It started in with rather small meetings," said the witness, "and then every time, as fast
as they were molested by the police, the crowd kept growing until at last the meetings were
between two and three thousand people."

The witness said he had read considerable about industrial unionism, and tho he was shocked
at first he had come to believe in it.

"Until now you are satisfied that their doctrines taken as a whole are proper and should be
promulgated and adopted by the working class?" inquired Cooley.

"In this way," answered O'Niel, "it was not the I. W. W. literature that convinced me so much
as the actions of the side that was fighting them."

"That is, you believe they were right because of the actions of the people on the other side?"
said Cooley.

"Yes," responded the witness, "because I think there are only two people interested in this
movement, the people carrying on the propaganda and the people fighting the propaganda, and
I saw the people who were fighting the propaganda use direct action, sabotage, and every power,
political and industrial, they used it all to whip this organization, and then I asked myself
why are they fighting this organization. And the more deeply I became interested, the more
clearly I saw why they were doing it, and that made me a believer in the I. W. W."

Mrs. Louise McGuire followed this witness with testimony about injuries she had received thru
the rough treatment accorded her by citizen deputies engaged in breaking up a street meeting.

W. H. Clay, Everett's Commissioner of Finance, was brought on the stand to testify that he
was present and active at the conference that resulted in the formation of the citizen deputies.

John Berg then related his experiences at the time he was taken to the outskirts of Everett
and deported after McRae had kicked him in the groin until a serious injury resulted. Owing
to the fact that the jury was a mixed one Berg was not permitted to exhibit the rupture. This
witness also told his experience on the "Wanderer" and his treatment in the jail upon his arrest.

Oscar Lindstrom then took the stand and corroborated the stories of the witnesses who had testified
about the shooting up of the "Wanderer" and the beating and jailing of its passengers. H. Sokol,
better known as "Happy," also told of his experience on the "Wanderer" and gave the facts of
the deportation that had taken place on August 23rd.

Irving W. Ziegaus, secretary to Governor Lister, testified that the letter concerning Everett
sent from the Seattle I. W. W. had been received; Steven M. Fowler identified certain telegrams
sent from Everett to Seattle officials by David Clough on November 5th; after which Chester
Micklin, who had been jailed in Everett following the tragedy, corroborated parts of the story
of Louis Skaroff.

The evidence of state's witness, Clyde Gibbons, was shattered at this stage of the trial by
the placing of Mrs. Lawrence MacArthur on the stand. This witness, the proprietor of the Merchants
Hotel in Everett, produced the hotel register for November 4th and showed that Mrs. Frennette
had registered at that time and was in the city when Gibbons claimed she was holding a conversation
in an apartment house on Yesler Way in Seattle.

The defense found it necessary to call witnesses who logically should have been brought forward
by the prosecution on their side of the case. Among these was the famous "Governor" Clough,
citizen deputy and open shop mill owner. David Clough unwillingly testified to having been
present at the deportation of twenty-two I. W. W. members on August 23rd, having gone down
to the dock at 8:30 that morning, and also to his interest in Joseph Schofield, the deputy
who had been injured by his brother outlaws on the dock just before the Beverly Park deportations.

Mahler and Micklin were recalled for some few additional questions, and were followed on the
stand by Herman Storm, who gave testimony about the brutal treatment received by himself and
his fellow passengers on the launch "Wanderer." John Hainey and Joseph Reaume also gave details
of this outrage.

"Sergeant" J. J. Keenan, who had become a familiar figure because of his "police" duty in the
outer court corridor from the inception of the trial, then took the witness stand and recounted
his experiences at Snohomish and Maltby, his every word carrying conviction that the sheriff
and his deputies had acted with the utmost brutality in spite of the advanced age of their
victim. John Patterson and Tom Thornton corroborated Keenan's testimony.

A surprise was sprung upon the prosecution at this juncture by the introduction on the witness
stand of George Kannow, a man who had been a deputy sheriff in Everett and who had been present
when many of the brutalities were going on. He told of the treatment of Berg after the "Wanderer"
arrests.

"He was struck and beaten and thrown down and knocked heavily against the steel sides of the
tank, his head striking on a large projecting lock. He was kicked by McRae and he hollered
'My God, you are killing me,' and McRae said he didn't give a damn whether he died or not,
and kicked him again and then shoved him into the tank."

The gauntlet at the county jail was described in detail and the spirit of the free speech fighters
was shown by this testimony:

"Yes, I heard some of them groan. They all took their medicine well, tho. They didn't holler
out but some of them would groan; some of them would go down pretty near to their knees and
then get up, then they would get sapped again as they got up. But they never made any real
outcries."

