Bromley Pagets was remarkable for a very singular sport on New Year's Day and Twelfth Day,
called the Hobby Horse Dance: a person rode upon the image of a horse, with a bow and arrow
in his hands, with which he made a snapping noise, keeping time with the music, whilst six
others danced the hay and other country dances, with as many rein-deer's heads on their shoulders.
To this hobby-horse belonged a pot, which the Reeves of the town kept and filled with cakes
and ale, towards which the spectators contributed a penny, and with the remainder maintained
their poor and repaired the church.--W.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOLY LAND.

Ramsey Island, near St. David's Head, is said to have been inhabited by so many saints, that
no less than twenty thousand are stated in ancient histories to lie interred there. Near this
place are the rocks styled the Bishop and his Clerks, which, says an ancient author "preache
deadly doctrine to their winter audience, such poor sea-faring men as are forcyd thether by
tempest, onelie in one thing they are to be commended, they keepe residence better than the
rest of the canons of that see (St. David's) are wont to do."

W.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT AGRICULTURAL SOCIETIES.

After the Britons retired into Wales, it was enacted that no man should guide a plough that
could not make one; and that the driver should make the ropes of twisted willows, with which
it was drawn. It was usual for six or eight persons to form themselves into a society for fitting
out one of these ploughs, providing it with oxen, and every thing necessary for ploughing;
and many curious laws were made for the regulation of such societies. If any person laid dung
on the field with the consent of the proprietor, he was by law allowed the use of that land
for one year. If the dung was carried out in a cart in great abundance, he was to have the
use of the land for three years. Whoever cut down a wood, and converted the ground into arable,
with the consent of the owner, was to have the use of it for five years. If any one folded
his cattle for one year, upon a piece of ground belonging to another, with the owner's consent,
he was allowed the use of the ground for four years. Thus, though the Britons had in a great
measure lost the knowledge of agriculture, they appear to have been very assiduous in giving
encouragement to such as would attempt the revival of it.

T. GILL.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

LANDERS' DISCOVERY OF THE TERMINATION OF THE NIGER.

We continue our extracts from this very entertaining work, the following being from the second
volume.

At Boossà, the travellers receive a visit from "the noted widow Zuma." She must be an Amazonian
lady, for, having quarrelled with her prince, the ruler of Wowow, she was obliged to fly, and
actually to climb over the city wall in the night, and travel on foot to Boossà. Her skin is
of a light copper colour." Should this meet the eye of any soldier of fortune, &c.

At Boossà, they hear some tidings of

  Mungo Park. We expressed
great curiosity to see this tobe, and it was sent us as a present a short
time after their departure. At all events,
the article is a curiosity in itself; and if we should live to return to
England, we shall easily learn whether it was made there or not. By this man he likewise sent a musket
for us to repair; but as it is Sunday, we have declined doing it till
to-morrow. This answer disappointed our hopes, for to us it
appeared final and decisive. Here the matter at present rests. The
inquiry, on our part, has not been prosecuted without much trouble and
anxiety, and some little personal sacrifices likewise, which, had they
been ten times as great, we would gladly have made whilst a single hope
remained of their being effectual."

After much ado at Boossà, owing to the canoe not being ready--the "King of the Canoe," a sort
of Lord of the Admiralty, informing the travellers with the utmost unconcern that it was out
of repair--they

 Embark on the Niger. This object was soon attained, and we found it flowing
from north to south, through a rich and charming country, which seemed to
improve in appearance the further we advanced. We were propelled at a good
rate up a channel, which, from half a mile in breadth, gradually widened
to rather better than a mile. Beautiful, spreading, and spiry trees
adorned the country on each side of the river, like a park; corn, nearly
ripe, waved over the water's edge; large, open villages appeared every
half-hour; and herds of spotted cattle were observed grazing and enjoying
the cool of the shade. The appearance of the river, for several miles, was
no less enchanting than its borders; it was as smooth as a lake; canoes
laden with sheep and goats, were paddled by women down its almost
imperceptible current; swallows, and a variety of aquatic birds, were
sporting over its glassy surface, which was ornamented by a number of
pretty little islands.

"Friday, June 25th.--The most remarkable object which we saw on rising this morning, was a
rugged and romantic range of hills, appearing to the eastward of our encampment; it is called
Engarskie, from a country of the same name in which the hills are situated, and which was formerly
an independent kingdom, but is now become a province of Yàoorie. At a little before seven,
A.M., our canoe was pushed off the sandy beach on which it had been secured last evening, and
propelled down a very narrow channel, between a large sand-bank and the shore. This conducted
us into the main branch of the Niger, and we again admired its delightful and magnificent appearance.
Afterwards, however, there was a decided change; the banks, which before consisted of dark
earth, clay, or sand, were now composed of black rugged rocks; large sand-banks and islands
were scattered in the river, which diverted it into a variety of little channels, and effectually
destroyed its appearance.

"We had heard so unfavourable an account of the state of the river at one particular place
which we should have to pass, that our people were compelled to disembark and walk along the
banks a considerable way till we had passed it, when we took them in again. We found the description
to be in no wise exaggerated; it presented a most forbidding appearance, and yields only to
the state of the Niger near Boossà in difficulty and danger. Our boatmen, with the assistance
of a number of the natives, who planted themselves on the rocks on each side of the only channel,
and in the stream at the stern of the canoe, lifted it by main force into smoother and safer
water. The last difficulty with respect to rocks and sand-banks was now overcome, and in a
very little time we came to the termination of all the islands, after which, it is said, there
is not a single dangerous place up the Niger. In the course of the morning we passed two lovely
little islands, clothed in verdure, which at a short distance looked as charming as the fabled
gardens of Hesperia; indeed no spot on earth can excel them in beauty of appearance. These
islands are inhabited by a few individuals."

The account of the Travellers' visit to Fernando Po, in the third volume, will be read with
interest, as indeed will every page of the whole narrative; and to this commendation of the
Messrs. Landers' Journal of their past adventures we cheerfully add our best wishes for the
success of their future enterprize.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONGS OF THE GIPSIES.

Among the musical novelties of the day, we notice with much pleasure, a pretty volume of Lyrics,
written by Mr. Moncrieff, the music by Mr. S. Nelson. The poetry is throughout sparkling and
characteristic, and "an Historical Introduction on the origin and customs of Gipsies," prefixed
to the Songs, is so attractive as to be likely to share the popularity of the piano-forte accompaniments.
It is written with considerable care and neatness, and the peculiar tact requisite to produce
an interesting paper on a dry subject.

We are only enabled to quote from the lyrics, an opening carol, as

  Liberty, liberty!
      Search the world round,
  'Tis with the Gipsy
      Alone thou art found.
  Then in the gay greenwood
      We worship thee now,
  The free, oh the free!
      Still live under the bough.

  Trarah! Trarah!
      Hark, the deep dingles ring,
  Free hearts, with the bird
      And the deer are on wing;
  Joy claims in the greenwood
      The Gipsy's glad vow,
  The blithe, oh the blithe!
      Still live under the bough.

And the first song entire.

THE GIPSY QUEEN.

  Oh! 'tis I am the Gipsy Queen!
    And where is there queen like me,
  That can revel upon the green,
    In boundless liberty?
  What though my cheek be brown,
    And wild my raven hair,
  A red cloth hood my crown,
    And my sceptre the wand I bear!
  Yet, 'tis I am the Gipsy Queen!

  With my kingdom I'm well content,
    Though my realm's but the hawthorn glade;
  And my palace a tatter'd tent
    Beneath the willow's shade:
  Though my banquet I'm forc'd to make
    On haws and berries store,
  And the game that by chance we take
    From some neighbouring hind's barn door!
  Yet, 'tis I am the Gipsy Queen!

  'Tis true I must ply my art,
    And share in my subjects' toils;
  But of all their gains I've part,
    I've the choice of all their spoils;
  And, by love and duty led,
    Ere from my jet black eye
  One sad tear should be shed,
    A thousand hearts would die!
  For, 'tis I am the Gipsy Queen!

From a volume of American Poetry, William Cullen Bryant.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the churchyard of Beaconsfield, Bucks, stands the above handsome tribute to the memory of
the celebrated poet and politician, EDMUND WALLER. The monument is of marble, with a pyramid
rising from the centre, and a votive urn at each corner. On the east side is a Latin inscription,
stating that Waller was born March 30, 1605, at Coleshill, in Hertfordshire; his father being
Robert Waller, Esq. (of Agmondelsham in Buckingham, whose family was originally a branch of
the Kentish Wallers,[5]) and his mother of the Hampden family; that he was a student at Cambridge;
"his first wife was Anne, only daughter and heiress to Edward Banks, twice made a father by
his first wife, and thirteen times by his second, whom he survived eight years; he died October
21, 1687." The original inscription is by Rymer, and is to be seen in most editions of the
poet's works. The monument was erected by the poet's son's executors, in 1700, and stands on
the east side of the churchyard, near the family vault. The above engraving is from a sketch,
obligingly furnished by our Correspondent, W.H. of Wycombe.

Waller was proprietor of the manor of Beaconsfield, and that of Hall Barn, in the vicinity,
at which latter place he resided.

It is remarkable, that this great man, toward the decline of life bought a small house, with
a little land, on his natal spot; observing, "that he should be glad to die like the stag,
where he was roused." This, however, did not happen.

    [5] Johnson's Life of Waller, wherein the poet is stated to have
        been born March 3.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

TROUT TICKLING IN IRELAND.

What will our ticklish correspondent, W.H.H. say to this?

"Kniveing trouts" (they call it tickling in England) is good sport. You go to a stony shallow
at night, a companion bearing a torch; then stripping to the thighs and shoulders, wade in;
grope with your hands under the stones, sods, and other harbourage, till you find your game,
then grip him in your "knieve," and toss him ashore.

I remember, when a boy, carrying the splits for a servant of the family, called Sam Wham. Now
Sam was an able young fellow, well-boned and willing; a hard headed cudgel player, and a marvellous
tough wrestler, for he had a backbone like a sea-serpent; this gained him the name of the Twister
and Twiner. He had got into the river, with his back to me, was stooping over a broad stone,
when something bolted from under the bank on which I stood, right through his legs. Sam fell
with a great splash upon his face, but in falling, jammed whatever it was against the stone.
"Let go, Twister," shouted I, "'tis an otter, he will nip a finger off you."--"Whisht," sputtered
he, as he slid his hand under the water; "May I never read a text again, if he isna a sawmont
wi' a shouther like a hog!"--"Grip him by the gills, Twister," cried I.--"Saul will I!" cried
the Twiner; but just then there was a heave, a roll, a splash, a slap like a pistol-shot; down
went Sam, and up went the salmon, spun like a shilling at pitch and toss, six feet into the
air. I leaped in just as he came to the water; but my foot caught between two stones, and the
more I pulled the firmer it stuck. The fish fell in a spot shallower than that from which he
had leaped. Sam saw the chance, and tackled to again: while I, sitting down in the stream as
best I might, held up my torch, and cried fair play, as shoulder to shoulder, throughout and
about, up and down, roll and tumble, to it they went, Sam and the salmon. The Twister was never
so twined before. Yet through crossbuttocks and capsizes innumerable, he still held on; now
haled through a pool; now haling up a bank; now heels over head; now head over heels; now head
and heels together; doubled up in a corner; but at last stretched fairly on his back, and foaming
for rage and disappointment; while the victorious salmon, slapping the stones with his tail,
and whirling the spray from his shoulders at every roll, came boring and snoring up the ford.
I tugged and strained to no purpose; he flashed by me with a snort, and slid into the deep
water. Sam now staggered forward with battered bones and peeled elbows, blowing like a grampus,
and cursing like nothing but himself. He extricated me, and we limped home. Neither rose for
a week; for I had a dislocated ankle, and the Twister was troubled with a broken rib. Poor
Sam! he had his brains discovered at last by a poker in a row, and was worm's meat within three
months; yet, ere he died, he had the satisfaction of feasting on his old antagonist, who was
man's meat next morning. They caught him in a net. Sam knew him by the twist in his tail.--Blackwood's
Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

DIAMONDS IN BRAZIL.

The operation of working for these precious jems is a very simple one. The alluvial soil (the
cascalhao) is dug up from the bed of the river, and removed to a convenient spot on the banks
for working. The process is as follows:--a rancho is erected about a hundred feet long, and
half that distance in width; down the middle of the area is conveyed a canal, covered with
earth; on the other side of the area is a flooring of planks, about sixteen feet in length,
extending the whole length of the shed, and to which an inclined direction is given; this flooring
is divided into troughs, into which is thrown a portion of the cascalhao; the water is then
let in, and the earth raked until the water becomes clear; the earthy particles having been
washed away, the gravel is raked up to the end of the trough; the largest stones are thrown
out, and afterwards the smaller ones, the whole is then examined with great care for diamonds.
When a negro finds one, he claps his hands, stands in an erect posture, holding the diamond
between his fore-finger and thumb; it is received by one of the overseers posted on lofty seats,
at equal distances, along the line of the work. On the conclusion of the work, the diamonds
found during the day are weighed, and registered by the overseer en chef. If a negro has the
good fortune to find a stone weighing upwards of seventeen carats, he is immediately manumitted,
and for smaller stones proportionate premiums are given. There are, besides, several other
works on this river, and on other streams, but the supply of diamonds falls now considerably
short of former periods, and their produce scarcely defrays the expenses.

The Diamond District of the Serro do Frio is about twenty leagues in length, and nine in breadth;
the soil is barren, but intersected by numerous streams. It was first discovered by some miners,
shortly after the establishment of the Villa do Principe. In working for gold in the rivulets
of Milho Verde and St. Goncalzes, they discovered some pebbles of geometric form, and of a
peculiar hue and lustre. For some years these pebbles were given as pretty baubles to children,
or used as counters for marking the points of their favourite game of voltarete. At last an
officer, who had been some years at Goa, in the East Indies, arrived in the Commarca: he was
struck with the peculiar form of these pebbles, and from several experiments he made, it struck
him that they were diamonds. He immediately collected a few, and sent them to Holland, where,
to the astonishment of the lapidaries, they were found to be brilliants of the finest water.
It will easily be imagined, that on the arrival of this intelligence in Brazil, the hitherto
despised counters suddenly became the objects of universal research, and almost immediately
disappeared.

The government of Portugal now issued a decree, declaring all diamonds a monopoly of the crown.
For a length of time it was considered that diamonds were confined solely to the district of
Serro Frio. But this is an error; they are found in almost every part of the empire, particularly
in the remote provinces of Goyazes and Matto Grosso, where there exist several districtos diamantescos.
These gems have been even found on the tops of the highest mountains; indeed, it is the opinion
of the Brazilian mineralogists that the original diamond formations are in the mountains, and
that they will one day or other be discovered in such quantities, as to render them objects
of comparatively small value.

The largest diamond in the world was found in the river Abaite; about ninety-two leagues to
N.W. of Serro do Frio. The history of its discovery is romantic:--three Brazilians, Ant. de
Souza, Jose Felix Gomes, and Thomas de Souza, were sentenced, for some supposed misdemeanour,
to perpetual banishment in the wildest part of the interior. Their sentence was a cruel one;
but the region of their exile was the richest in the world; every river rolled over a bed of
gold, every valley contained inexhaustible mines of diamonds. A suspicion of this kind enabled
these unfortunate men to support the horrors of their fate; they were constantly sustained
by the golden hope of discovering some rich mine, that would produce a reversion of their hard
sentence. Thus they wandered about for nearly six years, in quest of mines; but fortune was
at last propitious. An excessive draught had laid dry the bed of the river Abaite, and here,
while working for gold, they discovered a diamond of nearly an ounce in weight. Overwhelmed
with joy at this providential discovery, they resolved to proceed, at all hazards, to Villa
Rica, and trust to the mercy of the crown. The governor, on beholding the magnitude and lustre
of the gem, could scarcely credit the evidence of his senses. He immediately appointed a commission
of the officers of the Diamond District to report on its nature; and on their pronouncing it
a real diamond, it was immediately dispatched to Lisbon. It is needless to add that the sentence
of the three "condemnados" was immediately reversed.

This celebrated diamond has been estimated by Romé de l'Isle at the enormous sum of three hundred
millions sterling. It is uncut, but the late King of Portugal, who had a passion for precious
stones, had a hole bored through it, in order to wear it suspended about his neck on gala days.
No sovereign possessed so fine a collection of diamonds as this prince.--Monthly Mag.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

AMERICAN LIFE.

Pig Scavengers.

American English.

Mr. Bullock.

"Mr. Bullock was showing to some gentlemen of the first standing, the very élite of Cincinnati,
his beautiful collection of engravings, when one among them exclaimed, 'Have you really done
all these since you came here? How hard you must have worked!'"

Cows.

Health of Cincinnati.

Marketing.

Moving Houses.

Social distinctions.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COSMOPOLITE.

SUPERSTITIONS, FABLES, &c. RELATIVE TO ANIMALS.

(Concluded from page 213.)

The oriental fable of the Roc has its probable origin in the condor, which is undoubtedly the
largest and strongest bird of the vulture tribe in existence, and extremely ravenous. Minerva's
bird, the Owl, is well known as one of ill omen; besides the superstitious idea that the screech-owl
foretells death by its cry, it was formerly believed to suck the blood of children. The Mongol
and Calmuc Tartars have held the White Owl sacred since the days of Genghis Khan, when a bird
of this species having settled on a bush in which that prince had hidden himself from his enemies,
those who pursued him past it, not believing that a bird would perch on a bush wherein a man
was concealed. The Raven has ever been considered by the vulgar as a bird of evil omen, the
indicator of misfortunes and death; and, indeed, the superstition is but consonant with a bird
of such funereal note and hue, and exhibiting such goule-like propensities. The Swedes, however,
regard it as sacred, and no one offers to molest it. In the north of England, one Magpie flying
alone, is deemed an ill omen; two together, a fortunate one; three forebode a funeral, and
four a wedding; or, when on a journey, to meet two magpies portends a wedding; three, a successful
journey; four, unexpected good news; and five, that the person will soon be in company with
the great. To kill a magpie, indicates or brings down some terrible misfortune. The Sparrow
Hawk was sacred with the Egyptians, and the symbol of Osiris. The Yellow Hammer is superstitiously
considered an agent diablerie. The Wheat-Ear is, in the Highlands, a detested bird, and fancied
one of evil omen, on account of its frequenting old churchyards, where it nestles amongst the
stones, and finds plenty of insects for food. The Woodcock is, we believe, the bird imagined
to drop, in its proper season, from the moon. It is a vulgar error, that the song of the Nightingale
is melancholy, and that it only sings by night; but to hear the Cuckoo before the Nightingale
has been long deemed an unsuccessful omen in love: the saliva of the cuckoo has been thought
to preserve all it falls upon.

  "The Robin and the Wren
  Are God Almighty's cock and hen,"

says the old distich, and whilst it is reckoned wicked to kill either of these (not but that
there is an ancient custom of "hunting the wren" still kept up, we believe, in some parts of
this country,) it is considered unlucky to kill a Swallow, or House-Martin. The King-fisher
is the Halcyon of the ancients, who imagined that during the process of incubation by the female
the sea remained unvexed by storms; hence "halcyon days." The feathers of this bird are employed
by the Tartars for many superstitious purposes; they consider them amulets of priceless value,
enabling them to inspire women with love. In more civilized countries it was once believed,
that if the body of a kingfisher were suspended by a thread, some magnetic influence would
turn its breast to the north: others thought it a preserver of woollen cloths from moths. The
Albatross (by some considered the kingfisher or halcyon,) is fabled to sleep in the air, never
to touch the earth; and to kill one is reckoned supremely unlucky. There is an Indian bird,
the name of which has unfortunately escaped us, that is feigned to live only on the rain-drops
which it can draw with its bill from the clouds; in a dry season, therefore, this bird perishes.
Of the Bird of Paradise the following wonders were once credited: viz. that the egg was laid
in the air by the female, and there hatched by the male in an orifice of his body; that it
had no legs (these however are long, and a disfigurement to the body, which the Indians know,
and fearful of their depreciating the value of the bird, upon capturing it, cut them off);
that it hung itself by the two long feathers of its tail on a tree when sleeping; that it never
touched the ground during any period of its existence, and fed wholly on dew. The Indians also
believe that the leader, or king of the birds of paradise is black, with red spots, and that
he soars far away from the rest of the flock, which, however, never quit him, but settle where
he does. The Gigantic Crane is believed by the Indians to be invulnerable, and animated by
the souls of deceased Brahmins; the Africans hold it in equal veneration. Whence arises the
classical fable that swans sing their own dirge just previous to death, and expire singing
it? The wild swan certainly may be said to whistle, but the tame has no other note than a hiss,
and this only when provoked. The Kamschatdales and Kuriles wear round their necks the bills
of Puffins, as an amulet which ensures good fortune. Who was Mother Carey?--The wife, perhaps,
of "Davy," and keeper of his "locker;" Mother Carey's chickens is the well-known appellation,
in tarrish tongue, of Stormy Petrels, not superstitiously supposed to forebode tempests, since
they seem their very element; but it is probable that to Mother Carey herself (we crave her
pardon--Mistress) some astounding "yarn" is attached. The Stork, the Crane, and the Pelican,
are each the subject of idle stories; the latter has been asserted to feed her young with her
own bosom's blood, and to fill her pouch with water in order to supply them in the desert.
A notion is entertained by the ignorant that the Bittern thrusts its bill into a reed, which
serves as a pipe to increase the volume of its natural note, and swell it above pitch; and
in some places a tradition prevails that it thrusts its head into water and then blows with
all its might. It is erroneous that the Ostrich lays her eggs in the sand, depending solely
on the sun's rays to hatch them; the truth is that, as from the heat of her native climate,
it is not always necessary for her to sit upon them, she simply does what numerous birds in
colder latitudes are well known to do; viz. cover them, that they may not, during her absence,
lose their heat.

The popular opinion that the Turtle Dove, of either sex, should it happen to lose its mate,
remains ever after in a state of disconsolate celibacy, is, we believe, disproved by the fact,
at least as respects these birds in a wild state; but we may remark, that the loss of a companion
to more than one kind of domesticated bird, if it has been brought up with one, even though
not in the same cage, is sometimes so severely deplored by the survivor, as to occasion its
death, if the loss be not speedily supplied. The old story of Swallows passing the winter in
a state of torpidity at the bottom of rivers, lakes, and ponds, has been frequently agitated,
asserted to be a fact by one party, and totally disproved by the other. The reader may be amused
to learn, that very recently we were assured by one, who knew it for an absolute fact, that
ducks and even chickens (!!!) had been found in a certain farmer's pond, laid up in winter
quarters, which were revived by the warmth of the sun and upper air, upon being fished out
of it!! "Regarding Birds' Eggs," says the Naturalist in his interesting Journal, "we have a
very foolish superstition here (Gloucestershire:) the boys may take them unrestrained, but
their mothers so dislike their being kept in the house, that they usually break them; their
presence may be tolerated for a few days, but by the ensuing Sunday they are frequently destroyed,
under the idea that they bring bad luck, or prevent the coming of good fortune, as if in some
way offensive to the domestic deity of the hearth."

Here, then, we pause; some abler hand may, perhaps, be tempted to take up the subject as we
leave it, for there are yet gleanings, in the field, of "Superstitions and Fables connected
with animals," over which our leisure has allowed us but lightly to pass; gleanings sufficient
to reward the industrious and the curious; or, it may even be, that we shall return, some day,
to this topic ourselves, time and materials permitting.

Great Marlow, Bucks. M.L.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

Congreve Rockets.--When the Congreve rockets were first introduced into the navy, the admiral
on the Brazil station proposed to exhibit to the king, Don Juan VI., the effect of these formidable
projectiles. His majesty consented, and the whole court were accordingly assembled in the balconies
of the palace, at the Rio, for the purpose of witnessing the spectacle. By some mishap, of
very frequent occurrence in the early history of these missiles, at the moment of firing the
tube veered round, and the rocket, instead of flying over to Praia Grande, took the opposite
direction, and fell and exploded in the great square, almost beneath the windows of the palace.
The consternation of the king was only equalled by the mortification of the admiral, who immediately
despatched an officer on shore to explain the cause of the contretemps to his majesty; and
offering to let off another, but the terrified monarch would not hear of it. "I have a great
respect," said he, "for my good allies, the English, but after dinner they are absolutely fit
for nothing;" an observation which clearly indicated to what cause his majesty attributed the
unfortunate result of the exhibition.--Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

Prosperity of America.--The United States of N. America posses an almost undefinable extent
of fertile uncultivated land--a highly industrious and intelligent population of 13,000,000--the
national debt will be paid this year--and they have a large surplus revenue. That of 1831 was
27,700,000 Spanish dollars; the expenditure for all government purposes 14,700,000.

       *       *       *       *       *

War.--Were the disputes between great and rival nations to be settled by single combat, by
those, through whose ambition, pride, or other cause, they were occasioned, millions of lives
might have been saved.

       *       *       *       *       *

Curious Custom.--There is held in Italy, a kind of feast, or ceremony, in the courts of certain
princes, on St. Nicholas's Day, in which people hide presents in the shoes or slippers of those
they would do honour to; in such a manner as to surprise them on the morrow, when they come
to dress. It is done in imitation of the practice of St. Nicholas; who used, in the night time,
to throw purses of money in at the windows, for portions to poor maidens on their marriage. P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

Experience.--It often happens that the more we see into a man, the less we admire him.--Pliny.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Romans were so anxious to encourage marriage, that they punished unmarried persons by rendering
them incapable of receiving any legacy, or inheritance by will, except from near relatives.
And those who were married, and had not any children, could take no more than half the estate.

       *       *       *       *       *

Etruscan Vases.--The art of making earthenware was transported from Etruria into Greece. The
Romans also borrowed this invention from the Etruscans, to whom also Greece was indebted for
many of its ceremonies and religious institutions, as well as for its mechanics and artificers.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is customary in the canton Wallis, Switzerland, for those who have found anything lost,
even money, to affix it to a large crucifix in the churchyard, and there is not an example
on record, of any object being taken away except by the rightful owner. W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cumberland Titles.--The honorary titles arising from the different degrees of allowed consequence
or property in Cumberland, appear (says Britton) singular when compared with their usual acceptation
in society. The mistress of the house is a Dame; every owner of a little landed property is
a 'Statesman; his eldest son is the Laird; and where there is no son, the eldest daughter is
born to the title of Leady. Thus we may see a 'Statesman driving the plough, a Lord attending
the market with vegetables, and a Leady labouring at the churn. P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

A string of echo puns surpassing all others, may be seen in a scarce work, published in the
reign of James I. A specimen--a divine, willing to play more with words, than to be serious
in the expounding of his text, spoke thus in one part of the sermon:--"This dyall shewes we
must die all; yet, notwithstanding, all howses are turned into ale-houses; our cares are turned
into cates; our paradise, into, a pair of dice; our marriage, into a merry age; our matrimony,
into a matter of money; our divines, into dry vines.

"Done at the office of Mr. John Bull's Chief Decypherer, Turnagain Lane, Circumbendibus Street,
Obscurity Square, Feb. 18, 1796."

       *       *       *       *       *

Cheap Soup.--Take ten quarts of water, and stir it with a rush-light till it boils; season
it to your liking, and it is ready for use. N.B. The wick may be bolted.--Monthly Mag.

       *       *       *       *       *

Epitaph on the death of Miss Eliza More, aged 14.

  Here lies who never lied before,
  And one who will never lie More,
  To which there need no more be said
  Than More the pity she is dead,
  For when alive she charmed us More
  Than all the Mores just gone before.[6]

    [6] Her two sisters dying some months before.

       *       *       *       *       *

On Anne Green, a Quakeress.

  Here lies a piece of Christ, a star in dust,
  A wedge of gold, a china dish that must
  Be used in heaven, when Christ doth feed the just.

       *       *       *       *       *

Inscribed on the back door of a Tavern, which opened into the Parish Church of St. Michael's,
Cambridge, kept by Mr. Burrell, 1639: which door is now taken down, the tavern having been
pulled down, and a new street built on its site.

  Go on by leave, no way here lies:
    But way and leave to those
  That hast to taste good wine and fine,
    And fear not Burrell's foes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Copied from the Churchwarden's Book.

The Mother Tongue.--In Mr. Combe's Illustrations of Phrenology, a case is related of a Welsh
milkman, in London, who happening to fall down two pair of stairs, received a severe contusion
on the head, and was carried to St. George's Hospital, where he lay senseless for several days,
and unable to speak. At length he became something better, and began to talk to the nurses,
but in such terms that no one could understand him, till it was discovered that he had forgotten
his English, and was talking Welsh; a language he had not spoken for eighteen years. Mr. Combe
conceives that the blow having hit the store-house in his head, where the Welsh language was
garnered, his youthful acquisitions were poured out, whilst the English language, which he
had learned much later, was overpowered and obliterated by the force of his mother tongue. W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

Warning to Betrayers.--St. Bennet's Abbey, in Norfolk, was so well fortified, that William
the Conqueror, in vain besieged it, till a monk, upon condition of being made abbot, betrayed
the place. The king performed the condition, but hanged the new abbot as a traitor.