24. I dined to-day with a hedge(2) friend in the City; and Walls overtook me in the street,
and told me he was just getting on horseback for Chester. He has as much curiosity as a cow:
he lodged with his horse in Aldersgate Street: he has bought his wife a silk gown, and himself
a hat. And what are you doing? what is poor MD doing now? how do you pass your time at Wexford?
how do the waters agree with you? Let Presto know soon; for Presto longs to know, and must
know. Is not Madam Proby curious company? I am afraid this rainy weather will spoil your waters.
We have had a great deal of wet these three days. Tell me all the particulars of Wexford: the
place, the company, the diversions, the victuals, the wants, the vexations. Poor Dingley never
saw such a place in her life; sent all over the town for a little parsley to a boiled chicken,
and it was not to be had; the butter is stark naught, except an old English woman's; and it
is such a favour to get a pound from her now and then! I am glad you carried down your sheets
with you, else you must have lain in sackcloth. O Lord!

25. What, I must stand up for the honour of the fair sex! 'Tis true the fellow had lain with
her a hundred times before, but what care I for that! What, must a woman be ravished because
she is a whore?--The Secretary and I go on Saturday to Windsor for a week. I dined with Lord
Treasurer, and stayed with him till past ten. I was to-day at his levee, where I went against
my custom, because I had a mind to do a good office for a gentleman: so I talked with him before
my lord, that he might see me, and then found occasion to recommend him this afternoon. I was
forced to excuse my coming to the levee, that I did it to see the sight; for he was going to
chide me away: I had never been there but once, and that was long before he was Treasurer.
The rooms were all full, and as many Whigs as Tories. He whispered me a jest or two, and bid
me come to dinner. I left him but just now; and 'tis late.

26. Mr. Addison and I have at last met again. I dined with him and Steele to-day at young Jacob
Tonson's. The two Jacobs(3) think it is I who have made the Secretary take from them the printing
of the Gazette, which they are going to lose, and Ben Tooke and another(4) are to have it.
Jacob came to me the other day, to make his court; but I told him it was too late, and that
it was not my doing. I reckon they will lose it in a week or two. Mr. Addison and I talked
as usual, and as if we had seen one another yesterday; and Steele and I were very easy, though
I writ him lately a biting letter, in answer to one of his, where he desired me to recommend
a friend of his to Lord Treasurer. Go, get you gone to your waters, sirrah. Do they give you
a stomach? Do you eat heartily?--We have had much rain to-day and yesterday.

27. I dined to-day in the City, and saw poor Patty Rolt, and gave her a pistole to help her
a little forward against she goes to board in the country. She has but eighteen pounds a year
to live on, and is forced to seek out for cheap places. Sometimes they raise their price, and
sometimes they starve her, and then she is forced to shift. Patrick the puppy put too much
ink in my standish,(5) and, carrying too many things together, I spilled it on my paper and
floor. The town is dull, wet, and empty; Wexford is worth two of it; I hope so at least, and
that poor little MD finds it so. I reckon upon going to Windsor to-morrow with Mr. Secretary,
unless he changes his mind, or some other business prevents him. I shall stay there a week, I hope.

28. Morning. Mr. Secretary sent me word he will call at my lodgings by two this afternoon,
to take me to Windsor; so I must dine nowhere; and I promised Lord Treasurer to dine with him
to-day; but I suppose we shall dine at Windsor at five, for we make but three hours there.(6)
I am going abroad, but have left Patrick to put up my things, and to be sure to be at home
half an hour before two.--Windsor, at night. We did not leave London till three, and dined
here between six and seven; at nine I left the company, and went to see Lord Treasurer, who
is just come. I chid him for coming so late; he chid me for not dining with him; said he stayed
an hour for me. Then I went and sat with Mr. Lewis till just now, and it is past eleven. I
lie in the same house with the Secretary, one of the Prebendary's houses. The Secretary is
not come from his apartment in the Castle. Do you think that abominable dog Patrick was out
after two to-day, and I in a fright every moment, for fear the chariot should come; and when
he came in, he had not put up one rag of my things! I never was in a greater passion, and would
certainly have cropped one of his ears, if I had not looked every moment for the Secretary,
who sent his equipage to my lodging before, and came in a chair from Whitehall to me, and happened
to stay half an hour later than he intended. One of Lord Treasurer's servants gave me a letter
to-night: I found it was from ----, with an offer of fifty pounds, to be paid me in what manner
I pleased; because, he said, he desired to be well with me. I was in a rage;(7) but my friend
Lewis cooled me, and said it is what the best men sometimes meet with; and I have been not
seldom served in the like manner, although not so grossly. In these cases I never demur a moment,
nor ever found the least inclination to take anything. Well, I will go try to sleep in my new
bed, and to dream of poor Wexford MD, and Stella that drinks water, and Dingley that drinks ale.

29. We had a dunce to preach before the Queen to-day, which often happens. Windsor is a delicious
situation, but the town is scoundrel. I have this morning got the Gazette for Ben Tooke and
one Barber a printer; it will be about three hundred pounds a year between them. The other
fellow was printer of the Examiner, which is now laid down.(8) I dined with the Secretary:
we were a dozen in all, three Scotch lords, and Lord Peterborow. The Duke of Hamilton(9) would
needs be witty, and hold up my train as I walked upstairs. It is an ill circumstance that on
Sundays much company always meet at the great tables. Lord Treasurer told at Court what I said
to Mr. Secretary on this occasion. The Secretary showed me his bill of fare, to encourage me
to dine with him. "Poh," said I, "show me a bill of company, for I value not your dinner."
See how this is all blotted,(10) I can write no more here, but to tell you I love MD dearly,
and God bless them.

30. In my conscience, I fear I shall have the gout. I sometimes feel pains about my feet and
toes: I never drank till within these two years, and I did it to cure my head. I often sit
evenings with some of these people, and drink in my turn; but I am now resolved to drink ten
times less than before; but they advise me to let what I drink be all wine, and not to put
water to it. Tooke and the printer stayed to-day to finish their affair, and treated me and
two of the Under Secretaries upon their getting the Gazette. Then I went to see Lord Treasurer,
and chid him for not taking notice of me at Windsor. He said he kept a place for me yesterday
at dinner, and expected me there; but I was glad I did not go, because the Duke of Buckingham
was there, and that would have made us acquainted; which I have no mind to. However, we appointed
to sup at Mr. Masham's, and there stayed till past one o'clock; and that is late, sirrahs:
and I have much business.

31. I have sent a noble haunch of venison this afternoon to Mrs. Vanhomrigh: I wish you had
it, sirrahs. I dined gravely with my landlord the Secretary. The Queen was abroad to-day in
order to hunt; but, finding it disposed to rain, she kept in her coach; she hunts in a chaise
with one horse, which she drives herself, and drives furiously, like Jehu, and is a mighty
hunter, like Nimrod. Dingley has heard of Nimrod, but not Stella, for it is in the Bible. I
was to-day at Eton, which is but just cross the bridge, to see my Lord Kerry's son,(11) who
is at school there. Mr. Secretary has given me a warrant for a buck; I can't send it to MD.
It is a sad thing, faith, considering how Presto loves MD, and how MD would love Presto's venison
for Presto's sake. God bless the two dear Wexford girls!

Aug. 1. We had for dinner the fellow of that haunch of venison I sent to London; 'twas mighty
fat and good, and eight people at dinner; that was bad. The Queen and I were going to take
the air this afternoon, but not together; and were both hindered by a sudden rain. Her coaches
and chaises all went back, and the guards too; and I scoured into the market-place for shelter.
I intended to have walked up the finest avenue I ever saw, two miles long, with two rows of
elms on each side. I walked in the evening a little upon the terrace, and came home at eight:
Mr. Secretary came soon after, and we were engaging in deep discourse, and I was endeavouring
to settle some points of the greatest consequence, and had wormed myself pretty well into him,
when his Under Secretary came in (who lodges in the same house with us) and interrupted all
my scheme. I have just left him: it is late, etc.

2. I have been now five days at Windsor, and Patrick has been drunk three times that I have
seen, and oftener I believe. He has lately had clothes that have cost me five pounds, and the
dog thinks he has the whip-hand of me: he begins to master me; so now I am resolved to part
with him, and will use him without the least pity. The Secretary and I have been walking three
or four hours to-day. The Duchess of Shrewsbury(12) asked him, was not that Dr.--Dr.--and she
could not say my name in English, but said Dr. Presto, which is Italian for Swift. Whimsical
enough, as Billy Swift(13) says. I go to-morrow with the Secretary to his house at Bucklebury,
twenty-five miles from hence, and return early on Sunday morning. I will leave this letter
behind me locked up, and give you an account of my journey when I return. I had a letter yesterday
from the Bishop of Clogher, who is coming up to his Parliament. Have you any correspondence
with him to Wexford? Methinks, I now long for a letter from you, dated Wexford, July 24, etc.
O Lord, that would be so pretending;(14) and then, says you, Stella can't write much, because
it is bad to write when one drinks the waters; and I think, says you, I find myself better
already, but I cannot tell yet whether it be the journey or the waters. Presto is so silly
to-night; yes he be; but Presto loves MD dearly, as hope saved.

3. Morning. I am to go this day at noon, as I told you, to Bucklebury: we dine at twelve, and
expect to be there in four hours. I cannot bid you good-night now, because I shall be twenty-five
miles from this paper to-night, and so my journal must have a break; so good-morrow, etc.

4, 5. I dined yesterday at Bucklebury, where we lay two nights, and set out this morning at
eight, and were here at twelve; in four hours we went twenty-six miles. Mr. Secretary was a
perfect country gentleman at Bucklebury: he smoked tobacco with one or two neighbours; he inquired
after the wheat in such a field; he went to visit his hounds, and knew all their names; he
and his lady saw me to my chamber just in the country fashion. His house is in the midst of
near three thousand pounds a year he had by his lady,(15) who is descended from Jack Newbury,
of whom books and ballads are written; and there is an old picture of him in the house. She
is a great favourite of mine. I lost church to-day; but I dressed and shaved, and went to Court,
and would not dine with the Secretary, but engaged myself to a private dinner with Mr. Lewis,
and one friend more. We go to London to-morrow; for Lord Dartmouth, the other Secretary, is
come, and they are here their weeks by turns.

6. Lord Treasurer comes every Saturday to Windsor, and goes away on Monday or Tuesday. I was
with him this morning at his levee, for one cannot see him otherwise here, he is so hurried:
we had some talk; and I told him I would stay this week at Windsor by myself, where I can have
more leisure to do some business that concerns them. Lord Treasurer and the Secretary thought
to mortify me; for they told me they had been talking a great deal of me to-day to the Queen,
and she said she had never heard of me. I told them that was their fault, and not hers, etc.,
and so we laughed. I dined with the Secretary, and let him go to London at five without me;
and here am I alone in the Prebendary's house, which Mr. Secretary has taken; only Mr. Lewis
is in my neighbourhood, and we shall be good company. The Vice-Chamberlain,(16) and Mr. Masham,
and the Green Cloth,(17) have promised me dinners. I shall want but four till Mr. Secretary
returns. We have a music-meeting in our town to-night. I went to the rehearsal of it, and there
was Margarita,(18) and her sister, and another drab, and a parcel of fiddlers: I was weary,
and would not go to the meeting, which I am sorry for, because I heard it was a great assembly.
Mr. Lewis came from it, and sat with me till just now; and 'tis late.

7. I can do no business, I fear, because Mr. Lewis, who has nothing or little to do here, sticks
close to me. I dined today with the gentlemen ushers, among scurvy company; but the Queen was
hunting the stag till four this afternoon, and she drove in her chaise above forty miles, and
it was five before we went to dinner. Here are fine walks about this town. I sometimes walk
up the avenue.

8. There was a Drawing-room to-day at Court; but so few company, that the Queen sent for us
into her bed-chamber, where we made our bows, and stood about twenty of us round the room,
while she looked at us round with her fan in her mouth, and once a minute said about three
words to some that were nearest her, and then she was told dinner was ready, and went out.
I dined at the Green Cloth, by Mr. Scarborow's(19) invitation, who is in waiting. It is much
the best table in England, and costs the Queen a thousand pounds a month while she is at Windsor
or Hampton Court, and is the only mark of magnificence or hospitality I can see in the Queen's
family: it is designed to entertain foreign Ministers, and people of quality, who come to see
the Queen, and have no place to dine at.

9. Mr. Coke, the Vice-Chamberlain, made me a long visit this morning, and invited me to dinner;
but the toast, his lady,(20) was unfortunately engaged to Lady Sunderland.(21) Lord Treasurer
stole here last night, but did not lie at his lodgings in the Castle; and, after seeing the
Queen, went back again. I just drank a dish of chocolate with him. I fancy I shall have reason
to be angry with him very soon; but what care I? I believe I shall die with Ministries in my
debt.--This night I received a certain letter from a place called Wexford, from two dear naughty
girls of my acquaintance; but, faith, I will not answer it here, no in troth. I will send this
to Mr. Reading, supposing it will find you returned; and I hope better for the waters.

10. Mr. Vice-Chamberlain lent me his horses to ride about and see the country this morning.
Dr. Arbuthnot, the Queen's physician and favourite, went out with me to show me the places:
we went a little after the Queen, and overtook Miss Forester,(22) a maid of honour, on her
palfrey, taking the air; we made her go along with us. We saw a place they have made for a
famous horse-race to-morrow, where the Queen will come. We met the Queen coming back, and Miss
Forester stood, like us, with her hat off while the Queen went by. The Doctor and I left the
lady where we found her, but under other conductors; and we dined at a little place he has
taken, about a mile off.--When I came back I found Mr. Scarborow had sent all about to invite
me to the Green Cloth, and lessened his company on purpose to make me easy. It is very obliging,
and will cost me thanks. Much company is come to town this evening, to see to-morrow's race.
I was tired with riding a trotting mettlesome horse a dozen miles, having not been on horseback
this twelvemonth. And Miss Forester did not make it easier; she is a silly true maid of honour,
and I did not like her, although she be a toast, and was dressed like a man.(23)

11. I will send this letter to-day. I expect the Secretary by noon. I will not go to the race
unless I can get room in some coach. It is now morning. I must rise, and fold up and seal my
letter. Farewell, and God preserve dearest MD.

I believe I shall leave this town on Monday.

LETTER 28.

WINDSOR, Aug. 11, 1711.

I sent away my twenty-seventh this morning in an express to London, and directed to Mr. Reading:
this shall go to your lodgings, where I reckon you will be returned before it reaches you.
I intended to go to the race(1) to-day, but was hindered by a visit: I believe I told you so
in my last. I dined to-day at the Green Cloth, where everybody had been at the race but myself,
and we were twenty in all, and very noisy company; but I made the Vice-Chamberlain and two
friends more sit at a side table, to be a little quiet. At six I went to see the Secretary,
who is returned; but Lord Keeper sent to desire I would sup with him, where I stayed till just
now: Lord Treasurer and Secretary were to come to us, but both failed. 'Tis late, etc.

12. I was this morning to visit Lord Keeper, who made me reproaches that I had never visited
him at Windsor. He had a present sent him of delicious peaches, and he was champing and champing,
but I durst not eat one; I wished Dingley had some of them, for poor Stella can no more eat
fruit than Presto. Dilly Ashe is come to Windsor; and after church I carried him up to the
drawing-room, and talked to the Keeper and Treasurer, on purpose to show them to him; and he
saw the Queen and several great lords, and the Duchess of Montagu;(2) he was mighty happy,
and resolves to fill a letter to the Bishop.(3) My friend Lewis and I dined soberly with Dr.
Adams,(4) the only neighbour prebendary. One of the prebendaries here is lately a peer, by
the death of his father. He is now Lord Willoughby of Broke,(5) and will sit in the House of
Lords with his gown. I supped to-night at Masham's with Lord Treasurer, Mr. Secretary, and
Prior. The Treasurer made us stay till twelve, before he came from the Queen, and 'tis now
past two.

13. I reckoned upon going to London to-day; but by an accident the Cabinet Council did not
sit last night, and sat to-day, so we go to-morrow at six in the morning. I missed the race
to-day by coming out too late, when everybody's coach was gone, and ride I would not: I felt
my last riding three days after. We had a dinner to-day at the Secretary's lodgings without
him: Mr. Hare,(6) his Under Secretary, Mr. Lewis, Brigadier Sutton,(7) and I, dined together;
and I made the Vice-Chamberlain take a snap with us, rather than stay till five for his lady,
who was gone to the race. The reason why the Cabinet Council was not held last night was because
Mr. Secretary St. John would not sit with your Duke of Somerset.(8) So to-day the Duke was
forced to go to the race while the Cabinet was held. We have music-meetings in our town, and
I was at the rehearsal t'other day; but I did not value it, nor would go to the meeting. Did
I tell you this before?

London, 14. We came to town this day in two hours and forty minutes: twenty miles are nothing
here. I found a letter from the Archbishop of Dublin, sent me the Lord knows how. He says some
of the bishops will hardly believe that Lord Treasurer got the Queen to remit the First-Fruits
before the Duke of Ormond was declared Lord Lieutenant, and that the bishops have written a
letter to Lord Treasurer to thank him. He has sent me the address of the Convocation, ascribing,
in good part, that affair to the Duke, who had less share in it than MD; for if it had not
been for MD, I should not have been so good a solicitor. I dined to-day in the City, about
a little bit of mischief, with a printer.--I found Mrs. Vanhomrigh all in combustion, squabbling
with her rogue of a landlord; she has left her house, and gone out of our neighbourhood a good
way. Her eldest daughter is come of age, and going to Ireland to look after her fortune, and
get it in her own hands.(9)

15. I dined to-day with Mrs. Van, who goes to-night to her new lodgings. I went at six to see
Lord Treasurer; but his company was gone, contrary to custom, and he was busy, and I was forced
to stay some time before I could see him. We were together hardly an hour, and he went away,
being in haste. He desired me to dine with him on Friday, because there would be a friend of
his that I must see: my Lord Harley told me, when he was gone, that it was Mrs. Masham his
father meant, who is come to town to lie-in, and whom I never saw, though her husband is one
of our Society. God send her a good time! her death would be a terrible thing.(10)--Do you
know that I have ventured all my credit with these great Ministers, to clear some misunderstandings
betwixt them; and if there be no breach, I ought to have the merit of it. 'Tis a plaguy ticklish
piece of work, and a man hazards losing both sides. It is a pity the world does not know my
virtue.--I thought the clergy in Convocation in Ireland would have given me thanks for being
their solicitor; but I hear of no such thing. Pray talk occasionally on that subject, and let
me know what you hear. Do you know the greatness of my spirit, that I value their thanks not
a rush, but at my return shall freely let all people know that it was my Lord Treasurer's action,
wherein the Duke of Ormond had no more share than a cat? And so they may go whistle, and I'll
go sleep.

16. I was this day in the City, and dined at Pontack's(11) with Stratford, and two other merchants.
Pontack told us, although his wine was so good, he sold it cheaper than others; he took but
seven shillings a flask. Are not these pretty rates? The books he sent for from Hamburg are
come, but not yet got out of the custom-house. My library will be at least double when I come
back. I shall go to Windsor again on Saturday, to meet our Society, who are to sup at Mr. Secretary's;
but I believe I shall return on Monday, and then I will answer your letter, that lies here
safe underneath;--I see it; lie still: I will answer you when the ducks have eaten up the dirt.

17. I dined to-day at Lord Treasurer's with Mrs. Masham, and she is extremely like one Mrs.
Malolly, that was once my landlady in Trim. She was used with mighty kindness and respect,
like a favourite. It signifies nothing going to this Lord Treasurer about business, although
it be his own. He was in haste, and desires I will come again, and dine with him to-morrow.
His famous lying porter is fallen sick, and they think he will die: I wish I had all my half-crowns
again. I believe I have told you he is an old Scotch fanatic, and the damn'dest liar in his
office alive.(12) I have a mind to recommend Patrick to succeed him: I have trained him up
pretty well. I reckon for certain you are now in town. The weather now begins to alter to rain.

Windsor, 18. I dined to-day with Lord Treasurer, and he would make me go with him to Windsor,
although I was engaged to the Secretary, to whom I made my excuses: we had in the coach besides,
his son and son-in-law, Lord Harley and Lord Dupplin, who are two of our Society, and seven
of us met by appointment, and supped this night with the Secretary. It was past nine before
we got here, but a fine moonshiny night. I shall go back, I believe, on Monday. 'Tis very late.

19. The Queen did not stir out to-day, she is in a little fit of the gout. I dined at Mr. Masham's;
we had none but our Society members, six in all, and I supped with Lord Treasurer. The Queen
has ordered twenty thousand pounds to go on with the building at Blenheim, which has been starved
till now, since the change of the Ministry.(13) I suppose it is to reward his last action of
getting into the French lines.(14) Lord Treasurer kept me till past twelve.

London, 20. It rained terribly every step of our journey to-day: I returned with the Secretary
after a dinner of cold meat, and went to Mrs. Van's, where I sat the evening. I grow very idle,
because I have a great deal of business. Tell me how you passed your time at Wexford; and are
not you glad at heart you have got home safe to your lodgings at St. Mary's, pray? And so your
friends come to visit you; and Mrs. Walls is much better of her eye; and the Dean is just as
he used to be: and what does Walls say of London? 'tis a reasoning coxcomb. And Goody Stoyte,
and Hannah what d'ye call her; no, her name an't Hannah, Catherine I mean; they were so glad
to see the ladies again! and Mrs. Manley wanted a companion at ombre.

21. I writ to-day to the Archbishop of Dublin, and enclosed a long politic paper by itself.
You know the bishops are all angry (smoke the wax-candle drop at the bottom of this paper)
I have let the world know the First-Fruits were got by Lord Treasurer before the Duke of Ormond
was Governor. I told Lord Treasurer all this, and he is very angry; but I pacified him again
by telling him they were fools, and knew nothing of what passed here; but thought all was well
enough if they complimented the Duke of Ormond. Lord Treasurer gave me t'other day a letter
of thanks he received from the bishops of Ireland, signed by seventeen; and says he will write
them an answer. The Dean of Carlisle sat with me to-day till three; and I went to dine with
Lord Treasurer, who dined abroad, so did the Secretary, and I was left in the suds. 'Twas almost
four, and I got to Sir Matthew Dudley, who had half dined. Thornhill, who killed Sir Cholmley
Dering,(15) was murdered by two men, on Turnham Green, last Monday night: as they stabbed him,
they bid him remember Sir Cholmley Dering. They had quarrelled at Hampton Court, and followed
and stabbed him on horseback. We have only a Grub Street paper of it, but I believe it is true.
I went myself through Turnham Green the same night, which was yesterday.

22. We have had terrible rains these two or three days. I intended to dine at Lord Treasurer's,
but went to see Lady Abercorn, who is come to town, and my lord; and I dined with them, and
visited Lord Treasurer this evening. His porter is mending. I sat with my lord about three
hours, and am come home early to be busy. Passing by White's Chocolate-house,(16) my brother
Masham called me, and told me his wife was brought to bed of a boy, and both very well. (Our
Society, you must know, are all brothers.) Dr. Garth told us that Mr. Henley(17) is dead of
an apoplexy. His brother-in-law, Earl Poulett, is gone down to the Grange, to take care of
his funeral. The Earl of Danby,(18) the Duke of Leeds's eldest grandson, a very hopeful young
man of about twenty, is dead at Utrecht of the smallpox.--I long to know whether you begin
to have any good effect by your waters.--Methinks this letter goes on slowly; 'twill be a fortnight
next Saturday since it was begun, and one side not filled. O fie for shame, Presto! Faith,
I'm so tosticated to and from Windsor, that I know not what to say; but, faith, I'll go to
Windsor again on Saturday, if they ask me, not else. So lose your money again, now you are
come home; do, sirrah.

Take your magnifying-glass, Madam Dingley.

You shan't read this, sirrah Stella; don't read it for your life, for fear of your dearest eyes.

There's enough for this side; these Ministers hinder me. Pretty, dear, little, naughty, saucy MD.

Silly, impudent, loggerhead Presto.

23. Dilly and I dined to-day with Lord Abercorn, and had a fine fat haunch of venison, that
smelt rarely on one side: and after dinner Dilly won half a crown of me at backgammon at his
lodgings, to his great content. It is a scurvy empty town this melancholy season of the year;
but I think our weather begins to mend. The roads are as deep as in winter. The grapes are
sad things; but the peaches are pretty good, and there are some figs. I sometimes venture to
eat one, but always repent it. You say nothing of the box sent half a year ago. I wish you
would pay me for Mrs. Walls's tea. Your mother is in the country, I suppose. Pray send me the
account of MD, Madam Dingley, as it stands since November,(19) that is to say, for this year
(excluding the twenty pounds lent Stella for Wexford), for I cannot look in your letters. I
think I ordered that Hawkshaw's interest should be paid to you. When you think proper, I will
let Parvisol know you have paid that twenty pounds, or part of it; and so go play with the
Dean, and I will answer your letter to-morrow. Good-night, sirrahs, and love Presto, and be
good girls.

24. I dined to-day with Lord Treasurer, who chid me for not dining with him yesterday, for
it seems I did not understand his invitation; and their Club of the Ministry dined together,
and expected me. Lord Radnor(20) and I were walking the Mall this evening; and Mr. Secretary
met us, and took a turn or two, and then stole away, and we both believed it was to pick up
some wench; and to-morrow he will be at the Cabinet with the Queen: so goes the world! Prior
has been out of town these two months, nobody knows where, and is lately returned. People confidently
affirm he has been in France, and I half believe it. It is said he was sent by the Ministry,
and for some overtures towards a peace. The Secretary pretends he knows nothing of it. I believe
your Parliament will be dissolved. I have been talking about the quarrel between your Lords
and Commons with Lord Treasurer, and did, at the request of some people, desire that the Queen's
answer to the Commons' address might express a dislike of some principles, etc.; but was answered
dubiously.--And so now to your letter, fair ladies. I know drinking is bad; I mean writing
is bad in drinking the waters; and was angry to see so much in Stella's hand. But why Dingley
drinks them, I cannot imagine; but truly she'll drink waters as well as Stella: why not? I
hope you now find the benefit of them since you are returned; pray let me know particularly.
I am glad you are forced upon exercise, which, I believe, is as good as the waters for the
heart of them. 'Tis now past the middle of August; so by your reckoning you are in Dublin.
It would vex me to the dogs that letters should miscarry between Dublin and Wexford, after
'scaping the salt seas. I will write no more to that nasty town in haste again, I warrant you.
I have been four Sundays together at Windsor, of which a fortnight together; but I believe
I shall not go to-morrow, for I will not, unless the Secretary asks me. I know all your news
about the Mayor: it makes no noise here at all, but the quarrel of your Parliament does; it
is so very extraordinary, and the language of the Commons so very pretty. The Examiner has
been down this month, and was very silly the five or six last papers; but there is a pamphlet
come out, in answer to a letter to the seven Lords who examined Gregg.(21) The Answer(22) is
by the real author of the Examiner, as I believe; for it is very well written. We had Trapp's
poem on the Duke of Ormond(23) printed here, and the printer sold just eleven of them. 'Tis
a dull piece, not half so good as Stella's; and she is very modest to compare herself with
such a poetaster. Dilly is not tired at all with England, but intends to continue here a good
while: he is mighty easy to be at distance from his two sisters-in-law. He finds some sort
of scrub acquaintance; goes now and then in disguise to a play; smokes his pipe; reads now
and then a little trash, and what else the Lord knows. I see him now and then; for he calls
here, and the town being thin, I am less pestered with company than usual. I have got rid of
many of my solicitors, by doing nothing for them: I have not above eight or nine left, and
I'll be as kind to them. Did I tell you of a knight who desired me to speak to Lord Treasurer
to give him two thousand pounds, or five hundred pounds a year, until he could get something
better? I honestly delivered my message to the Treasurer, adding, the knight was a puppy, whom
I would not give a groat to save from the gallows. Cole Reading's father-in-law has been two
or three times at me, to recommend his lights to the Ministry, assuring me that a word of mine
would, etc. Did not that dog use to speak ill of me, and profess to hate me? He knows not where
I lodge, for I told him I lived in the country; and I have ordered Patrick to deny me constantly
to him.--Did the Bishop of London(25) die in Wexford? poor gentleman! Did he drink the waters?
were you at his burial? was it a great funeral? so far from his friends! But he was very old:
we shall all follow. And yet it was a pity, if God pleased. He was a good man; not very learned:
I believe he died but poor. Did he leave any charity legacies? who held up his pall? was there
a great sight of clergy? do they design a tomb for him?--Are you sure it was the Bishop of
London? because there is an elderly gentleman here that we give the same title to: or did you
fancy all this in your water, as others do strange things in their wine? They say these waters
trouble the head, and make people imagine what never came to pass. Do you make no more of killing
a Bishop? are these your Whiggish tricks?--Yes, yes, I see you are in a fret. O, faith, says
you, saucy Presto, I'll break your head; what, can't one report what one hears, without being
made a jest and a laughing-stock? Are these your English tricks, with a murrain? And Sacheverell
will be the next Bishop? He would be glad of an addition of two hundred pounds a year to what
he has, and that is more than they will give him, for aught I see. He hates the new Ministry
mortally, and they hate him, and pretend to despise him too. They will not allow him to have
been the occasion of the late change; at least some of them will not: but my Lord Keeper owned
it to me the other day. No, Mr. Addison does not go to Ireland this year: he pretended he would;
but he is gone to Bath with Pastoral Philips, for his eyes.--So now I have run over your letter;
and I think this shall go to-morrow, which will be just a fortnight from the last, and bring
things to the old form again, after your rambles to Wexford, and mine to Windsor. Are there
not many literal faults in my letters? I never read them over, and I fancy there are. What
do you do then? do you guess my meaning, or are you acquainted with my manner of mistaking?
I lost my handkerchief in the Mall to-night with Lord Radnor; but I made him walk with me to
find it, and find it I did not. Tisdall(26) (that lodges with me) and I have had no conversation,
nor do we pull off our hats in the streets. There is a cousin of his (I suppose,) a young parson,
that lodges in the house too; a handsome, genteel fellow. Dick Tighe(27) and his wife lodged
over against us; and he has been seen, out of our upper windows, beating her two or three times:
they are both gone to Ireland, but not together; and he solemnly vows never to live with her.
Neighbours do not stick to say that she has a tongue: in short, I am told she is the most urging,
provoking devil that ever was born; and he a hot, whiffling(28) puppy, very apt to resent.
I'll keep this bottom till to-morrow: I'm sleepy.

25. I was with the Secretary this morning, who was in a mighty hurry, and went to Windsor in
a chariot with Lord Keeper; so I was not invited, and am forced to stay at home, but not at
all against my will; for I could have gone, and would not. I dined in the City with one of
my printers, for whom I got the Gazette, and am come home early; and have nothing to say to
you more, but finish this letter, and not send it by the bellman. Days grow short, and the
weather grows bad, and the town is splenetic, and things are so oddly contrived that I cannot
be absent; otherwise I would go for a few days to Oxford, as I promised.--They say it is certain
that Prior has been in France,(29) nobody doubts it: I had not time to ask the Secretary, he
was in such haste. Well, I will take my leave of dearest MD for a while; for I must begin my
next letter to-night: consider that, young women; and pray be merry, and good girls, and love
Presto. There is now but one business the Ministry want me for, and when that is done, I will
take my leave of them. I never got a penny from them, nor expect it. In my opinion, some things
stand very ticklish; I dare say nothing at this distance. Farewell, dear sirrahs, dearest lives:
there is peace and quiet with MD, and nowhere else. They have not leisure here to think of
small things, which may ruin them; and I have been forward enough. Farewell again, dearest
rogues; I am never happy but when I write or think of MD. I have enough of Courts and Ministries,
and wish I were at Laracor; and if I could with honour come away this moment, I would. Bernage(30)
came to see me to-day; he is just landed from Portugal, and come to raise recruits; he looks
very well, and seems pleased with his station and manner of life. He never saw London nor England
before; he is ravished with Kent, which was his first prospect when he landed. Farewell again,
etc. etc.

LETTER 29.

LONDON, Aug. 25, 1711.

I have got a pretty small gilt sheet of paper, to write to MD. I have this moment sent my 28th
by Patrick, who tells me he has put it in the post-office; 'tis directed to your lodgings:
if it wants more particular direction, you must set me right. It is now a solar month and two
days since the date of your last, N.18; and I reckon you are now quiet at home, and thinking
to begin your 19th, which will be full of your quarrel between the two Houses, all which I
know already. Where shall I dine to-morrow? can you tell? Mrs. Vanhomrigh boards now, and cannot
invite one; and there I used to dine when I was at a loss: and all my friends are gone out
of town, and your town is now at the fullest, with your Parliament and Convocation. But let
me alone, sirrahs; for Presto is going to be very busy; not Presto, but the other I.

26. People have so left the town that I am at a loss for a dinner. It is a long time since
I have been at London upon a Sunday; and the Ministers are all at Windsor. It cost me eighteenpence
in coach-hire before I could find a place to dine in. I went to Frankland's,(1) and he was
abroad, and the drab his wife looked out at window, and bowed to me without inviting me up:
so I dined with Mr. Coote,(2) my Lord Mountrath's brother; my lord is with you in Ireland.
This morning at five my Lord Jersey(3) died of the gout in his stomach, or apoplexy, or both:
he was abroad yesterday, and his death was sudden. He was Chamberlain to King William, and
a great favourite, turned out by the Queen as a Tory, and stood now fair to be Privy Seal;
and by his death will, I suppose, make that matter easier, which has been a very stubborn business
at Court, as I have been informed. I never remember so many people of quality to have died
in so short a time.

27. I went to-day into the City, to thank Stratford for my books, and dine with him, and settle
my affairs of my money in the Bank, and receive a bill for Mrs. Wesley for some things I am
to buy for her; and the d---- a one of all these could I do. The merchants were all out of
town, and I was forced to go to a little hedge place for my dinner. May my enemies live here
in summer! and yet I am so unlucky that I cannot possibly be out of the way at this juncture.
People leave the town so late in summer, and return so late in winter, that they have almost
inverted the seasons. It is autumn this good while in St. James's Park; the limes have been
losing their leaves, and those remaining on the trees are all parched: I hate this season,
where everything grows worse and worse. The only good thing of it is the fruit, and that I
dare not eat. Had you any fruit at Wexford? A few cherries, and durst not eat them. I do not
hear we have yet got a new Privy Seal. The Whigs whisper that our new Ministry differ among
themselves, and they begin to talk out Mr. Secretary: they have some reasons for their whispers,
although I thought it was a greater secret. I do not much like the posture of things; I always
apprehended that any falling out would ruin them, and so I have told them several times. The
Whigs are mighty full of hopes at present; and whatever is the matter, all kind of stocks fall.
I have not yet talked with the Secretary about Prior's journey. I should be apt to think it
may foretell a peace, and that is all we have to preserve us. The Secretary is not come from
Windsor, but I expect him to-morrow. Burn all politics!

28. We begin to have fine weather, and I walked to-day to Chelsea, and dined with the Dean
of Carlisle, who is laid up with the gout. It is now fixed that he is to be Dean of Christ
Church in Oxford. I was advising him to use his interest to prevent any misunderstanding between
our Ministers; but he is too wise to meddle, though he fears the thing and the consequences
as much as I. He will get into his own warm, quiet deanery, and leave them to themselves; and
he is in the right.--When I came home to-night, I found a letter from Mr. Lewis, who is now
at Windsor; and in it, forsooth, another which looked like Presto's hand; and what should it
be but a 19th from MD? O, faith, I 'scaped narrowly, for I sent my 28th but on Saturday; and
what should I have done if I had two letters to answer at once? I did not expect another from
Wexford, that is certain. Well, I must be contented; but you are dear saucy girls, for all
that, to write so soon again, faith; an't you?

29. I dined to-day with Lord Abercorn, and took my leave of them: they set out to-morrow for
Chester, and, I believe, will now fix in Ireland. They have made a pretty good journey of it:
his eldest son(4) is married to a lady with ten thousand pounds; and his second son(5) has,
t'other day, got a prize in the lottery of four thousand pounds, beside two small ones of two
hundred pounds each: nay, the family was so fortunate, that my lord bestowing one ticket, which
is a hundred pounds, to one of his servants, who had been his page, the young fellow got a
prize, which has made it another hundred. I went in the evening to Lord Treasurer, who desires
I will dine with him to-morrow, when he will show me the answer he designs to return to the
letter of thanks from your bishops in Ireland. The Archbishop of Dublin desired me to get myself
mentioned in the answer which my lord would send; but I sent him word I would not open my lips
to my lord upon it. He says it would convince the bishops of what I have affirmed, that the
First-Fruits were granted before the Duke of Ormond was declared Governor; and I writ to him
that I would not give a farthing to convince them. My Lord Treasurer began a health to my Lord
Privy Seal: Prior punned, and said it was so privy, he knew not who it was; but I fancy they
have fixed it all, and we shall know to-morrow. But what care you who is Privy Seal, saucy
sluttikins?

30. When I went out this morning, I was surprised with the news that the Bishop of Bristol
is made Lord Privy Seal. You know his name is Robinson,(6) and that he was many years Envoy
in Sweden. All the friends of the present Ministry are extremely glad, and the clergy above
the rest. The Whigs will fret to death to see a civil employment given to a clergyman. It was
a very handsome thing in my Lord Treasurer, and will bind the Church to him for ever. I dined
with him to-day, but he had not written his letter;(see above, 29th Aug.) but told me he would
not offer to send it without showing it to me: he thought that would not be just, since I was
so deeply concerned in the affair. We had much company: Lord Rivers, Mar,(7) and Kinnoull,(8)
Mr. Secretary, George Granville, and Masham: the last has invited me to the christening of
his son to-morrow se'ennight; and on Saturday I go to Windsor with Mr. Secretary.

31. Dilly and I walked to-day to Kensington to Lady Mountjoy, who invited us to dinner. He
returned soon, to go to a play, it being the last that will be acted for some time: he dresses
himself like a beau, and no doubt makes a fine figure. I went to visit some people at Kensington:
Ophy Butler's wife(9) there lies very ill of an ague, which is a very common disease here,
and little known in Ireland. I am apt to think we shall soon have a peace, by the little words
I hear thrown out by the Ministry. I have just thought of a project to bite the town. I have
told you that it is now known that Mr. Prior has been lately in France. I will make a printer
of my own sit by me one day, and I will dictate to him a formal relation of Prior's journey,(10)
with several particulars, all pure invention; and I doubt not but it will take.

Sept. 1. Morning. I go to-day to Windsor with Mr. Secretary; and Lord Treasurer has promised
to bring me back. The weather has been fine for some time, and I believe we shall have a great
deal of dust.--At night. Windsor. The Secretary and I dined to-day at Parson's Green, at my
Lord Peterborow's house, who has left it and his gardens to the Secretary during his absence.
It is the finest garden I have ever seen about this town; and abundance of hot walls for grapes,
where they are in great plenty, and ripening fast. I durst not eat any fruit but one fig; but
I brought a basket full to my friend Lewis here at Windsor. Does Stella never eat any? what,
no apricots at Donnybrook! nothing but claret and ombre! I envy people maunching and maunching
peaches and grapes, and I not daring to eat a bit. My head is pretty well, only a sudden turn
any time makes me giddy for a moment, and sometimes it feels very stuffed; but if it grows
no worse, I can bear it very well. I take all opportunities of walking; and we have a delicious
park here just joining to the Castle, and an avenue in the great park very wide and two miles
long, set with a double row of elms on each side. Were you ever at Windsor? I was once, a great
while ago; but had quite forgotten it.

2. The Queen has the gout, and did not come to chapel, nor stir out from her chamber, but received
the sacrament there, as she always does the first Sunday in the month. Yet we had a great Court;
and, among others, I saw your Ingoldsby,(11) who, seeing me talk very familiarly with the Keeper,
Treasurer, etc., came up and saluted me, and began a very impertinent discourse about the siege
of Bouchain. I told him I could not answer his questions, but I would bring him one that should;
so I went and fetched Sutton (who brought over the express about a month ago), and delivered
him to the General, and bid him answer his questions; and so I left them together. Sutton after
some time comes back in a rage, finds me with Lord Rivers and Masham, and there complains of
the trick I had played him, and swore he had been plagued to death with Ingoldsby's talk. But
he told me Ingoldsby asked him what I meant by bringing him; so, I suppose, he smoked me a
little. So we laughed, etc. My Lord Willoughby,(12) who is one of the chaplains, and Prebendary
of Windsor, read prayers last night to the family; and the Bishop of Bristol, who is Dean of
Windsor, officiated last night at the Cathedral. This they do to be popular; and it pleases
mightily. I dined with Mr. Masham, because he lets me have a select company: for the Court
here have got by the end a good thing I said to the Secretary some weeks ago. He showed me
his bill of fare, to tempt me to dine with him. "Poh," said I, "I value not your bill of fare;
give me your bill of company." Lord Treasurer was mightily pleased, and told it everybody as
a notable thing. I reckon upon returning to-morrow: they say the Bishop will then have the
Privy Seal delivered him at a great Council.

3. Windsor still. The Council was held so late to-day that I do not go back to town till to-morrow.
The Bishop was sworn Privy Councillor, and had the Privy Seal given him: and now the patents
are passed for those who were this long time to be made lords or earls. Lord Raby,(13) who
is Earl of Strafford, is on Thursday to marry a namesake of Stella's; the daughter of Sir H.
Johnson in the City; he has three-score thousand pounds with her, ready money; besides the
rest at the father's death. I have got my friend Stratford to be one of the directors of the
South Sea Company, who were named to-day. My Lord Treasurer did it for me a month ago; and
one of those whom I got to be printer of the Gazette I am recommending to be printer to the
same company. He treated Mr. Lewis and me to-day at dinner. I supped last night and this with
Lord Treasurer, Keeper, etc., and took occasion to mention the printer. I said it was the same
printer whom my Lord Treasurer has appointed to print for the South Sea Company. He denied,
and I insisted on it; and I got the laugh on my side.

London, 4. I came as far as Brentford in Lord Rivers's chariot, who had business with Lord
Treasurer; then I went into Lord Treasurer's. We stopped at Kensington, where Lord Treasurer
went to see Mrs. Masham, who is now what they call in the straw. We got to town by three, and
I lighted at Lord Treasurer's, who commanded me not to stir: but I was not well; and when he
went up, I begged the young lord to excuse me, and so went into the City by water, where I
could be easier, and dined with the printer, and dictated to him some part of Prior's Journey
to France. I walked from the City, for I take all occasions of exercise. Our journey was horridly
dusty.

5. When I went out to-day, I found it had rained mightily in the night, and the streets were
as dirty as winter: it is very refreshing after ten days dry.--I went into the City, and dined
with Stratford, thanked him for his books, gave him joy of his being director, of which he
had the first notice by a letter from me. I ate sturgeon, and it lies on my stomach. I almost
finished Prior's Journey at the printer's; and came home pretty late, with Patrick at my heels.

7. Morning. But what shall we do about this letter of MD's, N.19? Not a word answered yet,
and so much paper spent! I cannot do anything in it, sweethearts, till night.--At night. O
Lord, O Lord! the greatest disgrace that ever was has happened to Presto. What do you think?
but, when I was going out this forenoon a letter came from MD, N.20, dated Dublin. O dear,
O dear! O sad, O sad!--Now I have two letters together to answer: here they are, lying together.
But I will only answer the first; for I came in late. I dined with my friend Lewis at his lodgings,
and walked at six to Kensington to Mrs. Masham's son's christening. It was very private; nobody
there but my Lord Treasurer, his son and son-in-law, that is to say, Lord Harley and Lord Dupplin,
and Lord Rivers and I. The Dean of Rochester(14) christened the child, but soon went away.
Lord Treasurer and Lord Rivers were godfathers; and Mrs. Hill,(15) Mrs. Masham's sister, godmother.
The child roared like a bull, and I gave Mrs. Masham joy of it; and she charged me to take
care of my nephew, because, Mr. Masham being a brother of our Society, his son, you know, is
consequently a nephew. Mrs. Masham sat up dressed in bed, but not, as they do in Ireland, with
all smooth about her, as if she was cut off in the middle; for you might see the counterpane
(what d'ye call it?) rise about her hips and body. There is another name of the counterpane;
and you will laugh now, sirrahs. George Granville came in at supper, and we stayed till eleven;
and Lord Treasurer set me down at my lodging in Suffolk Street. Did I ever tell you that Lord
Treasurer hears ill with the left ear, just as I do? He always turns the right, and his servants
whisper him at that only. I dare not tell him that I am so too, for fear he should think I
counterfeited, to make my court.

6. You must read this before the other; for I mistook, and forgot to write yesterday's journal,
it was so insignificant. I dined with Dr. Cockburn, and sat the evening with Lord Treasurer
till ten o'clock. On Thursdays he has always a large select company, and expects me. So good-night
for last night, etc.

8. Morning. I go to Windsor with Lord Treasurer to-day, and will leave this behind me, to be
sent to the post. And now let us hear what says the first letter, N.19. You are still at Wexford,
as you say, Madam Dingley. I think no letter from me ever yet miscarried. And so Inish-Corthy,(16)
and the river Slainy; fine words those in a lady's mouth. Your hand like Dingley's, you scambling,(17)
scattering sluttikin! YES, MIGHTY LIKE INDEED, IS NOT IT?(18) Pisshh, do not talk of writing
or reading till your eyes are well, and long well; only I would have Dingley read sometimes
to you, that you may not lose the desire of it. God be thanked, that the ugly numbing is gone!
Pray use exercise when you go to town. What game is that ombra which Dr. Elwood(19) and you
play at? is it the Spanish game ombre? Your card-purse? you a card-purse! you a fiddlestick.
You have luck indeed; and luck in a bag. What a devil! is that eight-shilling tea-kettle copper,
or tin japanned? It is like your Irish politeness, raffling for tea-kettles. What a splutter
you keep, to convince me that Walls has no taste! My head continues pretty well. Why do you
write, dear sirrah Stella, when you find your eyes so weak that you cannot see? what comfort
is there in reading what you write, when one knows that? So Dingley cannot write, because of
the clutter of new company come to Wexford! I suppose the noise of their hundred horses disturbs
you; or do you lie in one gallery, as in an hospital? What! you are afraid of losing in Dublin
the acquaintance you have got in Wexford, and chiefly the Bishop of Raphoe,(20) an old, doting,
perverse coxcomb? Twenty at a time at breakfast. That is like five pounds at a time, when it
was never but once. I doubt, Madam Dingley, you are apt to lie in your travels, though not
so bad as Stella; she tells thumpers, as I shall prove in my next, if I find this receives
encouragement.--So Dr. Elwood says there are a world of pretty things in my works. A pox on
his praises! an enemy here would say more. The Duke of Buckingham would say as much, though
he and I are terribly fallen out; and the great men are perpetually inflaming me against him:
they bring me all he says of me, and, I believe, make it worse out of roguery.--No, 'tis not
your pen is bewitched, Madam Stella, but your old SCRAWLING, SPLAY-FOOT POT-HOOKS, S, S,(21)
ay that's it: there the s, s, s, there, there, that's exact. Farewell, etc.

Our fine weather is gone; and I doubt we shall have a rainy journey to-day. Faith, 'tis shaving-day,
and I have much to do. When Stella says her pen was bewitched, it was only because there was
a hair in it. You know, the fellow they call God-help-it had the same thoughts of his wife,
and for the same reason. I think this is very well observed, and I unfolded the letter to tell
you it.

Cut off those two notes above; and see the nine pounds indorsed, and receive the other; and
send me word how my accounts stand, that they may be adjusted by Nov. 1.(22) Pray be very particular;
but the twenty pounds I lend you is not to be included: so make no blunder. I won't wrong you,
nor you shan't wrong me; that is the short. O Lord, how stout Presto is of late! But he loves
MD more than his life a thousand times, for all his stoutness; tell them that; and that I'll
swear it, as hope saved, ten millions of times, etc. etc.

I open my letter once more, to tell Stella that if she does not use exercise after her waters,
it will lose all the effects of them: I should not live if I did not take all opportunities
of walking. Pray, pray, do this, to oblige poor Presto.

LETTER 30.

WINDSOR, Sept. 8, 1711.

I made the coachman stop, and put in my twenty-ninth at the post-office at two o'clock to-day,
as I was going to Lord Treasurer, with whom I dined, and came here by a quarter-past eight;
but the moon shone, and so we were not in much danger of overturning; which, however, he values
not a straw, and only laughs when I chide at him for it. There was nobody but he and I, and
we supped together, with Mr. Masham, and Dr. Arbuthnot, the Queen's favourite physician, a
Scotchman. I could not keep myself awake after supper, but did all I was able to disguise it,
and thought I came off clear; but, at parting, he told me I had got my nap already. It is now
one o'clock; but he loves sitting up late.

9. The Queen is still in the gout, but recovering: she saw company in her bed-chamber after
church; but the crowd was so great, I could not see her. I dined with my brother Sir William
Wyndham,(1) and some others of our Society, to avoid the great tables on Sunday at Windsor,
which I hate. The usual company supped to-night at Lord Treasurer's, which was Lord Keeper,
Mr. Secretary, George Granville, Masham, Arbuthnot, and I. But showers have hindered me from
walking to-day, and that I do not love.--Noble fruit, and I dare not eat a bit. I ate one fig
to-day, and sometimes a few mulberries, because it is said they are wholesome, and you know
a good name does much. I shall return to town to-morrow, though I thought to have stayed a
week, to be at leisure for something I am doing. But I have put it off till next; for I shall
come here again on Saturday, when our Society are to meet at supper at Mr. Secretary's. My
life is very regular here: on Sunday morning I constantly visit Lord Keeper, and sup at Lord
Treasurer's with the same set of company. I was not sleepy to-night; I resolved I would not;
yet it is past midnight at this present writing.

London, 10. Lord Treasurer and Masham and I left Windsor at three this afternoon: we dropped
Masham at Kensington with his lady, and got home by six. It was seven before we sat down to
dinner, and I stayed till past eleven. Patrick came home with the Secretary: I am more plagued
with Patrick and my portmantua than with myself. I forgot to tell you that when I went to Windsor
on Saturday I overtook Lady Giffard and Mrs. Fenton(2) in a chariot, going, I suppose, to Sheen.
I was then in a chariot too, of Lord Treasurer's brother, who had business with the Treasurer;
and my lord came after, and overtook me at Turnham Green, four miles from London; and then
the brother went back, and I went in the coach with Lord Treasurer: so it happened that those
people saw me, and not with Lord Treasurer. Mrs. F. was to see me about a week ago; and desired
I would get her son into the Charter-house.

11. This morning the printer sent me an account of Prior's Journey;(3) it makes a twopenny
pamphlet. I suppose you will see it, for I dare engage it will run; 'tis a formal, grave lie,
from the beginning to the end. I writ all but about the last page; that I dictated, and the
printer writ. Mr. Secretary sent to me to dine where he did; it was at Prior's: when I came
in, Prior showed me the pamphlet, seemed to be angry, and said, "Here is our English liberty!"
I read some of it, and said I liked it mightily, and envied the rogue the thought; for, had
it come into my head, I should have certainly done it myself. We stayed at Prior's till past
ten; and then the Secretary received a packet with the news of Bouchain being taken, for which
the guns will go off to-morrow. Prior owned his having been in France, for it was past denying:
it seems he was discovered by a rascal at Dover, who had positive orders to let him pass. I
believe we shall have a peace.

12. It is terrible rainy weather, and has cost me three shillings in coaches and chairs to-day,
yet I was dirty into the bargain. I was three hours this morning with the Secretary about some
business of moment, and then went into the City to dine. The printer tells me he sold yesterday
a thousand of Prior's Journey, and had printed five hundred more. It will do rarely, I believe,
and is a pure bite. And what is MD doing all this while? got again to their cards, their Walls,
their deans, their Stoytes, and their claret? Pray present my service to Mr. Stoyte and Catherine.
Tell Goody Stoyte she owes me a world of dinners, and I will shortly come over and demand them.--Did
I tell you of the Archbishop of Dublin's last letter? He had been saying, in several of his
former, that he would shortly write to me something about myself; and it looked as if he intended
something for me: at last out it comes, and consists of two parts. First, he advises me to
strike in for some preferment now I have friends; and secondly, he advises me, since I have
parts, and learning, and a happy pen, to think of some new subject in divinity not handled
by others, which I should manage better than anybody. A rare spark this, with a pox! but I
shall answer him as rarely. Methinks he should have invited me over, and given me some hopes
or promises. But hang him! and so good-night, etc.

13. It rained most furiously all this morning till about twelve, and sometimes thundered; I
trembled for my shillings, but it cleared up, and I made a shift to get a walk in the Park,
and then went with the Secretary to dine with Lord Treasurer. Upon Thursdays there is always
a select company: we had the Duke of Shrewsbury, Lord Rivers, the two Secretaries, Mr. Granville,
and Mr. Prior. Half of them went to Council at six; but Rivers, Granville, Prior, and I, stayed
till eight. Prior was often affecting to be angry at the account of his journey to Paris; and
indeed the two last pages, which the printer got somebody to add,(4) are so romantic, they
spoil all the rest. Dilly Ashe pretended to me that he was only going to Oxford and Cambridge
for a fortnight, and then would come back. I could not see him as I appointed t'other day;
but some of his friends tell me he took leave of them as going to Ireland; and so they say
at his lodging. I believe the rogue was ashamed to tell me so, because I advised him to stay
the winter, and he said he would. I find he had got into a good set of scrub acquaintance,
and I thought passed his time very merrily; but I suppose he languished after Balderig, and
the claret of Dublin; and, after all, I think he is in the right; for he can eat, drink, and
converse better there than here. Bernage was with me this morning: he calls now and then; he
is in terrible fear of a peace. He said he never had his health so well as in Portugal. He
is a favourite of his Colonel.

14. I was mortified enough to-day, not knowing where in the world to dine, the town is so empty.
I met H. Coote,(5) and thought he would invite me, but he did not: Sir John Stanley did not
come into my head; so I took up with Mrs. Van, and dined with her and her damned landlady,
who, I believe, by her eyebrows, is a bawd. This evening I met Addison and Pastoral Philips
in the Park, and supped with them at Addison's lodgings: we were very good company, and I yet
know no man half so agreeable to me as he is. I sat with them till twelve, so you may think
it is late, young women; however, I would have some little conversation with MD before your
Presto goes to bed, because it makes me sleep, and dream, and so forth. Faith, this letter
goes on slowly enough, sirrahs; but I cannot write much at a time till you are quite settled
after your journey, you know, and have gone all your visits, and lost your money at ombre.
You never play at chess now, Stella. That puts me in mind of Dick Tighe; I fancy I told you
he used to beat his wife here; and she deserved it; and he resolves to part with her; and they
went to Ireland in different coaches. O Lord, I said all this before, I am sure. Go to bed,
sirrahs.

Windsor, 15. I made the Secretary stop at Brentford, because we set out at two this afternoon,
and fasting would not agree with me. I only designed to eat a bit of bread-and-butter; but
he would light, and we ate roast beef like dragons. And he made me treat him and two more gentlemen;
faith, it cost me a guinea. I do not like such jesting, yet I was mightily pleased with it
too. To-night our Society met at the Secretary's: there were nine of us; and we have chosen
a new member, the Earl of Jersey,(6) whose father died lately. 'Tis past one, and I have stolen
away.

16. I design to stay here this week by myself, about some business that lies on my hands, and
will take up a great deal of time. Dr. Adams,(7) one of the canons, invited me to-day to dinner.
The tables are so full here on Sunday that it is hard to dine with a few, and Dr. Adams knows
I love to do so; which is very obliging. The Queen saw company in her bed-chamber; she looks
very well, but she sat down. I supped with Lord Treasurer as usual, and stayed till past one
as usual, and with our usual company, except Lord Keeper, who did not come this time to Windsor.
I hate these suppers mortally, but I seldom eat anything.

17. Lord Treasurer and Mr. Secretary stay here till tomorrow; some business keeps them, and
I am sorry for it, for they hinder me a day. Mr. Lewis and I were going to dine soberly with
a little Court friend at one. But Lord Harley and Lord Dupplin kept me by force, and said we
should dine at Lord Treasurer's, who intended to go at four to London. I stayed like a fool,
and went with the two young lords to Lord Treasurer, who very fairly turned us all three out
of doors. They both were invited to the Duke of Somerset, but he was gone to a horse-race,
and would not come till five; so we were forced to go to a tavern, and sent for wine from Lord
Treasurer's, who at last, we were told, did not go to town till the morrow, and at Lord Treasurer's
we supped again; and I desired him to let me add four shillings to the bill I gave him. We
sat up till two, yet I must write to little MD.

18. They are all gone early this morning, and I am alone to seek my fortune; but Dr. Arbuthnot
engages me for my dinners; and he yesterday gave me my choice of place, person, and victuals
for to-day. So I chose to dine with Mrs. Hill, who is one of the dressers, and Mrs. Masham's
sister, no company but us three, and to have a shoulder of mutton, a small one; which was exactly,
only there was too much victuals besides; and the Doctor's wife(8) was of the company. And
to-morrow Mrs. Hill and I are to dine with the Doctor. I have seen a fellow often about Court
whom I thought I knew. I asked who he was, and they told me it was the gentleman porter; then
I called him to mind; he was Killy's acquaintance (I won't say yours); I think his name is
Lovet,(9) or Lovel, or something like it. I believe he does not know me, and in my present
posture I shall not be fond of renewing old acquaintance; I believe I used to see him with
the Bradleys; and, by the way, I have not seen Mrs. Bradley since I came to England. I left
your letter in London, like a fool; and cannot answer it till I go back, which will not be
until Monday next; so this will be above a fortnight from my last; but I will fetch it up in
my next; so go and walk to the Dean's for your health this fine weather.

19. The Queen designs to have cards and dancing here next week, which makes us think she will
stay here longer than we believed. Mrs. Masham is not well after her lying-in: I doubt she
got some cold; she is lame in one of her legs with a rheumatic pain. Dr. Arbuthnot and Mrs.
Hill go tomorrow to Kensington to see her, and return the same night. Mrs. Hill and I dined
with the Doctor to-day. I rode out this morning with the Doctor to see Cranburn, a house of
Lord Ranelagh's,(10) and the Duchess of Marlborough's lodge, and the Park; the finest places
they are, for nature and plantations, that ever I saw; and the finest riding upon artificial
roads, made on purpose for the Queen. Arbuthnot made me draw up a sham subscription for a book,
called A History of the Maids of Honour since Harry the Eighth, showing they make the best
wives, with a list of all the maids of honour since, etc.; to pay a crown in hand, and the
other crown upon delivery of the book; and all in common forms of those things. We got a gentleman
to write it fair, because my hand is known; and we sent it to the maids of honour, when they
came to supper. If they bite at it, it will be a very good Court jest; and the Queen will certainly
have it: we did not tell Mrs. Hill.

20. To-day I was invited to the Green Cloth by Colonel Godfrey, who married the Duke of Marlborough's
sister,(11) mother to the Duke of Berwick by King James: I must tell you those things that
happened before you were born. But I made my excuses, and young Harcourt (Lord Keeper's son)
and I dined with my next neighbour, Dr Adams.(12) Mrs. Masham is better, and will be here in
three or four days. She had need; for the Duchess of Somerset is thought to gain ground daily.--We
have not sent you over all your bills; and I think we have altered your money-bill. The Duke
of Ormond is censured here, by those in power, for very wrong management in the affair of the
mayoralty.(13) He is governed by fools, and has usually much more sense than his advisers,
but never proceeds by it. I must know how your health continues after Wexford. Walk and use
exercise, sirrahs both; and get somebody to play at shuttlecock with you, Madam Stella, and
walk to the Dean's and Donnybrook.

21. Colonel Godfrey sent to me again to-day; so I dined at the Green Cloth, and we had but
eleven at dinner, which is a small number there, the Court being always thin of company till
Saturday night.--This new ink and pen make a strange figure; I MUST WRITE LARGER, YES I MUST,
OR STELLA WILL NOT BE ABLE TO READ THIS.(14) S. S. S., there is your S's for you, Stella. The
maids of honour are bit, and have all contributed their crowns, and are teasing others to subscribe
for the book. I will tell Lord Keeper and Lord Treasurer to-morrow; and I believe the Queen
will have it. After a little walk this evening, I squandered away the rest of it in sitting
at Lewis's lodging, while he and Dr. Arbuthnot played at picquet. I have that foolish pleasure,
which I believe nobody has beside me, except old Lady Berkeley.(15) But I fretted when I came
away: I will loiter so no more, for I have a plaguy deal of business upon my hands, and very
little time to do it. The pamphleteers begin to be very busy against the Ministry: I have begged
Mr. Secretary to make examples of one or two of them, and he assures me he will. They are very
bold and abusive.

22. This being the day the Ministry come to Windsor, I ate a bit or two at Mr. Lewis's lodgings,
because I must sup with Lord Treasurer; and at half an hour after one, I led Mr. Lewis a walk
up the avenue, which is two miles long. We walked in all about five miles; but I was so tired
with his slow walking, that I left him here, and walked two miles towards London, hoping to
meet Lord Treasurer, and return with him; but it grew darkish, and I was forced to walk back,
so I walked nine miles in all; and Lord Treasurer did not come till after eight; which is very
wrong, for there was no moon, and I often tell him how ill he does to expose himself so; but
he only makes a jest of it. I supped with him, and stayed till now, when it is half an hour
after two. He is as merry and careless and disengaged as a young heir at one-and-twenty. 'Tis
late indeed.

23. The Secretary did not come last night, but at three this afternoon. I have not seen him
yet, but I verily think they are contriving a peace as fast as they can, without which it will
be impossible to subsist. The Queen was at church to-day, but was carried in a chair. I and
Mr. Lewis dined privately with Mr. Lowman,(16) Clerk of the Kitchen. I was to see Lord Keeper
this morning, and told him the jest of the maids of honour; and Lord Treasurer had it last
night. That rogue Arbuthnot puts it all upon me. The Court was very full to-day. I expected
Lord Treasurer would have invited me to supper; but he only bowed to me; and we had no discourse
in the drawing-room. It is now seven at night, and I am at home; and I hope Lord Treasurer
will not send for me to supper: if he does not, I will reproach him; and he will pretend to
chide me for not coming.--So farewell till I go to bed, for I am going to be busy.--It is now
past ten, and I went down to ask the servants about Mr. Secretary: they tell me the Queen is
yet at Council, and that she went to supper, and came out to the Council afterwards. It is
certain they are managing a peace. I will go to bed, and there is an end.--It is now eleven,
and a messenger is come from Lord Treasurer to sup with them; but I have excused myself, and
am glad I am in bed; for else I should sit up till two, and drink till I was hot. Now I'll
go sleep.

London, 24. I came to town by six with Lord Treasurer, and have stayed till ten. That of the
Queen's going out to sup, and coming in again, is a lie, as the Secretary told me this morning;
but I find the Ministry are very busy with Mr. Prior, and I believe he will go again to France.
I am told so much, that we shall certainly have a peace very soon. I had charming weather all
last week at Windsor; but we have had a little rain to-day, and yesterday was windy. Prior's
Journey sells still; they have sold two thousand, although the town is empty. I found a letter
from Mrs. Fenton here, desiring me, in Lady Giffard's name, to come and pass a week at Sheen,
while she is at Moor Park. I will answer it with a vengeance: and now you talk of answering,
there is MD's N.20 is yet to be answered: I had put it up so safe, I could hardly find it;
but here it is, faith, and I am afraid I cannot send this till Thursday; for I must see the
Secretary to-morrow morning, and be in some other place in the evening.

25. Stella writes like an emperor, and gives such an account of her journey, never saw the
like. Let me see; stand away, let us compute; you stayed four days at Inish-Corthy, two nights
at Mrs. Proby's mother's, and yet was but six days in journey; for your words are, "We left
Wexford this day se'ennight, and came here last night." I have heard them say that "travellers
may lie by authority." Make up this, if you can. How far is it from Wexford to Dublin? how
many miles did you travel in a day?(17) Let me see--thirty pounds in two months is nine score
pounds a year; a matter of nothing in Stella's purse! I dreamed Billy Swift was alive, and
that I told him you writ me word he was dead, and that you had been at his funeral; and I admired
at your impudence, and was in mighty haste to run and let you know what lying rogues you were.
Poor lad! he is dead of his mother's former folly and fondness; and yet now I believe, as you
say, that her grief will soon wear off.--O yes, Madam Dingley, mightily tired of the company,
no doubt of it, at Wexford! And your description of it is excellent; clean sheets, but bare
walls; I suppose then you lay upon the walls.--Mrs. Walls has got her tea; but who pays me
the money? Come, I shall never get it; so I make a present of it, to stop some gaps, etc. Where's
the thanks of the house? So, that's well; why, it cost four-and-thirty shillings English--you
must adjust that with Mrs. Walls; I think that is so many pence more with you.--No, Leigh and
Sterne, I suppose, were not at the water-side: I fear Sterne's business will not be done; I
have not seen him this good while. I hate him, for the management of that box; and I was the
greatest fool in nature for trusting to such a young jackanapes; I will speak to him once more
about it, when I see him. Mr. Addison and I met once more since, and I supped with him; I believe
I told you so somewhere in this letter. The Archbishop chose an admirable messenger in Walls,
to send to me; yet I think him fitter for a messenger than anything.--The D---- she has! I
did not observe her looks. Will she rot out of modesty with Lady Giffard? I pity poor Jenny(18)--but
her husband is a dunce, and with respect to him she loses little by her deafness. I believe,
Madam Stella, in your accounts you mistook one liquor for another, and it was an hundred and
forty quarts of wine, and thirty-two of water.--This is all written in the morning before I
go to the Secretary, as I am now doing. I have answered your letter a little shorter than ordinary;
but I have a mind it should go to-day, and I will give you my journal at night in my next;
for I'm so afraid of another letter before this goes: I will never have two together again
unanswered.--What care I for Dr. Tisdall and Dr. Raymond, or how many children they have! I
wish they had a hundred apiece.--Lord Treasurer promises me to answer the bishops' letter to-morrow,
and show it me; and I believe it will confirm all I said, and mortify those that threw the
merit on the Duke of Ormond; for I have made him jealous of it; and t'other day, talking of
the matter, he said, "I am your witness, you got it for them before the Duke was Lord Lieutenant."
My humble service to Mrs. Walls, Mrs. Stoyte, and Catherine. Farewell, etc.

What do you do when you see any literal mistakes in my letters? how do you set them right?
for I never read them over to correct them. Farewell, again.

Pray send this note to Mrs. Brent, to get the money when Parvisol comes to town, or she can
send to him.

LETTER 31.

LONDON, Sept. 25, 1711.

I dined in the City to-day, and at my return I put my 30th into the post-office; and when I
got home I found for me one of the noblest letters I ever read: it was from ----, three sides
and a half in folio, on a large sheet of paper; the two first pages made up of satire upon
London, and crowds and hurry, stolen from some of his own schoolboy's exercises: the side and
a half remaining is spent in desiring me to recommend Mrs. South, your Commissioner's widow,(1)
to my Lord Treasurer for a pension. He is the prettiest, discreetest fellow that ever my eyes
beheld, or that ever dipped pen into ink. I know not what to say to him. A pox on him, I have
too many such customers on this side already. I think I will send him word that I never saw
my Lord Treasurer in my life: I am sure I industriously avoided the name of any great person
when I saw him, for fear of his reporting it in Ireland. And this recommendation must be a
secret too, for fear the Duke of Bolton(2) should know it, and think it was too mean. I never
read so d----d a letter in my life: a little would make me send it over to you.--I must send
you a pattern, the first place I cast my eyes on, I will not pick and choose. IN THIS PLACE
(meaning the Exchange in London), WHICH IS THE COMPENDIUM OF OLD TROYNOVANT, AS THAT IS OF
THE WHOLE BUSY WORLD, I GOT SUCH A SURFEIT, THAT I GREW SICK OF MANKIND, AND RESOLVED FOR EVER
AFTER TO BURY MYSELF IN THE SHADY RETREAT OF -----. You must know that London has been called
by some Troynovant, or New Troy. Will you have any more? Yes, one little bit for Stella, because
she'll be fond of it. This wondrous theatre (meaning London) was no more to me than a desert,
and I should less complain of solitude in a Connaught shipwreck, or even the great bog of Allen.
A little scrap for Mrs. Marget,(3) and then I have done. THEIR ROYAL FANUM, WHEREIN THE IDOL
PECUNIA IS DAILY WORSHIPPED, SEEMED TO ME TO BE JUST LIKE A HIVE OF BEES WORKING AND LABOURING
UNDER HUGE WEIGHTS OF CARES. Fanum is a temple, but he means the Exchange; and Pecunia is money:
so now Mrs. Marget will understand her part. One more paragraph, and I-- Well, come, don't
be in such a rage, you shall have no more. Pray, Stella, be satisfied; 'tis very pretty: and
that I must be acquainted with such a dog as this!--Our peace goes on fast. Prior was with
the Secretary two hours this morning: I was there a little after he went away, and was told
it. I believe he will soon be despatched again to France; and I will put somebody to write
an account of his second journey: I hope you have seen the other. This latter has taken up
my time with storming at it.

26. Bernage has been with me these two days; yesterday I sent for him to let him know that
Dr. Arbuthnot is putting in strongly to have his brother made a captain over Bernage's(4) head.
Arbuthnot's brother is but an ensign, but the Doctor has great power with the Queen: yet he
told me he would not do anything hard to a gentleman who is my friend; and I have engaged the
Secretary and his Colonel(5) for him. To-day he told me very melancholy, that the other had
written from Windsor (where he went to solicit) that he has got the company; and Bernage is
full of the spleen. I made the Secretary write yesterday a letter to the Colonel in Bernage's
behalf. I hope it will do yet; and I have written to Dr. Arbuthnot to Windsor, not to insist
on doing such a hardship. I dined in the City at Pontack's, with Stratford; it cost me seven
shillings: he would have treated, but I did not let him. I have removed my money from the Bank
to another fund. I desire Parvisol may speak to Hawkshaw to pay in my money when he can, for
I will put it in the funds; and, in the meantime, borrow so much of Mr. Secretary, who offers
to lend it me. Go to the Dean's, sirrahs.

27. Bernage was with me again to-day, and is in great fear, and so was I; but this afternoon,
at Lord Treasurer's, where I dined, my brother, George Granville, Secretary at War, after keeping
me a while in suspense, told me that Dr. Arbuthnot had waived the business, because he would
not wrong a friend of mine; that his brother is to be a lieutenant, and Bernage is made a captain.
I called at his lodging, and the soldier's coffee-house, to put him out of pain, but cannot
find him; so I have left word, and shall see him to-morrow morning, I suppose. Bernage is now
easy; he has ten shillings a day, beside lawful cheating. However, he gives a private sum to
his Colonel, but it is very cheap: his Colonel loves him well, but is surprised to see him
have so many friends. So he is now quite off my hands. I left the company early to-night, at
Lord Treasurer's; but the Secretary followed me, to desire I would go with him to W--. Mr.
Lewis's man came in before I could finish that word beginning with a W, which ought to be Windsor,
and brought me a very handsome rallying letter from Dr. Arbuthnot, to tell me he had, in compliance
to me, given up his brother's pretensions in favour of Bernage, this very morning; that the
Queen had spoken to Mr. Granville to make the company easy in the other's having the captainship.
Whether they have done it to oblige me or no, I must own it so. He says he this very morning
begged Her Majesty to give Mr. Bernage the company. I am mighty well pleased to have succeeded
so well; but you will think me tedious, although you like the man, as I think.

Windsor, 28. I came here a day sooner than ordinary, at Mr. Secretary's desire, and supped
with him and Prior, and two private Ministers from France, and a French priest.(6) I know not
the two Ministers' names; but they are come about the peace. The names the Secretary called
them, I suppose, were feigned; they were good rational men. We have already settled all things
with France, and very much to the honour and advantage of England; and the Queen is in mighty
good humour. All this news is a mighty secret; the people in general know that a peace is forwarding.
The Earl of Strafford(7) is to go soon to Holland, and let them know what we have been doing:
and then there will be the devil and all to pay; but we'll make them swallow it with a pox.
The French Ministers stayed with us till one, and the Secretary and I sat up talking till two;
so you will own 'tis late, sirrahs, and time for your little saucy Presto to go to bed and
sleep adazy; and God bless poor little MD: I hope they are now fast asleep, and dreaming of Presto.

29. Lord Treasurer came to-night, as usual, at half an hour after eight, as dark as pitch.
I am weary of chiding him; so I commended him for observing his friend's advice, and coming
so early, etc. I was two hours with Lady Oglethorpe(8) to-night, and then supped with Lord
Treasurer, after dining at the Green Cloth: I stayed till two; this is the effect of Lord Treasurer's
being here; I must sup with him; and he keeps cursed hours. Lord Keeper and the Secretary were
absent; they cannot sit up with him. This long sitting up makes the periods in my letters so
short. I design to stay here all the next week, to be at leisure by myself, to finish something
of weight I have upon my hands, and which must soon be done. I shall then think of returning
to Ireland, if these people will let me; and I know nothing else they have for me to do. I
gave Dr. Arbuthnot my thanks for his kindness to Bernage, whose commission is now signed. Methinks
I long to know something of Stella's health, how it continues after Wexford waters.

30. The Queen was not at chapel to-day, and all for the better, for we had a dunce to preach:
she has a little of the gout. I dined with my brother Masham, and a moderate company, and would
not go to Lord Treasurer's till after supper at eleven o'clock, and pretended I had mistaken
the hour; so I ate nothing: and a little after twelve the company broke up, the Keeper and
Secretary refusing to stay; so I saved this night's debauch. Prior went away yesterday with
his Frenchmen, and a thousand reports are raised in this town. Some said they knew one to be
the Abbe de Polignac: others swore it was the Abbe du Bois. The Whigs are in a rage about the
peace; but we'll wherret(9) them, I warrant, boys. Go, go, go to the Dean's and don't mind
politics, young women, they are not good after the waters; they are stark naught: they strike
up into the head. Go, get two black aces, and fish for a manilio.

Oct. 1. Sir John Walter,(10) an honest drunken fellow, is now in waiting, and invited me to
the Green Cloth to-day, that he might not be behindhand with Colonel Godfrey, who is a Whig.
I was engaged to the Mayor's feast with Mr. Masham; but waiting to take leave of Lord Treasurer,
I came too late, and so returned sneaking to the Green Cloth, and did not see my Lord Treasurer
neither; but was resolved not to lose two dinners for him. I took leave to-day of my friend
and solicitor Lord Rivers, who is commanded by the Queen to set out for Hanover on Thursday.
The Secretary does not go to town till to-morrow; he and I, and two friends more, drank a sober
bottle of wine here at home, and parted at twelve; he goes by seven to-morrow morning, so I
shall not see him. I have power over his cellar in his absence, and make little use of it.
Lord Dartmouth and my friend Lewis stay here this week; but I can never work out a dinner from
Dartmouth. Masham has promised to provide for me: I squired his lady out of her chaise to-day,
and must visit her in a day or two. So you have had a long fit of the finest weather in the
world; but I am every day in pain that it will go off. I have done no business to-day; I am
very idle.

2. My friend Lewis and I, to avoid over much eating and great tables, dined with honest Jemmy
Eckershall,(11) Clerk of the Kitchen, now in waiting, and I bespoke my dinner: but the cur
had your acquaintance Lovet, the gentleman porter, to be our company. Lovet, towards the end
of dinner, after twenty wrigglings, said he had the honour to see me formerly at Moor Park,
and thought he remembered my face. I said I thought I remembered him, and was glad to see him,
etc., and I escaped for that much, for he was very pert. It has rained all this day, and I
doubt our good weather is gone. I have been very idle this afternoon, playing at twelvepenny
picquet with Lewis: I won seven shillings, which is the only money I won this year: I have
not played above four times, and I think always at Windsor. Cards are very dear: there is a
duty on them of sixpence a pack, which spoils small gamesters.

3. Mr. Masham sent this morning to desire I would ride out with him, the weather growing again
very fine. I was very busy, and sent my excuses; but desired he would provide me a dinner.
I dined with him, his lady, and her sister, Mrs. Hill, who invites us to-morrow to dine with
her, and we are to ride out in the morning. I sat with Lady Oglethorpe till eight this evening,
then was going home to write; looked about for the woman that keeps the key of the house: she
told me Patrick had it. I cooled my heels in the cloisters till nine, then went in to the music-meeting,
where I had been often desired to go; but was weary in half an hour of their fine stuff, and
stole out so privately that everybody saw me; and cooled my heels in the cloisters again till
after ten: then came in Patrick. I went up, shut the chamber door, and gave him two or three
swinging cuffs on the ear, and I have strained the thumb of my left hand with pulling him,
which I did not feel until he was gone. He was plaguily afraid and humbled.

4. It was the finest day in the world, and we got out before eleven, a noble caravan of us.
The Duchess of Shrewsbury in her own chaise with one horse, and Miss Touchet(12) with her,
Mrs. Masham and Mrs. Scarborow, one of the dressers, in one of the Queen's chaises; Miss Forester
and Miss Scarborow,(13) two maids of honour, and Mrs. Hill on horseback. The Duke of Shrewsbury,
Mr. Masham, George Fielding,(14) Arbuthnot, and I, on horseback too. Mrs. Hill's horse was
hired for Miss Scarborow, but she took it in civility; her own horse was galled and could not
be rid, but kicked and winced: the hired horse was not worth eighteenpence. I borrowed coat,
boots, and horse, and in short we had all the difficulties, and more than we used to have in
making a party from Trim to Longfield's.(15) My coat was light camlet, faced with red velvet,
and silver buttons. We rode in the great park and the forest about a dozen miles, and the Duchess
and I had much conversation: we got home by two, and Mr. Masham, his lady, Arbuthnot and I,
dined with Mrs. Hill. Arbuthnot made us all melancholy, by some symptoms of bloody u---e: he
expects a cruel fit of the stone in twelve hours; he says he is never mistaken, and he appears
like a man that was to be racked to-morrow. I cannot but hope it will not be so bad; he is
a perfectly honest man, and one I have much obligation to. It rained a little this afternoon,
and grew fair again. Lady Oglethorpe sent to speak to me, and it was to let me know that Lady
Rochester(16) desires she and I may be better acquainted. 'Tis a little too late; for I am
not now in love with Lady Rochester: they shame me out of her, because she is old. Arbuthnot
says he hopes my strained thumb is not the gout; for he has often found people so mistaken.
I do not remember the particular thing that gave it me, only I had it just after beating Patrick,
and now it is better; so I believe he is mistaken.

5. The Duchess of Shrewsbury sent to invite me to dinner; but I was abroad last night when
her servant came, and this morning I sent my excuses, because I was engaged, which I was sorry
for. Mrs. Forester taxed me yesterday about the History of the Maids of Honour;(17) but I told
her fairly it was no jest of mine; for I found they did not relish it altogether well; and
I have enough already of a quarrel with that brute Sir John Walter, who has been railing at
me in all companies ever since I dined with him; that I abused the Queen's meat and drink,
and said nothing at the table was good, and all a d----d lie; for after dinner, commending
the wine, I said I thought it was something small. You would wonder how all my friends laugh
at this quarrel. It will be such a jest for the Keeper, Treasurer, and Secretary.--I dined
with honest Colonel Godfrey, took a good walk of an hour on the terrace, and then came up to
study; but it grows bloody cold, and I have no waistcoat here.

6. I never dined with the chaplains till to-day; but my friend Gastrell and the Dean of Rochester(18)
had often invited me, and I happened to be disengaged: it is the worst provided table at Court.
We ate on pewter: every chaplain, when he is made a dean, gives a piece of plate, and so they
have got a little, some of it very old. One who was made Dean of Peterborough (a small deanery)
said he would give no plate; he was only Dean of Pewterborough. I advised them by all means
to go to the music-meeting to-night, to show they were not cast down, etc., and they thought
my advice was right, and went. I doubt Mr. Hill and his admiral made wrong steps; however,
we lay it all to a storm, etc. I sat with the Secretary at supper; then we both went to Lord
Treasurer's supper, and sat till twelve. The Secretary is much mortified about Hill, because
this expedition was of his contriving, and he counted much upon it; but Lord Treasurer was
just as merry as usual, and old laughing at Sir John Walter and me falling out. I said nothing
grieved me but that they would take example, and perhaps presume upon it, and get out of my
government; but that I thought I was not obliged to govern bears, though I governed men. They
promise to be as obedient as ever, and so we laughed; and so I go to bed; for it is colder
still, and you have a fire now, and are at cards at home.

7. Lord Harley and I dined privately to-day with Mrs. Masham and Mrs. Hill, and my brother
Masham. I saw Lord Halifax at Court, and we joined and talked; and the Duchess of Shrewsbury
came up and reproached me for not dining with her. I said that was not so soon done, for I
expected more advances from ladies, especially duchesses: she promised to comply with any demands
I pleased; and I agreed to dine with her to-morrow, if I did not go to London too soon, as
I believe I shall before dinner. Lady Oglethorpe brought me and the Duchess of Hamilton(20)
together to-day in the drawing-room, and I have given her some encouragement, but not much.
Everybody has been teasing Walter. He told Lord Treasurer that he took his company from him
that were to dine with him: my lord said, "I will send you Dr. Swift:" Lord Keeper bid him
take care what he did; "for," said he, "Dr. Swift is not only all our favourite, but our governor."
The old company supped with Lord Treasurer, and got away by twelve.

London, 8. I believe I shall go no more to Windsor, for we expect the Queen will come in ten
days to Hampton Court. It was frost last night, and cruel cold to-day. I could not dine with
the Duchess, for I left Windsor half an hour after one with Lord Treasurer, and we called at
Kensington, where Mrs. Masham was got to see her children for two days. I dined, or rather
supped, with Lord Treasurer, and stayed till after ten. Tisdall(21) and his family are gone
from hence, upon some wrangle with the family. Yesterday I had two letters brought me to Mr.
Masham's; one from Ford, and t'other from our little MD, N.21. I would not tell you till to-day,
because I would not. I won't answer it till the next, because I have slipped two days by being
at Windsor, which I must recover here. Well, sirrahs, I must go to sleep. The roads were as
dry as at midsummer to-day. This letter shall go to-morrow.

9. Morning. It rains hard this morning. I suppose our fair weather is now at an end. I think
I'll put on my waistcoat to-day: shall I? Well, I will then, to please MD. I think of dining
at home to-day upon a chop and a pot. The town continues yet very thin. Lord Strafford is gone
to Holland, to tell them what we have done here toward a peace. We shall soon hear what the
Dutch say, and how they take it. My humble service to Mrs. Walls, Mrs. Stoyte, and Catherine.--Morrow,
dearest sirrahs, and farewell; and God Almighty bless MD, poor little dear MD, for so I mean,
and Presto too. I'll write to you again to-night, that is, I'll begin my next letter. Farewell,
etc.

This little bit belongs to MD; we must always write on the margin:(22) you are saucy rogues.

LETTER 32.

LONDON, Oct. 9, 1711.

I was forced to lie down at twelve to-day, and mend my night's sleep: I slept till after two,
and then sent for a bit of mutton and pot of ale from the next cook's shop, and had no stomach.
I went out at four, and called to see Biddy Floyd, which I had not done these three months:
she is something marked, but has recovered her complexion quite, and looks very well. Then
I sat the evening with Mrs. Vanhomrigh, and drank coffee, and ate an egg. I likewise took a
new lodging to-day, not liking a ground-floor, nor the ill smell, and other circumstances.
I lodge, or shall lodge, by Leicester Fields, and pay ten shillings a week; that won't hold
out long, faith. I shall lie here but one night more. It rained terribly till one o'clock to-day.
I lie, for I shall lie here two nights, till Thursday, and then remove. Did I tell you that
my friend Mrs. Barton has a brother(1) drowned, that went on the expedition with Jack Hill?
He was a lieutenant-colonel, and a coxcomb; and she keeps her chamber in form, and the servants
say she receives no messages.--Answer MD's letter, Presto, d'ye hear? No, says Presto, I won't
yet, I'm busy; you're a saucy rogue. Who talks?

10. It cost me two shillings in coach-hire to dine in the City with a printer. I have sent,
and caused to be sent, three pamphlets out in a fortnight. I will ply the rogues warm; and
whenever anything of theirs makes a noise, it shall have an answer. I have instructed an under
spur-leather to write so, that it is taken for mine. A rogue that writes a newspaper, called
The Protestant Postboy, has reflected on me in one of his papers; but the Secretary has taken
him up, and he shall have a squeeze extraordinary. I sat the evening at home, and am very busy,
and can hardly find time to write, unless it were to MD. I am in furious haste.

11. I dined to-day with Lord Treasurer. Thursdays are now his days when his choice company
comes, but we are too much multiplied. George Granville sent his excuses upon being ill; I
hear he apprehends the apoplexy, which would grieve me much. Lord Treasurer calls Prior nothing
but Monsieur Baudrier, which was the feigned name of the Frenchman that writ his Journey to
Paris.(3) They pretend to suspect me, so I talk freely of it, and put them out of their play.
Lord Treasurer calls me now Dr. Martin, because martin(4) is a sort of a swallow, and so is
a swift. When he and I came last Monday from Windsor, we were reading all the signs on the
road.(5) He is a pure trifler; tell the Bishop of Clogher so. I made him make two lines in
verse for the Bell and Dragon, and they were rare bad ones. I suppose Dilly is with you by
this time: what could his reason be of leaving London, and not owning it? 'Twas plaguy silly.
I believe his natural inconstancy made him weary. I think he is the king of inconstancy. I
stayed with Lord Treasurer till ten; we had five lords and three commoners. Go to ombre, sirrahs.

12. Mrs. Vanhomrigh has changed her lodging as well as I. She found she had got with a bawd,
and removed. I dined with her to-day; for though she boards, her landlady does not dine with
her. I am grown a mighty lover of herrings; but they are much smaller here than with you. In
the afternoon I visited an old major-general, and ate six oysters; then sat an hour with Mrs.
Colledge,(6) the joiner's daughter that was hanged; it was the joiner was hanged, and not his
daughter; with Thompson's wife, a magistrate. There was the famous Mrs. Floyd of Chester, who,
I think, is the handsomest woman (except MD) that ever I saw. She told me that twenty people
had sent her the verses upon Biddy,(7) as meant to her: and, indeed, in point of handsomeness,
she deserves them much better. I will not go to Windsor to-morrow, and so I told the Secretary
to-day. I hate the thoughts of Saturday and Sunday suppers with Lord Treasurer. Jack Hill is
come home from his unfortunate expedition, and is, I think, now at Windsor: I have not yet
seen him. He is privately blamed by his own friends for want of conduct. He called a council
of war, and therein it was determined to come back. But they say a general should not do that,
because the officers will always give their opinion for returning, since the blame will not
lie upon them, but the general. I pity him heartily. Bernage received his commission to-day.

13. I dined to-day with Colonel Crowe,(8) late Governor of Barbadoes; he is a great acquaintance
of your friend Sterne, to whom I trusted the box. Lord Treasurer has refused Sterne's business,
and I doubt he is a rake; Jemmy Leigh stays for him, and nobody knows where to find him. I
am so busy now I have hardly time to spare to write to our little MD, but in a fortnight I
hope it will be over. I am going now to be busy, etc.

14. I was going to dine with Dr. Cockburn, but Sir Andrew Fountaine met me, and carried me
to Mrs. Van's, where I drank the last bottle of Raymond's wine, admirable good, better than
any I get among the Ministry. I must pick up time to answer this letter of MD's; I'll do it
in a day or two for certain.--I am glad I am not at Windsor, for it is very cold, and I won't
have a fire till November. I am contriving how to stop up my grate with bricks. Patrick was
drunk last night; but did not come to me, else I should have given him t'other cuff. I sat
this evening with Mrs. Barton; it is the first day of her seeing company; but I made her merry
enough, and we were three hours disputing upon Whig and Tory. She grieved for her brother only
for form, and he was a sad dog. Is Stella well enough to go to church, pray? no numbings left?
no darkness in your eyes? do you walk and exercise? Your exercise is ombre.--People are coming
up to town: the Queen will be at Hampton Court in a week. Lady Betty Germaine, I hear, is come;
and Lord Pembroke is coming: his wife(9) is as big with child as she can tumble.

15. I sat at home till four this afternoon to-day writing, and ate a roll and butter; then
visited Will Congreve an hour or two, and supped with Lord Treasurer, who came from Windsor
to-day, and brought Prior with him. The Queen has thanked Prior for his good service in France,
and promised to make him a Commissioner of the Customs. Several of that Commission are to be
out; among the rest, my friend Sir Matthew Dudley. I can do nothing for him, he is so hated
by the Ministry. Lord Treasurer kept me till twelve, so I need not tell you it is now late.

16. I dined to-day with Mr. Secretary at Dr. Coatesworth's,(10) where he now lodges till his
house be got ready in Golden Square. One Boyer,(11) a French dog, has abused me in a pamphlet,
and I have got him up in a messenger's hands: the Secretary promises me to swinge him. Lord
Treasurer told me last night that he had the honour to be abused with me in a pamphlet. I must
make that rogue an example, for warning to others. We don't yet know the particulars. I am
got home by seven, and am going to be busy, and you are going to play and supper; you live
ten times happier than I; but I should live ten times happier than you if I were with MD. I
saw Jemmy Leigh to-day in the street, who tells me that Sterne has not lain above once these
three weeks in his lodgings, and he doubts he takes ill courses; he stays only till he can
find Sterne to go along with him, and he cannot hear of him. I begged him to inquire about
the box when he comes to Chester, which he promises.

17. The Secretary and I dined to-day with Brigadier Britton,(13) a great friend of his. The
lady of the house is very gallant, about thirty-five; she is said to have a great deal of wit;
but I see nothing among any of them that equals MD by a bar's length, as hope saved. My Lord
Treasurer is much out of order; he has a sore throat, and the gravel, and a pain in his breast
where the wound was: pray God preserve him. The Queen comes to Hampton Court on Tuesday next;
people are coming fast to town, and I must answer MD's letter, which I can hardly find time
to do, though I am at home the greatest part of the day. Lady Betty Germaine and I were disputing
Whig and Tory to death this morning. She is grown very fat, and looks mighty well. Biddy Floyd
was there, and she is, I think, very much spoiled with the smallpox.

18. Lord Treasurer is still out of order, and that breaks our method of dining there to-day.
He is often subject to a sore throat, and some time or other it will kill him, unless he takes
more care than he is apt to do. It was said about the town that poor Lord Peterborow was dead
at Frankfort; but he is something better, and the Queen is sending him to Italy, where I hope
the warm climate will recover him: he has abundance of excellent qualities, and we love one
another mightily. I was this afternoon in the City, ate a bit of meat, and settled some things
with a printer. I will answer your letter on Saturday, if possible, and then send away this;
so to fetch up the odd days I lost at Windsor, and keep constant to my fortnight. Ombre time
is now coming on, and we shall have nothing but Manley, and Walls, and Stoytes, and the Dean.
Have you got no new acquaintance? Poor girls; nobody knows MD's good qualities.--'Tis very
cold; but I will not have a fire till November, that's pozz.--Well, but coming home to-night,
I found on my table a letter from MD; faith, I was angry, that is, with myself; and I was afraid
too to see MD's hand so soon, for fear of something, I don't know what: at last I opened it,
and it was over well, and a bill for the two hundred guineas. However, 'tis a sad thing that
this letter is not gone, nor your twenty-first answered yet.

19. I was invited to-day to dine with Mrs. Van, with some company who did not come; but I ate
nothing but herrings; you must know I hardly ever eat of above one thing, and that the plainest
ordinary meat at table; I love it best, and believe it wholesomest. You love rarities; yes
you do; I wish you had all that I ever see where I go. I was coming home early, and met the
Secretary in his chair, who persuaded me to go with him to Britton's; for he said he had been
all day at business, and had eaten nothing. So I went, and the time passed so, that we stayed
till two, so you may believe 'tis late enough.

20. This day has gone all wrong, by sitting up so late last night. Lord Treasurer is not yet
well, and can't go to Windsor. I dined with Sir Matthew Dudley, and took occasion to hint to
him that he would lose his employment, for which I am very sorry. Lord Pembroke and his family
are all come to town. I was kept so long at a friend's this evening that I cannot send this
to-night. When I knocked at my lodgings, a fellow asked me where lodged Dr. Swift? I told him
I was the person: he gave me a letter he brought from the Secretary's office, and I gave him
a shilling: when I came up, I saw Dingley's hand: faith, I was afraid, I do not know what.
At last it was a formal letter, from Dingley about her exchequer business. Well, I'll do it
on Monday, and settle it with Tooke. And now, boys, for your letter, I mean the first, N.21.
Let's see; come out, little letter. I never had the letter from the Bishop that Raymond mentions;
but I have written to Ned Southwell, to desire the Duke of Ormond to speak to his reverence,
that he may leave off his impertinence. What a pox can they think I am doing for the Archbishop
here? You have a pretty notion of me in Ireland, to make me an agent for the Archbishop of
Dublin.--Why! do you think I value your people's ingratitude about my part in serving them?
I remit them their first-fruits of ingratitude, as freely as I got the other remitted to them.
The Lord Treasurer defers writing his letter to them, or else they would be plaguily confounded
by this time. For he designs to give the merit of it wholly to the Queen and me, and to let
them know it was done before the Duke of Ormond was Lord Lieutenant. You visit, you dine abroad,
you see friends; you pilgarlick;(14) you walk from Finglas, you a cat's foot. O Lord--Lady
Gore(15) hung her child by the WAIST; what is that waist?(16) I don't understand that word;
he must hang on till you explain or spell it.--I don't believe he was pretty, that's a liiii.--Pish!
burn your First-Fruits; again at it. Stella has made twenty false spellings in her writing;
I'll send them to you all back again on the other side of this letter, to mend them; I won't
miss one. Why, I think there were seventeen bishops' names to the letter Lord Oxford received.--I
will send you some pamphlets by Leigh; put me in mind of it on Monday, for I shall go then
to the printer; yes, and the Miscellany. I am mightily obliged to Walls, but I don't deserve
it by any usage of him here, having seen him but twice, and once en passant. Mrs. Manley forsworn
ombre! What! and no blazing star appear? no monsters born? no whale thrown up? have you not
found out some evasion for her? She had no such regard to oaths in her younger days. I got
the books for nothing, Madam Dingley; but the wine I got not; it was but a promise.--Yes, my
head is pretty well in the main, only now and then a little threatening or so.--You talk of
my reconciling some great folks. I tell you what. The Secretary told me last night that he
had found the reason why the Queen was cold to him for some months past; that a friend had
told it him yesterday; and it was, that they suspected he was at the bottom with the Duke of
Marlborough. Then he said he had reflected upon all I had spoken to him long ago, but he thought
it had only been my suspicion, and my zeal and kindness for him. I said I had reason to take
that very ill, to imagine I knew so little of the world as to talk at a venture to a great
Minister; that I had gone between him and Lord Treasurer often, and told each of them what
I had said to the other, and that I had informed him so before. He said all that you may imagine
to excuse himself, and approve my conduct. I told him I knew all along that this proceeding
of mine was the surest way to send me back to my willows in Ireland, but that I regarded it
not, provided I could do the kingdom service in keeping them well together. I minded him how
often I had told Lord Treasurer, Lord Keeper, and him together, that all things depended on
their union, and that my comfort was to see them love one another; and I had told them all
singly that I had not said this by chance, etc. He was in a rage to be thus suspected; swears
he will be upon a better foot, or none at all; and I do not see how they can well want him
in this juncture. I hope to find a way of settling this matter. I act an honest part, that
will bring me neither honour nor praise. MD must think the better of me for it: nobody else
shall ever know of it. Here's politics enough for once; but Madam DD gave me occasion for it.
I think I told you I have got into lodgings that don't smell ill--O Lord! the spectacles: well,
I'll do that on Monday too; although it goes against me to be employed for folks that neither
you nor I care a groat for. Is the eight pounds from Hawkshaw included in the thirty-nine pounds
five shillings and twopence? How do I know by this how my account stands? Can't you write five
or six lines to cast it up? Mine is forty-four pounds per annum, and eight pounds from Hawkshaw
makes fifty-two pounds. Pray set it right, and let me know; you had best.--And so now I have
answered N.21, and 'tis late, and I will answer N.22 in my next: this cannot go to-night, but
shall on Tuesday: and so go to your play, and lose your money, with your two eggs a penny;
silly jade; you witty? very pretty.

21. Mrs. Van would have me dine with her again to-day, and so I did, though Lady Mountjoy has
sent two or three times to have me see and dine with her, and she is a little body I love very
well. My head has ached a little in the evenings these three or four days, but it is not of
the giddy sort, so I do not much value it. I was to see Lord Harley to-day, but Lord Treasurer
took physic; and I could not see him. He has voided much gravel, and is better, but not well:
he talks of going on Tuesday to see the Queen at Hampton Court; I wish he may be able. I never
saw so fine a summer day as this was: how is it with you, pray? and can't you remember, naughty
packs? I han't seen Lord Pembroke yet. He will be sorry to miss Dilly: I wonder you say nothing
of Dilly's being got to Ireland; if he be not there soon, I shall have some certain odd thoughts:
guess them if you can.

22. I dined in the City to-day with Dr. Freind, at one of my printers: I inquired for Leigh,
but could not find him: I have forgot what sort of apron you want. I must rout among your letters,
a needle in a bottle of hay. I gave Sterne directions, but where to find him Lord knows. I
have bespoken the spectacles; got a set of Examiners, and five pamphlets, which I have either
written or contributed to, except the best, which is the vindication of the Duke of Marlborough,
and is entirely of the author of the Atalantis.(17) I have settled Dingley's affair with Tooke,
who has undertaken it, and understands it. I have bespoken a Miscellany: what would you have
me do more? It cost me a shilling coming home; it rains terribly, and did so in the morning.
Lord Treasurer has had an ill day, in much pain. He writes and does business in his chamber
now he is ill: the man is bewitched: he desires to see me, and I'll maul him, but he will not
value it a rush. I am half weary of them all. I often burst out into these thoughts, and will
certainly steal away as soon as I decently can. I have many friends, and many enemies; and
the last are more constant in their nature. I have no shuddering at all to think of retiring
to my old circumstances, if you can be easy; but I will always live in Ireland as I did the
last time; I will not hunt for dinners there, nor converse with more than a very few.

23. Morning. This goes to-day, and shall be sealed by and by. Lord Treasurer takes physic again
to-day: I believe I shall dine with Lord Dupplin. Mr. Tooke brought me a letter directed for
me at Morphew's the bookseller. I suppose, by the postage, it came from Ireland. It is a woman's
hand, and seems false spelt on purpose: it is in such sort of verse as Harris's petition;(18)
rallies me for writing merry things, and not upon divinity; and is like the subject of the
Archbishop's last letter, as I told you. Can you guess whom it came from? It is not ill written;
pray find it out. There is a Latin verse at the end of it all rightly spelt; yet the English,
as I think, affectedly wrong in many places. My plaguing time is coming. A young fellow brought
me a letter from Judge Coote,(19) with recommendation to be lieutenant of a man-of-war. He
is the son of one Echlin,(20) who was minister of Belfast before Tisdall, and I have got some
other new customers; but I shall trouble my friends as little as possible. Saucy Stella used
to jeer me for meddling with other folks' affairs; but now I am punished for it.--Patrick has
brought the candle, and I have no more room. Farewell, etc. etc.

Here is a full and true account of Stella's new spelling:--(21)

Plaguely, Plaguily. Dineing, Dining. Straingers, Strangers. Chais, Chase. Waist, Wast. Houer,
Hour. Immagin, Imagine. A bout, About. Intellegence, Intelligence. Merrit, Merit. Aboundance,
Abundance. Secreet, Secret. Phamphlets, Pamphlets. Bussiness, Business.

Tell me truly, sirrah, how many of these are mistakes of the pen, and how many are you to answer
for as real ill spelling? There are but fourteen; I said twenty by guess. You must not be angry,
for I will have you spell right, let the world go how it will. Though, after all, there is
but a mistake of one letter in any of these words. I allow you henceforth but six false spellings
in every letter you send me.

LETTER 33.

LONDON, Oct. 23, 1711.

I dined with Lord Dupplin as I told you I would, and put my thirty-second into the post-office
my own self; and I believe there has not been one moment since we parted wherein a letter was
not upon the road going or coming to or from PMD. If the Queen knew it, she would give us a
pension; for it is we bring good luck to their post-boys and their packets; else they would
break their necks and sink. But, an old saying and a true one:

     Be it snow, or storm, or hail,
     PMD's letters never fail;
     Cross winds may sometimes make them tarry,
     But PMD's letters can't miscarry.

Terrible rain to-day, but it cleared up at night enough to save my twelvepence coming home.
Lord Treasurer is much better this evening. I hate to have him ill, he is so confoundedly careless.
I won't answer your letter yet, so be satisfied.

24. I called at Lord Treasurer's to-day at noon: he was eating some broth in his bed-chamber,
undressed, with a thousand papers about him. He has a little fever upon him, and his eye terribly
bloodshot; yet he dressed himself and went out to the Treasury. He told me he had a letter
from a lady with a complaint against me; it was from Mrs. Cutts, a sister of Lord Cutts, who
writ to him that I had abused her brother:(1) you remember the "Salamander," it is printed
in the Miscellany. I told my lord that I would never regard complaints, and that I expected,
whenever he received any against me, he would immediately put them into the fire, and forget
them, else I should have no quiet. I had a little turn in my head this morning; which, though
it did not last above a moment, yet being of the true sort, has made me as weak as a dog all
this day. 'Tis the first I have had this half-year. I shall take my pills if I hear of it again.
I dined at Lady Mountjoy's with Harry Coote,(2) and went to see Lord Pembroke upon his coming
to town.--The Whig party are furious against a peace, and every day some ballad comes out reflecting
on the Ministry on that account. The Secretary St. John has seized on a dozen booksellers and
publishers into his messengers' hands.(3) Some of the foreign Ministers have published the
preliminaries agreed on here between France and England; and people rail at them as insufficient
to treat a peace upon; but the secret is, that the French have agreed to articles much more
important, which our Ministers have not communicated, and the people, who think they know all,
are discontented that there is no more. This was an inconvenience I foretold to the Secretary,
but we could contrive no way to fence against it. So there's politics for you.

25. The Queen is at Hampton Court: she went on Tuesday in that terrible rain. I dined with
Lewis at his lodgings, to despatch some business we had. I sent this morning and evening to
Lord Treasurer, and he is much worse by going out; I am in pain about evening. He has sent
for Dr. Radcliffe; pray God preserve him. The Chancellor of the Exchequer(4) showed me to-day
a ballad(5) in manuscript against Lord Treasurer and his South Sea project; it is very sharply
written: if it be not printed, I will send it you. If it be, it shall go in your packet of
pamphlets.--I found out your letter about directions for the apron, and have ordered to be
bought a cheap green silk work apron; I have it by heart. I sat this evening with Mrs. Barton,
who is my near neighbour. It was a delicious day, and I got my walk, and was thinking whether
MD was walking too just at that time that Presto was. This paper does not cost me a farthing,
I have it from the Secretary's office. I long till to-morrow to know how my Lord Treasurer
sleeps this night, and to hear he mends: we are all undone without him; so pray for him, sirrahs,
and don't stay too late at the Dean's.

26. I dined with Mrs. Van; for the weather is so bad, and I am so busy, that I can't dine with
great folks: and besides I dare eat but little, to keep my head in order, which is better.
Lord Treasurer is very ill, but I hope in no danger. We have no quiet with the Whigs, they
are so violent against a peace; but I'll cool them, with a vengeance, very soon. I have not
heard from the Bishop of Clogher, whether he has got his statues.(6) I writ to him six weeks
ago; he's so busy with his Parliament. I won't answer your letter yet, say what you will, saucy
girls.

27. It has been a terrible rainy day, but so flattering in the morning, that I would needs
go out in my new hat. I met Leigh and Sterne as I was going into the Park. Leigh says he will
go to Ireland in ten days, if he can get Sterne to go with him; so I will send him the things
for MD, and I have desired him to inquire about the box. I hate that Sterne for his carelessness
about it; but it was my fault.

29. I was all this terrible rainy day with my friend Lewis upon business of importance; and
I dined with him, and came home about seven, and thought I would amuse myself a little, after
the pains I had taken. I saw a volume of Congreve's plays in my room, that Patrick had taken
to read; and I looked into it, and in mere loitering read in it till twelve, like an owl and
a fool: if ever I do so again; never saw the like. Count Gallas,(7) the Emperor's Envoy, you
will hear, is in disgrace with us: the Queen has ordered her Ministers to have no more commerce
with him; the reason is, the fool writ a rude letter to Lord Dartmouth, Secretary of State,
complaining of our proceedings about a peace; and he is always in close confidence with Lord
Wharton and Sunderland, and others of the late Ministry. I believe you begin to think there
will be no peace; the Whigs here are sure it cannot be, and stocks are fallen again. But I
am confident there will, unless France plays us tricks; and you may venture a wager with any
of your Whig acquaintance that we shall not have another campaign. You will get more by it
than by ombre, sirrah.--I let slip telling you yesterday's journal, which I thought to have
done this morning, but blundered. I dined yesterday at Harry Coote's, with Lord Hatton,(8)
Mr. Finch, a son of Lord Nottingham, and Sir Andrew Fountaine. I left them soon, but hear they
stayed till two in the morning, and were all drunk: and so good-night for last night, and good-night
for to-night. You blundering goosecap, an't you ashamed to blunder to young ladies? I shall
have a fire in three or four days now, oh ho.

30. I was to-day in the City concerting some things with a printer, and am to be to-morrow
all day busy with Mr. Secretary about the same. I won't tell you now; but the Ministers reckon
it will do abundance of good, and open the eyes of the nation, who are half bewitched against
a peace. Few of this generation can remember anything but war and taxes, and they think it
is as it should be; whereas 'tis certain we are the most undone people in Europe, as I am afraid
I shall make appear beyond all contradiction. But I forgot; I won't tell you what I will do,
nor what I will not do: so let me alone, and go to Stoyte, and give Goody Stoyte and Catherine
my humble service; I love Goody Stoyte better than Goody Walls. Who'll pay me for this green
apron? I will have the money; it cost ten shillings and sixpence. I think it plaguy dear for
a cheap thing; but they said that English silk would cockle,(9) and I know not what. You have
the making into the bargain. 'Tis right Italian: I have sent it and the pamphlets to Leigh,
and will send the Miscellanies and spectacles in a day or two. I would send more; but, faith,
I'm plaguy poor at present.

31. The devil's in this Secretary: when I went this morning he had people with him; but says
he, "we are to dine with Prior to-day, and then will do all our business in the afternoon":
at two, Prior sends word he is otherwise engaged; then the Secretary and I go and dine with
Brigadier Britton, sit till eight, grow merry, no business done; he is in haste to see Lady
Jersey;(10) we part, and appoint no time to meet again. This is the fault of all the present
Ministers, teasing me to death for my assistance, laying the whole weight of their affairs
upon it, yet slipping opportunities. Lord Treasurer mends every day, though slowly: I hope
he will take care of himself. Pray, will you send to Parvisol to send me a bill of twenty pounds
as soon as he can, for I want money. I must have money; I will have money, sirrahs.

Nov. 1. I went to-day into the City to settle some business with Stratford, and to dine with
him; but he was engaged, and I was so angry I would not dine with any other merchant, but went
to my printer, and ate a bit, and did business of mischief with him, and I shall have the spectacles
and Miscellany to-morrow, and leave them with Leigh. A fine day always makes me go into the
City, if I can spare time, because it is exercise; and that does me more good than anything.
I have heard nothing since of my head, but a little, I don't know how, sometimes: but I am
very temperate, especially now the Treasurer is ill, and the Ministers often at Hampton Court,
and the Secretary not yet fixed in his house, and I hate dining with many of my old acquaintance.
Here has been a fellow discovered going out of the East India House with sixteen thousand pounds
in money and bills; he would have escaped, if he had not been so uneasy with thirst, that he
stole out before his time, and was caught. But what is that to MD? I wish we had the money,
provided the East India Company was never the worse; you know we must not covet, etc. Our weather,
for this fortnight past, is chequered, a fair and a rainy day: this was very fine, and I have
walked four miles; wish MD would do so, lazy sluttikins.

2. It has rained all day with a continuendo, and I went in a chair to dine with Mrs. Van; always
there in a very rainy day. But I made a shift to come back afoot. I live a very retired life,
pay very few visits, and keep but very little company; I read no newspapers. I am sorry I sent
you the Examiner, for the printer is going to print them in a small volume: it seems the author
is too proud to have them printed by subscription, though his friends offered, they say, to
make it worth five hundred pounds to him. The Spectators are likewise printing in a larger
and a smaller volume, so I believe they are going to leave them off, and indeed people grow
weary of them, though they are often prettily written. We have had no news for me to send you
now towards the end of my letter. The Queen has the gout a little: I hoped the Lord Treasurer
would have had it too, but Radcliffe told me yesterday it was the rheumatism in his knee and
foot; however, he mends, and I hope will be abroad in a short time. I am told they design giving
away several employments before the Parliament sits, which will be the thirteenth instant.
I either do not like, or not understand this policy; and if Lord Treasurer does not mend soon,
they must give them just before the session. But he is the greatest procrastinator in the world.

3. A fine day this, and I walked a pretty deal. I stuffed the Secretary's pockets with papers,
which he must read and settle at Hampton Court, where he went to-day, and stays some time.
They have no lodgings for me there, so I can't go, for the town is small, chargeable, and inconvenient.
O Lord, where is it? let me see; so, so, here it is. You grudge writing so soon. Pox on that
bill! the woman would have me manage that money for her. I do not know what to do with it now
I have it: I am like the unprofitable steward in the Gospel: I laid it up in a napkin; there
thou hast what is thine own, etc. Well, well, I know of your new Mayor. (I'll tell you a pun:
a fishmonger owed a man two crowns; so he sent him a piece of bad ling and a tench, and then
said he was paid: how is that now? find it out; for I won't tell it you: which of you finds
it out?) Well, but as I was saying, what care I for your Mayor? I fancy Ford may tell Forbes
right about my returning to Ireland before Christmas, or soon after. I'm sorry you did not
go on with your story about Pray God you be John; I never heard it in my life, and wonder what
it can be.--Ah, Stella, faith, you leaned upon your Bible to think what to say when you writ
that. Yes, that story of the Secretary's making me an example is true; "never heard it before;"
why, how could you hear it? is it possible to tell you the hundredth part of what passes in
our companies here? His only fault is talking to his friends in way of complaint of too great
a load of business, which looks a little like affectation; and he endeavours too much to mix
the fine gentleman and man of pleasure with the man of business. What truth and sincerity he
may have I know not: he is now but thirty-two, and has been Secretary above a year. Is not
all this extraordinary? how he stands with the Queen and Lord Treasurer I have told you before.
This is his character; and I believe you will be diverted by knowing it. I writ to the Archbishop
of Dublin, Bishop of Cloyne(12) and of Clogher together, five weeks ago from Windsor: I hope
they had my letters; pray know if Clogher had his.--Fig for your physician and his advice,
Madam Dingley: if I grow worse, I will; otherwise I will trust to temperance and exercise:
your fall of the leaf; what care I when the leaves fall? I am sorry to see them fall with all
my heart; but why should I take physic because leaves fall off from trees? that won't hinder
them from falling. If a man falls from a horse, must I take physic for that?--This arguing
makes you mad; but it is true right reason, not to be disproved.--I am glad at heart to hear
poor Stella is better; use exercise and walk, spend pattens and spare potions, wear out clogs
and waste claret. Have you found out my pun of the fishmonger? don't read a word more till
you have got it. And Stella is handsome again, you say? and is she fat? Then an answer to the
letter to the Lords about Gregg by Presto; Prior's Journey by Presto; Vindication of the Duke
of Marlborough, entirely by the same woman; Comment on Hare's Sermon by the same woman, only
hints sent to the printer from Presto to give her.(15) Then there's the Miscellany, an apron
for Stella, a pound of chocolate, without sugar, for Stella, a fine snuff-rasp of ivory, given
me by Mrs. St. John for Dingley, and a large roll of tobacco, which she must hide or cut shorter
out of modesty, and four pair of spectacles for the Lord knows who. There's the cargo, I hope
it will come safe. Oh, Mrs. Masham and I are very well; we write to one another, but it is
upon business; I believe I told you so before: pray pardon my forgetfulness in these cases;
poor Presto can't help it. MD shall have the money as soon as Tooke gets it. And so I think
I have answered all, and the paper is out, and now I have fetched up my week, and will send
you another this day fortnight.--Why, you rogues, two crowns make TENCH-ILL-LING:(16) you are
so dull you could never have found it out. Farewell, etc. etc.

LETTER 34.

LONDON, Nov. 3, 1711.

My thirty-third lies now before me just finished, and I am going to seal and send it, so let
me know whether you would have me add anything: I gave you my journal of this day; and it is
now nine at night, and I am going to be busy for an hour or two.

4. I left a friend's house to-day where I was invited, just when dinner was setting on, and
pretended I was engaged, because I saw some fellows I did not know; and went to Sir Matthew
Dudley's, where I had the same inconvenience, but he would not let me go; otherwise I would
have gone home, and sent for a slice of mutton and a pot of ale, rather than dine with persons
unknown, as bad, for aught I know, as your deans, parsons, and curates. Bad slabby weather
to-day.--Now methinks I write at ease, when I have no letter of MD's to answer. But I mistook,
and have got the large paper. The Queen is laid up with the gout at Hampton Court: she is now
seldom without it any long time together; I fear it will wear her out in a very few years.
I plainly find I have less twitchings about my toes since these Ministers are sick and out
of town, and that I don't dine with them. I would compound for a light easy gout to be perfectly
well in my head.--Pray walk when the frost comes, young ladies go a frost-biting. It comes
into my head, that, from the very time you first went to Ireland, I have been always plying
you to walk and read. The young fellows here have begun a kind of fashion to walk, and many
of them have got swingeing strong shoes on purpose; it has got as far as several young lords;
if it hold, it would be a very good thing. Lady Lucy(1) and I are fallen out; she rails at
me, and I have left visiting her.

5. MD was very troublesome to me last night in my sleep; I was a dreamed, methought, that Stella
was here. I asked her after Dingley, and she said she had left her in Ireland, because she
designed her stay to be short, and such stuff.--Monsieur Pontchartain, the Secretary of State
in France, and Monsieur Fontenelle, the Secretary of the Royal Academy there (who writ the
Dialogues des Morts, etc.), have sent letters to Lord Pembroke that the Academy have, with
the King's consent, chosen him one of their members in the room of one who is lately dead.
But the cautious gentleman has given me the letters to show my Lord Dartmouth and Mr. St. John,
our two Secretaries, and let them see there is no treason in them; which I will do on Wednesday,
when they come from Hampton Court. The letters are very handsome, and it is a very great mark
of honour and distinction to Lord Pembroke. I hear the two French Ministers are come over again
about the peace; but I have seen nobody of consequence to know the truth. I dined to-day with
a lady of my acquaintance, who was sick, in her bed-chamber, upon three herrings and a chicken:
the dinner was my bespeaking. We begin now to have chestnuts and Seville oranges; have you
the latter yet? 'Twas a terrible windy day, and we had processions in carts of the Pope and
the Devil, and the butchers rang their cleavers. You know this is the Fifth of November, Popery
and gunpowder.

6. Since I am used to this way of writing, I fancy I could hardly make out a long letter to
MD without it. I think I ought to allow for every line taken up by telling you where I dined;
but that will not be above seven lines in all, half a line to a dinner. Your Ingoldsby(2) is
going over, and they say here he is to be made a lord.--Here was I staying in my room till
two this afternoon for that puppy Sir Andrew Fountaine, who was to go with me into the City,
and never came; and if I had not shot a dinner flying, with one Mr. Murray, I might have fasted,
or gone to an alehouse.--You never said one word of Goody Stoyte in your letter; but I suppose
these winter nights we shall hear more of her. Does the Provost(3) laugh as much as he used
to do? We reckon him here a good-for-nothing fellow.--I design to write to your Dean one of
these days, but I can never find time, nor what to say.--I will think of something: but if
DD(4) were not in Ireland I believe seriously I should not think of the place twice a year.
Nothing there ever makes the subject of talk in any company where I am.

7. I went to-day to the City on business; but stopped at a printer's, and stayed there: it
was a most delicious day. I hear the Parliament is to be prorogued for a fortnight longer;
I suppose, either because the Queen has the gout, or that Lord Treasurer is not well, or that
they would do something more towards a peace. I called at Lord Treasurer's at noon, and sat
a while with Lord Harley, but his father was asleep. A bookseller has reprinted or new-titled
a sermon of Tom Swift's,(5) printed last year, and publishes an advertisement calling it Dr.
Swift's Sermon. Some friend of Lord Galway(6) has, by his directions, published a four-shilling
book about his conduct in Spain, to defend him; I have but just seen it. But what care you
for books, except Presto's Miscellanies? Leigh promised to call and see me, but has not yet;
I hope he will take care of his cargo, and get your Chester box. A murrain take that box! everything
is spoiled that is in it. How does the strong box do? You say nothing of Raymond: is his wife
brought to bed again; or how? has he finished his house; paid his debts; and put out the rest
of the money to use? I am glad to hear poor Joe is like to get his two hundred pounds. I suppose
Trim is now reduced to slavery again. I am glad of it; the people were as great rascals as
the gentlemen. But I must go to bed, sirrahs: the Secretary is still at Hampton Court with
my papers, or is come only to-night. They plague me with attending them.

8. I was with the Secretary this morning, and we dined with Prior, and did business this afternoon
till about eight; and I must alter and undo, and a clutter. I am glad the Parliament is prorogued.
I stayed with Prior till eleven; the Secretary left us at eight. Prior, I believe, will be
one of those employed to make the peace, when a Congress is opened. Lord Ashburnham told to-day
at the Coffee-house that Lord Harley(7) was yesterday morning married to the Duke of Newcastle's
daughter, the great heiress, and it got about all the town. But I saw Lord Harley yesterday
at noon in his nightgown, and he dined in the City with Prior and others; so it is not true;
but I hope it will be so; for I know it has been privately managing this long time:(8) the
lady will not have half her father's estate; for the Duke left Lord Pelham's son his heir.(9)
The widow Duchess will not stand to the will, and she is now at law with Pelham. However, at
worst, the girl will have about ten thousand pounds a year to support the honour; for Lord
Treasurer will never save a groat for himself. Lord Harley is a very valuable young gentleman;
and they say the girl is handsome, and has good sense, but red hair.

9. I designed a jaunt into the City to-day to be merry, but was disappointed; so one always
is in this life; and I could not see Lord Dartmouth to-day, with whom I had some business.
Business and pleasure both disappointed. You can go to your Dean, and for want of him, Goody
Stoyte, or Walls, or Manley, and meet everywhere with cards and claret. I dined privately with
a friend on a herring and chicken, and half a flask of bad Florence. I begin to have fires
now, when the mornings are cold. I have got some loose bricks at the back of my grate for good
husbandry. Fine weather. Patrick tells me my caps are wearing out. I know not how to get others.
I want a necessary woman strangely. I am as helpless as an elephant.--I had three packets from
the Archbishop of Dublin, cost me four shillings, all about Higgins,(10) printed stuff, and
two long letters. His people forgot to enclose them to Lewis; and they were only directed to
Doctor Swift, without naming London or anything else. I wonder how they reached me, unless
the postmaster directed them. I have read all the trash, and am weary.

10. Why, if you must have it out, something is to be published of great moment,(11) and three
or four great people are to see there are no mistakes in point of fact: and 'tis so troublesome
to send it among them, and get their corrections, that I am weary as a dog. I dined to-day
with the printer, and was there all the afternoon; and it plagues me, and there's an end, and
what would you have? Lady Dupplin, Lord Treasurer's daughter,(12) is brought to bed of a son.
Lord Treasurer has had an ugly return of his gravel. 'Tis good for us to live in gravel pits,(13)
but not for gravel pits to live in us; a man in this case should leave no stone unturned. Lord
Treasurer's sickness, the Queen's gout, the forwarding the peace, occasion putting off the
Parliament a fortnight longer. My head has had no ill returns. I had good walking to-day in
the City, and take all opportunities of it on purpose for my health; but I can't walk in the
Park, because that is only for walking's sake, and loses time, so I mix it with business. I
wish MD walked half as much as Presto. If I was with you, I'd make you walk; I would walk behind
or before you, and you should have masks on, and be tucked up like anything; and Stella is
naturally a stout walker, and carries herself firm; methinks I see her strut, and step clever
over a kennel; and Dingley would do well enough if her petticoats were pinned up; but she is
so embroiled, and so fearful, and then Stella scolds, and Dingley stumbles, and is so daggled.(14)
Have you got the whalebone petticoats among you yet? I hate them; a woman here may hide a moderate
gallant under them. Pshaw, what's all this I'm saying? Methinks I am talking to MD face to face.

11. Did I tell you that old Frowde,(15) the old fool, is selling his estate at Pepperhara,
and is skulking about the town nobody knows where? and who do you think manages all this for
him, but that rogue Child,(16) the double squire of Farnham? I have put Mrs. Masham, the Queen's
favourite, upon buying it, but that is yet a great secret; and I have employed Lady Oglethorpe
to inquire about it. I was with Lady Oglethorpe to-day, who is come to town for a week or two,
and to-morrow I will see to hunt out the old fool: he is utterly ruined, and at this present
in some blind alley with some dirty wench. He has two sons that must starve, and he never gives
them a farthing. If Mrs. Masham buys the land, I will desire her to get the Queen to give some
pension to the old fool, to keep him from absolutely starving. What do you meddle with other
people's affairs for? says Stella. Oh, but Mr. Masham and his wife are very urgent with me,
since I first put them in the head of it. I dined with Sir Matthew Dudley, who, I doubt, will
soon lose his employment.

12. Morning. I am going to hunt out old Frowde, and to do some business in the City. I have
not yet called to Patrick to know whether it be fair.--It has been past dropping these two
days. Rainy weather hurts my pate and my purse. He tells me 'tis very windy, and begins to
look dark; woe be to my shillings! an old saying and a true,

     Few fillings,
     Many shillings.

If the day be dark, my purse will be light.

     To my enemies be this curse,
     A dark day and a light purse.

And so I'll rise, and go to my fire, for Patrick tells me I have a fire; yet it is not shaving-day,
nor is the weather cold; this is too extravagant. What is become of Dilly? I suppose you have
him with you. Stella is just now showing a white leg, and putting it into the slipper. Present
my service to her, and tell her I am engaged to the Dean, and desire she will come too: or,
Dingley, can't you write a note? This is Stella's morning dialogue, no, morning speech I mean.--Morrow,
sirrahs, and let me rise as well as you; but I promise you Walls can't dine with the Dean to-day,
for she is to be at Mrs. Proby's just after dinner, and to go with Gracy Spencer(17) to the
shops to buy a yard of muslin, and a silver lace for an under petticoat. Morrow again, sirrahs.--At
night. I dined with Stratford in the City, but could not finish my affairs with him; but now
I am resolved to buy five hundred pounds South Sea Stock, which will cost me three hundred
and eighty ready money; and I will make use of the bill of a hundred pounds you sent me, and
transfer Mrs. Walls over to Hawkshaw; or if she dislikes it, I will borrow a hundred pounds
of the Secretary, and repay her. Three shillings coach-hire to-day. I have spoken to Frowde's
brother to get me the lowest price of the estate, to tell Mrs. Masham.

13. I dined privately with a friend to-day in the neighbourhood. Last Saturday night I came
home, and the drab had just washed my room, and my bed-chamber was all wet, and I was forced
to go to bed in my own defence, and no fire: I was sick on Sunday, and now have got a swingeing
cold. I scolded like a dog at Patrick, although he was out with me: I detest washing of rooms;
can't they wash them in a morning, and make a fire, and leave open the windows? I slept not
a wink last night for hawking(18) and spitting: and now everybody has colds. Here's a clutter:
I'll go to bed and sleep if I can.

14. Lady Mountjoy sent to me two days ago, so I dined with her to-day, and in the evening went
to see Lord Treasurer. I found Patrick had been just there with a how d'ye,(19) and my lord
had returned answer that he desired to see me. Mrs. Masham was with him when I came, and they
are never disturbed: 'tis well she is not very handsome; they sit alone together settling the
nation. I sat with Lady Oxford, and stopped Mrs. Masham as she came out, and told her what
progress I had made, etc., and then went to Lord Treasurer: he is very well, only uneasy at
rising or sitting, with some rheumatic pain in his thigh, and a foot weak. He showed me a small
paper, sent by an unknown hand to one Mr. Cook, who sent it to my lord: it was written in plain
large letters thus

     "Though G----d's knife did not succeed,
      A F----n's yet may do the deed."

And a little below: "BURN THIS, YOU DOG." My lord has frequently such letters as these: once
he showed me one, which was a vision describing a certain man, his dress, his sword, and his
countenance, who was to murder my lord. And he told me he saw a fellow in the chapel at Windsor
with a dress very like it. They often send him letters signed, "Your humble servant, The Devil,"
and such stuff. I sat with him till after ten, and have business to do.

15. The Secretary came yesterday to town from Hampton Court, so I went to him early this morning;
but he went back last night again: and coming home to-night I found a letter from him to tell
me that he was just come from Hampton Court, and just returning, and will not be here till
Saturday night. A pox take him! he stops all my business. I'll beg leave to come back when
I have got over this, and hope to see MD in Ireland soon after Christmas.--I'm weary of Courts,
and want my journeys to Laracor; they did me more good than all the Ministries these twenty
years. I dined to-day in the City, but did no business as I designed. Lady Mountjoy tells me
that Dilly is got to Ireland, and that the Archbishop of Dublin was the cause of his returning
so soon. The Parliament was prorogued two days ago for a fortnight, which, with the Queen's
absence, makes the town very dull and empty. They tell me the Duke of Ormond brings all the
world away with him from Ireland. London has nothing so bad in it in winter as your knots of
Irish folks; but I go to no coffee-house, and so I seldom see them. This letter shall go on
Saturday; and then I am even with the world again. I have lent money, and cannot get it, and
am forced to borrow for myself.

16. My man made a blunder this morning, and let up a visitor, when I had ordered to see nobody;
so I was forced to hurry a hang-dog instrument of mine into my bed-chamber, and keep him cooling
his heels there above an hour.--I am going on fairly in the common forms of a great cold; I
believe it will last me about ten days in all.--I should have told you, that in those two verses
sent to Lord Treasurer, G---d stands for Guiscard; that is easy; but we differed about F---n;
I thought it was for Frenchman, because he hates them, and they him: and so it would be, That
although Guiscard's knife missed its design, the knife of a Frenchman might yet do it. My lord
thinks it stands for Felton, the name of him that stabbed the first Duke of Buckingham. Sir
Andrew Fountaine and I dined with the Vans to-day, and my cold made me loiter all the evening.
Stay, young women, don't you begin to owe me a letter? just a month to-day since I had your
N.22. I'll stay a week longer, and then, I'll expect like agog; till then you may play at ombre,
and so forth, as you please. The Whigs are still crying down our peace, but we will have it,
I hope, in spite of them: the Emperor comes now with his two eggs a penny, and promises wonders
to continue the war; but it is too late; only I hope the fear of it will serve to spur on the
French to be easy and sincere: Night, sirrahs; I'll go early to bed.

17. Morning. This goes to-night; I will put it myself in the post-office. I had just now a
long letter from the Archbishop of Dublin, giving me an account of the ending your session,
how it ended in a storm; which storm, by the time it arrives here, will be only half nature.
I can't help it, I won't hide. I often advised the dissolution of that Parliament, although
I did not think the scoundrels had so much courage; but they have it only in the wrong, like
a bully that will fight for a whore, and run away in an army. I believe, by several things
the Archbishop says, he is not very well either with the Government or clergy.--See how luckily
my paper ends with a fortnight.--God Almighty bless and preserve dearest little MD.--I suppose
your Lord Lieutenant is now setting out for England. I wonder the Bishop of Clogher does not
write to me, or let me know of his statues, and how he likes them: I will write to him again,
as soon as I have leisure. Farewell, dearest MD, and love Presto, who loves MD infinitely above
all earthly things, and who will.--My service to Mrs. Stoyte and Catherine. I'm sitting in
my bed, but will rise to seal this. Morrow, dear rogues: Farewell again, dearest MD, etc.

LETTER 35.

LONDON, NOV. 17, 1711.

I put my last this evening in the post-office. I dined with Dr. Cockburn. This being Queen
Elizabeth's birthday, we have the D---- and all to do among us. I just heard of the stir as
my letter was sealed this morning, and was so cross I would not open it to tell you. I have
been visiting Lady Oglethorpe(1) and Lady Worsley;(2) the latter is lately come to town for
the winter, and with child, and what care you? This is Queen Elizabeth's birthday, usually
kept in this town by apprentices, etc.; but the Whigs designed a mighty procession by midnight,
and had laid out a thousand pounds to dress up the Pope, Devil, cardinals, Sacheverell, etc.,
and carry them with torches about, and burn them. They did it by contribution. Garth gave five
guineas; Dr. Garth I mean, if ever you heard of him. But they were seized last night, by order
from the Secretary: you will have an account of it, for they bawl it about the streets already.(3)
They had some very foolish and mischievous designs; and it was thought they would have put
the rabble upon assaulting my Lord Treasurer's house and the Secretary's, and other violences.
The militia was raised to prevent it, and now, I suppose, all will be quiet. The figures are
now at the Secretary's office at Whitehall. I design to see them if I can.

18. I was this morning with Mr. Secretary, who just came from Hampton Court. He was telling
me more particulars about this business of burning the Pope. It cost a great deal of money,
and had it gone on, would have cost three times as much; but the town is full of it, and half
a dozen Grub Street papers already. The Secretary and I dined at Brigadier Britton's, but I
left them at six, upon an appointment with some sober company of men and ladies, to drink punch
at Sir Andrew Fountaine's. We were not very merry; and I don't love rack punch, I love it better
with brandy; are you of my opinion? Why then, twelvepenny weather; sirrahs, why don't you play
at shuttlecock? I have thought of it a hundred times; faith, Presto will come over after Christmas,
and will play with Stella before the cold weather is gone. Do you read the Spectators? I never
do; they never come in my way; I go to no coffee-houses. They say abundance of them are very
pretty; they are going to be printed in small volumes; I'll bring them over with me. I shall
be out of my hurry in a week, and if Leigh be not gone over, I will send you by him what I
am now finishing. I don't know where Leigh is; I have not seen him this good while, though
he promised to call: I shall send to him. The Queen comes to town on Thursday for good and all.

19. I was this morning at Lord Dartmouth's office, and sent out for him from the Committee
of Council, about some business. I was asking him more concerning this bustle about the figures
in wax-work of the Pope, and Devil, etc. He was not at leisure, or he would have seen them.
I hear the owners are so impudent, that they design to replevin them by law. I am assured that
the figure of the Devil is made as like Lord Treasurer as they could. Why, I dined with a friend
in St. James's Street. Lord Treasurer, I am told, was abroad to-day; I will know to-morrow
how he does after it. The Duke of Marlborough is come, and was yesterday at Hampton Court with
the Queen; no, it was t'other day; no, it was yesterday; for to-day I remember Mr. Secretary
was going to see him, when I was there, not at the Duke of Marlborough's, but at the Secretary's;
the Duke is not so fond of me. What care I? I won seven shillings to-night at picquet: I play
twice a year or so.

20. I have been so teased with Whiggish discourse by Mrs. Barton and Lady Betty Germaine, never
saw the like. They turn all this affair of the Pope-burning into ridicule; and, indeed, they
have made too great a clutter about it, if they had no real reason to apprehend some tumults.
I dined with Lady Betty. I hear Prior's commission is passed to be Ambassador Extraordinary
and Plenipotentiary for the peace; my Lord Privy Seal, who you know is Bishop of Bristol, is
the other; and Lord Strafford, already Ambassador at The Hague, the third: I am forced to tell
you, ignorant sluts, who is who. I was punning scurvily with Sir Andrew Fountaine and Lord
Pembroke this evening: do you ever pun now? Sometimes with the Dean, or Tom Leigh.(4) Prior
puns very well. Odso, I must go see His Excellency, 'tis a noble advancement: but they could
do no less, after sending him to France. Lord Strafford is as proud as Hell, and how he will
bear one of Prior's mean birth on an equal character with him, I know not. And so I go to my
business, and bid you good-night.

21. I was this morning busy with my printer: I gave him the fifth sheet,(5) and then I went
and dined with him in the City, to correct something, and alter, etc., and I walked home in
the dusk, and the rain overtook me: and I found a letter here from Mr. Lewis; well, and so
I opened it; and he says the peace is past danger, etc. Well, and so there was another letter
enclosed in his: well, and so I looked on the outside of this t'other letter. Well, and so
who do you think this t'other letter was from? Well, and so I'll tell you; it was from little
MD, N.23, 23, 23, 23. I tell you it is no more, I have told you so before: but I just looked
again to satisfy you. Hie, Stella, you write like an emperor, a great deal together; a very
good hand, and but four false spellings in all. Shall I send them to you? I am glad you did
not take my correction ill. Well, but I won't answer your letter now, sirrah saucyboxes, no,
no; not yet; just a month and three days from the last, which is just five weeks: you see it
comes just when I begin to grumble.

22. Morning. Tooke has just brought me Dingley's money. I will give you a note for it at the
end of this letter. There was half a crown for entering the letter of attorney; but I swore
to stop that. I'll spend your money bravely here. Morrow, dear sirrahs.--At night. I dined
to-day with Sir Thomas Hanmer; his wife, the Duchess of Grafton,(6) dined with us: she wears
a great high head-dress, such as was in fashion fifteen years ago, and looks like a mad woman
in it; yet she has great remains of beauty. I was this evening to see Lord Harley, and thought
to have sat with Lord Treasurer, but he was taken up with the Dutch Envoy and such folks; and
I would not stay. One particular in life here, different from what I have in Dublin, is, that
whenever I come home I expect to find some letter for me, and seldom miss; and never any worth
a farthing, but often to vex me. The Queen does not come to town till Saturday. Prior is not
yet declared; but these Ministers being at Hampton Court, I know nothing; and if I write news
from common hands, it is always lies. You will think it affectation; but nothing has vexed
me more for some months past, than people I never saw pretending to be acquainted with me,
and yet speak ill of me too; at least some of them. An old crooked Scotch countess, whom I
never heard of in my life, told the Duchess of Hamilton(7) t'other day that I often visited
her. People of worth never do that; so that a man only gets the scandal of having scurvy acquaintance.
Three ladies were railing against me some time ago, and said they were very well acquainted
with me; two of which I had never heard of, and the third I had only seen twice where I happened
to visit. A man who has once seen me in a coffee-house will ask me how I do, when he sees me
talking at Court with a Minister of State; who is sure to ask me how I came acquainted with
that scoundrel. But come, sirrahs, this is all stuff to you, so I'll say no more on this side
the paper, but turn over.

23. My printer invited Mr. Lewis and me to dine at a tavern to-day, which I have not done five
times since I came to England; I never will call it Britain, pray don't call it Britain. My
week is not out, and one side of this paper is out, and I have a letter to answer of MD's into
the bargain: must I write on the third side? faith, that will give you an ill habit. I saw
Leigh last night: he gives a terrible account of Sterne; he reckons he is seduced by some wench;
he is over head and ears in debt, and has pawned several things. Leigh says he goes on Monday
next for Ireland, but believes Sterne will not go with him; Sterne has kept him these three
months. Leigh has got the apron and things, and promises to call for the box at Chester; but
I despair of it. Good-night, sirrahs; I have been late abroad.

24. I have finished my pamphlet(8) to-day, which has cost me so much time and trouble: it will
be published in three or four days, when the Parliament begins sitting. I suppose the Queen
is come to town, but know nothing, having been in the City finishing and correcting with the
printer. When I came home, I found letters on my table as usual, and one from your mother,
to tell me that you desire your writings and a picture should be sent to me, to be sent over
to you. I have just answered her letter, and promised to take care of them if they be sent
to me. She is at Farnham: it is too late to send them by Leigh; besides, I will wait your orders,
Madam Stella. I am going to finish a letter to Lord Treasurer about reforming our language;(9)
but first I must put an end to a ballad; and go you to your cards, sirrahs, this is card season.

25. I was early with the Secretary to-day, but he was gone to his devotions, and to receive
the sacrament: several rakes did the same; it was not for piety, but employments; according
to Act of Parliament. I dined with Lady Mary Dudley;(10) and passed my time since insipidly,
only I was at Court at noon, and saw fifty acquaintance I had not met this long time: that
is the advantage of a Court, and I fancy I am better known than any man that goes there. Sir
John Walter's(11) quarrel with me has entertained the town ever since; and yet we never had
a word, only he railed at me behind my back. The Parliament is again to be prorogued for eight
or nine days, for the Whigs are too strong in the House of Lords: other reasons are pretended,
but that is the truth. The prorogation is not yet known, but will be to-morrow.

26. Mr. Lewis and I dined with a friend of his, and unexpectedly there dined with us an Irish
knight, one Sir John St. Leger,(12) who follows the law here, but at a great distance: he was
so pert, I was forced to take him down more than once. I saw to-day the Pope, and Devil, and
the other figures of cardinals, etc., fifteen in all, which have made such a noise. I have
put an under-strapper upon writing a twopenny pamphlet(13) to give an account of the whole
design. My large pamphlet(14) will be published to-morrow; copies are sent to the great men
this night. Domville(15) is come home from his travels; I am vexed at it: I have not seen him
yet; I design to present him to all the great men.

27. Domville came to me this morning, and we dined at Pontack's, and were all day together,
till six this evening: he is perfectly as fine a gentleman as I know; he set me down at Lord
Treasurer's, with whom I stayed about an hour, till Monsieur Buys, the Dutch Envoy, came to
him about business. My Lord Treasurer is pretty well, but stiff in the hips with the remains
of the rheumatism. I am to bring Domville to my Lord Harley in a day or two. It was the dirtiest
rainy day that ever I saw. The pamphlet is published; Lord Treasurer had it by him on the table,
and was asking me about the mottoes in the title-page; he gave me one of them himself.(16)
I must send you the pamphlet, if I can.

28. Mrs. Van sent to me to dine with her to-day, because some ladies of my acquaintance were
to be there; and there I dined. I was this morning to return Domville his visit, and went to
visit Mrs. Masham, who was not within. I am turned out of my lodging by my landlady: it seems
her husband and her son are coming home; but I have taken another lodging hard by, in Leicester
Fields. I presented Mr. Domville to Mr. Lewis and Mr. Prior this morning. Prior and I are called
the two Sosias,(17) in a Whig newspaper. Sosias, can you read it? The pamphlet begins to make
a noise: I was asked by several whether I had seen it, and they advised me to read it, for
it was something very extraordinary. I shall be suspected; and it will have several paltry
answers. It must take its fate, as Savage(18) said of his sermon that he preached at Farnham
on Sir William Temple's death. Domville saw Savage in Italy, and says he is a coxcomb, and
half mad: he goes in red, and with yellow waistcoats, and was at ceremony kneeling to the Pope
on a Palm Sunday, which is much more than kissing his toe; and I believe it will ruin him here
when 'tis told. I'll answer your letter in my new lodgings: I have hardly room; I must borrow
from the other side.

29. New lodgings. My printer came this morning to tell me he must immediately print a second
edition,(19) and Lord Treasurer made one or two small additions: they must work day and night
to have it out on Saturday; they sold a thousand in two days. Our Society met to-day; nine
of us were present: we dined at our brother Bathurst's.(20) We made several regulations, and
have chosen three new members, Lord Orrery,(21) Jack Hill, who is Mrs. Masham's brother, he
that lately miscarried in the expedition to Quebec, and one Colonel Disney.(22)--We have taken
a room in a house near St. James's to meet in. I left them early about correcting the pamphlet,
etc., and am now got home, etc.

30. This morning I carried Domville to see my Lord Harley, and I did some business with Lord
Treasurer, and have been all this afternoon with the printer, adding something to the second
edition. I dined with the printer: the pamphlet makes a world of noise, and will do a great
deal of good; it tells abundance of most important facts which were not at all known. I'll
answer your letter to-morrow morning; or suppose I answer it just now, though it is pretty
late. Come then.--You say you are busy with Parliaments, etc.; that's more than ever I will
be when I come back; but you will have none these two years. Lord Santry, etc., yes, I have
had enough on't.(23) I am glad Dilly is mended; does not he thank me for showing him the Court
and the great people's faces? He had his glass out at the Queen and the rest. 'Tis right what
Dilly says: I depend upon nothing from my friends, but to go back as I came. Never fear Laracor,
'twill mend with a peace, or surely they'll give me the Dublin parish. Stella is in the right:
the Bishop of Ossory(24) is the silliest, best-natured wretch breathing, of as little consequence
as an egg-shell. Well, the spelling I have mentioned before; only the next time say AT LEAST,
and not AT LEST. Pox on your Newbury!(25) what can I do for him? I'll give his case (I am glad
it is not a woman's) to what members I know; that's all I can do. Lord Treasurer's lameness
goes off daily. Pray God preserve poor good Mrs. Stoyte; she would be a great loss to us all:
pray give her my service, and tell her she has my heartiest prayers. I pity poor Mrs. Manley;
but I think the child is happy to die, considering how little provision it would have had.--Poh,
every pamphlet abuses me, and for things that I never writ. Joe(26) should have written me
thanks for his two hundred pounds: I reckon he got it by my means; and I must thank the Duke
of Ormond, who I dare swear will say he did it on my account. Are they golden pippins, those
seven apples? We have had much rain every day as well as you. 7 pounds, 17 shillings, 8 pence,
old blunderer, not 18 shillings: I have reckoned it eighteen times. Hawkshaw's eight pounds
is not reckoned and if it be secure, it may lie where it is, unless they desire to pay it:
so Parvisol may let it drop till further orders; for I have put Mrs. Wesley's money into the
Bank, and will pay her with Hawkshaw's.--I mean that Hawkshaw's money goes for an addition
to MD, you know; but be good housewives. Bernage never comes now to see me; he has no more
to ask; but I hear he has been ill.--A pox on Mrs. South's(27) affair; I can do nothing in
it, but by way of assisting anybody else that solicits it, by dropping a favourable word, if
it comes in my way. Tell Walls I do no more for anybody with my Lord Treasurer, especially
a thing of this kind. Tell him I have spent all my discretion, and have no more to use.--And
so I have answered your letter fully and plainly.--And so I have got to the third side of my
paper, which is more than belongs to you, young women.

     It goes to-morrow,
     To nobody's sorrow.

You are silly, not I; I'm a poet, if I had but, etc.--Who's silly now? rogues and lasses, tinderboxes
and buzzards. O Lord, I am in a high vein of silliness; methought I was speaking to dearest
little MD face to face. There; so, lads, enough for to-night; to cards with the blackguards.
Goodnight, my delight, etc.

Dec. 1. Pish, sirrahs, put a date always at the bottom of your letter, as well as the top,
that I may know when you send it; your last is of November 3, yet I had others at the same
time, written a fortnight after. Whenever you would have any money, send me word three weeks
before, and in that time you will certainly have an answer, with a bill on Parvisol: pray do
this; for my head is full, and it will ease my memory. Why, I think I quoted to you some of
----'s letter, so you may imagine how witty the rest was; for it was all of a bunch, as Goodman
Peesley(28) says. Pray let us have no more bussiness, but busyness: the deuce take me if I
know how to spell it; your wrong spelling, Madam Stella, has put me out: it does not look right;
let me see, bussiness, busyness, business, bisyness, bisness, bysness; faith, I know not which
is right, I think the second; I believe I never writ the word in my life before; yes, sure
I must, though; business, busyness, bisyness.--I have perplexed myself, and can't do it. Prithee
ask Walls. Business, I fancy that's right. Yes it is; I looked in my own pamphlet, and found
it twice in ten lines, to convince you that I never writ it before. Oh, now I see it as plain
as can be; so yours is only an s too much. The Parliament will certainly meet on Friday next:
the Whigs will have a great majority in the House of Lords, no care is taken to prevent it;
there is too much neglect; they are warned of it, and that signifies nothing: it was feared
there would be some peevish address from the Lords against a peace. 'Tis said about the town
that several of the Allies begin now to be content that a peace should be treated. This is
all the news I have. The Queen is pretty well: and so now I bid poor dearest MD farewell till
to-night; then I will talk with them again.

The fifteen images that I saw were not worth forty pounds, so I stretched a little when I said
a thousand. The Grub Street account of that tumult is published. The Devil is not like Lord
Treasurer: they were all in your odd antic masks, bought in common shops.(29) I fear Prior
will not be one of the plenipotentiaries.

I was looking over this letter, and find I make many mistakes of leaving out words; so 'tis
impossible to find my meaning, unless you be conjurers. I will take more care for the future,
and read over every day just what I have written that day, which will take up no time to speak of.

LETTER 36.

LONDON, Dec. 1, 1711.

My last was put in this evening. I intended to dine with Mr. Masham to-day, and called at White's
chocolate house to see if he was there. Lord Wharton saw me at the door, and I saw him, but
took no notice, and was going away, but he came through the crowd, called after me, and asked
me how I did, etc. This was pretty; and I believe he wished every word he spoke was a halter
to hang me. Masham did not dine at home, so I ate with a friend in the neighbourhood. The printer
has not sent me the second edition; I know not the reason, for it certainly came out to-day;
perhaps they are glutted with it already. I found a letter from Lord Harley on my table, to
tell me that his father desires I would make two small alterations. I am going to be busy, etc.

2. Morning. See the blunder; I was making it the 37th day of the month, from the number above.
Well, but I am staying here for old Frowde, who appointed to call this morning: I am ready
dressed to go to church: I suppose he dare not stir out but on Sundays.(1) The printer called
early this morning, told me the second edition went off yesterday in five hours, and he must
have a third ready to-morrow, for they might have sold half another: his men are all at work
with it, though it be Sunday. This old fool will not come, and I shall miss church. Morrow,
sirrahs.--At night. I was at Court to-day: the Queen is well, and walked through part of the
rooms. I dined with the Secretary, and despatched some business. He tells me the Dutch Envoy
designs to complain of that pamphlet. The noise it makes is extraordinary. It is fit it should
answer the pains I have been at about it. I suppose it will be printed in Ireland. Some lay
it to Prior, others to Mr. Secretary St. John, but I am always the first they lay everything
to. I'll go sleep, etc.

3. I have ordered Patrick not to let any odd fellow come up to me; and a fellow would needs
speak with me from Sir George Pretyman.(2) I had never heard of him, and would not see the
messenger: but at last it proved that this Sir George has sold his estate, and is a beggar.
Smithers, the Farnham carrier, brought me this morning a letter from your mother, with three
papers enclosed of Lady Giffard's writing; one owning some exchequer business of 100 pounds
to be Stella's;(3) another for 100 pounds that she has of yours, which I made over to you for
Mariston; and a third for 300 pounds; the last is on stamped paper. I think they had better
lie in England in some good hand till Lady Giffard dies; and I will think of some such hand
before I come over. I was asking Smithers about all the people of Farnham. Mrs. White(4) has
left off dressing, is troubled with lameness and swelled legs, and seldom stirs out; but her
old hang-dog husband as hearty as ever. I was this morning with Lord Treasurer, about something
he would have altered in the pamphlet;(5) but it can't be till the fourth edition, which I
believe will be soon; for I dined with the printer, and he tells me they have sold off half
the third. Mrs. Perceval(6) and her daughter have been in town these three weeks, which I never
heard till to-day; and Mrs. Wesley(7) is come to town too, to consult Dr. Radcliffe. The Whigs
are resolved to bring that pamphlet into the House of Lords to have it condemned, so I hear.
But the printer will stand to it, and not own the author; he must say he had it from the penny-post.
Some people talk as if the House of Lords would do some peevish thing, for the Whigs are now
a great majority in it; our Ministers are too negligent of such things: I have never slipped
giving them warning; some of them are sensible of it; but Lord Treasurer stands too much upon
his own legs. I fancy his good fortune will bear him out in everything; but in reason I should
think this Ministry to stand very unsteady; if they can carry a peace, they may hold; I believe
not else.

4. Mr. Secretary sent to me to-day to dine with him alone; but we had two more with us, which
hindered me doing some business. I was this morning with young Harcourt, secretary to our Society,
to take a room for our weekly meetings; and the fellow asked us five guineas a week only to
have leave to dine once a week; was not that pretty? so we broke off with him, and are to dine
next Thursday at Harcourt's (he is Lord Keeper's son). They have sold off above half the third
edition, and answers are coming out: the Dutch Envoy refused dining with Dr. Davenant,(8) because
he was suspected to write it: I have made some alterations in every edition, and it has cost
me more trouble, for the time, since the printing, than before. 'Tis sent over to Ireland,
and I suppose you will have it reprinted.

5. They are now printing the fourth edition, which is reckoned very extraordinary, considering
'tis a dear twelvepenny book, and not bought up in numbers by the party to give away, as the
Whigs do, but purely upon its own strength. I have got an under spur-leather to write an Examiner
again,(9) and the Secretary and I will now and then send hints; but we would have it a little
upon the Grub Street, to be a match for their writers. I dined with Lord Treasurer to-day at
five: he dined by himself after his family, and drinks no claret yet, for fear of his rheumatism,
of which he is almost well. He was very pleasant, as he is always: yet I fancied he was a little
touched with the present posture of affairs. The Elector of Hanover's Minister here has given
in a violent memorial against the peace, and caused it to be printed. The Whig lords are doing
their utmost for a majority against Friday, and design, if they can, to address the Queen against
the peace. Lord Nottingham,(10) a famous Tory and speech-maker, is gone over to the Whig side:
they toast him daily, and Lord Wharton says, It is Dismal (so they call him from his looks)
will save England at last. Lord Treasurer was hinting as if he wished a ballad was made on
him, and I will get up one against to-morrow.(11) He gave me a scurrilous printed paper of
bad verses on himself, under the name of the English Catiline, and made me read them to the
company. It was his birthday, which he would not tell us, but Lord Harley whispered it to me.

6. I was this morning making the ballad, two degrees above Grub Street: at noon I paid a visit
to Mrs. Masham, and then went to dine with our Society. Poor Lord Keeper dined below stairs,
I suppose, on a bit of mutton. We chose two members: we were eleven met, the greatest meeting
we ever had: I am next week to introduce Lord Orrery. The printer came before we parted, and
brought the ballad, which made them laugh very heartily a dozen times. He is going to print
the pamphlet(12) in small, a fifth edition, to be taken off by friends, and sent into the country.
A sixpenny answer is come out, good for nothing, but guessing me, among others, for the author.
To-morrow is the fatal day for the Parliament meeting, and we are full of hopes and fears.
We reckon we have a majority of ten on our side in the House of Lords; yet I observed Mrs.
Masham a little uneasy: she assures me the Queen is stout. The Duke of Marlborough has not
seen the Queen for some days past; Mrs. Masham is glad of it, because she says he tells a hundred
lies to his friends of what she says to him: he is one day humble, and the next day on the
high ropes. The Duke of Ormond, they say, will be in town to-night by twelve.

7. This being the day the Parliament was to meet, and the great question to be determined,
I went with Dr. Freind to dine in the City, on purpose to be out of the way, and we sent our
printer to see what was our fate; but he gave us a most melancholy account of things. The Earl
of Nottingham began, and spoke against a peace, and desired that in their address they might
put in a clause to advise the Queen not to make a peace without Spain; which was debated, and
carried by the Whigs by about six voices: and this has happened entirely by my Lord Treasurer's
neglect, who did not take timely care to make up all his strength, although every one of us
gave him caution enough. Nottingham has certainly been bribed. The question is yet only carried
in the Committee of the whole House, and we hope when it is reported to the House to-morrow,
we shall have a majority, by some Scotch lords coming to town. However, it is a mighty blow
and loss of reputation to Lord Treasurer, and may end in his ruin. I hear the thing only as
the printer brought it, who was at the debate; but how the Ministry take it, or what their
hopes and fears are, I cannot tell until I see them. I shall be early with the Secretary to-morrow,
and then I will tell you more, and shall write a full account to the Bishop of Clogher to-morrow,
and to the Archbishop of Dublin, if I have time. I am horribly down at present. I long to know
how Lord Treasurer bears this, and what remedy he has. The Duke of Ormond came this day to
town, and was there.

8. I was early this morning with the Secretary, and talked over this matter. He hoped that
when it was reported this day in the House of Lords, they would disagree with their Committee,
and so the matter would go off, only with a little loss of reputation to the Lord Treasurer.
I dined with Mr. Cockburn, and after, a Scotch member came in, and told us that the clause
was carried against the Court in the House of Lords almost two to one. I went immediately to
Mrs. Masham, and meeting Dr. Arbuthnot (the Queen's favourite physician), we went together.
She was just come from waiting at the Queen's dinner, and going to her own. She had heard nothing
of the thing being gone against us. It seems Lord Treasurer had been so negligent that he was
with the Queen while the question was put in the House: I immediately told Mrs. Masham that
either she and Lord Treasurer had joined with the Queen to betray us, or that they two were
betrayed by the Queen: she protested solemnly it was not the former, and I believed her; but
she gave me some lights to suspect the Queen is changed. For yesterday, when the Queen was
going from the House, where she sat to hear the debate, the Duke of Shrewsbury, Lord Chamberlain,
asked her whether he or the Great Chamberlain Lindsey(13) ought to lead her out; she answered
short, "Neither of you," and gave her hand to the Duke of Somerset, who was louder than any
in the House for the clause against peace. She gave me one or two more instances of this sort,
which convince me that the Queen is false, or at least very much wavering. Mr. Masham begged
us to stay, because Lord Treasurer would call, and we were resolved to fall on him about his
negligence in securing a majority. He came, and appeared in good humour as usual, but I thought
his countenance was much cast down. I rallied him, and desired him to give me his staff, which
he did: I told him, if he would secure it me a week, I would set all right: he asked how; I
said I would immediately turn Lord Marlborough, his two daughters,(14) the Duke and Duchess
of Somerset, and Lord Cholmondeley,(15) out of all their employments; and I believe he had
not a friend but was of my opinion. Arbuthnot asked how he came not to secure a majority. He
could answer nothing but that he could not help it, if people would lie and forswear. A poor
answer for a great Minister. There fell from him a Scripture expression, that "the hearts of
kings are unsearchable."(16) I told him it was what I feared, and was from him the worst news
he could tell me. I begged him to know what he had to trust to: he stuck a little; but at last
bid me not fear, for all would be well yet. We would fain have had him eat a bit where he was,
but he would go home, it was past six: he made me go home with him. There we found his brother
and Mr. Secretary. He made his son take a list of all in the House of Commons who had places,
and yet voted against the Court, in such a manner as if they should lose their places: I doubt
he is not able to compass it. Lord Keeper came in an hour, and they were going upon business.
So I left him, and returned to Mrs. Masham; but she had company with her, and I would not stay.--This
is a long journal, and of a day that may produce great alterations, and hazard the ruin of
England. The Whigs are all in triumph; they foretold how all this would be, but we thought
it boasting. Nay, they said the Parliament should be dissolved before Christmas, and perhaps
it may: this is all your d----d Duchess of Somerset's doings. I warned them of it nine months
ago, and a hundred times since: the Secretary always dreaded it. I told Lord Treasurer I should
have the advantage of him; for he would lose his head, and I should only be hanged, and so
carry my body entire to the grave.

9. I was this morning with Mr. Secretary: we are both of opinion that the Queen is false. I
told him what I heard, and he confirmed it by other circumstances. I then went to my friend
Lewis, who had sent to see me. He talks of nothing but retiring to his estate in Wales. He
gave me reasons to believe the whole matter is settled between the Queen and the Whigs; he
hears that Lord Somers is to be Treasurer, and believes that, sooner than turn out the Duchess
of Somerset, she will dissolve the Parliament, and get a Whiggish one, which may be done by
managing elections. Things are now in the crisis, and a day or two will determine. I have desired
him to engage Lord Treasurer that as soon as he finds the change is resolved on, he will send
me abroad as Queen's Secretary somewhere or other, where I may remain till the new Ministers
recall me; and then I will be sick for five or six months, till the storm has spent itself.
I hope he will grant me this; for I should hardly trust myself to the mercy of my enemies while
their anger is fresh. I dined to-day with the Secretary, who affects mirth, and seems to hope
all will yet be well. I took him aside after dinner, told him how I had served them, and had
asked no reward, but thought I might ask security; and then desired the same thing of him,
to send me abroad before a change. He embraced me, and swore he would take the same care of
me as himself, etc., but bid me have courage, for that in two days my Lord Treasurer's wisdom
would appear greater than ever; that he suffered all that had happened on purpose, and had
taken measures to turn it to advantage. I said, "God send it"; but I do not believe a syllable;
and, as far as I can judge, the game is lost. I shall know more soon, and my letters will at
least be a good history to show you the steps of this change.

10. I was this morning with Lewis, who thinks they will let the Parliament sit till they have
given the money, and then dissolve them in spring, and break the Ministry. He spoke to Lord
Treasurer about what I desired him. My lord desired him with great earnestness to assure me
that all would be well, and that I should fear nothing. I dined in the City with a friend.
This day the Commons went to the Queen with their address, and all the Lords who were for the
peace went with them, to show their zeal. I have now some further conviction that the Queen
is false, and it begins to be known.

11. I went between two and three to see Mrs. Masham; while I was there she went to her bed-chamber
to try a petticoat. Lord Treasurer came in to see her, and seeing me in the outer room, fell
a rallying me: says he, "You had better keep company with me, than with such a fellow as Lewis,
who has not the soul of a chicken, nor the heart of a mite." Then he went in to Mrs. Masham,
and as he came back desired her leave to let me go home with him to dinner. He asked whether
I was not afraid to be seen with him. I said I never valued my Lord Treasurer in my life, and
therefore should have always the same esteem for Mr. Harley and Lord Oxford. He seemed to talk
confidently, as if he reckoned that all this would turn to advantage. I could not forbear hinting
that he was not sure of the Queen, and that those scoundrel, starving lords would never have
dared to vote against the Court, if Somerset had not assured them that it would please the
Queen. He said that was true, and Somerset did so. I stayed till six; then De Buys, the Dutch
Envoy, came to him, and I left him. Prior was with us a while after dinner. I see him and all
of them cast down, though they make the best of it.

12. Ford is come to town; I saw him last night: he is in no fear, but sanguine, although I
have told him the state of things. This change so resembles the last, that I wonder they do
not observe it. The Secretary sent for me yesterday to dine with him, but I was abroad; I hope
he had something to say to me. This is morning, and I write in bed. I am going to the Duke
of Ormond, whom I have not yet seen. Morrow, sirrahs.--At night. I was to see the Duke of Ormond
this morning: he asked me two or three questions after his civil way, and they related to Ireland:
at last I told him that, from the time I had seen him, I never once thought of Irish affairs.
He whispered me that he hoped I had done some good things here: I said, if everybody else had
done half as much, we should not be as we are: then we went aside, and talked over affairs.
I told him how all things stood, and advised him what was to be done. I then went and sat an
hour with the Duchess; then as long with Lady Oglethorpe,(17) who is so cunning a devil that
I believe she could yet find a remedy, if they would take her advice. I dined with a friend
at Court.

13. I was this morning with the Secretary: he will needs pretend to talk as if things would
be well: "Will you believe it," said he, "if you see these people turned out?" I said, yes,
if I saw the Duke and Duchess of Somerset out: he swore if they were not, he would give up
his place. Our Society dined to-day at Sir William Wyndham's; we were thirteen present. Lord
Orrery and two other members were introduced: I left them at seven. I forgot to tell you that
the printer told me yesterday that Morphew, the publisher, was sent for by that Lord Chief-Justice,
who was a manager against Sacheverell; he showed him two or three papers and pamphlets; among
the rest mine of the Conduct of the Allies, threatened him, asked who was the author, and has
bound him over to appear next term. He would not have the impudence to do this, if he did not
foresee what was coming at Court.

14. Lord Shelburne was with me this morning, to be informed of the state of affairs, and desired
I would answer all his objections against a peace, which was soon done, for he would not give
me room to put in a word. He is a man of good sense enough; but argues so violently, that he
will some day or other put himself into a consumption. He desires that he may not be denied
when he comes to see me, which I promised, but will not perform. Leigh and Sterne set out for
Ireland on Monday se'nnight: I suppose they will be with you long before this.--I was to-night
drinking very good wine in scurvy company, at least some of them; I was drawn in, but will
be more cautious for the future; 'tis late, etc.

15. Morning. They say the Occasional Bill(19) is brought to-day into the House of Lords; but
I know not. I will now put an end to my letter, and give it into the post-house myself. This
will be a memorable letter, and I shall sigh to see it some years hence. Here are the first
steps toward the ruin of an excellent Ministry; for I look upon them as certainly ruined; and
God knows what may be the consequences.--I now bid my dearest MD farewell; for company is coming,
and I must be at Lord Dartmouth's office by noon. Farewell, dearest MD; I wish you a merry
Christmas; I believe you will have this about that time. Love Presto, who loves MD above all
things a thousand times. Farewell again, dearest MD, etc.

LETTER 37.

LONDON, Dec. 15, 1711.

I put in my letter this evening myself. I was to-day inquiring at the Secretary's office of
Mr. Lewis how things went: I there met Prior, who told me he gave all for gone, etc., and was
of opinion the whole Ministry would give up their places next week: Lewis thinks they will
not till spring, when the session is over; both of them entirely despair. I went to see Mrs.
Masham, who invited me to dinner; but I was engaged to Lewis. At four I went to Masham's. He
came and whispered me that he had it from a very good hand that all would be well, and I found
them both very cheerful. The company was going to the opera, but desired I would come and sup
with them. I did so at ten, and Lord Treasurer was there, and sat with us till past twelve,
and was more cheerful than I have seen him these ten days. Mrs. Masham told me he was mightily
cast down some days ago, and he could not indeed hide it from me. Arbuthnot is in good hopes
that the Queen has not betrayed us, but only has been frightened, and flattered, etc. But I
cannot yet be of his opinion, whether my reasons are better, or that my fears are greater.
I do resolve, if they give up, or are turned out soon, to retire for some months, and I have
pitched upon the place already: but I will take methods for hearing from MD, and writing to
them. But I would be out of the way upon the first of the ferment; for they lay all things
on me, even some I have never read.

16. I took courage to-day, and went to Court with a very cheerful countenance. It was mightily
crowded; both parties coming to observe each other's faces. I have avoided Lord Halifax's bow
till he forced it on me; but we did not talk together. I could not make less than fourscore
bows, of which about twenty might be to Whigs. The Duke of Somerset is gone to Petworth, and,
I hear, the Duchess too, of which I shall be very glad. Prince Eugene,(1) who was expected
here some days ago, we are now told, will not come at all. The Whigs designed to have met him
with forty thousand horse. Lord Treasurer told me some days ago of his discourse with the Emperor's
Resident, that puppy Hoffman, about Prince Eugene's coming; by which I found my lord would
hinder it, if he could; and we shall be all glad if he does not come, and think it a good point
gained. Sir Andrew Fountaine, Ford, and I dined to-day with Mrs. Van, by invitation.

17. I have mistaken the day of the month, and been forced to mend it thrice. I dined to-day
with Mr. Masham and his lady, by invitation. Lord Treasurer was to be there, but came not.
It was to entertain Buys, the Dutch Envoy, who speaks English well enough: he was plaguily
politic, telling a thousand lies, of which none passed upon any of us. We are still in the
condition of suspense, and I think have little hopes. The Duchess of Somerset is not gone to
Petworth; only the Duke, and that is a poor sacrifice. I believe the Queen certainly designs
to change the Ministry, but perhaps may put it off till the session is over: and I think they
had better give up now, if she will not deal openly; and then they need not answer for the
consequences of a peace, when it is in other hands, and may yet be broken. They say my Lord
Privy Seal sets out for Holland this week: so the peace goes on.

18. It has rained hard from morning till night, and cost me three shillings in coach-hire.
We have had abundance of wet weather. I dined in the City, and was with the printer, who has
now a fifth edition of the Conduct, etc.: it is in small, and sold for sixpence; they have
printed as many as three editions, because they are to be sent in numbers into the country
by great men, etc., who subscribe for hundreds. It has been sent a fortnight ago to Ireland:
I suppose you will print it there. The Tory Lords and Commons in Parliament argue all from
it; and all agree that never anything of that kind was of so great consequence, or made so
many converts. By the time I have sent this letter, I expect to hear from little MD: it will
be a month, two days hence, since I had your last, and I will allow ten days for accidents.
I cannot get rid of the leavings of a cold I got a month ago, or else it is a new one. I have
been writing letters all this evening till I am weary, and I am sending out another little
thing, which I hope to finish this week, and design to send to the printer in an unknown hand.
There was printed a Grub Street speech of Lord Nottingham;(2) and he was such an owl to complain
of it in the House of Lords, who have taken up the printer for it. I heard at Court that Walpole(3)
(a great Whig member) said that I and my whimsical Club writ it at one of our meetings, and
that I should pay for it. He will find he lies: and I shall let him know by a third hand my
thoughts of him. He is to be Secretary of State, if the Ministry changes; but he has lately
had a bribe proved against him in Parliament, while he was Secretary at War. He is one of the
Whigs' chief speakers.

19. Sad dismal weather. I went to the Secretary's office, and Lewis made me dine with him.
I intended to have dined with Lord Treasurer. I have not seen the Secretary this week. Things
do not mend at all. Lord Dartmouth despairs, and is for giving up; Lewis is of the same mind;
but Lord Treasurer only says, "Poh, poh, all will be well." I am come home early to finish
something I am doing; but I find I want heart and humour, and would read any idle book that
came in my way. I have just sent away a penny paper to make a little mischief. Patrick is gone
to the burial of an Irish footman, who was Dr. King's(4) servant; he died of a consumption,
a fit death for a poor starving wit's footman. The Irish servants always club to bury a countryman.

20. I was with the Secretary this morning, and, for aught I can see, we shall have a languishing
death: I can know nothing, nor themselves neither. I dined, you know, with our Society, and
that odious Secretary would make me President next week; so I must entertain them this day
se'nnight at the Thatched House Tavern,(5) where we dined to-day: it will cost me five or six
pounds; yet the Secretary says he will give me wine. I found a letter when I came home from
the Bishop of Clogher.

21. This is the first time I ever got a new cold before the old one was going: it came yesterday,
and appeared in all due forms, eyes and nose running, etc., and is now very bad; and I cannot
tell how I got it. Sir Andrew Fountaine and I were invited to dine with Mrs. Van. I was this
morning with the Duke of Ormond; and neither he nor I can think of anything to comfort us in
present affairs. We must certainly fall, if the Duchess of Somerset be not turned out; and
nobody believes the Queen will ever part with her. The Duke and I were settling when Mr. Secretary
and I should dine with him, and he fixes upon Tuesday; and when I came away I remembered it
was Christmas Day. I was to see Lady ----, who is just up after lying-in; and the ugliest sight
I have seen, pale, dead, old and yellow, for want of her paint. She has turned my stomach.
But she will soon be painted, and a beauty again.

22. I find myself disordered with a pain all round the small of my back, which I imputed to
champagne I had drunk; but find it to have been only my new cold. It was a fine frosty day,
and I resolved to walk into the City. I called at Lord Treasurer's at eleven, and stayed some
time with him.--He showed me a letter from a great Presbyterian parson(6) to him, complaining
how their friends had betrayed them by passing this Conformity Bill; and he showed me the answer
he had written, which his friends would not let him send; but was a very good one. He is very
cheerful; but gives one no hopes, nor has any to give. I went into the City, and there I dined.

23. Morning. As I was dressing to go to church, a friend that was to see me advised me not
to stir out; so I shall keep at home to-day, and only eat some broth, if I can get it. It is
a terrible cold frost, and snow fell yesterday, which still remains: look there, you may see
it from the penthouses. The Lords made yesterday two or three votes about peace, and Hanover,
of a very angry kind to vex the Ministry, and they will meet sooner by a fortnight than the
Commons; and they say, are preparing some knocking addresses. Morrow, sirrahs. I'll sit at
home, and when I go to bed I will tell you how I am.--I have sat at home all day, and eaten
only a mess of broth and a roll. I have written a Prophecy,(7) which I design to print; I did
it to-day, and some other verses.

24. I went into the City to-day in a coach, and dined there. My cold is going. It is now bitter
hard frost, and has been so these three or four days. My Prophecy is printed, and will be published
after Christmas Day; I like it mightily: I don't know how it will pass. You will never understand
it at your distance, without help. I believe everybody will guess it to be mine, because it
is somewhat in the same manner with that of "Merlin"(8) in the Miscellanies. My Lord Privy
Seal set out this day for Holland: he'll have a cold journey. I have taken a memorandum of
it, because I never design to give him a groat more. 'Tis cruel cold.

25. I wish MD a merry Christmas, and many a one; but mine is melancholy: I durst not go to
church to-day, finding myself a little out of order, and it snowing prodigiously, and freezing.
At noon I went to Mrs. Van, who had this week engaged me to dine there to-day: and there I
received the news that poor Mrs. Long(9) died at Lynn in Norfolk on Saturday last, at four
in the morning: she was sick but four hours. We suppose it was the asthma, which she was subject
to as well as the dropsy, as she sent me word in her last letter, written about five weeks
ago; but then said she was recovered. I never was more afflicted at any death. The poor creature
had retired to Lynn two years ago, to live cheap, and pay her debts. In her last letter she
told me she hoped to be easy by Christmas; and she kept her word, although she meant it otherwise.
She had all sorts of amiable qualities, and no ill ones, but the indiscretion of too much neglecting
her own affairs. She had two thousand pounds left her by an old grandmother,(10) with which
she intended to pay her debts, and live on an annuity she had of one hundred pounds a year,
and Newburg House, which would be about sixty pounds more. That odious grandmother living so
long, forced her to retire; for the two thousand pounds was settled on her after the old woman's
death, yet her brute of a brother, Sir James Long,(11) would not advance it for her; else she
might have paid her debts, and continued here, and lived still: I believe melancholy helped
her on to her grave. I have ordered a paragraph to be put in the Postboy,(12) giving an account
of her death, and making honourable mention of her; which is all I can do to serve her memory:
but one reason was spite; for her brother would fain have her death a secret, to save the charge
of bringing her up here to bury her, or going into mourning. Pardon all this, for the sake
of a poor creature I had so much friendship for.

26. I went to Mr. Secretary this morning, and he would have me dine with him. I called at noon
at Mrs. Masham's, who desired me not to let the Prophecy be published, for fear of angering
the Queen about the Duchess of Somerset; so I writ to the printer to stop them. They have been
printed and given about, but not sold. I saw Lord Treasurer there, who had been two hours with
the Queen; and Mrs. Masham is in hopes things will do well again. I went at night again, and
supped at Mr. Masham's, and Lord Treasurer sat with us till one o'clock. So 'tis late, etc.

27. I entertained our Society at the Thatched House Tavern to-day at dinner; but brother Bathurst
sent for wine, the house affording none. The printer had not received my letter, and so he
brought up dozens apiece of the Prophecy; but I ordered him to part with no more. 'Tis an admirable
good one, and people are mad for it. The frost still continues violently cold. Mrs. Masham
invited me to come to-night and play at cards; but our Society did not part till nine. But
I supped with Mrs. Hill, her sister, and there was Mrs. Masham and Lord Treasurer, and we stayed
till twelve. He is endeavouring to get a majority against next Wednesday, when the House of
Lords is to meet, and the Whigs intend to make some violent addresses against a peace, if not
prevented. God knows what will become of us.--It is still prodigiously cold; but so I told
you already. We have eggs on the spit, I wish they may not be addled. When I came home tonight
I found, forsooth, a letter from MD, N.24, 24, 24, 24; there, do you know the numbers now?
and at the same time one from Joe,(13) full of thanks: let him know I have received it, and
am glad of his success, but won't put him to the charge of a letter. I had a letter some time
ago from Mr. Warburton,(14) and I beg one of you will copy out what I shall tell you, and send
it by some opportunity to Warburton. 'Tis as follows: The Doctor has received Mr. Warburton's
letter, and desires he will let the Doctor know where(15) that accident he mentions is like
soon to happen, and he will do what he can in it.--And pray, madam, let them know that I do
this to save myself the trouble, and them the expense of a letter. And I think that this is
enough for one that comes home at twelve from a Lord Treasurer and Mrs. Masham. Oh, I could
tell you ten thousand things of our mad politics, upon what small circumstances great affairs
have turned. But I will go rest my busy head.

28. I was this morning with brother Bathurst to see the Duke of Ormond. We have given his Grace
some hopes to be one of our Society. The Secretary and I and Bathurst are to dine with him
on Sunday next. The Duke is not in much hopes, but has been very busy in endeavouring to bring
over some lords against next Wednesday. The Duchess caught me as I was going out; she is sadly
in fear about things, and blames me for not mending them by my credit with Lord Treasurer;
and I blame her. She met me in the street at noon, and engaged me to dine with her, which I
did; and we talked an hour after dinner in her closet. If we miscarry on Wednesday, I believe
it will be by some strange sort of neglect. They talk of making eight new lords by calling
up some peers' eldest sons; but they delay strangely. I saw Judge Coote(16) to-day at the Duke
of Ormond's: he desires to come and see me, to justify his principles.

29. Morning. This goes to-day. I will not answer yours, your 24th, till next, which shall begin
to-night, as usual. Lord Shelburne has sent to invite me to dinner, but I am engaged with Lewis
at Ned Southwell's. Lord Northampton and Lord Aylesbury's sons(17) are both made peers; but
we shall want more. I write this post to your Dean. I owe the Archbishop a letter this long
time. All people that come from Ireland complain of him, and scold me for protecting him. Pray,
Madam Dingley, let me know what Presto has received for this year, or whether anything is due
to him for last: I cannot look over your former letters now. As for Dingley's own account of
her exchequer money, I will give it on t'other side. Farewell, my own dearest MD, and love
Presto; and God ever bless dearest MD, etc. etc. I wish you many happy Christmases and new years.

I have owned to the Dean a letter I just had from you, but that I had not one this great while
before.

DINGLEY'S ACCOUNT

  Received of Mr. Tooke..                                 6 17 6
  Deducted for entering the letter of attorney.            0 2 6
  For the three half-crowns it used to cost you, I don't
  know why nor wherefore..                                 0 7 6
  For exchange to Ireland..                               0 10 0
  Forcoach-hire..                                          0 2 6
                                                        --------
                                    In all, just         8  0  0

So there's your money, and we are both even: for I'll pay you no more than that eight pounds
Irish, and pray be satisfied.

Churchwarden's accounts, boys.

Saturday night. I have broke open my letter, and tore it into the bargain, to let you know
that we are all safe: the Queen has made no less than twelve lords,(18) to have a majority;
nine new ones, the other three peers' sons; and has turned out the Duke of Somerset. She is
awaked at last, and so is Lord Treasurer: I want nothing now but to see the Duchess out. But
we shall do without her. We are all extremely happy. Give me joy, sirrahs. This is written
in a coffee-house. Three of the new lords are of our Society.

LETTER 38.

LONDON, Dec. 29, 1711.

I put my letter in this evening, after coming from dinner at Ned Southwell's, where I drank
very good Irish wine, and we are in great joy at this happy turn of affairs. The Queen has
been at last persuaded to her own interest and security, and I freely think she must have made
both herself and kingdom very unhappy, if she had done otherwise. It is still a mighty secret
that Masham is to be one of the new lords; they say he does not yet know it himself; but the
Queen is to surprise him with it. Mr. Secretary will be a lord at the end of the session; but
they want him still in Parliament. After all, it is a strange unhappy necessity of making so
many peers together; but the Queen has drawn it upon herself, by her confounded trimming and
moderation. Three, as I told you, are of our Society.

30. I writ the Dean and you a lie yesterday; for the Duke of Somerset is not yet turned out.
I was to-day at Court, and resolved to be very civil to the Whigs; but saw few there. When
I was in the bed-chamber talking to Lord Rochester, he went up to Lady Burlington,(1) who asked
him who I was; and Lady Sunderland and she whispered about me: I desired Lord Rochester to
tell Lady Sunderland I doubted she was not as much in love with me as I was with her; but he
would not deliver my message. The Duchess of Shrewsbury came running up to me, and clapped
her fan up to hide us from the company, and we gave one another joy of this change; but sighed
when we reflected on the Somerset family not being out. The Secretary and I, and brother Bathurst,
and Lord Windsor, dined with the Duke of Ormond. Bathurst and Windsor(2) are to be two of the
new lords. I desired my Lord Radnor's brother,(3) at Court to-day, to let my lord know I would
call on him at six, which I did, and was arguing with him three hours to bring him over to
us, and I spoke so closely that I believe he will be tractable; but he is a scoundrel, and
though I said I only talked for my love to him, I told a lie; for I did not care if he were
hanged: but everyone gained over is of consequence. The Duke of Marlborough was at Court today,
and nobody hardly took notice of him. Masham's being a lord begins to take wind: nothing at
Court can be kept a secret. Wednesday will be a great day: you shall know more.

31. Our frost is broken since yesterday, and it is very slabbery;(4) yet I walked to the City
and dined, and ordered some things with the printer. I have settled Dr. King in the Gazette;
it will be worth two hundred pounds a year to him. Our new lords' patents are passed: I don't
like the expedient, if we could have found any other. I see I have said this before. I hear
the Duke of Marlborough is turned out of all his employments: I shall know to-morrow when I
am to carry Dr. King to dine with the Secretary.--These are strong remedies; pray God the patient
is able to bear them. The last Ministry people are utterly desperate.

Jan. 1. Now I wish my dearest little MD many happy new years; yes, both Dingley and Stella,
ay and Presto too, many happy new years. I dined with the Secretary, and it is true that the
Duke of Marlborough is turned out of all. The Duke of Ormond has got his regiment of foot-guards,
I know not who has the rest. If the Ministry be not sure of a peace, I shall wonder at this
step, and do not approve it at best. The Queen and Lord Treasurer mortally hate the Duke of
Marlborough, and to that he owes his fall, more than to his other faults: unless he has been
tampering too far with his party, of which I have not heard any particulars; however it be,
the world abroad will blame us. I confess my belief that he has not one good quality in the
world beside that of a general, and even that I have heard denied by several great soldiers.
But we have had constant success in arms while he commanded. Opinion is a mighty matter in
war, and I doubt the French think it impossible to conquer an army that he leads, and our soldiers
think the same; and how far even this step may encourage the French to play tricks with us,
no man knows. I do not love to see personal resentment mix with public affairs.

2. This being the day the Lords meet, and the new peers to be introduced, I went to Westminster
to see the sight; but the crowd was too great in the house. So I only went into the robing-room,
to give my four brothers joy, and Sir Thomas Mansel,(5) and Lord Windsor; the other six I am
not acquainted with. It was apprehended the Whigs would have raised some difficulties, but
nothing happened. I went to see Lady Masham at noon, and wish her joy of her new honour, and
a happy new year. I found her very well pleased; for peerage will be some sort of protection
to her upon any turn of affairs. She engaged me to come at night, and sup with her and Lord
Treasurer: I went at nine, and she was not at home, so I would not stay.--No, no, I won't answer
your letter yet, young women. I dined with a friend in the neighbourhood. Yesterday I paid
seven good guineas to the fellow at the tavern where I treated the Society. I have a great
mind to send you the bill. I think I told you some articles. I have not heard whether anything
was done in the House of Lords after introducing the new ones. Ford has been sitting with me
till peeast tweeleve a clock.

3. This was our Society day: Lord Dupplin was President; we choose every week; the last President
treats and chooses his successor. I believe our dinner cost fifteen pounds beside wine. The
Secretary grew brisk, and would not let me go, nor Lord Lansdowne,(6) who would fain have gone
home to his lady, being newly married to Lady Mary Thynne. It was near one when we parted,
so you must think I cannot write much to-night. The adjourning of the House of Lords yesterday,
as the Queen desired, was just carried by the twelve new lords, and one more. Lord Radnor was
not there: I hope I have cured him. Did I tell you that I have brought Dr. King in to be Gazetteer?
It will be worth above two hundred pounds a year to him: I believe I told you so before, but
I am forgetful. Go, get you gone to ombre, and claret, and toasted oranges. I'll go sleep.

4. I cannot get rid of the leavings of my cold. I was in the City to-day, and dined with my
printer, and gave him a ballad made by several hands, I know not whom. I believe Lord Treasurer
had a finger in it; I added three stanzas; I suppose Dr. Arbuthnot had the greatest share.
I had been overseeing some other little prints, and a pamphlet made by one of my under-strappers.
Somerset is not out yet. I doubt not but you will have the Prophecy in Ireland, although it
is not published here, only printed copies given to friends. Tell me, do you understand it?
No, faith, not without help. Tell me what you stick at, and I'll explain. We turned out a member
of our Society yesterday for gross neglect and non-attendance. I writ to him by order to give
him notice of it. It is Tom Harley,(7) secretary to the Treasurer, and cousin-german to Lord
Treasurer. He is going to Hanover from the Queen. I am to give the Duke of Ormond notice of
his election as soon as I can see him.

5. I went this morning with a parishioner of mine, one Nuttal, who came over here for a legacy
of one hundred pounds, and a roguish lawyer had refused to pay him, and would not believe he
was the man. I writ to the lawyer a sharp letter, that I had taken Nuttal into my protection,
and was resolved to stand by him, and the next news was, that the lawyer desired I would meet
him, and attest he was the man, which I did, and his money was paid upon the spot. I then visited
Lord Treasurer, who is now right again, and all well, only that the Somerset family is not
out yet. I hate that; I don't like it, as the man said, by, etc. Then I went and visited poor
Will Congreve, who had a French fellow tampering with one of his eyes; he is almost blind of
both. I dined with some merchants in the City, but could not see Stratford, with whom I had
business. Presto, leave off your impertinence, and answer our letter, saith MD. Yes, yes, one
of these days, when I have nothing else to do. O, faith, this letter is a week written, and
not one side done yet. These ugly spots are not tobacco, but this is the last gilt sheet I
have of large paper, therefore hold your tongue. Nuttal was surprised when they gave him bits
of paper instead of money, but I made Ben Tooke put him in his geers:(8) he could not reckon
ten pounds, but was puzzled with the Irish way. Ben Tooke and my printer have desired me to
make them stationers to the Ordnance, of which Lord Rivers is Master, instead of the Duke of
Marlborough. It will be a hundred pounds a year apiece to them, if I can get it. I will try
to-morrow.

6. I went this morning to Earl Rivers, gave him joy of his new employment, and desired him
to prefer my printer and bookseller to be stationers to his office. He immediately granted
it me; but, like an old courtier, told me it was wholly on my account, but that he heard I
had intended to engage Mr. Secretary to speak to him, and desired I would engage him to do
so, but that, however, he did it only for my sake. This is a Court trick, to oblige as many
as you can at once. I read prayers to poor Mrs. Wesley, who is very much out of order, instead
of going to church; and then I went to Court, which I found very full, in expectation of seeing
Prince Eugene, who landed last night, and lies at Leicester House; he was not to see the Queen
till six this evening. I hope and believe he comes too late to do the Whigs any good. I refused
dining with the Secretary, and was like to lose my dinner, which was at a private acquaintance's.
I went at six to see the Prince at Court, but he was gone in to the Queen; and when he came
out, Mr. Secretary, who introduced him, walked so near him that he quite screened me from him
with his great periwig. I'll tell you a good passage: as Prince Eugene was going with Mr. Secretary
to Court, he told the Secretary that Hoffman, the Emperor's Resident, said to His Highness
that it was not proper to go to Court without a long wig, and his was a tied-up one: "Now,"
says the Prince, "I knew not what to do, for I never had a long periwig in my life; and I have
sent to all my valets and footmen, to see whether any of them have one, that I might borrow
it, but none of them has any."--Was not this spoken very greatly with some sort of contempt?
But the Secretary said it was a thing of no consequence, and only observed by gentlemen ushers.
I supped with Lord Masham, where Lord Treasurer and Mr. Secretary supped with us: the first
left us at twelve, but the rest did not part till two, yet I have written all this, because
it is fresh: and now I'll go sleep if I can; that is, I believe I shall, because I have drank
a little.

7. I was this morning to give the Duke of Ormond notice of the honour done him to make him
one of our Society, and to invite him on Thursday next to the Thatched House: he has accepted
it with the gratitude and humility such a preferment deserves, but cannot come till the next
meeting, because Prince Eugene is to dine with him that day, which I allowed for: a good excuse,
and will report accordingly. I dined with Lord Masham, and sat there till eight this evening,
and came home, because I was not very well, but a little griped; but now I am well again, I
will not go, at least but very seldom, to Lord Masham's suppers. Lord Treasurer is generally
there, and that tempts me, but late sitting up does not agree with me: there's the short and
the long, and I won't do it; so take your answer, dear little young women; and I have no more
to say to you to-night, because of the Archbishop, for I am going to write a long letter to
him, but not so politely as formerly: I won't trust him.

8. Well, then, come, let us see this letter; if I must answer it, I must. What's here now?
yes, faith, I lamented my birthday(9) two days after, and that's all: and you rhyme, Madam
Stella; were those verses made upon my birthday? faith, when I read them, I had them running
in my head all the day, and said them over a thousand times; they drank your health in all
their glasses, and wished, etc. I could not get them out of my head. What? no, I believe it
was not; what do I say upon the eighth of December? Compare, and see whether I say so. I am
glad of Mrs. Stoyte's recovery, heartily glad; your Dolly Manley's and Bishop of Cloyne's(10)
child I have no concern about: I am sorry in a civil way, that's all. Yes, yes, Sir George
St. George dead.(11)--Go, cry, Madam Dingley; I have written to the Dean. Raymond will be rich,
for he has the building itch. I wish all he has got may put him out of debt. Poh, I have fires
like lightning; they cost me twelvepence a week, beside small coal. I have got four new caps,
madam, very fine and convenient, with striped cambric, instead of muslin; so Patrick need not
mend them, but take the old ones. Stella snatched Dingley's word out of her pen; Presto a cold?
Why, all the world here is dead with them: I never had anything like it in my life; 'tis not
gone in five weeks. I hope Leigh is with you before this, and has brought your box. How do
you like the ivory rasp? Stella is angry; but I'll have a finer thing for her. Is not the apron
as good? I'm sure I shall never be paid it; so all's well again.--What? the quarrel with Sir
John Walter?(12) Why, we had not one word of quarrel; only he railed at me when I was gone:
and Lord Keeper and Treasurer teased me for a week. It was nuts to them; a serious thing with
a vengeance.--The Whigs may sell their estates then, or hang themselves, as they are disposed;
for a peace there will be. Lord Treasurer told me that Connolly(13) was going to Hanover. Your
Provost(14) is a coxcomb. Stella is a good girl for not being angry when I tell her of spelling;
I see none wrong in this. God Almighty be praised that your disorder lessens; it increases
my hopes mightily that they will go off. And have you been plagued with the fear of the plague?
never mind those reports; I have heard them five hundred times. Replevi? Replevin, simpleton,
'tis Dingley I mean; but it is a hard word, and so I'll excuse it. I stated Dingley's accounts
in my last. I forgot Catherine's sevenpenny dinner. I hope it was the beef-steaks; I'll call
and eat them in spring; but Goody Stoyte must give me coffee, or green tea, for I drink no
bohea. Well, ay, the pamphlet; but there are some additions to the fourth edition; the fifth
edition was of four thousand, in a smaller print, sold for sixpence. Yes, I had the twenty-pound
bill from Parvisol: and what then? Pray now eat the Laracor apples; I beg you not to keep them,
but tell me what they are. You have had Tooke's bill in my last. And so there now, your whole
letter is answered. I tell you what I do; I lay your letter before me, and take it in order,
and answer what is necessary; and so and so. Well, when I expected we were all undone, I designed
to retire for six months, and then steal over to Laracor; and I had in my mouth a thousand
times two lines of Shakespeare, where Cardinal Wolsey says,

     "A weak old man, battered with storms of state,
      Is come to lay his weary bones among you."(15)

I beg your pardon; I have cheated you all this margin, I did not perceive it; and I went on
wider and wider like Stella; awkward sluts; SHE WRITES SO SO, THERE:(16) that's as like as
two eggs a penny.--"A weak old man," now I am saying it, and shall till to-morrow.--The Duke
of Marlborough says there is nothing he now desires so much as to contrive some way how to
soften Dr. Swift. He is mistaken; for those things that have been hardest against him were
not written by me. Mr. Secretary told me this from a friend of the Duke's; and I'm sure now
he is down, I shall not trample on him; although I love him not, I dislike his being out.--Bernage
was to see me this morning, and gave some very indifferent excuses for not calling here so
long. I care not twopence. Prince Eugene did not dine with the Duke of Marlborough on Sunday,
but was last night at Lady Betty Germaine's assemblee, and a vast number of ladies to see him.
Mr. Lewis and I dined with a private friend. I was this morning to see the Duke of Ormond,
who appointed me to meet him at the Cockpit at one, but never came. I sat too some time with
the Duchess. We don't like things very well yet. I am come home early, and going to be busy.
I'll go write.

9. I could not go sleep last night till past two, and was waked before three by a noise of
people endeavouring to break open my window. For a while I would not stir, thinking it might
be my imagination; but hearing the noise continued, I rose and went to the window, and then
it ceased. I went to bed again, and heard it repeated more violently; then I rose and called
up the house, and got a candle: the rogues had lifted up the sash a yard; there are great sheds
before my windows, although my lodgings be a storey high; and if they get upon the sheds they
are almost even with my window. We observed their track, and panes of glass fresh broken. The
watchmen told us to-day they saw them, but could not catch them. They attacked others in the
neighbourhood about the same time, and actually robbed a house in Suffolk Street, which is
the next street but one to us. It is said they are seamen discharged from service. I went up
to call my man, and found his bed empty; it seems he often lies abroad. I challenged him this
morning as one of the robbers. He is a sad dog; and the minute I come to Ireland I will discard
him. I have this day got double iron bars to every window in my dining-room and bed-chamber;
and I hide my purse in my thread stocking between the bed's head and the wainscot. Lewis and
I dined with an old Scotch friend, who brought the Duke of Douglas(17) and three or four more
Scots upon us.

10. This was our Society day, you know; but the Duke of Ormond could not be with us, because
he dined with Prince Eugene. It cost me a guinea contribution to a poet, who had made a copy
of verses upon monkeys, applying the story to the Duke of Marlborough; the rest gave two guineas,
except the two physicians,(18) who followed my example. I don't like this custom: the next
time I will give nothing. I sat this evening at Lord Masham's with Lord Treasurer: I don't
like his countenance; nor I don't like the posture of things well.

     We cannot be stout,
     Till Somerset's out:

as the old saying is.

11. Mr. Lewis and I dined with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who eats the most elegantly
of any man I know in town. I walked lustily in the Park by moonshine till eight, to shake off
my dinner and wine; and then went to sup at Mr. Domville's with Ford, and stayed till twelve.
It is told me to-day as a great secret that the Duke of Somerset will be out soon, that the
thing is fixed; but what shall we do with the Duchess? They say the Duke will make her leave
the Queen out of spite, if he be out. It has stuck upon that fear a good while already. Well,
but Lewis gave me a letter from MD, N.25. O Lord, I did not expect one this fortnight, faith.
You are mighty good, that's certain: but I won't answer it, because this goes to-morrow, only
what you say of the printer being taken up; I value it not; all's safe there; nor do I fear
anything, unless the Ministry be changed: I hope that danger is over. However, I shall be in
Ireland before such a change; which could not be, I think, till the end of the session, if
the Whigs' designs had gone on.--Have not you an apron by Leigh, Madam Stella? have you all
I mentioned in a former letter?

12. Morning. This goes to-day as usual. I think of going into the City; but of that at night.
'Tis fine moderate weather these two or three days last. Farewell, etc. etc.

LETTER 39.

LONDON, Jan. 12,1711-12.

When I sealed up my letter this morning, I looked upon myself to be not worth a groat in the
world. Last night, after Mr. Ford and I left Domville, Ford desired me to go with him for a
minute upon earnest business, and then told me that both he and I were ruined; for he had trusted
Stratford with five hundred pounds for tickets for the lottery, and he had been with Stratford,
who confessed he had lost fifteen thousand pounds by Sir Stephen Evans,(1) who broke last week;
that he concluded Stratford must break too; that he could not get his tickets, but Stratford
made him several excuses, which seemed very blind ones, etc. And Stratford had near four hundred
pounds of mine, to buy me five hundred pounds in the South Sea Company. I came home reflecting
a little; nothing concerned me but MD. I called all my philosophy and religion up; and, I thank
God, it did not keep me awake beyond my usual time above a quarter of an hour. This morning
I sent for Tooke, whom I had employed to buy the stock of Stratford, and settle things with
him. He told me I was secure; for Stratford had transferred it to me in form in the South Sea
House, and he had accepted it for me, and all was done on stamped parchment. However, he would
be further informed; and at night sent me a note to confirm me. However, I am not yet secure;
and, besides, am in pain for Ford, whom I first brought acquainted with Stratford. I dined
in the City.

13. Domville and I dined with Ford to-day by appointment: the Lord Mansel told me at Court
to-day that I was engaged to him; but Stratford had promised Ford to meet him and me to-night
at Ford's lodgings. He did so; said he had hopes to save himself in his affair with Evans.
Ford asked him for his tickets: he said he would send them tomorrow; but looking in his pocket-book,
said he believed he had some of them about him, and gave him as many as came to two hundred
pounds, which rejoiced us much; besides, he talked so frankly, that we might think there is
no danger. I asked him, Was there any more to be settled between us in my affair? He said,
No; and answered my questions just as Tooke had got them from others; so I hope I am safe.
This has been a scurvy affair. I believe Stella would have half laughed at me, to see a suspicious
fellow like me overreached. I saw Prince Eugene to-day at Court: I don't think him an ugly-faced
fellow, but well enough, and a good shape.

14. The Parliament was to sit to-day, and met; but were adjourned by the Queen's directions
till Thursday. She designs to make some important speech then. She pretended illness; but I
believe they were not ready, and they expect some opposition: and the Scotch lords are angry,(2)
and must be pacified. I was this morning to invite the Duke of Ormond to our Society on Thursday,
where he is then to be introduced. He has appointed me at twelve to-morrow about some business:
I would fain have his help to impeach a certain lord; but I doubt we shall make nothing of
it. I intended to have dined with Lord Treasurer, but I was told he would be busy: so I dined
with Mrs. Van; and at night I sat with Lord Masham till one. Lord Treasurer was there, and
chid me for not dining with him: he was in very good humour. I brought home two flasks of burgundy
in my chair: I wish MD had them. You see it is very late; so I'll go to bed, and bid MD good night.

15. This morning I presented my printer and bookseller to Lord Rivers, to be stationers to
the Ordnance; stationers, that's the word; I did not write it plain at first. I believe it
will be worth three hundred pounds a year between them. This is the third employment I have
got for them. Rivers told them the Doctor commanded him, and he durst not refuse it. I would
have dined with Lord Treasurer to-day again, but Lord Mansel would not let me, and forced me
home with him. I was very deep with the Duke of Ormond to-day at the Cockpit, where we met
to be private; but I doubt I cannot do the mischief I intended. My friend Penn came there,
Will Penn the Quaker, at the head of his brethren, to thank the Duke for his kindness to their
people in Ireland. To see a dozen scoundrels with their hats on, and the Duke complimenting
with his off, was a good sight enough. I sat this evening with Sir William Robinson,(3) who
has mighty often invited me to a bottle of wine: and it is past twelve.

16. This being fast-day, Dr. Freind and I went into the City to dine late, like good fasters.
My printer and bookseller want me to hook in another employment for them in the Tower, because
it was enjoyed before by a stationer, although it be to serve the Ordnance with oil, tallow,
etc., and is worth four hundred pounds per annum more: I will try what I can do. They are resolved
to ask several other employments of the same nature to other offices; and I will then grease
fat sows, and see whether it be possible to satisfy them. Why am not I a stationer? The Parliament
sits to-morrow, and Walpole, late Secretary at War, is to be swinged for bribery, and the Queen
is to communicate something of great importance to the two Houses, at least they say so. But
I must think of answering your letter in a day or two.

17. I went this morning to the Duke of Ormond about some business, and he told me he could
not dine with us today, being to dine with Prince Eugene. Those of our Society of the House
of Commons could not be with us, the House sitting late on Walpole. I left them at nine, and
they were not come. We kept some dinner for them. I hope Walpole will be sent to the Tower,
and expelled the House; but this afternoon the members I spoke with in the Court of Requests
talked dubiously of it. It will be a leading card to maul the Duke of Marlborough for the same
crime, or at least to censure him. The Queen's message was only to give them notice of the
peace she is treating, and to desire they will make some law to prevent libels against the
Government; so farewell to Grub Street.

18. I heard to-day that the commoners of our Society did not leave the Parliament till eleven
at night, then went to those I left, and stayed till three in the morning. Walpole is expelled,
and sent to the Tower. I was this morning again with Lord Rivers, and have made him give the
other employment to my printer and bookseller; 'tis worth a great deal. I dined with my friend
Lewis privately, to talk over affairs. We want to have this Duke of Somerset out, and he apprehends
it will not be, but I hope better. They are going now at last to change the Commissioners of
the Customs; my friend Sir Matthew Dudley will be out, and three more, and Prior will be in.
I have made Ford copy out a small pamphlet, and sent it to the press, that I might not be known
for author; 'tis A Letter to the October Club,(4) if ever you heard of such a thing.--Methinks
this letter goes on but slowly for almost a week: I want some little conversation with MD,
and to know what they are doing just now. I am sick of politics. I have not dined with Lord
Treasurer these three weeks: he chides me, but I don't care: I don't.

19. I dined to-day with Lord Treasurer: this is his day of choice company, where they sometimes
admit me, but pretend to grumble. And to-day they met on some extraordinary business; the Keeper,
Steward, both Secretaries, Lord Rivers, and Lord Anglesea: I left them at seven, and came away,
and have been writing to the Bishop of Clogher. I forgot to know where to direct to him since
Sir George St. George's death,(5) but I have directed to the same house: you must tell me better,
for the letter is sent by the bellman. Don't write to me again till this is gone, I charge
you, for I won't answer two letters together. The Duke of Somerset is out, and was with his
yellow liveries at Parliament to-day. You know he had the same with the Queen, when he was
Master of the Horse: we hope the Duchess will follow, or that he will take her away in spite.
Lord Treasurer, I hope, has now saved his head. Has the Dean received my letter? ask him at
cards to-night.

20. There was a world of people to-day at Court to see Prince Eugene, but all bit, for he did
not come. I saw the Duchess of Somerset talking with the Duke of Buckingham; she looked a little
down, but was extremely courteous. The Queen has the gout, but is not in much pain. Must I
fill this line too?(6) well then, so let it be. The Duke of Beaufort(7) has a mighty mind to
come into our Society; shall we let him? I spoke to the Duke of Ormond about it, and he doubts
a little whether to let him in or no. They say the Duke of Somerset is advised by his friends
to let his wife stay with the Queen; I am sorry for it. I dined with the Secretary to-day,
with mixed company; I don't love it. Our Society does not meet till Friday, because Thursday
will be a busy day in the House of Commons, for then the Duke of Marlborough's bribery is to
be examined into about the pension paid him by those that furnished bread to the army.

21. I have been five times with the Duke of Ormond about a perfect trifle, and he forgets it:
I used him like a dog this morning for it. I was asked to-day by several in the Court of Requests
whether it was true that the author of the Examiner was taken up in an action of twenty thousand
pounds by the Duke of Marlborough?(8) I dined in the City, where my printer showed me a pamphlet,
called Advice to the October Club, which he said was sent him by an unknown hand: I commended
it mightily; he never suspected me; 'tis a twopenny pamphlet. I came home and got timely to
bed; but about eleven one of the Secretary's servants came to me to let me know that Lord Treasurer
would immediately speak to me at Lord Masham's upon earnest business, and that, if I was abed,
I should rise and come. I did so: Lord Treasurer was above with the Queen; and when he came
down he laughed, and said it was not he that sent for me: the business was of no great importance,
only to give me a paper, which might have been done to-morrow. I stayed with them till past
one, and then got to bed again. Pize(9) take their frolics. I thought to have answered your letter.

22. Dr. Gastrell was to see me this morning: he is an eminent divine, one of the canons of
Christ Church, and one I love very well: he said he was glad to find I was not with James Broad.
I asked what he meant. "Why," says he, "have you not seen the Grub Street paper, that says
Dr. Swift was taken up as author of the Examiner, on an action of twenty thousand pounds, and
was now at James Broad's?" who, I suppose, is some bailiff. I knew of this; but at the Court
of Requests twenty people told me they heard I had been taken up. Lord Lansdowne observed to
the Secretary and me that the Whigs spread three lies yesterday; that about me; and another,
that Maccartney, who was turned out last summer,(10) is again restored to his places in the
army; and the third, that Jack Hill's commission for Lieutenant of the Tower is stopped, and
that Cadogan is to continue. Lansdowne thinks they have some design by these reports; I cannot
guess it. Did I tell you that Sacheverell has desired mightily to come and see me? but I have
put it off: he has heard that I have spoken to the Secretary in behalf of a brother whom he
maintains, and who desires an employment.(11) T'other day at the Court of Requests Dr. Yalden(12)
saluted me by name: Sacheverell, who was just by, came up to me, and made me many acknowledgment
and compliments. Last night I desired Lord Treasurer to do something for that brother of Sacheverell's:
he said he never knew he had a brother, but thanked me for telling him, and immediately put
his name in his table-book.(13) I will let Sacheverell know this, that he may take his measures
accordingly, but he shall be none of my acquaintance. I dined to-day privately with the Secretary,
left him at six, paid a visit or two, and came home.

23. I dined again to-day with the Secretary, but could not despatch some business I had with
him, he has so much besides upon his hands at this juncture, and preparing against the great
business to-morrow, which we are top full of. The Minister's design is that the Duke of Marlborough
shall be censured as gently as possible, provided his friends will not make head to defend
him, but if they do, it may end in some severer votes. A gentleman, who was just now with him,
tells me he is much cast down, and fallen away; but he is positive, if he has but ten friends
in the House, that they shall defend him to the utmost, and endeavour to prevent the least
censure upon him, which I think cannot be, since the bribery is manifest. Sir Solomon Medina(14)
paid him six thousand pounds a year to have the employment of providing bread for the army,
and the Duke owns it in his letter to the Commissioners of Accounts. I was to-night at Lord
Masham's: Lord Dupplin took out my new little pamphlet, and the Secretary read a great deal
of it to Lord Treasurer: they all commended it to the skies, and so did I, and they began a
health to the author. But I doubt Lord Treasurer suspected; for he said, "This is Mr. Davenant's
style," which is his cant when he suspects me.(15) But I carried the matter very well. Lord
Treasurer put the pamphlet in his pocket to read at home. I'll answer your letter to-morrow.

24. The Secretary made me promise to dine with him today, after the Parliament was up: I said
I would come; but I dined at my usual time, knowing the House would sit late on this great
affair. I dined at a tavern with Mr. Domville and another gentleman; I have not done so before
these many months. At ten this evening I went to the Secretary, but he was not come home: I
sat with his lady till twelve, then came away; and he just came as I was gone, and he sent
to my lodgings, but I would not go back; and so I know not how things have passed, but hope
all is well; and I will tell you to-morrow day. It is late, etc.

25. The Secretary sent to me this morning to know whether we should dine together. I went to
him, and there I learned that the question went against the Duke of Marlborough, by a majority
of a hundred; so the Ministry is mighty well satisfied, and the Duke will now be able to do
no hurt. The Secretary and I, and Lord Masham, etc., dined with Lieutenant-General Withers,(16)
who is just going to look after the army in Flanders: the Secretary and I left them a little
after seven, and I am come home, and will now answer your letter, because this goes to-morrow:
let me see--The box at Chester; oh, burn that box, and hang that Sterne; I have desired one
to inquire for it who went toward Ireland last Monday, but I am in utter despair of it. No,
I was not splenetic; you see what plunges the Court has been at to set all right again. And
that Duchess is not out yet, and may one day cause more mischief. Somerset shows all about
a letter from the Queen, desiring him to let his wife continue with her. Is not that rare!
I find Dingley smelled a rat; because the Whigs are UPISH; but if ever I hear that word again,
I'll UPPISH you. I am glad you got your rasp safe and sound; does Stella like her apron? Your
critics about guarantees of succession are puppies; that's an answer to the objection. The
answerers here made the same objection, but it is wholly wrong. I am of your opinion that Lord
Marlborough is used too hardly: I have often scratched out passages from papers and pamphlets
sent me, before they were printed, because I thought them too severe. But he is certainly a
vile man, and has no sort of merit beside the military. The Examiners are good for little:
I would fain have hindered the severity of the two or three last, but could not. I will either
bring your papers over, or leave them with Tooke, for whose honesty I will engage. And I think
it is best not to venture them with me at sea. Stella is a prophet, by foretelling so very
positively that all would be well. Duke of Ormond speak against peace? No, simpleton, he is
one of the staunchest we have for the Ministry. Neither trouble yourself about the printer:
he appeared the first day of the term, and is to appear when summoned again; but nothing else
will come of it. Lord Chief-Justice(17) is cooled since this new settlement. No; I will not
split my journals in half; I will write but once a fortnight: but you may do as you will; which
is, read only half at once, and t'other half next week. So now your letter is answered. (P---
on these blots.) What must I say more? I will set out in March, if there be a fit of fine weather;
unless the Ministry desire me to stay till the end of the session, which may be a month longer;
but I believe they will not: for I suppose the peace will be made, and they will have no further
service for me. I must make my canal fine this summer, as fine as I can. I am afraid I shall
see great neglects among my quicksets. I hope the cherry-trees on the river walk are fine things
now. But no more of this.

26. I forgot to finish this letter this morning, and am come home so late I must give it to
the bellman; but I would have it go to-night, lest you should think there is anything in the
story of my being arrested in an action of twenty thousand pounds by Lord Marlborough, which
I hear is in Dyer's Letter,(18) and, consequently, I suppose, gone to Ireland. Farewell, dearest
MD, etc. etc.

LETTER 40.

LONDON, Jan. 26, 1711-12.

I have no gilt paper left of this size, so you must be content with plain. Our Society dined
together today, for it was put off, as I told you, upon Lord Marlborough's business on Thursday.
The Duke of Ormond dined with us to-day, the first time: we were thirteen at table; and Lord
Lansdowne came in after dinner, so that we wanted but three. The Secretary proposed the Duke
of Beaufort, who desires to be one of our Society; but I stopped it, because the Duke of Ormond
doubts a little about it; and he was gone before it was proposed. I left them at seven, and
sat this evening with poor Mrs. Wesley, who has been mightily ill to-day with a fainting fit;
she has often convulsions, too: she takes a mixture with asafoetida, which I have now in my
nose, and everything smells of it. I never smelt it before; 'tis abominable. We have eight
packets, they say, due from Ireland.

27. I could not see Prince Eugene at Court to-day, the crowd was so great. The Whigs contrive
to have a crowd always about him, and employ the rabble to give the word, when he sets out
from any place. When the Duchess of Hamilton came from the Queen after church, she whispered
me that she was going to pay me a visit. I went to Lady Oglethorpe's, the place appointed;
for ladies always visit me in third places; and she kept me till near four: she talks too much,
is a plaguy detractor, and I believe I shall not much like her. I was engaged to dine with
Lord Masham: they stayed as long as they could, yet had almost dined, and were going in anger
to pull down the brass peg for my hat, but Lady Masham saved it. At eight I went again to Lord
Masham's; Lord Treasurer is generally there at night: we sat up till almost two. Lord Treasurer
has engaged me to contrive some way to keep the Archbishop of York(1) from being seduced by
Lord Nottingham. I will do what I can in it to-morrow. 'Tis very late, so I must go sleep.

28. Poor Mrs. Manley, the author, is very ill of a dropsy and sore leg: the printer tells me
he is afraid she cannot live long. I am heartily sorry for her: she has very generous principles
for one of her sort, and a great deal of good sense and invention: she is about forty, very
homely, and very fat. Mrs. Van made me dine with her to-day. I was this morning with the Duke
of Ormond and the Prolocutor about what Lord Treasurer spoke to me yesterday; I know not what
will be the issue. There is but a slender majority in the House of Lords, and we want more.
We are sadly mortified at the news of the French taking the town in Brazil from the Portuguese.
The sixth edition of three thousand of the Conduct of the Allies is sold, and the printer talks
of a seventh: eleven thousand of them have been sold, which is a most prodigious run. The little
twopenny Letter of Advice to the October Club does not sell: I know not the reason, for it
is finely written, I assure you; and, like a true author, I grow fond of it, because it does
not sell: you know that it is usual to writers to condemn the judgment of the world: if I had
hinted it to be mine, everybody would have bought it, but it is a great secret.

29. I borrowed one or two idle books of Contes des Fees,(2) and have been reading them these
two days, although I have much business upon my hands. I loitered till one at home; then went
to Mr. Lewis at his office; and the Vice-Chamberlain told me that Lady Rialton(3) had yesterday
resigned her employment of lady of the bed-chamber, and that Lady Jane Hyde,(4) Lord Rochester's
daughter, a mighty pretty girl, is to succeed. He said, too, that Lady Sunderland would resign
in a day or two. I dined with Lewis, and then went to see Mrs. Wesley, who is better to-day.
But you must know that Mr. Lewis gave me two letters, one from the Bishop of Cloyne, with an
enclosed from Lord Inchiquin(5) to Lord Treasurer, which he desires I would deliver and recommend.
I am told that lord was much in with Lord Wharton, and I remember he was to have been one of
the Lords Justices by his recommendation; yet the Bishop recommends him as a great friend to
the Church, etc. I'll do what I think proper. T'other letter was from little saucy MD, N.26.
O Lord, never saw the like, under a cover, too, and by way of journal; we shall never have
done. Sirrahs, how durst you write so soon, sirrahs? I won't answer it yet.

30. I was this morning with the Secretary, who was sick, and out of humour: he would needs
drink champagne some days ago, on purpose to spite me, because I advised him against it, and
now he pays for it. Stella used to do such tricks formerly; he put me in mind of her. Lady
Sunderland has resigned her place too. It is Lady Catherine Hyde(6) that succeeds Lady Rialton,
and not Lady Jane. Lady Catherine is the late Earl of Rochester's daughter. I dined with the
Secretary, then visited his lady; and sat this evening with Lady Masham: the Secretary came
to us; but Lord Treasurer did not; he dined with the Master of the Rolls,(7) and stayed late
with him. Our Society does not meet till to-morrow se'nnight, because we think the Parliament
will be very busy to-morrow upon the state of the war, and the Secretary, who is to treat as
President, must be in the House. I fancy my talking of persons and things here must be very
tedious to you, because you know nothing of them, and I talk as if you did. You know Kevin's
Street, and Werburgh Street, and (what do you call the street where Mrs. Walls lives?) and
Ingoldsby,(8) and Higgins,(9) and Lord Santry;(10) but what care you for Lady Catherine Hyde?
Why do you say nothing of your health, sirrah? I hope it is well.

31. Trimnel, Bishop of Norwich,(11) who was with this Lord Sunderland at Moor Park in their
travels, preached yesterday before the House of Lords; and to-day the question was put to thank
him, and print his sermon; but passed against him; for it was a terrible Whig sermon. The Bill
to repeal the Act for naturalising Protestant foreigners passed the House of Lords to-day by
a majority of twenty, though the Scotch lords went out, and would vote neither way, in discontent
about the Duke of Hamilton's patent, if you know anything of it. A poem is come out to-day
inscribed to me, by way of a flirt;(12) for it is a Whiggish poem, and good for nothing. They
plagued me with it in the Court of Requests. I dined with Lord Treasurer at five alone, only
with one Dutchman. Prior is now a Commissioner of the Customs. I told you so before, I suppose.
When I came home to-night, I found a letter from Dr. Sacheverell, thanking me for recommending
his brother to Lord Treasurer and Mr. Secretary for a place. Lord Treasurer sent to him about
it: so good a solicitor was I, although I once hardly thought I should be a solicitor for Sacheverell.

Feb. 1. Has not your Dean of St. Patrick received my letter? you say nothing of it, although
I writ above a month ago. My printer has got the gout, and I was forced to go to him to-day,
and there I dined. It was a most delicious day: why don't you observe whether the same days
be fine with you? To-night, at six, Dr. Atterbury, and Prior, and I, and Dr. Freind, met at
Dr. Robert Freind's(13) house at Westminster, who is master of the school: there we sat till
one, and were good enough company. I here take leave to tell politic Dingley that the passage
in the Conduct of the Allies is so far from being blamable that the Secretary designs to insist
upon it in the House of Commons, when the Treaty of Barrier(14) is debated there, as it now
shortly will, for they have ordered it to be laid before them. The pamphlet of Advice to the
October Club begins now to sell; but I believe its fame will hardly reach Ireland: 'tis finely
written, I assure you. I long to answer your letter, but won't yet; you know, 'tis late, etc.

2. This ends Christmas,(15) and what care I? I have neither seen, nor felt, nor heard any Christmas
this year. I passed a lazy dull day. I was this morning with Lord Treasurer, to get some papers
from him, which he will remember as much as a cat, although it be his own business. It threatened
rain, but did not much; and Prior and I walked an hour in the Park, which quite put me out
of my measures. I dined with a friend hard by; and in the evening sat with Lord Masham till
twelve. Lord Treasurer did not come; this is an idle dining-day usually with him. We want to
hear from Holland how our peace goes on; for we are afraid of those scoundrels the Dutch, lest
they should play us tricks. Lord Mar,(16) a Scotch earl, was with us at Lord Masham's: I was
arguing with him about the stubbornness and folly of his countrymen; they are so angry about
the affair of the Duke of Hamilton, whom the Queen has made a duke of England, and the House
of Lords will not admit him. He swears he would vote for us, but dare not, because all Scotland
would detest him if he did: he should never be chosen again, nor be able to live there.

3. I was at Court to-day to look for a dinner, but did not like any that were offered me; and
I dined with Lord Mountjoy. The Queen has the gout in her knee, and was not at chapel. I hear
we have a Dutch mail, but I know not what news, although I was with the Secretary this morning.
He showed me a letter from the Hanover Envoy, Mr. Bothmar, complaining that the Barrier Treaty
is laid before the House of Commons; and desiring that no infringement may be made in the guarantee
of the succession; but the Secretary has written him a peppering answer. I fancy you understand
all this, and are able states-girls, since you have read the Conduct of the Allies. We are
all preparing against the Birthday; I think it is Wednesday next. If the Queen's gout increases,
it will spoil sport. Prince Eugene has two fine suits made against it; and the Queen is to
give him a sword worth four thousand pounds, the diamonds set transparent.

4. I was this morning soliciting at the House of Commons' door for Mr. Vesey, a son of the
Archbishop of Tuam,(17) who has petitioned for a Bill to relieve him in some difficulty about
his estate: I secured him above fifty members. I dined with Lady Masham. We have no packet
from Holland, as I was told yesterday: and this wind will hinder many people from appearing
at the Birthday, who expected clothes from Holland. I appointed to meet a gentleman at the
Secretary's to-night, and they both failed. The House of Commons have this day made many severe
votes about our being abused by our Allies. Those who spoke drew all their arguments from my
book, and their votes confirm all I writ; the Court had a majority of a hundred and fifty:
all agree that it was my book that spirited them to these resolutions; I long to see them in
print. My head has not been as well as I could wish it for some days past, but I have not had
any giddy fit, and I hope it will go over.

5. The Secretary turned me out of his room this morning, and showed me fifty guineas rolled
up, which he was going to give some French spy. I dined with four Irishmen at a tavern to-day:
I thought I had resolved against it before, but I broke it. I played at cards this evening
at Lady Masham's, but I only played for her while she was waiting; and I won her a pool, and
supped there. Lord Treasurer was with us, but went away before twelve. The ladies and lords
have all their clothes ready against to-morrow: I saw several mighty fine, and I hope there
will be a great appearance, in spite of that spiteful French fashion of the Whiggish ladies
not to come, which they have all resolved to a woman; and I hope it will more spirit the Queen
against them for ever.

6. I went to dine at Lord Masham's at three, and met all the company just coming out of Court;
a mighty crowd: they stayed long for their coaches: I had an opportunity of seeing several
lords and ladies of my acquaintance in their fineries. Lady Ashburnham(18) looked the best
in my eyes. They say the Court was never fuller nor finer. Lord Treasurer, his lady, and two
daughters and Mrs. Hill, dined with Lord and Lady Masham; the five ladies were monstrous fine.
The Queen gave Prince Eugene the diamond sword to-day; but nobody was by when she gave it except
my Lord Chamberlain. There was an entertainment of opera songs at night, and the Queen was
at all the entertainment, and is very well after it. I saw Lady Wharton,(19) as ugly as the
devil, coming out in the crowd all in an undress; she has been with the Marlborough daughters(20)
and Lady Bridgewater(21) in St. James's, looking out of the window all undressed to see the
sight. I do not hear that one Whig lady was there, except those of the bed-chamber. Nothing
has made so great a noise as one Kelson's chariot, that cost nine hundred and thirty pounds,
the finest was ever seen. The rabble huzzaed him as much as they did Prince Eugene. This is
Birthday chat.

7. Our Society met to-day: the Duke of Ormond was not with us; we have lessened our dinners,
which were grown so extravagant that Lord Treasurer and everybody else cried shame. I left
them at seven, visited for an hour, and then came home, like a good boy. The Queen is much
better after yesterday's exercise: her friends wish she would use a little more. I opposed
Lord Jersey's(22) election into our Society, and he is refused: I likewise opposed the Duke
of Beaufort; but I believe he will be chosen in spite of me: I don't much care; I shall not
be with them above two months; for I resolve to set out for Ireland the beginning of April
next (before I treat them again), and see my willows.

