THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 12, NO. 340.] SUPPLEMENTARY NUMBER. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

Vicenza.

SPIRIT OF THE "ANNUALS," FOR 1829.

For some days past our table has been glittering with these caskets of song and tale in their
gay attire of silken sheen and burnished gold--till their splendour has fairly put out the
light of our sinumbra, and the drabs, blues, and yellows of sober, business-like quartos and
octavos. Seven out of nine of these elegant little books are in "watered" silk bindings; and
an ingenious lady-friend has favoured us with the calculation that the silk used in covering
the presumed number sold (70,000) would extend five miles, or from Hyde Park Corner to Turnham
Green.

Brilliant as may be their exteriors, their contents are, as Miss Jane Porter says of her heroines,
"transcendently beautiful." But of these we shall present our readers with some exquisite specimens.
Our only trouble in this task is the embarras du richesses with which we are surrounded; otherwise
it is to us an exhaustless source of delight, especially when we consider the "gentle feelings
and affections" which this annual distribution will cherish, and the innumerable intertwinings
of hands and hearts which this shower of bon-bons will produce; and such warm friends are we
to this social scheme, that our presentation copies are already in the fair hands whither we
had destined them.

We begin with the parent-stock,

The Forget-Me-Not.

Edited by Frederic Shoberl, Esq.

The present volume, in its graphic and literary attractions is decidedly superior to that of
last year, an improvement which makes us credit what the Ettrick Shepherd says of the proprietor--"There's
no a mair just, nay, generous man in his dealings wi' his authors, in a' the tredd, than Mr.
Ackermann."

This beautiful Annual contains the original of our ENGRAVING, from a plate by A. Freebairn,
after an admirable picture by S. Prout, of which the following story is illustrative:--

THE MAGICIAN OF VICENZA.

In the year 1796, on one of the finest evenings of an Italian autumn, when the whole population
of the handsome city of Vicenza were pouring into the streets to enjoy the fresh air, that
comes so deliciously along the currents of its three rivers; when the Campo Marzo was crowded
with the opulent citizens and Venetian nobles; and the whole ascent, from the gates to the
Madonna who sits enthroned on the summit of Monte Berrico, was a line of the gayest pilgrims
that ever wandered up the vine-covered side of an Alpine hill; the ears of all were caught
by the sound of successive explosions from a boat running down the bright waters of the Bachiglione.
Vicenza was at peace, under the wing of the lion of St. Mark, but the French were lying round
the ramparts of Mantua. They had not yet moved on Venice; yet her troops were known to be without
arms, experience, or a general, and the sound of a cracker would have startled her whole dominions.

The boat itself was of a singular make; and the rapidity with which this little chaloupe, glittering
with gilding and hung with streamers, made its way along the sparkling stream, struck the observers
as something extraordinary. It flew by every thing on the river, yet no one was visible on
board. It had no sail up, no steersman, no rower; yet it plunged and rushed along with the
swiftness of a bird. The Vicentine populace are behind none of their brethren in superstition,
and at the sight of the flying chaloupe, the groups came running from the Campo Marzo. The
Monte Berrico was speedily left without a pilgrim, and the banks of the Bachiglione were, for
the first time since the creation, honoured with the presence of the Venetian authorities,
and even of the sublime podesta [the governor, a Venetian noble.] himself.

But it was fortunate for them that the flying phenomenon had reached the open space formed
by the conflux of the three rivers, before the crowd became excessive; for, just as it had
darted out from the narrow channel, lined on both sides with the whole thirty thousand old,
middle-aged, and young, men, maids, and matrons of the city, a thick smoke was seen rising
from its poop, its frame quivered, and, with a tremendous explosion, the chaloupe rose into
the air in ten thousand fragments of fire.

The multitude were seized with consternation; and the whole fell on their knees, from the sublime
podesta himself, to the humblest saffron-gatherer. Never was there such a mixture of devotion.
Never was there such a concert of exclamations, sighs, callings on the saints, and rattling
of beads. The whole concourse lay for some minutes with their very noses rubbing to the ground,
until they were all roused at once by a loud burst of laughter. Thirty thousand pair of eyes
were lifted up at the instant, and all fixed in astonishment on a human figure, seen calmly
sitting on the water, in the very track of the explosion, and still half hidden in the heavy
mass of smoke that curled in a huge globe over the remnants. The laugh had proceeded from him,
and the nearer he approached the multitude, the louder he laughed. At length, stopping in front
of the spot where the sublime podesta, a little ashamed of his prostration, was getting the
dust shaken out of his gold-embroidered robe of office, and bathing his burning visage in orange-flower
water, the stranger began a sort of complimentary song to the famous city of Vicenza.

The stranger found a willing audience; for his first stanza was in honour of the "most magnificent
city of Vicenza;" its "twenty palaces by the matchless Palladio;" much more "its sixty churches;"
and much more than all "its breed of Dominicans, unrivalled throughout the earth for the fervour
of their piety and the capacity of their stomachs." The last touch made the grand-prior of
the cathedral wince a little, but it was welcomed with a roar from the multitude. The song
proceeded; but if the prior had frowned at the first stanza, the podesta was doubly angry at
the second, which sneered at Venetian pomposity in incomparable style. But the prior and podesta
were equally outvoted, for the roar of the multitude was twice as loud as before. Then came
other touches on the cavalieri serventi, the ladies, the nuns, and the husbands, till every
class had its share: but the satire was so witty, that, keen as it was, the shouts of the people
silenced all disapprobation. He finished by a brilliant stanza, in which he said, that "having
been sent by Neptune from the depths of the ocean to visit the earth, he had chosen for his
landing-place its most renowned spot, the birthplace of the gayest men and the handsomest women--the
exquisite Vicenza." With these words he ascended from the shore, and was received with thunders
of applause.

His figure was tall and elegant. He wore a loose, scarlet cloak thrown over his fine limbs,
Greek sandals, and a cap like that of the Italian princes of three centuries before, a kind
of low circle of green and vermilion striped silk, clasped by a large rose of topaz. The men
universally said, that there was an atrocious expression in his countenance; but the women,
the true judges after all, said, without exception, that this was envy in the men, and that
the stranger was the most "delightful looking Diavolo" they had ever set eyes on.

The stranger, on his landing, desired to be led to the principal hotel; but he had not gone
a dozen steps from the water-side, when he exclaimed that he had lost his purse. Such an imputation
was never heard before in an Italian city; at least so swore the multitude; and the stranger
was on the point of falling several fathoms deep in his popularity. But he answered the murmur
by a laugh; and stopping in front of a beggar, who lay at the corner of an hospital roaring
out for alms, demanded the instant loan of fifty sequins. The beggar lifted up his hands and
eyes in speechless wonder, and then shook out his rags, which, whatever else they might show,
certainly showed no sequins, "The sequins, or death!" was the demand, in a tremendous voice.
The beggar fell on the ground convulsed, and from his withered hand, which every one had seen
empty the moment before, out flew fifty sequins, bright as if they had come that moment from
St. Mark's mint. The stranger took them from the ground, and, with a smile, flung them up in
a golden shower through the crowd. The shouts were immense, and the mob insisted on carrying
him to the door of his hotel.

But the Venetian vigilance was by this time a little awakened, and a patrol of the troops was
ordered to bring this singular stranger before the sublime podesta. The crowd instantly dropped
him at the sight of the bayonets, and knowing the value of life in the most delicious climate
of the world, took to their heels. The guard took possession of their prisoner, and were leading
him rather roughly to the governor's house, when he requested them to stop for a moment beside
a convent gate, that he might get a cup of wine. But the Dominicans would not give the satirist
of their illustrious order a cup of water.

"If you will not give me refreshment," exclaimed he, in an angry tone, "give me wherewithal
to buy it. I demand a hundred sequins."

The prior himself was at the window above his head; and the only answer was a sneer, which
was loyally echoed through every cloister.

"Let me have your bayonet for a moment," said the stranger to one of his guard. He received
it; and striking away a projecting stone in the wall, out rushed the hundred sequins. The prior
clasped his hands in agony, that so much money should have been so near, and yet have escaped
his pious purposes, The soldiers took off their caps for the discoverer, and bowed them still
lower when he threw every sequin of it into the shakos of those polite warriors. The officer,
to whom he had given a double share, showed his gratitude by a whisper, offering to assist
his escape for as much more. But the stranger declined the civility, and walked boldly into
the presence-chamber of the sublime podesta.

The Signer Dominico Castello-Grande Tremamondo was a little Venetian noble, descended in a
right line from Aeneas, with a palazzo on the Canale Regio of Venice, which he let for a coffee-house;
and living in the pomp and pride of a magnifico on something more than the wages of an English
groom. The intelligence of this extraordinary stranger's discoveries had flown like a spark
through a magazine, and the illustrissimo longed to be a partaker in the secret. He interrogated
the prisoner with official fierceness, but could obtain no other reply than the general declaration,
that he was a traveller come to see the captivations of Italy. In the course of the inquiry
the podesta dropped a significant hint about money.

"As to money," was the reply, "I seldom carry any about me; it is so likely to tempt rascals
to dip deeper in roguery. I have it whenever I choose to call for it."

"I should like to see the experiment made, merely for its curiosity," said the governor.

"You shall be obeyed," was the answer; "but I never ask for more than a sum for present expenses.
Here, you fellow!" said he, turning to one of the half-naked soldiery, "lend me five hundred
sequins!"

The whole guard burst into laughter. The sum would have been a severe demand on the military
chest of the army. The handsome stranger advanced to him, and, seizing his musket, said, loftily,
"Fellow, if you won't give the money, this must." He struck the butt-end of the musket thrice
upon the floor. At the third blow a burst of gold poured out, and sequins ran in every direction.
The soldiery and the officers of the court were in utter astonishment. All wondered, many began
to cross themselves, and several of the most celebrated swearers in the regiment dropped upon
their knees. But their devotions were not long, for the sublime podesta ordered the hall to
be cleared, and himself, the stranger, and the sequins, left alone.

For three days nothing more was heard of any of the three, and the Vicenzese scarcely ate,
drank, or slept, through anxiety to know what was become of the man in the scarlet cloak, and
cap striped green and vermilion. Jealousy, politics, and piety, at length put their heads together,
and, by the evening of the third day, the cavalieri had agreed that he was some rambling actor,
or Alpine thief, the statesmen, that he was a spy; and the Dominicans that he was Satan in
person. The women, partly through the contradiction natural to the lovely sex, and partly through
the novelty of not having the world in their own way, were silent; a phenomenon which the Italian
philosophers still consider the true wonder of the whole affair.

On the evening of the third day a new Venetian governor, with a stately cortege, was seen entering
at the Water Gate, full gallop, from Venice: he drove straight to the podesta's house, and,
after an audience, was provided with apartments in the town-house, one of the finest in Italy,
and looking out upon the Piazza Grande, in which are the two famous columns, one then surmounted
by the winged lion of St. Mark, as the other still is by a statue of the founder of our faith.

The night was furiously stormy, and the torrents of rain and perpetual roaring of the thunder
drove the people out of the streets. But between the tempest and curiosity not an eye was closed
that night in the city. Towards morning the tempest lulled, and in the intervals of the wind,
strange sounds were heard, like the rushing of horses and rattling of carriages. At length
the sounds grew so loud that curiosity could be restrained no longer, and the crowd gathered
towards the entrance of the Piazza. The night was dark beyond description, and the first knowledge
of the hazard that they were incurring was communicated to the shivering mob by the kicks of
several platoons of French soldiery, who let them pass within their lines, but prohibited escape.
The square was filled with cavalry, escorting wagons loaded with the archives, plate, and pictures,
of the government. The old podesta was seen entering a carriage, into which his very handsome
daughter, the betrothed of the proudest of the proud Venetian senators, was handed by the stranger.
The procession then moved, and last, and most surprising of all, the stranger, mounting a charger,
put himself at the head of the cavalry, and, making a profound adieu to the new governor, who
stood shivering at the window in care of a file of grenadiers, dashed forward on the road to Milan.

Day rose, and the multitude rushed out to see what was become of the city. Every thing was
as it had been, but the column of the lion: its famous emblem of the Venetian republic was
gone, wings and all. They exclaimed that the world had come to an end. But the wheel of fortune
is round, let politicians say what they will. In twelve months from that day the old podesta
was again sitting in the government-house--yet a podesta no more, but a French prefect; the
Signora Maria, his lovely daughter, was sitting beside him, with an infant, the image of her
own beauty, and beside her the stranger, no longer the man of magic in the scarlet cloak and
green and vermilion striped cap with a topaz clasp, but a French general of division, in blue
and silver, her husband, as handsome as ever, and, if not altogether a professed Diavolo, quite
as successful in finding money whenever he wanted it. His first entree into Vicenza had been
a little theatrical, for such is the genius of his country. The blowing-up of his little steam-boat,
which had nearly furnished his drama with a tragic catastrophe, added to its effect; and his
discovery of the sequins was managed by three of his countrymen. As an inquirer into the nakedness
of the land, he might have been shot as a spy. As half-charlatan and half-madman, he was sure
of national sympathy. During the three days of his stay the old podesta had found himself accessible
to reason, the podesta's daughter to the tender passion, and the treasures of the state to
the locomotive skill of the French detachment, that waited in the mountains the result of their
officer's diplomacy. The lion of St. Mark, having nothing else to do, probably disdained to
remain, and in the same night took wing from the column, to which he has never returned.

As we love to "march in good order," we begin with the plates, the most striking of which is
the Frontispiece, Marcus Curtius, by Le Keux, from a design by Martin, which we are at a loss
to describe. It requires a microscopic eye to fully appreciate all its beauties--yet the thousands
of figures and the architectural background, are so clear and intelligible as to make our optic
nerve sympathize with the labour of the artist. The next is a View on the Ganges, by Finden,
after Daniell; Constancy, by Portbury, after Stephanoff, in which the female figure is loveliness
personified; Eddystone during a Storm; the Proposal, a beautiful family group; the Cottage
Kitchen, by Romney, after Witherington; and the Blind Piper, from a painting by Clennell, who,
from too great anxiety in the pursuit of his profession, was some years since deprived of reason,
which he has never recovered.

In the poetical department we notice the Retreat, some beautiful lines by J. Montgomery; Ellen
Strathallan, a pathetic legend, by Mrs. Pickersgill; St. Mary of the Lows, by the Ettrick Shepherd;
Xerxes, a beautiful composition, by C. Swain, Esq.; the Banks of the Ganges, a descriptive
poem, by Capt. McNaghten; Lydford Bridge, a fearful incident, by the author of Dartmoor; Alice,
a tale of merrie England, by W.H. Harrison; and two pleasing pieces by the talented editor.
Our extract is

LANGSYNE.

BY DELTA.

Langsyne!--how doth the word come back
  With magic meaning to the heart,
As Memory roams the sunny track,
  From which Hope's dreams were loath to part!
No joy like by-past joy appears;
  For what is gone we peak and pine.
Were life spun out a thousand years,
  It could not match Langsyne!

Langsyne!--the days of childhood warm,
  When, tottering by a mother's knee,
Each sight and sound had power to charm,
  And hope was high, and thought was free.
Langsyne!--the merry schoolboy days--
  How sweetly then life's sun did shine!
Oh! for the glorious pranks and plays,
  The raptures of Langsyne!

Langsyne!--yes, In the sound, I hear
  The rustling of the summer grove,
And view those angel features near,
  Which first awoke the heart to love.
How sweet it is, in pensive mood,
  At windless midnight to recline,
And fill the mental solitude
  With spectres from Langsyne!

Langsyne!--ah, where are they who shared
  With us its pleasures bright and blithe?
Kindly with some hath fortune fared;
  And some have bowed beneath the scythe
Of death; while others, scattered far,
  O'er foreign lands at fate repine,
Oft wandering forth, 'neath twilight's star,
  To muse on dear Langsyne!

Langsyne!--the heart can never be
  Again so full of guileless truth--
Langsyne! the eyes no more shall see,
  Ah, no! the rainbow hopes of youth.
Langsyne! with thee resides a spell
  To raise the spirit, and refine
Farewell!--there can be no farewell
  To thee, loved, lost Langsyne!

Of the prose articles, we have already given some specimens--The Hour Too Many, a fortnight
since; and Vicenza, just quoted. The next we notice is Recollections of Pere la Chaise, for
the graphic accuracy of which we can answer; Eliza Carthago, an African anecdote, by Mrs. Bowditch;
Terence O'Flaherty, a humorous story, by the Modern Pythagorean of Blackwood; two interesting
stories of Modern Greece; a highly-wrought Persian Tale, by the late Henry Neele; Miss Mitford's
charming Cricketing Sketch; the Maid of the Beryl, by Mrs. Hofland; a Chapter of Eastern Apologues,
by the Ettrick Shepherd; the Goldsmith of Westcheap, a story of the olden time--rather too
long; and a characteristic Naval Sketch.

As we have already drawn somewhat freely on the present volume, we may adduce that as the best
proof of the high opinion we entertain of its merits. The editor has only two or three pieces;
but the excellent taste and judgment displayed in the editorship of the "Forget-me-not" entitle
it to a foremost place among the "Annuals for 1829."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Literary Souvenir,

Edited by Alaric A. Watts, Esq.

If the present were the first volume of the Literary Souvenir, the name of the editor would
be a passport to popularity; but as this is the fifth year of its publication, any recommendation
of ours would be supererogatory.

But the Souvenir for 1829, realizes that delightful union of painting, engraving, and literature,
(at whose beneficial influence we have glanced in our accompanying number) even more fully
than its predecessors. Ten out of the twelve embellishments are from celebrated pictures, and
the whole are by first-rate engravers. Of their cost we spoke cursorily in a recent number;
so that we shall only particularize a few of the most striking.

The engravings are of larger size than heretofore, and, for the most part, more brilliant in
design and execution than any previous year. We can only notice the Sisters, (frontispiece)
full of graceful and pleasing effect, by J.H. Robinson, after Stephanoff; Cleopatra, on the
Cydnus, a splendid aquatic pageant, by E. Goodall, after Danby; the Proposal, consisting of
two of the most striking figures in Leslie's exquisite painting of May Day in Queen Elizabeth's
time; a Portrait of Sir Walter Scott, from Leslie's painting, and considered the best likeness;
this is from the burin of an American artist of high promise. We must not, however, forget
Ehrenbreitstein, on the Rhine, by John Pye, from a drawing by J.M.W. Turner, which is one of
the most delightful prints in the whole series.

In the poetry are Cleopatra, well according with the splendid scene it is intended to illustrate--and
I think of Thee, a tender lament--both by Mr. T.K. Hervey; Mrs. Hemans has contributed four
exquisite pieces: Night, the Ship at Sea, and the Mariner's Grave, by Mr. John Malcolm, only
make us regret that we have not room for either in our columns; Mary Queen of Scots, by H.G.
Bell, Esq., is one of the most interesting historical ballads we have lately met with; the
Epistle from Abbotsford, is a piece of pleasantry, which would have formed an excellent pendent
to Sir Walter's Study, in our last; Zadig and Astarte, by Delta, are in the writer's most plaintive
strain; the recollections of our happiest years, are harmoniously told in "Boyhood;" a ballad
entitled "The Captive of Alhama," dated from Woburn Abbey, and signed R----, is a soul-stirring
production, attributed to Lord John Russel; and the Pixies of Devon has the masterly impress
of the author of Dartmoor. And last in our enumeration, though first in our liking, are the
following by the editor:--Invocation to the Echo of a Sea Shell; King Pedro's Revenge, with
a well written historiette; the Youngling of the Flock, full of tenderness and parental affection;
and some Stanzas, for our admiration of which we have not an epithet at hand, so we give the
original.

ON BURNING A PACKET OF LETTERS.

By A.A. Watts, Esq.

