"We worked from sunup till sunset wid a rest spell at 12 o'clock of two hours. He give us holidays
to rest in. Dat was Christmas, a week off den, den a day every month, an' all Sundays. He said
he wus a Christian an' he believed in givin' us a chance. Marster died of consumption. He give
us patches an' all dey made on it. He give slaves days off to work dere patches.

"I shore believes marster went to Heaven, but missus, well I don't know. Don' know 'bout her,
she wus so bad. She would hide her baby's cap an' tell me to find it. If I couldn't fin' it,
she whupped me. She would call marster, an' I doin' de best I could to please her, an' say
come here Jacob an' whup dis nigger, but marster paid no attention to her. He took our part.
Many wus de meals he give us unbeknown to his wife. Dere wus no mixin' white an' black on marster's
place, no sir, nothin' lak dat. He wus lak a father to us. Sometimes he brought hog haslets
an' good things to de nigger house an' tole us to cook it. When it wus done he come an' et
all he wanted, got up an' said, 'I'm goin' now,' an' you didn't see him no more till next day.

"We had prayer meetin' anytime an' we went to the white folks church. Dere wus no whiskey on
de place, no, no, honey, no whiskey. Now at corn shuckin's dey had a big supper an' all et
all dey wanted. I'll tell you Jake Sorrell wus all right. We didn't have any dances no time.
Some nights marster would come to our cabins, call us all into one of 'em an pray wid us. He
stood up in de floor an' tole us all to be good an pray. I saw him die. I saw him when de breath
went out of him. De last word he said wus, 'Lord do your will, not mine.' Den he breathed twice
an' wus no mo'.

"Missus died since de surrender, when she got sick she sent for me to go an' wait on her. I
went an' cleaned her lak a baby, waited on her till de evenin' she died dat night. I went off
dat evenin' late to spend de night an' next mornin' when I got dere she wus dead. I jist couldn't
refuse missus when she sent for me even if she had treated me bad.

"My grandmother wus as white as you is. She wus Lottie Sorrell. Marster bought my grandmother.
I do not know my grandfather's name. Grandmother wus a cook an' she tole me the reason she
was so white wus 'cause she stood over de fire so much. Ha, ha, dats what she tole me. She
had long straight hair. I 'members her well.

"Yes I 'members de Yankees. De Southern, our folks, wus in front. Dey come along a road right
by our house. Our folks wus goin' on an' de Yankees right behind. You could hear 'em shootin'.
Dey called it skirmishin'. It wus rainin' an our folks wus goin' through de mud an' slush.
Dey had wagins an' some would say, 'Drive up, drive up, Goddamn it, drive up, de damn Yankees
right behind us.' Dey had turkeys an' chickens' on de wagins an' on dere hosses. Dey got things
out of de houses an' took de stock. Dey searched de houses an' took de quilts an' sheets an'
things.

"De Yankees wus soon dere an' dey done de same thing. Dat wus a time. Dey took all dey could
find an' dere want much left when all got through. De Yankees poured out lasses an' stomped
down things dey could not carry off. I wus afraid of de Yankees. Dey come up an' said, 'Haint
you got some money round here?' I tole 'em I knowed nothin' about money. Dey called me auntie
an' said 'Auntie tell us whar de money is, you knows.' I says, 'Dey don't let me see everything
around here, no dat dey don't.'

"When dey tole us we wus free we stayed right on wid marster. We got crackers an' meat from
de Yankees an' when de crop wus housed in de fall marster give us part of all we made. We come
to Raleigh on a ole steer cart to git our crackers an' meat dat wus our 'Lowance. We stayed
at marster's till father died. I married there. We finally moved to the Page place 'bout eleven
miles north of Raleigh. We been farmin' wid de white folks eber since, till we got so we couldn't
work.

"I married Buck Sorrell since de surrender. We had four boys an' two girls, six children in
all. Dey are all dead, 'cept one, her name is Bettie. She works at Dr. Rogers'.

"Dr Young looked after us when we wus sick.

"Dere wus one thing dey wouldn't allow, dat wus books an' papers. I can't read an' write. I
heard talk of Abraham Lincoln comin' through when talk of de war come 'bout. Dey met, him an'
Jeff Davis, in South Carolina. Lincoln said, 'Jeff Davis, let dem niggers go free.' Jeff Davis
tole him you can't make us give up our property.' Den de war started.

"A lot of de niggers in slavery time wurked so hard dey said dey hated to see de sun rise in
de mornin'. Slavery wus a bad thing, 'cause some white folks didn't treat dere niggers right."

LE

N.C. District:  No. 2 Worker:         Mary Hicks No. Words:      320 Subject:        A SLAVERY
STORY Story Teller:   CHANEY SPELL Editor:         George L. Andrews

CHANEY SPELL

An interview with Chaney Spell, 101 years old, Contena Heights, Wilson, North Carolina.

"I really doan know who my first marster wus, case I has been sold an' hired so much since
den. I reckin dat I wus borned in New Hanover er Beaufort County an' I wus sold fust time in
my mammy's arms. We wus sold ter a man in Carteret County and from dar de speculators took
me ter Franklin County. I wus sold ter a Mr. McKee an' dat's de fust thing dat I 'members.

"I doan 'member anything 'bout maw 'cept dat dey called her Sal an' dat she died years an'
years ago. I reckin dat I once had a pappy, but I ain't neber seed him.

"Marster McKee wus mean to us, an' we ain't had nothin' to eat nor wear half of de time. We
wus beat fer ever' little thing. He owned I reckin two er three hundret slaves an' he had four
overseers. De overseers wus mean an' dey often beat slaves ter death.

"I worked in de house, sometime 'round de table, but I ain't got so much to eat.

"When word come dat we wus to be sold I wus glad as I could be. Dey tol' me dat de marster
has gambled away his money an' lost ever'thing but a few slaves. Later I learned dat he had
lost me to a Mr. Hartman in Nash County.

"Marse Sid Hartman wus good as he could be, sometimes his overseers wusn't but when he foun'
it out he let dem go. Marse Sid ain't got but one weakness an' dat am pretty yaller gals. He
just can't desist dem at all. Finally Mis' Mary found it out an' it pretty near broke her heart.
De ole marster, Marster Sid's daddy, said dat long as he could ride a hoss he could look out
fer de plantation so Marse Sid took Mis' Mary to de mountains.

"Soon atter dey went away de war broke an' ole marster wus right busy, not dat de slaves ain't
stuck to him but de Yankees won't let dem stick. When Marse Sid an' Mis' Mary come home de
war wus closin' an' dey has lost dere slaves. De slaves still loves 'em do' an' dey goes over
an' cleans house an' fixes fer de young folks.

"Atter de war I married Lugg Spell an' we had five chilluns. He's been dead dese many years
an' I'se worked, worked an' worked to raise de chilluns. I has been on charity a long time
now, a long time."

EH

N.C. District:   No. 2 Worker:          Mary Hicks No. Words:       432 Subject:         A
SLAVERY FAMILY Reference:       Tanner Spikes Editor:          George L. Andrews

[TR: Date stamp: AUG 4 1937]

A SLAVERY FAMILY

An interview with Tanner Spikes, 77 years of age, of 43 Bragg Street, Raleigh, North Carolina.

"My mammy had fifteen chilluns which wus all borned on Doctor Fab Haywood's plantation here
in Wake County. My mammy 'longed ter him, but my daddy 'longed ter a Mr. Wiggins in Pasquotank
County. I think that Dr. Haywood bought him just 'fore de war. Anyhow, we took de name of Wiggins.

"Mammy's name wus Lucinda an' pappy's name wus Osburn. I doan 'member seein' many Yankees on
Dr. Haywood's place. I doan reckon many comed dar. Anyhow, we had a gyard.

"I 'members a corn shuckin' what happened 'fore de war wus over, an' what a time dem niggers
did have. Dey kisses when dey fin' a red year an' atter dat dey pops some popcorn an' dey dances
ter de music of de banjo which Uncle Jed am a-playin'. Dey dances all night de best I can 'member.

"I seed a few Yankees, but dey wus just lookin' fer something ter eat. We ain't knowed nothin'
'bout freedom, but de Yankees tol' us dat we ort ter be free, dey also said dat we ort ter
have meat an' stuff in de smokehouse. My mammy sez dat dey ain't got good sense an' she tells
marse what dey said.

"De Yankees has done tuck all de rations so dar ain't nothin' lef' fer de niggers ter take
but mammy tells Marse Haywood what dey sez anyhow. Marse Haywood sez dat iffen he ketch any
niggers in his smokehouse dat he'll skin 'em alive. He also sez dat we ain't free an' dat we
ain't never gwine ter be free.

"De nex' year, atter de war, wus a hard year. We ain't had nothin' ter eat but hardtack an'
'lasses an' sometimes not half enough of dat. My pappy still farmed fer Marse Haywood, but
hit ain't as good as it is in slavery days.

"Seberal years atter dat, while we wus livin' on Davie Street, I met Frank Spikes an' I married
him. I can't tell yo' much 'bout our love-makin' case hit warn't much, but he always called
me 'honey gal' an' he axed me ter marry him in de kitchen while I was washin' dishes. He jist
puts his arms 'round me an' he sez, 'I wants ter marry yo', honey gal.'

"Well we gits married by de Baptist preacher in Raleigh fifty odd years ago an' we lives tergether
till dis past March, when he dies.

"Other boys comed ter see me but I ain't loved none of dem but Frank. He ain't never whupped
me but onct an' dat wus fer sassin' him, an' I reckin dat I needed dat.

"We had five chilluns an' I'se stayin' wid my daughter since he died, but I misses him, yes
mam, I misses him purty awful."

EH

N.C. District:       No. 2 Worker:              T. Pat Matthews No. Words:           817 Subject:
ANNIE STEPHENSON Person Interviewed:  Annie Stephenson Editor:              G.L. Andrews

[TR: Date stamp: AUG 6 1937]

ANNIE STEPHENSON 80 years old 1813 Rosewood Ave. Richmond, Va.

Now at 717 Saunder's Street Raleigh, N.C.

"I wus born in Hillsboro, N.C. I 'longed to Charles Holman and my missus wus named Rachel.
He owned a plantation near Hillsboro. It wus a mighty big plantation in Orange County, an'
he had a good many slaves on dat place. We had tolerable good food an' log cabins and clothes
dat you wove in de loom. Home-wove cloth. We had no feather bed. We did not know nuthin' 'bout
feather beds. Slaves like dat had bunks an' some slept on de floor. We went barefooted most
of the time. Slave shoes had wooden bottoms on 'em. Chilluns wus not give shoes at our place
till dey wus big enough to work.

"I 'member seein' de Yankees. Dey wore blue clothes an had brass buttons on 'em. De only work
I done wus to sweep yards an' nurse small chilluns. I done very little heavy work. My mother
wus named Nicy Oldman an' she worked in de field. My father wus named Billy Briggs, cause he
'longed to the Briggs family. I do not 'member seein' my father but one time. I never seen
a slave sold or whupped, but I heard tell of it. My mother tole me 'bout marster whuppin' so
severe. We had a rough boss. He had two colored foremen. Dey were slaves who 'longed to marster.

"Dere wus no patches allowed to any of the slaves, an' none of 'em had any money.

"We wus not allowed to have any prayer meetin's. Mother said she never knowed one on de plantation.

"Dere wus a lot of talk 'bout de patterollers but marster done his own sneakin' around. He
done a lot of eavesdroppin'. My mother said when dey tho't he wus asleep he wus awake. He wus
strict on his slaves an' I didn't know what church wus. No books of any kind wus allowed to
slaves an' I can't read an' write.

"They give two days Christmas. Mother said dat had always been marster's rule.

"I 'member de cornshuckin's. Dey lasted two or three days. Dere wus enough slaves to shuck
de corn. Dey had plenty of cider at corn shuckin's an' a lot better things to eat den at other
times. Marster made corn, peas, an' tobacco on de farm, mostly corn. Dey had plenty hogs an'
dat wus a time when dey killed 'em. Dryin' up de fat for lard, trimmin' an' saltin' de meat
an' chitlins. De hog guts wus called chitlins. Slaves wus allowed to eat meats as soon as de
hogs wus gutted. Dey wus allowed to boil some lean parts of de meat an' eat it at de killin's.

"We played base an' hide an' jumpin' when I wus a chile.

"When we got right smart an' sick we had a doctor. When we wus not mighty sick, we took tea
made of catnip, sassafras, an' roots.

"Yes, I 'member when dey tole us we wus free. Mother got up de chilluns to leave. She got just
a few clothes. I 'member seein' my uncle come to de house an' put up de horse. He put 'im in
de stable an' we all lef' together. We went to my uncle 'bout five miles away on his marster's
plantation. His marster wus named Harvey Roundtree. We stayed there three weeks, den we went
to a white man's place, Bill Gates. We stayed there several years. Mother had six chilluns.
Three wus boun' out for dere victuals an' clothes an' three wus with her.

"We come to Wake County when I wus fully grown. We come in a covered wagon. I saw father one
time to 'member him. He died before de war closed, an' mother never married again. We went
to Mr. Jeff Upchurch of Wake County an' worked on his farm. We stayed there ten or twelve years
an' I married while we wus there. I married Albert Stephenson. We stayed right on there about
six years after we married. We then went to Mr. Lonnie Stephen's place, the man who onct owned
my husband's father. We stayed there two years workin' as day hands, then we rented a farm
from Mr. Joe Smith. Dis wus de fust time any of us had ever farmed for ourselves. We kept it
up until old age made us unable to farm an' all de chilluns had got grown an' lef' us.

"We had thirteen chilluns, an' six is livin' yet. My husband died two years ago dis comin' August.

"Slavery from what I knows an' whats been tole me wus a mighty bad thing. Don' see how some
of de slaves stood it. I never did min' work but I is unable to work now. I has got a good
will but I is worn out. De only way I lives is by goin' 'round 'mong my people. I have no home
of my own." I was born in Wake County, North Carolina Dec. 11, 1853. My father was a slave,
A.H. Stewart, belonging to James Arch Stewart, a slave owner, whose plantation was in Wake
County near what is now the Harnett County line of Southern Wake. Tiresa was my mother's name.
James Arch Stewart, a preacher, raised my father, but my mother was raised by Lorenzo Franks,
a Quaker in Wake County. When I was two years old James Arch Stewart sold my father to speculators,
and he was shipped to Mississippi. I was too young to know my father.

"The names of the speculators were--Carter Harrison, and--, and a man named Roulhac. I never
saw my father again, but I heard from him the second year of the surrender, through his brother
and my aunt. My father died in Mississippi.

"The speculators bought up Negroes as a drover would buy up mules. They would get them together
by 'Negro drivers', as the white men employed by the speculators were called. Their names were,----Jim
Harris of Raleigh, and----yes, Dred Thomas, who lived near Holly Springs in Wake County. Wagon
trains carried the rations on the trip to Mississippi. The drivers would not start until they
had a large drove. Then the slaves were fastened together with chains. The chain was run between
them, when they had been lined up like soldiers in double file. A small chain was attached
to a Negro on the left and one to the Negro on the right and fastened to the main chain in
the center. Billy Askew was another speculator. He lived on the corner of Salisbury and Carbarrus
Street in Raleigh. Sometimes as many as thirty slaves were carried in a drove. They walked
to Mississippi.

"My brothers and sisters are dead. Down on the plantations our houses were built of poles daubed
with mud, with a rived board (split board). I had good beds, good clothes, and plenty to eat.
We made it and we ate it. When a slave owner treated his slaves unusually good some other slave
owner would tell him that he was raising slaves who would rise against him. Lorenzo Franks,
who owned me and my mother, was a Quaker. He treated his slaves unusually well. He would not
sell any of them. His brother was an Iron Side Baptist preacher, and he would tell his brother
he was raising slaves who would rise against him. Franks owned seventeen slaves, I don't know
how many Stewart owned."

[HW: m p. 6] [TR: Editor indicated three paragraphs on page 6 (page 322 of the volume) should
have been moved here.]

"I did farm work in slavery time. I earned no money except what we made on patches. These patches
were given to my mother by my master. We caught birds and game, sent it to town, and sold it
for money. We caught birds and partridges in traps. Our master would bring them to town, sell
them for us, and give us the money. We had a lot of possums and other game to eat. We got our
food out of the big garden planted for the whole shebang. My master overseered his plantation.

"We didn't think much of the poor white man. He was down on us. He was driven to it, by the
rich slave owner. The rich slave owner wouldn' let his Negroes sociate with poor white folks.
Some of the slave owners, when a poor white man's land joined theirs and they wanted his place
would have their Negroes steal things and carry them to the poor white man, and sell them to
him. Then the slave owner, knowing where the stuff was, (Of course the slave had to do what
his master told him.) would go and find his things at the poor white man's house. Then he would
claim it, and take out a writ for him, but he would give him a chance. He would tell him to
sell out to him, and leave, or take the consequences. That's the way some of the slave owners
got such large tracks of lands.

"The free Negro was a child by a white man and a colored woman, or a white woman and a Negro
slave. A child by a white man and a Negro woman was set free when the man got ready. Sometimes
he gave the free Negro slaves. Oscar Austin, an issue, was set free and given slaves by his
master and daddy. Old man Oscar Austin lived by the depot in Raleigh. He is dead now.

"When a child by a Negro man slave and a white woman arrived he could not be made a slave,
but he was bound out until he was 21 years old. The man, who ever wanted him, had him bound
to him by the courts and was his gardeen until he was 21 years old. He could not be made a
slave if he was born of a free woman. There were jails for slaves called dungeons; the windows
were small. Slaves were put into jail for misdemeanors until court was held, but a white man
could not be kept there over 30 days without giving bond. Whites and slaves were kept in the
same jail house, but in separate rooms.

"They never taught me to read and write; and most slaves who got any reading and writing certainly
stole it. There were rules against slaves having books. If the patterollers caught us with
books they would whip us. There were whipping posts on the plantation but patterollers tied
Negroes across fences to whip them. There was no church on the plantation. We had prayer meetings
in the cabins. We had big times at corn shuckings and dances. We all had plenty of apple and
peach brandy but very few got drunk. I never saw a nigger drunk until after the surrender.
We went to the white folks' church. We were partitioned off in the church.

"The patterollers visited our house every Saturday night, generally. We set traps to catch
the patterollers. The patterollers were poor white men. We stretched grape vines across the
roads, then we would run from them. They would follow, and get knocked off their horses. I
knew many of the patterollers. They are mostly dead. Their children, who are living now in
Wake County and Raleigh, are my best friends, and I will therefore not tell who they were.
I was caught by the patterollers in Raleigh.

"I would have been whipped to pieces if it hadn't been for a white boy about my age by the
name of Thomas Wilson. He told them I was his nigger, and they let me go. We had brought a
load of lightwood splints in bundles to town on a steer cart. This was near the close of the
war. We had sold out one load of splints had had been paid for them in Confederate money. We
had several bills. We went into a bar and bought a drink, each paying one dollar a drink, or
two dollars for two small drinks. The bar was in the house where the Globe Clothing Store is
now located on the corner of Wilmington and Exchange Streets. Just as I swallowed my drink
a constable grabbed me by the back of the neck, and started with me to the guard house, where
they done their whippin'. Down at the guard house Nick Denton, the bar tender, told Thomas
Wilson 'Go, tell the constable that is your nigger'. Thomas came running up crying, and told
the constable I was his nigger. The constable told him to take me and carry me on home or he
would whip both of us. We then hitched our ox to the cart and went home."

[TR: The editor indicated with lines that the following three paragraphs should be moved to
page 2 of this interview (page 318 of the volume).]

"When I was a child I played marbles, 'Hail over', and bandy, a game played like golf. In striking
the ball we knocked it at each other. Before we hit the ball we would cry, 'Shins, I cry',
then we would knock the ball at our playmates. Sometime we used rocks for balls.

"We got Christmas holidays from Christmas to New Years day. This was also a time when slaves
were hired out or sold. You were often put on the auction block at Christmas. There was a whipping
post, an auction block, and jail located on Court House Square where the news stand is now
located on Fayetteville Street. There was a well in the yard.

"We were treated by doctors when sick. We were given lots of herbs.

"I do not believe in ghosts.

"I did not feel much elated over hearing I was free, I was afraid of Yankee soldiers. Our mistress
told us we were free. I farmed first year after the war. We had no horses, the Yankees had
taken the horses, and some of us made a crap with grubbing hoes.

"I think Abraham Lincoln was a man who aimed to do good, but a man who never got to it. I cannot
say anymore than that his intentions were good, and if he had lived he would have done more
good." May 21, 1937.

"My mammy wuz a Free Issue an' my pappy belonged ter de Bells in Chatham County. Pappy wuz
named Edmund Bell, mammy wuz named Polly Mitchel. My sisters wuz Fanny, Jane, Ann, Josephine,
Narcissus, and Cressie. My brothers wuz Lizah, Hilliard an' another one, but I doan 'member
his name.

"Yo' knows dat I doan 'member much, but I does know dat days on de plantation wuz happy. When
my mammy married pappy she moved ter de Bell's plantation so we chilluns, long wid her, wuz
lak de udder slaves.

"De missus gib us her old hoop skirts ter play in an' we played nigh 'bout all de time. We
wuz doin' dis when de Yankees comed by. Dey drives dere hosses up ter de gate an' dey says
dat dey is lookin' fer Wheeler's Cavalry. We knows dat it done pass dar de day 'fore, but we
is too skeered ter say a thing.

"De Yankees stays 'round dar fer a little while, an' dey gathers rations, den dey goes on atter
Wheeler. De missus ain't carin' case we is bein' true ter de south she thinks. Shucks we doan
care nothin' 'bout Wheeler 'cept what we hyar, an dat ain't so good. We doan keer 'bout de
Yankees nother, case we is skeered of dem.

"I hyard grown folkses praisen' Lincoln but I doan know much 'bout him. I doan know nothin'
much 'bout none of it, but I does know dat it wuz on a Sunday dat de picket wuz lookin' fer
Wheeler an' dat we wuz playin' hide an' seek."

N.C. District:      No. 2 Worker:             Mary A. Hicks No. Words:          848 Subject:
WILLIAM SYKES Person Interviewed: William Sykes Editor:             Daisy Bailey Waitt

WILLIAM SYKES

Ex-Slave Story

An interview with William Sykes 78, of State prison, Raleigh, N.C.

"My mammy Martha an' me we 'longed ter Mister Joshua Long in Martin County, an' my paw, Henry
'longed ter Squire Ben Sykes in Tyrell County. Squire Sykes lived in what wus called Gum Neck,
an' he owned a hundert slaves or more an' a whole passel of lan'.

"I lived wid my mammy in Martin County from de fust dat I could 'member, me an' my brothers,
Henry, Benjamin an' Columbus, an' my sisters Hester, Margaret, Lucy an' Susan.

"I doan 'member so much what happen 'fore de war, of course, but I does 'member a heap of little
things. I knows dat Mister Long an' Mis' Catherine wus good ter us an' I 'members dat de food
an' de clothes wus good an' dat dar wus a heap o' fun on holidays.

"Most o' de holidays wus celebrated by eatin' candy, drinkin' wine an 'brandy. Dar wus a heap
o' dancin' ter de music of banjoes an' han' slappin'.

"We had co'n shuckin's, an' prayer meetin's, an' sociables an' singin's. I went swimmin' in
de crick, went wid ole Joe Brown, a-possum huntin', an' coon huntin', an' I sometimes went
a-fishin'.

"When de Yankees comed dey come a tearin'. Dey ain't done so bad in our neighborhood, case
hit warn't so full of de 'infernal Rebs', as de Yankees said. Dey tooked de bes' o' eber'thing
do' but dey ain't doin' so much deruction. Dey eben buyed terbacker from my mammy, an' dey
paid her a dollar an' fifty cents a pound, stim an' all.

"Dey paid her wid shin plasters, which wus green paper money, an' de fust dat eber I seed.

"We slaves wus skeerd o' de Yankees, an' fer some reason I got sent ter paw at Squire Sykes'
house in Tyrell County.

"Squire Sykes come stompin' in one day an' he says ter my paw, 'Henry, dem damm Yankees am
comin' ter take my niggers 'way from me, an' I ain't gwine ter stan' fer hit nother. Le's you
an' me take dese niggers an' march straight ter de Blue Ridge mountains, an' up dar in dem
mountains dar won't be no trouble, case dey won't dare come up dar atter us.'

"Wal, we got on de march fer de mountains an' we march on ter Judge Clayton Moore's grandfather's
place in Mitchell County, whar we camps fer seberal days.

"While we wus dar one day, an' while Mr. Jim Moore, de Jedge's daddy am in town de missus axes
my cousin Jane ter do de washin'.

"Jane says dat she has got ter do her own washin' an dat she'll wash fer de missus termorrer.
De missus says 'you ain't free yit, I wants you ter know.'

"'I knows dat I's not but I is gwine ter be free', Jane says.

"De missus ain't said a word den, but late Sadday night Mr. Jim he comes back from town an'
she tells him 'bout hit.

"Mr. Jim am some mad an' he takes Jane out on Sunday mornin' an' he beats her till de blood
runs down her back.

"De patterollers wus thick dem days, Mr. Joe Jones wus our regular patteroller an' he gibe
us de very debil.

"A few days atter Jane got her beatin' we marches away. De wimen am left at Jamesville but
us mens an' boys, we marches on ter Buncombe County an' we ain't seed no mo' Yankees.

"Atter de war my paw an' mammy went ter live on Mr. Moore's plantation an' we had a hard time.
A whole heap o' times I has had nothin' ter eat but one cupful o' peas an' a hunk of co'nbread
all day long. A white lady, Mis' Douglas give me a quart of milk eber Sunday, but I had ter
walk three miles fer hit.

"We ain't wucked none in slavery days ter what we done atter de war, an' I wisht dat de good
ole slave days wus back.

"Dar's one thing, we ole niggers wus raised right an' de young niggers ain't. Iffen I had my
say-so dey'd burn down de nigger schools, gibe dem pickanninies a good spankin' an' put 'em
in de patch ter wuck, ain't no nigger got no business wid no edgercation nohow.

"Yes'um, dey says dat I is a murderer". Uncle William stroked his long white beard. "I runned
from dis young nigger seberal times, an' I wus tryin' ter run wid my knife what I had been
whittlin' wid open in my han'. I wus skeerd nigh ter death, so when he grabs me I throw up
my han's an' in a minute he falls. I breshes de blood offen my coat, thinkin' dat he has hurt
me, an' I sees de blood pourin' from de jugular vein.

"I has sarved ten months o' my sentence which dey gived me, three ter five years fer manslaughter;
what could I do? I stood up an' I said, 'Thank you, Jedge.'"

L.E.

N.C. District:        No. 2 Worker:               Mary A. Hicks No. Words:            503 Subject:
ANNIE TATE Person Interviewed:   Annie Tate Editor:               Daisy Bailey Waitt

ANNIE TATE Ex-Slave Story

An interview with Annie Tate 73 of 624 S. Harrington Street, Raleigh, N.C.

"I wuz a year old when de war wuz ober but of course I ain't knowin' nothin' 'bout slavery
'cept what my mammy said, an' dat ain't so much.

"I reckon dat it wuz a brother of Calvin Jones dat my mammy belonged ter, anyhow, it wuz at
Wake Forest. My mammy wuz Rosa Jones till she married Phil Perry, my pappy.

"My mammy's mammy, who also belonged ter de Jones family killed herself 'cause dey sold her
husban'. Mammy said dat she wuz eight or ten years old at de time.

"Old marster wuz very fond of my grandpaw an' he wouldn't 'low de oberseer ter beat him, but
ole marster went off on a trip an' he left young marster in charge of de big farm an' de whole
slue o' slaves dat he owns.

"One day atter ole marster wuz gone de oberseer tried ter run de hawg over gran'paw an' wuz
cussin' him scan'lous. Gran'paw cussed back at him an' den de oberseer started ter beat him.
Gran'paw drawed de hoe back ober his haid an' tells him dat if'en he comes a step closter dat
he am gwine ter bust his haid open. De oberseer comes on an' de hoe 'cends on his haid choppin'
hit wide open.

"Ole marster ain't dar so young marster makes seberal of de slaves hold him while he lashes
him wid de cowhide. He cuts his back all ter pieces an' den he throws him in de barn, chained
down ter de flo'.

"Gran'mammy snuke out ter see him an' whisper ter him through de cracks, but one night she
goes out dar ter de barn an' he am gone. She runs ter young marster an' axes him whar am gran'paw
an' he tells her dat he am sold ter a man from Mississippi an' dat if'en she whimpers 'bout
him sellin' de black bastard dat he will whup her, den wash her down wid vinegar, red pepper
an' salt.

"Pore gran'maw am nigh 'bout crazy so she walks off'en de plantation. Down on de aidge of de
plantation runs de Neuse so gran'maw gits dar, an' jumps in.

"My mammy am little an' she ain't got no brothers an' sisters so de missus takes her in de
house wid her. Dey said dat de ole marster had a fit most when he fin's out 'bout what been
done dar while he am gone, so he am extra good ter mammy.

"At de surrender he calls his niggers in an' he says dat he will give 'em permission ter libe
on de riber plantation, dey can build deir shacks dar an' live dar durin' dere life time. Some
of dem does dis, an' fer seberal years dey stays on dar. Mammy said dat he tol' de Ku Kluxes
ter stay off'en his lan' too, dat he could manage his own niggers."

L.E.

N.C. District:     No. 2 Worker:            T. Pat Matthews No. Words:         1258 Subject:
R.S. TAYLOR Story teller:      R.S. Taylor Editor:            Daisy Bailey Waitt

R.S. TAYLOR 710 South McDowell Street

"My name is Ransom Sidney Taylor. I was borned in slavery the 5th day of January, 1857. Adam
Taylor was my father and Mary Taylor my mother. My brothers were: William H., Jesse, and Louis;
sisters: Virginia, Annie, and Isabella; all born in slavery. We all belonged to John Cane.
He owned a plantation on Ramkatte Road[5] near Yates Mill, between Yates Mill and Penny's Mill.
There was a whiskey still at Penny's Mill.

"There were sixty slaves in all, but Marster only kept seven on the plantation with him at
Yates Mill. Marster's sister Mary was our missus after he died. He died before the surrender.
The war was going on when he died. He was a Northern man. His sister came down to the funeral
from New York and then went back, then she came back to settle up the estate. She stayed here
a long time then. She told all the slaves they were free. That was about the close of the war.

"Marster John Cane was buried in the Catholic Graveyard in Raleigh. His wife had died in the
North, so my mother told me. We had plenty of something to eat, beans, peas, butter milk and
butter and molasses and plenty o' flour.[6] We made the wheat on the plantation and other things
to eat. We didn't have clothes like they have now but we had plenty o' good and warm wove clothes.
Our shoes had wooden bottoms, but were all right.

"We had prayer meetings on the plantation and at times we went to the white folks' church.
Marster was a Catholic, but we went to the Methodist Church[7], Edenton Street Methodist Church.
My marster would not allow anyone to whip his Negroes. If they were to be whipped he did it
himself and the licks he gave them would not hurt a flea. He was good to all of us and we all
loved him.

"We called our parents pappy and mammy most o' the time. My marster looked like you, jes' the
same complection and about your size. He weighed around 200 pounds had curly hair like yours
and was almost always smiling like you. My marster was an Irishman from the North. Mother and
father said he was one o' the best white men that ever lived. I remember seein' him settin'
on the porch in his large arm chair. He called me 'Lonnie', a nickname. He called me a lot
to brush off his shoes. I loved him he was so good.

"Our overseer was named John H. Whitelaw. He got killed at the Rock Quarry near the Federal
Cemetery when they were carrying a boiler to the Rock Quarry a long time after the surrender
about 14 or 15 years ago. He and John were standing on the side of the boiler and the boiler
turned over and killed both of 'em. Marster's overseer was bad to us after marster died. Nothing
we could do would suit him, and he whipped the Negroes. We never heard the word Negroes until
we moved to Raleigh after the surrender. They called us niggers and colored folks.

"We were darin' to have a book to study. It was against the Confederates' rules at dat time,
but marster called us in to have prayer meeting on Sunday mornings.

"I have seen patterollers. Dey had' em but not when my marster was living. Dey didn't come
around den, but when he died dey come around every night; we never knowed when dey was comin',
you know.

"I never saw a slave really whipped. Marster would switch a slave sometime, but it was a matter
o' nothing 'cause he didn't hurt much.

"We had good houses and plenty o' good places to sleep, and we fared fine in slavery time.
We called marster's house with its long porch the 'dwelling house'. When the Yankees came through
they told us we were free and we didn't have to work for the Johnnies no more.

"We got everything all right on the plantation near Yates Mill, then we moved to Raleigh.

"My mammy belonged to old Captain Hunter before she was married to pappy. When she got married
the Taylors bought her, and she and pappy stayed with the Taylors. As soon as we got the plantation
fixed up, we moved to Raleigh and mammy and pappy went back to her white folks, the Hunters.
My father was a carpenter by trade, and a preacher. He preached at St. Paul's Church on the
corner of Harrington and Edenton Streets. We lived in Raleigh all our lives except Annie. She
went to Brooklyn, New York and died there about four years ago.

"I thinned corn, and turned potato vines, and helped look after and feed the stock. Our marsters
gave us some money, five and ten cents at a time. That's the only way we got any money.

"We caught rabbits, hunting in the day time, and possums, hunting at night. We hunted on holidays.
We had holidays at lay-by time, and the 4th of July. When we caught up with the work we had
nothing to do. We got Christmas holidays.

"I never saw a slave sold and none never ran away. We went fishing in Swift Creek. I never
saw a jail for slaves and never saw any in chains. We played push and spin on the plantation.

"My mother looked after most of us when we were sick. She used roots, herbs, and grease, and
medicine the overseer got in town. When my mother got through rubbin' you, you would soon be well.

"When I first saw the Yankees I was afraid of 'em. It was a curiosity to see 'em comin' through
the fields with dem guns and things. They come down and talked with us and told us we were
free and then I was not so scared of 'em.

"I married Francis [HW: corrected to Frances] Lipton in 1885. We were married at the end of
McDowell Street at Mr. Chester's home. Just a quiet wedding with about 30 friends present.
I didn't think a thing about slavery while we fared mighty well; but it was bad on other plantations.

"I don't know anything about Booker T. Washington, nor Jefferson Davis, but I know Jim Young.
He was a Negro politician. I do not know much about Lincoln or Roosevelt.

"De[8] Yankees jes' shot hogs and cows and took everything on de plantation dey wanted. I can
see 'em now runnin' chickens. Dere was an old rooster, he said, 'Cluck, cluck, cluck cluck,'
as he run. Dey shot his head off and he turned somersets awhile, and rolled over dead. Jes'
seemed lak if dem Yankees pointed a gun at a chicken or hog dey would roll over dead. Dey had
live geese tied on their hosses. One ole gander would say, 'Quack, quack, quack,' as the hoss
stepped along and jarred him. Some o' de Yankee soldiers were carrying hams of hogs on deir
bayonets. Dat wus a time, Lawsy, Lawsy, a time. One ole hen, she had sense. When de Yankees
were killin' de res' o' de chickens she ran for de piney woods and hid dere and stayed till
de Yankees left Raleigh; den she come home. Mammy caught her and raised about forty chickens
off her in Raleigh." I was born in Chatham County on a plantation near Moncure, February 1853.

"My marster was named Baxter Thomas and missus was named Katie. She was his wife. I don't know
my father's name, but my mother was named Phillis Thomas.

"It took a smart nigger to know who his father was in slavery time. I just can remember my
mother. I was about four or five years old when she died.

"My marster's plantation was fust the 'Thomas Place'. There was about two hundred acres in
it with about one hundred acres cleared land. He had six slaves on it.

"When I was eight years old he bought the Boylan place about two miles from his first home
and he moved there. There was about one thousand acres of land of it all with about three hundred
acres cleared for farming. On the Thomas place his house had six rooms, on the Boylan place
the house had eight rooms. He brought in more slaves and took over all the slaves after John
Boylan died.

"John Boylan never married. He was a mighty hard man to git along with, an' Marster Baxter
Thomas was about the only one who could do anything with him when he had one of his mad spells.
They were no blood relation but marster got possession of his property when he died. It was
fixed that way.

"We called the slave houses 'quarters'. They were arranged like streets about two hundred yards
on the northside of the great house.

"Our food was purty good. Our white folks used slaves, especially the children, as they did
themselves about eatin'. We all had the same kind of food. All had plenty of clothes but only
one pair of shoes a year. People went barefooted a lot then more than they do now. We had good
places to sleep, straw mattresses and chickenfeather beds and feather bolsters. A bolster reached
clear across the head of the bed.

"We worked from sun to sun with one hour and a half to rest at noon or dinner time. I was so
small I did not do much heavy work. I chopped corn and cotton mostly. The old slaves had patches
they tended, and sold what they made and had the money it brought. Everybody eat out of the
big garden, both white and black alike. Ole missus wouldn't allow us to eat rabbits but she
let us catch and eat possums. Missus didn't have any use for a rabbit.

"Sometimes we caught fish with hooks in Haw River, Deep River, and the Cape Fear, and when
it was a dry time and the water got low we caught fish in seines.

"My marster only had two children, both boys, Fred, and John. John was about my age and Fred
was about two years older. They are both dead. My marster never had any overseers, he made
boss men out of his oldest slaves.

"We thought well of the poor white neighbors. We colored children took them as regular playmates.
Marster's boys played with 'em too and marster gave them all the work he could. He hired both
men an women of the poor white class to work on the plantation. We all worked together. We
had a good time. We worked and sang together and everybody seemed happy. In harvest time a
lot of help was hired and such laughing, working and singing. Just a good time in general.
We sang the songs 'Crossin' over Jordan' and 'Bound for the Promised Land'.

"I never saw a jail for slaves but I have seen slaves whipped. I saw Crayton Abernathy, a overseer,
whip a woman in the cotton patch on Doc. Smith's farm, a mile from our plantation. I also saw
ole man William Crump, a owner, whip a man and some children. He waited till Sunday morning
to whip his slaves. He would git ready to go to church, have his horse hitched up to the buggy
and then call his slaves out and whip them before he left for church. He generally whipped
about five children every Sunday morning. Willis Crump, a slave was tied up by his thumbs and
whipped. His thumbs was in such a bad fix after that they rose and had to be cut open. Willis
was whipped after the war closed for asking for his wages and having words with ole man Crump
because he would not pay him. They fell out and he called his friends in and they took and
tied him and whipped him.

"No books were allowed to slaves in slavery time. I never went to school a minute in my life.
I cannot read and write. We had prayermeetings on the plantation about once or twice a week.
We went to the white folks church on Sunday. We went to both the Methodist and Presbyterian.
The preacher told us to obey our marsters. I remember the baptizings. They baptized in Shattucks
Creek and Haw River. I saw a lot of colored folks baptized.

"I do not remember any slaves running away from our plantation but they ran away from ole man
Crump's and Richard Faucett's plantations near our plantation. Jacob Faucette ran away from
Faucette and Tom Crump ran away from ole man Crump. They ran away to keep from getting a whippin'.

"Colored folks are afraid of bears so one of the slaves who saw Tom Crump at night told him
he saw a bear in the woods where he was stayin'. Tom was so scared he came home next morning
and took his whippin'. Both came home on account of that bear business and both were whipped.

"When we got sick Dr. Hews, Dr. Wych and Dr. Tom Buckhannan looked after us. A lot of the slaves
wore rabbit feet, the front feet, for good luck. They also carried buckeyes.

"I remember the Yankees. I will remember seein' them till I die. I will never forgit it. I
thought it was the last of me. The white folks had told me the Yankees would kill me or carry
me off, so I thought when I saw them coming it was the last of me. I hid in the woods while
they were there. They tore up some things but they did not do much damage. They camped from
Holly Springs to Avant's Ferry on Cape Fear River. William Cross' plantation was about half
the distance. The camp was about thirty miles long. General Logan,[9] who was an old man, was
in charge.

"I married Martha Sears when I was 23 years old. I married in Raleigh. My wife died in 1912.
We had fourteen children, five are living now.

"When the war closed I stayed on eight years with my marster. I then went to the N.C. State
Hospital for the Insane. I stayed there 28 years. That's where I learned to talk like a white man."

LE

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 9: HW: Maj.-Gen. John A. Logan, Fifteenth Army Corps (Union.)]

N.C. District:  2 Worker:         Mary Hicks No. Words:      260 Subject:        MR. BELL'S
PLANTATION Reference:      Jacob Thomas Editor:         George L. Andrews

[TR: Date stamp: AUG 6 1937]

MR. BELL'S PLANTATION

An interview with Jacob Thomas, 97 years of age, of 1300 South Bloodworth Street, Raleigh,
North Carolina.

"I wus borned in Elberton County, Georgia, on de plantation of Marse Tom Bell. My mammy, Isobel,
uster live in North Carolina, but she wus sold from her husban' an' baby an' carried ter Marse
Tom's place in Georgia. Atter she got dar she wus married agin an' had me. Dat is I reckin
dat she wus married. I never did know my pappy.

"Mammy wus sold in Smithfield on de slave block an' carried off, chained 'hind a wagin. She
turn' roun' an' looks back at her husban' who cries an' de oberseer's lash cuts his back, 'case
dey ain't 'lowed ter cry at a sale.

"From de time I can fust 'member I wucked on de farm. We planted cane, cotton, corn, an' rice
in de low groun's. We ain't had ter wuck so powerful hard an' we am 'lowed a heap of pleasures,
but some of us boys wus mean an' we had ter be whupped, lak de time we tied tin cans on de
tail of Jinks, marster's fine huntin' dog. De dog near run hisself ter death an' Marse Tom
had us whupped fer hit.

"He raised fine hosses too, an' he ain't 'lowed us boys ter git clost ter dem, but one Sunday
when Uncle Amos went ter sleep in de shade of de trees roun' de pasture I gits on Lady, one
of de fines' young mares, an' I flies away on her.

"She ain't used ter nobody ridin' her bareback so she kicks up quite a rucus but I sets on.
Down cross de pasture she goes an' I enjoys hit fine till she steps in a hole an' falls.

"De mare am crippled but I leads her back an' tries ter git away widout anybody seein' me.
Ole Amos has woked up dis time an' of course he tells Marse Tom.

"Dat's de wust whuppin' I'se eber had, I'se tellin' yo'. Dey streaked me all ober den dey makes
me lay down, chained han' an' foot all de day long. Dat ain't done no good do 'case I rid dem
hosses eber'time I got de chance.

"I got married ter Pheobe de year dat de war begun. She wus a slim little brown-skinned gal
what look so puny dat yo' jist natu'ally wants ter take care of her. I ain't courted her fer
long 'case de marster gives his permission 'fore I axes fer hit. We is married 'fore de magistrate
in June 'fore de war begun.

"Near 'bout at de start of de war I wus took ter Atlanta ter he'p buil' de fort an' dar I stays
till de Yankees comes a-rippin' an' a-tarin'. Dey shoots de fort ter pieces an' den marches
in an' hangs up de ole Stars an' Stripes.

"We had four chilluns den Pheobe died an' lef' me. Atter dis I moves ter Star, South Carolina,
an' I marries Rebecca White who also died five years ago an' so I comed ter live wid Roberta.

"I doan know whether slavery am better er not. Most of de niggers claims dat all of de slaves
wus good, but I knows better. I done a heap of meanness. An' once atter I done so mean an'
got a whuppin' I runned away. Comes night an' I comes back home an' de nex' day I done somethin'
er other ter git another whuppin' fer.

"Dar's dis much we ain't worried 'bout livin' den lak we does now, an' dar's dis much fer bein'
free, I has got thirteen great-gran'chilluns an' I knows whar dey everyone am. In slavery times
dey'd have been on de block long time ago.

"I always thought a lot of Lincoln 'cause he had a heap of faith in de nigger ter think dat
he could live on nothin' at all."

"I wus borned an' raised on de plantation of Jake Thornton of Harnett County. My mammy, Lula,
my pappy, Frank, an' my brother an' sisters an' me all wus dere slaves. De man I finally marries,
Tom, am also a slave on de plantation.

"I wus jist five years ole when de Yankees come, jist a few of dem to our settlement. I doan
know de number of de slaves, but I does 'member dat dey herded us tergether an' make us sing
a heap of songs an' dance, den dey clap dere han's an' dey sez dat we is good. One black boy
won't dance, he sez, so dey puts him barefooted on a hot piece of tin an' believe me he did dance.

"I know dat my white folks hated de Yankees like pizen but dey had ter put up wid dere sass
jist de same. Dey also had to put up wid de stealin' of dere property what dey had made dere
slaves work an' make. De white folks didn't loose dere temper much do', an' dey avoids de Yankees.
Now when dey went protrudin' in de house dat am a different matter entirely.

"I wus brung up ter nurse an' I'se did my share of dat, too honey, let me tell you. I has nursed
'bout two thousand babies I reckins. I has nursed gran'maws an' den dere gran' chiles. I reckin
dat I has closed as many eyes as de nex' one.

"Atter de war we stayed on, case Marse wus good ter us an' 'cided dat we ain't got nowhar ter
go. I stayed on till I wus thirteen or fourteen an' den me an' Tom married. He had a job at
a sawmill near Dunn, so dar we went ter live in a new shanty.

"Tom never did want me ter work hard while he wus able ter work, but I nursed babies off an'
on all de time he lived. When he wus in his death sickness he uster cry case I had ter take
in washin'. Since he's daid I nurses mostly, but sometimes I ain't able ter do nothin'. I hopes
ter git my pension pretty soon an' dat'll help a heap when I'm laid up, not able ter turn my
han' at nothin'."

LE

N.C. District:        No. II
Worker:               Mrs. W.N. Harriss
Words:                550
Edited:               Mrs. W.N. Harriss
Subject:              Tillie, Daughter of a Slave
Interviewed:          Tillie, Caretaker,
                      Cornwallis Headquarters, corner
                      Third and Market Sts, Wilmington.

TILLIE, DAUGHTER OF A SLAVE

Caretaker, Cornwallis Headquarters Corner Third and Market Streets Wilmington, N.C.

"La, Miss Fannie, what you mean askin' me what I knows about slavery! Why I was bawn yeah's
after freedom!" With a sweeping, upward wave of a slender, shriveled brown arm to indicate
the wide lapse of time between her advent and the passing of those long ago days. The frail,
little body might have been any age between sixty and a hundred; but feminine vanity rose in
excited protest against the implication of age suggested by the question.

Tillie is one of the landmarks of Wilmington. She was one of the servants in the house of which
she is now caretaker, at the time of the owner's death, and the heirs have kept her on allowing
her to live in the old slave quarters in the back garden. She sits in the sun on the coping
of the brick wall, or across the street on the low wall of the grounds around St. James Church.
Children and their nurses gather there on the lawn, and Tillie holds forth at length on any
topic from religion and politics to the cutting or losing of teeth. She makes the bold statement
that she can tell you something about everybody in Wilmington. That is "eve'body we knows."
There is a general uneasiness that perhaps she can. Little escapes the large, keen, brown eyes,
and the ears are perpetually cocked.

After several conversations in passing, memory was coaxed to the time when as a very young
child she remembered incidents of slave times which she had heard from her mother.

"My mother belonged to the Bellamys, an' lived on their plantation across the river in Brunswick.
It was the bigges' place anywhere hereabouts. I was raised on it too. Of co'se it was in the
country, but it was so big we was a town all to ourselves.

"Did any of the colored people leave after freedom? Of co'se they did'n'. Were'nt no place
to go to. None of us was 'customed to anybody but rich folks, an' of co'se their money was
gone. I've heard Mis' Bellamy tell how her child'en made enough out of potatoes to buy their
clo'es right on that plantation. So we all stayed right there. My mother brought us all up
right there on the plot she'd been livin' on all the time. When I come along we had plenty
to eat. She had a whole pa'cel of us, and we always had plenty of collards, an' po'k an' corn
bread. Plenty of fish.

"O, yes, stuff was sold. I can remember timber bein' cut, an' our folks got some wages to buy
clo'es. We did'n have no school, but we had a church. Soon as I was big enough I came to Wilmin'ton
to work. I never has lived with none but [TR: duplicate "but" crossed out] the bes'. My mother
always said 'Tillie, always tie to the bes' white folks. Them that has inflooence, 'cause if
you gits into trouble they can git you out'. I've stuck to that. I've never had any traffic
wid any but the blue bloods, an' now look at me. I'm not able to work, but I got a home an'
plenty to eat. An' I ain't on no relief, an' Tillie can sho' hold her head up."

"Needham Price owned about fifty slaves, and mother an' I were among that number. He was a
very rich man, and owned a large plantation in Wake County, N.C., near the town of Knightdale.

"My father belonged to Tom Bodie way down in Edgecombe County, and mother and I went by the
name of Bodie. My father's given name was Haywood. Mother's name was Caroline. The fare was
bad in regard to food and clothing, but the slave quarters, though small and shanty-like in
appearance, were warm an' dry. The rules were strick and the privileges few. Mother was whipped
and scarred by the lash so bad the scars were on her when she died. I have seen them many times.

"There were no books of any kind allowed the slaves and no social gatherings tolerated. Slaves
were allowed to go to the white folks church and at times all slaves were carried to services
at the church. The preacher told them to obey their marsters and missuses, that the Bible said
obey.

"Marster lived in a large house with fourteen rooms, which the slaves called the big house.
He had four house servants to do his and missus bidding. They were 'specially trained as Marster
did a lot of entertaining in slavery time. Marster and missus had a lot of parties where they
served a lot of good food and various kinds of liquors to their guests. When marster was in
his cups he was mighty rough, and any of the slaves who displeased him at these times were
liable to get a beating.

"I have heard a lot of talk about ghosts and witches among the colored folks. I have seen a
few who had spells put on them by witches. My mother had a spell put on her and she lay in
bed talking to herself and sweating draps of sweat as big as the end of my finger. She would
groan and say, 'go away evil spirit, go away,' but the spell would not leave her until she
went to a white witch-doctor and got cured.

"After the surrender father came up from Edgecombe County and he and mother went and worked
with Mr. Ruth Dunn of Wake County. They stayed close, never going out of the county. Mother,
after a year of [HW: circle around "of"] two at Mr. Dunn's, began to think about goin' back
home. She was free and though her ole marster had treated her rough she loved the missus and
said she rather stay with marster Price than anyone else. Father went to see Mr. Price. He
told him to tell Caroline to come on back home and that he shure better bring her back. Mother
said when she got back home they all had a general good time cooking, eating, and laughing.
Marster tole her he never wanted her to leave him again. Mother said she was so full of gladness
she could not reply so she just stood there and cried. Marster walked off. Mother took charge
of the house and father jist about took possession of the farm. He looked after the stock,
all the farm tools, kept plenty of wood on the wood pile all the year roun'.

"Father and mother carried the keys and acted like the place belonged to them. They got most
of the slaves who were agreeable to come back. Marster gave them work and he loafed and prospered.
Because he trusted the Negroes so much they felt the responsibility put upon them, and they
worked for his interests.

"Mother and father stayed there until they died. I stayed with father and mother until I married
Badger Farrell then we stayed in a cabin on the plantation several years. Most of my life was
spent near Knightdale, Wake County, until my husband died fifteen years ago. I had eight children,
four girls and four boys. They are all dead except one, a boy, whom I have lived with in Raleigh
since my husband died.

"I think slavery was a bad thing. This story is the things my mother and father told me of
slavery and my own observations since I became old enough to remember the general happenings.
Mother said the place which had been a place of torture in slavery days turned out to be a
haven of rest after slavery, a home where peace, plenty and contentment reigned supreme."

LE

N.C. District:      No. 2 Worker:             T. Pat Matthews No. Words:          760 Subject:
HENRY JAMES TRENTHAM Person Interviewed: Henry James Trentham Editor:             G.L. Andrews

HENRY JAMES TRENTHAM Raleigh, N.C. Rt. 2 Age 92 years

"I wus born de second day of December 1845. Dat would make me 92 years of age. I wus born on
a plantation near Camden, S.C. I belonged to Dr. Trentham and my missus wus named Elizabeth.
My father wus named James Trentham and mother wus named Lorie. I had two brothers and one sister.
We all belonged to Dr. Trentham.

"Marster's plantation wus a awful big plantation with 'bout four hundred slaves on it. It wus
a short distance from the Wateree River. The slave houses looked like a small town and dere
wus grist mills for corn, cotton gin, shoe shops, tanning yards, and lots of looms for weavin'
cloth. Most of de slaves cooked at dere own houses, dat dey called shacks. Dey wus give a 'lowance
of rations every week. De rations wus tolerably good, jest bout like people eat now. Dere wus
a jail on de place for to put slaves in, an in de jail dere wus a place to put your hands in
called stocks. Slaves wus put dere for punishment.

"I seed lots of slaves whupped by de overseers. Marster had four overseers on de place an'
dey drove us from sunup till sunset. Some of de women plowed barefooted most all de time, an'
had to carry dat row an' keep up wid de men, an' den do dere cookin' at night.

"We hated to see de sun rise in slavery time cause it meant anudder hard day, but den we was
glad to see it go down.

"Marster lived in a large two story house wid 'bout twelve rooms in it. We called it de plantation
house. Dere wus a church on de plantation an' both white an' black went to preachin' dere.
Dere wus Sunday School dere too. De preacher tole us to obey our missus an' marster. He tole
us we must be obedient to 'em. Yes sir, dat's what he tole us. Some of de slaves run away.
When dey wus caught dey wus whupped and put in de stocks in de jail. Some of de slaves dat
run away never did come back. De overseers tole us dey got killed reason dey never come back.

"De patterollers come round ever now an' den an' if you wus off de plantation an' had no pass
dey tore you up wid de lash.

"Marster an' missus rode around in a carriage drawn by two horses and driven by a driver. Dey
had four women to work in de house as cooks, maids, an' de like.

"No huntin' wus allowed a slave if no white man wus wid 'im, an' dey wus not allowed to carry guns.

"De corn shuckin's was a great time. Marster give good licker to everybody den. When anybody
shucked a red ear he got a extra drink of whiskey. We had big suppers den an' a good time at
corn shuckin's. Atter de shuckin' at nite [HW: night] dere would be a wrastlin' match to see
who was bes' on de plantation. We got a week holliday at Xmas. Den wus de time shoes wus give
to de slaves, an' de good times generally lasted a week. At lay-by time wus another big time.
Dat wus 'bout de Fourth of July. Dey give a big dinner an' everbody et all de barbecue an'
cake dey wanted.

"I saw slaves sold at Camden. Marster carried some slaves dere an' put 'em on de auction block
an' sold 'em. I wus carried but I wus not sold. I went with the old doctor. I wus his pet.
Dey carried slaves away from de plantation in chains. Dey carried five or six at a time. If
a nigger didn't suit him he sold him.

"Missus didn't like for him to beat 'em so much no how. De old doctor had three boys, William,
Sidney and Henry and two girls, Missie and Carrie.

"Dey would not allow slaves no books an' I can't read an' write. I did not git any learnin.

"When a slave died dere wus only a few to go to de buryin. Dey didn't have time to go, dey
wus so busy workin'. De slaves wus burried in plain wood boxes which wus made by slave men
on de plantation. Our marster looked atter us when we got sick.

"I married Ella Davis 31 years ago in South Carolina, near Camden. We had twelve chilluns,
six boys and six girls.

"Slavery wus pretty rough and I am glad it is all over."

"I wusn't livin in Raleigh when my mother wus freed from slavery. We wus livin' in Nash County
right near the border of Wake County. We belonged to Shirley Brantly. Our missus wus named Penina.

"I wus born a slave, but I wus only 'bout two years old at de time of de surrender. I am 74
now. I wus born in April. I had my age in a Bible, but de book got tore to pieces an' my age
got lost.

"We lived on Marster Brantly's plantation an' de slave quarters wus near de great house. Mother
said she wurked in de fiel's from sun to sun. Dey did not eat breakfast in de mornin' fore
dey went to wurk. It wus cooked an' put on a shelf an' dey had breakfas' at about eleven o'clock
in de day. Mother said sometimes de flies got to de meat an' blowed it fore dey could come
in to eat it. Mother said de food wus bad an' not fixed right.

"Dere wus a lot of de slaves divided among marsters chillun. I can't remember how many.

"Marster wus a soldier an' when he come an' tole mother she wus free, Missus Penina tole her,
'No, you aint free, you'se got to stay here an' wurk right on.' Marster tole her if she had
been through wid what he been through wid she could give mother up as free as takin' a drink
of water.

"When de war ended father come an' got ma an' took her on to his marsters plantation. My father
wus named Carroll Privette an' my mother wus Cherry Brantly, but after she wus free she begun
to call herself by my fathers name, Privette. Father belonged to Jimmie Privette across Tar
River from whar ma lived. He lived near a little place named Cascade. We lived there at father's
marster's place till most of de chillun wus 'bout grown, den father bought a place in Franklin
County from Mr. Jack Griffin. He stayed there long enough to pay for de place; den he sold
it an' we moved to Clayton.

"At this time all de older chillun wus married, an' dats what dissatisfied my father. He had
nobody to help him wurk. Arch, Frank, an' Dennis wus married. Mary wus married. Two girls an'
one boy wus lef' single. Dere wus seben of de chillun. We moved from Clayton to Raleigh. I
wus married in Raleigh. I married William Upperman.

"Mother an' faather died in Raleigh. Mother died right here in dis house. My mother an' father
couldn't do no writin', but father could read a little. He could read hymns an' de Bible.

"I aint remember nothin' 'bout slavery 'ceptin' what I've heard 'em say. Some said dey had
a good time an' liked slavery. Dat wus when dey had good marsters. Den some says dey had a
hard time an' didn't like it. Dat wus when dey had bad marsters. Slavery wus good an' bad accordin'
to de kind of marster you had.

"My husban' died September 6, 1925. I am unable to wurk. I've had a stroke on one side. I'se
jest hangin' 'round home.

"My daughter wurks for de WPA an' supports me but now she has been laid off. My chillun, some
of 'em live in Harlem, New York, but dey has to have so much to live on dey can't help me.
Dey sends me a Christmas present most of de time, an' dey remembers me on mother's day sometime.

"I aint signed up wid any of de places to get money yet. Don't see what I is goin' to do. I
aint got 'nough money to pay bus fare to de registerin' place other side of town."

LE

N.C. District:      No. 2 Worker:             Mary A. Hicks No. Words:          901 Subject:
EX-SLAVE STORIES Person Interviewed: Ophelia Whitley Editor:             Daisy Bailey Waitt

EX-SLAVE STORIES

An Interview by Mary A. Hicks with Ophelia Whitley of Zebulon, (Wake Co.) N.C. May 12, 1937.

"I wuz borned at Wakefield in 1841, here in Wake County. My mammy wuz named Eliza an' my pappy
wuz named Thomas. Dar wuz eleben uv us chilluns, Frances, Sally Ann, Jane, Pattie, Louisa,
Alice, Firginia, Sam, Haywood, Boobie and me. We belonged to Mr. Agustus Foster an' he wuz
right good to us even do' he had a hundred or so other slaves.

"I 'members one whuppin' I got when I wuz little 'bout a big matter dat looked little at de
time. Mens would come by in kivered wagons, (we called dem speckled wagons) an' steal Marse
Gus' nigger chilluns. He had lost a heap of money dat way, so he forbids us of goin' out ter
de road an' he orders us ter stay 'way back in de rear uv de house. One day we sees a drove
uv dese wagons comin' an' we flies down ter de road. De marster ketches us an' I flies, but
he hobbles ter our cabin on his crutches an' he pinches me, pokes me wid de crutch an' slaps
my face.

"His son Billy wuz de overseer an' he wuz good ter git along wid, but he shore made dem darkies
wuck. De wimmen plowed an' grubbed, an' I'se known dem ter leave de field, go ter de house
an' find a baby an' be back at wuck de next day. Dat ain't happen often do', mostly dey done
light wuck fer a week or so. De babies wuz carried to Ant Hannah's house an' she raised 'em
all so's dat de other wimmen could wuck. De mammies ain't even 'member which wuz dere chilluns
half de time, so dar wuz no mo'nin' when somebody got sold.

"I 'members a slave sale an' hyarin' de marster tell Cindy an' Bruce ter act up fer de benefit
of de buyers. Cindy said dat she could do ever'thing, so she brung a good price, but Bruce,
atter sayin' dat he could do it all, wuz tole ter hitch up a hoss in a hurry. He got de hoss
an' turned his head ter de spatter board an' tried to hook de hoss up hind part befo'. De marster
can't find no buyer, so he whups Bruce awful atter he gits him home, but dat black boy says,
'Marse, Yo' can kill me, but I'd ruther stay on hyar.' I'se seed niggers in chains, but dey
wuz travelin', or wuz mighty bad niggers.

"We had log cabins to live in an' dey wuz comfortable but we ain't had much jubilees, de marster
not believin' in such things. We warn't teached nothin', not even religion an' we got whupped
if we wuz ketched wid a piece uv paper or a slate. De white folks warn't teached nothin' den,
an' you know dey won't gwine ter take no trouble wid de niggers. De niggers had a doctor do'
when dey got sick same as de white folks, an' dey got a lot of spring tonic an' such, made
out of barks an' roots.

"When de slaves got married dey done it dis way: de marster hilt a broom an' dey solemnly steps
over it twict den dey kissed an' dey wuz married, 'course dar wuz something dat de marster
said, but I done forgot whut it wuz.

"When we hyard dat de Yankees wuz comin' some of de niggers went fer de woods an' stayed till
atter de surrender, but most uv us stayed on an' wucked jist de same.

"My marstar made his own brandy an' whiskey an' when de Yankees come he wuz a rich man. His
smoke house wuz ful o' hams an' he hid 'em in de ceilin' of my mammy's shack, an' he buried
dem barrels of brandy, but de Yankees done found it all an' dey ain't left nothin'.

"I 'members how some of dem Yankee officers cussed in front of my mussus an' how I tole' em
dat dey mought be Yankees but dey won't half raised at dat.

"Atter de surrender my marster had ter make de slaves leave, but he moved my papy's cabin furder
an' we jist stayed on same as always till he died. I 'members moughty well when my mammy an'
papy got married case I seed it two years atter de surrender.

"Dar wuz two witches lived in our neighborhood. Dey wuz sisters named Miss Quinnie an' Miss
Tilda an' I'se seed dem brewin' coffee a many a time an' pourin' it out in a long neck goard.
Dey done a powerful lot of things which I can't recollect right dis minute, anyhow dey wuz witches.

"I uster see ghosts on dis very road nigh 'bout ever' night. Dey wuz white an' spongy lookin'
an' dey set under de bushes an' holler an' holler an' holler. I'se poured water on 'em many
a time but it ain't done no good.

"Do you know chile, slavery wuz a good thing, but folks has improved a lot since den, an' de
Yankees warn't half as good ter us as our ole marster an missus wuz, even if'n dey did put
a stop ter de Ku Klux Klan beatin' sorry niggers dat had ort ter be hung."

"I wuz borned on March 18th, 1856 durin' de biggest snow dat eber hit Eastern Carolina; dey
says dat hit wuz up ter de roof. De place whar I wuz borned wuz in Warren County; jist acrost
de Halifax County line. My mammy's marster wuz Mr. B. Osco Harris an' his wife wuz named Martha.

"My mammy's name wuz Alice an' my pappie's name wuz Camelin. I had three brothers, Little Berry,
Cornelius James, an' C.J. Dar wuz four gals, Anne, Pattie, Pennie, an' Mary Frances.

"De white folks wuz good ter us an' we loved 'em, but we wanted ter be free, case de Lawd done
make us all free.

"My missus wuz a religious woman an' I can't tell yo' de number uv times she has beat me case
I done some kind uv wuck on a Sunday. We went ter church ever Sunday an' we wusn't 'lowed ter
cuss an' sich things.

"I wuz nine when de war commence. Durin' de war an' I wuz workin' in de fiel', long wid de
fifty or sixty other slaves. Dar wuzn't nary a Yankee track made in our section, an' we ain't
knowed much 'bout de war.

"As I done tell yo' onct we wuz fed an' clothed good an' we lived fer each other, but my pappy
belonged ter one man an' my mammy ter another one an' so we wanted ter be all together. Atter
de war we stayed on till '69, den we come ter Raleigh. Most uv de wimmens an' chilluns wuz
sent by de train, but me an' pappy an' Berry, we walked all de way by Louisburg, an' driv'
pappy's thirteen heads of cattle.

"In 1871 we buyed ten acres uv lan' at Method fer three dollars a' acre an' moved out hyar.

"No mam, we ain't liked Jeff Davis, but we did like Mr. Lincoln. I 'members a verse uv a song
dat we sung durin' de first uv de war. It goes dis way.

    "'Jeff Davis is a rich man,
    Lincoln is a fool,
    Davis rides a big fat horse,
    Lincoln rides a mule.
    Knick knack dey say
    Walk ole Georgia row.'

"Dar wuz another song I 'members but I can't think uv no games, case we ain't neber played
none. Yo' has hyard dat atter a dog gits so full uv fleas he can't tote no mo'. Well, dat's
de way I is. I peddles my peanuts, but I barely makes a livin'.

"Hyar's de song do' de best I 'members it an' it wuz sung atter de war.

    "'Ole Confederate has done played out,
      Shrew ball, shrew ball,
    Ole Confederate has done played out
      Shrew ball say I,
    An' ole Gen'l. Lee can't fight no mo';
    We'll all drink stone blind
    Johnnies go marchin' home.

    "'I bought me a chicken fur fifty cents,
      Shrew ball, Shrew ball,
    I bought me a chicken fur fifty cents
      Shrew ball say I,
    I bought me a chicken fur fifty cents
    An' de son uv a bitch done jump de fence,
    We'll all drink stone blind
    Johnnies go marchin' home.

N.C. District:      No. 2 Worker:             T. Pat Matthews No. Words:          723 Subject:
CATHARINE WILLIAMS Person Interviewed: Catherine Williams Editor:             Daisy Bailey Waitt

CATHARINE WILLIAMS 2214 Barker Street

"My name is Catharine Williams. I was born December twenty fifth, 1851. I remember my mother,
but I do not know anything about my father. My mother's name was Adeline Williams. Mother baked
ash cakes, but my children would not eat 'em. She died fifty years ago. I had four children
when she died, but I had three boys and two girls. I was born in Virginia but I cannot tell
what part. I was four years old when my mother brought me to North Carolina. Our old master,
Dabney Cosby,[10] moved from Virginia to North Carolina then. We came straight into Raleigh,
North Carolina and have been living in Raleigh ever since.

"We were Williams when owned by Cosby and we were never sold again, but remained in the same
family till we were set free after the surrender. We had good food, fair clothing and comfortable
sleeping places. I know what a pallet is. All slep' on 'em a lot in slavery days, especially
when it was hot weather. I makes 'em now sometimes.

"My missus wus named Fannie. I do not know how many slaves they owned, but Marster did not
have a plantation, he lived in town. He was a brick mason, and he made brick. He had two brick
kilns.

"Our missus and marster were kind to us but they did not teach us to read and write. I learned
to read and write since the surrender. I went to church and Sunday school. There were no Negro
preachers, but we attended the white folks's church. We did not have any prayer meetings because
our homes were in the white folks's yard.

"I was never whupped, and mother and myself were well treated, so I have no complaint to make
against our white folks.

"The first work I done was nursing the children in the home, next I waited on the table, then
general house [HW: work].

"At the last days of the war Wheeler's Calvary camped around my house at night. They tole us
the Yankees would be in Raleigh the next morning and shore 'nough they came in next morning.
If the citizens had not gone out and surrendered Raleigh to the Yankees they would have torn
Raleigh to pieces. We were living on the corner of Hargett and Dawson Streets. The Yankees
done us no harm. They done all right in Raleigh. They did not take nothing around home. They
put out guards around the homes by the time they got in. We were not afraid of 'em, none of
us children, neither white nor colored; they played such purty music and was dressed so fine.
We run after the band to hear 'em play.

"I heard talk of the patterollers, but never saw any. I knew very little about the jail in
Raleigh for slaves. I never saw any slaves sold or any in chains. I never knew of any slaves
running away to the North. We children both white and colored enjoyed the Christmas holidays
together. We played running and jumping and hide and seek.

"We had doctors when we got sick. Dr. Johnson was one of them. After the war we stayed on with
Marster and Missus until they died. I have been on Oberlin Road about twenty-five years.

"No Sir, what you talkin' 'bout? No, there were no Negro schools in Raleigh at the time of
the surrender, but I have had a good time all my life as far as bein' treated right is concerned.

"I have never married. I will have to find that man yet, and at this age I don't expect to
find him. Ha! ha! never found that man yet. I am staying with my niece.

"I know nothing about Abraham Lincoln. He helped us to be free. I knew nothing about Jefferson
Davis, Booker T. Washington or Roosevelt. I know very little about Jim Young, only he was a
polititian."

LE

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 10: Dabney Cosby, a practical architect and contractor, came to Raleigh from Halifax
County, Virginia, and did a good deal of building in the city between 1850 and 1860. The original
Yarborough House (1852) was built by him. The Heart house, corner Hargett and Dawson Streets,
Cosby's home, and another stucco house, corner Hargett and Harrington Streets are still standing
in the locality mentioned in the story.]

N.C. District:      No. 2 Worker:             T. Pat Matthews No. Words:          755 Subject:
REV. HANDY WILLIAMS Person Interviewed: Rev. Handy Williams Editor:             Daisy Bailey Waitt

REV. HANDY WILLIAMS Dunn, North Carolina.

"My name is Handy H. Williams. When de war went up I wus twelve years old, 12th of March. I
belonged to Blaney Williams, and his wife wus named Polly. My mother wus named Margaret Williams,
and my father wus named Sam Williams. I do not remember my grandmother and grandfather; can't
remember 'em.

"My father lived in Greene County. De plantation wus in Greene County. Dere were about 190
acres in de farm and dere wus about 25 slaves on it.

"We lived in Greene County till the war went up. We had plenty to eat, good clothes and a nice
place to sleep. Marster wus not good to us, but he gave us plenty to eat and wear. He worked
us from light till dark and then my mother had to do house work after workin' in de fields
all day, an' father had to do de feedin' or pick cotton at night.

"We had no holidays. Prayer meetings were not allowed in de quarters and a slave darsent to
be caught wid a book in his han'.

"De patterollers come by often an' dey caught and whupped de slaves many times. Marster whupped
slaves for mos' anything. Sometimes he would get mad, an' whup us when he hardly had an excuse.
Yes sir, he would get drunk and whup somebody jest 'cause he was mad. Some of de slaves run
away. My Uncle Needham Williams run away. When he come back he wus whupped an' then put up
and sold. Aunt Chaney, my mother's sister, wus put up and sold. She wus sold away from her
children. When de war went up, she come back home. My Aunt Beadie wus sold on de block in Fayetteville.
I remember her well, but we have never heard from her since. She never come back after the
surrender. God only knows what become o' her.

"When de war went up we went to Harnett County to Mr. Jim Surles' place, about three miles
from whur this town now stands. Dunn wus not here then.

"We stayed there five years, and then moved to Mingo in what is now Sampson County on the Louis
Martin Tew Place, and my father bought a place. The deed called for 199 acres more or less.
Dat's what de deed called for. We paid for de place, but my father mortgaged de place. He didn't
lose it, cause it wus fixed so dat no one could sell or mortgage it while any of de heirs wus
livin'. All are dead 'cept Pink Williams and myself, and de lan' fell back to us. Mammy and
daddy are both dead long time ago, 'bout twenty-five years.

"Dey had overseers on marster's farm in Greene County and dey were mean to de slaves. I wus
not big enough to work much, but dey had me feedin' stock and helpin' around de house.

"We children didn't play any games we wus afraid to play around de white folks. Marster wus
a rip snorter and he would get you if you got in his way. He lived in de great house not far
distant from de quarters, but we did not go dere unless we had to go dere to work.

"Yes sir, you know how children is when dey hear wagins coomin', and a big crowd marchin' together.
Yes sir, I remember de Yankees. Dey rode dere horses against de fences and tore em down. Dey
comed in de yard and turned over de bee gums. Dey shot de chickens. Dey would say 'Dere he
goes, shoot him, shoot him', and den de guns would go 'bam, bam, bam, an' de chickens would
fall dead'. Dey shot de dogs in de yard. Course, to Heben, I am tellin' de truth. Dey took
de meat and destroyed mos' everything at Marster's. After dey lef', if you could get a few
beans or peas dey wus mighty good. People et tater peelings an' some come near starvin'.

"I wus mighty lucky an' what I got I got it from de Southern white folks; dey been mighty good
to me since de war. I have worked for de town 'bout 35 years and I work for it now. I ain't
able to do much now, but I have a section of de Courthouse. I keeps it might clean.

"I know nothin' much bout de great men you ax me 'bout; don't remember much about 'em. I think
slavery wus a bad thing, yes sir, I shore does." 1272 Pettigrew Street, Raleigh, North Carolina.

"I don't know who I am nor what my true name is. I wus born December 25, 1860 on a plantation
in New Hanover County. The plantation belonged to John Williams, whose wife wus named Isabella
and the farm wus on land which is now in the corporate limits of Wilmington, N.C.

"The reason I don't know who I am is that I don't remember my father and mother or any of my
people. When I got so I could remember anything I wus with the Williams family. Marster an'
missus, an' their family are the only ones I ever looked upon as my people. They never told
me who I wus.

"After the war I stayed with them a long time and helped them on the farm. They run a truck
farm. I got along all right while I wus with the Williams family, but when I got grown I left
them. I loved them but I realized I wus a nigger and knew that I could never be like them,
and that I wus one to myself.

"When I left I went to Little Washington, N.C. Then to Plymouth. I stayed at these places several
years working as a hand on truck farms. From there I went to Charlotte, Greensboro, and Norfolk.
I then went North an' stayed eight years in New York City as a waitman for a white man and
his family. I then went to Plymouth, N.C.

"I married Maggie Swain, a former sweetheart, as soon as I got back to Plymouth. We had two
children. She lived six years. I then married Mary Davenport of Little Washington. We had seven
children. She died and I come to Raleigh and married Maggie Towel. We had no children by our
marriage.

"I own no home and have never owned one. Excepting the eight years I spent in New York City
my life has been spent in farming. I farm some now and do little jobs for the white folks.

"I don't know much about slavery, as I wus too young to know much about it. There wus other
slaves belonging to Marster Williams but I don't remember any of them because when I got so
I could know what it wus all about they were free and gone from the plantation.

"I have asked thousands of questions trying to find out who my people are but no one has ever
told me who I am or who my people are. If I have any brothers and sisters, I don't know it.

"I have nothing to say about being partly white, I leave that to your imagination. I have thought
about it a lot. I don't know.

"I have been blessed with good health, I am breaking now but I am still able to do light jobs.

"I am a good fiddler. The white folks have taught me to do lots of different things. I have
had very few advantages and I cannot read and write.

"I have never been in jail in my life. I can give good references from dozens of white folks.
I try to live right, be honest and above all give my fellow man a square deal."

LE

Interview with LIZZIE WILLIAMS, Ex-slave, 35 Max Street, Asheville, N.C.

By Marjorie Jones, Aug. 24, 1937.

"I's bo'n in Selma, Alabam', I can't mind how long ago, but jes 'bout ninety yeahs. I come
to dis country 'bout 1882. Yes, I's purty porely des days an' I's gettin' homesick for my ol' home.

"I's bo'n and lib on ol' man Billy Johnson's plantation--thousan's acres of groun' and plenty
of niggahs. My pappy he allus b'long to ol' man Billy. He not sich a bad man but de Lawd knows
I's seed bettah ones. When I's right sma't size Missy Mixon, she was Marse Billy's wife sistah,
she get Marse Billy to let her hab me. She war a good woman. She took me to town to lib and
make a little white girl outten me. Y'all knows what I means; I got treated moh like de white
folks den de res' of de' niggahs.

"But 'twarn't long afore Missy send me to New 'Leans to nurse de sick chile of her sistah.
I never war satisfi' down dar. Evverbody so differen'. But de nex' year we go back to Alabam'.

"I went to Marse Ellis Mixon's, he tubble mean to his niggahs. But I belong to de Missus, she
allus treat me good. All de little niggahs have to learn to work when dey little; get out'n
pull weeds; dey neber had no time to play. Most dem niggahs was scared to death, jes like de
ones on Billy Johnson's plantation. Dey know dey get whupped jes like a mule iffen dey act
like dey don' wanna wurk. Dey neber get much to eat, jes side meat, co'n bread and 'lasses.
Ol' Billy he had overseers whut was mean to de pore niggahs. Sometime dey ties dem up an' dey
strip dem and dey whups dem wif cow hide, else dey lets other niggahs do it.

"All de niggahs have to go to church, jes lik' de white fokes. Dey have a part of de church
for demselfs. After de wah we hab a church of our own. All de niggahs love to go to church
an' sing. I mind a lot of de songs we used ter sing in de fiel's. I mind my pappy used ter
sing in de fiel'. 'Git on bo'd, little chillun, git on bo'd.' Sometimes day babtiz in de ribber.
Den dey sing:

    "'I wanna be ready
    I wanna be ready
    I wanna be ready good Lawd to walk in Jarusalem jes like John.
    John say de city was jes four square,
    To walk in Jarusalem jes like John.
    But I'll meet my mothah and fathah dar,
    To walk in Jarusalem, jes like John.'

"I 'members 'bout de paddyrollers. De niggahs hab' to get a pass from de massa or de missus
if dey go ennywhar. De paddyrollers jes lik' police. 'Bout dozen of dem ride 'long togedder.
Fus thing dey say: 'Whar yo' pass?' Den iffen yo' hab one dey lets you go but iffen you don'
hab one dey strips yo' to de waist and dey lams yo' good till de blood comes. Sometime dey
rolls you over a barrel and lams you while de barrel rolls.

"I mind a tale my pappy tell 'bout one time he see de paddyrollers comin'. He scared to death
cas he did'n hab no pass. He kno' iffen dey finds him whut dey do. So pappy he gets down in
de ditch an' throw sand an' grunts jes like a hawg. Sho' nuf dey thinks he a hawg and dey pass
on, cept one who was behin' de others. He say: 'Dat am de gruntin'es ol' hawg I ebber hear.
I think I go see him.' But de udders day say: 'Jes let dat ol' hawg lone an' min' yo own business.'
So day pass on. Pappy he laff 'bout dat for long time.

"I mind ol' Mose, he hab monthly pass from de massa but he forgit it one day and de paddyrollers
whup him and throw him in de callaboose. In de mawnin' when de massa wake and fin no fresh
water and no fire in de stove and de cows not milk, he say: 'I know Mose in de callaboose,'
and he hab to go atter Mose.

"Lots of de pore niggahs run away, but 'twarn't no use. Der wa'nt no place to go. Day was allus
lookin' for you and den you had to work harder den ebber, 'sides all kin's of punishment you
got. Den dey nearly sta've you to def, jes feed you on bread and water for long time.

"De niggahs nebber kno' nothin' 'bout learnin', jes wuk' all dey's fit for. De only thing I
ebber do wif a book is jes to dust it off. I mind two little niggahs whose missy teach dem
to read. Emily, she look lik' a white gal. She was treated jes like she white. Her daddy was
a white man. Emily was a sma't gal. She belong to one of de Johnson mens. She do all de sewin'
for her missy. When de missy go to buy clothes for de chillun she allus take Emily along. Her
pappy pay no more 'tention to her den to de res' of de niggahs. But de missy she was good to
her. She never stay in de quarters, she stay in de house with de white fokes. But Emily have
de saddes' look on her yaller face cas' de other niggahs whisper 'bout her pappy.

"Many de pore niggah women hab chillun for de massa, dat is iffen de massa a mean man. Dey
jes tell de niggahs whut to do and dey know better den to fuss.

"Ol' missus she good to me. I mind one time I got tubble mad an' say some ugly words. Marse
Ellis he come up ahin' me and he say: ''Lizabeth I gwina wallup yo' good for dat.' I 'mense
cryin' and run to de missus and she say: 'Look heah Ellis Mixon, y'all mind yo' own business
an' look atter yo' own niggahs. Dis one b'longs to me.' Jes same when de missus went upstairs
Marse Ellis take me in de smoke house and sta't to hit me. I yell for de missus an' when she
come she plenty mad. Marse say he nebber ment to whup me, jes scare me little.

"I mind 'bout de wah. We niggahs neber know whut it 'bout. We jes go on an' work. Nebber see
nothin', nebber hear nothin', nebber say nothin', but de wah all 'roun'. Evah day we heah dat
de Yankee sojers comin'. De plantations was gittin' robbed. Evabody kep' a hidin' things. It
was a tubble time. I mind plain when dey comes to Selma. All de fokes was at church when de
Yankees come. Day warn't no fightin' much, dey didn' hab time. Dey jes march in an' take de
town. But O, Lawdy, dat night dey burn de stores an' houses an' take all de things dey want.
Cannons and guns all 'round, it war tubble sight.

"Marse Ellis' plantation 'bout 15 mile from Selma on Pea Ridge. I mind one night Marse come
home from town and he say: 'Lizabeth.' I say, 'Yes, suh.' He say: 'Bring me some fresh watah
from de spring.' I run as fas' as I kin an' bring de watah an' gib it to him, den he say: 'Lizabeth,
de Yankees am comin' soon, an' I knows yo'se gwin to tell 'em where I hide all my 'longings,
guns an' ebberthing.'

"'No' I says, 'jes why would I tell whar yo' hide yo' guns an' things?' Missy come in den and
she say: 'Go on an' let Lizzie 'lone, bettah be feared dem niggahs you done so mean to gwine
tell, dats all you got to be feared of. But you, let Lizzie 'lone, she b'long to me.'

"Marse Ellis he go out an' hide some mo' stuff. Dat night de sojers burn Selma. Dat war on
Sunday. Next night we wake up in de middle of de night an' de house what we keep de bes' carriage
an' horse was a'burnin'. De pore ho'se done break outten de barn an' was a runnin' roun' all
over de place a'screamin' wif her poor back bu'nt tubble. We nebber find out iffen de Yankees
set de barn fire or not. Guess dey did. Dey done set Marse Hyde's house afire an' burn it to
de groun' with Marse Hyde in it. Marse Hyde he had plantation in New 'Leans and when de Yankees
take de town Marse Hyde he promise not to leave but when de sojers [HW: know] he 'scape and
come to his house on Pea Ridge, so when de Yankees fin' him here dey burn him in de house wif
all his 'longings.

"On de Tuesday mawnin' after dey burn Selma I wake up to see Marse Ellis' plantation all surroun'
wif Yankee sojers. I war nigh scared to death. I so 'fraid dey hurt me an' Missy but dey didden,
dey jes march through de house an' when dey see Marse Ellis dey ask him for he guns an' things
dey want. Marse Ellis show dem whar de things war. 'Twarn't no use to do anything else. I take
Marse Frank's 'backer an' hide it in de Missus' trunk. Den when de sojers git what dey want
dey laugh and ma'ch 'way on de hill.

"After de surren'er all de niggahs jes lost. Nowhar to go, nothin' to do, 'less dey stay wif
de massa. Nobuddy hab anything but 'federate money and it no good. My pappy had 'bout three
hunner dolla's but 'twarn't no good 'tall.

"All some of de white fokes think of war killin' de pore niggahs what worked for dem for yeahs.
Dey jes scour de country and shoot dem, 'specially de young men. One day dey come down de road
to'ards my pappy. Dey start askin' questions 'bout what he gwine to do now he free. 'What I
gwin to do?' says pappy. 'What can I do? I jes stay on de plantation an' help ol' Massa iffen
I can get an ol' mule an' a piece of an ol' plow.'

"One of de boys look at pappy an' say: 'I like take yo' head for a target,' but de ol' man
wif dem say no so dey leave my pappy 'lone. Dey hab de commissary whar de fokes git food; it
b'long to de Yankee sojers. Food scarce lik' ebberthing. Folks say now dey hab hard times;
dey don' know nothin' 'bout hard times less day lib in war time and be slave to white fokes.

"Den dey was de Ku Klux Klan. Dey war frightful lookin' critters. My pappy say dey go out in
de country an' tie pore niggahs to de tree and beat 'em to death. Dey dress all kin's of fashions.
Most of dem look like ghosts. Dey nebber go lik' de paddyrollers, dey jes sneak 'round at night
when de poor niggahs in bed. Den 'bout twelve 'clock dey tie up all de niggahs dey ketch and
atter dey through beatin' dem dey leaves dem wif dey han's tied in de air and de blood astreamin'
outten dey backs.

"Atter freedeom I come heah to live wif my fokes de Williams's, dats how I come to be Williams.
Nebber had no chillun of my own. Dey calls me 'Lizbeth Johnson 'fore I went to live with de
Mixons, den I be one of de Mixon niggahs, den later I be a Williams; don' guess names matter
much no way."

N.C. District:    No. 2 Worker:           Mary A. Hicks No. Words:        801 Subject:    
PENNY WILLIAMS Story teller:     Penny Williams Editor:           Daisy Bailey Waitt

PENNY WILLIAMS Ex-Slave Story

An interview with Penny Williams 76, of 716 S. East Street, Raleigh, N.C.

"I wus borned at de Hinton place 'bout three miles south of Raleigh, an' course we 'longed
ter Mr. Lawrence Hinton.

"My mammy wus named Harriet Moore an' my pappy wus named Mack Moore, dat wus cause dey 'longed
fust ter a Mr. Moore I 'specks. I had ten bruders an' sisters, an' we all done putty good.

"De marster owned 'round two hundert slaves an' 'bout four hundert acres o' lan' an' dey had
ter wuck peart, dey sez.

"We had 'nough ter eat, sich as it wus, but dat ain't braggin', I reckins. An' we wus punished
putty bad iffen we complains, sasses or 'fuses ter wuck lak we should. Nat Whitaker wus de
oberseer an' patteroller an' he wus strick, I'se tellin' you. I'se seed him beat slaves till
de blood run.

"Dar wus some nigger mens what 'ud go coutin' spite of de debil, an' as de marster ain't gibin'
dem no passes dey goes widout 'em. Mr. Whitaker, he whups, an' whups, but dat ain't stop 'em.
At las' Marster Lawrence 'cides ter hang cowbells on dere necks so's he can hyar dem if'en
dey leabes de place atter night.

"I'se tellin' you chile, dem niggers am gwin' anyway. Dey ain't got sense nuff ter put dere
han's in de bell ter keep de clapper from ringin', but dey does stuff de bell wid leaves an'
it doan ring none, 'sides dat dey tears deir shirts, or steals sheets from missus clothes line
an' fold dem ter make a scarf. Dey ties dese 'roun' deir necks ter hide de bell an' goes on
a-courtin'.

"Dey ain't got no pins ter pin de scarf on, but dey uses thornes from de locust tree or de
crabapple; an' dey hol's fine.

"Dey warn't no spoons, knives, an' forks dem days, but de smart slave cut him some outen hickory
an' dey wus jist as good as de other kin'.

"Dey also ain't go no matches dem days so flint rocks wus rubbed tergether.

"I 'members mostly 'bout de rear en' o' de war, 'specially 'bout de Yankees comin'. I 'members
dat marster an' his fambly done moved ter town, case dey can't git no 'tection dar. Dar wusn't
a soul on de place but de slaves dar when de Yankees comed a-takin' an' a-killin'.

"I 'members dat I wus drawin' water at de well, when de Yankees comed. I looks up de road an'
dar am a gang o' 'em comin'. I draps de bucket back in de well an' I flies in de big house.

"Well sir, dey kills de chickens, hogs, geese, an' eber' thing as dey comes, eben ter marster's
collie, an' when dey gits ter de big house dey swears dat dey'll burn hit down. Dey stan's
dar fur a minute, an' den one o' 'em sez dat hit am too putty ter burn, another one sez dat
hit am too putty ter belong ter a damm Reb, but dey doan burn it. I hyars hit all from de winder
in de big house, an' I shore is glad dat dey ain't burn hit.

"Dey tears up all dey wants to, den dey robs de smokehouse; an' dey goes on 'bout dere business.

"Atter de surrender our white folkses comes back an' we stays on five or six years I reckon,
den we moves ter Mis' Emma Greens' place five miles furder in de country. We shore ain't got
'long good atter de war. De Yankees what 'ud die ter free us ain't carin' iffen we starves nother."

Suddenly Aunt Penny was attracted by a hummingbird flitting around the pomegranate bush near
the doorstep.

"Does you know which am de bes' way ter ketch a hummin' bird chile?" After a negative answer
she smiled. "When you sees him 'roun' de flowers den you soaks two er three in whiskey, dey
bird will suck till he gits drunk an' can't fly 'way, dat's how you ketch him.

"I hates de town sparrers an' de cowbirds what ain't got nuff sense ter leave de floods. You
read 'bout hit in de papers I reckon. You knows dey am bout de size of a peckerwood.

"Yesum, one witch tried ter ride me onct. I wus in de bed, an' she thought dat I wus 'sleep.
I feels her when she crawls up on my lef' leg an' stops de circulation. I knows how ter fix
her do' so I gits up an' puts a knife under my pillow.

"I has slep' wid dat knife dar ever' since dat time an' I ain't had no mo' trouble wid witches
ner circulation nother. So I reckons dat I fixed her good an' plenty."

N.C. District: No. 2 Worker:        Mary A. Hicks No. Words:     471 Subject:       AUNT PLAZ
Source:        Plaz Williams Editor:        Geo. L. Andrews

AUNT PLAZ

An interview with Plaz Williams of Four Oaks who says that she is around 90 years of age.

"Margaret Thornton sez dat she has got de world record beat on nussin' but dat's whar she's
wrong. She ain't a day over seventy, yit she sez dat she has nussed more dan I has an' me ninety.
Right now I'se a nussin' of a 'oman what has jist got back from de hospital. Yes, mam, a heap
of people sez dat dey'd rather have me dan de doctor.

"I wus borned in Mississippi, so dey tells me, den I wus sold ter Mr. Moses Mordecai of Raleigh,
atter dat I 'longed ter a Mr. Henry Lane who lived in Wake County. Dar wus two er three of
dem Lane's named Henry, course dis one wus de youngest.

"I worked in de fiel's like a man an' I liked it too. Marse Moses had oberseers what beat you
fer nothin' but Marse Henry ain't dat sort of a person at all. Marse Moses an' Marse Henry
both drunk whiskey an' such but dey wus different when dey wus drunk. Marse Moses 'ud beat
you an' cuss you, but Marse Henry 'ud laugh at you an' play wid you.

"I know one time Marse Moses comed ter see Marse Henry an' atter dey had drunk awhile Marse
Henry seed me in de yard. Hit bein' on Sunday he calls me ter come to his library. When I gits
in he axes me iffen I'se ever been drunk an' I tells him no. Den he pours me a glassful an'
sez for me ter drink it. I begs at fust, den I sez dat I won't drink de brandy. Marse Henry
laugh an' would have let me go but dat debil, Marse Moses, sez, 'Le's hol' her an' pour it
down her guzzle, Henry.' Dat's what dey done an' dey pours down seberal drinks. Terreckly Marse
Henry axes me ter fetch him some water but when I starts my laigs am too weak to go so I sets
down on de floor. Marse Henry laugh an' laugh but Marse Moses sez, 'Whup de shameless hussy
what ain't got no mo' raisin' dan ter git dog drunk.' He would have whupped me too but Marse
Henry won't let him do it. 'Stid of beatin' me he sez ter git in de corner an' sleep it off.

"I doan know nothin' 'bout de Yankees comin' case we wus sent 'way back in de country ter stay.
Marse Henry comes out dar an' tells us dat we is free. Marse Henry has told Jack Williams dat
he can't have me 'fore dis, so I axes, 'Can I marry Jack now, Marse Henry.' He sez yes, so
'fore night I is at Jack's cabin. I thought dat dar ain't got ter be no preacher, but a week
er two atter dis a preacher comes by an' marries us.

"We moved here case hit am better farmin' land. We worked hard ter make anything do', an' fer
awhile I thought dat we'd starve ter death.

"Dar ain't so much ter tell about atter de war. Our chilluns died fast as we had 'em. We worked
hard an' 'bout twenty years ago Jack died. I'se been on de charity some but I hope dat when
I gits my pension I won't have ter trouble dem no more."

N.C. District: No. 2 Worker:        Mary A. Hicks No. Words:     652 Subject:       MELISSA
WILLIAMSON Story teller:  Melissa Williamson Editor:        Daisy Bailey Waitt

MELISSA WILLIAMSON Ex-Slave Story

An interview with Melissa Williamson 77 of Bledsoe Avenue, Raleigh, N.C.

"Dis June fifteenth sebenty-eight years ago I wuz borned in Franklin County near Louisburg.

"My mammy an' me belonged ter Mr. Billy Mitchell [HW: Mitchell (?)] 'fore she died, which wuz
one of de fust things dat I 'members, an' den Mis' Mitchel tuck me in her house an' raise me.
Dat wuz de fust year of de war, I believes.

"De Mitchels [HW: Mitchells (?)] wuz good ter us in a way, an' dey doan spare de rod when it
am needed, nor does dey think dat a picaninny can't go barefooted in de hot summertime. Dey
believes in a heap of wuck do' an' no play at all, an' very little rations.

"De men slaves 'ud wuck in de fiel's an' at dinnertime dey ain't had nothin' 'cept a quart
of buttermilk, an' a ash cake. I got a whole heap better dan dey did, but youngin'-like I begged
dem fer some of dere dinner.

"I neber thought dat Mis' Mitchel wuz hard till I seed her whup Aunt Pidea. Aunt Pidea wuz
a good soul an' she wuz good ter we youngins, an' we loved her. She got ter gittin' frantic
do', an' she'd put on her dinner on de stove, den she'd go ter de woods an' run an' romp lak
a chile.

"Mis Mitchel had loved her too, but atter awhile she got mad an' she wuz mad bad too. She tuck
Aunt Pidea out ter a tree, stripped off her waist, tied her ter de tree an' whup her wid a
cowhide till de blood runs down her back.

"We wuz told dat de Yankees would kill us an' we wuz skeered of dem too, an' I wuz always runnin'
fer fear de Yankees would git me. When dey did come I wuz out at de well, drawin' water wid
de windlass an' I wuz so short dat I had ter jump up ter grap de handle. I looked up de road
an' de Yankees wuz comin' up de road as thick as fleas on a dog's back. I gives a yell, turns
de windlass a loose, an' flies roun' de house ter my missus. Hit's a wonder dat windlass ain't
turn ober an break my haid in.

"I had hyard 'bout my sister what wuz sold 'fore I wuz borned, an' I ain't knowin' whar she
is, but atter de war had been ober fer two years she comed ter Mis' Mitchel's an' got me. She
carried me ter Louisburg an' sont me ter de Yankee school dar. I 'member a song dat de Yankees
teached us, or at least a part o' one.

    "'How often we think o' childhood joys
        And tricks we used to play
    Upon each other while at school
    To while the time away.'"

            Chorus

    "'They often wished me with them
    But they always wished in vain
    I'd rather be with Rosenell
    A-swinging in the lane.'"

"I won't talk ter my chilluns 'bout slavery days, case I doan want 'em ter git stirred up 'bout
it. I'se told 'em dat we ain't paid no mo' dan de white folkses fer our freedom, case some
of dem sold dereselbes ter git hyar an' dey fought in wars dat de nigger doan know nothin' 'bout.

"I know dat Mis' Mitchel done wrong when she ain't give us enough ter eat, an' when she whup
Aunt Pidea 'bout bein' crazy, but I 'members somethin' else dat make me tender towards her
an' other white folkses.

"I 'members dat Mis' Mitchel used ter take me visitin' ter white folkses houses an' some o'
dem hates niggers an' won't give me no place ter sleep, 'cept on de floor by missus bed. Sometimes
I can feel her now, kiverin' me up wid her own clothes durin' de night or feelin' me to see
if I'm chilly or too hot."

AC

N.C. District:   No. 2 Worker:          T. Pat Matthews No. Words:       1108 Subject:    
ALEX WOODS Story teller:    Alex Woods Editor:          Daisy Bailey Waitt

ALEX WOODS Ex-Slave Story

8 Ford Alley--end of Martin Street, Raleigh, N.C.

"My name is Alex Woods. I wus born May 15, 1858. In slavery time, I belonged to Jim Woods o'
Orange County. De plantation wus between Durham and Hillsboro near de edge o' Granville County.
My missus name wus Polly Woods. Dey treated us tolerable fair, tolerable fair to a fellow.
Our food wus well cooked. We were fed from de kitchen o' the great house.

"We called marster's house de 'great house' in dem times. We called de porch de piazza. We
were fed from de kitchen o' his house during de week. We cooked and et at our homes Saturday
nights and Sundays. We wove our clothes; children had only one piece, a long shirt. We went
barefooted, an' in our shirt tails; we youngins' did.

"We did not have any shoes winter nor summer, but mother and father had shoes with wooden bottoms
an' leather tops. Dr. Tupper, de man who was principal of de Shaw School, de man who started
de school and de church on Blount St., gave me my first pair o' shoes. Dis wus the second year
after de surrender. I wus nine years ole den. Dey were boots wid brass on de toes, solid leather
shoes, made in Raleigh on Fayetteville Street in de basement o' Tucker's Dry Goods Store, 'bove
de Masonic Temple as you go up. Ole man Jim Jones, a colored shoe maker, worked in dis shop.

"I can read, but I cannot write, 'cause I've been run over three times by automobiles. Once
my buggy wus torn to pieces, an' I wus knocked high in de air. De first time dey run into me
dey killed my hoss. De third time dey paralized my arm and busted the linin' o' my stomach.

"I learned to read an' write since de surrender by studying in spare time. Dey wouldn't let
any slaves have books in slavery time. Mother had a book she kep' hid. Dey would whup a slave
if dey caught him wid a book.

"Dere were between twenty-five and thirty slaves on de plantation but dere wus no church. Dey
would not allow us to have prayer meetings in our houses, but we would gather late in de night
and turn pots upside down inside de door to kill de sound and sing and pray for freedom. No
one could hear unless dey eaves-drapped.

"The patteroller rode around to see after de slaves and whipped 'em when dey caught' em away
from home. I have seen slaves whipped. Dey took them into the barn and corn crib and whipped
'em wid a leather strap, called de cat-o'nine tails. Dey hit 'em ninety-nine licks sometimes.
Dey wouldn't allow 'em to call on de Lord when dey were whippin' 'em, but dey let 'em say 'Oh!
pray, Oh! pray, marster'. Dey would say, 'Are you goin' to work? Are you goin' visitin' widout
a pass? Are you goin' to run away?' Dese is de things dey would ax him, when dey wus whuppin' him.

"My old marster's brother John wus a slave speculator. I 'member seein' him bringin' slaves
in chains to de plantation when he wus carryin' 'em to Richmond to put 'em on de auction block
to be sold. Dey were handcuffed wid a small chain to a large chain between 'em, two men side
by side; dere wus 'bout thirty in a drove. Dere wus 'bout three or four white men on horses.
Dey wus called slave drivers; some went before, an' some behind. Dey carried pistols on dere
sides. De distance wus so fur, dey camped out at night. De slaves set by de fire, and slept
on dese trips wid de chains on 'em. Evertime de mens come to our house I wus afraid my mother
and father would be sold away from me. If a woman wus a good breeder she sold high, sometimes
bringin' five hundred to a thousand dollars. De man who wus doin' de buyin' would inspect dem.
Dey would look in dere mouthes, and look 'em over just like buyin' hosses. There were no jails
on de plantation.

"Sometimes we went to the white folkses church. De preacher would tell us to obey our missus
and master. Dat's what de preacher tole us. Dey would take us back home and give us plenty
to eat after preachin' was over, and tell us to do what de preacher said. Dey tasked us Saturday
mornings, and if we got it done we could go to de branch on a flat rock and wash our clothes.

"Dey 'lowed my father to hunt wid a gun. He wus a good hunter an' he brought a lot o' game
to de plantation. Dey cooked it at de great house and divided it up. My father killed deer
and turkey. All had plenty o' rabbits, possums, coons, an' squirrels.

"My father's first wife wus sold from him, an' I am de chile o' de second wife. I had five
brothers, Greene, Isom, Nupez, den Sam Woods, who wus no slave, den Spencer Woods, he wus no
slave. I had five sisters: Mollie, Rasella, who were slaves, an' Nancy, Catharine, an' Fanny
who were not slaves. My father wus named Major Woods, and mother wus named Betty Woods.

"Yes Sir, I 'member gettin' sick before de surrender, an' dey bled me and gave me blue mass
pills. Dey wouldn't tell me what wus de matter. Missus chewed our food for us, when we wus
small. De babies wus fed wid sugar tits, and the food missus chewed. Deir suckled mothers suckled
dem at dinner, an' den stayed in de field till night. I remember missus chewin' fer me, an'
de first whippin' I got. Missus whipped me for pushin' my sister in de fire. Sister called
me a lie and I pushed her in de fire an' burned her hand. Missus whipped me. We never did fight
nor push one another after dat.

"Marster used colored overseers when he did not work his men hisself.

"I wus very much afraid o' de Ku Klux. Dey wore masks and dey could make you think dey could
drink a whole bucket of water and walk widout noise, like a ghost. Colored folks wus afraid
of 'em. Dey wus de fear o' de niggers.

"I married Addie Shaw in 1888 first, den in 1918 I married agin. I think Abraham Lincoln wus
all right. He caused us to be free. Franklin D. Roosevelt is all right; he kept a lot of people
from perishing to death."

"I wus borned de year de war ended so I can't tell nothin' dat I seed, only what my mammy tol'
me. We lived dar on Marse James Ellis' plantation till I wus five or six years old, so I 'members
de slave cabins an' de big house.

"De plantation wus in Scotland County an' de big house set on a little knoll. Back of de big
house set de rows of slave cabins an' back of dem wus de apple orchard an' de bee orchard.
Hit wus a purty place sho' nuff, an' dey tells me dat dey wus happy 'fore de war, 'case Marse
James wus good ter dem.

"Dere must of been 'bout two hundret slaves, 'cordin' ter de number of cabins. De slaves wurked
hard in de fiel's but unless de wurk wus pushin' dey had Sadday evenin' off ter go a-fishin'
er do anything de wanted ter do. Two or three times a year Marse James let dem have a dance
an' invite in all de neighborhood slaves. Dey had corn shuckin's ever' fall an' de other slaves
'ud come ter dem.

"De candy pullin's wus a big affair wid de niggers. Dey'd come from all over de neighborhood
ter cook de lasses an' pull de candy. While de candy cooled dey'd play drappin' de handkerchief
an' a heap of other games. De courtin' couples liked dese games 'case dey could set out or
play an' court all dey pleased. Dey often made up dere min's ter ax de marster iffen dey could
narry [TR: marry] too, at dese parties.

"De weddin's wus somethin' fine, believe me. De niggers dressed lak a white folks weddin' an'
de circuit parson married dem in de big house parlour. De marster an' de missus wus dere, an'
dey always gived presents ter de bride too. Atter de ceremony wus over dar'd be a feas' an'
a dance. Most likely dar'd be a heap of noise. I've heard mammy tell of seberal big weddin's.

"Mammy tol' me dat Marse James wus a very religious man, an' dat wus why de preacher married
de slaves, an' why he made all of de slaves go ter church on Sunday an' say de blessin' at
meal times.

"My pappy wus named Tom, an' he wurked in de fiel's fer Marse James. Hit wus pappy dat haul
up de waremelons in de wagin body atter I could 'member, an' dey said dat he haul dem up in
slavery times too. Marse James raise a plenty melons fer all of de slaves an' he raise plenty
of hogs ter eat de rines. De slaves uster have a watermelon slicin' 'bout once a week an' sometimes
dey'd invite de neighbors in.

"You wants ter know 'bout some ole slavery foods, well I'll tell you what I knows. Did you
ever hear of kush? Kush was cornbread, cooked in de big griddle on de fireplace, mashed up
with raw onions an' ham gravy poured over hit. You mought think dat hit ain't good but hit am.

"Fried chicken wus seasoned, drapped in flour an' den simmered in a big pan of ham gravy wid
a lid on hit till hit wus tender, den de lid wus tuck off an' de chicken wus fried a golden
brown as quick as possible.

"Does you know de old southern way of makin' baked chicken dressin'? Well, it wus made from
soft corn bread wid bacon grease, onions, black pepper an' boiled eggs. Some of de folks used
cheese too in dis dressin'.

"De griddle cakes wus flour an' meal mixed, put on a big ole iron griddle on de fireplace an'
flipped over two times. Ashe cake wus made of either meal or flour, wrapped in a damp cloth
an' cooked in de hot ashes on de h'ath. Taters wus cooked in de ashes too an' dey wus good
like dat. I'se heard mammy say dat de slave chilluns uster bake onions dat way.

"Fish, dem days, wus dipped in meal, 'fore dey wus cooked, 'cept cat fish; an' dey wus stewed
wid onions.

"Cornmeal dumplin's wus biled in de turnip greens, collards, cabbages, an' so on, even ter
snap beans, an' at supper de pot licker wus eat wid de dumplin's. Dat's why de folks wus so
healthy.

"Speakin' 'bout sweets, de blackberry or other kind of pie wus cooked in a big pan wid two
crusts. Dat made more an' wus better ter boot. Cakes wus mostly plain or had jelly fillin',
'cept fer special company.

"From the first I could 'member de white folks an' niggers alike ain't had much ter eat. A
heap of our rations wus vege'ables, squirrels, rabbits, possums an' coons. We drunk parched
meal water fer coffee an' we done widout a heap of things, but atter awhile we got richer,
an' Marse James got some money for something from de No'th, so dey got 'long all right.

"When I wus twelve we moved ter Wake County, out near Wendell an' when I wus thirteen I married
Sam Wright, an' we got along fine till he dies 'bout ten years ago. We ain't had but three
chilluns but we lived through a heap of bad depressions.

"What we needs mostly am law an' justice. Why hit wus better when de Ku Kluxes had law, dey
tells me. Now-a-days de nigger fights on de streets like dogs. Back den de bossman seed to
hit dat dar wus law an' order in de town an' in de country too fer dat matter, an' dem wus
de good ole days." Frum what dey tole me Sherman knowed de south like a book 'fore he come
thro' last time. Dat he did. Yankees come thro' dressed like tramps an' dey wus always lookin'
fur some of dere people. Dat wus dere scuse. Dey wus at big shindigs de southern white folks
had 'fore de war.

"Mammy an' dad dey said de niggers would git in de slave quarters at night an' pray fer freedom
an' laf 'bout what de Yankees wus doin' 'bout Lincoln an' Grant foolin' deir marsters so.

"Ole Jeff Davis said he wus goin' to fight de Yankees till hell wus so full of 'em dat dere
legs wus hangin' over de sides, but when dey got 'im in a close place he dres in 'omans clothes
an' tried to git away frum 'em but dey seed his boots when he started to git in dat thing dey
rode in den, a carriage. Yes dats what it wus a carriage. Dey seed his boots an' knowed who
it wus. Dey jus laffed an' pointed at 'im an' said you hol' on dere we got you, we knows who
you is an' den dey took 'im. He wus mighty brave till dey got 'im in a close place den he quit
barkin' so loud. Mammy an' dad dey said dere wus a lot of de white folks didn't keer much 'bout
Jeff Davis. Dey said he wus jus de bragginest man in de worl', always a-blowin'. Dat bird flew
mighty high but he had to come back to de groun' an' course when he lit de Yankees wus waitin'
for 'im an' ketched 'im.

"I wus born May 2nd, two years after de surrender. I is 70 years old. My mammy belonged to
Autsy Pool. When he died she fell to his son Billy Pool. There wus six of the chillun, an'
they wus given out to the Pool chillun. Dey went like lan' does now; dey went to de heirs.
Ole man Autsy loved likker so good he would steal it from hisself. He'd take a drink an' den
blow his breath an' keep wife from smellin' it."

[HW margin: (following paragraph) to p. 7]

"My uncle, Parker Pool, tole me de Yankees made a slave of him. His Marster wus so good to
him he wus as happy as he could be 'fore de Yankees come.

"I wus born on the Harper Whitaker place near Swift Creek. Simon Yellady wus my father. He
wus born in Mississippi an' he belonged to Dr. Yelladay.

"My father an' his brothers run away an' went to de Yankees. I heard daddy tell 'bout it. He
got sick an' dey shipped him back home to North Carolina. Dey shifted niggers from place to
place to keep de Yankees frum takin' 'em. When dere got to be too many Yankees in a place de
slaves wus sent out to keep' em from bein' set free.

"Mother said onct when she wus carrying the cows to de pasture dey looked down de railroad
an' everything wus blue. A nigger girl by the name of Susan wus with her. My mother wus named
Rilla Pool. Dey said dey jus fell down an' de Yankees commenced sayin' 'Hello Dinah,' 'Hello
Susie.' Mother an' Susan run. Dey just went flyin'. When dey crossed a creek my mother lost
her shoe in de mud, but she just kept runnin'. When she got home she tole her missus de Yankees
were ridin' up de railroad just as thick as flies. Den my great-grandmother said, 'Well I has
been prayin' long enough for 'em now dey is here.' My great-grandmother wus named Nancy Pool
an' she wus not afraid of nothin'. I wus a little teency thing when she died.

"My mother tole we all about dem times dey rode de horses up to de smoke house an' got de meat.
De Yankees went to de clothes line an' got de clothes an' filled de legs an' arms wid corn
an' slung it over dere saddles an' rode away. Yes, de Yankees freed us but dey lef' nuthin'
for us to live on. Dey give us freedom but dey took mos' everything an' lef' us nuthin' to
eat, nuthin' to live on.

"We lived in Wake County all de time. I did not git only to the third grade in school. Sister
Mary Eliza got to de second grade. Father could write a little, mother couldn't. Couldn't go
to school 'cept when it wus too wet to work. Work, work, work, thirty acres in cotton an' cawn,
cawn plowed till de 15th of August, plow, plow, plow hard ground, bad ground. Nine girls an'
one boy workin' from sun to sun. My mother had twenty-three chillun. She wus just as smart
as she could be, worked in de field till just awhile before she died. She been dead 'bout twenty
years. My father been dead 'bout ten years. He died right here in Raleigh with me, at 121 corner
Mark an' Bledsoe Street.

"I've had a hard time workin' all my life. I ain't able to work now but I does all I can. I
have places to work a little every day for my white folks. I am gwine to work long as I kin.
My mother an' father said dey had good marsters an' dey were crazy 'bout 'em. Sometimes dey
sold slaves an' den de patterollers whupped 'em now an' den, but dey had nuthin' to say against
dere white folks.

"Well, I los' my home. I have worked mos' uv my life since I come to Raleigh, buyin' a home,
but I got ole an' couldn't keep up de payments an' dey come down ere an' took my home. 'Twas
the wurst thing dats come to me in my whole life. Less you tried it yo' can't 'magine how bad
it makes you feel to have to give up yer home."

AC

N.C. District: No. 2 Worker:        T. Pat Matthews No. Words:     398 Subject:       HILLIARD
YELLERDAY (A SLAVE STORY) Reference:     Hilliard Yellerday Editor:        George L. Andrews

HILLIARD YELLERDAY 1112 Oakwood Avenue, Raleigh North Carolina.

"My mother and father told me many interesting stories of slavery and of its joys and sorrows.
From what they told me there was two sides to the picture. One was extremely bad and the other
was good.

"These features of slavery were also dependent on the phases of human attitude and temperment
which also was good or bad. If the master was broadminded, with a love in his heart for his
fellowman, his slaves were at no disadvantage because of their low social standing and their
lack of a voice in the civil affairs of the community, state, and nation. On the other hand
if the master was narrowminded, overbearing and cruel the case was reversed and the situation
the slaves were placed in caused a condition to exist concerning their general welfare that
was bad and the slave was as low socially as the swine or other animals on the plantation.

"Some owners gave their slaves the same kind of food served on their own tables and allowed
the slaves the same privileges enjoyed by their own children. Other masters fed their slave
children from troughs made very much like those from which the hogs of the plantation were
fed. There were many instances where they were given water in which the crumbs and refuse from
the masters table had been placed. They gathered around this food with gourds and muscle shells
from the fresh-water creeks and ate from this trough. Such a condition was very bad indeed."

[HW: begin]

"My mother was named Maggie Yellerday, and my father was named Sam Yellerday. They belonged
to Dr. Jonathan Yellerday, who owned a large plantation and over a hundred slaves. His plantation
looked like a small town. He had blacksmith shops, shoe shops, looms for weaving cloth, a corn
mill, and a liquor distillery. There was a tanyard covering more than a quarter of an acre
where he tanned the hides of animals to use in making shoes. There was a large bell they used
to wake the slaves, in the morning, and to call them to their meals during the day. He had
carriages and horses, stable men and carriage men. The carriage master and his family rode
in was called a coach by the slaves on the plantation. His house had eighteen rooms, a large
hall, and four large porches. The house set in a large grove about one mile square and the
slave quarters were arranged in rows at the back of master's great house. The nearest cabins
were about one hundred yards from it.

"Dr. Jonathan Yellerday looked after slaves' health and the food was fair, but the slaves were
worked by overseers who made it hard for them, as he allowed them to whip a slave at will.
He had so many slaves he did not know all their names. His fortune was his slaves. He did not
sell slaves and he did not buy many, the last ten years preceding the war. He resorted to raising
his own slaves.

"When a girl became a woman she was required to go to a man and become a mother. There was
generally a form of marriage. The master read a paper to them telling them they were man and
wife. Some were married by the master laying down a broom and the two slaves, man and woman
would jump over it. The master would then tell them they were man and wife and they could go
to bed together. Master would sometimes go and get a large hale hearty Negro man from some
other plantation to go to his Negro woman. He would ask the other master to let this man come
over to his place to go to his slave girls. A slave girl was expected to have children as soon
as she became a woman. Some of them had children at the age of twelve and thirteen years old.
Negro men six feet tall went to some of these children.

"Mother said there were cases where these young girls loved someone else and would have to
receive the attentions of men of the master's choice. This was a general custom. This state
of affairs tended to loosen the morals of the Negro race and they have never fully recovered
from its effect. Some slave women would have dozens of men during their life. Negro women who
had had a half dozen mock husbands in slavery time were plentiful. The holy bonds of matrimony
did not mean much to a slave. The masters called themselves Christians, went to church worship
regularly and yet allowed this condition to exist. Mother, father, sister and I were sent as
refugees from Mississippi to N.C. They were afraid the Yankees would get us in Mississippi.
I was only four years old when the war ended as I was born April 6, 1861 so I do not remember
the trip. We were sent to Warren County to the Brownloe's plantation where we stayed until
the war ended.

"There was a question as to just what Mississippi would do and then mother said the Doctor
feared we would be taken by the Yankees there so he sent us to N.C. to the above named County.
Mother was sent to stay with Mrs. Green Parrish and she took me with her. Mr. Green Parrish
was gone to the war. In the last of the war, he was wounded and sent home. While he was recovering
I fanned the flies off him. That's the first thing I remember about the war. When he got well
he went back and then the war soon ended. After the war ended father and the family moved to
Halifax County and worked on a farm belonging to Mr. Sterling Johnston. I was in Warren County
when I first began to remember anything and I do not have any specific remembrance of the Yankees.
We stayed in Halifax County eighteen years, going from one plantation to another, but we made
no money. The landlords got all we made except what we ate and wore. They would always tell
us we ate ours up. Sometimes we would be almost naked, barefooted and hungry when the crop
was housed and then the landlord would make us leave. We would go to another with about the
same results.

"There was a story going that each slave would get forty acres of land and a mule at the end
of the war. The Yankees started this story but the mule and land was never given and slaves
were turned out without anything and with nowhere to go.

"We moved to Wake County and I farmed until 1903. I had not gotten one hundred dollars ahead
in all this time so I got a job with the railroad, S.A.L. Shops in Raleigh, N.C. and that is
the only place I ever made any money.

"Father died in 1900 and mother in 1923. I worked from 1903 until 1920 with the S.A.L. Railroad
as flunkey. I worked as box packer and machinist's helper. Mother and father died without ever
owning a house but I saved my money while working for the Railroad Company and bought this
lot 157 X 52-1/2 and had this house built on it. The house has five rooms and cost about one
thousand dollars. I've been so of late years I could not pay my taxes. I am partially blind
and unable to work anymore."

EH

       *       *       *       *       *

All footnotes use numbers for consistency, and are reindexed.

Contractions match original text and are inconsistent due to the variety of narrators and interviewers.

Page 5: Retained "Progro Marshells" and "Provo Marshell" inconsistency.

Pages 425-427 and 431-433: Retained inconsistent spellings for "Yelladay", "Yellady", and "Yellerday".

Handwritten edits to punctuation, nested quotation marks, and the following typos have been
corrected:

Page 24: Changed "wnated" to "wanted" (I wnated ter go wid him).

Page 35: Changed "ha" to "he" (an' when ha azed dem who dey wus).

Page 45: Changed "Ca8olina" to "Carolina" (de No'th Ca8olina line).

Page 67: Changed "do" to "de" (set fire to do cotton).

Page 167: Changed "creulty" to "cruelty" (stops creulty on plantation).

Page 170: Changed "sn'" to "an'" (Jake, sn' he 'longed ter a family).

Page 249: Changed "I8d" to "I'd" (I8d learn ah half uh chaptuh) and
  (an I8d write stories about Christ).