 To add to the odours, the air was vitiated by the smell of pigeons killed for fete
days, and of dishes stolen from the refectory, and kept by the pupils in their lockers. The
boy who, in the future, was to awaken actual physical disgust in his readers by his description
of the stuffy and dingy boarding-house dining-room in "Le Pere Goriot," was crushed and stupefied
by his surroundings, and would sit for hours with his head on his hand, not attempting to learn,
but gazing dreamily at the clouds, or at the foliage of the trees in the court below. No wonder
that he was the despair of his masters, and that his famous "Traite de la volonte," which he
composed instead of preparing the ordinary school work, was summarily confiscated and destroyed.
So many were the punishment lines given him to write, that his holidays were almost entirely
taken up, and he had not six days of liberty the whole time that he was at college.

In addition to the troubles incident to Honore's peculiar temperament and genius, he had in
the winter, like the other pupils, to submit to actual physical suffering. The price of education
included also that of clothing, the parents who sent their children to the Vendome College
paying a yearly sum, and therewith comfortably absolving themselves from all trouble and responsibility.
But the results were not happy for the boys, who dragged themselves painfully along the icy
roads in miserable remnants of boots, their feet half dead, and swollen with sores and chilblains.
Out of sixty children, not ten walked without torture, and many of them would cry with rage
as they limped along, each step being a painful effort; but with the invincible physical pluck
and moral cowardice of childhood, would hide their tears, for fear of ridicule from their companions.

Nevertheless, even to Balzac, who was peculiarly unfitted for it, life at the college had its
pleasures. The food appears to have been good, and the discipline at meals not very severe,
as a regular system of exchange of helpings to suit the particular tastes of each boy went
on all through dinner, and caused endless amusement. Some one who had received peas as his
portion would prefer dessert, and the proposition "Un dessert pour des pois" would pass from
mouth to mouth till the bargain had been made. Other pleasures were the pet pigeons, the gardens,
the sweets bought secretly during the walks, the permission to play cards and to have theatrical
performances during the holidays, the military music, the games, and the slides made in winter.
Best of all, however, was the shop which opened in the class-room every Sunday during playtime
for the sale of boxes, tools, pigeons of all sorts, mass-books (for these there was not much
demand), knives, balls, pencils--everything a boy could wish for. The proud possessor of six
francs--meant to last for the term--felt that the contents of the whole shop were at his disposal.
Saturday night was passed in anxious yet rapturous calculations, and the responses at Mass
during that happy Sunday morning mingled themselves with thoughts of the glorious time coming
in the afternoon. Next Sunday was not quite so delightful, as probably there were only a few
sous left, and possibly some of the purchases were broken, or had not turned out quite satisfactorily.
Then, too, there was a long vista of Sundays in the future, without any possibility of shopping;
but after all a certain amount of compounding is always necessary in life, and an intense short
joy is worth a grey time before and after.

When Balzac was fourteen years old, his life at the college came suddenly to an end, as, to
the alarm of his masters, he was attacked by coma with feverish symptoms, and they begged his
parents to take him home at once. It is curious to notice that the Fathers make no reference
to this failure in their educational system in the school record, where there is no reason
given for Honore's departure from school. Certainly his life at Vendome was not very healthy,
as sometimes for idleness, inattention, or impertinence he was for months shut up every day
in a niche six feet square, with a wooden door pierced by holes to let in air. When Champfleury
visited the college years afterwards, the only person who remembered Balzac was the old Father
who had charge of these cells, and he spoke of the boy's "great black eyes." Confinement in
these culottes de bois, as they were called, was much dreaded by the boys, and the punishment
seems barbarous and senseless, except from the point of view of getting rid of troublesome
pupils. Balzac, however, welcomed the relief from ordinary school life, and indeed manoeuvred
to be shut up. In the cells he had leisure to dream as he pleased, he was free from the drudgery
of learning his lessons, and he managed to secrete books in his cage, and thus to absorb the
contents of most of the volumes in the fine library collected by the learned Oratorian founders
of the college. The ideas in many of the learned tomes were far beyond his age, but he understood
them, remembered them afterwards, and could recall in later years not only the thought in each
book, but also the disposition of his mind when he read them. Naturally this precocity of intellect
caused brain fatigue, though this would never have been suspected by the Fathers of their idlest
pupil.

Honore, his sister tells us, came home thin and puny, like a somnambulist sleeping with open
eyes, and his grandmother groaned over the strain of modern education. At first he heard hardly
any of the questions that were put to him, and his mother was obliged to disturb him in reveries,
and to insist on his taking part in games with the rest of the family; but with the fresh air
and the home life he soon recovered his health and spirits, and became again a lively, merry
boy. He attended lectures at a college near, and had tutors at home; but great efforts were
necessary in order to get into his head the requisite amount of Greek and Latin. Nevertheless,
at times, he was astonishing, or might have been to any one with powers of observation. On
these occasions he made such extraordinary and sagacious remarks that Madame de Balzac, in
her character of represser, felt obliged to remark sharply, "You cannot possibly understand
what you are saying, Honore!" When Honore, who dared not argue, looked at her with a smile,
she would, with the ease of absolute authority, escape from the awkwardness of the situation
by remarking that he was impertinent. He was already ambitious, and would tell his sisters
and brother about his future fame, and accept with a laugh the teasing he received in consequence.

It must have been during this time that he grew to love with an enduring love the scenery of
his native province of Touraine, with its undulating stretches of emerald green, through which
the Loire or the Indre wound like a long ribbon of water, while lines of poplars decked the
banks with moving lace. It was a smiling country, dotted with vineyards and oak woods, while
here and there an old gnarled walnut tree stood in rugged independence. The susceptible boy,
lately escaped from the abominations of the stuffy school-house, drank in with rapture the
warm scented air, and often describes in his novels the landscape of the province where he
was born, which he loves, in his own words, "as an artist loves art." Another lasting memory[*]
was that of the poetry and splendour of the Cathedral of Saint-Gatien in Tours, where he was
taken every feast-day. There he watched with delight the beautiful effects of light and shade,
the play of colour produced by the rays of sunlight shining through the old stained glass,
and the strange, fascinating effect of the clouds of incense, which enveloped the officiating
priests, and from which he possibly derived the idea of the mists which he often introduces
into his descriptions.

                             CHAPTER III

                             1814 - 1820

  Balzac's tutors and law studies--His youth, as pictured in the
  "Peau de Chagrin"--His father's intention of making him a lawyer
  --He begs to be allowed to become a writer--Is allowed his wish
  --Life in the Rue Lesdiguieres, privations and starvation--He
  writes "Cromwell," a tragedy.

At the end of 1814 the Balzac family moved to Paris, as M. de Balzac was put in charge of the
Commissariat of the First Division of the Army. Here they took a house in the Rue de Roi-Dore,
in the Marais, and Honore continued his studies with M. Lepitre, Rue Saint-Louis, and MM. Sganzer
and Benzelin, Rue de Thorigny, in the Marais. To the influence of M. Lepitre, a man who, unlike
old M. de Balzac and many other worthy people, was an ardent Legitimist before as well as after
1815, we may in part trace the strength of Balzac's Royalist principles. On the 13th Vendemiaire,
M. Lepitre had presided over one of the sections of Paris which rose against the Convention;
and though on one occasion he failed in nerve, his services during the Revolution had been
most conspicuous. On his reception at the Tuileries by the Duchesse d'Angouleme, she used these
words, never to be forgotten by him to whom they were addressed: "I have not forgotten, and
I shall never forget, the services you have rendered to my family."[*]

[*] "Biographie Universelle," by De Michaud.

We can imagine the enthusiasm and delight with which the man who, whatever might be his shortcomings
in courage, had always remained firm to his Royalist principles, and who had been a witness
of the terrible anguish of the prisoners in the Temple, would hear these words from the lips
of the lady who stood to him as Queen--the Antigone of France--the heroine whose sufferings
had made the heart of every loyal Frenchman bleed, the brave woman who, according to Napoleon,
was the one man of her family. Lepitre's visit to the Tuileries took place on May 9th, 1814,
the year that Balzac began to take those lessons in rhetoric which first opened his eyes to
the beauty of the French language. During Lepitre's tuition he composed a speech supposed to
be addressed by the wife of Brutus to her husband, after the condemnation of her sons, in which,
Laure tells us, the anguish of the mother is depicted with great power, and Balzac shows his
wonderful faculty for entering into the souls of his personages. Lepitre had evidently a powerful
influence over his pupil, and as a master of rhetoric he would naturally be eloquent and have
command of language, and in consequence would be most probably of fiery and enthusiastic temperament.
We can imagine the fervour with which the impressionable boy drank in stories of the sufferings
of the royal family during their imprisonment in the Temple, and strove not to miss a syllable
of his master's magnificent exordiums, which glowed with the light and heat of impassioned loyalty.

No doubt Balzac's "Une Vie de Femme," a touching account of the life of the Duchesse d'Angouleme,
which appeared in the Reformateur in 1832, was partly compiled from the reminiscences of his
old master; and when we hear of his ardent defence of the Duchesse de Berry, or that he treasured
a tea-service which was not of any intrinsic value, because it had belonged to the Duc d'Angouleme,
we see traces of his intense love and admiration for the Bourbon family.

Nevertheless, in that big, well-balanced brain there was room for many emotions, and for a
wide range of sympathies. The many-sidedness which is a necessary characteristic of every great
psychologist, was a remarkable quality in Balzac. Balzac's admiration for Napoleon was intense,
as he shows in many of his writings, and his proudest boast is to be found in the words, said
to have been inscribed on a statuette of Napoleon in his room in the Rue Cassini, "What he
has begun with the sword, I shall finish with the pen."

None of Balzac's masters thought much of his talents, or perceived anything remarkable about
him. He returned home in 1816, full of health and vigour, the personification of happiness;
and his conscientious mother immediately set to work to repair the deficiencies of his former
education, and sent him to lectures at the Sorbonne, where he heard extempore speeches from
such men as Villemain, Guizot, and Cousin. Apparently this teaching opened a new world to him,
and he learned for the first time that education can be more than a dull routine of dry facts,
and felt the joy of contact with eloquence and learning. Possibly he realised, as he had not
realised before--Tours being, as he says, a most unliterary town--that there were people in
the world who looked on things as he did, and who would understand, and not laugh at him or
snub him. He always returned from these lectures, his sister says, glowing with interest, and
would try as far as he could to repeat them to his family. Then he would rush out to study
in the public libraries, so that he might be able to profit by the teaching of his illustrious
professors, or would wander about the Latin Quarter, to hunt for rare and precious books. He
used his opportunities in other ways. An old lady living in the house with the Balzacs had
been an intimate friend of the great Beaumarchais. Honore loved to talk to her, and would ask
her questions, and listen with the greatest interest to her replies, till he could have written
a Life of the celebrated man himself. His powers of acute observation, interest, and sympathy--in
short, his intense faculty for human fellowship, as well as his capacity for assimilating information
from books--were already at work; and the future novelist was consciously or unconsciously
collecting material in all directions.

In 1816 it was considered necessary that he should be started with regular work, and he was
established for eighteen months with a lawyer, M. de Guillonnet-Merville, who was, like M.
Lepitre, a friend of the Balzac family, and an ardent Royalist. Eugene Scribe--another amateur
lawyer--as M. de Guillonnet-Merville indulgently remarked, had just left the office, and Honore
was established at the desk and table vacated by him. He became very fond of his chief, whom
he has immortalised as Derville in "Une Tenebreuse Affaire," "Le Pere Goriot," and other novels;
and he dedicated to this old friend "Un Episode sous la Terreur," which was published in 1846,
and is a powerful and touching story of the remorse felt by the executioner of Louis XVI. After
eighteen months in this office, he passed the same time in that of M. Passez, a notary, who
lived in the same house with the Balzacs, and was another of their intimates.

Balzac does not appear to have made any objection to these arrangements, though his legal studies
cannot have been congenial to him; but they were only spoken of at this time as a finish to
his education--old M. de Balzac, homme de loi himself, remarking that no man's education can
be complete without a knowledge of ancient and modern legislation, and an acquaintance with
the statutes of his own country. Perhaps Honore, wiser now than in his school-days, had learnt
that all knowledge is equipment for a literary life. He certainly made good use of his time,
and the results can be seen in many of his works, notably in the "Tenebreuse Affaire," which
contains in the account of the famous trial a masterly exposition of the legislature of the
First Empire, or in "Cesar Birotteau," which shows such thorough knowledge of the laws of bankruptcy
of the time that its complicated plot cannot be thoroughly understood by any one unversed in
legal matters.

Honore was very well occupied at this time, and his mother must have felt for once thoroughly
satisfied with him. In addition to his study of law, he had to follow the course of lectures
at the Sorbonne and at the College of France; and these studies were a delightful excuse for
a very fitful occupation of his seat in the lawyer's office. Besides his multifarious occupations,
he managed in the evening to find time to play cards with his grandmother, who lived with her
daughter and son-in-law. The gentle old lady spoilt Honore, his mother considered, and would
allow him to win money from her, which he joyfully expended on books. His sister, who tells
us this, says, "He always loved those game in memory of her; and the recollection of her sayings
and of her gestures used to come to him like a happiness which, as he said, he wrested from
a tomb."

Other recollections of this time were not so pleasant. Honore wished to shine in society. No
doubt the two "immense and sole desires--to be famous and to be loved"--which haunted him continually,
till he at last obtained them at the cost of his life, were already at work within him, and
he longed for the tender glances of some charming demoiselle. At any rate he took dancing-lessons,
and prepared himself to enter with grace into ladies' society. Here, however, a terrible humiliation
awaited him. After all his care and pains, he slipped and fell in the ball-room, and his mortification
at the smiles of the women round was so great that he never danced again, but looked on henceforward
with cynicism which he expresses in the "Peau de Chagrin." That wonderful book, side by side
with its philosophical teaching, gives a graphic picture of one side of Balzac's restless,
feverish youth, as "Louis Lambert" does of his repressed childhood. Neither Louis Lambert nor
the morbid and selfish Raphael give, however, the slightest indication of Balzac's most salient
characteristic both as boy and youth--the healthy joie de vivre, the gaiety and exuberant merriment,
of which his contemporaries speak constantly, and which shone out undimmed even by the wretched
health and terrible worries of the last few years of his life.

Reading these words, we can imagine poor Honore, a proud, supersensitive boy, leaning against
the wall in the ball-room, and watching enviously while agreeable nonentities basked in the
smiles he yearned for. It was a hard lot to feel within him the intuitive knowledge of his
genius; to hear the insistent voice of his vocation calling him not to be as ordinary men,
but to give his message to the world; and yet to have the miserable consciousness that no one
believed in his talents, and that there was a huge discrepancy between his ambition and his
actual attainments.

In 1820 Honore attained his majority and finished his legal studies. Unfortunately the pecuniary
misfortunes which were to haunt all this generation of the Balzac family were beginning--as
old M. de Balzac had lost money in two speculations, and now at the age of seventy-four was
put on the retired list, a change which meant a considerable diminution of income. He therefore
explained to his son--Madame Surville tells us--that M. Passez, to whom he had formerly been
of service, had in gratitude offered to take Honore into his office, and at the end of a few
years would leave him his business, when, with the additional arrangement of a rich marriage,
a prosperous future would be assured to him. Old M. de Balzac did not specify the nature of
the service which was to meet with so rich a reward; and as he was a gentleman with a distinct
liking for talking of his own doings, we may amuse ourselves by supposing that it had to do
with those Red Republican days which he was not fond of recalling.

Great was Honore's consternation at this news. In the first place, owing to M. de Balzac's
constant vapourings about the enormous wealth he would leave to his children, it is doubtful
whether Honore, who was probably not admitted to his parents' confidence, had realised up to
this time that he would have to earn his own living. Then, if it were necessary for him to
work for his bread, he now knew enough of the routine of a lawyer's office to look with horror
on the prospect of drawing up wills, deeds of sale, and marriage settlements for the rest of
his life. He never forgave the legal profession the shock and the terror he experienced at
this time, and his portraits of lawyers, with some notable exceptions, are marked by decided
animus. For instance, in "Les Francais peints par eux-memes," edited by Cunmer, the notary,
as described by Balzac, has a flat, expressionless face and wears a mask of bland silliness;
and in "Pamela Giraud" one of the characters remarks, "A lawyer who talks to himself--that
reminds me of a pastrycook who eats his own cakes." It was rather unfair to decry all lawyers,
because of the deadly fear he felt at the prospect of being forced into their ranks, as there
is little doubt that he would have shrunk with like abhorrence from any business proposed to
him. His childish longing for fame had developed and taken shape, and for him, if he lacked
genius, there was no alternative but the dragging out of a worthless and wearying existence.
Conscious of his powers, it was a time of struggle, of passionate endeavour, possibly of bewilderment;
with the one great determination standing firm in the midst of a chaos of doubt and difficulty--the
determination to persevere, and to become a writer at any cost.

He therefore, to his father's consternation, announced his objection to following a legal career,
and begged to be allowed an opportunity of proving his literary powers. Thereupon there were
lively discussions in the family; but at last the kindly M. de Balzac, apparently against his
wife's wishes, yielded to his son's earnest entreaties, and allowed him two years in which
to try his fortune as a writer. The friends of the family were loud in their exclamations of
disapproval at the folly of this proceeding, which would, they said, waste two of the best
years of Honore's life. As far as they could see, he possessed no genius; and even if he were
to succeed in a literary career, he would certainly not gain a fortune, which after all was
the principal thing to be considered. However, either the strenuousness and force of Honor's
arguments, or the softness of his father's heart, prevailed in his favour; and in spite of
the opposition of the whole of his little world, he was allowed to have his own way, and to
make trial of his powers. The rest of the family retired to Villeparisis, about sixteen miles
from Paris, and he was established in a small attic at No. 9, Rue Lesdiguieres, which was chosen
by him for its nearness to the Bibliotheque de l'Arsenal, the only public library of which
the contents were unknown to him. At the same time, appearances, always all-important in the
Balzac family, were observed, by the fiction that Honore was at Alby, on a visit to a cousin;
and in this way his literary venture was kept secret, in case it proved unsuccessful.

Having arranged this, and asserted himself to the extent of insisting that his son should be
allowed a certain amount of freedom in choosing his career, even if he fixed on a course which
seemed suicidal, old M. de Balzac appears to have retired from the direction of affairs, and
to have left his energetic wife to follow her own will about details. There was no doubt in
that lady's mind as to the methods to be pursued. Her husband had been culpably weak, and had
allowed himself to be swayed by the freak of a boy who hated work and wanted an excuse for
idleness. Honore must be brought to reason, and be taught that "the way of transgressors is
hard," and that people who refuse to take their fair share of life's labour must of necessity
suffer from deprivation of their butter, if not of their bread. Her husband was an old man,
and had lost money, and it was most exasperating that Honore should refuse a splendid chance
of securing his own future, and one which would most probably never occur again. To a good
business woman, who did not naturally share in the boundless optimistic views of M. de Balzac
for the future, the crass folly of yielding to the wishes of a boy who could not possibly know
what was best for him, was glaringly apparent. However, being a practical woman, when she had
done her duty in making the household--except the placid M. de Balzac--thoroughly uncomfortable,
and had most probably driven Honore almost wild with suppressed irritation, she embarked on
the plan of campaign which was to bring the culprit back, repentant and submissive, to the
lawyer's desk.

To accomplish this as quickly as possible, it was necessary to make him extremely uncomfortable;
so having furnished his attic with the barest necessities--a bed, a table, and a few chairs--she
gave him such a scanty allowance that he would have starved if an old woman, la mere Comin,
whom he termed his Iris, had not been told to go occasionally to look after him. In spite of
the gaiety of Balzac's letters from his garret, the hardships he went through were terrible,
and in later years he could not speak of his sufferings at this time without tears coming to
his eyes. Apparently he could not even afford to have a fire; and the attic was extremely draughty,
blasts coming from the door and window; so that in a letter to his sister he begs her, when
sending the coverlet for which he has already asked, to let him have a very old shawl, which
he can wear at night. His legs, where he feels the cold most, are wrapped in an ancient coat
made by a small tailor of Tours, who to his disgust used to alter his father's garments to
fit him, and was a dreadful bungler; but the upper half of his body is only protected by the
roof and a flannel waistcoat from the frost, and he needs a shawl badly. He also hopes for
a Dantesque cap, the kind his mother always makes for him; and this pattern of cap from the
hands of Madame de Balzac figures in the accounts of his attire later on in his life. It is
not surprising that he has a cold, and later on a terrible toothache; but it is astonishing
that, in spite of cold, hunger, and discomfort, he preserves his gaiety, pluck, and power of
making light of hardships, traits of character which were to be strikingly salient all through
his hard, fatiguing career. In spite of the misery of his surroundings, he had many compensations.
He had gained the wish of his heart, life was before him, beautiful dreams of future fame floated
in the air, and at present he had no hateful burden of debt to weigh him down. Therefore he
managed to ignore to a great extent the physical pain and discomfort he went through, as he
ignored them all through his life, except when ill health interfered with the accomplishment
of his work.

Another characteristic which might also be amazing, did we not meet it constantly in Balzac's
life, is his longing for luxury and beauty, and his extraordinary faculty for embarking in
a perfectly business-like way on wildly unreasonable schemes. With hardly enough money to provide
himself with scanty meals, he intends to economise, in order to buy a piano. "The garret is
not big enough to hold one," as he casually remarks; but this fact, which, apart from the starving
process necessary in order to obtain funds, would appear to the ordinary mind an insurmountable
obstacle to the project, does not daunt the ever-hopeful Honore.

He has taken the dimensions, he says; and if the landlord objects to the expense of moving
back the wall, he will pay the money himself, and add it to the price of the piano. Here we
recognise exactly the same Balzac whose vagrant schemes later on were listened to by his friends
with a mixture of fascination and bewilderment, and who, in utter despair about his pecuniary
circumstances at the beginning of a letter, talks airily towards the end of buying a costly
picture, or acquiring an estate in the country.

There is a curious and striking contrast in Balzac between the backwardness in the expression
of his literary genius, and the early development and crystallisation of his character and
powers of mind in other directions. Even when he realised his vocation, forsook verse, and
began to write novels, he for long gave no indication of his future powers; while, on the other
hand, at the age of twenty, his views on most points were formed, and his judgments matured.
Therefore, unlike most men, in whom, even if there be no violent changes, age gradually and
imperceptibly modifies the point of view, Balzac, a youth in his garret, differed little in
essentials from Balzac at forty-five or fifty, a man of world-wide celebrity. He never appears
to have passed through those phases of belief and unbelief --those wild enthusiasms, to be
rejected later in life--which generally fall to the lot of young men of talent. Perhaps his
reasoning and reflective powers were developed unusually early, so that he sowed his mental
wild oats in his boyhood. At any rate, in his garret in 1819 he was the same Balzac that we
know in later life. Large-minded and far-seeing--except about his business concerns--he was
from his youth a voyant, who discerned with extraordinary acuteness the trend of political
events; and with an intense respect for authority, he was yet independent, and essentially
a strong man.

This absolute stability--a fact Balzac often comments on--is very remarkable, especially as
his was a life full of variety, during which he was brought into contact with many influences.
He studied the men around him, and gauged their characters--though it must be allowed that
he did not make very good practical use of his knowledge; but owing to his strength and breadth
of vision, he was himself in all essentials immovable.

The same ambitions, desires, and opinions can be traced all through his career. The wish to
enter political life, which haunted him always, was already beginning to stir in 1819, when
he wrote at the time of the elections to a friend, M. Theodore Dablin, that he dreamt of nothing
but him and the deputies; and his last book, "L'Envers de l'Histoire contemporaine," accentuated,
if possible more than any work that had preceded it, the extreme Royalist principles which
he showed in his garret play, the ill-fated "Cromwell."

He never swerved from the two great ambitions of his life--to be loved, and to be famous. He
was faithful in his friendships; and when once he had found the woman whom he felt might be
all in all to him, and who possessed besides personal advantages the qualifications of birth
and money--for which he had always craved--no difficulties were allowed to stand in the way,
and no length of weary waiting could tire out his patience. He was constant even to his failures.
He began his literary career by writing a play, and all through his life the idea of making
his fortune by means of a successful drama recurred to him constantly. Several times he went
through that most trying of experiences, a failure which only just missed being a brilliant
success, and once this affected him so much that he became seriously ill; but, with his usual
spirit and courage, he tried again and again. His friend Theophile Gautier, writing of him
in La Presse of September 30th, 1843, after the failure of "Pamela Giraud," said truly that
Balzac intended to go on writing plays, even if he had to get through a hundred acts before
he could find his proper form.

One part of Balzac never grew up--he was all his life the "child-man" his sister calls him.
After nights without sleep he would come out of his solitude with laughter, joy, and excitement
to show a new masterpiece; and this was always more wonderful than anything which had preceded
it. He was more of a child than his nieces, Madame Surville tells us: "laughed at puns, envied
the lucky being who had the 'gift' of making them, tried to do so himself, and failed, saying
regretfully, 'No, that doesn't make a pun.' He used to cite with satisfaction the only two
he had ever made, 'and not much of a success either,' he avowed in all humility, 'for I didn't
know I was making them,' and we even suspected him of embellishing them afterwards."[*] He
was delightfully simple, even to the end of his life. In 1849 he wrote from Russia, where he
was confined to his room with illness, to describe minutely a beautiful new dressing-gown in
which he marched about the room like a sultan, and was possessed with one of those delightful
joys which we only have at eighteen. "I am writing to you now in my termolana,"[+] he adds
for the satisfaction of his correspondent.

[+] "H. de Balzac--Correspondance," vol. ii. P. 418.

We must now return to Honore in his attic, where, as in later years, he drank much coffee,
and was unable to resist the passion for fruit which was always his one gourmandise. He records
one day that he has eaten two melons, and must pay for the extravagance with a diet of dry
bread and nuts, but contemplates further starvation to pay for a seat to see Talma in "Cinna."

He writes to his sister: "I feel to-day that riches do not make happiness, and that the time
I shall pass here will be to me a source of pleasant memories. To live according to my fancy;
to work as I wish and in my own way; to do nothing if I wish it; to dream of a beautiful future;
to think of you and to know you are happy; to have as ladylove the Julie of Rousseau; to have
La Fontaine and Moliere as friends, Racine for a master, and Pere-Lachaise to walk to,--oh!
if it would only last always."[*]

[*] "Correspondance," vol. i.

Pere-Lachaise was a favourite resort when he was not working very hard; and it was from there
that he obtained his finest inspirations, and decided that, of all the feelings of the soul,
sorrow is the most difficult to express, because of its simplicity. Curiously enough, he abandoned
the Jardin des Plantes because he thought it melancholy, and apparently found his reflections
among the tombs more cheerful. He decided that the only beautiful epitaphs are single names--such
as La Fontaine, Massena, Moliere, "which tell all, and make one dream."

When he returned home to his garret, fresh interests awaited him.

Occasionally on Sundays he would go to a friend's house, ostensibly to play cards--a pastime
which he hated. He generally, however, managed to escape from the eye of his hostess; and comfortably
ensconced in a window behind thick curtains, or hidden behind a high armchair, he would pour
into the ear of a congenial companion some of the thoughts which surged through his impetuous
brain. All his life he needed this outlet after concentrated mental labour; and sometimes in
a friend's drawing-room, if he knew himself to be surrounded only by intimates, he would give
full vent to his conversational powers. On these occasions he would carry his hearers away
with him, often against their better judgment, by his eloquence and verve; would send them
into fits of hearty laughter by his sallies; his store of droll anecdotes, his jollity and
gaiety; and would display his consummate gifts as a dramatic raconteur. Later in life, after
he had raised the enmity of a large section of the writing world, and knew that there were
many watching eagerly to immortalise in print--with gay malice and wit on the surface, and
bitter spite and hatred below--the heedless and possibly arrogant words their enemy had uttered
in moments of excitement and expansion, he grew cautious; and sometimes because of this, and
sometimes because he was collecting material for his work, he would often be silent in general
society. To the end, however, he loved a tete-a-tete with a sympathetic listener--one, it must
be conceded, who would be content, except for the occasional comment, to remain himself in
the background, as the great man wanted a safety-valve for his own impetuous thoughts, and
did not generally care to hear the paler, less interesting impressions of his companion.

With what longing, in the midst of his harassing life in Paris, he would look back to the charming
long fireside chats he had had with Madame Hanska; and as the time to meet her again came nearer,
with what satisfaction special tit-bits of gossip were reserved to be talked over and explained
during the long evenings at Wierzchownia! How he loved to rush in to his sister with the latest
news of the personages of his novels, as well as with brilliant plans to improve his general
prospects; and with what enthusiasm he poured out to Theophile Gautier, or even to Leon Gozlan,
his confidences of all sorts! Plans, absurd and impossible, but worked out with a business-like
arrangement of detail which, when mingled with somnambulists and magnetisers, had a weird yet
apparently fascinating effect on his hearers; magnificent diatribes against the wickedness
of his special enemies, journalists, editors, and the Press in general; strange fancies to
do with the world where Eugenie Grandet or Le Pere Goriot had their dwelling,--all these ideas,
opinions, and feelings came from his lips with an eloquence, a force, and a life which were
all convincing. Yet by a strange anomaly, which is sometimes seen in talkative and apparently
unreserved people, Balzac in reality revealed very little of himself--in fact, we may often
suspect him of using a flow of apparently spontaneous words as a screen to mask some hidden
feeling. Therefore, when people who had considered themselves his intimate friends tried to
write about him after his death, they found that they really knew little of the essentials
of the man, and could only string together amusing anecdotes, proving him to have been eccentric,
amusing, and essentially bon camarade, but giving little idea of his real personality and genius.

Even in these early days at the card-parties--where sometimes the hostess noticed the defection
of the two young guests, and, holding a card in each delicate hand, would beckon them to take
their place at the game, which they would do with humble and discomfited faces, like schoolboys
surprised at a forbidden amusement--M. de Petigny, Balzac's companion, must have been struck
by his openness in some respects and the absolute mystery with which he surrounded himself
in others. Where he lived, what he was doing, what his life was like--all these facts were
hidden from his companion, till he revealed himself at last, on the verge of his hoped-for
triumph. But, on the other hand, the sentiments and impressions of which M. de Petigny read
afterwards in Balzac's books seemed to him only a pale, distant echo of the rich and vivid
expressions which fell from his lips in these intimate talks. Magnetism, in which he had a
strong faith all his life, was exercising his thoughts greatly. It was "the irresistible ascendency
of mind over matter, of a strong and immovable will over a soul open to all impressions."[*]
Before long he would have mastered its secrets, and would be able to compel every man to obey
him and every woman to love him. He had already, he announced, begun to occupy his fixed position
in life, and was on the threshold of a millennium.

[*] Article by M. Jules de Petigny.

Balzac's glimpses of society were, however, rare, and ceased altogether during the last few
months of his stay in the Rue Lesdiguieres.

There was another side to the picture, and perhaps in this description, written in 1830, Balzac
has slightly antedated his joy in his creative powers, and describes more correctly his feelings
when he wrote "Les Chouans," "La Maison du Chat-qui-pelote," and the "Peau de Chagrin" itself,
than those of this earlier period of his life, when the difficulties of expressing himself
often seemed insurmountable, and the hiatus between his ideas and the form in which to clothe
them was almost impossible to bridge over.

Writing did not at any time come easily to him, and "Stella" and "Coqsigrue," his first novels,
were never finished; while a comedy, "Les Deux Philosophes," was also abandoned in despair.
Next he set to work at "Cromwell," a tragedy in five acts, which was to be his passport to
fame. At this play he laboured for months, shutting himself up completely, and loving his self-imposed
slavery--though his want of faculty for versification, and the intense difficulty he experienced
in finding words for the ideas which crowded into his imaginative brain were decided drawbacks.
While engaged on this work, he may indeed have experienced some of the feelings he describes
in the "Peau de Chagrin," quoted above; for, curiously enough, "Cromwell," his first finished
production, was the only one of his early works about which he was deceived, and which he imagined
to be a chef d'oeuvre. It was well he had this happy faith to sustain him, as, according to
the account of M. Jules de Petigny, the circumstances under which the play was composed must,
to put the matter mildly, have been distinctly depressing.

This gentleman says: "I entered a narrow garret, furnished with a bottomless chair, a rickety
table and a miserable pallet bed, with two dirty curtains half drawn round it. On the table
were an inkstand, a big copybook scribbled all over, a jug of lemonade, a glass, and a morsel
of bread. The heat in this wretched hole was stifling, and one breathed a mephitic air which
would have given cholera, if cholera had then been invented!" Balzac was in bed, with a cotton
cap of problematic colour on his head. "You see," he said, "the abode I have not left except
once for two months--the evening when you met me. During all this time I have not got up from
the bed where I work at the great work, for the sake of which I have condemned myself to this
hermit's life, and which happily I have just finished, for my powers have come to an end."
It must have been during these last months in his garret, when he neglected everything for
his projected masterpiece, that, covered with vermin from the dirt of his room, he would creep
out in the evening to buy a candle, which, as he possessed no candlestick, he would put in
an empty bottle.

The almost insane ardour for and absorption in his work, which were his salient characteristics,
had already possession of him; and we see that he laboured as passionately now for fame and
for love of his art, as he did later on, when the struggle to free himself from debt, and to
gain a home and womanly companionship were additional incentives to effort. At the time of
which M. de Petigny speaks, however, his troubles appeared to be over, as the masterpiece for
which he had suffered so much was completed; and joyfully confident that triumph awaited him,
Honore took it home with him to Villeparisis at the end of April, 1820. He was so certain,
poor fellow, of success, that he had specially begged that among those invited to the reading
of the tragedy, should be the insulting person who told his father fifteen months before, that
he was fit for nothing but a post as copying clerk.

                              CHAPTER IV

                             1820 - 1828

  Reading of "Cromwell"--Balzac is obliged to live at home
  --Unhappiness--Writes romantic novels--Friendship with Madame
  de Berny--Starts in Paris as publisher and afterwards as printer
  --Impending bankruptcy only prevented by help from his parents
  and Madame de Berny.

Evidently Balzac's happy faith in the beauty of "Cromwell" had impressed his parents, as, apparently
without having seen the play, they had assembled a large concourse of friends for the reading;
and between happy pride in his boy's genius, and satisfaction at his own acuteness in discerning
it, old M. de Balzac was no doubt nearly as joyous as Honore himself. The Balzac family were
prepared for triumph, the friends were amused or incredulous, and the solemn trial began.[*]
The tragedy, strongly Royalist in principles, opens, according to the plot as given by Balzac
in a letter to his sister,[+] with the entrance of Queen Henrietta Maria into Westminster.
She is utterly exhausted, and, disguised in humble garments, has returned from taking her children
for safety into Holland, and from begging for the help of the King of France. Strafford, in
tears, tells her of late events, and of the King's imprisonment and future trial; but during
this conversation Cromwell and Ireton enter, and the Queen, in terror, hides behind a tomb,
till, horrified at the discussion as to whether or not the King shall be put to death, she
comes out, and, as Balzac remarks, "makes them a famous discourse." Act II. sounds a little
dull, though no doubt it is highly instructive, as a great part of it is taken up with a monologue
by the King detailing the events of his past reign. Later on Charles, instead of keeping Cromwell's
son who has fallen into his hands, as a hostage for his own life, gives him up to his father
without condition; but Cromwell, unmoved by this generosity, still plots for his King's death.
The fifth Act, which Balzac remarks is the most difficult of all, opens with a scene in which
the King tells the Queen his last wishes, which Balzac interpolates with (Quelle scene!); then
Strafford informs the King of his condemnation (Quelle scene!); the King and Queen say good-bye
--(Quelle scene!) again; and the play ends with the Queen vowing eternal vengeance upon England,
declaring that enemies will rise everywhere against her, and that one day France will fight
against her, conquer her, and crush her.

[*] The original MS., beautifully written out, and tied with faded
    blue ribbon, is in the possession of the Vicomte de Spoelberch
    de Lovenjoul.

[+] "Honore de Balzac--Correspondance," vol. i, p. 28.

Honore began his reading with the utmost enthusiasm, modulating his sonorous voice to suit
the different characters, and even contriving for a time to impart by his expressive reading
a fictitious interest to the dull, tedious tragedy. Gradually, however, the feeling of disappointment
and boredom among his audience communicated itself to him. He lost confidence; his beautiful
reading began to decline in pathos and interest; and when at last he finished, and, glancing
at the downcast faces round him, found that even Laure could not look up at him with a smile
of congratulation, he felt a chill at his heart, and knew that he had not triumphed after all.
Nevertheless, he very naturally rebelled against the strongly expressed adverse judgment of
his enemy of the copying-clerk proposal, and begged to be allowed to appeal to a competent
and impartial critic. To this request his father assented, and M. Surville, who was now engaged
to Laure, proposed that M. Andrieux, of the Academie Francaise, formerly his own master at
the Ecole Polytechnique, should be asked to give an opinion. Honore, his sister says, "accepted
this literary elder as sovereign judge," no doubt hoping against hope that a really cultured
man would see the beauties which were unfortunately hidden from the eyes of the unintellectual
inhabitants of Villeparisis. However, the verdict of M. Andrieux was, if possible, more crushing
than any of the events which had preceded it. In the honest opinion of this expert, the author
of "Cromwell" ought to do anything, no matter what, except literature.

Honore had asked for an impartial judgment, and had promised to abide by it. His discomfiture
and sense of failure ought therefore to have been complete. Genius does not, however, follow
the ordinary road; and with a mixture of pluck, confidence in himself, and pride which always
characterised him, Honore did not allow that he was beaten, and would not show the feelings
of grief and disappointment which must have filled his heart. "Tragedies are not my line"--that
is all he said; and if he had been allowed to follow his own bent, he would at once have returned
to his garret, and have begun to write again with unabated ardour.

Naturally, however, the Balzac family refused to allow him to continue the course of senseless
folly which was already beginning to ruin his health. Madame de Balzac was specially strong
on this point; and though he had only been allowed fifteen months, instead of the two years
promised for his trial, she insisted that he should come home at once, and remain under the
maternal eye. Indeed, this seemed quite necessary, after the privations he had gone through.
His sufferings never made him thin at any period of his life; but now his face was pale and
his eyes hollow, and his lifelong friend, Dr. Nacquart, sent him at once to recruit in the
air of his native Touraine.

After this followed a time of bitter trial for poor Honore. His sister Laure married M. Surville
in May, 1820, about a month after his return home, and went to live at Bayeux, so that he was
deprived of her congenial companionship; and, in spite of his fun and buoyancy, his letters
to her show his extreme wretchedness. Years afterwards he told the Duchesse d'Abrantes that
the cruel weight of compulsion under which he was crushed till 1822 made his struggles for
existence, when once he was free, seem comparatively light. Continually worried by his nervous,
irritable mother, deprived of independence, of leisure, of quiet, he saw his dreams of future
fame vanish like smoke, and the hated lawyer's office become a certainty, if he failed to make
money by writing. In deadly fear of this, and with the paralysing consciousness that his present
circumstances were peculiarly unpropitious as a literary education, he rebelled against the
hard fate which denied him opportunity to work for fame. "Laure, Laure," he cries at this time,
"my two only and immense desires--to be loved and to be celebrated--will they ever be satisfied?"

Whatever his aspirations might be, it was necessary that he should do something to support
himself, as his parents firmly refused to grant him the 1,500 francs--about sixty pounds--a
year for which he begged, to enable him to live in Paris and to carry out his vocation. He
was therefore obliged to write at his home at Villeparisis in the midst of distractions and
discouragements. In these unpropitious circumstances he produced in five years--with different
collaborators, whose names are now rescued from absolute oblivion by their transitory connection
with him--eight novels in thirty-one volumes. That he managed to find a publisher for most
of his novels, and to make forty pounds, sixty pounds, or eighty pounds out of each, is according
to his sister, a remarkable proof of his strength of will, and also of his power of fascination.
The payment generally took the form of a bill payable at some distant period--a form of receiving
money which does not seem very satisfying; but at any rate Balzac could prove to his family
that he was earning something, and was himself cheered by his small successes. We can imagine
his feverish anxiety, and the cunning with which he would exert every wile to induce the publisher--himself
a struggling man--to accept his wares, when he knew that a refusal would mean mingled scoffs
and lamentations at home, and possibly a menace that not much longer leisure would be allowed
him for idling. There is pathos in the fate of one whose genius is unrecognised till his day
on earth is over, but far harder seems the lot of the man who longs and struggles, feeling
that the power is in him, and who yet, by some strange gulf between thought and expression,
can only produce what he knows to be worthless. It speaks much for Balzac's courage, patience,
and determination, or perhaps for the intuitive force of a genius which refused to be denied
outlet, that he struggled through this weary time, and in spite of opposition kept to his fixed
purpose of becoming a writer.

These early works--"L'Heritiere de Birague," "Jean-Louis," "Le Centenaire," "Le Vicaire des
Ardennes," "La Derniere Fee," "Wann Chlore," and others, published in 1822 and the three following
years --were written under the pseudonyms of Lord R'hoone, Viellergle, and Horace de Saint-Aubin,
and are generally wild tales of adventure in the style of Mrs. Radcliffe. Though occasionally
the reader comes across a paragraph faintly reminiscent of the Balzac of later years, these
youthful attempts are certainly not worthy of the great man who wrote them, and he consistently
refused to acknowledge their authorship. The two first, "L'Heritiere de Birague" and "Jean-Louis,"
were written with the collaboration of M. Auguste le Poitevin de l'Egreville, who took the
name of Viellergle, while Balzac adopted that of Lord R'hoone, an anagram of Honore, so that
these two novels are signed with both pseudonyms.[*] It is amusing to find that the sage Honore,
in 1820, prudently discourages a passing fancy on the part of his sister Laurence for his collaborator,
by remarking that writers are very bad partis, though he hastens to add that he only means
this from a pecuniary point of view! Laure, at Bayeux, is made useful as an amateur advertising
agent, and is carefully told that, though she is to talk about the novels a great deal, she
is never to lend her copies to any one, because people must buy the books to read them. "L'Heritiere"
brought in about thirty-two pounds, and "Jean-Louis" fifty-three pounds, unfortunately both
in bills at long date; but it was the first money Honore had ever earned, and he was naturally
excited. However, with "La Derniere Fee" he was not so fortunate, as both versions--one of
which appeared in 1823 and the other in 1824--were published at his own cost. Nevertheless,
he has no illusions about the worth of his books, "L'Heritiere" being, he says, a "veritable
cochonnerie litteraire," while "Jean-Louis" has "several rather funny jokes, and some not bad
attempts at character, but a detestable plot."

[*] See "Une Page perdue de Honore de Balzac," by the Vicomte de
    Spoelberch de Lovenjoul.

In the same year, 1822, he writes one of his droll, beseeching letters to beg M. and Mme. Surville
to help him out of a great difficulty, and to write one volume of "Le Vicaire des Ardennes"
while he writes the other, and afterwards fits the two together. The matter is most important,
as he has promised Pollet to have two novels, "Le Vicaire" and "Le Savant"--the latter we never
hear of again--ready by October 1st. It is necessary to be specially quick about "Le Vicaire,"
partly because Auguste, his collaborator, is writing a novel of the same name, and Balzac's
production must come out first, and also for the joyful reason that he will actually receive
twenty-four pounds in ready money for the two books, the further fifty-six pounds following
in bills payable at eight months. What do the Survilles think about it? He throws himself on
their generosity, though he is afraid Laure will never manage to write sixty pages of a novel
every day. Apparently the Survilles, or at least M. Surville--for it is certain that the devoted
Laure would have worked herself to death to help Honore--did not see their way to proceeding
at this rate of composition, as the next letter from Balzac, written on August 20th, is full
of reproaches because the manuscript has not been at once returned to him, that he may go on
with it himself. Perhaps this want of help prevented the carrying out of the contract, and
was the reason that the world has not been enriched by the appearance of "Le Savant." Honore,
however, judging by his next letter, did not bear malice: he was accustomed to make continual
requests, reasonable and sometimes very unreasonable, to his family; and the large good-humour
which was one of the foundations of his robust character, prevented him from showing any irritation
when they were refused.

From 1821 to 1824 he wrote thirty-one volumes, and it is an extraordinary proof of his versatility,
that in 1824, in the midst of the production of these romantic novels, he published a pamphlet
entitled "Du Droit d'Ainesse" which argues with singular force, logic, and erudition against
the revolutionary and Napoleonic theories on the division of property; and a small volume entitled
"Histoire impartiale des Jesuites," which is an impassioned defence of religion and the monarchy.
"The Bourbons are the preservers of the sublime religion of Christ, and they have never betrayed
the trust which confided Christianity to them," he cries. No one reading these political essays
would think it likely that they were the work of the romantic writer of "La Derniere Fee" or
"Argow the Pirate," which were employing Balzac's pen at the same time.

Young men are often very severe critics of the doings of their family; and Balzac, cursed with
the sensitiveness of genius, and smarting under the bitter disappointment of disillusionment
and of thwarted and compressed powers, was not likely to be an indulgent critic; but making
due allowance for these facts, it does not appear that his home was a particularly comfortable
place at this time. Old M. de Balzac was as placid as an Egyptian pyramid and perennially cheerful;
but the restless Madame de Balzac was now following in the footsteps of her nervous mother
and becoming a malade imaginaire. This did not add to the comfort of her family, while the
small excitements she roused perpetually were peculiarly trying to her eldest son, who was
himself not of a placid nature.

However, there were compensations, though the discreet Honore does not mention these in his
letters to Laure, as in 1821 his friendship with Madame de Berny began, and only ceased in
1836 with her death, which in spite of his affection for Madame Hanska, was a lifelong sorrow
to him. One of Honore's home duties was to act as tutor to his younger brother Henry--the spoilt
child of the family--who, owing to supposed delicacy, was educated at home; and as the Bernys
lived near Villeparisis, it was arranged that he should at the same time give lessons to one
of M. and Madame de Berny's boys. This may have helped to bring about the intimacy between
the two houses, and Honore was struck by Madame de Berny's patience and sweetness to a morose
husband many years older than herself. Later on, the Bernys left the neighbourhood of Villeparisis,
and divided their time between the village of Saint-Firmin, near Chantilly, and Paris; and
Balzac occasionally paid them visits in the country, and saw Madame de Berny continually in
Paris. She was twenty-two years older than Honore, and no doubt supplied the element of motherliness
which was conspicuously absent in Madame de Balzac.

She was a gentle and pathetic figure, the woman who understood Balzac as Madame Hanska did
not; who made light of her troubles and sufferings for fear of grieving him in the midst of
his own struggles; and who, while performing her duties conscientiously as devoted wife and
mother, for twelve years gave up two hours every day to his society. She lent him money, interceded
with his parents on his behalf, corrected his proofs, acted as a severe and candid though sympathetic
critic, and above all cheered and encouraged him, and prevented him from committing suicide
in his dark days of distress. On the other hand, the friendship of a man like Balzac must have
been of absorbing interest to a woman of great delicacy of feeling, and evidently considerable
literary powers, whose surroundings were uncongenial; and his warm and enduring affection helped
her to tide over many of the troubles of a sad life.

Recent researches have discovered several interesting facts about the origin of the woman to
whom may be ascribed the merit of "creating" the writer who was destined to exercise so great
an influence on his own and succeeding generations.[*] Curiously enough, Louise Antoinette
Laure Hinner, destined at the age of fifteen years and ten months to become Madame de Berny,
was, like Madame Hanska, a foreigner, being the daughter of Joseph Hinner, a German musician,
who was brought by Turgot to France. Here he became harpist to Marie Antoinette, and married
Madame Quelpee de Laborde, one of the Queen's ladies in waiting. Two years later, on May 23rd,
1777, the future Madame de Berny came into the world, and made her debut with a great flourish
of trumpets, Louis XVI. and Marie Antoinette, represented by the Duc de Fronsac and Laure Auguste
de Fitz-James, Princesse de Chimay, being her god-parents. When in 1784 her father died, her
mother married the Chevalier de Jarjayes, one of Marie Antoinette's most loyal adherents during
the Revolution. It was he who conceived the project of carrying off Louis XVII. from the Temple,
and who was entrusted with the precious duty of carrying the seal, ring, and hair belonging
to the Royal Family to the exiled Monsieur and Comte d'Artois.[*]

[*] See "Balzac, Imprimeur," in "La Jeunesse de Balzac," by MM.
    Hanotaux et Vicaire.

We can easily see whence Balzac derived his strong Royalist principles --how from boyhood the
lessons taught him by his masters, M. Lepitre and M. Guillonnet de Merville, would be insisted
on, only with much greater effect and insistence, by this charming woman of the world. Her
mother, still living, had passed her time in the disturbed and exciting atmosphere of plots
and counterplots; and she herself could tell him story after story of heartrending tragedies
and of hairbreadth escapes, which had happened to her own relations and friends. From her he
acquired those aristocratic longings which always characterised him, and through her influence
he made acquaintance with several people of high position and importance, and thus was enabled
to make an occasional appearance in the beau-monde of Paris.

Her portrait gives the idea of an elegant rather than pretty woman, with a long neck, sloping
shoulders, black curls on the temples, at each side of a high forehead, and large, languishing
dark eyes, under pencilled eyebrows. The oval face has a character of gentle melancholy, and
there is something subdued and suffering in the whole expression which invites our pity. She
wears in the portrait an Empire dress, confined under the arms by a yellow ribbon.

"La dilecta," as Balzac calls her, cannot have been a very happy woman. Of her nine children,
watched with the most tender solicitude, only four lived to grow up; and of these her favourite
son, "beautiful as the day, like her tender and spiritual, like her full of noble sentiments,"
as Balzac says, died the year before her; and only an insane daughter and a wild, unsatisfactory
son survived her. This terrible blow broke her heart, and she shut herself up and refused to
see even Balzac during the last year of her life. The end must at any rate have been peaceful,
as, in order to prolong her existence as much as possible, it had been found necessary to separate
her from the irritable husband with whose vagaries she had borne patiently during thirty tedious
years; but perhaps she was sorry in the end that this was necessary. Madame de Mortsauf, in
the "Lys dans la Vallee," is intended to be a portrait of her, though Balzac says that he has
only managed to give a faint reflection of her perfections. However this may be, Henriette
de Mortsauf is a charming and ethereal creation, and from her we can understand the fascination
Madame de Berny exerted over Balzac, and can realise that, as he says to Madame Hanska, her
loss can never be made up to him. It is possible also to sympathise with the feeling, perhaps
unacknowledged even to himself, which peeps out in a letter to Madame Hanska in 1840.[*] In
this he reproaches his correspondent for her littleness in not writing to him because he cannot
answer her letters quickly, and tells her that he has lately been in such straits that he has
not been able to pay for franking his letters, and has several times eaten a roll on the Boulevards
for his dinner. He goes on: "Ah! I implore you, do not make comparisons between yourself and
Madame de Berny. She was of infinite goodness and of absolute devotion; she was what she was.
You are complete on your side as she on hers. One never compares two great things. They are
what they are." Certainly Balzac never found a second Madame de Berny.

[*] "Lettres a L'Etrangere."

From 1822 to 1824 we know little of Balzac's history, except that he passed the time at home,
and was presumably working hard at his romantic novels; but in 1824 a change came, one no doubt
hailed at the time with eager delight, though it proved unfortunately to be the foundation
of all his subsequent misfortunes.

When he went up to Paris to make arrangements for publishing his novels, he stayed in the old
lodgings of his family in the Rue du Roi Dore, and here he often met a friend, M. d'Assonvillez,
to whom he confided his fear of being forced into an occupation distasteful to him. M. d'Assonvillez
was sympathetic, advised him to seek for a business which would make him independent, and,
carried away by Honore's powers of persuasion and eloquence, actually promised to proved the
necessary funds. We can imagine Balzac's joy at this offer, and the enthusiasm with which he
would take up his abode in Paris, and feel that he was about to earn his living, nay, more,
that he would no doubt become enormously rich, and would then have leisure to give up his time
to literature. What however decided him to become first publisher and then printer we do not
know. He started his publishing campaign with the idea of bringing out compact editions of
the complete works of different authors in one volume, and began with Moliere and La Fontaine,
carrying on the two publications at the same time, for fear of competition if his secret should
be discovered. The idea, which had already been thought of by Urbain Canel, was a good one;
but unfortunately Balzac was not able to obtain support from the trade, and had not sufficient
capital for advertising. Therefore by the end of the year not twenty copies were sold, and
he lost 15,000 francs on this affair alone. Consequently, in order to save the rent of the
warehouse in which the books were stored, he was obliged to part with all the precious compact
editions for the price by the weight of the paper on which they were printed.

Matters now looked very black, as Balzac owed about 70,000 francs; but M. d'Assonvillez was
evidently much impressed by his business capacity, and was naturally anxious to be repaid the
money he had lent. He therefore introduced Honore to a relation who was making a large fortune
by his printing-press; and Balzac, full of enthusiasm, dreamt of becoming a second Richardson,
and of combining the occupations of author and printer. His father was persuaded to provide
the necessary funds, and handed him over 30,000 francs--about 1,200 pounds--with which to start
the enterprise. In August, 1826, Balzac began again joyously, first by himself and afterwards
with a partner named Barbier, whom he had noticed as foreman in one of the printing-offices
to which he had taken his novels. Unfortunately a printing-licence cost 15,000 francs in the
time of Charles X.; and when this had been paid, Barbier had received a bonus of 12,000 francs,
and 15,000 francs had been spent on the necessary materials, there remained very little capital
with which to meet the current expenses of the undertaking. Nevertheless, the young partners
started full of hope, having bought from Laurent for 30,000 francs the premises at No. 7, Rue
des Marais Saint-Germain, now the Rue Visconti, a street so narrow that two vehicles cannot
pass in it. A wooden staircase with an iron handrail led from a dark passage to the large barrack-like
hall they occupied: an abode which Balzac tried to beautify, possibly for Madame de Berny's
visits, by hangings of blue calico.

There Balzac developed quickly. He learnt the struggle of a business life, the duel between
man and man, through which thousands pass without gaining anything except business acuteness,
but which introduced the great psychologist to hundreds of new types, and showed to his keen,
observant eyes man, not in society or domesticity, but in undress, fighting for life itself,
or for all that makes life worth living. In the Rue de Lesdiguieres he had struggled with himself,
striving in cold and hunger to gain the mastery of his art. Here he battled with others; and
since, except on paper, he never possessed business capacity, he failed and went under; but
by his defeat he paved the way to future triumph. He passed through an experience possibly
unique in the career of a man of letters, one which imparts the peculiar flavour of business,
money, and affairs to his books, and which fixed on him for all his days the impression of
restless, passionate, thronging humanity which he pictures in his books. The abyss between
his early romantic novels and such a book as the "Peau de Chagrin" is immeasurable, and cannot
be altogether accounted for by any teaching, however valuable, or even by the strong influence
which intercourse with Madame de Berny exercised. Something else definite must have happened
to him--some great opening out and development, which caused a sudden appearance on the surface
of hitherto latent, unworkable powers. This forcing-process took place at his first contact
with the war of life; and though he bore the scars of the encounter as long as he lived, he
grew by its clash, ferment, and disaster to his full stature. In "La Maison du Chat-qui-pelote,"
"Illusions Perdues," and "Cesar Birotteau" he gives different phases of this life, spent partly
in the printer's office and partly in the streets, rushing anxiously from place to place and
from person to person, trying vainly by interviews to avert the impending ruin.

Matters seemed, however, quite hopeless; but when, towards the end of 1827, an opportunity
occurred of becoming possessed of a type-foundry, the partners, perhaps with the desperation
of despair, did not hesitate to avail themselves of it. This new acquisition naturally only
appeared likely to precipitate the catastrophe, and Barbier prepared to leave the sinking ship.
At this juncture Madame de Berny came forward with substantial help, and allowed her name to
appear as partner in his place. However, even this assistance did not long avert disaster--bankruptcy
was impending, and Madame de Berny and Laure implored Madame de Balzac to prevent this. The
latter, wishing at all costs to keep the matter from the ears of her husband, now a very old
man and failing in health, begged a cousin, M. Sedillot, to come forward, and at least to save
the honour of the family. M. Sedillot, who appears to have been a good man of business, at
once set gallantly to work to disentangle the embroglio, and to free Honore from its meshes.
As a result of his efforts, the printing-press was sold to M. Laurent, and the type-foundry
became the property of the De Bernys, under whom it was highly successful. At the same time,
to save Honore from disgrace, Madame de Balzac lent 37,000 francs and Madame de Berny 45,000,
the latter sum being paid back in full by Balzac in 1836, the year of Madame de Berny's death.
"Without her I should be dead," he tells Madame Hanska. He was most anxious not to sell the
type-foundry, and his parents have been severely criticised for their refusal to provide further
funds for the purpose of carrying on that and the printing-office.

This blame seems a little unfair. It is true that, after Balzac had been obliged, to his intense
grief, to part with both businesses at a loss, a fortune was made out of the type-foundry alone.
But the Balzacs had lost money, and had their other children to provide for; while Honore,
though well equipped with hope, enthusiasm, and belief in himself, had hitherto failed to justify
a trust in his business capacities. In fact, if his parents had been endowed with prophetic
eyesight, and had been enabled to take a bird's-eye view of their celebrated son's future enterprises,
which were always, according to his own account, destined to fail only by some unfortunate
slip at the last, it seems doubtful whether they would have been wise to alter the course they
adopted.

                              CHAPTER V

                             1828 - 1829

  Life in the Rue de Tournon--Privations and despair--Friendships
  --Auguste Borget--Madame Carraud--The Duchesse d'Abrantes--George
  Sand, etc.--Balzac writes "La Peau de Chagrin" and the
  "Physiologie du Marriage"--His right to be entitled "De Balzac."

In September, 1828, before the final winding up of affairs, Balzac had fled from Paris, and
had gone to spend three weeks with his friends the Pommereuls in Brittany. There he began to
write "Les Chouans," the first novel to which he signed his name. With his usual hopefulness,
dreams of future fame filled his brain; and in spite of his misfortunes, his relief at having
obtained temporary escape from his difficulties and freedom to pursue his literary career was
so great, that his jolly laugh often resounded in the old chateau of Fougeres. It was certainly
a remarkable case of buoyancy of temperament, as the circumstances in which he found himself
were distinctly discouraging. He was now twenty-nine years old; he owed about 100,000 francs,
and was utterly penniless; while his reputation for commercial capacity had been completely
destroyed. His most pressing liabilities had been paid by his mother, who was all his life
one of his principal creditors; and he was now firmly under the yoke of that heavy burden of
debt which was destined never again to be lifted from his shoulders. Once again, as they had
done nine years before, his parents cast off all responsibility for their unsatisfactory son.
They had saved the family honour, which would have been compromised by his bankruptcy; but
they felt that whether he lived or starved was his own affair. His position was infinitely
worse than it had been in those early days in the Rue Lesdiguieres, when submission would have
led to reinstatement in favour. He was now, as he graphically expressed it, "thrown into" the
Rue de Tournon,[*] and apparently no provision was made for his wants. His parents, who had
moved from Villeparisis to Versailles the year before, in order to be near Madame Surville,
limited their interference in his affairs to severe criticism on his want of respect in not
coming to see his family, and righteous wrath at his extravagance in hanging his room with
blue calico. These reproaches he parried with the defence that he had no money to pay omnibus
fares, and could not even write often because of the expense of postage; while anent the muslin,
he stated that he possessed it before his failure, as La Touche and he had nailed it up to
hide the frightful paper on the walls of the printing-office. Uncrushed by the scathing comments
on his attempts at decoration, curious though characteristic efforts on the part of a starving
man, he writes to his sister a few days later: "Ah, Laure, if you did but know how passionately
I desire (but, hush! keep the secret) two blue screens embroidered in black (silence ever!)."[+]
He reopens his letter about the screens to answer one from Madame Surville, written evidently
at the instigation of M. and Mme. de Balzac, to blame his supposed idleness; and the poor fellow,
to whom this fault at least could at no time be justly imputed, asks her if he is not already
unhappy enough, and tells her pathetically how he suffers from these unjust suspicions, and
that he can never be happy till he is dead. In the end, however, he returns with childlike
persistence to the screens as a panacea for all his ills, and finishes with: "But my screens--I
want them more than ever, for a little joy in the midst of torment!"

[*] He says himself "Rue Cassini," but this is a mistake.

[+] "Correspondance," vol. i. p. 82.

He had now apparently completely gone under, like many another promising young man of whom
great things are expected; and he had in his pride and misery hidden himself from every one,
except a few intimate friends. With the death on June 19, 1829, of his father, whose last days
were saddened by the knowledge of his son's disaster, the world was poorer by one castle in
the air the less; for besides his natural sorrow at the death of the kind old man, who was
so much softer than his wife, the dream of becoming a millionaire by means of the Tontine capital
faded way, like all poor Honore's other visions. Even Balzac's buoyancy was not always proof
against the depressing influence of two or three days of starvation, and he sometimes descended
to the lowest depths, and groped in those dark places from which death seems the only escape.

Looking back years afterwards at this terrible time, he can find only one reason why he did
not put an end to himself, and that was the existence of Madame de Berny: "She was a mother,
a woman friend, a family, a man friend, an adviser," he cries enthusiastically; "she made the
writer, she consoled the young man, she formed his taste, she cried like a sister, she laughed,
she came every day, like a merciful slumber, to send sorrow to sleep."[*] Certainly there was
no woman on earth to whom Balzac owed so deep a debt of gratitude, and certainly also he joyfully
acknowledged his obligations. "Every day with her was a fete," he said to Madame Hanska long
afterwards.

[*] "Lettres a l'Etrangere."

About this time another friendship was beginning, which, though slower in growth and not so
passionate in character, was as faithful, and was only terminated by Balzac's death. When Madame
Surville went to live at Versailles, she was delighted to find that an old schoolfellow, Madame
Carraud, was settled there, her husband holding the post of director of the military school
at Saint-Cyr. Honore had known Madame Carraud since 1819; but he first became intimate with
her and her husband in 1826, and later he was their constant guest at Angouleme, where Commandant
Carraud was in charge of the Government powder-works, or at Frapesle in Berry, where Madame
Carraud had a country house. She was a woman of much intelligence and ambition, high-principled
and possessing much common sense. Balzac occasionally complained that she was a little wanting
in softness; but, nevertheless, he invariably turned to her for comfort in the vicissitudes
of his more passionate attachments. He was also much attached to M. Carraud, a man of great
scientific attainments and a good husband, but, to his wife's despair, utterly lacking in energy
and ambition; so that instead of taking the position to which by his abilities he was entitled,
he soon retired altogether from public life, and Madame Carraud, who should, according to Balzac,
have found scope for her talents in Paris, was buried in the country. Nevertheless, the Carrauds
were a happy couple, genuinely devoted to each other; and Madame Carraud cited the instance
of their affection, in spite of the difference of their point of view on many subjects, when
in 1833 she wrote to Honore urging him to marry.[*] "There is no need to tell you that my husband
and I are not sympathetic in everything. We are so unlike each other that the same objects
appear quite differently to us. Yet I know the happiness about which I speak. We both feel
it in the same degree, though in a different way. I would not give it up for the fullest existence,
according to generally received ideas. I have not an empty moment."

[*] Letter from Madame Carraud in the Vicomte de Spoelberch de
    Lovenjoul's collection, published in La Revue Bleue, November
    21st, 1903.

She was an ardent politician, and we gain much of our knowledge of Balzac's political views
from his letters to her when he wished to become a deputy; while she also possessed the faculty
which he valued most in his women friends, that of intelligent literary criticism. She could
be critical on other points as well; and, like Madame Hanska, blamed Balzac for mobility of
ideas and inconstancy of resolution, which she said wasted his intellect. There, too, he made
many pleasant acquaintances, among them M. Armand Pereme, the distinguished antiquary, and
M. Periollas, who was at one time under M. Carraud at Saint-Cyr, and afterwards became chief
of a squadron of artillery. To Madame Carraud he also owed an introduction to his most intimate
male friend, Auguste Borget, a genre painter who travelled in China, and drew many pictures
of the scenery there. Borget lodged in the same house with Balzac in the Rue Cassini, and is
mentioned by him in a letter to Madame Hanska, in 1833, as one of his three real friends beside
her and his sister, Madame de Berny and Madame Carraud being the other two. It was a very real
grief to Balzac when Borget was away; and he says that even when the painter is travelling,
sketching, and never writes to him, he is constantly in his remembrance; while in another letter
he speaks of his friend's nobility of soul and beauty of sentiment. To Borget was dedicated
the touching story of "La Messe de l'Athee"; and in case of Balzac's sudden death it was to
this "good, old, and true friend" that the duty of burning Madame Hanska's letters were entrusted,
though eventually their recipient performed this painful task himself in 1847.

A still older friend was M. Dablin, a rich, retired ironmonger with artistic tastes, who left
his valuable collection of artistic objects to the Louvre. He was known to Balzac before 1817;
and in 1830 the successful writer remembers with gratitude that M. Dablin used to be his only
visitor during his martyrdom in the Rue Lesdiguieres in 1819. At that time and later he was
most generous in lending Honore money; and the only cloud that came between them for a long
time was his indignation when Balzac wished to find him further security than his own life
for a loan he had promised. Later on, in 1845, when M. Dablin, rather hurt by some heedless
words from Balzac, and evidently jealous of his former protege's grand acquaintances, complained
that honours and fortune changed people's hearts--the great novelist found time, after his
daily sixteen hours of work, to write a long letter to his old benefactor.[*] In this he tells
him that nothing will alter his affection for him, that all his real friends are equal in his
sight; and he makes the true boast that, though he may have the egotism of the hard worker,
he has never yet forsaken any one for whom he feels affection, and is the same now in heart
as when he was a boy.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. ii. p. 115.

Other early and lifelong friendships were with Madame Delannoy, who lent him money, and was
in all ways kind to him, and with M. de Margonne, who lived at Sache, a chateau on the Indre,
in the beautiful Touraine valley described in "Le Lys dans la Vallee," and who had held Balzac
on his knees when a child. Balzac often paid him visits, especially when he wanted to meditate
over some serious work, as he found the solitude and pure air, and the fact that he was treated
in the neighbourhood simply as a native of the country and not as a celebrity, peculiarly stimulating
to his imagination and powers of creation. He wrote "Louis Lambert," among other novels at
the house of this hospitable friend. Madame de Margonne he did not care for: she was, according
to his unflattering portrait of her, intolerant and devout, deformed, and not at all spirituelle.
But she did not count for much; Balzac went to the house for the sake of her husband.

An intimacy was formed about this time between Balzac and La Touche, the editor of the Figaro,
who, as has been already mentioned, helped him in the prosaic task of nailing up draperies.
This intimacy must have been of great value to Balzac's education in the art of literature,
and is remarkable for that reason in the history of a man in whose writings small trace of
outside influence can be descried, and who, except in the case of Theophile Gautier, seemed
little affected by the thought of his contemporaries. Therefore, though a long way behind Madame
de Berny--without whom Balzac, as we know him, would hardly have existed--La Touche deserves
recognition for his work, however small, in moulding the literary ideals and forming the taste
of the great writer. Besides this, his friendship with Balzac is almost unique in the history
of the latter, in the fact that, for some reason we do not know, it was suddenly broken off;
and that almost the only occasion when Balzac showed personal dislike almost amounting to hatred,
in criticism, was when, in 1840, in the Revue Parisienne, he published an article on "Leo,"
a novel by La Touche. He became, George Sand says, completely indifferent to his old master,
while the latter --a pathetic, yet thorny and uncomfortable figure, as portrayed by his contemporaries--continued
to belittle and revile his former pupil, while all the time he loved him, and longed for a
reconciliation which never took place. La Touche had a quick instinct for discovering genius:
he introduced Andre Chenier's posthumous poems to the public, and launched Jules Sandeau and
George Sand. But he was soured by seeing his pupils enter the promised land only open to genius,
while he was left outside himself. Sooner or later, the eager, affected little hypochondriacal
man with the bright eyes quarrelled with all his friends, and a rupture would naturally soon
take place between the ultra-sensitive teacher, ready to take offence on the smallest pretext,
and the hearty, robust Tourainean, who, whatever his troubles might be, faced the world with
a laugh, who insisted on his genius with cheery egotism, and who, in spite of real goodheartedness
and depth of affection, was too full of himself to be always careful about the feelings of
others. How much Balzac owed to La Touche we do not know; but though, as we have already seen,
there were other reasons for his sudden stride in literature between 1825 and 1828, it is significant
that "Les Chouans," the first book to which he affixed his name, and in which his genius really
shows itself, was written directly after his intercourse with this literary teacher. No doubt
La Touche, who was cursed with the miserable fate of possessing the temperament of genius without
the electric spark itself, magnified the help he had given, and felt extreme bitterness at
the shortness of memory shown by the great writer, whom he vainly strove to sting into feeling
by the acerbity of his attacks.

Never at any time did Balzac go out much into society, but his anonymous novels, though they
did not bring him fame, had opened to him the doors of several literary and artistic salons,
and he was a frequenter of that of Madame Sophie Gay, the author of several novels, one of
which, "Anatole," is said to have been read by Napoleon during the last night spent at Fontainebleau
in 1814. Hers was essentially an Empire salon, antagonistic to the government of the Bourbons,
and Balzac's feelings were perhaps occasionally ruffled by the talk that went on around him,
though more probably the interest he found in the study of different phases of opinion outweighed
his party prepossessions. Those evenings must have been an anxious pleasure; for, with no money
to pay a cab fare, there was always the agonising question as to whether on arrival his boots
would be of spotless cleanliness, while the extravagance of a pair of white gloves meant a
diminution in food which it was not pleasant to contemplate. Then, too, he felt savage disgust
at the elegant costumes and smart cabriolets owned by empty-headed fops with insufferable airs
of conquest, who looked at him askance, and to whom he could not prove the genius that was
in him, or give voice to his belief that some day he would dominate them all. The restlessness
and discomfort, and at the same time the sense of unknown and fascinating possibilities which
are the birthright of talented youth, and in the portrayal of which Balzac is supreme, must
have been well known to him by experience; and his almost Oriental love of beauty and luxury
made his life of grinding poverty peculiarly galling.

Conspicuous in her mother's salon, queen of conversationalists, reciting verses in honour of
the independence of Greece, exciting peals of laughter by her wit and her power to draw out
that of others, was a brilliant figure--that of the beautiful Delphine Gay, who was, in 1831,
to become Madame de Girardin. She is a charming figure, a woman with unfailing tact and a singular
lack of literary jealousy, so that all her contemporaries speak of her with affection. She
made strenuous efforts to keep the peace between Balzac and her husband, the autocratic editor
of La Presse; and till 1847, when the final rupture took place, Balzac's real liking for her
conquered his resentment at what he considered unjustifiable proceedings on the part of her
husband. Once indeed there was a complete cessation of friendly relations, and even dark hints
about a duel; but usually Madame de Girardin prevailed; and though there were many recriminations
on both sides, and several times nearly an explosion, Balzac wrote for La Presse, visited her
salon, and was generally on terms of politeness with her husband. She was proud of her beautiful
complexion, and had a drawing-room hung with pale green satin to show it to the best advantage;
while, like her mother, she wrote novels, one of which she called "La Canne de M. de Balzac,"
after the novelist's famous cane adorned with turquoises.

One of the habituees of Madame Gay's salon was the Duchesse d'Abrantes; and between her and
Balzac there existed a literary comradeship, possibly cemented by the impecunious condition
which was common to both. In 1827 she lived at Versailles; and whenever Balzac went to see
his parents, he also paid her a visit; when long talks took place about their mutual struggles,
misfortunes and hopes of gaining money by writing. The poor woman was always in monetary difficulties.
After the fall of the Empire and the death of her husband, whom she courageously followed throughout
his campaign in Spain, she continued to live in the same luxury that had surrounded her during
her days of splendour; and as the Bourbon Government refused to help her, she was soon reduced
to a state of destitution, and turned to her pen to pay off her creditors. She wrote several
novels, which at this time are completely forgotten; but in 1831 she began to bring out her
Memoirs, and these give a graphic account of the social life under the Empire, and have become
a classic. These Memoirs were first published in sixteen volumes, and it must have been a relief
to the public when a second edition, consisting of only twelve volumes, was brought out three
years later.

In 1829, the time of which we are now writing, Balzac could only sympathise when the poor Duchess,
formerly raised to great heights and now fallen very low, felt depressed at her reverses, and
took a gloomy view of life. He would assure her that happiness could not possibly be over for
ever, and would predict a bright dawn some future day; while as soon as he began to prosper
himself, he did his best to lend her a helping hand. He effected an introduction to Charles
Rabou, so that her articles were received by the Revue de Paris, and he assisted as intermediary
between her and the publishers, taking infinite trouble on her behalf, and in the end gaining
most advantageous terms for her. No assistance, however, was of permanent use. She, who knew
so much, had never learnt to manage money, and, helped by her eldest son, Napoleon d'Abrantes,
she spent every penny she earned. On July 7th, 1838, she died in the utmost poverty in a miserable
room in the Rue des Batailles, having been turned out of the hospital, where she had hoped
to end her days in peace, because she could not pay her expenses in advance. Balzac writes
to Madame Hanska: "The papers will have told you about the Duchesse d'Abrantes' deplorable
death. She ended as the Empire ended. Some day I will explain this woman to you; it will be
a nice evening's occupation at Wierzchownia."[*]

[*] "Lettres a l'Etrangere."

Another of Balzac's friendships, rather different in character from those already mentioned,
was that with George Sand, "his brother George" he used to call her. He first made her acquaintance
in 1831, and would often go puffing up the stairs of the five-storied house on the Quai Saint-Michel,
at the top of which she lived. His ostensible object was to give advice about her writing,
but in reality he would leave this comparatively uninteresting subject very quickly, and pour
out floods of talk about his own novels. "Ah, I have found something else! You will see! You
will see! A splendid idea! A situation! A dialogue! No one has ever seen anything like it!"
"It was joy, laughter, and a superabundance of enthusiasm, of which one cannot give any idea.
And this after nights without slumber and days without repose,"[*] remarks George Sand.

[*] "Autour de la Table," by George Sand.

There were limitations in his view of her, as he never fully realised the scope of her genius,
and looked on her as half a man, so that he would sometimes shock her by the breadth of his
conversation. After her rupture with Jules Sandeau, whose side in the affair he espoused vehemently,
he disapproved of her for some time, and contrasted rather contemptuously the versatility of
her affairs of the heart with the ideal of passionate, enduring love portrayed in her novels.
However, later on, when he himself had been disappointed in Sandeau, and when the latter had
further roused his indignation by writing a novel called "Marianna," which was intended to
drag George Sand's name through the mud, Balzac defended her energetically. About the same
time (1839) he brought out his novel "Beatrix," in which she is portrayed as Mlle. de Touches,
with "the beauty of Isis, more serious than gracious, and as if struck with the sadness of
constant meditation." Her eyes, according to Balzac, were her great beauty, and all her expression
was in them, otherwise her face was stupid; but with her splendid black hair and her complexion--olive
by day and white in artificial light--she must have been a striking and picturesque figure.
Later on Balzac appears to have partly reconciled himself to her moral irregularities, on the
convenient ground that she, like himself, was an exceptional being; and we hear of several
visits he paid to Nohant, where he delighted in long hours of talk on social questions with
a comrade to whom he need not show the galanteries d'epiderme necessary in intercourse with
ordinary women. He says of her: "She had no littleness of soul, and none of those low jealousies
which obscure so much contemporary talent. Dumas is like her on this point. George Sand is
a very noble friend."[*]

[*] "Lettres a l'Etrangere."

This is all anticipation; we must now go back to 1828 and 1829, and picture Balzac's existence
first in the Rue de Tournon and then in one room at the Rue Cassini. Insufficiently clad and
wretchedly fed, he occasionally went to evening parties to collect material for his writing;
at other times he visited some sympathising friend, and poured out his troubles to her; but
he had only one real support--the sympathy and affection of Madame de Berny. It was a frightfully
hard life. He took coffee to keep himself awake, and he wrote and wrote till he was exhausted;
all the time being in the condition of a "tracked hare," harassed and pursued by his creditors,
and knowing that all his gains must go to them.

His only relaxations were little visits. He went to Tours, where he danced at a ball with a
girl with red hair, and with another so little "that a man would only marry her that she might
act as a pin for his shirt."[*] He travelled to Sache, to see M. de Margonne; to Champrosay,
where he met his sister; and to Fougeres in Brittany, at the invitation of the Baron de Pommereul.
During the last-named visit, as we have already seen, he not only collected the material, but
also wrote the greater part of his novel "Les Chouans," which proved the turning-point of his
career.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. i. p. 82.

This novel, the first signed with his name, Honore Balzac, was published by Canel and Levavasseur
in March, 1829, and in December of the same year the "Physiologie du Mariage by a Celibataire,"
appeared, and excited general attention; though many people, Madame Carraud among the number,
were much shocked by it. Each of these books brought in about fifty pounds--not a large sum,
especially when we think that Balzac must at this time have owed about two thousand pounds;
but he had now his foot upon the first rung of the ladder of fame, and editors and publishers
began to apply to him for novels and articles.

It is a curious fact that Balzac, who answered a question put to him during his lawsuit against
the Revue de Paris on the subject of his right to the prefix "de," with the rather grandiloquent
words, "My name is on my certificate of birth, as that of the Duke of Fitz-James is on his,"[*]
should on the title-page of "Les Chouans" have called himself simply M. H. Balzac, and on that
of the "Scenes de la Vie Privee," which appeared in April, 1830, M. Balzac, still without the
"de." In 1826 he gives his designation and title as "H. Balzac, imprimeur, Rue des Marais,
St.-Germain, 31," and we have already seen that he was entered on the school register as Honore
Balzac, and that his parents at that time called themselves M. and Mme. Balzac. Occasionally,
however, as early as 1822, in letters to his sister Honore insists on the particle "de," and
all his life he claimed to be a member of a very old Gaulish family--a pretension which gave
his enemies a famous opportunity for deriding him.

[*] First Preface to the "Lys dans la Vallee," p 482, vol. xxii. of
    "Oeuvres Completes de H. de Balzac," Edition definitive.

In 1836, during his lawsuit with the Revue de Paris, he certainly spoke on the subject with
no doubtful voice:

"Even if my name sounds too well in certain ears, even if it is envied by those who are not
pleased with their own, I cannot give it up. My father was quite within his rights on this
subject, having consulted the records in the Archive Office. He was proud of being one of the
conquered race, of a family which in Auvergne had resisted the invasion, and from which the
D'Entragues took their origin. He discovered in the Archive Office the notice of a grant of
land made by the Balzacs to establish a monastery in the environs of the little town of Balzac,
and a copy of this was, he told me, registered by his care at the Parliament of Paris."[*]

[*] See First Preface to the "Lys dans la Vallee."

Balzac continues for some time in this strain, giving his enemies a fresh handle for ridicule.
After the loss of the lawsuit, the Revue de Paris, raging with indignation, answered him with
"Un dernier mot a M. de Balzac," an article which the writer, after a reflection full of venom,
must have dashed off with set teeth and a sardonic smile, and in which there is a most scathing
paragraph on the vexed question of the "de":

"He [Balzac] tells us that he is of an old Gaulish family (You understand, 'Gaulish'--one of
Charlemagne's peers! A French family, what is that? Gaulish!) It is not his own fault, poor
man! Further, M. de Balzac will prove to you that the Bourbons and the Montmorencies and other
French gentlemen must lower their armorial bearings before him, who is a Gaul, and more--a
Gaul of an old family! In fact, this name 'De Balzac' is a patronymic name (patronymically
ridiculous and Gaulish). He has always been De Balzac, only that! while the Montmorencies--those
unfortunate Montmorencies--were formerly called Bouchard; and the Bourbons--a secondary family
who are neither patronymic nor Gaulish (of old Gaulish family is of course understood) were
called Capet. M. de Balzac is therefore more noble than the King!"

Towards the end, rage renders the talented writer slightly incoherent, and we can imagine a
blotted and illegible manuscript; but the question raised is an interesting one, and Balzac
attached great importance to it. A favourite form of spite with his enemies was to adopt the
same measures as did this writer, who, except in the title, calls him throughout "M. Balzac,"
a form of insult which possessed the double advantage of imposing no strain on the mind of
the attacking party, and yet of hitting the victim on a peculiarly tender spot.

Balzac's statement that he was entered "De Balzac" on the register of his birth is on the face
of it untrue, as he was born on the 2nd Prairial of the year VII., a time when all titles were
proscribed; so that the omission of the "de" means nothing, while his contention that he dropped
the "de" in 1826, because he would not soil his noble name by associating it with trade, might
very easily be correct. Unfortunately, however, for Balzac's argument, when old M. Balzac died,
on June 19th, 1829, he was described in the register as Bernard Francois Balzac, without the
"de." He does not even seem to have stood on his rights during his lifetime, as in 1826, after
the death of Laurence, who had become Madame de Montzaigle--it must have been a satisfaction
to the Balzac family to have one indisputable "de" among them--cards were sent out in the names
of M. and Madame Balzac, M. and Madame Surville, and MM. Honore and Henri Balzac.

Still, it might be possible for us to maintain, if it so pleased us, that, in spite of certain
evidence to the contrary, the Balzacs were simple, unpretentious people, who, having dropped
the "de" at the time of the Revolution, did not care to resume it; but here M. Edmond Bire,
who furnishes us with the information already given, completely cuts the ground away from under
our feet. It appears that M. Charles Portal, the well-known antiquary, has in his researches
discovered the birth register of old M. Balzac. He was born on July 22nd, 1746, at La Nougarie,
in the parish of Saint-Martin de Canezac, and is described in this document, not as Balzac
at all, but as Bernard Francois Balssa, the son of a labourer! At what date he took the name
of Balzac, and whether his celebrated son knew of the harmless deception, we do not know; but
possibly his change of name was another of the little reserves which the clever old gentleman
thought it necessary to maintain about his past life, and Honore really considered himself
a member of an old family.

At any rate, as M. Bire says, he certainly earned by his pen the right to nobility, and in
this account of him he will be known by his usual appellation of "De Balzac."

                              CHAPTER VI

                             1829 - 1832

  Work and increasing fame--Emile de Girardin--Balzac's early
  relations with the Revue de Paris and quarrel with Amedee
  Pinchot--First letters from Madame Hanska and the Marquise de
  Castries--Balzac's extraordinary mode of writing--Burlesque
  account of it from the Figaro.

The record of the next few years of Balzac's life is a difficult one, so many and varied were
the interests crowded into them, so short the hours of sleep, and so long the nights of work,
followed without rest by an eight hours' day of continual rush. Visits to printers, publishers,
and editors, worrying interviews with creditors, and letters on business, politics, and literature,
followed each other in bewilderingly quick succession, and the only respite was to be found
in occasional talks with such friends as Madame de Berny, Madame Carraud, or the Duchesse d'Abrantes.

Success was arriving. But success with Balzac never meant leisure, or relief from a heavy burden
of debt; it merely gave scope for enormous prodigies of labour. His passion for work amounted
to a disease; and who can measure the gamut of emotion, ranging from rapture down to straining
effort, which was gone through in those silent hours of darkness, when the man, the best part
of whom lived only in solitude and night, sat in his monk's habit, before a writing-table littered
with papers? Then, impelled by the genius of creation, he would allow his imagination full
sway, and would turn to account the material collected by his keen powers of observation and
his unparalleled intuition. It was strenuous labour, with the attendant joy of calling every
faculty, including the highest of all--that of creation--into activity, and the hours no doubt
often passed like moments. But the fierce battling with expression, the effort to tax super-abundant
powers to the utmost, left their mark; and in the morning Balzac would drag himself to the
printer or publisher, with his hair in disorder, his lips dry, and his forehead lined.

Jules Sandeau, who had been taken by Balzac to live with him, and who remarked that he would
rather die than work as he did, says that sometimes, when the passion and inspiration for writing
were strong on him, he would shut himself up for three weeks in his closely curtained room,
never breathing the outside air or knowing night from day. When utterly exhausted, he would
throw himself on his pallet-bed for a few hours, and slumber heavily and feverishly; and when
he could fast no longer, he would call for a meal, which must, however, be scanty, because
digestion would divert the blood from his brain. Otherwise, hour after hour, he sat before
his square table, and concentrated his powerful mind on his work, utterly oblivious of the
fact that there was anything in the world save the elbowing, crushing throng of phantom--yet
to him absolutely real--personages, whom he took into his being, and in whose life he lived.
For the time he felt with their feelings, saw with their eyes, became possessed by them, as
the great actor becomes possessed by the personality he represents. "C'etait un voyant, non
un observateur," as Philarete Chasles said with truth.

In 1829 Balzac was introduced by the publisher M. Levavasseur to Emile de Girardin, who became--and
the connection was life-long--what Mme. de Girardin called La Touche,--an "intimate enemy."
At first all was harmony. Emile de Girardin's letters, beginning in 1830 with "Mon tres-cher
Monsieur," are addressed in 1831 to "Mon cher Balzac"; but it is doubtful whether the finish
of one written in October, 1830, and ending with "Amitie d'ambition!!!"[*] is exactly flattering
to the recipient--it savours rather strongly of what is termed in vulgar parlance "cupboard
love." However, Girardin was the first to recognise the great writer's talents, and at the
end of 1829, or the beginning of 1830, after having inserted an article by Balzac in La Mode,
of which he was editor, he invited his collaboration, as well as that of Victor Varaigne, Hippolyte
Auger, and Bois le Comte, in forming a bibliographical supplement to the daily papers, which
was to be entitled "Le feuilleton des journaux politiques." This was a failure, but Balzac
was associated with Emile de Girardin in several other literary enterprises; and it was through
the agency of this energetic editor that he wrote his letters on Paris in the Voleur, which,
extending from September 26th, 1830, to March 29th, 1831, would form a volume in themselves.
After the Revolution of 1830 stories went out of fashion, the reviews and magazines being completely
occupied with the task of discussing the political situation; and Balzac wrote numberless articles
in the Silhouette, which was edited by Victor Ratier, and in the Caricature, edited by M. Philippon.
A few years later, the latter journal became violently political; but at this time it consisted
merely of witty and amusing articles, ridiculing all parties impartially.

[*] "La Genese d'un Roman de Balzac," p. 105, by the Vicomte de
    Spoelberch de Lovenjoul.

With Victor Ratier, Balzac contemplated a partnership in writing for the theatre, though he
thought Ratier hardly sufficiently industrious to make a satisfactory collaborator. However,
he threatened him in case of laziness with a poor and honest young man as a rival, and, to
rouse Ratier to energy, remarked that the unnamed prodigy was, like himself, full of courage,
whereas Ratier resembled "an Indian on his mat."[*] Balzac's imaginative brain was to supply
the plot and characters of each drama; but he was careful, as in the case of his early novels,
that his name should not appear, as the plays were to be mere vaudevilles written to gain money,
and would certainly not increase their author's reputation. Ratier was therefore to pose as
their sole author, and was to undertake the actual writing of the play, unless he were too
lazy for the effort, when the honest and unfortunate young man would take his place. The pecuniary
part of the bargain was not mentioned, except the fact that both partners would become enormously
rich; and that result is so invariable a characteristic of Balzac's schemes that it need hardly
be noticed. However, this brilliant plan came to nothing, not, as we may suppose, from any
failure on the part of the indolent Ratier--as there was in this case his unnamed rival to
fall back upon--but most probably because its promoter had not a moment's leisure in which
to think of it again.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. i. p. 115.

Towards the end of 1830 he began to write for the Revue de Paris, a journal with which his
relations, generally inharmonious, culminated in the celebrated lawsuit of 1836. The review
was at this time the property of a company; and the sole object of the shareholders being to
obtain large dividends, they adopted the short-sighted policy of cutting down their payment
to authors, a course which led to continual recriminations, and naturally made the office of
chief editor very difficult. When Balzac first wrote for the review, Charles Rabou held this
post, following Dr. Veron; but he resigned in a few months, and was succeeded in his turn by
Amedee Pichot. With him Balzac waged continual war, finally dealing a heavy blow to the review
by deserting it altogether in 1833.

The cause of the dispute, in the first instance, was one which often reappears in the history
of Balzac's relations with different editors. Being happily possessed of devoted friends, who
allowed him complete freedom while he stayed with them, he found it easier to write in the
quiet of the country than amidst the worries and distractions of Paris. In 1830, after travelling
in Brittany, he spent four months, from July to November, at La Grenadiere, that pretty little
house near to Saint-Cyr-sur-Loire, which he coveted continually, but never succeeded in acquiring.
In 1834 he thought the arrangements for its purchase were at last settled. After three years
of continual refusals, the owners had consented to sell, and he already imagined himself surrounded
with books, and established for six months at a time at this studious retreat. However, pecuniary
difficulties came as usual in the way, and except as a visitor, Balzac never tasted the joys
of a country life.

From La Grenadiere he wrote a remarkable letter to Ratier,[*] full of love for the beauty of
nature, a feeling which filled him with a sense of the littleness of man, and expressing also
that uncomfortable doubt which must occasionally assail the mind of any man possessed of powerful
physique as well as imagination--the doubt whether the existence of the thinker is not after
all a poor thing compared with that of the active worker, who is tossed about, risks his life,
and himself creates a living drama. He finishes with the words: "And it seems to me that the
sea, a man-of-war, and an English boat to destroy, with a chance of drowning, are better than
an inkpot, and a pen, and the Rue Saint-Denis."

[*] "Correspondance," vol. i. p 98.

In May, 1831, Balzac was again away from Paris, this time taking up his abode in Nemours, where
he describes himself as living alone in a tent in the depths of the earth, subsisting on coffee,
and working day and night at "La Peau de Chagrin," with "L'Auberge Rouge," which he was writing
for the Revue de Paris, as his only distraction.

These absences did not apparently cause any friction; but when, in November, 1831, Balzac went
to Sache to stay with M. de Margonne, and then moved on to the Carrauds, he left "Le Maitre
Cornelius," which he was writing for the Revue de Paris, in an unfinished and uncorrected condition.
Thereupon, Amedee Pichot, who naturally wanted consecutive numbers of the story for his magazine,
committed what was in Balzac's eyes an unpardonable breach of trust, by publishing the uncorrected
proofs, leaving out or altering what he did not understand. Balzac was furious at his signature
being appended to what he considered unfinished work. Amedee Pichot was also very angry, because
Balzac had unduly lengthened the first part of the story, and had kept him two months waiting
for the finish. Therefore, as diligence was the only mode of transit, and it was necessary
that "Le Maitre Cornelius" should end with the year, it was impossible to send the proofs before
printing for correction to Angouleme. Nevertheless, as he had undoubtedly exceeded his rights
as editor, he thought it wise to temporise, and wrote an explanatory and conciliatory letter;
and as this did not pacify Balzac, he dispatched a second of similar tenor. However, a few
days later, on January 9th, 1832, he felt compelled by the tone of Balzac's correspondence
to send a third beginning: "Sir, I find from the tone of your letter that I am guilty of doing
you a great wrong. I have treated on an equality and as a comrade a superior person, whom I
should have been contented to admire. I therefore beg your pardon humbly for the 'My dear Balzac'
of my preceding letters.

However, Balzac was furious. His respect for his own name and his intense literary conscientiousness
were stronger even than his desire for money, and it was a very black crime in his eyes for
any one to produce one of his works before the public until it had been brought to the highest
possible pitch of perfection. This intense anxiety to do his best, which caused him the most
painstaking labour, often pressed very hardly on managers of magazines. He was generally paid
in advance, so that his money was safe; and though he could be absolutely trusted to finish
sooner or later what he had undertaken, he showed a lofty indifference to the exigencies of
monthly publication. Moreover, as is shown in the evidence given later on during his lawsuit
with the Revue de Paris, he would sometimes, in his haste for money, accept new engagements
when he already had a plethora of work in hand. Nevertheless, whatever the failures to fulfil
a contract on his part might be, he was implacable towards those who did not rightly discharge
their obligations to him; and Pichot was never forgiven. In September, 1832, after endless
disputes about the rate and terms of payment, the most fertile source of recriminations between
Balzac and his various publishers and editors, a formal treaty was drawn up between the great
writer, who was at Sache, and Amedee Pichot, as director of the Revue de Paris. By this, with
the option of breaking the connection after six months, Balzac undertook to write for the Revue
for a year, being still entitled during that time to furnish articles to the Renovateur, the
Journal Quotidienne Politique, and L'Artiste. In spite of this legal document, there were many
disputed points; and the letters which passed between the two men, and which now began with
the formal "Monsieur," were full of bickerings about money matters, about Balzac's delay in
furnishing copy, and about the length of his contributions. On one occasion Pichot is severe
in his rebukes, because Balzac has prevented the Duchesse d'Abrantes from providing a promised
article, by telling her that his own writing will fill two whole numbers of the Revue. On another,
it is curious to find that Balzac, who was rather ashamed of the immoral reputation of his
works, thanks M. Pichot quite humbly for suppressing a passage in the "Voyage de Paris a Java,"
which the director considered unfit for family perusal, and excuses himself on the subject
with the naive explanation that he was at the same time writing the "Contes Drolatiques"![*]
Finally, in March, 1833, after six months of the treaty had expired, Balzac withdrew altogether
from the Revue de Paris. He gave no explicit explanation for this step; but in 1836, at the
time of his lawsuit with the Revue de Paris, he stated as the reason for his desertion that
he considered Pichot to be the author, under different pseudonyms, of the adverse criticism
of his novels which appeared in its pages. In the Revue he had, among other novels, brought
out the beginning of "L'Histoire des Treize," and the parsimonious shareholders now had the
mortification of seeing the great man carry his wares to L'Europe Litteraire; while the Revue
de Paris, in consequence of his desertion, declined in popularity.

Balzac was now fairly launched on the road of literary fame, and some of his writings at this
time had a momentous influence on his life. In April, 1830, Madame Hanska, his future wife,
read with delight, in her far-off chateau in Ukraine, the "Scenes de la Vie Privee," containing
the "Vendetta," "Les Dangers de l'Inconduite," "Le Bal de Sceaux, ou Le Pair de France," "Gloire
et Malheur," "La Femme Vertueuse" and "La Paix de Menage"--two volumes which Balzac had published
as quickly as he could, to counteract the alienation of his women-readers by the "Physiologie
du Mariage." In August, 1831, appeared "La Peau de Chagrin," which so disappointed Madame Hanska
by its cynical tone, that she was impelled to write the first letter from L'Etrangere, which
reached Balzac on February 28th, 1832, a date never to be forgotten in the annals of his life.
He was not, however, very exact in remembering it himself, and in later life sometimes became
confused in his calculations between the number of years since he had received this letter,
and the time which had elapsed since he first had the joy of meeting her. "La Peau de Chagrin"
greatly increased Balzac's fame, and in October, 1831, another anonymous correspondent, Madame
la Marquise de Castries, also destined to exercise a strong, though perhaps transitory, influence
over Balzac, had written to deprecate its moral tone, as well as that of the "Physiologie du
Mariage." Balzac answered her that "La Peau de Chagrin" was only intended to be part of a whole,
and must not be judged alone; and the same idea is enlarged upon in a letter to the Comte de
Montalembert,[*] written in August, 1831, which shows Balzac's extreme anxiety not to dissociate
his writings from the cause of religion. In it he explains, with much insistence, that, in
site of the apparent scepticism of "La Peau de Chagrin," the idea of God is really the mainspring
of the whole book, and on these grounds he begs for a review in L'Avenir. The letter also contains
an announcement which is interesting as a proof that two years before the date given by his
sister, the idea of his great systematic work was already formulated, and that in his imagination
it had assumed colossal proportions. He says: "'La Peau de Chagrin' is the formula of human
life, an abstraction made from individualities, and, as M. Ballanche says, everything in it
is myth and allegory. It is therefore the point of departure for my work. Afterwards individualities
and particular existences, from the most humble to those of the King and of the Priest, the
highest expressions of our society, will group themselves according to their rank. In these
pictures I shall follow the effect of Thought on Life. Then another work, entitled 'History
of the Succession of the Marquis of Carabas,' will formulate the life of nations, the phases
of their governments, and will show decidedly that politics turn in one circle, and are evidently
stationary; and that repose can only be found in the strong government of a hierarchy."

[*] Letters sent by the Vicomte de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul to the
    Revue Bleue, November 14th, 1903.

The "Peau de Chagrin," which is a powerful satire on the vice and selfishness of the day, suffers
in its allegorical, though not in its humanly interesting side, by the vivid picture it gives
of Balzac's youth; as, in spite of the introduction of the influence of the magic Ass Skin,
the account of Raphael in the early part of the book, as the frugal, determined genius with
high intellectual aspirations, does not harmonise with his weak, despicable character as it
unfolds itself subsequently. The critics exercised their minds greatly about the identity of
the heroines, the beautiful and heartless Fedora--in whom apparently many ladies recognised
their own portrait--and the humble and exquisite Pauline, type of devoted and self-forgetting
love. Mademoiselle Pelissier, who possessed an income of twenty-five thousand francs, and had
a house in the Rue Neuve-du-Luxembourg, where she held a salon much frequented by political
personalities of the day, was identified by popular gossip as the model of Fedora. It was said
by Parisian society that Balzac was anxious to marry her, but that the lady, who afterwards
became Madame Rossini, refused to listen to his suit, though she confessed to a great admiration
for his fascinating black eyes.

The original of Pauline has never been discovered, but, possibly with a few traits borrowed
from Madame de Berny, she is what Balzac describes in the last pages of "La Peau de Chagrin"
as an "ideal, as a visionary face in the fire, a face with unimaginable delicate outlines,
a floating apparition, which no chance will ever bring back again."

Since the year 1830 Balzac had lodged in the Rue Cassini, a little, unfrequented street near
the Observatory, with a wall running along one side, on which was written "L'Absolu, marchand
de briques," a name which Theophile Gautier fancies may have suggested to him the title of
his novel "La Recherche de l'Absolu." Borget, Balzac's great friend and confidant, had rooms
in the same house; and later on, when Borget was on one of his frequent journeys, these rooms
were occupied by Jules Sandeau, after his parting with George Sand. In despair at her desertion,
he tried to commit suicide; and Balzac, touched with pity at his forlorn condition, proposed
that he should come to Borget's rooms, and took complete and kindly charge of him--a generosity
which Sandeau, after having lived at Balzac's expense for two years, repaid in 1836, by deserting
his benefactor when he was in difficulties.

Balzac was now in the full swing of work. He writes to the Duchesse d'Abrantes in 1831:[*]
"Write, I cannot! The fatigue is too great. You do not know that I owed in 1828, above what
I possessed. I had only my pen with which to earn my living, and to pay a hundred and twenty
thousand francs. In several months I shall have paid everything, and I shall have arranged
my poor little household; but for six months I have all the troubles of poverty, I enjoy my
last miseries. I have begged from nobody, I have not held out my hand for a penny; I have hidden
my sorrows, and my wounds."

[*] "Correspondance," vol. i. p. 131.

Poor Balzac! over and over again we hear the same story about the beautiful time in the future,
which he saw coming nearer and nearer, but which always evaded his grasp at the last. Very
often, when he appears grasping and dictatorial in his business dealings, we may trace his
want of urbanity to some pressing pecuniary anxiety, which he was too proud to reveal. No doubt
these difficulties often sprang from his extraordinary want of reflection and prudence, as
his desire to make a dashing appearance before the world led him frequently into the most senseless
extravagance. For instance, when he went out of Paris in June, 1832, intending to travel for
several months, he left behind him two horses with nothing to do, but naturally requiring a
groom, food, and stabling; and it was not till the end of July that, on his mother's recommendation,
he sent orders that they were to be sold. His money affairs are so complicated, and his own
accounts of them so conflicting, that it is impossible to understand them thoroughly. Apparently,
however, from 1827 to 1836 he could not support himself and satisfy his creditors without drawing
bills. These he often could not meet, and had to renew; and the accumulated interest on these
obligations formed a floating debt, which was from time to time increased by some new extravagance.

In his vain struggles to escape, he worked as surely no man has ever worked before or since.
In 1830 he brought out about seventy, and in 1831 about seventy-five publications, including
novels, and articles serious and satirical, on politics and general topics; and in twelve years,
from 1830 to 1842, he wrote seventy-nine novels alone, not counting his shorter compositions.
Werdet, who became his publisher in 1834, gives a curious account of his doings; and this may,
with slight modifications, be accepted as a picture of his usual mode of life when in the full
swing of composition.

He usually went to bed at eight o'clock, after a light dinner, accompanied by a glass or two
of Vouvray, his favourite wine; and he was seated at his desk by two o'clock in the morning.
He wrote from that time till six, only occasionally refreshing himself with coffee from a coffee-pot
which was permanently in the fireplace. At six he had his bath, in which he remained for an
hour, and his servant afterwards brought him more coffee. Werdet was then admitted to bring
proofs, take away the corrected ones, and wrest, if possible, fresh manuscript from him. From
nine he wrote till noon, when he breakfasted on two boiled eggs and some bread, and from one
till six the labour of correction went on again. This unnatural life lasted for six weeks or
two months, during which time he refused to see even his most intimate friends; and then he
plunged again into the ordinary affairs of life, or mysteriously and suddenly disappeared--to
be next heard of in some distant part of France, or perhaps in Corsica, Sardinia, or Italy.
It is not surprising that even in these early days, and in spite of Balzac's exuberant vitality,
there are frequent mentions of terrible fatigue and lassitude, and that the services of his
lifelong friend, Dr. Nacquart, were often in requisition, though his warnings about the dangers
of overwork were generally unheeded.

Even with Balzac's extraordinary power of work, the number of his writings is remarkable, when
we consider the labour their composition cost him. Sometimes, according to Theophile Gautier,
he bestowed a whole night's labour on one phrase, and wrote it over and over again a hundred
times, the exact words that he wanted only coming to him after he had exhausted all the possible
approximate forms. When he intended to begin a novel, and had thought of and lived in a subject
for some time, he wrote a plan of his proposed work in several pages, and dispatched this to
the printer, who separated the different headings, and sent them back, each on a large sheet
of blank paper. Balzac read these headings attentively, and applied to them his critical faculty.
Some he rejected altogether, others he corrected, but everywhere he made additions. Lines were
drawn from the beginning, the middle, and the end of each sentence towards the margin of the
paper; each line leading to an interpolation, a development, an added epithet or an adverb.
At the end of several hours the sheet of paper looked like a plan of fireworks, and later on
the confusion was further complicated by signs of all sorts crossing the lines, while scraps
of paper covered with amplifications were pinned or stuck with sealing-wax to the margin. This
sheet of hieroglyphics was sent to the printing-office, and was the despair of the typographers;
who, as Balzac overheard, stipulated for only an hour each in turn at the correction of his
proofs. Next day the amplified placards came back, and Balzac added further details, and laboured
to fit the expression exactly to the idea, and to attain perfection of outline and symmetry
of proportion. Sometimes one episode dwarfed the rest, or a secondary figure usurped the central
position on his canvas, and then he would heroically efface the results of four or five nights'
labour. Six, seven, even ten times, were the proofs sent backwards and forwards, before the
great writer was satisfied.

In the Figaro of December 15th, 1837, Edouard Ourliac gives a burlesque account of the confusion
caused in the printing-offices by Balzac's peculiar methods of composition. This is an extract
from the article:

"Let us sing, drink and embrace, like the chorus of an opera comique. Let us stretch our calves,
and turn on our toes like ballet-dancers. Let us at last rejoice: the Figaro, without getting
the credit of it, has overcome the elements and all sublunary cataclysms.

"Hercules is only a rascal, the apples of Hesperides only turnips, the siege of Troy but a
revolt of the national guard. The Figaro has just conquered 'Cesar Birotteau'!

"Never have the angry gods, never have Juno, Neptune, M. de Rambuteau, or the Prefect of Police,
opposed to Jason, Theseus, or walkers in Paris, more obstacles, monsters, ruins, dragons, demolitions,
than these two unfortunate octavos have fought against.

"We have them at last, and we know what they have cost. The public will only have the trouble
of reading them. That will be a pleasure. As to M. de Balzac--twenty days' work, two handfuls
of paper, one more beautiful book: that counts for nothing.

"However it may be, it is a typographical exploit, a literary and industrial tour de force
worthy to be remembered. Writer, editor, and printer have deserved more or less from their
country. Posterity will talk of the compositors, and our descendants will regret that they
do not know the names of the apprentices. I already, like them, regret it; otherwise I would
mention them.

"The Figaro had promised the book on December 15th, and M. de Balzac began it on November 17th.
M. de Balzac and the Figaro both have the strange habit of keeping their word. The printing-office
was ready, and stamping its foot like a restive charger.

"M. de Balzac sends two hundred pages pencilled in five nights of fever. One knows his way.
It was a sketch, a chaos, an apocalypse, a Hindoo poem.

"The printing-office paled. The delay is short, the writing unheard of. They transform the
monster; they translate it as much as possible into known signs. The cleverest still understand
nothing. They take it to the author.

"The author sends back the first proofs, glued on to enormous pages, posters, screens. It is
now that you may shiver and feel pity. The appearance of these sheets is monstrous. From each
sign, from each printed word, go pen lines, which radiate and meander like a Congreve rocket,
and spread themselves out at the margin in a luminous rain of phrases, epithets, and substantives,
underlined, crossed, mixed, erased, superposed: the effect is dazzling.

"Imagine four or five hundred arabesques of this sort, interlaced, knotted, climbing and sliding
from one margin to another, and from the south to the north. Imagine twelve maps on the top
of each other, entangling towns, rivers, and mountains--a skein tangled by a cat, all the hieroglyphics
of the dynasty of Pharaoh, or the fireworks of twenty festivities.

"At this sight the printing-office does not rejoice. The compositors strike their breasts,
the printing-presses groan, the foremen tear their hair, their apprentices lose their heads.
The most intelligent attack the proofs, and recognise Persian, others Malagash, some the symbolic
characters of Vishnu. They work by chance and by the grace of God.

"Next day M. de Balzac returns two pages of pure Chinese. The delay is only fifteen days. A
generous foreman offers to blow out his brains.

"Two new sheets arrive, written very legibly in Siamese. Two workmen lose their sight and the
small command of language they possessed.

"The proofs are thus sent backwards and forwards seven times.

"Several symptoms of excellent French begin to be recognised, even some connection between
the phrases is observed."

So the article proceeds; always in a tone of comic good-temper, but pointing to a very real
grievance and point of dispute; and helping the reader to realise the long friction which went
on, and finally resulted in the unanimity with which publishers and editors turned against
Balzac after his famous lawsuit, and showed a vindictive hate which at first sight is surprising.
However, in this case the matter ends happily, as the article closes with:

"It ['Cesar Birotteau'] is now merely a work in two volumes, an immense picture, a whole poem,
composed, written, and corrected fifteen times in the same number of days--composed in twenty
days by M. de Balzac in spite of the printer's office, composed in twenty days by the printer's
office in spite of M. de Balzac.

"It is true that at the same time M. de Balzac was employing forty printers at another printing-office.
We do not examine here the value of the book. It was made marvellously and marvellously quickly.
Whatever it is, it can only be a chef d'oeuvre!"

                             CHAPTER VII

                                 1832

  Crisis in Balzac's private life--"Contes Drolatiques"--Madame
  Hanska's life before she met Balzac--Description of her appearance
  --"Louis Lambert"--Disinterested conduct on the part of Madame de
  Berny--Relations between Balzac and his mother--Balzac and the
  Marquise de Castries--His despair.

The year 1832 was a crisis and a turning-point in the history of Balzac's private life.

Old relations changed their aspect; he received a terrible and mortifying wound to his heart
and to his vanity; and while he staggered under this blow, a new interest, not in the beginning
absorbing, but destined in time to engulf all others, crept at first almost unnoticed into
his life.

He was now thirty-three years old; it was time that he should perform the duty of a French
citizen and should settle down and marry; and as a preliminary, it seemed necessary that Madame
de Berny should no longer continue to occupy her predominant place in his life. She was, as
we know twenty-two years older than he, and was a woman capable not only of romantic attachment,
but also of the most disinterested conduct where her affections were concerned. She saw clearly
that, having formed Balzac, helped him practically, taught him, given him useful introductions--in
short, made him--the time had now come when it would be for his good that she should retire
partially into the background; and she had the courage to conceive, and the power to make,
the sacrifice. He, on his side, felt the idea of the proposed separation keenly, and never
forgot all his life what he owed to the "dilecta," or ceased to feel a deep and faithful affection
for her. Still, for him there were compensations, which did not exist for the woman who was
growing old. He was famous, on the way to attain his goal; and he was regarded as the champion
of misunderstood and misused women. Therefore, as the species has always been a large one,
letters poured in upon him from all parts of Europe--England being the exception--letters telling
him how exactly he had gauged the circumstances, sentiments, and misfortunes of his unknown
correspondents, asking his advice, expressing intense admiration for his writings, and pouring
out the inmost feelings and experiences of the writers. The position was intoxicating for the
man who, a few years before, had been unknown and disregarded; and the fact that Balzac never
forgot his old friendships in the excitement of the adulation lavished upon him, is a proof
that his own belief in the real steadfastness of his character was not mistaken.

Among these unknown correspondents, there were two who specially interested him. One of these
was the Marquise de Castries, who, though rather under a cloud at this time, was one of the
most aristocratic stars of the Faubourg Saint-Germain, and sister-in-law to the Duc de Fitz-James,
with whom Balzac was already connected in several literary undertakings.

As we have already seen, she wrote anonymously towards the end of September, 1831 to complain
of the moral tone of the "Physiologie du Mariage" and of "La Peau de Chagrin." In Balzac's
reply, which was despatched on February 28th, 1832, he thanked her for the proof of confidence
she had shown in making herself known to him, and in wishing for his acquaintance; and said
that he looked forward to many hours spent in her society, hours during which he would not
need to pose as an artist or literary man, but could simply be himself.[*]

[*] "Correspondance," vol. i., p. 141.

Separated from her husband, and a most accomplished coquette, the Marquise was recovering from
a serious love-affair, when she summoned Balzac to afford her amusement and distraction. Delicate
and fragile, her face was rather too long for perfect beauty, but there was something spiritual
and slender about it, which recalled the faces of the Middle Ages. Her health had been shattered
by a hunting accident, and her expression was habitually one of smiling melancholy and of hidden
suffering. Her beautiful Venetian red hair grew above a high white forehead; and in addition
to the attractiveness of her elegant svelte figure, she possessed in the highest degree the
all-powerful seductive influence which we call "charm."

Reclining gracefully in a long chair, she received her intimates in a small simple drawing-room
furnished in old-fashioned style, with cushions of ancient velvet and eighteenth-century screens--a
room instinct with the aristocratic aroma of the Faubourg Saint-Germain. There Balzac went
eagerly during the spring of 1832, and imbibed the strange old-world atmosphere of the exclusive
Faubourg, of which he has given a masterly picture in the "Duchesse de Langeais." In this he
shows that by reason of its selfishness, its divisions, and want of patriotism and large-mindedness,
the Faubourg Saint-Germain had abrogated the proud position it might have held, and was now
an obsolete institution, aloof and cornered, wasting its powers on frivolity and the worship
of etiquette. At first, gratified vanity at his selection as an intimate by so great a lady,
and pleasure at the opportunity given him for the study of what was separated from the ordinary
world by an impassable barrier, were Balzac's chief inducements for frequent visits to the
Rue de Varenne. Gradually, however, the caressing tones of Madame de Castries' voice, the quiet
grace of her language, and her infinite variety, found their way to his heart, and he fell
madly in love.

Speaking of her afterwards in the "Duchesse de Langeais," which was written in the utmost bitterness,
when he had been, according to his own view, led on, played with and deceived by the fascinating
Marquise, Balzac describes her thus: She was "eminently a woman, and essentially a coquette,
Parisian to the core, loving the brilliancy of the world and its amusements, reflecting not
at all, or reflecting too late; of a natural imprudence which rose at times almost to poetic
heights, deliciously insolent, yet humble in the depths of her heart, asserting strength like
a reed erect, but, like the reed, ready to bend beneath a firm hand; talking much of religion,
not loving it, and yet prepared to accept it as a possible finality."

In the same book are several interesting remarks about Armand de Montriveau, the lover of the
Duchesse de Langeais, who is, in many points, Balzac under another name. On one page we read:
"He seemed to have reached some crisis in his life, but all took place within his own breast,
and he confided nothing to the world without." In another place is a description of Montriveau's
appearance. "His head, which was large and square, had the characteristic trait of an abundant
mass of black hair, which surrounded his face in a way that recalled General Kleber, whom indeed
he also resembled in the vigour of his bearing, the shape of his face, the tranquil courage
of his eye, and the expression of inward ardour which shone out through his strong features.
He was of medium height, broad in the chest, and muscular as a lion. When he walked, his carriage,
his step, his least gesture, bespoke a consciousness of power which was imposing; there was
something even despotic about it. He seemed aware that nothing could oppose his will; possibly
because he willed only that which was right. Nevertheless, he was, like all really strong men,
gentle in speech, simple in manner, and naturally kind." Certainly Balzac, as usual, did not
err on the side of modesty!

Curiously enough, the very day--February 28th, 1832--on which Balzac wrote to accept the offer
of the Marquise de Castries' friendship, was the day that the first letter from L'Etrangere
reached him. At first sight there was nothing to distinguish this most momentous letter from
others which came to him by almost every post, or to indicate that it was destined to change
the whole current of his life. It was sent by an unknown woman, and the object of the writer
was, while expressing intense admiration for Balzac's work, to criticise the view of the feminine
sex taken by him in "La Peau de Chagrin." His correspondent begged him to renounce ironical
portrayals of woman, which denied the pure and noble role destined for her by Heaven, and to
return to the lofty ideal of the sex depicted in "Scenes de la Vie Privee."

This letter, which was addressed to Balzac to the care of Gosselin, the publisher of "La Peau
de Chagrin," has never been found. There must have been something remarkable about the wording
and tone of it; as Balzac received many such effusions, but was so much impressed by this one,
and by the communications which followed, that he decided to dedicate "L'Expiation" to his
unknown correspondent. This story he was writing when he received her first letter, and it
formed part of the enlarged edition of the "Scenes de la Vie Privee" which was published in
May, 1832. On communicating this project, however, to Madame de Berny, she strongly objected
to the offer of this extraordinary honour to "L'Etrangere"; and now doubly obedient to her
wishes, and anxious not to hurt her feelings, he abandoned the idea after the book had been
printed. In January, 1833, in his first letter to Madame Hanska, he explained the matter at
length, and sent her a copy which had not been altered, and which had her seal on the title-page.
The book sent her has disappeared; but examining some copies of the second edition of the "Scenes,"
the Vicomte de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul found that a page had been glued against the binding,
and, detaching this carefully, discovered the design of the wax seal, and the dedication "Diis
ignotis, 28th February, 1832,"[*] the date on which Balzac received the first letter from "L'Etrangere."

[*] I have seen this.

This letter gave Balzac many delightful hours, as, when he was able to write to her, he explained
to Madame Hanska. In his pride and satisfaction, he showed it to many friends, Madame Carraud
being among the number; but she, with her usual rather provoking common-sense, refused to share
his enthusiasm, and suggested that it might have been written as a practical joke. To this
insinuation Balzac gave no credence; he naturally found it easy to believe in one more enthusiastic
foreign admirer, and he was seriously troubled by the fact that the first dizain of the "Contes
Drolatiques," which certainly would not satisfy his correspondent's views on the lofty mission
of womanhood, was likely to appear shortly. However, whether she did not read the first dizain
of the "Contes," which appeared in April, 1832, or whether the perusal of them showed her more
strongly than before that Balzac was really in need of good advice, Madame Hanska did not show
her displeasure by breaking off her correspondence with him. Balzac had much to occupy his
mind in 1832, as he was conscientiously, though not successfully, trying to make himself agreeable
to the lady selected as his wife by his family. At the same time, while with regret and trouble
in his heart he tried to relegate Madame de Berny to the position of an ordinary friend, and
felt the delightful agitation, followed by bitter mortification, of his intercourse with Madame
de Castries, we must remember that from time to time he received a flowery epistle from Russia,
written in the turgid and rather bombastic style peculiar to Madame Hanska.

On the other hand, we can imagine the interest and excitement felt by the Chatelaine of Wierzchownia
as she wrote, and secretly dispatched to the well-known author, the sentimental outpourings
of her soul. The composition of these letters must certainly have supplied a savour to a rather
flavourless life; for it was dull in that far-off chateau in Ukraine, which, as Balzac described
it afterwards, was as large as the Louvre, and was surrounded by territories as extensive as
a French Department. There were actually a carcel lamp and a hospital--which seem a curious
conjunction--on the estate, and there were looking-glasses ten feet high in the rooms, but
no hangings on the walls. Possibly Madame Hanska did not miss these, but what she did miss
was society. She, M. de Hanski,[*] Anna's governess, Mlle. Henriette Borel, and last, but not
least, the beloved Anna herself, the only child, on whom Madame Hanska lavished the most passionate
love, were a small party in the chateau; and besides two Polish relations, Mlles Denise and
Severine Wylezynska, who generally inhabited the summer-house, christened by Balzac "La Demoiselliere,"
they were the only civilised people in the midst of a huge waste populated by peasants. M.
de Hanski often suffered from "blue devils," which did not make him a cheerful companion; and
when Madame Hanska had performed a few graceful duties, as chatelaine to the poor of the neighbourhood,
there was no occupation left except reading or writing letters. She was an intelligent and
intellectual woman; and Balzac's novels, not at first fully appreciated in France because of
their deficiencies in style, were eagerly seized on in Germany, Austria, and Russia. She read
them with delight; and her natural desire for action, her longing also to pour out, herself
unknown, the secret aspirations and yearnings of her heart to some one who would understand
her, prompted the first letter; which, according to M. de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul, was dictated
by her to Anna's governess, Mlle. Henriette Borel. So she started lightly on the road which
was to lead her, the leisured and elegant great lady suffering only from ennui, to the period
of her life during which she would toil hour after hour at writing, would be overwhelmed by
business, pestered by duns and creditors, overworked, overburdened, and over-worried. She was
certainly not very fortunate, for she seems never to have experienced the passionate love which
might have made up for everything.

[*] Balzac invariably talks of M. de Hanski and Madame Hanska, as do
    other contemporary writers.

Till the time when she first put herself into communication with Balzac, her life had not been
cheerful. A member of a Polish great family, the Countess Eve Rzewuska was born at the Chateau
of Pohrbyszcze on January 25, 1804 or 1806. She was one of a large family, having three brothers
and three sisters, nearly all of whom played distinguished parts in France or Russia; and her
eldest brother, Count Henry Rzewuski, was one of the most popular writers of Poland. In 1818
or 1822 she married the rich M. Vencelas de Hanski, who was twenty-five years her senior, an
old gentleman of limited mind; pompous, unsociable, and often depressed; but apparently fond
of his wife, and willing to allow her the travelling and society which he did not himself care for.

She was a distinctly different type from the gentle, devoted Madame de Berny, whose French
attributes were modified by the sentiment and romance she inherited from her Teutonic ancestors;
or from Madame de Castries, the fragile and brilliant coquette. Mentally and physically there
was a certain massiveness in Madame Hanska which was absent in her rivals. She was characterised
by an egoism and self-assertiveness unknown to the "dilecta"; while, on the other hand, her
principles were too strong to allow her to use a man as her plaything, as Madame de Castries
had no scruple in doing. Side by side with her tendency to mysticism, she possessed much practical
ability, a capacity for taking the initiative in the affairs of life, as well as considerable
literary and critical power. Balzac had enormous respect for her intellect, and references
to the splendid "analytical" forehead, which must have been a striking feature in her face,
occur as often in his letters as admiring allusions to her pretty dimpled hands, or playful
jokes about her droll French pronunciation. Her miniature by Daffinger,[*] taken in the prime
of her beauty, gives an idea of great energy, strength of will, and intelligence. She is dark,
with a decided mouth, and rather thick lips as red as a child's. Her hair is black, and is
plainly braided at each side of her forehead; her eyes are dark and profound, though with the
vague look of short sight; and her arms and shoulders are beautiful. Altogether she is a handsome
woman, though there are indications of that tendency to embonpoint about which she was always
troubled, and which Balzac, with his usual love of prescribing for his friends, advised her
to combat by daily exercise.

[*] In the possession of the Vicomte de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul.

However, in the spring of 1832, the time which we are considering, Madame Hanska was not even
a name to Balzac; she was merely "L'Etrangere," an unknown woman who might be pretty or ugly,
young or old; but who at any rate possessed the knack--or perhaps the author of "Seraphita"
or of "Louis Lambert" would have said the power by transmutation of thought and sympathy--of
interesting him in the highest degree.

In June, with the hope that absence would loosen the bonds of affection which united him and
Madame de Berny, and with an arriere pensee about another charming personality whom he might
meet on his travels, Balzac left Paris for six months, and began his tour by paying a visit
to M. de Margonne at Sache. There he wrote "Louis Lambert" as a last farewell to Madame de
Berny; and in memory of his ten years' intimacy with her, on the title-page were the dates
1822 and 1832, and underneath the words "Et nunc et semper." The manuscript was sent to her
for criticism, and she wrote a charming letter[*] on receipt of it to Angouleme, where Balzac
was staying with Madame Carraud. In this she shows the utmost tenderness and gentle playfulness;
but while modestly deprecating her power to perform the task he demands from her, which she
says should be entrusted to Madame Carraud, she has the noble disinterestedness to point out
to him where she considers he has erred. She tells him that, after reading the book through
twice, and endeavouring to see it as a whole, she thinks he has undertaken an impossible task,
and that, trying to represent absolute truth in its action, he has attempted what is the province
of God alone. Then, with the utmost tact and delicacy, she touches on a difficult point, and
says that when Goethe and Byron attempt to paint the aspirations of a superior being, we admire
their breadth of view, and wish we could aid them with our minds to reach the unattainable;
but that an author who announces that he has swept to the utmost range of thought shocks us
by his vanity, and she begs Balzac to eliminate certain phrases in his book which sound as
though he had this belief. She finished thus: "Manage, my dear one, that every one shall see
you from everywhere by the height at which you have placed yourself, but do not claim their
admiration, for from all parts strong magnifying-glasses will be turned on you; and what becomes
of the most delightful object when seen through the microscope?" Loving Balzac so tenderly,
growing old so quickly, with Madame de Castries and the unknown Russian ready to seize the
empire which she had abdicated willingly, though at bitter cost, what a temptation it must
have been to leave these words unsaid, and now that she was parting from Balzac to accord him
the unstinted admiration for which he yearned! That Madame de Berny thought of him only, of
herself not at all, speaks volumes for the nobility and purity of her love, and we again feel
that the "predilecta" never rose to her heights, and that to his first love belongs the credit
of "creating" Balzac.

[*] See "La Jeunesse de Balzac," by MM. Hanotaux and Vicaire, p. 74.

During Balzac's absence from Paris, Madame de Balzac, who was installed in his rooms in the
Rue Cassini, appears in quite a new light, and one which leads to the suspicion that the much-abused
lady was not quite as black as she had been painted. The hard and heartless mother is now transmogrified
into the patient and indefatigable runner of errands; and we must admire the business capacity,
as well as bodily strength, which Madame de Balzac showed in carrying out her son's various
behests. In one letter alone she was enjoined to carry out the following directions[*]: (1)
She was to copy out an article in the Silhouette, which she would find on the second shelf
for quartos near the door in Balzac's room. (2) She was to send him her copy of "Contes Drolatiques,"
and also "Les Chouans," which she would receive corrected from Madame de Berny. Furthermore,
she was told to dress in her best and go to the library, taking with her the third and fourth
volumes of "Scenes de la Vie Privee," as a present to M. de Manne, the librarian. She was then
to hunt in the "Biographie Universelle" under B or P for Bernard Palissy, read the article,
make a note of all books mentioned in it as written by him or about him, and ask M. de Manne
for them. Next, Laure was to be visited, as the "Biographie," which had formerly belonged to
old M. de Balzac, was at her house; and the works on Palissy mentioned in that must be compared
carefully with those already noted down; and if fresh names were found, another visit must
be paid to the librarian. If he did not possess all the books and they were not very dear,
they were to be bought. A visit to Gosselin was to be the next excursion for poor Madame de
Balzac, who apparently walked everywhere to save hackney carriage fares; and as minor matters
she must send a letter he enclosed to its destination, and see that the groom exercised the
horses every day.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. i. p. 153.

Certainly, if Balzac worked like a galley slave himself, he also kept his relations well employed;
but Madame de Balzac apparently did everything contentedly, in the hope, as a good business
woman, that the debts would at last be paid off; and though there were occasional breezes,
the relations between her and her son were cordial at this time. Possibly she was pleased at
his removal from the influence of Madame de Berny, of whom she was always jealous; and certainly
she was delighted at the idea of his marriage. The intended daughter-in-law, whose name is
never mentioned, was evidently a widow with a fortune, so the affair was highly satisfactory.
The lady was expected to pay a visit to Mere, near Sache; and Balzac felt obliged to go there
three times a week to see whether she had arrived--a duty which interfered sadly with his work.
If he seemed likely to prosper in his suit, she was to be impressed by the sight of his groom
and horses. However, this matrimonial business transaction was not successful, as we hear nothing
more of it, and the next direction his mother receives is to the effect that she had better
sell all his stable equipage.

Whether Madame de Balzac resented these demands on her, or whether she was disgusted at Balzac's
failure to secure a rich wife, and thus put an end to the family troubles, we do not know;
but when he returned to Paris at the end of the year, to his great disappointment she refused
to live with him, and left him alone when he sorely needed sympathy and consolation.

It is curiously characteristic of Balzac, that at this very time, when in secret he contemplates
marriage, he writes to Madame Carraud that he is going to Aix to run after some one who will
perhaps laugh at him --one of those aristocratic women she would no doubt hold in abhorrence:
"An angel beauty in whom one imagines a beautiful soul, a true duchess, very disdainful, very
loving, delicate, witty, a coquette, a novelty to me! One of those phenomena who efface themselves
from time to time, and who says she loves me, who wishes to keep me with her in a palace at
Venice (for I tell you everything) --who wishes that I shall in future write only for her,
one of those women one must worship on one's knees if she desires it, and whom one has the
utmost pleasure in conquering--a dream woman! Jealous of everything! Ah, it would be better
to be at Angouleme at the Poudrerie, very sensible, very quiet, listening to the mills working,
making oneself sticky with truffles, learning from you how to pocket a billiard-ball, laughing
and talking, than to lose both time and life!"[*]

[*] "Correspondance," vol. i. p. 161.

After his stay at Sache, Balzac went on to the Poudrerie, where he became ill from overwork,
and wrote to his sister that a journey was quite necessary for his health. On August 22nd he
started from Angouleme, having borrowed 150 francs from M. Carraud to take him as far as Lyons.
He had already spent the 100 francs sent him by his mother, and he expected to find 300 francs
more awaiting him at Lyons. There he arrived on the 25th, having unfortunately fallen in mounting
the imperial of the diligence, and grazed his shin against the footboard thus making a small
hole in the bone. However, we can appreciate the excellent reasons which led him to the conclusion
that, in spite of the inflammation in his leg, it would be wise to press on at once to Aix.
When he arrived there, on August 26th, he was evidently rewarded by a very cordial greeting
from the Marquise; as, the day after, he wrote a most affectionate and joyful letter to his
mother, thanking her in the warmest terms for all she had done, and for the pleasure she had
procured him by enabling him to take this journey.

He was now established in a simple little room, with a view over the lovely valley of the Lac
du Bourget; he got up each morning at half-past five, and worked from then till half-past five
in the evening, his dejeuner being sent in from the club, and Madame de Castries providing
him with excellent coffee, that primary necessity of his existence. At six he dined with her,
and they spent the evening till eleven o'clock together. It was an exciting drama that went
on during those long tete-a-tetes. On one side was the accomplished coquette, possibly only
determined to make a plaything of the man of genius, to charm him and keep him at her feet;
or perhaps with a lurking hope that her skilful game would turn to earnestness, and that in
the course of it she would manage to forget that charming young Metternich who died at Florence
and left her inconsolable. On the other was Balzac, his senses bewildered by passionate love,
but his acuteness and knowledge of human nature not allowing him to be altogether deceived;
so that he writes to Madame Carraud: "She is the most delicate type of woman--Madame de Beauseant,
only better; but are not all these pretty manners exercised at the expense of the heart?"[*]
Nevertheless, these were only passing doubts: he could not really believe that she would behave
as she was doing if there were no love for him in her heart, and he pursued his suit with the
intense ardour natural to him. Occasionally she became alarmed, and tried to rebuff him by
a cold, irritable manner; but he continued to treat her with the utmost gentleness. No doubt,
she was not altogether without feeling: an absolutely cold woman could not have exercised dominion
over a man of the stamp of Balzac; and though she is always represented as playing a game,
probably there were agitations, doubts, questionings, and possibly real trouble, on her side,
as well as on that of Balzac. At any rate, the admirer of his novels may give her the benefit
of the doubt, and remember in gratitude that she undoubtedly added to the gamut of the great
psychologist's emotions, and therefore increased his knowledge of the human heart, and the
truth and vividness of his books. Balzac, who spoke of the "doleurs qui font trop vivre," plunged
very deeply into the learning of the school of life at this time.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. i. p. 195.

Madame de Castries, with her brother-in-law, the Duc de Fitz-James and his family, had settled
to leave Aix on October 10th, and to travel in Italy, visiting Rome and Naples; and they had
been anxious that Balzac should be one of the party. At first Balzac only spoke of this vaguely,
because of the question of money; but as pecuniary matters were never allowed to interfere
with anything he really wanted to do, his mother cannot have been surprised to receive a letter
written on September 23rd, telling her that the matter was settled, and that he was going to
Italy.[*] As she would naturally ask how this was to be managed, he explains that he will put
off paying a debt of 500 francs, and that, being only responsible for a fourth share in the
hire of Madame de Castries' carriage, this money would suffice for his expenses as far as Rome.
There he will require 500 francs, and the same amount again at Naples; but this money will
be gained by the "Medecin de Campagne," and he will only ask Madame de Balzac for 500 francs--without
which he will perhaps, after all, manage--to bring him back from Naples in March. On September
30th he writes to M. Mame, the publisher, to tell him about the nearly-finished "Medecin de
Campagne," and still talks of his projected journey; but on October 9th, as a result of Madame
de Castries' behaviour towards him, he has left her at Aix, and is himself at Annecy, and on
October 16th he has travelled on to Geneva. His only explanation for his sudden change of plan
is a vague remark to his mother about the 1,000 francs required for the journey,[+] and about
the difficulty of publishing books while he is away from France; while on the real reason of
his change of plan he is absolutely silent. Before the end of 1832 he is back in Paris, and
in spite of his success and celebrity is probably passing through the bitterest months of his life.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. i. p. 202.

[+] "Correspondance," vol. i. p. 220.

                             CHAPTER VIII

                             1832 - 1835

  Advertisement in the Quotidienne--Letters between Balzac and
  Madame Hanska--His growing attachment to her--Meeting at
  Neufchatel--Return to Paris--Work--"Etudes de Moeurs au XIXieme
  Siecle"--"Le Medecin de Campagne"--"Eugenie Grandet"--Meets Madame
  Hanska at Vienna--"La Duchesse de Langeais"--Balzac's enormous
  power of work--"La Recherche de l'Absolu"--"Le Pere Goriot"
  --Vienna--Monetary difficulties--Republishes romantic novels
  --Continual debt--Amusements.

Meanwhile, during the tragic drama of the downfall of poor Balzac's high hopes, Madame Hanska
continued to write steadily; but she was becoming tired of receiving no answer to her letters,
and of not even knowing whether or no they had reached their destination. Therefore she wrote
on November 7th, 1832, to ask Balzac for a little message in the Quotidienne, which she took
in regularly, to say that he had received her letters; and Balzac, in reply, inserted the following
notice in the Quotidienne of December 9th, 1832. "M. de B. has received the message sent him;
he can only to-day give information of this through a newspaper, and regrets that he does not
know where to address his answer. To. L'E.--H. de B."[*]

[*] A copy of the Quotidienne with this advertisement is in the
    possession of the Vicomte de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul, and I have
    seen it.

After this, it is amusing to see that Balzac was most particular in impressing on his publishers
the necessity of advertising his forthcoming works in the Quotidienne, one of the few French
papers allowed admission into Russia. On the other hand, the receipt of the Quotidienne with
this announcement made Madame Hanska so bold, that in a letter dated January 9th, 1833, she
gave Balzac the welcome information that she and M. de Hanski were leaving Ukraine for a time,
and coming nearer France; and that she would indicate to him some way of corresponding with
her secretly. As this is the last of her letters that can be found, we do not know what method
she pointed out to Balzac; and his first letter to her is dated January, 1833, and after their
meeting at Neufchatel in September, he wrote a short account of his day every evening to his
beloved one, and once in eight days he despatched this journal to its destination. As he kept
to this plan with only occasional interruptions whenever he was absent from her, till his marriage
four months before his death, these letters, some of which are published in a volume called
"Lettres a l'Etrangere," form a most valuable record of his life. In one of the first, it is
interesting to see that he is obliged to soothe her uneasiness at the strange variety of his
handwritings, as Madame Carraud had answered one of her letters in his name; and to allay her
suspicions, he makes the rather unlikely explanation, that he has as many writings as there
are days in the year. In the future, however, her letters are sacred, no eye but his own being
permitted to gaze on them; and with his usual reticence where his feelings are seriously involved,
he ceases to mention to his friends his correspondent in far Ukraine.

A little later he comments with joy on the fact that Madame Hanska has sent him a copy of the
"Imitation of Christ,"[*] which represents our Lord on the cross, just as he is writing "Le
Medecin de Campagne," which portrays the bearing of the cross by resignation, and love, faith
in the future, and the spreading around of the perfume of good deeds. To Balzac, believer in
the power of the transmission of thought, this coincidence was of good augury.

[*] "Lettres a l'Etrangere."

All this time he had not forgotten Madame de Berny, or the faithless Madame de Castries; and
is profoundly miserable. On January 1st, 1833, he writes to his faithful friend, Madame Carraud,
to pour out his troubles, and says: "In vain I try to transfer my life to my brain; nature
has given me too much heart, and in spite of everything, more than enough for ten men is left.
Therefore I suffer. All the more because chance made me know happiness in all its moral extent,
while depriving me of sensual beauty. She" (Madame de Berny) "gave me a true love which must
finish. This is horrible! I go through troubles and tempests which no one knows of. I have
no distractions. Nothing refreshes this heat, which spreads and will perhaps devour me." He
then passes on to Madame de Castries, and continues: "An unheard-of coldness has succeeded
gradually to what I thought was passion, in a woman who came to me rather nobly."[*] In a letter
to Madame Hanska, speaking of Madame de Castries, though he does not name her, he says: "She
causes me suffering, but I do not judge her.

[+] "Lettres a l'Etrangere."

Gradually, however, the new love gained ground; though at first Balzac showed that nervous
dread of repetition of pain which was, in a man of his buoyancy and self-confidence, the last
expression of depression and disillusionment. "I trembled in writing to you. I said to myself:
'Will this be only a new bitterness? Will the skies open to me again, for me only to be driven
from them?'"[*] Nevertheless, passages such as the following, even taking into account the
sentimental tone Balzac always adopted to his female correspondents, show that he was not destined
to remain permanently inconsolable.

In these words he gives himself the explanation of his overmastering love for Madame Hanska,
a love which seems to have puzzled his contemporaries and some of his subsequent biographers.
The man with the passionate nature, who cried in his youth for the satisfaction of his two
immense desires--to be celebrated and to be loved--soon found the emptiness of the life of
fame alone; and Madame Hanska, dowered with all that he longed for, came into his life at the
psychological moment when he had broken with the old love, born into the world too soon, and
had suffered bitterly at the cruel hands of the new. He turned to her with a rapture of new
hope in the glories that might rise for him; and through trouble, disappointment and delay,
he never once wavered in his allegiance.

In the early spring of 1833, the Hanski family, after no doubt many preparations, and surrounded
by a great paraphernalia--for travelling in those days was a serious matter--started on the
journey about which Madame Hanska had already told Balzac. Neufchatel was their destination;
and through Mlle Henriette Borel, Anna's governess, who was a native of the place, and Madame
Hanska's confidante, the Villa Andrie, in the Faubourg, just opposite the Hotel du Faubourg,
was secured for them. Mlle Borel was a most useful person, as she always went to the post to
claim Balzac's letters, and through Madame Hanska he sends her many directions, and specially
enjoins great caution. We are told[*] that she was so much struck by the solemnities at M.
de Hanski's funeral--the lights, the songs, and the national costumes --that she decided to
abjure the Protestant faith, and that in 1843 she took the veil.

[*] "Balzac a Neufchatel," by M. Bachelin.

From Neufchatel, Madame Hanska sent Balzac her exact address; and as he had really settled
to go to Besancon in his search for inexpensive paper to enable him to carry out his grand
scheme for an universal cheap library, it was settled that, travelling ostensibly for this
purpose, he should go for a few days to Neufchatel, and meet Madame Hanska. He therefore wrote
to Charles de Bernard, at Besancon, to ask him to take a place for him in the diligence to
Neufchatel, on September 25th, 1833; and it is easy to imagine his qualms of anxiety, and yet
joyful excitement, when he left Paris on the 22nd, and started on his fateful journey. At Neufchatel,
he went to the Hotel du Faucon,[*] in the centre of the town, but found a note begging him
to be on the Promenade du Faubourg next day from one to four; and he at once removed to the
Hotel du Faubourg, so that he might be near the Villa Andrie. Madame Hanska no doubt shared
to a certain extent his tremors of anticipation; but as a beauty and great lady she would naturally
feel more confident than Balzac--especially when she had donned with care her most elegant
and becoming toilette, and felt armed at every point for the encounter.

[*] "Un Roman d'Amour," by the Vicomte de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul,
    p. 75.

The Promenade du Faubourg at Neufchatel overlooks the lake, and is terminated by a promontory
known as the Cret, a splendid point of vantage, whence there is a view of the Villa Andrie
and over the gardens of the Hotel du Faubourg. Here, on the afternoon of September 26th, 1833,
among others strollers, were two who might have seemed to an observant eye to be waiting for
somebody: one was a stout, inelegant little man, with something bizarre about his costume,
and the other a dark, handsome lady, dressed in the height of fashion, and perhaps known to
some of the loungers as the rich Russian Countess. The manner of their meeting is uncertain;
but whether Madame Hanska, with one of Balzac's novels in her hand, recognised him at once
and rushed towards him joyously, or whether, as another story goes, she was at first disenchanted
by his unromantic appearance and drew back, matters little.[*] In either case, according to
Balzac's letter to his sister written on his return to Paris, they exchanged their first kiss
under the shade of a great oak in the Val de Travers, and swore to wait for each other; and
he speaks rapturously of Madame Hanska's beautiful black hair, of her fine dark skin and her
pretty little hands. He mentions, too, her colossal riches, though these do not of course count
beside her personal charms; but the remark is characteristic, and Balzac's pride and exultation
are very apparent.[+] At last he has found his "grande dame," endowed with youth, beauty and
riches, one who would not be ashamed to live with him in a garret, and yet would, by her birth,
be able to hold her own in the most exclusive society in the world.

[+] I have seen in M. de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul's collection, the
    autograph of the whole of this letter as quoted in the "Roman
    d'Amour."

He is specially pleased, too, that he has succeeded in charming Madame Hanska's husband, to
whom he was apparently introduced at once, though we do not know by what means. Certainly M.
de Hanski appears to have felt a warm liking for the great writer, who charmed him and made
him laugh by his amusing talk, kept his blue devils at bay, sent him first copies of his books,
and sympathised with his views on political matters. M. de Hanski was also much flattered by
Balzac's friendship for his wife, and would finish a polite and stilted epistle by saying that
he need trouble Balzac no more, as he knows his wife is at the same time writing him one of
her long chattering letters. Even when, by sad mischance, two of Balzac's love-letters fell
into M. de Hanski's hands, and the great writer was forced to stoop to the pretence that they
were written in jest, the husband seems to have accepted the explanation, and not to have troubled
further about the matter. Later on, he sent Balzac a magnificent inkstand as a present, which
the recipient rather ungratefully remarked required palatial surroundings, and was too grand
for his use.

On October 1st, the happy time at Neufchatel came to an end, as the Hanskis were leaving that
day, and Balzac's work awaited him in Paris. He got up at five o'clock on the morning of his
departure, and went on to the promontory, whence he could gaze at the Villa Andrie, in the
vain hope of a last meeting with Madame Hanska; but to his disappointment the Villa was absolutely
quiet, no one was stirring. He had a most uncomfortable journey back, for everything was so
crowded that fifteen or sixteen intending passengers were refused at each town; and as Charles
de Bernard had not been able to secure a place for him in the mail coach, he was obliged to
travel in the imperial of the diligence with five Swiss, who treated him as though he were
an animal going to the market, and he arrived in Paris bruised all over.

In Balzac's letters after his return to Paris there is much mention of his enjoyment of the
Swiss scenery, which is after all only Madame Hanska under another name; but he is absolutely
discreet, and never speaks of the lady herself. He is redoubling his work, on the chance of
managing to pay her another visit. "For a month longer, prodigies of work, to enable me to
see you. You are in all my thoughts, in all the lines that I shall trace, in all the moments
of my life, in all my being, in my hair which grows for you."[*]

[*] "Lettres a l'Etrangere."

Fortunately the long years of waiting, the anxieties, the hope constantly deferred, the pangs
of unequally matched affection, and at last the short and imperfect fruition, were hidden from
him. Henceforward everything in his life refers to Madame Hanska, and he waits patiently for
his hoped-for union with her. His deference to his absent friend, his fear of her disapproval,
his admiration for her perfections, are half pathetic and half comical.

Though she does not appear to have been strait-laced in her reading, he is terribly afraid
of falling in her estimation by what he writes, and he explains anxiously that such books as
"Le Medecin de Campagne" or "Seraphita" show him in his true light, and that the "Physiologie
du Mariage" is really written in defence of women. The "Contes Drolatiques" he is also nervous
about, and he is much agitated when he hears that she has read some of them without his permission.

He is not always quite candid, and the reader of "Lettres a l'Etrangere" may safely surmise
that there is a little picturesque exaggeration in his account of the solitary life he leads;
and that Madame Hanska had occasionally good reason for her reproaches at the reports she heard,
though Balzac always replies to these complaints with a most touching display of injured innocence.
Nevertheless, the "Lettres a l'Etrangere" are the record of a faithful and ever-growing love,
and there is much in them which must increase the reader's admiration for Balzac.

The year 1833 was a prosperous one with him, as in October he sold to the publisher, Madame
Charles Bechet, for 27,000 francs, an edition of "Etudes de Moeurs au XIXieme Siecle" in twelve
octavo volumes, consisting of the third edition of "Scenes de la Vie Privee," the first of
"Scenes de la Vie de Province," and the first part of the "Scenes de la Vie Parisienne." The
last volume of this edition did not appear till 1837, and before that time Balzac had taken
further strides towards his grand conception of the Comedie Humaine. In October, 1834,[*] he
writes to Madame Hanska that the "Etudes de Moeurs," in which is traced thread by thread the
history of the human heart, is only to be the base of the structure; and that next, in the
"Etudes Philosophiques," he will go back from effect to cause, from the feelings, their life
and way of working, to the conditions behind them on which life, society, and man have their
being; and that having described society, he will in the "Etudes Philosophiques" judge it.
In the "Etudes de Moeurs" types will be formed from individuals, in the "Etudes Philosophiques"
individuals from types. Then, after effects and causes, will come principles, in the "Etudes
Analytiques." "Les moeurs sont le spectacle, les causes son les coulisses et les machines,
et les principes c'est l'auteur." When this great palace is at last completed, he will write
the science of it in "L'Essai sur les Forces Humaines"; and on the base, he, a child and a
laugher, will trace the immense arabesque of the "Contes Drolatiques," those Rabelaisian stories
in old French tracing the progress of the language, which he often declared would be his principal
claim to fame. In 1842 the name "La Comedie Humaine" was after much consideration given to
the whole structure, and in the preface he explains this title by saying: "The vastness of
a plan which includes Society's history and criticism, the analysis of its evils, the discussion
of its principles, justifies me, I think, in giving to my work the name under which it is appearing
to-day--'The Human Comedy.' Pretentious, is it? Is it not rather true? That is a question for
the public to decide when the work is finished."

[*] "Lettres a l'Etrangere."

Unfortunately, in spite of the fact that in twelve years, from 1830 to 1842, Balzac wrote seventy-nine
novels--an enormous number, especially remembering the fact that during the same time he published
tales and numberless articles--the great work was never finished; and the last philosophical
study, which was entitled "The Marquis of Carabbas," and was to treat of the life of nations,
was not even begun.

However, in 1833, when he really started the germ of his life-work, he, like his father, had
the idea that he would live to an enormous age; and he was in high spirits about the pecuniary
side of his transaction with Madame Bechet.

Except for what he owes his mother, in seven months he will be free of debt, he cries rapturously;
but it is hardly necessary to mention that this happy time of deliverance never did arrive.
Indeed, we are scarcely surprised, when he writes on November 20th, to say that his affairs
are in the most deplorable condition; that he has just sent four thousand francs, his last
resource, to Mame, the publisher, and is as poor as Job; with one lawsuit going on, and another
beginning for which he requires twelve hundred francs. His chronic state of disagreement with
Emile de Girardin, editor of La Presse, had at this time, in spite of Madame de Girardin's
attempts at mediation, become acute; so that they nearly fought a duel. The year before, as
we have already seen, he had quarrelled with his former friend, Amedee Pichot, and had deserted
the Revue de Paris, so his business relations were, as usual, not very happy.

However, he was at first much pleased with Madame Bechet, who, with unexpected liberality,
herself paid 4000 francs for corrections; and in July, 1834, he got rid of publisher Gosselin,
whom he politely designates as a "nightmare of silliness," and a "rost-beaf ambulant," and
started business with Werdet, not yet the "vulture who fed on Prometheus," but an excellent
young man, somewhat resembling "l'illustre Gaudissart," full of devotion and energy.

The year 1833 was rich in masterpieces. In September appeared "Le Medecin de Campagne," with
its motto, "For wounded souls, shade and silence"; and though, like "Louis Lambert," it was
not at first a success, later on its true value was realised; and the hero, the good Dr. Benassis,
is one of Balzac's purest and most noble creations. It was followed in December by "Eugenie
Grandet," a masterpiece of Dutch genre, immortalised by the vivid vitality of old Grandet,
that type of modern miser who, in contradistinction to Moliere's Harpagon, enjoyed universal
respect and admiration, his fortune being to some people in his province "the object of patriotic
pride." The book raised such a storm of enthusiasm, that Balzac became jealous for the fame
of his other works, and would cry indignantly: "Those who call me the father of Eugenie Grandet
wish to belittle me. It is a masterpiece, I know; but it is a little masterpiece; they are
very careful not to mention the great ones."[*] This, which is the best known and most generally
admired of Balzac's novels, is dedicated by a strange irony of fate to Maria, whose identity
has never been discovered; the only fact really known about her being her pathetic request
to Balzac, that he would love her just for a year, and she would love him for all eternity.
She did not, however, have undisputed possession of even the short time she longed for, as
Madame Hanska's all-conquering influence was in the ascendant; but, as Balzac was always discreet,
perhaps poor Maria was not aware of this.

In the midst of the acclamations and congratulations on the appearance of "Eugenie Grandet,"
Balzac again left Paris, and went to Geneva, where he arrived on December 25th, 1833. He left
for Paris on February 8th, having spent six weeks with the Hanski family. During this time
a definite promise was made by Madame Hanska, that she would marry him if she became a widow.
"Adoremus in aeternum" was their motto; he was her humble "moujik," and she was his "predilecta,
his love, his life, his only thought."[*]

[*] "Lettres a l'Etrangere."

Curiously enough, his occupation in Geneva, in the rapture of his newly-found happiness, was
to write the "Duchesse de Langeais," by which he intended to revenge himself on Madame de Castries,
though he could not help, in his book, making her turn to him at last, when it was too late.
The wound was still smarting. He detests and despises her, he says; and the only words of spitefulness
recorded in his generous, large-minded life, are when he mentions, with pretended pity, that
owing to ill-health she has completely lost her beauty. In spite of this outburst, however,
we find that he came forward later on, and helped her with much energy when she was in difficulties.
He never had the satisfaction of knowing whether she were punished or not; as when he showed
her the book before it was published, with the ostensible reason of wishing her to disarm the
Faubourg St. Germain, which is severely criticised in its pages, she professed much admiration
for it.

Meanwhile, Madame de Berny was beginning the slow process of dying; and Balzac speaks constantly
with trouble of her failing health, and of the heart disease from which she suffered, and which,
with her usual unselfishness, she tried to conceal from him. She was too ill now to correct
his proofs, and her family circumstances were, as we have already seen, very miserable; so
that her life was closing sadly. In January, 1835, Balzac spent eight days with her at La Boulonniere,
near Nemours, working hard all the time; and was horrified to find her so ill, that even the
pleasure of reading his books brought on severe heart attacks.

His life at this time was enormously busy; the passion for work had him in its grip, and even
his robust constitution suffered from the enormous strain to which he subjected it by his constant
abuse of coffee, which caused intense nervous irritation; and by the short hours of sleep he
allowed himself. He never rested for a moment, he was never indifferent for a moment, his faculties
were constantly on the stretch, and Dr. Nacquart remonstrated in vain. In August, 1834, he
was attacked by slight congestion of the brain, and imperatively ordered two months' rest;
which, of course, he did not take; and now from time to time, in his letters, occur entries
of sinister omen, about symptoms of illness, and doctor's neglected advice. In October "La
Recherche de l'Absolu" appeared, and instead of greeting it with the enthusiasm he usually
accorded to his books, he remarked to Madame Hanska that he hoped it was good, but that he
was too tired to judge. However, by December of the same year, when "Le Pere Goriot" was published,
he had to a certain extent recovered his elasticity, and said that it was a beautiful work,
though terribly sad, and showed the moral corruption of Paris like a disgusting wound. A few
days later he became more enthusiastic, and wrote: "You will be very proud of 'Le Pere Goriot.'
My friends insist that nothing is comparable to it, and that it is above all my other compositions."[*]
Certainly the vivid portrait of old Goriot, that ignoble King Lear, who in his extraordinary
passion of paternal love rouses our sympathy, in spite of his many absurdities and shortcomings,
is a striking instance of Balzac's power in the creation of type.

[*] "Lettres a l'Etrangere."

He was straining every nerve to be able to meet Madame Hanska in Vienna; but with all his efforts
his journey was put off month after month, and it was not till May 9th, 1835, that he was at
last able to start. He arrived at Vienna on the 16th; having hired a post carriage for the
journey, a little extravagance which cost him 15,000 francs. His stay there was not a rest,
as, to Madame Hanska's annoyance, he worked twelve hours a day at "Le Lys dans la Vallee,"
and explained to her that he was doing a good deal in thus sacrificing three hours a day for
her sake--fifteen hours out of the twenty-four being his usual time for labour. He visited
Munich on his way back, and arrived in Paris on June 11th, to find a crowd of creditors awaiting
his arrival, and his pecuniary affairs in terrible confusion. Owing, he considered, to the
machinations of his enemies, articles had appeared in different papers announcing that he had
been imprisoned for debt--a report which naturally ruined his credit, and caused a general
gathering of those to whom he owed money. It was not a pleasant home-coming; as Werdet and
Madame Bechet were in utter despair, and reproached Balzac bitterly for his absence, while
all his silver had been pawned by his sister to pay his most pressing liabilities.

It is curious about this time to notice the reappearance of the early romantic novels, "Jane
la Pale," "La Derniere Fee," and their fellows.[*] Balzac, as we have seen was in terrible
straits for money, and he knew that the Belgians, who at this time practised the most shameless
piracy, would reprint the books for their own advantage, if he did not. Therefore, in self-defence,
he determined to bring out an edition himself; though, as he consistently refused to acknowledge
the authorship of these despised productions, the treaty was drawn up in the name of friends.
Nevertheless, with his usual caution, he drew up a secret document which was signed by M. Regnault,
one of those in whose name the sale to the publisher was arranged, to the effect that the works
of the late Horace de Saint-Aubin were really the property of M. de Balzac. "L'Heritiere de
Birague" and "Jean Louis" did not appear in this edition, probably owing to the intervention
of M. Le Poitevin, who considered them partly his property; but they were published with the
others in an edition printed in 1853, after a lawsuit between Balzac's widow and his early
collaborator.

The condition of the whole Balzac family at the close of 1835 was tragic, M. Henri, back from
abroad, and utterly incapable, as Balzac says, of doing anything, talked of blowing out his
brains; Madame Surville was ill, Madame Balzac's reason or life was despaired of; and Balzac
chose this time to consult a somnambulist about Madame Hanska, and was told the distressing
news that she was in anxiety of some sort, and that her heart was enlarged! Fortunately, in
October, 1835, the Hanski family returned to Wierzchownia, and the constant worry to Balzac
of their proximity to France was removed for the time.

In December another misfortune befell Balzac. A fire broke out at the printing office in the
Rue du Pot-de-Fer, and burnt the first hundred and sixty pages of the third dizain of the "Contes
Drolatiques," as well as five hundred volumes of the first and second dizain, which had cost
him four francs each. He thus lost 3,500 francs, and to add to the calamity, did not receive
the sum of 6,000 francs which in the ordinary course of events would have been due to him at
the end of the year, when but for this disaster he would have handed over the third dizain
to Werdet and an associate.

Figures and sums of money occur constantly in Balzac's letters; but his accounts of his pecuniary
affairs are so conflicting and so complicated that it is impossible to understand them; indeed
it is doubtful whether he ever mastered them himself, as he continually expected to be out
of debt in a few months. According to his own story to Madame Hanska, he left the printing
office owing 100,000 francs, had to find 6,000 francs a year for interest on this debt, and
required 3,000 francs to live on; while in 1828, 1829, and 1830, he only made 3,000 francs
each year, so that in three years he had increased his debt by 24,000 francs. In 1830 the Revolution
caused general disaster among the publishers, and "La Peau de Chagrin" only made 700 francs,
so that in 1830 and 1831 Balzac had an income of only 10,000 francs a year, and had to pay
out 18,000 francs. From 1833 to 1836 he received 10,000 francs a year by his treaty with Madame
Bechet; 6,000 of this he paid in interest on his debt, while 4,000 apparently remained to live
on. However, between the fire in the Rue du Pot-de-Fer, Werdet's delinquencies, the failure
of the Chronique, and the sums paid back to publishers who had advanced money on arrangements
Balzac cancelled to fulfil this new agreement, hardly anything was left; and in 1837 he owed
162,000 francs.

In August, 1835, he describes his life thus[*]: "Work, always work! Heated nights succeed heated
nights, days of meditation days of meditation; from execution to conception, from conception
to execution! Little money compared with what I want, much money compared with production.
If each of my books were paid like those of Walter Scott, I should manage; but although well
paid, I do not attain my goal. I received 8,000 francs for the 'Lys'; half of this came from
the publisher, half from the Revue de Paris. The article in the Conservateur will pay me 3,000
francs. I shall have finished 'Seraphita,' begun 'Les Memoires de Deux Jeunes Mariees,' and
finished Mme. Bechet's edition. I do not know whether a brain, pen, and hand will ever before
have accomplished such a 'tour de force' with the help of a bottle of ink."

[*] "Lettres a l'Etrangere."

As it is impossible for even a Balzac to live without relaxation, even if he goes without rest,
what, may we ask, were his recreations at this time? In the first place he often went to the
theatre; and he was passionately fond of music, occupying a place in the box at the Italian
Opera, which was reserved specially for dandies. One of his extravagances was a dinner at which
he entertained the five other "tigres," as the occupants of this box were nicknamed, and Rossini,
Olympe Pelissier, Nodier, Sandeau, and Bohain. At this banquet, the most sumptuous fare and
the most exquisite wines were provided for the guests, and the table was decked with the rarest
flowers. Balzac enjoyed the festivity immensely, as well as the eclat which followed it; and
relates with delight that all Paris was talking of it, and that Rossini said he had not seen
more magnificence when he dined at royal tables.

However busy he was, he never completely deprived himself of the pleasure of listening to music;
though on one occasion he remarks regretfully, that he has been obliged to limit his attendance
at the Opera to two visits each month; and on another, that he has been so overwhelmed with
business that he has not been able even to have a bath, or go to the Italian Opera, two things
that are more necessary to him than bread. His works abound in references to his beloved art,
and when he was writing "Massimilla Doni" he employed a professional musician to instruct him
about it. Beethoven, in particular, he speaks of with the utmost enthusiasm, and after hearing
his "Symphony in Ut mineur," he says that the great musician is the only person who makes him
feel jealous, and that he prefers him even to Rossini and Mozart. "The spirit of the writer,"
he says, "cannot give such enjoyment, because what we print is finished and determined, whereas
Beethoven wafts his audience to the infinite."[*]

[*] "Lettres a l'Etrangere."

The other amusements of this great thinker and seer would strike the reader as strange, if
he did not perhaps, by this time, realise that no anomaly need surprise him in Balzac's extraordinary
personality.

He writes to Madame Hanska[*]: "As to my joys, they are innocent. They consist in new furniture
for my room, a cane which makes all Paris chatter, a divine opera-glass, which my workers have
had made by the optician at the Observatory; also the gold buttons on my new coat, buttons
chiselled by the hand of a fairy, for the man who carries a cane worthy of Louis XIV. in the
nineteenth century cannot wear ignoble pinchbeck buttons. These are little innocent toys, which
make me considered a millionaire. I have created the sect of the 'Cannophiles' in the world
of fashion, and every one thinks me utterly frivolous. This amuses me!" Certainly Balzac was
not wrong when he told his correspondent that there was much of the child in him.

[*] "Lettres a l'Etrangere."

                              CHAPTER IX

                          NO PARTICULAR DATE

  Balzac's portrait as described by Gautier--His character--Belief
  in magnetism and somnambulism--His attempts to become deputy--His
  political and religious views.

In the Salon of 1837 appeared a portrait of Balzac by Boulanger,[*] of which Theophile Gautier
gave the following description in La Presse: "M. de Balzac is not precisely beautiful. His
features are irregular; he is fat and short. Here is a summary which does not seem to lend
itself to a painting, but this is only the reverse of the medal. The life and ardour reflected
in the whole face give it a special beauty.

"In this portrait, M. de Balzac, enveloped in the large folds of a monk's habit, sits with
his arms crossed, in a calm and strong attitude; the neck is uncovered, the look firm and direct;
the light, shining from above, illumines the satin-like smoothness of the upper parts of the
forehead, and throws a bright light on the bumps of imagination and humour, which are strongly
developed in M. de Balzac; the black hair, also lit up, shining and radiant, comes from the
temples in bright waves, and gives singular light to the top of the head; the eyes steeped
in a golden penumbra with tawny eyeballs, on a moist and blue crystalline lens like that of
a child, send out a glance of astonishing acuteness; the nose, divided into abrupt polished
flat places, breathes strongly and passionately, through large red nostrils; the mouth, large
and voluptuous, particularly in the lower lip, smiles with a rabelaisian smile under the shade
of a moustache much lighter in colour than the hair; and the chin, slightly raised, is attached
to the throat by a fold of flesh, ample and strong, which resembles the dewlap of a young bull.
The throat itself is of athletic and rare strength, the plump full cheeks are touched with
the vermilion of nervous health, and all the flesh tints are resplendent with the most joyful
and reassuring brilliancy.

"In this monk's and soldier's head there is a mixture of reflection and of good-humour, of
resolution and of high spirits, which is infinitely rare; the thinker and good liver melt into
each other with quaint harmony. Put a cuirass on this large breast, and you will have one of
those fat German foot-soldiers so jovially painted by Terburg. With the monks' habit, it is
Jean des Entommeurs[*]; nevertheless, do not forget that the eyes throw, through all this embonpoint
and good-humour, the yellow look of a lion to counteract this Flemish familiarity. Such a man
would be equal to excesses of the table, of pleasure, and of work. We are no longer astonished
at the immense quantity of volumes published by him in so short a time. This prodigious labour
has left no trace of fatigue on the strong cheeks dappled with red, and on the large white
forehead. The enormous work which would have crushed six ordinary authors under its weight
is hardly the third of the monument he wishes to raise."

[*] One of the characters in Rabelais.

The original of this portrait was sent to Madame Hanska at Wierzchownia; but a sketch of it
belongs to M. Alexandre Dumas the younger, and has often been engraved. From this, it seems
as though Theophile Gautier must have read his knowledge of Balzac's character as a whole into
his interpretation of the picture. To the ordinary observer, Boulanger's portrait represents
Balzac as the thinker, worker, and fighter, stern and strenuous; not the delightful comrade
who inspired joy and merriment, and the recollection of whom made Heine smile on his death-bed.
The wonderful eyes which had not their equal, and which asked questions like a doctor or a
priest, are brilliantly portrayed. Balzac himself allows this, though he complains to Madame
Hanska that they have more of the psychological expression of the worker than of the loving
soul of the individual--a fact for which we may be grateful to Boulanger. Balzac is much delighted,
however, with Boulanger's portrayal of the insistence and intrepid faith in the future, a la
Coligny or a la Peter the Great, which are at the base of his character; and he goes on to
give an attractive, though rather picturesque account of his career and past misfortunes, which
is evidently intended to counteract any misgivings Madame Hanska may feel at his sternness
as depicted in the portrait.

"Boulanger has seen the writer only,[*] not the tenderness of the idiot who will always be
deceived, not the softness towards other people's troubles which cause all my misfortunes to
come from my holding out my hand to weak people who are falling into disaster. In 1827 I help
a working printer, and therefore in 1829 find myself crushed by fifty thousand francs of debt,
and thrown without bread into a gutter. In 1833, when my pen appears to be likely to bring
in enough to pay off my obligations, I attach myself to Werdet. I wish to make him my only
publisher, and in my desire to bring him prosperity, I sign engagements, and in 1837 find myself
owing a hundred and fifty thousand francs, and liable on this account to be put under arrest,
so that I am obliged to hide. During this time I make myself the Don Quixote of the poor. I
hope to give courage to Sandeau, and I lose through him four to five thousand francs, which
would have saved other people." It would be interesting to hear what Barbier and Werdet would
have said, if they had been allowed to read this letter; but on Browning's principle, that
a man should show one side to the world, and the other to the woman he loves, no doubt Balzac's
account of past events was quite justifiable.

[*] "Lettres a l'Etrangere."

Boulanger's picture gave Balzac a great deal of trouble, as well as delighted yet anxious speculation
about Madame Hanska's opinion of it, when it arrived in Wierzchownia. This was naturally an
important matter, his meetings with her being so rare that, except his letters, the picture
would generally be her only reminder of him; and for this reason it was most necessary that
it should show him at his best. It was therefore very trying that Boulanger should have exaggerated
the character of his quiet strength, and made him look like a bully and a soldier; and we can
enter thoroughly into his feelings, and sympathise heartily with his uneasiness, because Boulanger
has not quite caught the fineness of contour under the fatness of the face. Undoubtedly, the
picture does not give the idea of a person of extreme refinement, or distinction of appearance.
Nevertheless, judging from stories told by his contemporaries, and also from some of the books
written by the great novelist, it seems likely that Boulanger's powerful and strongly coloured
portrait, though only redeemed from coarseness by the intense concentration of expression and
the intellectual light in the wonderful eyes, was strikingly true to nature, and caught one
very real aspect of the man. Perhaps, however, it was not the one calculated to work most strongly
on the feelings of his absent lady-love; who, no doubt, poor Balzac hoped, would often make
her way to the spot in the picture gallery where his picture hung in its quaint frame of black
velvet, and would refresh herself with the sight of her absent friend. When her miniature by
Daffinger was sent him, he was stupefied all day with joy; and he always carried it about with
him, considering it an amulet which brought him good fortune.

He believed in talismans, and had pretty fanciful ideas about being present to his friends
in the sudden flicker of the fire, or the brightening of a candle-flame. Balzac, the Seer,
the believer in animal magnetism, in somnambulism, in telepathy, the weaver of strange fancies
and impossible daydreams--Balzac with philosophical theories on the function of thought, and
faith in the mystical creed of Swedenborg--in short, the Balzac of "Louis Lambert" and "Seraphita,"
is not, however, depicted by Boulanger: he can only be found in M. Rodin's wonderful statue.
There the great voyant, who, in the beautiful vision entitled "L'Assomption," saw man and woman
perfected and brought to their highest development, stands in rapt contemplation and concentration,
his head slightly raised, as if listening for the voice of inspiration, or hearing murmurs
of mysteries still unfathomed.

Somnambulism, in particular, occupied much of Balzac's attention. He wrote in 1832 to a doctor,
M. Chapelain, who evidently shared his interest in the subject, to ask why medical men had
not made use of it to discover the cause of cholera[*]; and on another occasion, after an accident
to his leg, he sent M. Chapelain, from Aix, two pieces of flannel which he had worn, and wanted
to know from them what caused the mischief, and why the doctors at their last consultation
advised a blister. Unluckily, we hear no more of this matter, and never have the satisfaction
of learning how much the learned doctor deduced from the fragments submitted to his inspection.
Time after time Balzac mentions in his correspondence that he has consulted somnambulists when
he has been anxious about the health of the Hanski family; and it is curious that a few months
before he received the letter from Madame Hanska, telling of her husband's death, he had visited
a sorcerer, who by means of cards, told him many extraordinary things about his past career,
and said that in six weeks he would receive news which would change his whole life.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. i. p. 147.

The portrait was still destined to cause Balzac much anxiety. After the close of the Salon,
the painter had promised to take a copy of it for Madame de Balzac, who, "between ourselves,"
Balzac remarked to Madame Hanska, would not care much about it, and certainly would not know
the difference between the replica and the original, in which the soul of the model was searched
for, examined and depicted,[*] and which was, of course, to belong to the beloved friend.

[*] "Lettres a l'Etrangere."

However, there were still many delays. Boulanger showed "horrible ingratitude," and did not
appreciate sufficiently the honour done him by his illustrious sitter in allowing his portrait
to be taken. He refused at first to begin the copy; but this difficulty was at last arranged,
and the original was carefully packed in a wooden crate, instead of going in a roll as Balzac
had at first intended. Still there were innumerable stoppages, and doubt where the precious
canvas was located; till the impatient Balzac was only deterred from his intention of starting
a lawsuit against the authorities, by a fear of bringing the noble name of Hanski into notoriety.
It is sad that the last time we hear of this precious picture in Balzac's lifetime was when
he went to Wierzchownia, in 1849; and then it had been relegated to a library which few people
visited, and he describes it with his usual energy, as the most hideous daub it is possible
to see--quite black, from the faulty mixing of the colours; a canvas of which, for the sake
of France, he is thoroughly ashamed.

The sketch of the portrait is not disfigured; and the engravings of it give an interesting
view of Balzac's personality. With due deference to the great psychologist, we cannot think
the painter was wrong in imparting a slightly truculent expression to the face. Balzac was
essentially a fighter: he started life with a struggle against his family, against the opinion
of his friends, and, harder than all, against his own impotence to give expression to his genius;
and, in the course of his career he made countless enemies, and finished by enrolling among
their ranks most of the literary men of the day. This alienation was to a great extent caused
by his inveterate habit of boasting, of applying the adjectives "sublime" and "magnificent"
to his own works: an idiosyncracy which was naturally annoying to his brother authors. It was
deprecated even by his devoted and admiring friends; though they knew that, as George Sand
says, it was only caused by the naivete of an artist, to whom his work was all-important.

His personal charm was so great, that Werdet, his enemy, says that in his presence those who
loved him, forgot any real or fancied complaint against him, and only remembered the affection
they felt for him. Nevertheless, in the course of his life of fighting, his ever-pressing anxieties
and the strain of his work, coupled with his belief in the importance and sacredness of his
destiny, made him something of an egotist. Therefore, in spite of his real goodness of heart,
he would sometimes shoulder his way through the world, oblivious of the unfortunate people
who had come to grief owing to their connection with him, and careless of the lesser, though
very real troubles of harassed and exasperated editors, when his promised copy was not forthcoming.

Like Napoleon, to whom, amidst the gibes of his contemporaries, he likened himself, he wanted
everything; and those with this aspiration must necessarily be heedless of their neighbours'
smaller ambitions. "Without genius, I am undone!" he cried in despair; but when it was proved
beyond dispute that this gift of debatable beneficence was his, he was still unsatisfied.

What, after all, was the use of genius except as a stepping-stone to the solid good things
of the earth? Where lay the advantage of superiority to ordinary men, if it could not be employed
as a lever with which to raise oneself? Reasoning thus, his extraordinary versatility, his
power of assimilation, and his varied interests, made his ambitions many and diverse. The man
who could enter with the masterly familiarity of an expert into affairs of Church, State, Society,
and Finance, who would talk of medicine like a doctor, or of science like a savant, naturally
aspired to excellence in many directions.

At times, as we have already seen, strange fancies filled his brain: dreams, for instance,
of occupying the highest posts in the land, or of gaining fabulous sums of money by some wildly
impossible scheme, such as visiting the Great Mogul with a magical ring, or obtaining rubies
and emeralds from a rich Dutchman. The two apparently incompatible sides to Balzac's character
are difficult to reconcile. On some occasions he appears as the keen business man, who studies
facts in their logical sequence, and has the power of drawing up legal documents with no necessary
point omitted. The masterly Code which he composed for the use of the "Societe des Gens-de-Lettres"
is an example of this faculty. At other times we are astonished to find that the great writer
is a credulous believer in impossibilities, and a follower of strange superstitions. A similar
paradox may be found in his books, where, side by side with a truth and occasional brutality
which makes him in some respects the forerunner of the realists, we find a wealth of imagination
and insistence on the power of the higher emotions, which are completely alien to the school
of Flaubert and Zola.

Perhaps in his own dictum, that genius is never quite sane, gives a partial explanation of
many of his fantastic schemes. The question of money was his great preoccupation and anxiety,
and possibly his pecuniary difficulties, and the strain of the heavy chain of debt he dragged
after him, constantly adding to its weight by some fresh extravagance, had affected his mind
on this one point. Marriage with poverty he could not conceive; and, as he was intensely affectionate,
he longed for a home and womanly companionship. "Is there no woman in the world for me?" he
cried despairingly; but in this, as in everything else, he required so much, that it was difficult
to find any one who would, in his eyes, be worthy to become Madame Honore de Balzac. His wife
must be no ordinary woman; in addition to birth and wealth, she must possess youth, beauty,
and high intellectual gifts; and one great difficulty was, that the lady endowed with this
combination of excellencies would naturally require some winning, and Balzac had no time to
woo. However, it was absolutely necessary that his married life should be one of luxury and
magnificence, beautiful surroundings being indispensable to his scheme of existence, "Il faut,"
he said, "que l'artiste mene une vie splendide." Therefore, till the right lady was found,
Balzac toiled unceasingly; and when in Madame Hanska the personification of his ideal at last
appeared, he redoubled his efforts, till overwork, and his longing for her, caused the decay
of his physical powers, and his strength for labour diminished.

Literature, a rich marriage, a successful play, or a political career, were all incidentally
to make his fortune; though it must be said, in justice, that this motive, though it entwines
itself with everything in Balzac's life, was not his only, or even his principal incentive
to action.

In his desire to become a deputy, for instance, the longing to serve his country and to have
a voice in her Councils, which he would use boldly, conscientiously, without fear or favour,
to further her true interests, was ever present with him. As early as 1819, he had begun to
take the keenest interest in the elections, telling M. Dablin, from whom he wanted a visit,
that he dreamed of nothing but him and the deputies, and begging him for a complete list of
those chosen in each department, with a short notice of his opinion on each.

By the law of election of 1830, any Frenchman who was thirty years of age, and contributed
500 francs a year directly, in taxes, was eligible as a deputy. When the law was made Balzac
was thirty-one, and paid the requisite amount; he therefore determined, in spite of his enormous
output of literary work at this time, to add the career of a deputy to his labours; and in
April, 1831, he wrote to ask for the assistance of the General Baron de Pommereul, with whom
he had been staying at Fougeres, collecting material for "Les Chouans," while at the same time
he worked up the country politically. His manifesto, at this period, is found in the "Enquete
sur la Politique des Deux Ministeres,"[*] in which he calls the Government a "monarchie tempere
par les emeutes," objects to the "juste milieu" observed by the Ministers; and while bringing
forward, with apparent impartiality, the advantages of the two courses of peace and war, very
evidently longs for France to take the battlefield again, to obtain what he considers her natural
frontier, that of the Rhine. He also enters con amore into the details of raising a Napoleonic
army, and of establishing the system of the Landwehr in France. A very remarkable passage in
this manifesto is that on the Press; by which, he says, the Government is terrorised. With
extraordinary penetration, he advises that the strength of journalism shall be broken by the
sacrifice of the three or four millions gained by the "timbre," and the liberation of the newspapers,
which are stronger than the seven ministers--for they upset the Government, and cannot be themselves
suppressed--there will be a hundred, and the number will neutralise their power, so that they
will become of no account politically.

[*] Another political pamphlet, entitled "Du Gouvernement Moderne,"
    written by Balzac at Aix in 1832, has lately been published in the
    North American Review. The original is in the collection of the
    Vicomte de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul.

Balzac had no chance at Fougeres, where a rich proprietor of the neighbourhood was chosen as
deputy, and no doubt M. de Pommereul advised him not to proceed further in the matter. However,
with his usual tenacity, he wrote in September to M. Henri Berthoud, manager of the Gazette
de Cambrai, who wanted to collaborate with the Revue de Paris, promising to further his wishes
by all the means in his power, if M. Berthoud would, on his part, support his candidature at
Cambrai. At the same time, he determined to try Angouleme, where he sometimes went to stay
with a relation, M. Grand-Besancon, and had met a M. Berges, chief of the Government preparatory
school, who was much struck by his talent, and promised to help him. In June, 1831, he wrote
to Madame Carraud,[*] who took much interest in his political aspirations, and sent her three
copies of the Manifesto for distribution. He told her that he was working day and night to
become deputy, was going out into society for this purpose; and was so overwhelmed with business,
that he had not touched "La Peau de Chagrin" since he was last at Saint-Cyr.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. i. p. 118.

He was evidently full of hope; but in spite of the powerful support of the Revue de Paris,
the Temps, the Debats, and the Voleur, the steady-going electors had no mind to be represented
by a penniless young author, who was chiefly known to the general public as the writer of the
"Physiologie du Mariage," a book distinctly not adapted for family reading. Therefore, in this,
as in many other hopes of his life, Balzac was doomed to disappointment; though the readers
of novels may be grateful to the unkind fate which caused him to turn with renewed ardour to
the neglected "Peau de Chagrin." He cherished a slight resentment against Angouleme, as he
showed in "Illusions Perdues," where the aristocracy of that town are rather unkindly treated;
but he was not discouraged in his political ambitions, and in 1832 he joined with M. Laurentie,
the Duc de Noailles, the Duc de Fitz-James (nephew to the Princesse de Chimay, who acted as
proxy for Marie Antoinette at Madame de Berny's christening) and others, to found a Legitimist
journal, the Renovateur. In this appeared an article against the proposed destruction of the
monument to the Duc de Berry, in which Balzac indignantly asks: "Why do you not finish the
monument, and raise an altar where the priests may pray God to pardon the assassin?"

Having thus shown his principles clearly, he turned his attention in 1832 to Chinon, which
was close to Tours, where he and his family had lived for so long, and to Sache, where he was
a constant visitor. There, if anywhere, he seemed likely to succeed; and the Quotidienne, the
paper which afterwards supported him during his lawsuit against the Revue de Paris, had promised
its voice in his favour. Again cruel Fate dogged his footsteps, as in May he tumbled out of
his tilbury, and his head came violently into contact with what he calls the "heroic pavements
of July"; the accident being a sad result of his childish delight in driving at a tremendous
pace in the Bois, which is rebuked by his sage adviser, Madame Carraud. Certainly carriages,
horses, and a stable, seemed hardly prudent acquisitions for a man in debt; but Balzac always
defended his pet extravagances with the specious reasoning that nothing succeeds like success;
and that most of his literary friends did not become rich because they lived in garrets, and
were on that account trampled on by haughty publishers and editors. He writes to Madame de
Girardin on this occasion: "Only think, that I who am so handsome have been cruelly disfigured
for several days, and it has seemed curious to be uglier than I really am."[*] As a further
and more serious result, he was laid up in bed, and had to undergo a severe regimen of bleeding,
during the time that he should have been at Sache, working hard about his election; and when
he did arrive there, in June, he recognised that he was too late for success. However, another
dissolution, which after all did not take place, was expected in September, and Balzac looked
forward to making a determined attempt then. This hope being frustrated, it was not till 1834
that he again came forward as a candidate: this time for Villefranche, where, curiously enough,
another M. de Balzac was nominated, and when M. de Hanski wrote to congratulate Balzac, the
latter was obliged to explain the mistake. On this occasion he had purposed to present himself
as champion of the Bourbon Royal Family, especially of the Duchesse de Berry, for whom he had
an immense admiration, while she read his books with much delight during her captivity in the
Castle of Blaye. He wrote to M. de Hanski that he considered the exile of Madame and the Comte
de Chambord the great blot on France in the nineteenth century, as the French Revolution had
been her shame in the eighteenth.

[*] "Correspondance," vol. i. p. 147.

This was Balzac's last serious attempt to stand for Parliament during the Monarchy of July,
though he often talked in his letters to Madame Hanska of his political aspirations, looked
forward to becoming a deputy in 1839, and hoped till then to dominate European opinion --rather
a large ambition--by a political publication. In his letters he is continually on the point
of beginning his career as a statesman; and in 1835 his views are even more inflated than usual.
He will absorb the Revue des Deux Mondes and the Revue de Paris, is in treaty to obtain one
newspaper, and will start two others himself, so that his power will be irresistible. "Le temps
presse, les evenements se compliquent,"[*] he cries impatiently. He is still strangled by want
of money--a hundred thousand francs is the modest sum he requires; but he will write a play
in the name of his secretary, and the spectre of debt will be laid for ever.

[*] "Lettres a l'Etrangere."

However, in the stress of work, which made his own life like the crowded canvas of one of his
own novels, these brilliant schemes came to nothing, and Balzac was never in the proud position
of a deputy. He gives his views clearly in a letter to Madame Carraud in 1830.[*] "France ought
to be a constitutional monarchy, to have a hereditary royal family, a house of peers of extraordinary
strength, which will represent property, etc., with all possible guarantees for heredity, and
privileges of which the nature must be discussed; then a second assembly, elective, representing
all the interests of the intermediary mass, which separates those of high social position from
the classes who are generally termed the people."

[*] "Correspondance," vol. i. p. 108.

"The purport of the laws, and their spirit, should be designed to enlighten the masses as much
as possible--those who have nothing, the workmen, the common people, etc., in order that as
many as possible should arrive at the intermediary state; but the people should, at the same
time, be kept under a most powerful yoke, so that its individuals may find light, help, and
protection, and that no idea, no statute, no transaction, may make them turbulent.

"The greatest possible liberty should be allowed to the leisured classes, for they possess
something to keep, they have everything to lose, they can never be dissolute.

"As much power as possible should be granted to the Government. Thus the Government, the rich
people, and the bourgeoisie have interest in keeping the lowest class happy, and in increasing
the number of the middle class, which is the true strength of the state.

"If rich people, the hereditary possessors of fortune in the highest Chamber, are corrupt in
their manners, and start abuses, these are inseparable from the existence of all society; they
must be accepted, to balance the advantages given."

This extract is taken from a letter which is, Balzac tells his correspondent, strictly private;
but, with his usual independence and fearlessness, he did not hesitate to enunciate his opinions
in public, and invariably refused to stoop to compromise or to disguise. Consequently, we cannot
wonder that he never attained his ambition; particularly as he lacked the aid of money, and
had no support, except the politically doubtful one of a literary reputation. His penetration
and power of prescience were remarkable, and it is startling to find that he foretells the
fall of the Monarchy of July, and the Revolution of 1848.[*] "I do not think," he says, "that
in ten years from now the actual form of government will subsist--August, 1830, has forgotten
the part played by youth and intelligence. Youth compressed will burst like the boiler of a
steam engine." In "Les Paysans," one of his most wonderful novels, he gives a vivid picture
of the constant struggle going on under the surface between the peasants and the bourgeoisie,
and shows that the triumph of the former class must be the inevitable result.

[*] "Revue Parisienne," p. 26

His was essentially a loyal, reverential nature, with the soldierly respect for constituted
authority which is often the characteristic of strong natures; and he was absolutely unswerving
in his principles --the courage and tenacity which distinguished him through life, never deserting
him in political emergencies. He was patriotic and high-minded; absolutely immovable in all
that concerned his duty. On one occasion, when it was proposed at a public meeting that the
Legitimists should follow the example of their political opponents and should stoop to evil
doings, he refused decidedly, saying: "The cause of the life of man is superhuman. It is God
who judges; His judgment does not hinge on our passions."[*] In his eyes, Religion and the
Monarchy were twin sisters, and he speaks sadly in "Le Medecin de Campagne" of the downfall
of both these powers. "With the monarchy we have lost honour, with our unfruitful attempts
at government, patriotism; and with our fathers' religion, Christian virtue. These principles
now only exist partially, instead of inspiring the masses, for these ideas never perish altogether.
At present, to support society we have nothing but selfishness."[+] Elsewhere, he laments the
atheistic government, and the increase of incredulity; and longs for Christian institutions,
and a strong hierarchy, united to a religious society.

[*] "Balzac et ses Oeuvres," by Lamartine de Prat.

[+] "Le Medecin de Campagne."

Balzac was not orthodox. There is no doubt, from a letter to Madame Hanska, that the Swedenborgian
creed he enunciates in "Seraphita" is to a great extent his own; but he believed in God, in
the immortality of the soul, and considered natural religion, of which, in his eyes, the Bourbons
were the depositors, absolutely essential to the well-being of a State. He had a great respect
for the priesthood, and has left many a charming and sympathetic picture of the parish cure,
such as l'Abbe Janvier in "Le Medecin de Campagne," who acts hand in hand with the good doctor
Benassis, as an enlightened benefactor to the poor; or l'Abbe Bonnet, the hero of "Le Cure
du Village," whose face had "the impress of faith, an impress giving the stamp of the human
greatness which approaches most nearly to divine greatness, and of which the undefinable expression
beautifies the most ordinary features." In "Les Paysans" we have another fine portrait, L'Abbe
Brossette, who is doing his work nobly among debased and cunning peasants. "To serve was his
motto, to serve the Church and the Monarchy at the most menaced points; to serve in the last
rank, like a soldier who feels destined sooner or later to rise to generalship, by his desire
to do well, and by his courage."

There is a beautiful touch in that terrible book "La Cousine Bette," where the infamous Madame
Marneffe is dying of a loathsome and infectious disease, so that even Bette, who feels for
her the "strongest sentiment known, the affection of a woman for a woman, had not the heroic
constancy of the Church," and could not enter the room. Religion alone, in the guise of a Sister
of Mercy, watched over her.

                              CHAPTER X

                                 1836

  Balzac starts the Chronique de Paris--Balzac and Theophile
  Gautier--Lawsuit with the Revue de Paris--Failure of the
  Chronique--Strain and exhaustion--Balzac travels in Italy
  --Madame Marbouty--Return to Paris--Death of Madame de Berny
  --Balzac's grief and family anxieties--He is imprisoned for
  refusal to serve in Garde Nationale--Werdet's failure--Balzac's
  desperate pecuniary position and prodigies of work--Close of
  the disastrous year 1836.

Balzac opened the first day of the year 1836 by becoming proprietor of the Chronique de Paris,
an obscure Legitimist publication, which had been founded in 1834 by M. William Duckett. It
started under Balzac's management with a great flourish of trumpets, the Comte (afterwards
Marquis) de Belloy and the Comte de Gramont taking posts as his sectaries; while Jules Sandeau,
Emile Regnault, Gustave Planche, Theophile Gautier, Charles de Bernard, and others, became
his collaborators. Balzac's special work was to provide a series of papers on political questions,
entitled "La France et l'Etranger," papers which show his extraordinary versatility; and his
helpers were to provide novels and poems, satire, drama, and social criticism; so that the
scope of the periodical was a wide one.

At first, Balzac was most sanguine about the success of his new enterprise, and was very active
and enthusiastic in working for it. On March 27th, he wrote to Madame Hanska about the embarrassment
caused him by his plate having been pawned during his unfortunate absence in Vienna, nearly
a year ago. It was worth five or six thousand francs, and he required three thousand to redeem
it. This sum he had never been able to raise, while, to add to his difficulties, on the 31st
of the month he would owe about eight thousand four hundred francs. Nevertheless, he must have
the silver next day or perish, as he had asked some people to dine who would, he hoped, give
sixteen thousand francs for sixteen shares in the Chronique. If borrowed plate were on his
table he was terribly afraid that the whole transaction would fail; as one of the people invited
was a painter, and painters are an "observant, malicious, profound race, who take in everything
at a glance."[*] Everything else in his rooms would represent the opulence, ease, and wealth
of the happy artist.

[*] "Lettres a l'Etrangere."

Poor Balzac! To add to his difficulties, it was impossible to borrow anywhere in Paris, as
he had only purchased the Chronique through the exceptional credit he enjoyed, and this would
be at once destroyed if he were known to be in difficulties. We do not hear any further particulars
about this tragedy, and cannot tell how far the conjunction of the borrowed plate--if it were
after all borrowed --and the astute painter, contributed to the downfall of the Chronique.
Werdet, however, attributes the disaster to the laziness of the talented staff, who could not
be induced to work together. However that may be, the result was a terrible blow to Balzac;
who was now, in addition to all his other liabilities, in debt for forty thousand francs to
the shareholders.

It is as a member of the staff of the Chronique, that the name of Theophile Gautier first appears
in connection with Balzac; and the two men remained close friends till Balzac's death. In 1835
Theophile Gautier published "Mademoiselle de Maupin," in which his incomparable style excited
Balzac's intense admiration, painfully conscious as he was of his own deficiencies in this
direction. Therefore, in forming the staff of the Chronique, he at once thought of Gautier,
and despatched Jules Sandeau to arrange matters with the young author, and to give him an invitation
to breakfast. Theophile Gautier, much flattered, but at the same time rather alarmed at the
idea of an interview with the celebrated Balzac, tells us that he thought over various brilliant
discourses on his way to the Rue Cassini, but was so nervous when he arrived that all his preparations
came to nothing, and he merely remarked on the fineness of the weather. However, Balzac soon
put him at his ease, and evidently took a fancy to him at once, as during breakfast he let
him into the secret that for this solemn occasion he had borrowed silver dishes from his publisher!

The friendship between Balzac and Gautier, though not as intimate and confidential as that
between Balzac and Borget, was true and steadfast; and was never disturbed by literary jealousy.
Gautier supported Balzac's plays in La Presse, and helped with many of his writings. Traces
of his workmanship, M. de Spoelberch de Lovenjoul tells us, are specially noticeable in the
descriptions of the art of painting and of the studio, in the edition of "Un Chef-d'Oeuvre
Inconnu" which appeared in 1837.[*] These descriptions are in Gautier's manner, and do not
appear in the edition of 1831; so that in all probability they were written, or at any rate
inspired by him. Gautier also wrote for Balzac, who had absolutely no faculty for verse, the
supposed translation of two Spanish sonnets in the "Memoires de Deux Jeunes Mariees," and the
sonnet called "La Tulipe" in "Un Grand Homme de Province a Paris." On his side, Balzac defended
Gautier on all occasions, and in 1839 dedicated "Les Secrets de la Princesse de Cadignan,"
then called "Un Princesse Parisienne," "A Theophile Gautier, son ami, H. de Balzac."

Beyond this friendship, the affair of the Chronique brought Balzac nothing but worry and trouble.
And it came at a time when misfortune assailed him on all sides. Madame de Berny was approaching
her end, and he wrote to his mother on January 1st, 1836, the day he started the Chronique
de Paris: "Ah! my poor mother, I am broken-hearted. Madame de Berny is dying! It is impossible
to doubt it! Only God and I know what is my despair. And I must work! Work weeping."[*]

[*] "Correspondance," vol. i. p. 323.

In the midst of his trouble, a most unfortunate occurrence took place, which besides embittering
his life at the time had a decided effect on his subsequent career; and indirectly obscured
his reputation even after his death.

In 1833, as we have already seen, Balzac, after long dissensions with Amedee Pichot, had definitely
left the Revue de Paris. However, in 1834, when Pichot retired from the management, the new
directors, MM. Anthoine de Saint-Joseph, Bonnaire, and Achille Brindeau, tried to satisfy their
readers by recalling Balzac; and "Seraphita" began to appear in the pages of the Revue. Difficulties,
as might be expected, soon arose between Balzac and the management; and the undercurrent of
irritation which subsisted on both sides only required some slight extra cause of offence,
to render an outbreak inevitable. In September, 1835, M. Buloz, already director of the Revue
des Deux Mondes, an extremely able, but bad-mannered and dictatorial man, took possession also
of the much-tossed-about Revue de Paris. Balzac had known Buloz since 1831, when the latter
bought the Revue des Deux Mondes, which was then in very low water, and was working with tremendous
energy to make it successful. At that time, Buloz and he often shared a modest dinner, and
with the permission of M. Rabou, then manager of the Revue de Paris, Balzac contributed "L'Enfant
Maudit," "Le Message," and "Le Rendez-Vous" to the Revue des Deux Mondes, and only charged
a hundred francs for the same quantity of pages for which he was paid a hundred and sixty francs
by Rabou. However, on April 15th, 1832, there appeared in the Revue des Deux Mondes a scathing,
anonymous criticism of the first dizain of the "Contes Drolatiques." This had apparently been
written by Gustave Planche; but Balzac considered Buloz responsible for it, and therefore refused
to write any longer for his review. In August, 1832, Buloz, who does not appear to have been
particularly scrupulous in his business relations, wrote to apologise, saying that though it
was not in his power to suppress the offending article, he had done his best to soften it;
and that now he was sole master of the Revue, so that not a word or line could pass without
his permission. He therefore begged Balzac to resume his old connection with him, and explained
that if he had not been confined to his bed and unable to walk, or even to bear the shaking
of a cab, he would have come to visit him, and matters would have been quickly arranged. Balzac's
answer, which is written from Angouleme, is couched in the uncompromising terms of "no surrender,"
which he generally adopted when he considered himself aggrieved. He did not absolutely refuse
to write for the Review, and referred Buloz to Madame de Balzac for terms; but, by the tone
of his letter, he negatived decidedly the idea of resuming friendly relations with his correspondent,
and while rather illogically professing a lofty indifference to criticism, remarked that he
felt the utmost contempt for those who calumniated his books.[*]

[*] See "Correspondance Inedite--Honore de Balzac," Revue Bleue,
    March 14, 1903.

After this the Revue des Deux Mondes became hostile to Balzac; and when Buloz and Brindeau
bought the Revue de Paris, a proceeding which must have been a shock to him, he believed that
Brindeau would be sole director, and drew up his agreement with him alone; having already refused
to have business dealings with the ever active Buloz. However, Buloz soon took the principal
place, and was so apologetic for his past misdeeds, and so insistent in promising amendment
for the future, that Balzac, evidently reflecting that it would be distinctly against his interests
to exclude himself from two of the most important reviews in Paris, consented to reconsider
his decision. Therefore the following agreement, which is interesting as an example of Balzac's
usual conditions when issuing his novels in serial form, was drawn up between the two men.

The Review was only to use Balzac's articles for its subscribers. He was to regain absolute
rights over his books three months after their first publication--this was an invariable stipulation
in all Balzac's treaties--and was to give up fifty francs out of the two hundred and fifty
considered due to him for each "feuille" of fifteen pages, to reimburse Buloz for the number
of times the proofs had to be reprinted.[*] On these terms he agreed to finish "Le Pere Goriot,"
as well as "Seraphita," and to write the "Memoires d'une Jeune Mariee," with the understanding
that a separate contract was to be made for each of his contributions, and that he was free
to write for other periodicals.

[*] The account of the lawsuit between Balzac and the Revue de Paris
    is taken from his "Historique du Proces auquel a donne lieu 'Le
    Lys dans la Vallee,'" which formed the second preface of the first
    edition of "Le Lys dans la Vallee" and is contained in vol. xxii.
    of the Edition Definitive of Balzac's works; and from "H. de
    Balzac et 'La Revue de Paris,'" which is the Review's account of
    the case, and may be found in "Un dernier chapitre de l'Historie
    des Oeuvres de H. de Balzac," by the Vicomte de Spoelberche de
    Lovenjoul.

Almost at once difficulties began, difficulties which are inevitable when a genius of the stamp
of Balzac is bound by an unfortunate agreement to provide a specified quantity of copy at stated
intervals. Balzac could not write to order. "Seraphita," planned to please Madame Hanska, was
intended to be a masterpiece such as the world had never seen. From Balzac's letters there
is no doubt that he was conscientiously anxious to finish it, only, as he remarks, "I have
perhaps presumed too much of my strength in thinking that I could do so many things in so short
a time."[*] When he made the unfortunate journey to Vienna, "Seraphita" still required, at
his own computation, eight days' and eight nights' work; but, settled there, he turned his
attention at once to "Le Lys dans la Vallee," which he had substituted for the "Memoires d'une
Jeune Mariee," and at which he laboured strenuously. The first number of this appeared in the
Revue de Paris, on November 22, 1835; but in the meantime Balzac's uncorrected proofs had been
sold by Buloz to MM. Bellizard and Dufour, proprietors of the Revue Etrangere de St. Petersbourg.
Therefore, in October, before the authorised version was published in Paris, there appeared
in Russia, under the title of "Le Lys dans la Vallee," what Balzac indignantly characterised
as the "unformed thoughts which served me as sketch and plan."

[*] "Lettres a l'Etrangere."

This was double treachery on the part of Buloz, as, by the treaty already mentioned, he had
bought the right to publish Balzac's novels in the Revue de Paris only; and even if this stipulation
had not been made, he had no excuse for selling as Balzac's completed work, what he knew to
be absolutely unfinished. Balzac, after this, refused to receive him on friendly terms; but
a meeting was arranged at the house of Jules Sandeau, at which Balzac and the Comte de Belloy
met Buloz and Bonnaire. Sandeau and Emile Regnault, who were friends of both the contending
parties, were also present; and they, after this conference, became for a time exclusively
Balzac's friends, as he remarks significantly. Balzac owed the Review 2,100 francs; but the
remainder of the "Lys" was ready to appear, and he calculated that for this, the payment due
to him would be about 2,400 francs. He therefore proposed that the account between him and
the journal should be closed with the end of the "Lys"; and that as indemnity for the injury
done him by the action of Buloz in publishing his unfinished work in the Revue Etrangere, he
should be permitted to send the novel in book form to a publisher at once, instead of waiting
the three months stipulated in the agreement. MM. Buloz and Bonnaire refused this arrangement,
declaring that it would be extortion; and after giving them twenty-four hours for reflection,
Balzac announced his intention of writing no longer for the Revue de Paris, and prepared to
bring an action against the proprietors.

Buloz and Bonnaire, however, decided that it would be good policy for the first attack to be
on their side, and as Balzac could not obtain his proofs from Russia for a month at least,
they sued him for breach of contract in not writing "Les Memoires d'une Jeune Mariee," and
claimed 10,000 francs damages for his refusal to finish the "Lys dans la Vallee"; as well as
fifty francs for each day's delay in his doing this. Balzac brought forward his counter claim,
and offered the Revue de Paris the 2,100 francs which had been advanced to him; but they refused
to be satisfied with the payment of this debt; and in May, 1836, the case opened.

There was a side issue on the subject of "Seraphita," about which the Revue certainly had just
cause for complaint. In May, 1834, Balzac had been paid 1,700 francs in advance for this, and
the first number appeared on June 1st, the second not following till July 20th. Then Balzac
disappeared altogether; and when he returned in November, he proposed to begin "Le Pere Goriot"
in the Revue, and promised after this had come to an end to return to "Seraphita"; but it was
not till the middle of August, 1835, that he at last produced another number. After this there
were again delays, and, according to Buloz, the whole of "Seraphita" was never offered to the
Revue de Paris. The truth, however, appears to have been that Buloz at last completely lost
his temper at Balzac's continual failures to fulfil his engagements, and declared that "Seraphita"
was unintelligible, and was losing subscribers to the Review. Balzac, furious at this insult,
paid Buloz 300 francs, to defray the expenses already incurred for the printing of "Seraphita,"
and took back his work. Buloz's receipt for this money is dated November 21st, 1835, two days
before the appearance of the first number of the "Lys dans la Vallee" in Paris, so storms were
gathering on all sides. Ten days after this, on December 2nd, Werdet brought out "Seraphita"
in book form in "Le Livre Mystique," which contained also "Louis Lambert" and "Les Proscrits,"
a fact which proved Balzac's contention that in November it was ready for publication in the
Revue de Paris. The first edition of "Le Livre Mystique" was sold in ten days, and the second
followed it a month after, which, as Balzac remarked sardonically, was "good fortune for an
unintelligible work." This success on the part of his enemy no doubt did not help to soften
the indignant Buloz; and he must have been further exasperated by an article in the Chronique
de Paris, in which Balzac was styled the "Providence des Revues," and the injury the Revue
de Paris sustained in the loss of his collaboration was insisted on with irritating emphasis.

The case was carried on with the utmost bitterness by the Revue de Paris; Balzac's morals,
his honesty, even his prose, being attacked with the greatest violence. Editors and publishers
on all sides gave their testimony against him. He must have been amazed and confounded by the
deep hatred he had evoked by his want of consideration, which on several occasions certainly
amounted to a breach of good faith. All his old sins found him out. Amedee Pichot, former manager
of the Revue de Paris, Forfellier of the Echo de la Jeune France, and Capo de Feuillide of
L'Europe Litteraire, raised their voices against the high-handed and rapacious author. The
smothered enmity and irritation of years at last found vent; and it was in vain that Balzac
demonstrated, in the masterly defence of his conduct written in one night, which formed the
preface to the "Lys dans la Vallee," that he had always remained technically within his rights,
and that as far as money was concerned he owed the publishers nothing. Unwritten conventions
had been defied, because it was possible to defy them with impunity; and editors who had gone
through many black hours because of the failure of the great man to keep his promises, and
who smarted under the recollection of the discourteous refusal of advances it had been an effort
to make, did not spare their arrogant enemy now that it was possible to band together against him.

Perhaps, however, the bitterest blow to poor Balzac, was the fact that his brother authors,
of whose rights he had been consistently the champion, did not scruple to turn against him.
Either terrorised by the all-powerful Buloz, or jealous of one who insisted on his own abilities
and literary supremacy with loud-voiced reiteration, Alexandre Dumas, Roger de Beauvoir, Frederic
Soulie, Eugene Sue, Mery, and Balzac's future acquaintance Leon Gozlan, signed a declaration
at the instance of Buloz, to the effect that it was the general custom that articles written
for the Revue de Paris should be published also in the Revue Etrangere, and should thus avoid
Belgian piracy. Jules Janin, whose criticisms on Balzac are peculiarly venomous, and Loeve-Veimars,
added riders to this statement, expressing the same views, only with greater insistence. To
these assertions, Balzac replied that Buloz had specially paid George Sand 100 francs a sheet
over the price arranged, to obtain the right of sending her corrected proofs to Russia; and
that arrangements on a similar basis had been made with Gustave Planche and M. Fontaney. The
fact that exceptional payments were made on these occasions was conclusive evidence against
simultaneous publication in Paris and St. Petersburg being the received practice. Moreover,
as Balzac observes with unanswerable justice, even if this custom did exist, it would count
as nothing against the agreement between him and Buloz. "M. Janin can take a carriage and go
himself to carry his manuscripts to Brussels; M. Sue can get into a boat and sell his books
in Greece; M. Loeve-Veimars can oblige his editors if they consent, to make as many printed
copies of his future works as there are languages in Europe: all that will be quite right,
the Revue is to-day like a publisher. My treaties, however, are made and written; they are
before the eyes of the judge, they are not denied, and state that I only gave my articles to
the Revue de Paris, to be inserted solely in the Revue, and nowhere else."

Balzac won the case. It was decided by the Tribunal of Judges on Friday, June 3rd, 1836, that
he was not bound to give the "Memoires d'une Jeune Mariee" to the Revue de Paris, as when promised,
the story had not been yet written, and the "Lys dans la Vallee" had been substituted for it;
also that the 2100 francs which he had already offered to Buloz was all that he owed the Review.
The judges left unsettled the question as to whether the proprietors of the Revue de Paris
were entitled to hand over their contributors' corrected proofs to the Revue Etrangere; but
decreed that they were certainly in the wrong when they parted with unfinished proofs. They
were therefore condemned to pay the costs of the action.

Balzac's was a costly victory. Except the Quotidienne, which stood by him consistently, not
a paper was on his side. His clumsiness of style, his habit of occasionally coining words to
express his meaning, and the coarseness of some of his writings, combined with the prejudice
caused by his literary arrogance, had always, to a certain extent, blinded literary and critical
France to his consummate merits as a writer. Now, however, want of appreciation had changed
to bitter dislike; and in addition to abuse, indiscriminate and often absurd of his writings,
his enemies assailed his morals, ridiculed his personal appearance, and made fun of his dress
and surroundings. He was not conciliatory; he did not bow to the storm. In June, 1839, appeared
the second part of "Illusions Perdues," which was entitled "Un Grand Homme de Province a Paris,"
and was a violent attack on French journalism; and in March, 1843, Balzac published the "Monographie
de la Presse Parisienne," a brilliant piece of work, but certainly not calculated to repair
the breach between him and the publishing world. Nevertheless, though his pride and independence
prevented him from trying to temporise, there is no doubt that Balzac suffered keenly from
the hostility he encountered on all sides. He writes to Madame Hanska directly after the lawsuit:
"Ah! you cannot imagine how intense my life has been during this month! I was alone for everything;
harassed by the journal people who demanded money of me, harassed by payments to make, without
having any money because I was making none, harassed by the lawsuit, harassed by my book, the
proofs of which I had to correct day and night. No, I am astonished at having survived this
struggle. Life is too heavy; I do not live with pleasure."[*] To add to his difficulties, Madame
Bechet had lately become Madame Jacquillard, and possibly urged to action by M. Jacquillard,
and alarmed by tales of Balzac's misdemeanours, she became restive, and demanded the last two
volumes of the "Etudes de Moeurs" in twenty-four hours, or fifty francs for each day's delay.
The affairs of the Chronique were at this time causing Balzac much anxiety, and he fled to
the Margonnes at Sache; not for rest, but to work fifteen hours a day for "cette odieuse Bechet";
and there, in eight days, he not only invented and composed the "Illusions Perdues," but also
wrote a third of it.

[*] "Lettres a l'Etrangere."

However, the strain had been too great even for his extraordinary powers, and while walking
in the park after dinner with M. and Mme. de Margonne, on the day that letters arrived from
Paris with the news that liquidation of the Chronique was necessary, he fell down in a fit
under one of the trees. Completely stunned for the time, he could write nothing; and thought,
in despair, of giving up the hopeless struggle, and of hiding himself at Wierzchownia. Fortunately,
his unconquerable courage soon returned; he travelled to Paris, wound up the affairs of the
Chronique; and as Werdet had allowed him twenty days' liberty, and his tailor and a workman
had lent him money to pay his most pressing debts, he obtained a letter of credit from Rothschild,
and started for Italy.

His ostensible object was a visit to Turin, to defend the Comte Guidoboni-Visconti in a lawsuit,
as the Count, whose acquaintance he had made at the Italian Opera, could not go himself to
Italy. In reality, however, in his exhaustion, and the overstrained state of his nerves, he
craved for the freedom and distraction which he could only find in travel. Madame Visconti
was an Englishwoman--another Etrangere --her name before her marriage had been Frances Sarah
Lowell. Later on, she became one of Balzac's closest friends, and Madame Hanska was extremely
jealous of her influence.

It is amusing to discover that Balzac did not take this journey alone. He was accompanied by
a lady whom he describes in a letter as "charming, spirituelle, and virtuous," and who, never
having had the chance in her life of breathing the air of Italy, and being able to steal twenty
days from the fatigues of housekeeping, had trusted in him for inviolable secrecy and "scipionesque"
behaviour. "She knows whom I love, and finds there the strongest safeguard."[*] This lady was
Madame Marbouty, known in literature as Claire Brunne, and during her stay in Italy as "Marcel"--a
name taken from the devoted servant in Meyerbeer's opera "Les Huguenots," which had just appeared.
A few weeks earlier, she had refused to travel in Touraine with Balzac, as she considered that
a journey with him in France would compromise her; but, apparently, in Italy this objection
did not apply. She travelled in man's clothes, as Balzac's page, and both he and she were childishly
delighted by the mystification they caused. Comte Sclopis, the celebrated Piedmontese statesman,
who acted as their cicerone in Turin society, was much fascinated by the charming page. The
liking was evidently mutual, as, after the travellers had left Italy, Balzac records that at
Vevey, Lausanne, and all the places they visited, Marcel cried: "And no Sclopis!" and it sounds
as though the exclamation had been accompanied by a sigh. Several times during the journey
the lively Amazon was mistaken for George Sand, whom she resembled in face, as well as in the
fancy for donning masculine attire; and the mistake caused her intense satisfaction. At Geneva,
haunted to Balzac by happy memories, the travellers stayed at the Hotel de l'Arc, and Balzac's
mind was full of his lady-love, whose spirit seemed to him to hallow the place. He saw the
house where she stayed, went along the road where they had walked together, and was refreshed
in the midst of his troubles and anxieties by the thought of her.

On August 22nd the travellers returned to Paris on excellent terms with each other, and for
some years after this journey friendly relations continued. In 1842, in remembrance of their
adventure, Balzac dedicated "La Grenadiere" to Madame Marbouty, under the name of Caroline,
and added the words, "A la poesie du voyage, le voyageur reconnaissant." Later on, however,
they quarrelled, and she wrote "Une Fausse Position," in which Balzac is represented in a decidedly
unflattering light; and after this he naturally withdrew the dedication in "La Grenadiere."

On his return from this amusing trip a terrible trouble awaited Balzac. Among the letters heaped
together upon his writing-table was one from Alexandre de Berny, announcing abruptly the death
of Madame de Berny, which had taken place on July 27th. Balzac was utterly crushed by this
blow. He had not seen Madame de Berny for some time, as since the death of her favourite son
she had shut herself up completely, pretending to Balzac that she was not very ill, but saying
laughingly that she only wanted to see him when she was beautiful and in good health. Now she
was dead, and the news came without preparation in the midst of his other troubles. She was
half his life, he cried in despair; and writing to Madame Hanska he said that his sorrow had
almost killed him. In the midst of this overwhelming grief other worries added their quota
to the weight oppressing Balzac. Henri de Balzac gave his family continual trouble, while Laurence's
husband, M. de Montzaigle, refused to support his children; in fact, the only faint relief
to the darkness surrounding the Balzac family at this time was M. Surville's hopefulness about
the Loire Canal scheme.

In addition to all these misfortunes, Balzac had to submit to the annoyance of several days'
imprisonment in the Hotel des Haricots, for his refusal to serve in the Garde Nationale, a
duty which was, he said, the nightmare of his life. The place of detention was not luxurious.
There was no fire, and he was in the same hall for a time with a number of workmen, who made
a terrible noise. Fortunately, he was soon moved to a private room, where he was warm and could
work in peace. After this, in terrible pecuniary difficulties, and feeling acutely the loss
of the woman who had been an angel to him in his former troubles, he left the Rue Cassini and
fled from Paris, to avoid further detention by the civic authorities. He took refuge at Chaillot,
and under the name of Madame Veuve Durand hid at No. 13, Rue des Batailles. Here he lodged
for a time in a garret formerly occupied by Jules Sandeau, from the window of which there was
a magnificent view of Paris, from the Ecole Militaire to the barrier of the Trone, and from
the Pantheon to L'Etoile. From time to time Balzac would pause in his work to gaze on the ocean
of houses below; but he never went out, for he was pursued by his creditors.

It is curiously characteristic of his love of luxury that, destitute as he was, he had no intention
of occupying this modest garret for long, but that a drawing-room on the second floor, which
would cost 700 francs, was already in preparation for his use. It was to No. 13, Rue des Batailles,
that Emile de Girardin, who had just started La Presse, wrote asking him to contribute to its
pages; and, in consequence, Balzac produced "La Vieille Fille," which began to appear on October
23rd, and shocked the subscribers very much. Here, too, at a most inopportune moment, Madame
Hanska addressed to him a depressed and mournful letter, of which he complains bitterly. She
was at this time extremely jealous of Madame Visconti, from whom she suspected that Madame
de Mortsauf, in the "Lys dans la Vallee," had been drawn; and Balzac says he supposes that
he must give up the Italian opera, the only pleasure he has, because a charming and graceful
woman occupies the same box with him. In October he paid a sad little visit to La Boulonniere,
which must have brought before him keenly the loss he had sustained; and after he spent a few
days at Sache, where he was ill for a day or two as a result of mental worry and overwork.

Another blow was to fall on Balzac before the disastrous year 1836 came to a close. The "Lys
dans la Vallee," on which Werdet had pinned all his hopes, had sold very badly, possibly owing
to the hostility of the newspapers. As a climax to all Balzac's miseries, in October Werdet
failed. This was doubly serious, as Balzac had signed several bills of exchange for his publisher,
and was therefore liable for a sum of 13,000 francs. Werdet wrote a book abusing Balzac as
the cause of his failure; and Balzac, on his side, was certainly unsympathetic about the misfortunes
of a man whose interests, after all, were bound up with his own, and whom he politely called
"childish, bird-witted, and obstinate as an ass." The truth seems to have been that, as Werdet
aspired to be Balzac's sole publisher, he was obliged to buy up all the copies of Balzac's
books which were already in the hands of publishers, and not having capital for this, he obtained
money by credit and settled to pay by bills at long date. He also brought before the public
a certain number of books by writers sympathetic to his client, and as these books were usually
by young and unknown authors, their printing did not cover expenses. As a consequence of these
imprudent ventures he was unable to meet his bills on maturity; and Balzac, being liable for
some of them, was naturally furious, as he had to be in hiding from the creditors, while Werdet,
as he remarked bitterly, was walking comfortably about Paris. Werdet was young and enthusiastic,
and no doubt his imagination was fired by Balzac's picture of the glorious time in the future,
when the great writer and his publisher should have both made their fortunes, and their carriages
should pass each other in the Bois de Boulogne. There is no reason, however, to think that
Balzac wilfully misrepresented matters, as Werdet insinuates. He was essentially good-hearted,
as every one who knew him testifies; but his extraordinary optimism and power of self-deception,
combined with the charm of his personality and the overmastering influence he exercised, made
him a most dangerous man to be connected with in business; and Werdet, like many another, suffered
from his alliance with the improvident man of genius.

Balzac also at this times suffered severely; but he had now completely recovered his energy.
In his efforts to clear himself he worked thirty nights without going to bed, sending contributions
to the Chronique, the Presse, the Revue Musicale, and the Dictionnaire de la Conversation,
composing the "Perle Brisee," "La Vieille Fille," and "Le Secret des Ruggieri," besides finishing
the last volumes of the "Etudes de Moeurs" and bringing out new editions of several of his
books. As the result of his labours, he calculated, with his usual cheerfulness, that if he
worked day and night for six months, and after that ten hours a day for two years, he would
have paid off his debts and would have a little money in hand. In the end, he bound himself
for fifteen years to an association formed by a speculator named Bohain: 50,000 francs being
given him at once to pay off his most pressing debts, while, by the terms of the agreement,
he provided a stipulated number of volumes every year, and was given 1,500 francs a month for
the first year, 3,000 francs a month for the second year, 4,000 francs for the third, and so
on. Besides this, he was to receive half the profits of each book after the publisher's expenses
had been defrayed. As he was extremely pleased with this arrangement, which at any rate freed
him from his immediate embarrassments, a faint ray of sunlight shone for him on the close of
the sad year of 1836.

                              CHAPTER XI

                             1836 - 1840

  "Louise"--Drawing-room in Rue des Batailles--The "Cheval Rouge"
  --Balzac's second visit to Italy--Conversation with Genoese
  merchant--Buys Les Jardies at Sevres--Travels to Sardinia to
  obtain silver from worked-out mines--Disappointment--Balzac goes
  on to Italy--Takes up his abode in Les Jardies--Life there--He
  hopes to write a successful play--"L'Ecole des Menages"--Balzac's
  half-starved condition--He defends Peytel.

It is curious to find that during the events recorded in the last chapter, when, to put the
matter mildly, Balzac's spare time was limited, he yet managed to conduct a sentimental correspondence
with "Louise," a lady he never met and whose name he did not know. Apparently, in the midst
of his troubles, he was seized by an overmastering desire to pour out his feelings in writing
to some kindred soul. Madame Hanska was far away, and could not answer promptly; besides, though
passionately loved, she was not always sympathetic, the solid quality of her mind not responding
readily to the quickness and delicacy of Balzac's emotions. Louise, to whom in 1844 he dedicated
"Facino Cane," was close at hand; she was evidently mournful, sentimental, and admiring; she
sent him flowers when he was in prison, and at another time a sepia drawing. Besides, her shadowy
figure was decked for him with the fascination of the unknown, and there was excitement in
the wonder whether the veil enveloping her would ever be lifted, and, like Madame Hanska, she
would emerge a divinity of flesh and blood. However, in spite of Balzac's entreaties she refused
to reveal her identity; and after about a year's correspondence, during which time Louise suffered
from a great misfortune, the nature of which she kept secret, the letters between them ceased
altogether.

Balzac had now left his garret, and was established in the drawing-room on the second floor
of 13, Rue des Batailles, which is exactly described in "La Fille aux Yeux d'Or." The room
was very luxurious, and the details had been thought out with much care.[*] One end of it had
square corners, the other end was rounded, and the corners cut off to form the semicircle were
connected by a narrow dark passage, and contained--one a camp bedstead, and the other a writing-table.
A secret door led to this hiding-place, and here Balzac took refuge when pursued by emissaries
from the Garde Nationale, creditors, or enraged editors. The scheme of colour in the room was
white and flame-colour shading to the deepest pink, relieved by arabesques of black. A huge
divan, fifty feet long and as broad as a mattress, ran round the horseshoe. This, like the
rest of the furniture, was covered in white cashmere decked with flame-coloured and black bows,
and the back of it was higher than the numerous cushions by which it was adorned. Above it
the walls were hung with pink Indian muslin over red material, the flame-colour and black arabesques
being repeated. The curtains were pink, the mantelpiece clock and candlesticks white marble
and gold, the carpet and portieres of rich Oriental design, and the chandelier and candelabra
to light the divan of silver gilt. About the room were elegant baskets containing white and
red flowers, and in the place of honour on the table in the middle was M. de Hanski's magnificent
gold and malachite inkstand. Balzac showed the glories of this splendid apartment with infantile
pride and delight to visitors; and here, reckless of his pecuniary embarrassments, he gave
a grand dinner to Theophile Gautier, the Marquis de Belloy, and Boulanger, and entertained
them in the evening with good stories "a la Rabelais."

[*] See "Honore de Balzac" in "Portraits Contemporains," by Theophile
    Gautier.

About this time Balzac started the association he called the "Cheval Rouge," which was intended
to be a mutual help society among a number of friends, who were to push and praise each other's
compositions, and to rise as one man against any one who dared to attack a member of the alliance.
The idea was a good one; but there was a comic side to it as conducted by Balzac, and the "Cheval
Rouge," after five or six meetings, ceased to exist without having seriously justified its
existence. Theophile Gautier, Jules Sandeau, and Leon Gozlan were among the members; and so
dazzling were the pictures drawn by Balzac of the powers and scope of the society, that each
one saw himself in imagination with a seat in the French Academy, and in succession peer of
France, minister, and millionaire. It was sad that with these lofty aims the association should
have been dissolved because most of its members were not able to pay their fifteen francs subscription.
The first meeting was held at the Cheval Rouge, a very modest restaurant on the "Quai de l'Entrepot,"
from which the society took its name. The members were summoned by a card with a little red
horse on it, and under this the words "Stable such a day, such a place." Everything was carried
on with the greatest secrecy and mystery, and the arrangements, which were conducted by Balzac
with much seriousness, afforded him intense pleasure. The "Cheval Rouge" might have been a
dangerous political society from the precautions he took. In order to avoid suspicion one member
was always to greet another member coldly in society; and Balzac would pretend to meet Gautier
with much ceremony for the first time in a drawing-room, and then by delighted winks and grimaces
would point out to him how well he was acting.

In March, 1837, Balzac paid a second visit to Italy; travelling through a part of Switzerland,
stopping at Milan, Venice, Genoa, and Florence, and returning to Paris on May 3rd. His health
was, he said, detestable at this time, and he required rest and change. He went alone, as Gautier,
who had intended to be his companion, was kept in Paris by the necessity of writing criticisms
on the pictures in the Salon. One object of Balzac's journey was to visit Florence to see Bartolini's
bust of Madame Hanska, of which he evidently approved, as he asked M. de Hanski's permission
to have a small copy made of it which he could always keep on his writing-table; but this was
never sent to him. He was delighted with Venice, which he now saw for the first time; and in
Florence was specially charmed with the pictures at the Pitti, though he found travelling by
himself rather dull, and decided that his next journey should be undertaken at a time when
Gautier could accompany him. At Genoa he met a wily merchant, to whom he unfortunately confided
the last brilliant scheme for making his fortune which was floating through his active brain.

He had read in Tacitus that the Romans found silver in Sardinia; and it occurred to him, that,
as the ancients were not learned in extracting metals, silver might still be found among the
lead which was turned out of the mines as refuse. The Genoese merchant appeared much interested
in Balzac's conversation, and remarked that, owing to the carelessness of the Sardinians, whole
mountains of dross, containing lead, and most probably silver, were left in the vicinity of
the mines. He was most obliging: he promised to send Balzac a specimen of the dross that it
might be submitted to Parisian experts, and if the result were satisfactory, Balzac and he
were to ask for a permit from the Government at Turin, and would work the mines together. When
this had been arranged Balzac departed in high spirits, determined to keep his secret carefully,
and feeling that at last he was on the high road to fortune. On the way back he was detained
in quarantine for some time, and partly from economy, partly because he wanted to see Neufchatel,
where he had first met Madame Hanska, he travelled back by Milan and the Splugen, and reached
Paris in perfect health.

Here fresh misfortunes awaited him, as Werdet was bankrupt, and, as a consequence, his creditors
pursued Balzac. Never in future would he be answerable or sign his name for any one, he cried
in despair. He had forestalled the money allowed him by his treaty with Bohain, was working
day and night, and in a few days would retire into an unknown garret, and live as he had done
in the Rue Lesdiguieres. Nevertheless, in his anxiety to see Madame Hanska, he had begun to
think out economical ways of getting to Ukraine. He was not very well at this time, and in
August he went to Sache, to see whether his native air would revive him.

His next action would be astonishing to any one unacquainted with his extraordinary recklessness.
In October 1837 he gave up the rooms at the Rue Cassini, which he had kept during the time
of his residence at Passy; and in order to escape what he termed "an atrocious law" on the
subject of his abhorrence the Garde Nationale, he bought a piece of land in the Ville d'Avray,
at Sevres, on which he began to build a house, planned by himself. This soon acquired celebrity
as "Les Jardies," and gave much amusement to the Parisians, who were never tired of inventing
stories about Balzac's villa. In March, 1838, before he settled in his new abode, he started
on a journey to Sardinia to investigate matters himself about the mines. It was a year since
the Genoese merchant had promised to send him a specimen of the dross, and as nothing had yet
arrived, he was beginning to feel anxious.

