The civic ceremonies, and especially those on Assize Sunday, are very grand affairs. On that
occasion the Judges and Corporation attend the cathedral in state. The Judges arrive in the
state-coach attired in their robes and wigs, attended by the county sheriff in uniform, and
escorted by trumpeters and a posse of police. The Corporation march from the Guildhall, the
mayor in his sable robe and the sheriff in purple, attended by their chaplains and the chief
city officials in their robes, and accompanied also by the magistrates, aldermen, and councillors.
In front are borne the four maces, Henry VII's sword and the cap of maintenance, escorted by
the city police. The Judges on their arrival at the great west door of the cathedral are met
by the Bishop and other dignitaries of the Church in their robes and conducted to their official
places in the choir, whilst the beautiful organ peals out the National Anthem.

On the third Tuesday in July a curious custom was observed, as on that day a large white stuffed
glove decorated with flowers was hung in front of the Guildhall, the townspeople having been
duly warned, to the sound of the drum and fife, that the great Lammas Fair, which lasted for
three days, had begun; the glove was then hoisted for the term of the fair. Lammas Day falls
on the first day of August, and was in Saxon times the Feast of First-fruits; sometimes a loaf
of bread was given to the priest in lieu of first-fruit. It seems to have been a similar fair
to that described at Honiton, but did not appear to carry with it freedom from arrest during
the term of the fair, as was the case in that town.

The records or archives possessed by the city of Exeter are almost continuous from the time
of Edward I, and have been written and compiled in the most careful manner. They are probably
the most remarkable of those kept by the various towns or cities in the provinces. They include
no less than forty-nine Royal Charters, the earliest existing being that granted by Henry II
in the twelfth century, and attested by Thomas à-Becket. A herb (Acorus calamus or sweet sage),
which was found in the neighbourhood of Exeter, was highly prized in former times for its medicinal
qualities, being used for diseases of the eye and in intermittent fevers. It had an aromatic
scent, even when in a dried state, and its fragrant leaves were used for strewing the floors
of churches. It was supposed to be the rush which was strewn over the floor of the apartments
occupied by Thomas à-Becket, who was considered luxurious and extravagant because he insisted
upon a clean supply daily; but this apparent extravagance was due to his visitors, who were
at times so numerous that some of them were compelled to sit on the floors. It was quite a
common occurrence in olden times for corpses to be buried in churches, which caused a very
offensive smell; and it might be to counteract this that the sweet-smelling sage was employed.
We certainly knew of one large church in Lancashire within the walls of which it was computed
that 6,000 persons had been buried.

It was astonishing how many underground passages we had heard of on our journey. What strange
imaginations they conjured up in our minds! As so few of them were now in existence, we concluded
that many might have been more in the nature of trenches cut on the surface of the land and
covered with timber or bushes; but there were old men in Exeter who were certain that there
was a tunnel between the site of the old castle and the cathedral, and from there to other
parts of the city, and they could remember some of them being broken into and others blocked
up at the ends. We were also quite sure ourselves that such tunnels formerly existed, but the
only one we had actually seen passed between a church and a castle. It had just been found
accidentally in making an excavation, and was only large enough for one man at a time to creep
through comfortably.

There were a number of old inns in Exeter besides the old "Globe," which had been built on
the Icknield Way in such a manner as to block that road, forming a terminus, as if to compel
travellers to patronise the inn; and some of these houses were associated with Charles Dickens
when he came down from London to Exeter in 1835 to report on Lord John Russell's candidature
for Parliament for the Morning Observer. The election was a very exciting one, and the great
novelist, it was said, found food for one of his novels in the ever-famous Eatonswill, and
the ultra-abusive editors. Four years afterwards Dickens leased a cottage at Alphington, a
village about a mile and a half away from Exeter, for his father and mother, who resided there
for three and a half years. Dickens frequently came to see them, and "Mr. Micawber," with his
ample seals and air of importance, made a great impression on the people of the village. Dickens
freely entered into the social life of Exeter, and he was a regular visitor on these occasions
at the old "Turk's Head Inn," adjoining the Guildhall, where it was said he picked up the "Fat
Boy" in Pickwick. Mrs. Lupin of the "Blue Dragon" appeared as a character in Martin Chuzzlewit,
and "Pecksniff" was a local worthy whom he grossly and unpardonably caricatured.

On leaving Exeter we crossed the river by the Exe bridge and followed the course of that stream
on our way to regain the sea-coast, entering the suburb of St. Thomas the Apostle, where at
a church mentioned in 1222 as being "without the walls," we saw the tower from which the vicar
was hanged for being concerned in the insurrection of 1549. At Alphington we had pointed out
to us the "Mile End Cottage," formerly the residence of the parents of Charles Dickens, and
then walked on to Exminster, expecting from its name to find something interesting, but we
were doomed to disappointment. On the opposite side of the river, however, we could see the
quaint-looking little town of Topsham, which appeared as if it had been imported from Holland,
a country which my brother had visited seven years previously; we heard that the principal
treasures stored in the houses there were Dutch tiles. Ships had formerly passed this place
on their way to Exeter, but about the year 1290 Isabella de-Fortibus, Countess of Exeter, having
been offended by the people there, blocked up the river with rocks and stones, thereby completely
obstructing the navigation and doing much damage to the trade of Exeter. At that time cloths
and serges were woven from the wool for which the neighbourhood of Exeter was famous, and exported
to the Continent, the ships returning with wines and other merchandise; hence Exeter was at
that time the great wine-importing depot of the country. The weir which thus blocked the river
was still known as the "Countess Weir," and Topsham--which, by the way, unlike Exeter, absolutely
belonged to the Earls of Devon--increased in importance, for ships had now to stop there instead
of going through to Exeter. The distance between the two places is only about four miles, and
the difficulty appeared to have been met in the first instance by the construction of a straight
road from Exeter, to enable goods to be conveyed between that city and the new port. This arrangement
continued for centuries, but in 1544 a ship canal was made to Topsham, which was extended and
enlarged in 1678 and again in 1829, so that Exeter early recovered its former position, as
is well brought out in the finely-written book of the Exeter Guild of Merchant Adventurers,
still in existence. Its Charter was dated June 17th, 1599, and by it Queen Elizabeth incorporated
certain merchants under the style of "The Governors Consuls, and Society of the Merchant Adventurers
of the Citye and County of Exeter, traffiqueing the Realme of Fraunce and the Dominions of
the French Kinge." The original canal was a small one and only adapted for boats carrying about
fifteen tons: afterwards it was enlarged to a depth of fifteen feet of water--enough for the
small ships of those days--for even down to Tudor times a hundred-ton boat constituted a man-of-war.
This canal made Exeter the fifth port in the kingdom in tonnage, and it claimed to be the first
lock canal constructed in England. Its importance gradually declined after the introduction
of railways and the demand for larger ships, and the same causes affected Topsham, its rival.

Leaving Exminster, we had a delightful walk to Powderham, the ancient seat of the Courtenay
family, the Earls of Devon, who were descended from Atho, the French crusader. The first of
the three branches of this family became Emperors of the West before the taking of Constantinople
by the Turks, the second intermarried with the royal family of France, and the third was Reginald
Courtenay, who came to England in the twelfth century and received honours and lands from Henry
II. His family have been for six centuries Earls of Devon, and rank as one of the most honoured
in England.

We called to see the little church at Powderham, which stood quite near the river side, and
which, like many others, was built of the dark red sandstone peculiar to the district. There
were figures in it of Moses and Aaron, supposed originally to be placed to guard the two tablets
containing the Ten Commandments; and there were the remains of an old screen, but the panels
had suffered so severely that the figures and emblems could not be properly distinguished.
There was also under an arch a very old monument, said to be that of the famous Isabella de-Fortibus,
Countess of Devon, who died in 1293. She was the sister of the last Earl Baldwin de Redvers,
and married William de-Fortibus, Earl of Albemarle, in 1282. Her feet rested on a dog, while
on either side her head were two small child-angels, the dog and children being supposed to
point to her as the heroine of a story recorded in a very old history of Exeter:

   An inhabitant of the city being a very poor man and having many
   children, thought himself blessed too much in that kind, wherefore to
   avoid the charge that was likely to grow upon him in that way
   absented himself seven years together from his wife. But then
   returning, she within the space of a year afterwards was delivered of
   seven male children at a birth, which made the poor man to think
   himself utterly undone, and thereby despairing put them all in a
   basket with full intent to have drowned them: but Divine Providence
   following him, occasioned a lady then within the said city coming at
   this instant of time in his way to demand of him what he carried in
   that basket, who replied that he had there whelps, which she desired
   to see, who, after view perceiving that they were children, compelled
   the poor man to acquaint her with the whole circumstances, whom, when
   she had sharply rebuked for such his humanity, presently commanded
   them all to be taken from him and put to nurse, then to school, and
   so to the university, and in process of time, being attained to man's
   estate and well qualified in learning, made means and procured
   benefices for every one of them.

The language used in this story was very quaint, and was probably the best tale related about
Isabella, the Countess of Devon; but old "Isaacke," the ancient writer, in his history remarks
that it "will hardly persuade credit."

We could not learn what became of William her husband; but Isabella seemed to have been an
extremely strong-minded, determined woman, and rather spiteful, for it was she who blocked
the river so that the people of Exeter, who had offended her, could have neither "fishing nor
shipping" below the weir. On one occasion, when four important parishes had a dispute about
their boundaries, she summoned all their principal men to meet her on the top of a swampy hill,
and throwing her ring into the bog told them that where it lay was where the parishes met;
the place is known to this day as "Ring-in-the-Mire."

We passed by Powderham Castle, and saw some magnificent trees in the park, and on a wooded
hill the Belvedere, erected in 1773. This was a triangular tower 60 feet high, with a hexagonal
turret at each corner for sight-seeing, and from it a beautiful view over land and sea could
be obtained.

With regard to the churches in this part of England, we learned that while Somerset was noted
for towers and Cornwall for crosses, the churches in Devonshire were noted for screens, and
nearly every church we visited had a screen or traces where one had existed, some of them being
very beautiful, especially that in Kenton church, which we now went to inspect. Farther north
the images and paintings on the screens, and even the woodwork, had been badly disfigured,
but some of the old work in Devon had been well preserved. The screens had been intended to
protect the chancel of the church from the nave, to teach people that on entering the chancel
they were entering the most sacred part of the church, and images and paintings were placed
along the screens. The same idea, but in another direction, was carried out on the outside
of the churches; for there also the people, scarcely any of whom in those days could read or
write, were taught, by means of images and horrible-looking gargoyles worked in stone placed
on the outside of the church and steeple, that everything vile and wicked was in the world
outside the church. The beautiful pictures and images inside the church were intended to show
that everything pure and holy was to be found within: the image of the patron saint being generally
placed over the doorway.

The village of Kenton was hidden in a small dell, and possessed a village green, in the centre
of which were the remains of an old cross. The church tower was one hundred feet high, surmounted
by an unusually tall pinnacle at each corner, the figure of a saint appearing in a niche, presumably
for protection. Kenton must have been a place of some importance in early times, for Henry
III had granted it an annual fair on the feast of All Saints. The magnificent screen in the
church not only reached across the chancel, but continued across the two transepts or chapels
on either side, and rose in tiers of elaborate carving towards the top of the chancel arch.
No less than forty of its panels retained their original pictures of saints and prophets, with
scrolls of Latin inscriptions alternating with verses from the Old Testament and clauses from
the Apostles' Creed. Most of the screen was fifteenth-century work, and it was one of the finest
in the county; much of the work was Flemish. On it were images of saints, both male and female,
and of some of the prophets, the saints being distinguishable by the nimbus or halo round their
heads, and the prophets by caps and flowing robes after the style of the Jewish costumes in
the Middle Ages. There was also a magnificent pulpit of about the same date as the screen,
and so richly designed as to equal any carved pulpit in Europe. It was said to have been carved
from the trunk of a single oak tree and ornamented in gilt and colours.

The number of screens in the churches near the sea-coast caused us to wonder whether some of
them had been brought by sea from Flanders or France, as we remembered that our Cheshire hero,
and a famous warrior, Sir Hugh de Calveley, who kept up the reputation of our county by eating
a calf at one meal, and who died about the year 1400, had enriched his parish church with the
spoils of France; but the lovely old oak furniture, with beautifully figured panels, some containing
figures of saints finely painted, which he brought over, had at a recent "restoration" (?)
been taken down and sold at two pounds per cartload! We sincerely hoped that such would not
be the fate of the beautiful work at Kenton.

We now came to Star Cross, a place where for centuries there had been a ferry across the River
Exe, between the extreme west and east of Devon. The rights of the ferry had formerly belonged
to the abbots of Sherborne, who had surmounted the landing-place with a cross, which had now
disappeared. The ferry leads by a rather tortuous passage of two miles to Exmouth, a town we
could see in the distance across the water; but troublesome banks of sand, one forming a rabbit
warren, obstructed the mouth of the river. We also passed through Cofton, a small village noted
for its cockles, which the women gathered along the shore in a costume that made them resemble
a kind of mermaid, except that the lower half resembled that of a man rather than a fish. About
two miles from Cofton was the village of Mamhead, with its obelisk built in 1742, one hundred
feet high, on the top of a spur of the Great Haldon Hill. The rector of the church here at
one time was William Johnson Temple, often mentioned in Boswell's Life of Johnson. He was the
grandfather of Frederick Temple, Bishop of Exeter at the time we passed through that city,
afterwards Bishop of London, and finally Archbishop of Canterbury, to whose harsh voice and
common sense we had once listened when he was addressing a public meeting in Manchester. In
the churchyard at Mamhead was an enormous yew tree, over eight hundred years old. In 1775,
when Boswell came to see Lord Lisburne at Mamhead Park, and stayed at the vicarage, he was
so much impressed by the size and magnificence of this great tree, that he made a vow beneath
its great branches "never to be drunk again"--a vow he soon forgot when he was out of sight
of the tree.

We soon arrived at the pretty little town of Dawlish, and perhaps it was its unique appearance
that gave us the impression that we had reached another of the prettiest places we had visited.
There we halted for refreshments and for a hurried excursion in and about the town, as we were
anxious to reach Torquay before night, where we had decided to stay until Monday morning. We
walked towards the source of the water, which comes down from the higher lands in a series
of pretty little waterfalls, spreading out occasionally into small lakes adorned at the sides
with plots of grass and beds of flowers. The name Dawlish, we learned, came from two Cornish
words meaning "deep stream," or, as some have it, "Devil's Water"; and behind the town on Haldon
Hill was the "Devil's Punchbowl," from which descended the water that passed through the town,
but which is in much too pleasant a position, we thought, to be associated with his satanic
majesty.

Modern Dawlish (though "Doflisc" appears in early charters) only dated from the year 1810,
when the course of a small stream was changed, and the pretty waterfalls made; rustic bridges
were placed over it and houses built near the banks; this scheme, which was intended to make
the fortunes of the prospectors and of the inhabitants generally, was completed at the beginning
of November in that year. But, sad to relate, before nine o'clock on the morning of November
10th in that same year scarcely a vestige of the improvements remained, and in place of a small
rippling stream came a great river, which swept away four houses with stables and other buildings
and eight wooden bridges. It seemed almost as if the devil had been vexed with the prospectors
for interfering with his water, and had caused this devastation to punish them for their audacity.
But a great effort was made in 1818, and a more permanent scheme on similar lines was completed;
and Dawlish as we saw it in 1871 was a delightful place suggestive of a quiet holiday or honeymoon
resort. Elihu Burritt, in his Walk from London to Land's End, speaks well of Dawlish; and Barham,
a local poet and a son of the renowned author of Ingoldsby Legends, in his legend "The Monk
of Haldon," in the July number of Temple Bar in 1867, wrote:

             Then low at your feet,
             From this airy retreat,
  Reaching down where the fresh and the salt water meet,
  The roofs may be seen of an old-fashioned street;
  Half village, half town, it is--pleasant but smallish,
  And known where it happens to be known, as Dawlish.
             A place I'd suggest
             As one of the best
  For a man breaking down who needs absolute rest,
  Especially too if he's weak in the chest;
             Torquay may be gayer,
             But as for the air
  It really can not for a moment compare
  With snug little Dawlish--at least so they say there.

The light-coloured cliffs of Dorsetshire had now given place to the dark red sandstone cliffs
of Devonshire, a change referred to by Barham in "The Monk of Haldon," for he wrote:

  'Tis certainly odd that this part of the coast,
  While neighbouring Dorset gleams white as a ghost,
  Should look like anchovy sauce spread upon toast.

We were now bound for Teignmouth, our next stage; and our road for a short distance ran alongside,
but above, the seashore. The change in the colour of the cliffs along the sea-coast reminded
my brother of an incident that occurred when he was going by sea to London, about nine years
before our present journey. He had started from Liverpool in a tramp steamboat, which stopped
at different points on the coast to load and unload cargo; and the rocks on the coast-line
as far as he had seen--for the boat travelled and called at places in the night as well as
day--had all been of a dark colour until, in the light of a fine day, the ship came quite near
Beachy Head, where the rocks were white and rose three or four hundred feet above the sea.
He had formed the acquaintance of a young gentleman on board who was noting every object of
interest in a diary, and who, like my brother, was greatly surprised at the white cliffs with
the clear blue sky overhead. Presently the captain came along, and the young man asked him
why the rocks were white. "Well, sir," said the captain, "the sea is as deep there as the rocks
are high, and they are so dangerous to ships in the dark that the Government has ordered them
to be whitewashed once a month to prevent shipwreck." Out came the pocket-book, and as the
captain watched the passenger write it down, my brother looked hard in the captain's face,
who never moved a muscle, but a slight twinkle in one of his eyes showed that he did not want
to be asked any questions!

The Devon red sandstone was not very durable, and the action of the sea had worn the outlying
rocks into strange shapes. Before reaching Teignmouth we had some good views of the rocks named
"the Parson and the Clerk," the history of which was by no means modern, the legend being told
in slightly different ways:

