After such high hopes, the effect of the Sykes-Picot Agreement on French imperialists can be
imagined. Their anger turned naturally upon the English, who were roundly denounced and blamed
for everything that was happening in the East, Arab nationalist aspirations being stigmatized
as nothing but British propaganda. Cried one French writer: "Some psychiatrist ought to write
a study of these British colonial officials, implacable imperialists, megalomaniacs, who, night
and day, work for their country without even asking counsel from London, and whose constant
care is to annihilate in Syria, as they once annihilated in Egypt, the supremacy of France."[184]
In answer to such fulminations, English writers scored French "greed" and "folly" which was
compromising England's prestige and threatening to set the whole East on fire.[185] In fine,
there was a very pretty row on between people who, less than a year before, had been pledging
their "sacred union" for all eternity. The Arabs were certainly much edified, and the other
Eastern peoples as well.

Largely owing to these bickerings, Allied action in the Near East was delayed through 1919.
But by the spring of 1920 the Allies came to a measure of agreement. The meeting of the Allied
Premiers at San Remo elaborated the terms of the treaty to be imposed on Turkey, dividing Asia
Minor into spheres of influence and exploitation, while the Arab provinces were assigned England
and France according to the terms of the Sykes-Picot Agreement--properly camouflaged, of course,
as "mandates" of the League of Nations. England, France, and their satellite, Greece, prepared
for action. British reinforcements were sent to Mesopotamia and Palestine; French reinforcements
were sent to Syria; an Anglo-Franco-Greek force prepared to occupy Constantinople, and Premier
Venizelos promised a Greek army for Asia Minor contingencies. The one rift in the lute was
Italy. Italy saw big trouble brewing and determined not to be directly involved. Said Premier
Nitti to an English journalist after the San Remo conference: "You will have war in Asia Minor,
and Italy will not send a single soldier nor pay a single lira. You have taken from the Turks
their sacred city of Adrianople; you have placed their capital city under foreign control;
you have taken from them every port and the larger part of their territory; and the five Turkish
delegates whom you will select will sign a treaty which will not have the sanction of the Turkish
people or the Turkish Parliament."

Premier Nitti was a true prophet. For months past the Turkish nationalists, knowing what was
in store for them, had been building up a centre of resistance in the interior of Asia Minor.
Of course the former nationalist leaders such as Enver Pasha had long since fled to distant
havens like Transcaucasia or Bolshevik Russia, but new leaders appeared, notably a young officer
of marked military talent, Mustapha Kemal Pasha. With great energy Mustapha Kemal built up
a really creditable army, and from his "capital," the city of Angora in the heart of Asia Minor,
he now defied the Allies, emphasizing his defiance by attacking the French garrisons in Cilicia
(a coast district in Asia Minor just north of Syria), inflicting heavy losses.

The Arabs also were preparing for action. In March a "Pan-Syrian Congress" met at Damascus,
unanimously declared the independence of Syria, and elected Feisal king. This announcement
electrified all the Arab provinces. In the French-occupied coastal zone riots broke out against
the French; in Palestine there were "pogroms" against the Jews, whom the Arabs, both Moslem
and Christian, hated for their "Zionist" plans; while in Mesopotamia there were sporadic uprisings
of tribesmen.

Faced by this ominous situation, the "mandatories" took military counter-measures. The French
took especially vigorous action. France now had nearly 100,000 men in Syria and Cilicia, headed
by General Gouraud, a veteran of many colonial wars and a believer in "strong-arm" methods.
On July 15 Gouraud sent Feisal an ultimatum requiring complete submission. Feisal, diplomatic
to the last, actually accepted the ultimatum, but Gouraud ignored this acceptance on a technicality
and struck for Damascus with 60,000 men. Feisal attempted no real resistance, fighting only
a rearguard action and withdrawing into the desert. On July 25 the French entered Damascus,
the Arab capital, deposed Feisal, and set up thoroughgoing French rule. Opposition was punished
with the greatest severity. Damascus was mulcted of a war-contribution of 10,000,000 francs,
after the German fashion in Belgium, many nationalist leaders were imprisoned or shot, while
Gouraud announced that the death of "one French subject or one Christian" would be followed
by wholesale "most terrible reprisals" by bombing aeroplanes.[186]

Before this Napoleonic "thunder-stroke" Syria bent for the moment, apparently terrorized. In
Mesopotamia, however, the British were not so fortunate. For some months trouble had patently
been brewing, and in March the British commander had expressed himself as "much struck with
the volcanic possibilities of the country." In July all Mesopotamia flamed into insurrection,
and though Britain had fully 100,000 troops in the province, they were hard put to it to stem
the rebellion.

Meanwhile, the Allies had occupied Constantinople, to force acceptance of the draft treaty
of peace. Naturally, there was no resistance, Constantinople being entirely at the mercy of
the Allied fleet. But the silence of the vast throngs gathered to watch the incoming troops
filled some Allied observers with disquietude. A French journalist wrote: "The silence of the
multitude was more impressive than boisterous protests. Their eyes glowed with sullen hatred.
Scattered through this throng of mute, prostrated, hopeless people circulated watchful and
sinuous emissaries, who were to carry word of this misfortune to the remotest confines of Islam.
In a few hours they would be in Anatolia. A couple of days later the news would have spread
to Konia, Angora, and Sivas. In a brief space of time it would be heralded throughout the regions
of Bolshevist influence, extending to the Caucasus and beyond. In a few weeks all these centres
of agitation will be preparing their counter-attack. Asia and Africa will again cement their
union of faith. Intelligent agents will record in the retentive minds of people who do not
read, the history of our blunders. These missionaries of insurrection and fanaticism come from
every race and class of society. Educated and refined men disguise themselves as beggars and
outcasts, in order to spread the news apace and to prepare for bitter vengeance."[187]

Events in Turkey now proceeded precisely as the Italian Premier Nitti had foretold. The Allied
masters of Constantinople compelled the Sultan to appoint a "friendly" cabinet which solemnly
denounced Mustapha Kemal and his "rebels," and sent a hand-picked delegation to Sèvres, France,
where they dutifully "signed on the dotted line" the treaty that the Allies had prepared. The
Allies had thus "imposed their will"--on paper. For every sensible man knew that the whole
business was a roaring farce; knew that the "friendly" government, from Sultan to meanest clerk,
was as nationalist as Mustapha Kemal himself; knew that the real Turkish capital was not Constantinople
but Angora, and that the Allies' power was measured by the range of their guns. As for Mustapha
Kemal, his comment on the Sèvres Treaty was: "I will fight to the end of the world."

The Allies were thus in a decidedly embarrassing situation, especially since "The Allies" now
meant only England and France. Italy was out of the game. As Nitti had warned at San Remo,
she would "not send a single soldier nor pay a single lira." With 200,000 soldiers holding
down the Arabs, and plenty of trouble elsewhere, neither France nor Britain had the troops
to crush Mustapha Kemal--a job which the French staff estimated would take 300,000 men. One
weapon, however, they still possessed--Greece. In return for large territorial concessions,
Premier Venizelos offered to bring the Turks to reason. His offer was accepted, and 100,000
Greek troops landed at Smyrna. But the Greek campaign was not a success. Even 100,000 men soon
wore thin when spread out over the vast Asia Minor plateau. Mustapha Kemal avoided decisive
battle, harassing the Greeks by guerilla warfare just as he was harassing the French in Cilicia
at the other end of the line. The Greeks "dug in," and a deadlock ensued which threatened to
continue indefinitely. This soon caused a new complication. Venizelos might be willing to "carry
on" as the Allies' submandatory, but the Greek people were not. Kept virtually on a war-footing
since 1912, the Greeks kicked over the traces. In the November elections they repudiated Venizelos
by a vote of 990,000 to 10,000, and recalled King Constantine, who had been deposed by the
Allies three years before. This meant that Greece, like Italy, was out of the game. To be sure,
King Constantine presently started hostilities with the Turks on his own account. This was,
however, something very different from Greece's attitude under the Venizelist régime. The Allies'
weapon had thus broken in their hands.

Meanwhile Mustapha Kemal was not merely consolidating his authority in Asia Minor but was gaining
allies of his own. In the first place, he was establishing close relations with the Arabs.
It may appear strange to find such bitter foes become friends; nevertheless, Franco-British
policy had achieved even this seeming miracle. The reason was clearly explained by no less
a person than Lawrence ("The Soul of the Arab Revolution"), who had returned to civil life
and was thus free to speak his mind on the Eastern situation, which he did in no uncertain
fashion. In one of several statements given to the British press, Lawrence said: "The Arabs
rebelled against the Turks during the war, not because the Turkish Government was notably bad,
but because they wanted independence. They did not risk their lives in battle to change masters,
to become British subjects or French citizens, but to win a State of their own." The matter
was put even more pointedly by an Arab nationalist leader in the columns of a French radical
paper opposed to the Syrian adventure. Said this leader: "Both the French and the English should
know once for all that the Arabs are joined by a common religion with the Turks, and have been
politically identified with them for centuries, and therefore do not wish to separate themselves
from their fellow believers and brothers-in-arms merely to submit to the domination of a European
nation, no matter what form the latter's suzerainty may assume.... It is no use for M. Millerand
to say: 'We have never thought of trespassing in any respect upon the independence of these
people.' No one is deceived by such statements as that. The armistice was signed in accordance
with the conditions proclaimed by Mr. Wilson, but as soon as Germany and its allies were helpless,
the promises of the armistice were trodden underfoot, as well as the Fourteen Points. Such
a violation of the promises of complete independence, so prodigally made to the Arabs on so
many occasions, has resulted in re-uniting closer than ever the Arabs and the Turks. It has
taken but a few months to restore that intimacy.... It is probable that France, by maintaining
an army of 150,000 men in Syria, and by spending billions of francs, will be able to subdue
the Syrian Arabs. But that will not finish the task. The interior of that country borders upon
other lands inhabited by Arabs, Kurds, and Turks, and by the immense desert. In starting a
conflict with 4,000,000 Syrians, France will be making enemies of 15,000,000 Arabs in the Levant,
most of whom are armed tribes, without including the other Mohammedan peoples, who are speedily
acquiring solidarity and organization under the blows that are being dealt them by the Entente.
If you believe I am exaggerating, all you have to do is to investigate the facts yourself.
But what good will it do to confirm the truth too late, and after floods of blood have flowed?"[188]

In fact, signs of Turco-Arab co-operation became everywhere apparent. To be sure, this co-operation
was not openly avowed either by Mustapha Kemal or by the deposed King Feisal who, fleeing to
Italy, continued his diplomatic manoeuvres. But Arabs fought beside Turks against the French
in Cilicia; Turks and Kurds joined the Syrian Arabs in their continual local risings; while
Kemal's hand was clearly apparent in the rebellion against the British in Mesopotamia.

This Arab entente was not the whole of Mustapha Kemal's foreign policy. He was also reaching
out north-eastward to the Tartars of Transcaucasia and the Turkomans of Persian Azerbaidjan.
The Caucasus was by this time the scene of a highly complicated struggle between Moslem Tartars
and Turkomans, Christian Armenians and Georgians, and various Russian factions, which was fast
reducing that unhappy region to chaos. Among the Tartar-Turkomans, long leavened by Pan-Turanian
propaganda, Mustapha Kemal found enthusiastic adherents; and his efforts were supported by
a third ally--Bolshevik Russia. Bolshevik policy, which, as we have already stated, was seeking
to stir up trouble against the Western Powers throughout the East, had watched Kemal's rise
with great satisfaction. At first the Bolsheviki could do very little for the Turkish nationalists
because they were not in direct touch, but the collapse of Wrangel's "White" army in November,
1920, and the consequent overrunning of all south Russia by the Red armies, opened a direct
line from Moscow to Angora via the Caucasus, and henceforth Mustapha Kemal was supplied with
money, arms, and a few men.

Furthermore, Kemal and the Bolsheviki were starting trouble in Persia. That country was in
a most deplorable condition. During the war Persia, despite her technical neutrality, had been
a battle-ground between the Anglo-Russians on the one hand and the Turco-Germans on the other.
Russia's collapse in 1917 had led to her military withdrawal from Persia, and England, profiting
by the situation, had made herself supreme, legalizing her position by the famous "Agreement"
"negotiated" with the Shah's government in August, 1919.[189] This treaty, though signed and
sealed in due form, was bitterly resented by the Persian people. Here was obviously another
ripe field for Bolshevik propaganda. Accordingly, the Bolshevik government renounced all rights
in Persia acquired by the Czarist régime and proclaimed themselves the friends of the Persian
people against Western imperialism. Naturally the game worked, and Persia soon became honeycombed
with militant unrest. In the early summer of 1920 a Bolshevist force actually crossed the Caspian
Sea and landed on the Persian shore. They did not penetrate far into the country. They did
not need to, for the country simply effervesced in a way which made the British position increasingly
untenable. For many months a confused situation ensued. In fact, at this writing the situation
is still obscure. But there can be no doubt that Britain's hold on Persia is gravely shaken,
and she may soon be compelled to evacuate the country, with the possible exception of the extreme
south.

Turning back to the autumn of 1920: the position of England and France in the Near East had
become far from bright. Deserted by Italy and Greece, defied by the Turks, harried by the Arabs,
worried by the Egyptians and Persians, and everywhere menaced by the subtle workings of Bolshevism,
the situation was not a happy one. The burden of empire was proving heavy. In Mesopotamia alone
the bill was already 100,000,000 sterling, with no relief in sight.

Under these circumstances, it is not surprising that in both England and France Near Eastern
policies were subjected to a growing flood of criticism. In England especially the tide ran
very strong. The Mesopotamian imbroglio was denounced as both a crime and a blunder. For example,
Colonel Lawrence stated: "We are to-day not far from disaster. Our government is worse than
the old Turkish system. They kept 14,000 local conscripts in the ranks and killed yearly an
average of 200 Arabs in maintaining peace. We keep 90,000 men, with aeroplanes, armoured cars,
gunboats, and armoured trains. We have killed about 10,000 Arabs in the rising this summer."[190]
Influenced by such criticisms and by the general trend of events, the British Government modified
its attitude, sending out Sir Percy Cox to negotiate with the Arabs. Sir Percy Cox was a man
of the Milner type, with a firm grip on realities and an intimate experience with Eastern affairs.
Authorized to discuss large concessions, he met the nationalist leaders frankly and made a
good impression upon them. At this writing matters have not been definitely settled, but it
looks as though England was planning to limit her direct control to the extreme south of Mesopotamia
at the head of the Persian Gulf--practically her old sphere of influence before 1914.

Meanwhile, in Syria, France has thus far succeeded in maintaining relative order by strong-arm
methods. But the situation is highly unstable. All classes of the population have been alienated.
Even the Catholic Maronites, traditionally pro-French, have begun agitating. General Gouraud
promptly squelched the agitation by deporting the leaders to Corsica; nevertheless, the fact
remains that France's only real friends in Syria are dissatisfied. Up to the present these
things have not changed France's attitude. A short time ago ex-Premier Leygues remarked of
Syria, "France will occupy all of it, and always"; while still more recently General Gouraud
stated: "France must remain in Syria, both for political and economic reasons. The political
consequences of our abandonment of the country would be disastrous. Our prestige and influence
in the Levant and the Mediterranean would be doomed. The economic interests of France also
compel us to remain there. When fully developed, Syria and Cilicia will have an economic value
fully equal to that of Egypt."

However, despite the French Government's firmness, there is an increasing public criticism
of the "Syrian adventure," not merely from radical anti-imperialist quarters, but from unimpeachably
conservative circles as well. The editor of one of the most conservative French political periodicals
has stated: "Jealous of its autonomy, the Arab people, liberated from the Ottoman yoke, do
not desire a new foreign domination. To say that Syria demands our protection is a lie. Syria
wishes to be entirely independent."[191] And recently Senator Victor Bérard, one of France's
recognized authorities on Eastern affairs made a speech in the French Senate strongly criticising
the Government's Syrian policy from the very start and declaring that a "free Syria" was "a
question of both interest and honour."

Certainly, the French Government, still so unyielding toward the Arabs, has reversed its attitude
toward the Turks. Side-stepping the Sèvres Treaty, it has lately agreed on provisional peace
terms with the Turkish nationalists, actually agreeing to evacuate Cilicia. In fact, both France
and England know that the Sèvres Treaty is unworkable, and that Turkish possession of virtually
the whole of Asia Minor will have to be recognized.

In negotiating with Mustapha Kemal, France undoubtedly hopes to get him to throw over the Arabs.
But this is scarcely thinkable. The whole trend of events betokens an increasing solidarity
of the Near Eastern peoples against Western political control. A most remarkable portent in
this direction is the Pan-Islamic conference held at Sivas early in 1921. This conference,
called to draw up a definite scheme for effective Moslem co-operation the world over, was attended
not merely by the high orthodox Moslem dignitaries and political leaders, but also by heterodox
chiefs like the Shiah Emir of Kerbela, the Imam Yahya, and the Zaidite Emir of Yemen--leaders
of heretical sects between whom and the orthodox Sunnis co-operation had previously been impossible.
Most notable of all, the press reports state that the conference was presided over by no less
a personage than El Sennussi. This may well be so, for we have already seen how the Sennussi
have always worked for a close union of all Islam against Western domination.

Such is the situation in the Near East--a situation very grave and full of trouble. The most
hopeful portent is the apparent awakening of the British Government to the growing perils of
the hour, and its consequent modifications of attitude. The labours of men like Lord Milner
and Sir Percy Cox, however hampered by purblind influences, can scarcely be wholly barren of
results. Such men are the diplomatic descendants of Chatham and of Durham; the upholders of
that great political tradition which has steered the British Empire safely through crises that
appeared hopeless.

On the other hand, the darkest portent in the Near East is the continued intransigeance of
France. Steeped in its old traditions, French policy apparently refuses to face realities.
If an explosion comes, as come it must unless France modifies her attitude; if, some dark day,
thirty or forty French battalions are caught in a simoom of Arab fury blowing out of the desert
and are annihilated in a new Adowa; the regretful verdict of many versed in Eastern affairs
can only be: "French policy has deserved it."

Leaving the Near Eastern problem at this critical juncture to the inscrutable solution of the
future, let us now turn to the great political problem of the Middle East--the nationalist
movement in India. Also the articles by Léon Cahun in Lavisse et Rambaud, previously cited;
and L. Rousseau, L'Effort Ottoman (Paris, 1907).

[139] Bérard, Le Sultan, l'Islam et les Puissances, p. 16 (Paris, 1907).

[140] Cited by Bérard, p. 19.

[141] Cited by Bérard, p. 20.

[142] Le Revéil de la Nation arabe, by Negib Azoury (Paris, 1905).

[143] The semi-legendary founder of the Ottoman Empire.

[144] The texts of both the above documents can be most conveniently found in E. Jung, Les
Puissances devant la Révolte arabe: La Crise mondiale de Demain, pp. 23-25 (Paris, 1906).

[145] A good analysis of Arab affairs on the eve of the Great War is that of the Moslem publicist
"X," "Les Courants politiques dans le Monde arabe," Revue du Monde musulman, December, 1913.
Also see G. W. Bury, Arabia Infelix, or the Turks in Yemen (London, 1915).

[147] Georg Schweinfurth, Die Wiedergeburt Ägyptens im Lichte eines aufgeklärten Islam (Berlin,
1895).

[148] Low, Egypt in Transition, p. 260 (London, 1914).

[149] The Asiatic Review, April, 1914.

[150] "L'Égypte et les Débuts du Protectorat," Revue des Sciences Politiques, 15 June, 1915.

[151] Mohammed Farid Bey, "L'Égypte et la Guerre," Revue Politique Internationale, May, 1915.

[152] Abd-el-Malek Hamsa, "Die ägyptische Frage," Asien, November, 1916.

[153] A good summary of Berber history is H. Weisgerber, Les Blancs d'Afrique (Paris, 1910).

[154] For analyses of differences between Arabs and Berbers, see Caix de Saint-Aymour, Arabes
et Kabyles (Paris, 1891); A. Bel, Coup d'Oeil sur l'Islam en Berbérie (Paris, 1917).

[155] For short historical summary, see A. C. Coolidge, "The European Reconquest of North Africa,"
American Historical Review, July, 1912.

[156] For these nationalist movements in French North Africa, see A. Servier, Le Nationalisme
musulman (Constantine, Algeria, 1913); P. Lapie, Les Civilisations tunisiennes (Paris, 1898);
P. Millet, "Les Jeunes-Algériens," Revue de Paris, 1 November, 1913. See also Vambéry, Western
Culture in Eastern Lands; General Sir T. E. Gordon, "The Reform Movement in Persia," Proceedings
of the Central Asian Society, 13 March, 1907.

[158] See W. Morgan Shuster, The Strangling of Persia (New York, 1912). Also, for earlier phase
of the revolution, see E. G. Browne, The Revolution in Persia (London, 1910).

[159] E. G. Browne, "The Present Situation in Persia," Contemporary Review, November, 1912.

[162] For these activities, see article by "X," quoted above; also Ahmed Emin, The Development
of Modern Turkey as Measured by its Press (New York, 1914).

[163] For these Pan-Turanian tendencies in Hungary and Bulgaria, see my article "Pan-Turanism,"
American Political Science Review, February, 1917.

[164] See article by "X," quoted above; also his article "Les Courants politiques dans la Turquie
contemporaine," Revue du Monde musulman, December, 1912.

[165] Ex-Chief of General Staff (Ottoman) Ernst Paraquin, in the Berliner Tageblatt, January
24, 1920. For Turkish nationalist activities and attitudes during the war, see further I. D.
1199--A Manual on the Turanians and Pan-Turanianism. Compiled by the Geographical Section of
the Naval Intelligence Division, Naval Staff, Admiralty (London, 1919); E. F. Benson, Crescent
and Iron Cross (London, 1918); M. A. Czaplicka, The Turks of Central Asia: An Inquiry into
the Pan-Turanian Problem (Oxford, 1918); H. Morgenthau, Ambassador Morgenthau's Story (New
York, 1918); Dr. Harry Stürmer, Two War-Years in Constantinople (New York, 1917); A. Mandelstam,
"The Turkish Spirit," New Europe, April 22, 1920.

[166] For Pan-Arab developments, see A. Musil, Zur Zeitgeschichte von Arabien (Leipzig, 1918);
M. Pickthall, "Turkey, England, and the Present Crisis," Asiatic Review, October 1, 1914; A.
Servier, Le Nationalisme musulman; Sheick Abd-el-Aziz Schauisch, "Das Machtgebiet der arabischen
Sprache," Preussische Jahrbücher, September, 1916.

[167] Literally "House of Islam." All non-Moslem lands are collectively known as "Dar-ul-Harb"
or "House of War."

[168] I. e., the organized group of followers of a particular religion.

[169] Mohammed Ali, "Le Mouvement musulman dans l'Inde," Revue Politique Internationale, January,
1914. He headed the so-called "Khilafat Delegation" sent by the Indian Moslems to England in
1919 to protest against the partition of the Ottoman Empire by the peace treaties.

[170] A. Servier, Le Nationalisme musulman, p. 181.

[172] Egyptian White Book: Collection of Official Correspondence of the Egyptian Delegation
to the Peace Conference (Paris, 1919).

[173] G. Civimini, in the Corriere della Sera, December 30, 1919.

[174] Madame Jehan d'Ivray, "En Égypte," Revue de Paris, September 15, 1920. Madame d'Ivray
cites other picturesque incidents of a like character. See also Annexes to Egyptian White Book,
previously quoted. These Annexes contain numerous depositions, often accompanied by photographs,
alleging severities and atrocities by the British troops.

[175] Contained in the press statements previously mentioned.

[176] Sir M. McIlwraith, "Egyptian Nationalism," Edinburgh Review, July, 1919. See also Hon.
W. Ormsby-Gore, "The Future in Egypt," New Europe, November 6, 1919.

[177] For unfortunate aspects of this delay, see Sir Valentine Chirol, "Conflicting Policies
in the East," New Europe, July 1, 1920.

[179] A notable example is General Maude's proclamation to the Mesopotamian Arabs in March, 1917.

[180] Article xxii.

[181] From a speech delivered September 19, 1919.

[182] For examples of this pre-war imperialist propaganda, see G. Poignant, "Les Intérêts français
en Syrie," Questions diplomatiques et coloniales, March 1-16, 1913. Among other interesting
facts, the author cites Premier Poincaré's declaration before the Chamber of Deputies, December
21, 1912: "I need not remark that in the Lebanon and Syria particularly we have traditional
interests and that we intend to make them respected." See also J. Atalla, "Les Trois Solutions
de la Question syrienne," Questions diplomatiques et coloniales, October 16, 1913; L. Le Fur,
Le Protectorat de la France sur les Catholiques d'Orient (Paris, 1914).

[183] Quoted by Senator E. Flandrin in his article "Nos Droits en Syrie et en Palestine," Revue
Hebdomadaire, June 5, 1915. For other examples of French imperialist propaganda, see, besides
above article, C. G. Bassim, La Question du Liban (Paris, 1915); H. Baudouin, "La Syrie: Champ
de Bataille politique," La Revue Mondiale, February 1-15, 1920; Comte Cressaty, La Syrie française
(Paris, 1916); F. Laudet, "La France du Levant," Revue Hebdomadaire, March 1, 1919.

[184] Baudouin, supra. For other violent anti-British comment, see Laudet, supra.

[185] For sharp British criticisms of the French attitude in Syria, see Beckles Wilson, "Our
Amazing Syrian Adventure," National Review, September, 1920; W. Urinowski, "The Arab Cause,"
Balkan Review, September, 1920. Both of these writers were officers in the British forces in
the Arab area. See also strong articles by "Taira" in the Balkan Review, August and October, 1920.

[186] For accounts of French severities, see articles just quoted.

[187] B. G. Gaulis in L'Opinion, April 24, 1920.

[188] Le Populaire, February 16, 1920.

[189] For the details of these events, see my article on Persia in The Century, January, 1920.

[190] Statement given to the press in August, 1920.

[191] Henri de Chambon, editor of La Revue Parlementaire.

CHAPTER VI

NATIONALISM IN INDIA

India is a land of paradox. Possessing a fundamental geographical unity, India has never known
real political union save that recently imposed externally by the British "Raj." Full of warlike
stocks, India has never been able to repel invaders. Occupied by many races, these races have
never really fused, but have remained distinct and mutually hostile, sundered by barriers of
blood, speech, culture, and creed. Thus India, large and populous as Europe or China, has neither,
like China, evolved a generalized national unity; nor, like Europe, has developed a specialized
national diversity; but has remained an amorphous, unstable indeterminate, with tendencies
in both directions which were never carried to their logical conclusion.

India's history has been influenced mainly by three great invasions: the Aryan invasion, commencing
about 1500 B.C.; the Mohammedan invasion, extending roughly from A.D. 1000 to 1700, and the
English invasion, beginning about A.D. 1750 and culminating a century later in a complete conquest
which has lasted to the present day.

The Aryans were a fair-skinned people, unquestionably of the same general stock as ourselves.
Pressing down from Central Asia through those north-western passes where alone land-access
is possible to India, elsewhere impregnably guarded by the mountain wall of the Himalayas,
the Aryans subdued the dark-skinned Dravidian aborigines, and settled down as masters. This
conquest was, however, superficial and partial. The bulk of the Aryans remained in the north-west,
the more adventurous spirits scattering thinly over the rest of the vast peninsula. Even in
the north large areas of hill-country and jungle remained in the exclusive possession of the
aborigines, while very few Aryans ever penetrated the south. Over most of India, therefore,
the Aryans were merely a small ruling class superimposed upon a much more numerous subject
population. Fearing to be swallowed up in the Dravidian ocean, the Aryans attempted to preserve
their political ascendancy and racial purity by the institution of "caste," which has ever
since remained the basis of Indian social life. Caste was originally a "colour line." But it
was enforced not so much by civil law as by religion. Society was divided into three castes:
Brahmins, or priests; Kshatriyas, or warriors; and Sudras, or workers. The Aryans monopolized
the two upper castes, the Sudras being the Dravidian subject population. These castes were
kept apart by a rigorous series of religious taboos. Intermarriage, partaking of food and drink,
even physical propinquity, entailed ceremonial defilement sometimes inexpiable. Disobedience
to these taboos was punished with the terrible penalty of "outcasting," whereby the offender
did not merely fall to a lower rank in the caste hierarchy but sank even below the Sudra and
became a "Pariah," or man of no-caste, condemned to the most menial and revolting occupations,
and with no rights which even the Sudra was bound to respect. Thus Indian society was governed,
not by civil, but by ceremonially religious law; while, conversely, the nascent Indian religion
("Brahminism") became not ethical but social in character.

These things produced the most momentous consequences. As a "colour line," caste worked very
imperfectly. Despite its prohibitions, even the Brahmins became more or less impregnated with
Dravidian blood.[192] But as a social system caste continued to function in ways peculiar to
itself. The three original castes gradually subdivided into hundreds and even thousands of
sub-castes. These sub-castes had little or nothing of the original racial significance. But
they were all just as exclusive as the primal trio, and the outcome was a shattering of Indian
society into a chaos of rigid social atoms, between which co-operation or even understanding
was impossible. The results upon Indian history are obvious. Says a British authority: "The
effect of this permanent maintenance of human types is that the population is heterogeneous
to the last degree. It is no question of rich and poor, of town and country, of employer and
employed: the differences lie far deeper. The population of a district or a town is a collection
of different nationalities--almost different species--of mankind that will not eat or drink
or intermarry with one another, and that are governed in the more important affairs of life
by committees of their own. It is hardly too much to say that by the caste system the inhabitants
of India are differentiated into over two thousand species, which, in the intimate physical
relations of life, have as little in common as the inmates of a zoological garden."[193]

