In the afternoon succeeding my arrival, the Secretary accompanied me to visit the Sultan. We
were kept waiting a few minutes in an outer gate-house, and then ushered to the door of a rude,
half-fortified whitewashed house. A small table and three chairs were placed in a large outer
corridor, and an old dirty-faced man with grey hair and a grimy beard, dressed in a speckled
blue cotton jacket and loose red trousers, came forward, shook hands, and asked me to be coated.
After a quarter of an hour's conversation on my pursuits, in which his Majesty seemed to take
great interest, tea and cakes-of rather better quality than usual on such occasions-were brought
in. I thanked him for the house, and offered to show him my collections, which he promised
to come and look at. He then asked me to teach him to take views-to make maps-to get him a
small gun from England, and a milch-goat from Bengal; all of which requests I evaded as skilfully
as I was able, and we parted very good friends. He seemed a sensible old man, and lamented
the small population of the island, which he assured me was rich in many valuable minerals,
including gold; but there were not people enough to look after them and work them. I described
to him the great rush of population on the discovery of the Australian gold mines, and the
huge nuggets found there, with which he was much interested, and exclaimed, "Oh? if we had
but people like that, my country would be quite as rich."

The morning after I had got into my new house, I sent my boys out to shoot, and went myself
to explore the road to the coal mines. In less than half a mile it entered the virgin forest,
at a place where some magnificent trees formed a kind of natural avenue. The first part was
flat and swampy, but it soon rose a little, and ran alongside the fine stream which passed
behind my house, and which here rushed and gurgled over a rocky or pebbly bed, sometimes leaving
wide sandbanks on its margins, and at other places flowing between high banks crowned with
a varied and magnificent forest vegetation. After about two miles, the valley narrowed, and
the road was carried along the steep hill-side which rose abruptly from the water's edge. In
some places the rock had been cut away, but its surface was already covered with elegant ferns
and creepers. Gigantic tree-ferns were abundant, and the whole forest had an air of luxuriance
and rich variety which it never attains in the dry volcanic soil to which I had been lately
accustomed. A little further the road passed to the other side of the valley by a bridge across
the stream at a place where a great mass of rock in the middle offered an excellent support
for it, and two miles more of most picturesque and interesting road brought me to the mining
establishment.

This is situated in a large open space, at a spot where two tributaries fall into the main
stream. Several forest-paths and new clearings offered fine collecting grounds, and I captured
some new and interesting insects; but as it was getting late I had to reserve a more thorough
exploration for future occasions. Coal had been discovered here some years before, and the
road was made in order to bring down a sufficient quantity for a fair trial on the Dutch steamers.
The quality, however, was not thought sufficiently good, and the mines were abandoned. Quite
recently, works had been commenced in another spot, in Hopes of finding a better vein. There
ware about eighty men employed, chiefly convicts; but this was far too small a number for mining
operations in such a country, where the mere keeping a few miles of road in repair requires
the constant work of several men. If coal of sufficiently good quality should be found, a tramroad
would be made, and would be very easily worked, owing to the regular descent of the valley.

Just as I got home I overtook Ali returning from shooting with some birch hanging from his
belt. He seemed much pleased, and said, "Look here, sir, what a curious bird," holding out
what at first completely puzzled me. I saw a bird with a mass of splendid green feathers on
its breast, elongated into two glittering tufts; but, what I could not understand was a pair
of long white feathers, which stuck straight out from each shoulder. Ali assured me that the
bird stuck them out this way itself, when fluttering its wings, and that they had remained
so without his touching them. I now saw that I had got a great prize, no less than a completely
new form of the Bird of Paradise, differing most remarkably from every other known bird. The
general plumage is very sober, being a pure ashy olive, with a purplish tinge on the back;
the crown of the head is beautifully glossed with pale metallic violet, and the feathers of
the front extend as much over the beak as inmost of the family. The neck and breast are scaled
with fine metallic green, and the feathers on the lower part are elongated on each side, so
as to form a two-pointed gorget, which can be folded beneath the wings, or partially erected
and spread out in the same way as the side plumes of most of the birds of paradise. The four
long white plumes which give the bird its altogether unique character, spring from little tubercles
close to the upper edge of the shoulder or bend of the wing; they are narrow, gentle curved,
and equally webbed on both sides, of a pure creamy white colour. They are about six inches
long, equalling the wing, and can be raised at right angles to it, or laid along the body at
the pleasure of the bird. The bill is horn colour, the legs yellow, and the iris pale olive.
This striking novelty has been named by Mr. G. R. Gray of the British Museum, Semioptera Wallacei,
or "Wallace's Standard wing."

A few days later I obtained an exceedingly beautiful new butterfly, allied to the fine blue
Papilio Ulysses, but differing from it in the colour being of a more intense tint, and in having
a row of blue stripes around the margin of the lower wings. This good beginning was, however,
rather deceptive, and I soon found that insects, and especially butterflies, were somewhat
scarce, and birds in tar less variety than I had anticipated. Several of the fine Moluccan
species were however obtained. The handsome red lory with green wings and a yellow spot in
the back (Lorius garrulus), was not uncommon. When the Jambu, or rose apple (Eugenic sp.),
was in flower in the village, flocks of the little lorikeet (Charmosyna placentis), already
met with in Gilolo, came to feed upon the nectar, and I obtained as many specimens as I desired.
Another beautiful bird of the parrot tribe was the Geoffroyus cyanicollis, a green parrot with
a red bill and head, which colour shaded on the crown into azure blue, and thence into verditer
blue and the green of the back. Two large and handsome fruit pigeons, with metallic green,
ashy, and rufous plumage, were not uncommon; and I was rewarded by finding a splendid deep
blue roller (Eurystomus azureus); a lovely golden-capped sunbird (Nectarinea auriceps), and
a fine racquet-tailed kingfisher (Tanysiptera isis), all of which were entirely new to ornithologists.
Of insects I obtained a considerable number of interesting beetles, including many fine longicorns,
among which was the largest and handsomest species of the genus Glenea yet discovered. Among
butterflies the beautiful little Danis sebae was abundant, making the forests gay with its
delicate wings of white and the richest metallic blue; while showy Papilios, and pretty Pieridae,
and dark, rich Euphaeas, many of them new, furnished a constant source of interest and pleasing
occupation.

The island of Batchian possesses no really indigenous inhabitants, the interior being altogether
uninhabited; and there are only a few small villages on various parts of the coast; yet I found
here four distinct races, which would wofully mislead an ethnological traveller unable to obtain
information as to their origin, first there are the Batchian Malays, probably the earliest
colonists, differing very little from those of Ternate. Their language, however, seems to have
more of the Papuan element, with a mixture of pure Malay, showing that the settlement is one
of stragglers of various races, although now sufficiently homogeneous. Then there are the "Orang
Sirani," as at Ternate and Amboyna. Many of these have the Portuguese physiognomy strikingly
preserved, but combined with a skin generally darker than the Malays. Some national customs
are retained, and the Malay, which is their only language, contains a large number of Portuguese
words and idioms. The third race consists of the Galela men from the north of Gilolo, a singular
people, whom I have already described; and the fourth is a colony from Tomóre, in the eastern
peninsula of Celebes. These people were brought here at their own request a few years ago,
to avoid extermination by another tribe. They have a very light complexion, open Tartar physiognomy,
low stature, and a language of the Bugis type. They are an industrious agricultural people,
and supply the town with vegetables. They make a good deal of bark cloth, similar to the tapa
of the Polynesians, by cutting down the proper trees and taping off large cylinders of bark,
which is beaten with mallets till it separates from the wood. It is then soaked, and so continuously
and regularly beaten out that it becomes as thin and as tough as parchment. In this foam it
is much used for wrappers for clothes; and they also make jackets of it, sewn neatly together
and stained with the juice of another kind of bark, which gives it a dark red colour and renders
it nearly waterproof.

Here are four very distinct kinds of people who may all be seen any day in and about the town
of Batchian. Now if we suppose a traveller ignorant of Malay, picking up a word or two here
and there of the "Batchian language," and noting down the "physical and moral peculiarities,
manners, and customs of the Batchian people"--(for there are travellers who do all this in
four-and-twenty hours)--what an accurate and instructive chapter we should have' what transitions
would be pointed out, what theories of the origin of races would be developed while the next
traveller might flatly contradict every statement and arrive at exactly opposite conclusions.

Soon after I arrived here the Dutch Government introduced a new copper coinage of cents instead
of doits (the 100th instead of the 120th part of a guilder), and all the old coins were ordered
to be sent to Ternate to be changed. I sent a bag containing 6,000 doits, and duly received
the new money by return of the boat. Then Ali went to bring it, however, the captain required
a written order; so I waited to send again the next day, and it was lucky I did so, for that
night my house was entered, all my boxes carried out and ransacked, and the various articles
left on the road about twenty yards off, where we found them at five in the morning, when,
on getting up and finding the house empty, we rushed out to discover tracks of the thieves.
Not being able to find the copper money which they thought I had just received, they decamped,
taking nothing but a few yards of cotton cloth and a black coat and trousers, which latter
were picked up a few days afterwards hidden in the grass. There was no doubt whatever who were
the thieves. Convicts are employed to guard the Government stores when the boat arrives from
Ternate. Two of them watch all night, and often take the opportunity to roam about and commit
robberies.

The next day I received my money, and secured it well in a strong box fastened under my bed.
I took out five or six hundred cents for daily expenses, and put them in a small japanned box,
which always stood upon my table. In the afternoon I went for a short walk, and on my return
this box and my keys, which I had carelessly left on the table, were gone. Two of my boys were
in the house, but had heard nothing. I immediately gave information of the two robberies to
the Director at the mines and to the Commandant at the fort, and got for answer, that if I
caught the thief in the act I might shoot him. By inquiry in the village, we afterwards found
that one of the convicts who was on duty at the Government rice-store in the village had quitted
his guard, was seen to pass over the bridge towards my house, was seen again within two hundred
yards of my house, and on returning over the bridge into the village carried something under
his arm, carefully covered with his sarong. My box was stolen between the hours he was seen
going and returning, and it was so small as to be easily carried in the way described. This
seemed pretty clear circumstantial evidence. I accused the man and brought the witnesses to
the Commandant. The man was examined, and confessed having gone to the river close to my house
to bathe; but said he had gone no farther, having climbed up a cocoa-nut tree and brought home
two nuts, which he had covered over, because he was ashamed to be seen carrying them! This
explanation was thought satisfactory, and he was acquitted. I lost my cash and my box, a seal
I much valued, with other small articles, and all my keys-the severest loss by far. Luckily
my large cash-box was left locked, but so were others which I required to open immediately.
There was, however, a very clever blacksmith employed to do ironwork for the mines, and he
picked my locks for me when I required them, and in a few days made me new keys, which I used
all the time I was abroad.

Towards the end of November the wet season set in, and we had daily and almost incessant rains,
with only about one or two hours' sunshine in the morning. The flat parts of the forest became
flooded, the roads filled with mud, and insects and birds were scarcer than ever. On December
Lath, in the afternoon, we had a sharp earthquake shock, which made the house and furniture
shale and rattle for five minutes, and the trees and shrubs wave as if a gust of wind had passed
over them. About the middle of December I removed to the village, in order more easily to explore
the district to the west of it, and to be near the sea when I wished to return to Ternate.
I obtained the use of a good-sized house in the Campong Sirani (or Christian village), and
at Christmas and the New Year had to endure the incessant gun-firing, drum-beating, and fiddling
of the inhabitants.

These people are very fond of music and dancing, and it would astonish a European to visit
one of their assemblies. We enter a gloomy palm-leaf hut, in which two or three very dim lamps
barely render darkness visible. The floor is of black sandy earth, the roof hid in a smoky
impenetrable blackness; two or three benches stand against the walls, and the orchestra consists
of a fiddle, a fife, a drum, and a triangle. There is plenty of company, consisting of young
men and women, all very neatly dressed in white and black--a true Portuguese habit. Quadrilles,
waltzes, polkas, and mazurkas are danced with great vigour and much skill. The refreshments
are muddy coffee and a few sweetmeats. Dancing is kept up for hours, and all is conducted with
much decorum and propriety. A party of this kind meets about once a week, the principal inhabitants
taking it by turns, and all who please come in without much ceremony.

