To the Tyndals I said that word had arrived from you, and that in confidence I would tell them
that you and Miss Lethbridge are as good as engaged. At least, that you had a private understanding
which would be an engagement if Sir Lionel weren't a dog in the manger. He didn't want the
girl himself, I explained, yet he didn't want to give her to anyone else--short of a millionaire.
You, I went on to say, had wired that you would be back this evening, and Ellaline was dying
to stay and see you. Sir Lionel didn't know you were coming, I confessed, and would be angry
if he did; but if they--the Tyndals--could somehow misunderstand the arrangements made overnight,
and in the confusion of their minds leave Miss Lethbridge behind, it would be a great favour
to everyone concerned--except Sir Lionel.

The Tyndals, who think a lot of themselves because they have more money than brains, are annoyed
with Sir L. because he snapped at them about Venice; so they were rather pleased at the idea
of doing him a bad turn and at the same time advancing Love's Young Dream. When I assured them
it would be easy to say that they understood Ellaline had changed her mind and was going with
Sir Lionel, they agreed to slip off without her about half an hour after the flight of Apollo.
That is the plan, as it stands, up to date. Sir Lionel and Mrs. Norton won't know till this
evening at Bideford that E. isn't with the Tyndals; and then of course I shall get George and
Sallie out of his bad graces as well as I can. Meanwhile you will find her at Tintagel, and
can bring her on by rail. That will be delightful for you; and as Sir Lionel is old-fashioned
in some of his notions, he may be more inclined to consent to an engagement between you after
the sort of journey you and she will have together. So I think all interests will have been served.

I am writing in the big hall of the hotel, and Sir Lionel is walking up and down, glaring first
out of one window, and then out of another, at the rain, which is beginning to come down in
drops as large as half-crowns. I only wish my half crowns, or even my shillings, were as plentiful!
But perhaps they will be, some day before long--who knows? I do hope Ellaline won't take it
into her head to appear at the last minute before we get off, and complicate things. Not that
I won't be equal to disposing of her if she does! But no! here is Young Nick, very meek and
soapy. He has got his petrol. Emily Norton reluctantly puts down a twenty-year-old volume of
Blackwood which she has found in the hotel library. We are off. Good-bye--and good luck.

Gwen.

XXIII

AUDRIE BRENDON TO HER MOTHER

Tintagel, August 13th

Dearest Lodestar: I can feel you drawing me across miles of land and sea, and if only I could
travel on a telepathic pass I would start this minute, Ellaline or no Ellaline. Toward her
and Sir Lionel I feel as Mercutio felt toward the Montagus and Capulets: "A plague on both
your houses!" Nobody seems to care what becomes of me. Why should I care what becomes of them?

Everything is too horrid and too extraordinary to-day. I got into the wrong side of bed last
night, and got out again on the wrong side this morning. It happened to be the only side there
was, as the bed stands against the wall in an alcove, where it can't be pulled out; and nobody
could expect me to bound like a kangaroo over the foot, could they? But there are times in
life when every side of everything is wrong; and this is one of those times with me--has been
since dinner last night, when Sir Lionel grinned with joy at the prospect of shunting me upon
the Tyndal family for a day. (When you are friends with people they smile; when you are out
with them, they grin.)

Well, this morning I thought I wouldn't hurry to get down. I felt, if Mrs. Senter beamed at
me from under her becoming motor-hat at starting, I should do her a mischief, and if Emily
smirked inoffensively I should throw Murray in her face. As for Sir Lionel--words fail to express
what I believed myself capable of doing to him. I could have stolen his car, in which he appeared
to grudge me a seat, and have gone off with it into space to be a motor pirate. Whence can
I have inherited these vicious tendencies? Truly, I never supposed I had them before; but you
don't know yourself until people have practically accused you of taking up too much room in
their old automobiles, although you're perfectly aware that you are less than eighteen inches
wide at your broadest part in your thickest frock, and you thought they liked your society
and kept your gloves. In that mood I wouldn't have condescended to see Apollo off if he'd been
twice a god, armed with an invitation for me from Juno to a house-party on Olympus.

No sooner, however, did I hear his dear familiar purr as he swept away from the door of the
hotel (my balcony is a corner one, and I could just catch the well-known c-r-r-r) when I regretted
intensely that I hadn't been en evidence, looking indifferent. Suddenly, I suffered pangs of
apprehension lest my stopping in my room had seemed like (what it really was) a fit of the
sulks; but it was past repentance-time. Apollo was gone, Mrs. Senter doubtless sitting by Sir
Lionel's side as usual, and probably commenting wittily on my silly conduct.

The Tyndals told me last night that they meant to start at ten, so I went downstairs five minutes
before, too late to have to wait about, too early to be called. I expected to find them in
the hall, and when they weren't there, I strolled out to see if the motor had come to the door,
thinking they might be watching the loading up of their luggage. As for mine, Apollo had taken
it as usual, except a pretty little fitted handbag, small and wonderfully convenient, which
Sir Lionel came across in a shop and bought for me (I mean for Ellaline) at Torquay. But there
wasn't a Tyndal in sight, and not so much as the smell of a motor-car, so I wandered inside
and asked the handsome landlady, whom I met near King Arthur's Round Table, whether she had
seen the Tyndal automobile or its owners.

"Why," said she, "they went off about ten minutes ago."

"Went off--where?" I asked blankly.

"To Bideford, I think they were going," she replied.

"That can't be, for I was to have gone with them," said I.

"Indeed?" exclaimed the landlady, polite but puzzled. "I didn't know. I thought you had gone
with your own party. I was surprised to meet you here just now. I'm afraid there must have
been some misunderstanding, for certainly Mr. and Mrs. Tyndal and their young cousin have really
gone, because they bade me good-bye here in the hall, and said they hoped to come back some day."

She looked at me pityingly, and I felt exactly like Robinson Crusoe before he knew there was
going to be a Friday; but, like him, I kept a stiff upper lip. I am happy to say I even laughed.
"Well, that's very funny," said I, as if being pigeon-holed by Sir Lionel and marooned by the
Tyndals was the most amusing experience in the world, and I simply delighted in it. "Of course,
somebody or other will count noses and miss me after a while. Then they'll have to come back
and fetch me, I suppose."

"You could go on to Bideford by rail, if you liked," the landlady informed me gratuitously.
"There is a train early this afternoon, and----"

"Oh, I think I'd better wait here," I said. "If they came back and found me gone, it would
be too complicated."

She agreed; but she little guessed how much more complicated it would be to take a train for
anywhere without any pennies. If I had money, I would go to you, and not to Bideford. At least,
that is the way I feel now; but I suppose I wouldn't, for my obligations to Ellaline haven't
snapped with the strain of the situation, although just at this moment they don't seem to matter.
It's only deep down in my heart that I know they do matter.

There is my scrape, dearest of women, and mamma whom I would select if I were able to choose
among all eligible mothers since Eve, up to date. The situation hasn't changed in the least,
to the time of writing, except that it has lasted longer, and got frayed round the edges.

I was paid for, including food and lodging, until after breakfast. It is now half-past five
o'clock P.M., pouring with rain, howling with wind, and not only has nobody come back to collect
me, but nobody has telephoned or telegraphed. I have eaten, or pretended to eat, a luncheon,
for which I have no money to pay. I refused tea, but was so kindly urged that I had to reconsider;
and the buttered toast of servitude is at this moment sticking in my throat, lodged on the
sharp edge of an unuttered sob. Your poor, forlorn little daughter! What is to become of her?
Will she have to go to the place of unclaimed parcels? Or will she be sold as bankrupt stock?
Or will she become a kitchen-maid or "tweeny" in King Arthur's Castle? But don't worry, darling.
I won't be such a beast as to post this letter till something is settled, somehow, even if
I have to rob the hotel till.

There is nothing to do except write, for I can't compose my mind to read; so I will continue
recording my emotions, as French criminals do when condemned to death, or lovesick ladies when
they have swallowed slow poison.

5.50.--Rain worse. Wind yelling imprecations. I sit in the hall, as I can't call my room my
own. New people are arriving. They look Cook-ey, but are probably Countesses. I gaze at them
haughtily, and try to appear prosperous. I hope they think my mother, the Duchess, is taking
a nap in our magnificent suite upstairs, while I write a letter to my godfather, the Prince,
to thank him for his birthday gift of a rope of pearls which reaches to my knees.

6.15.--The landlady has just been sympathizing with me. She says there is a night train to
Bideford. I have poured cold water upon the night train to Bideford, and came near pouring
some hot tears on the timetable she kindly brought me.

6.25.--People are going up to dress for dinner. They are God's creatures, but I do not love them.

6.40.--The head-waiter has just fluttered up to ask if I would like a smaller table for dinner.
No table would be too small for my appetite. I said----

7.10.--Darling, Sir Lionel has come back for me, alone, dripping wet, and it was all a mistake,
and he did want me, and he's furious with everybody in the world except me, to whom he is perfectly
adorable. And I'm afraid I adore him. And we're starting at once, when we've had a sandwich
and coffee--can't wait for dinner. Everything is too nice. I'll explain as soon as I've time
to write.

Your Radiant Transformation Scene,

A. B.

XXIV

AUDRIE BRENDON TO HER MOTHER

The Luttrell Arms, Dunster, Aug. 18th

Duck of the Universe: Five days since I wrote, and it seems five minutes. But I did telegraph--with
my last shilling; and even that would be rightfully Ellaline's, if the labourer weren't worthy
of his hire.

You see, after the letter I had from her in Torquay, when she wanted money to go to Scotland
with her new friends, the McNamaras, I very reluctantly screwed my courage to the asking point,
and got more out of Sir Lionel. If he weren't the most generous man in the world he would have
privately dubbed me "Oliver Twist" by this time. Perhaps he has! But I trust not. Anyhow, I
shall get on without more requests, I hope, until the next "allowance" day comes round; or
until every pin is lost and every hairpin has dropped out.

Because in the telegram I was forced to be economical, and ran only to "All well. Love" ("much"
scratched out as an extravagance), I must now go back to the moment of Sir Lionel's unexpected,
almost miraculous, appearance at Tintagel.

There I was in the hall, scribbling dolefully about my symptoms. "Teuf, teuf, teuf!" heard
outside, between screeches of wind. In bounces Sir Lionel, wet as a merman, dripping rivulets
at every step, splashing, swashing in his boots, drops dripping from his eyelashes; glares
around, looking ready to bite someone's head off without salt or sauce; sees me; brightens
with a watery gleam; comes toward me, rather shy and stiff, yet evidently under the influence
of--emotion of some sort. I didn't know whether to expect a scolding or a blessing, so waited
speechless.

"What a brute you must think me," was his first remark. I drank it as a thirsty traveller lost
on the Sahara would bolt a pint of dew.

"I didn't know what to think," I replied conservatively. "But you are wet, aren't you?"

"Am I?" he asked, mildly surprised. "I hadn't noticed. I suppose I am. It's raining."

"I should think it was," said I. And then we both laughed. It is the nicest thing, to laugh
with Sir Lionel! Whatever he might have done against me, I forgave him all instantly.

"Never mind whether I'm wet or dry," he went on. "Whichever I am, it won't hurt me. The only
thing that has hurt was thinking of you being here--abandoned. By Jove!--I've been in a murderous
mood!"

"A good thing you weren't back in Bengal," said I, mildly.

He looked at me with a sharp look. "Who has been telling you tales about me in Bengal?"

"I sometimes read newspapers," I explained.

"Schoolgirls have no business with newspapers. But hang Bengal! I want to come to an understanding
with you. Is it true or is it not that you wanted to go with the Tyndals in their motor to-day?"

"I wanted to, if you wanted me to."

"I didn't. I hated the idea. But, of course, if you----"

"I didn't. I hated the idea. But I thought your motor was too full for such hilly country."

(Dearest, I longed to tell him who had said that he had said, etc., etc.; but I'd promised;
and one must keep one's promises even to Cats.)

"My dear child," Sir Lionel burst out, "little girls shouldn't do too much independent thinking.
It's bad for their health and their guardians' tempers. If my motor had been too full for hilly
country, you wouldn't have been the Jonah to cast into the sea. Nick would have been fed to
the whales. But the idea was ridiculous--ridiculous!"

I was so happy, I didn't even want to defend myself. I understood most of the mystery now.
I suppose it's a compliment to a girl if a woman of the world wants to get rid of her. Anyhow,
I consoled myself for hours of misery by laying that flattering unction to my soul.

If I had liked, I could have unravelled the whole tangle for Sir Lionel's still puzzled mind;
but if I had done so, I should have been returning cat-claw for cat-claw; so I pretended to
be "lost in it, my lord"; and, indeed, it was true that I couldn't understand why the Tyndals
had failed me.

Sir Lionel explained that, just before reaching Bideford the silencer worked loose, and so
got upon Mrs. Norton's nerves that Apollo was stopped in the pouring rain for Young Nick to
right the wrong. As if to prove the truth of the proverb, "the more haste the less speed,"
in his hurry poor Buddha burnt his hand. While he was wringing it like a distracted goblin,
along came the Tyndal car, which had left Tintagel about half an hour after Apollo. To Sir
Lionel's amazement, no me! Questions on his part; according to him, idiotic answers on the
part of the Tyndals. He had thought, of course, I was going with them. They had thought that
I'd changed my mind, and gone earlier with him. Everybody confused, apologetic, repeating the
same silly excuses over and over, three or four times. Nobody showing the slightest sign of
having a remnant of common sense.

"By Jove! I could have cheerfully executed the lot of them--all but the boy, who seemed to
have some glimmerings of sanity," grumbled Sir Lionel. "He had wanted to run up and knock at
your door, to make sure you really had gone; but somebody--he began to say who, when Mrs. Tyndal
stepped on his foot--forbade him to do it."

I think I can guess who the somebody was, can't you? Though I don't see what arguments she
can have used to persuade the really good-natured Tyndals to abandon me.

The rest of the story is, that when Sir Lionel found I had been left behind, he said he would
at once turn back and fetch me. Judging from one or two things he let slip inadvertently, I
fancy he wanted Emily to come with him, but she drew the line at chaperoning in wet weather,
and missing her tea. She proposed telegraphing for me to come on by rail. Sir Lionel wouldn't
hear of my making such a journey unaccompanied--me, a simple little French schoolgirl who had
never travelled alone in her life! Then Mrs. Senter, kind creature, volunteered to be his companion,
if he must return; but Sir Lionel firmly refused the unselfish offer, saying he wouldn't for
the world put her to so much unnecessary trouble. Nick he would have brought, but the unfortunate
brown image was suffering so much pain from his burnt hand, that the only humane thing to do
was to drive him to a doctor's--which was exactly what Sir Lionel did. Rooms were already engaged
at the Royal Hotel; he dumped out Emily, Mrs. Senter, and the luggage there; left Young Nick
having his hand treated; and without so much as crossing the threshold of the hotel, turned
Apollo's bright bonnet toward Tintagel and me. Rain was coming down in floods. He said nothing
about that, but I knew. The storm drew down twilight like the lid of a box; the road was deep
in mud; everything that could happen to delay the car did happen; once Sir Lionel had to mend
a tire himself, and almost wished he hadn't made Young Nick disgorge the stolen tool; he ought
to have arrived at Tintagel an hour before he did; but here he was at last. And would I have
a sandwich, and then start, or would I prefer to wait for dinner?

I snatched at the sandwich idea, and his eye brightened. He said he only looked wet, for everything
was waterproof, and he was "right as rain"--which sounded too appropriate to be comfortable.

We ate as the Israelites of old in Passover days, figuratively with our staves in our hands;
at least, I had a bag in mine, and Sir Lionel a road book, because he'd lost his way once in
his haste, and didn't want to make further mistakes.

By the time we were ready to start, it was as if Merlin had woven an enchantment of invisibility,
not only over the castle ruins, but over the whole landscape, which was blotted out behind
a white avalanche of rain. The wind howled, mingling with the boom of the sea; and altogether
it was such a bewitched, Walpurgis world that I tingled with excitement.

Sir Lionel wanted to put me inside the car, but I pleaded that I had been so lonely and sad
all day, I must be close to someone now. This plea instantly broke down his determination,
which had been very square-chinned and firm till I happened to think of that argument.

He knew my coat to be waterproof, because he chose it himself in London, and I tied on a perfectly
sweet rain-hood, which I'd never needed before, because this was the only real storm we'd had.
It is a crimson hood, and I knew I was nice in it, from the look of Sir Lionel's eyes.

This was my first night run in the car, and the first time since starting on the tour that
I'd sat on the front seat by his side. Early as it was, it "made night," and Sir Lionel lit
the great lamps. Instantly it was as if a curtain of darkness unrolled on either side, leaving
only the road clear and pale, spouting mud, and the rain in front like a silver veil floating
across black velvet. I sat close to Sir Lionel. I can't tell you how good the sense of his
nearness and protection was, and how glad I felt to know that he hadn't really wanted to send
me away from him. I would have given up anything--no, everything else in the world just then,
for the sake of that knowledge--except, of course, your dear love. We didn't talk much, but
he is one of those men to whom you don't need to talk. The silence was like that unerring kind
of speech when you can't say the wrong thing if you try; and if Sir Lionel had said in the
wind and darkness: "I have got to drive the car into the sea, and you and I must die together
in five minutes," I should have answered: "Very well. With you I'm not afraid." And it would
have been true.

The hills looked stupendous before we quite came to them; great bunchy black humps of night;
but they seemed to kneel like docile elephants as we drew near, to let Apollo mount upon their
backs. We passed lovely old cottages, which in the strange white light of our Bleriots looked
flat, as stage scenery, against that wide-stretched "back-cloth" of inky velvet. It was like
motoring in a dream--one of those dreams born before you've quite dropped asleep, while your
eyes are still open. We tore through Boscastle, and on to Bude, along an empty road, with the
trees flying by like torn black flags, and the rain giving a glimpse now and then of tall cliffs,
as its veil blew aside. I was never so happy in my life, and when I just couldn't help saying
so to Sir Lionel, what do you suppose he answered? "That's exactly what I was thinking." And
then he added: "Good girl! Grand little sportswoman! I'm proud of you!"

Presently, once in a while the dazzling radiance of our lamps would die down and threaten to
fail. At last it did fail altogether, and we were blotted out in the night, as if we had suddenly
ceased to exist. "Carbide all used up," explained Sir Lionel. By this time we were near Hartland
Point (the promontory of Hercules for the ancients) and Sir Lionel said that the best thing
to do was to crawl on slowly until we should come to Clovelly. There we could leave the car
at the top of the hill, go down to the village, rouse someone at a hotel, get hot coffee, and
wait until dawn, when the lamps would no longer be needed.

We could distinguish nothing in the night, except a glimmer of road between dark banks, until
suddenly, looking far down toward the moaning sea, we caught sight of a few lights like yellow
stars which seemed to have been tossed over a precipice, and to have caught on a steep hillside,
as they rolled. "That's Clovelly," said Sir Lionel. He stopped the car on a kind of natural
plateau and lifted me lightly down, so that I shouldn't splash into unseen abysses of mud.
Apollo would be safe there, he said, though in old days the folk of Clovelly used to be not
only desperate smugglers, but wreckers, and would entice ships upon the rocks by means of lure-lights.
They were very different now, and as honest and kind-hearted as any people in the world.

There was no dawn yet, but the wind had dropped a little, and the long crystal spears of rain
seemed to bring with them an evanescent, ethereal glitter, reflected from unseen stars above
the clouds. The trembling silver haze dimly showed us how to pick our way down a steep, narrow
street of steps, over which fountains of water played and swirled. There were lights of boats
in a little harbour, far, far below, and the extraordinary village of tiny white houses appeared
to have tumbled down hill, like a broken string of pearls fallen from a goddess's neck.

Sir Lionel held my arm to keep me from tripping, and we descended the steps slowly, the rain
that sprayed against our faces smelling salt as the sea, its briny "tang" mingling with the
fragrance of honeysuckle and fuchsias. The combination, distilled by the night, was intoxicating;
and if I ever smell it again, even at the other end of the world, my thoughts will run back
to Sir Lionel and the fairy village of Clovelly.

Half-way down the cleft in the cliff, which is Clovelly's one street, we stopped at a house
where a faint light burned sleepily. It was the New Inn, and when Sir Lionel knocked loudly,
I was doubtful as to the reception we were likely to have at such an hour. But I needn't have
worried--in Devon! Even if you wake people out of pleasant dreams to disagreeable realities,
and demand coffee, and trail wet marks over their clean floors, they are kind and friendly.
A delightful man let us in, and instead of scolding, pitied us--a great deal more than I, at
any rate, needed to be pitied. He lit lights, and we saw a quaint room, whose shadows threw
out unexpected gleams of polished brass, and blues and pinks of old china.

Though the calendar said August 13th, the temperature talked it down, and insisted on November,
so an invitation into a clean, warm kitchen was acceptable. The nice man poked up the dying
fire, put on wood and coals, and soon got a kettle of water to boiling. We should have some
good hot coffee, he cheerily promised, before we could say "Jack Robinson." But when it leaked
out that we had had no dinner except a sandwich at Tintagel, and nothing since, his warm Devonshire
heart yearned over us; and to the hot coffee he added eggs and bacon.

While the dear things fizzled and bubbled, we were allowed to sit by the stove and toast our
feet; and if anything could have smelled more heavenly than the salt rain and sweet honeysuckle
out of doors, it would have been the eggs and bacon in the New Inn kitchen.

We begged to eat in the kitchen, too, and even that was permitted us, at a table spread with
a clean cloth which must have been put away in a lavender cupboard. By the time the coffee,
with foaming hot milk, and the sizzling eggs and bacon were ready, the early daylight was blue
on the window panes. The rain had stopped with the first hint of sunrise, and in Clovelly at
least (Clovelly means "shut in valley," a name not worthy of its elfin charm) the wind had
gone to sleep.

I don't know how much Sir Lionel suggested paying for that breakfast, but it must have been
something out of the way, for our Devonshire benefactor protested that it was far too much.
He would accept the regular price, and no more. Why, we had only got him up an hour before
his usual time. That was nothing. It would do him good; and he would have no extra pay.

Warm, comfortable, and refreshed, Sir Lionel and I bade our host good-bye, meaning to continue
our journey to Bideford; but what we saw outside was too beautiful to turn our backs upon in
that unappreciative, summary fashion. It was not sunrise yet, but was just going to be sunrise,
and the world seemed to be waiting for it, hushed and expectant.

The white village glimmered in the pearly light, like a waterfall arrested in its rush down
a cleft in a hill. Not having seen Clovelly, you may think that a far-fetched simile; but really
it isn't. If a young cataract could be turned into a village, that would be Clovelly. The marvellous
little place is absolutely unique; yet if one could liken it to anything else on earth, it
might be to a corner of Mont St. Michel, or a bit of old Bellagio, going down to the sea; and
certainly it is more Italian than English in atmosphere and colouring, only it is perfectly
clean, as clean as a toy, or a Dutch village; so that part of the "atmosphere" isn't entirely
Italian! I even saw waste-paper pots; and if that isn't like Broek in Waterland, what is? Down
in the harbour, the fishing boats lay like a flock of resting birds; and as we descended the
cobbled steps of the street, to go to the shore, the early morning donkeys began to come up,
laden with heavy bags and panniers, just as you and I saw them in Italy, and driven by just
such boys and old men as I remember there, dark-eyed, picturesque, one or two with red caps.
The doors of the little low-browed houses huddled on either side opened here and there, up
and down the path, giving glimpses of pretty, neat interiors; bits of old furniture, the glint
of a copper kettle, a brass jug, or a bit of mended blue china. A gossipy Devonshire cat came
out and begged for caresses, mewing the news of the night--such a chatty creature!--and down
on the beach, we made friends with the oldest man of the village, born in 1816. He was a handsome
old fellow, with pathetic, faded eyes in a tanned, ruddy face; and the queer little harbour
(everything is little at Clovelly, except the inhabitants) with its rustic sort of pier, and
red-sailed fishing boats, looked as if it had been designed entirely as a background for him.
However, it's much more antique even than he--six hundred years old, instead of something short
of a hundred, and made by the famous Carey family. We stopped there talking to the ancient
sailor-man, hearing how the Clovelly fishermen go out with black nets by day in good weather,
and at night with white ones, to "attract the fish." "That is trew, Miss," said he, when I
laughed, thinking it a joke. I love the Devonshire way of saying "true," and other words that
rhyme. Their soft voices are as gentle, as kindly, as the murmur of their own blue sea.

As we mounted the ladder-like path to the top of Clovelly, to go back to Apollo again, the
sun came up out of the sea, where the blue line of water marked the edge of the world, and
spilt floods of gold over it, like a tilted christening cup. We turned and stood still to watch
the day born of dawn; and I feel sure that if we had come to Clovelly to spend several weeks,
I could never have learned to know the place as I had divined it, in this adventure. You seem
to learn more about a flower by inhaling its perfume after rain, don't you think, than by dissecting
it, petal by petal? I fancy there is something like that in getting the feeling and impression
of places at their best, by sudden revelations. Of course, I want to go back to Clovelly, but
not with any of the Mrs. Nortons of the world. I couldn't bear to do that, after being alone
there with Sir Lionel. While one's heart is thrilled by exquisite sights, and the ineffable
thoughts born of them, one knows poor Emily is wondering whether the servants are looking after
things properly at home; and that very knowledge is apt to slam down an iron shutter in one's soul.

It must have been about five o'clock when we took our places in the car again. We had only
eleven miles' run to Bideford, and I wished them twice eleven, for surely they are among the
most beautiful miles in England. No wonder people believe in fairies in this part of the world!
It would be ungrateful if they didn't. As the sun climbed, the brown wood roads were inlaid
with gold in wavy patterns. From our heights, now and again we caught glimpses of Clovelly,
down its deep ravines. The Hobby Drive, which belongs to Clovelly Court, is almost more exquisite
than Buckland Chase, on the way to Dartmoor; if you had been there with me, you would know
I couldn't give it higher praise. And how I wish you had been! How I wish you could see these
English woods! They have such an air of dainty gaiety, very different from Austrian or German
or French forests; and though their elms and oaks and beeches are often giants, they seem dedicated
to the spirit of youth. Their shadows are never black, but only a darker green, or translucent
gray; and part of their charm is a nymph-like frivolousness which comes, I think, from their
ruffly green dessous. Other woods have no dessous. Their ankles are mournfully bare, and their
stockings dark.

In the woods of the Hobby Drive, the bracken was like elfin plumes; each stone, wrapped in
moss, was a lump of silver coated with verdigris; distant cliffs seen between the trees were
cut out of gray-green jade, against a sea of changing opal; and in the high minstrel-galleries
of the latticed beeches a concert of birds was fluting.

Isn't Gallantry Bower a fine name? At first thought it would appear an inappropriate one, for
it's a sheer cliff overlooking the sea on one side and a vast sweep of woodland on the other;
but I can make it seem appropriate, by picturing some wild brave sailor making love to his
sweetheart there, and telling her about the sea, her only rival in his love. No doubt it's
a corruption of some old Cornish name, and I refuse to accept it as a Lover's Leap, though
such a legend has grown up around it. I'm tired of Lover's Leaps.

The whole coast, as we swept round, was a vast golden sickle in the early morning light; and
everything was so beautiful that the door of my heart swung wide open. No arm would have been
strong enough to push it shut, not even Mrs. Senter's. Instead of feeling angry with her, as
we drew near Bideford, I was grateful for the adventure she had (indirectly) given me.

The servants of the Royal Hotel were just waking up, but, of course, being Devonshire people,
instead of being cross they were delightfully good-natured and smiling. I was shown to a pleasant
room, and provided with a hot bath which (with nearly a whole bottle of eau de Cologne extravagantly
emptied into it) made me feel as if I had had a refreshing eight hours' sleep. Already it seemed
as if the night's experience had been a dream, dreamed in that sleep. But I was glad, glad
it was real, and not a dream; something I had lived through, by Sir Lionel's side; a clear
memory to remain like a happy island in the sea of life whatever the future weather.

I dressed slowly, not wanting even "forty winks"; and about eight o'clock Emily knocked at
my door. She had been worried, she said, and not able to sleep, fearing accidents, waking now
and then, to listen for the sound of a car. Poor dear, she wouldn't know Apollo's noble voice
from the threepenny thrum of a motor bicycle! But she was kind and solicitous, though I think
a little shocked to find my vitality in such a state of effervescence. She would have approved
of me if I had been a draggled wreck; but even as it was, she felt it worth while to explain
why she hadn't accompanied her brother. She would have proposed doing so, she assured me, but
her neuralgia had been very trying yesterday, owing to the bad weather and east wind. She feared
to be more trouble than assistance to Sir Lionel, and as he was my guardian, I was sufficiently
chaperoned by him; any expert in etiquette would confirm her in that opinion, she anxiously
added. Nevertheless, when I told her about our stop at Clovelly, she shook her head, and intimated
that perhaps it had better not be referred to in public. I suppose by "in public," she meant
before the Tyndals and Mrs. Senter.

At nine I had the pleasure of meeting the fair Gwendolen again, in one of the most remarkable
rooms you can imagine. Sir Lionel had engaged it in advance, to be our private sitting-room,
but it is as celebrated as it is interesting. Only think, Charles Kingsley wrote "Westward
Ho!" in it, and it is such a quaint and beautiful room, it must have given him inspiration.
You see, the hotel used to be the house of a merchant prince who was a great importer of tobacco
in Queen Elizabeth's days; so it isn't strange that it should have many fine rooms; but the
one where Kingsley wrote is the best. It's sad that the oak panelling should be ruined with
paint and varnish; but nothing short of an earthquake could spoil the ceiling, which is the
famous feature. The merchant prince hired two Italians to come to England and make the wonderful
mouldings by hand. That was long before the days of cement, so the fantastic shapes had to
be fastened to each other and the ceiling with copper wire. When the skilled workmen had finished
their fruits and flowers and leaves, and all the weird fancies which signified the evolution
of Man, the canny merchant prince promptly packed the Italians back again to their native land,
lest other merchant princes should employ them to repeat the marvellous ceiling for their houses!
By this thoughtful act, he secured for himself the one and only specimen of the kind; and to
this day nobody has ever been able to copy it, though the attempt has often been made. The
marvellous part is the startlingly high relief of the mouldings, and the quaintness of the
evolutionary ideas, all those centuries before Darwin.

It was rather disappointing to find out that the beautiful ceiling had nothing to do with Charles
Kingsley's wish to use the room as a study. It was in the time of the present landlord's grandfather,
who owned a quantity of rare old books, records of Bideford's past, and Mr. Kingsley wanted
to refer to them. But their owner valued them too much to lend, even to such a man as Charles
Kingsley. "You must come and write in the room," said he. So Kingsley came and wrote in the
room, and liked it and the books so much that he gave a glowing account of both to Froude,
who presently arrived and used the remarkable room for his study, too.

The books are there still, carefully put away; and a portrait of the good Mayor of Westward
Ho! (the novel, not its namesake town) which was found in the cellar with Vandyck's name faintly
traced on it, hangs opposite the fireplace. The great treasure of the room, though, after the
ceiling, is a letter from Kingsley, framed, protected with glass, and lying on a table.

Mrs. Senter looked almost green, when she beheld me, the picture of health and joy, and saw
on what good terms I was with Sir Lionel. I am certain, dear, that she wants to marry him,
and I can't think she's capable of appreciating such a man, so it must be for his money. A
"sportin', huntin', don't-you-know--what?" sort of fellow would please her better, if all else
were suitable, because she could turn him round her finger; and that neither she nor anybody
else can ever do with Sir Lionel--though he is pathetically chivalrous where women are concerned,
and still more pathetically credulous.

I remember so well your reading "Westward Ho!" aloud to me when I was about ten, and had been
ill. I associate it with the joy of getting well. It made me feel proud of my Devonshire ancestors,
even then, and it makes me more proud now, for I've been reading the book for the second time,
in Kingsley-land. It's like the Bible almost, in Bideford. I should pity the person who dared
pick a flaw in the story, in the hearing of a Bideford man, woman, or child. Why, I believe
even a Bideford dog would understand the insult, and snap!

It's a great, and rather original compliment to name a town in honour of a book; but "Westward
Ho!" the novel, is worthy of a finer namesake. Of course, Rudyard Kipling having been to school
in Westward Ho! makes the place more interesting than it ever could have been of itself, in
spite of its glorious neighbour, the sea. But Bideford is a delightful place. Dad used to say
that no men in the world could beat the men of Devon for courage; and that Bideford men were
amongst the bravest of all, as you and I would have known from "Westward Ho!" even if we'd
never read history. It looks an old-world town, almost unspoiled, even now, with its far-famed
bridge on twenty-four arches, its steeply sloping streets, its quay, and its quaint pink and
green houses by the river. In the Old Ship Tavern "The Brotherhood of the Rose" was founded
(you remember), and Sir Richard Grenville--dear Sir Richard!--had his house where the Castle
Inn stands now. I took a long walk with Sir Lionel and (I am sorry to say) Mrs. Senter, on
the Quay along the riverside; and there are some guns there, which they say were lost from
the Spanish Armada.

While we were walking, who should join us but Dick Burden, back from Scotland! It appears that
he arrived at Tintagel last night, only a little while after Sir Lionel and I had left in the
car. He expected to be earlier, but he took cross-country trains which looked promising on
time-tables, and missed connection. I can't be thankful enough he didn't arrive before we started,
instead of after, for, of course, Sir Lionel would have had to ask him to come with us, and
that would have spoiled everything. There would have been no beautiful "memory island" in my
sea! Do you know, I had almost forgotten Dick for two or three days? He seemed to have gone
out of my life, as if he had never been in, and it was quite a mental shock to meet him on
the quay at Bideford. He didn't seem to be in the picture at all, whereas Sir Lionel is always
in it, whatever or whenever it may be.

We (Sir Lionel and I) asked politely for his mother's health, and he answered, apparently without
thinking, "Mother?--oh, she's all right." Then he evidently remembered that he'd been sent
for because she was ill, and had the grace to look ashamed of his hard-heartedness. He explained
that when he arrived, he found her already better, though nervous, and that she was "practically
cured." But I saw him and his aunt exchange a look. I wonder if it meant that the mother has
any weird sort of disease--contagious, perhaps? I do hope it isn't anything I haven't had.
It would be so awkward to come down with it now; though the sight of Dick with mumps, for instance,
would repay me for a good deal.

Mrs. Senter's room at Bideford adjoined mine, with a (locked) door between; and that night,
for half an hour after I'd gone to bed I heard a murmur of voices, hers and Dick's. They seemed
to be tremendously in earnest about something. Luckily, I couldn't hear a word they said; otherwise
I should have had the bother of stopping my ears; but I couldn't help knowing that there was
a heated argument, Aunt Gwen protesting, Nephew Dick insisting; and, after stress and storm,
a final understanding arrived at which apparently satisfied both.

Such a splendid road it was, going out of Bideford, with views of sea and river, the distant
shore levels indigo, and a fiery golden light, like spilt sherry, on the livid green of the
salt-paled grass. The sails of fishing boats from Instow rose from dark, ruffled waters, white
as lily petals; and out of heavy purple clouds, poured streams of flaming light, as if bags
loaded with gold dust had burst with their own weight. Long sand flats gleamed red as coral
with some low-growing sea plant; and the backs of wind-blown leaves on bush and hedge were
all dull silver, under the shadows of racing clouds, that tore at thousand horse-power speed
over golden meadows. It was an extraordinary, but thoroughly English effect; and isn't it sad,
the grazing cows and sheep we passed never once looked up or cared!

But the people--the charming peasants of Devon--cared. They looked up, and smiled at their
sky, as if it gave them good thoughts; and everyone on foot or in wagon was so polite to us,
flashing such kind looks from beautiful eyes, that we had the sensation of tasting honey. It
kept us busy, returning the bows of the handsome, courteous people, and, altogether, it was
like a royal progress. Poor Apollo isn't used to such treatment, out of Devonshire and Cornwall,
I can tell you! He always does his best to be considerate, yet he is often misunderstood, being
nothing but a motor-car, whom nobody loves! It was a joy to see merry Devonshire children flinging
themselves into our dust, as if it were perfumed spray, and playing that they, too, were motor-cars.
Such a nice change after some counties where we had behaved beautifully without any appreciation,
to feel that for once we gave pleasure to some one, as we passed in and out of their obscure
little lives!

The wind was laden with the scent of honeysuckle, and the sweet, yellow hay, which blew out
of high-piled carts to twine like gold webbing on flowery hedges and on the crimson hollyhocks
that rose like straight, tall flames against whitewashed walls.

Even the droves of sheep we met were more polite than non-Devonshire sheep, for instead of
blocking our way obstinately, keeping just in front so that we could pass on neither side,
they thoughtfully charged into village inns and cottage gardens. But, of course, you can't
expect pink sheep to act like ordinary mutton-hood. These Devonshire creatures look exactly
like a lot of pink wool mats blowing away. Probably they are "pixie led," for Devonshire simply
swarms with pixies. If you are a human being, and happen to put your stockings on wrong side
out, they get power over you at once. But I don't know what the trick is, if you are a sheep.

We ran above a great ravine at Barnstaple, and the scene was so fine, that I gave mental thanks
to the glaciers which, in the ice age, had so tastefully scooped out all this down-country
into graceful curves and majestic cliffs. After leaving the sea behind us we were ringed in,
swallowed up among lovely, gracious hills, which hid the world from us--us from the world.
For miles upon miles, a snake-like road writhed smoothly down the sides of these hills, until
at last, after a wildly exhilarating run we found ourselves in a peaceful green valley. The
Hobby Drive was no more beautiful, and not half so exciting; but by now we were coming to the
Switzerland of England. As we sped on, great downs rolled up behind us, and towered above our
heads like the crests of huge green waves at breaking point. Even the sky suited itself to
the country here, forming bigger, more tumbled clouds than elsewhere; and to my surprise I
saw American goldenrod, such as I used to gather as a child, growing, quite at home, among
yellow ox-eyed daisies.

There was a tremendous hill, wriggling down with wicked twists to Lynton, and in the middle
we met a car that had torn off all its tires. Sir Lionel asked if we could do anything, but
the chauffeur was so disgusted with life that, though he snapped out "No, thank you," his eyes
said "Damn!"

At Lynton we stopped at a hotel like an exaggerated, glorified cottage, with a thatched roof
and a veranda running all round. It stands in a big, perfumed garden, and from the windows
and that quaint stone-paved veranda you can look over the sea to the Welsh coast, whence, at
evening, two blazing eyes of light watch you across the blue water.

Sir Lionel had meant to stay only one night at the Cottage Hotel, but Lynton was beautiful,
with a siren beauty, that would not let us go. Even his resolution wasn't proof against its
witchery. So we stopped two whole days, going "downstairs" (as I called it) to Lynmouth, to
see the old Shelley Cottage and lots of other things. But oh, what a road from Lynton! If a
young fly, when its mother takes it for its first walk down a wall, feels as I did, crawling
to Lynmouth, both brakes on, I pity it. I wasn't exactly frightened, for I never could be,
quite, with Sir Lionel driving, but I was prickly with awe. It was a good thing Emily didn't
go with us. I believe her poor little pin-cushion heart would have burst in sheer fright, and
all the sawdust would have trickled out. I laughed hysterically, when I saw a motor garage
at the bottom. It ought to be a motor hospital, for few cars can get down unscathed, I should
think. Afterward, when we were safely up again, Sir Lionel said that, if he had known what
it was really like he wouldn't have taken Mrs. Senter and me in the car, but would have had
us go in Sir George Newnes's lift. Not that he didn't trust Apollo, but he confessed to being
uncomfortable for us. I will say that Mrs. Senter behaved well, however, and never emitted
one squeak, though her complexion looked when we arrived at Lynmouth as if she had been on
a tossing ship for weeks.

Up at Lynton, the great thing to do, is to walk along the edge of the sea cliff to the Valley
of Rocks (a kind of nature museum for statues and busts of Titans), locked in between Castle
Rock and the Devil's Cheesewring. It is a startlingly magnificent walk, but when you are actually
in the Valley of Rocks, it isn't quite so wonderful as when seen from a distance; the arena
itself is rather like the backyard of the gods, where they threw their broken mead-cups. I
had a queer feeling of having been there before, which I couldn't understand for a minute,
until a scene in "Lorna Doone" flashed back to me. And a young maid in the hotel firmly believes
that many of the fantastic shapes of rock were once people who (according to an old story),
were turned into stone for behaving irreligiously on Sundays.

Yesterday morning we said good-bye to Lynton, and Sir Lionel, Dick, Mrs. Senter, and I walked
to Watersmeet, Emily going along the upper road in the car with Young Nick, whose hand was
well enough to drive. I don't know whether Dad ever talked to you about Watersmeet; but I'm
surprised if he didn't, because not only is it one of the very most beautiful beauty spots
of Devon, but not far beyond, on the way to Exmoor, is Brendon, our name place.

You can guess without my telling, why Watersmeet is called Watersmeet: and it is the most musical
meeting you can imagine; rocks on one side, a wooded hill on the other, and down below, the
singing river. We walked along an exquisite low-lying path from Watersmeet, and all about I
saw the name of Brendon: Brendon village; Brendon forge, and other Brendons. I was so excited
that I forgot the Lethbridge episode, and was on the point of exclaiming to Sir Lionel "How
interesting to come on father's ancestral home!" I wonder what would have happened if I had?
I should have had to try and blunder out of the scrape somehow, with Dick's eyes on me, sparkling
with mischief, and Mrs. Senter critical.

I forgot to tell you that the Tyndals left us at Bideford, having no excuse to cling, even
if they wanted to, because they had "done" Exmoor already; but since the evening when Mrs.
Tyndal tried to pump me about Venice, dear Gwendolen has been restless and suspicious. She
can't suspect the truth, of course, unless Dick has told her, which I'm sure he hasn't (for
his own sake), but she suspects something. She has a common enough mind to spring to some horrid
conclusion, such as my having been secretly in Venice with objectionable people. Perhaps she
thinks me privately married! I'm sure she'd be delighted if that were the truth, because then
Dick and Sir Lionel would both be safe.

As we walked, Dick kept trying to get me far enough away from the others to tell me some news,
which he hurriedly whispered was important. But even if I'd wanted to give him a chance, which
I didn't, fate would have denied it to him.

At Rockford Inn we took to the motor again, finding Emily limp after what she considered appalling
hills; but I'm sure they were nothing to the Lynton-Lynmouth one, as this time Apollo himself
had been sent down in the big lift.

Now we were coming to Doone-land; and I was all eagerness to see it, because of "Lorna Doone,"
and because of things I'd heard from Sir Lionel, as we walked side by side for a few minutes
after Watersmeet. I had supposed that if there were any foundation for the Doone story, it
was as slight as the "fabric of a dream"; but he told me of a pamphlet he had read, "A Short
History of the Original Doones," by a Miss Ida or Audrie Browne, only about eight or nine years
ago. She said it was extraordinary how well the author of "Lorna" had known all the traditions
of her family--for she was one of the Doones; and that there really was a Sir Ensor, a wild
rebellious son of an Earl of Moray, who travelled with his wife to Exmoor, and settled there,
in a rage because the king would give him no redress against his elder brother.

"How does she spell her name of Audrie?" I asked, trying to look more good and innocent than
Eve could possibly have been even in pre-serpentine days.

"A-u-d-r-i-e," he answered, and I trusted that Dick was too far behind to hear what we were
saying. "That was the favourite name for girls in the Doone family," Sir Lionel went on. "Miss
Browne thinks Sir Ensor and his wife must have crossed the Quantocks coming here, and have
taken a fancy to the name of West Quantoxhead's patron saint, Audrie, also spelled that way."

"It's rather a pretty name," I ventured, feeling pink.

"One of the prettiest in the world," said Sir Lionel. I was pleased--though I ought to have
been bowed down with the burden of borrowed guilt.

There was a bad motor road from Oare to the gateway of the moor, but Apollo didn't mind, though
I think he was glad to stop outside Malmsmead Farm, where we had lunch. I suppose you can't
expect such modern creatures as motors and chauffeurs, especially Bengali ones, to appreciate
farmhouses seven hundred years old! I loved the place, though, and so did Sir Lionel. Nothing
ever tasted better than the rosy ham, the crisp cottage bread, the thick cream, and wild honey
the farm people gave us. And the honey smelt like the moor, which has just as individual and
haunting a fragrance as Dartmoor, though different.

After lunch I wanted to see the Doone Valley, and the ruins of the Doone houses (which, by
the way, my namesake Miss Browne says were not the Doone houses, but only the huts where the
brigand-band used to keep stolen cattle), so Sir Lionel said I must have a pony. I wasn't tired,
though he thought I ought to be, after our walk; but the idea of riding a rough Exmoor pony
was great fun, and I didn't object. Sir Lionel asked Mrs. Senter (who had been making fun of
the Doone story at lunch) rather coolly if she would care to go, too; and to his evident surprise,
though not at all to mine, she instantly said she would.

They have several ponies at the farm, and Sir Lionel hired two, he and Dick meaning to walk,
and Emily intending to stop in the farm sitting room nodding over the visitors' book, full
of interesting names, no doubt.

No sooner had our dear, roughly fringed little beasts been saddled, and we swung on to their
backs, than there arose a great hue and cry in the farmyard. The stag hunt was passing!

Such an excitement you never saw. Nobody would have thought the same thing had happened many
times a year, for generations. The big, good-natured farmer raced about, waving his arms, and
adjuring us to "Coom on!" The postman darted by on his bicycle, forgetful of letters, thinking
only of the stag; pretty girls from the neighbouring Badgeworthy Farm, and Lorna Doone Farm
tore up a hill, laughing and screaming. "They'm found! They'm found!" yelled the farm hands.
Everybody shouted. Everybody ran, or at least danced up and down; and wilder than all was the
joy of our Exmoor ponies, Mrs. Senter's and mine.

They didn't intend to let the hunt go by without them, the stanch little sporting beasts! We
hadn't the least idea what they meant to do, or perhaps--just perhaps!--we might have stopped
them; but before Mrs. Senter and I knew what was happening to us, off we dashed on pony-back
after the hunt.

I laughed so much I could hardly keep my seat, but I did somehow, though not very gracefully,
and in about five minutes Sir Lionel's long legs had enabled him to catch my little monster,
which he grabbed by the reins and stopped, before we'd got mixed up with the staghounds. Dick
was slower about rescuing his aunt, because his legs are shorter than Sir Lionel's; and her
pony had not the pleasant disposition of mine. Dick vowed afterward that it spit at him.

After reading "Lorna" the Doone Valley looked rather too gentle, with its grassy slopes, to
be satisfactory to my brigand-whetted mind; and the ruins of the Doone houses would have been
disappointing, too, if it hadn't been for Miss Audrie Browne's tale of the distant dwellings,
in the Weir Water Valley; but I liked hearing that all the hills have names of their own, and
that you can be sure you are not going to fall into a treacherous bog, if only you see a sprig
of purple heather--a good, honest plant, which hates anything secret. Our ponies didn't need
the heather signal, though; they shied away from bogs as if by instinct, they knew the moor
so well. If we had stumbled into a pitfall, our only hope would have been to lie quite flat,
and crawl along the surface with the same motion that you make in swimming.

It was late afternoon by the time we had seen all that the ponies wanted us to see of the Doone
Valley, and then our way led us back to Lynmouth, by the appalling Countisbury Hill; on to
Parracombe, Blackmore Gate, Challacombe, romantic little Simonsbath (sacred to the memory of
Sigmund the dragon-slayer, and two outlaws, of whom Tom Faggus, of the "Strawberry horse,"
was one), and pretty, historic Exford, and so to Dunster. A beautiful road it was to the eye,
but not always to the tire, and half the hills of England seemed to have lined up in a procession.
But Apollo smiled in his bonnet at them all, and appeared rather pleased than otherwise to
show what he could do.

When we came into Dunster it was almost dark--just the beautiful hour when the air seems to
have turned blue, a deep, clear azure; and of all the quaintly picturesque places we have seen,
I know at first glimpse that Dunster would turn out to be the best. Some towns, like some people,
introduce themselves to you in a friendly, charming way, with no chill reserve, as if they
were sure you deserved to see their best side. It's like that with Dunster, anyhow when you
arrive in a motor, and the first thing you see is the ancient Yarn Market, wooden, octagonal,
perfect. Then before you have recovered from the effect of that, and the general unspoiledness
of everything, you come to the stone porch of the Luttrell Arms Inn; old and grim, with openings
for crossbows with which I suppose the Abbots of Cleve must have had to defend themselves,
because the house once belonged to them.

If you could see no other town but Dunster, it would be worth while coming across seas to England.
But I suppose I've said that about other places, haven't I? Well, I can't help it if I have.
Dunster is absolutely perfect--not one false note struck in the quaint music of its antiquity.

Our sitting room was the Abbot's refectory, splendid with black oak beams, and a noble ceiling.
Its diamond-paned windows look into a wonderful courtyard, where you expect to see monks walking,
or perhaps cavaliers; and on the hill above the garden, there are earthworks thrown up by Oliver
Cromwell's army during the siege of Dunster Castle--the "Alnwick of the West." To-morrow, we
are to be allowed, as a special favour, to see the inside of the Castle which towers up so
grandly against the sky. It isn't open to the public; but Sir Lionel knows some relatives of
the owners, so we are to be shown round.

"To-morrow," I say. But if I don't stop at once, and go to bed, it will be "to-day."

Ever your

Audrie.

XXV

FROM SIR LIONEL PENDRAGON TO COLONEL PATRICK O'HAGAN

Swan Hotel, Wells, Aug. 20th

My Dear Pat: What a good fellow you are! Your letter, just forwarded here, has been like for
me a draught from the "cup which cheers but not----" No, on second thoughts I can't go on with
the quotation "but not inebriates." I rather think the cup has inebriated me a little. Anyhow,
it has made me a bit conceited. I say to myself, "Well, if this is his opinion of me, why not
believe there's something in it, and do as other men have done before me? He ought to be a
judge of men, and know enough of women to have some idea of the sort of person it would be
possible for one of them to love." That is the state of mind to which you have brought me,
with a little ink and a little paper, and plenty of good intentions. It would take about a
magnum of champagne to exhilarate some men as your praise and your advice have exhilarated me.

When I wrote you last, I was in the dumps. It was a dull world, and all the tigers I had ever
shot were mounted on sackcloth, or stuffed with ashes. Sounds disgusting, doesn't it? But suddenly,
the sun broke out, and dulness and tigers fled together. I suppose I must always have been
a creature of moods, and didn't know it; for all it took to change gray Purgatorio to blue
Paradiso was a few words from a girl. She said she didn't love Dick, and would as soon marry
my chauffeur--or words to that effect. Explained everything--or, if she didn't explain, looked
at me, and I thought she had explained. I forget now whether she did explain or not, rationally
and satisfactorily, but it doesn't matter. There is no one like her, and I have reached a stage
of idiocy concerning her which I would blush to describe. I see now that the feeling which
a very young man, hardly out of boyhood, dignified with the name of love, is merely a kind
of foundation that, when fallen into picturesque ruin, makes a good firm flooring of experience
to build second, or real, love, upon. I don't know whether that's well or badly said, but it
expresses my state of mind.

If only this second true love of mine were not the daughter of the first and false!

Even now, when I frankly acknowledge to myself that she can make the light of the world for
me, there are black moments when I distrust her--distrust my impressions of her; and hate myself
for doing both. I used to believe so firmly in heredity that I can't throw aside my old theories
in a moment, even for her sake. How comes Ellaline de Nesville's and Fred Lethbridge's daughter
to be what this girl seems? That's what I ask myself; but there again your letter helps. You
remind me that "our parents are not our only ancestors."

But enough of all this rhapsodizing and doubting. There's nothing definite to tell you, except
that she has said she doesn't care for Dick Burden, and that, generally speaking, if appearances
are against her, I must kindly not judge by them.

"Give her the benefit of the doubt as long as you can," you say. But, thank heaven I can do
more. I give her the benefit of not doubting at all, except in those black moments I have confessed
to you.

We have had some good road adventures together, and she has proved herself a thorough sportswoman,
as well as a jewel of a companion; but, of course, I haven't had her often to myself. Mrs.
Senter and Dick Burden are still of the party, and say nothing about future plans, though there
was a vague understanding when they first came that they were asked for a fortnight. They seem
to be enjoying themselves, so I suppose I ought to be pleased; and Mrs. Senter is agreeable
to everybody, though sometimes it has occurred to me that she and Ellaline don't hit it off
invariably. Still, I may be mistaken. She praises Ellaline, and seems anxious to throw her
into Dick's society, which presumably she wouldn't do if she didn't like the girl.

Dick did run up to Scotland to see his mother for a few days, and I thought, as Mrs. Burden
sent for him on account of her health, he might have to stay on. But no such luck. He was back
almost indecently soon--pounced down upon us at Bideford, just in time, perhaps, to prevent
my taking your advice before I got it.

The fact is, there was a queer misunderstanding with which I won't bore you, but by which Ellaline
was left behind at Tintagel, and I went back alone to fetch her, with the car. She was adorable,
even unusually adorable, and I loved her horribly. Yes, that's the only word for it, because
it hurt; it hurt so much that next day I felt I couldn't go on bearing the pain, and that I
should have to find a chance to tell her. I was pretty sure she would think me a middle-aged
and several other kinds of a fool, even though she were polite in words; nevertheless, I might
have run the risk, even unspurred by your letter, if Dick hadn't come back looking extremely
young and attractively impertinent. She mayn't care a rap for him; she says she doesn't, so
I suppose she knows her own mind; still, the contrast between our years is in his favour, and
with him under my nose as well as continuously underfoot, I see myself as (I fear) others see
me. Yet I may not be able to keep my head if a chance should come. And if I lose it--my head,
I mean--that's the time to take your advice.

We have been seeing some fine country of late; Dunster was one of the best bits, also grand
old Luttrell Castle, which, by the way, is Hardy's Stancy Castle in "The Laodicean." There
are some rare old buildings in Dunster which reek history. The church has a noble rood screen;
and the Yarn Market is unique in England; so is the queer old "Nunnery," so-called, and the
ancient inn where we stayed.

Cleve Abbey is only a few miles away, and I was surprised at the magnificence of the ruin,
which was used as a farmhouse for years, and would be thus degraded still if it weren't for
Mr. Luttrell, the owner of Dunster Castle, who has bought and restored it. Cistercian, and
as old as the tenth century, with a gatehouse of Richard the Second's day; bits of exquisite
encaustic tiling from the demolished church, preserved religiously under glass; and a refectory
roof to enchant artists and archæologists--beautiful hammer-beams and carved angels of Spanish
walnut wood, fifteenth century, I think; and some shadowy ghosts of frescoes.

Ellaline was enchanted with the old custodian, who talked much about "heart of oak," and when
she ventured to remark that he "looked as if he were made of it," she and the old fellow himself
both blushed amusingly.

We came on through pretty, respectable-looking Williton, where lived Reginald Fitz Urse who
helped murder St. Thomas of Canterbury, and where everything is extraordinarily ancient except
the motor garage.

By this we were among the Quantock Hills; and the differences between Devonshire and Somerset
scenery were beginning to be very marked. It's difficult to define such differences; but they're
visible in every feature; the shape of the downs; the trees, standing up tall and isolated
in "Zummerzet," like landmarks; even the conformation of roads--which, by the way, are extremely
good in these regions, a pleasant change for the car after some of her wild hill-climbing and
tobogganning feats in North Devon.

Do you remember how, when we were boys, we discussed favourite names, and placed Audrey high
in the list among those of women? Here, in the Quantock Hills, they spell it "Audrie," for
the saint who patronizes West Quantoxhead; and I have learned that it was the name which the
outlawed Doone tribe best loved to give their girl children. I think I used to say I should
like to marry a girl named Audrey, but never heard of such a person in real life, until Ellaline
informed me, on seeing St. Audrie's, that it's the name of her most intimate friend. I responded
by confessing my boyish resolve, and to amuse myself, asked if she would some day introduce
me to her friend. "Not for the world!" said she, and blushed. I wish I could make myself believe
her jealous. You would probably encourage me to think it!

Wordsworth loved the pleasant region of the Quantock hills, you know, and wrote some charming
poems while he and Coleridge lived at Nether Stowey and Alforden; but just to see, in passing,
Nether Stowey looks unattractive; and as for Bridgewater, not much farther on (where a red
road has turned pink, then pale, then white with chalk), it is as commercial to look at as
it is historical to read of. When a boy, in bloodthirsty moods, I used to pore over that history;
read how Judge Jeffreys lodged at Bridgewater during the Bloody Assizes (the house is gone
now, washed away like an old blood stain); how the moor between Weston and Bridgewater (in
these days lined with motors) was lined with Feversham's gibbets after Sedgemoor. Doesn't Macaulay
refer to that as "the last fight deserving the name of battle, fought on English soil"? Then
there was the story of "Swayne's Jumps," which one connected with Bridgewater. He made his
famous escape in Toxley Wood, close by, and to this day the place is marked with three stones.
That sort of thing rushes you back in a minute over long distances in time, doesn't it?--as
motors rush you forward in a minute over long distances of space.

So to Glastonbury, by way of Poland Hill, looking down over the Sedgemoor plain, Chedzoy Church,
on whose southern buttress the battle axes were sharpened, and Weston Zoyland, with its Dutch-sounding
name, and Dutch-looking dykes.

I never saw Glastonbury until now, and I'm not sure that, having seen it, I shan't be obliged
to hook it on top of Winchester, on my bump of reverence. Not that one can compare its ruined
grandeur with well-preserved Winchester, the comparison lies in the oldness and the early beginnings
of religion. I believe Glastonbury is the one religious institution in which Briton, Saxon,
and Norman all share and share alike; so the place seems to bind our race to a race supplanted.
St. Dunstan is the "great man" of the place, because he it was who restored the monastery after
Danish wars; but he is a modern celebrity beside Joseph of Arimathea, the founder, who came
with eleven companions to bring the Holy Word to Britain. It was the Archangel Gabriel who
bade him found a church in honour of the Virgin; and it was a real inspiration of the archangel's;
for what one can see of the chapel of St. Joseph is absolutely perfect--a gem of beauty.

We came to Glastonbury in the afternoon, having lunched at a nice old coaching house in Bridgewater,
and after pausing for a look at the Abbot's kitchen, I drove straight to the George, which
I had heard of as being the Pilgrim's Inn of ancient times, and the best bit of domestic architecture
in the town. The idea was to have tea there--an indulgence for which Emily clamoured, being
half choked with chalky dust; but the house was so singularly beautiful and interesting that
it seemed a crime not to sleep in it. The front is a gorgeous mass of carved panelling; in
the middle rises a four-centred gateway, and on the left is a marvel of a bow window, with
a bay for every story. We went up a newel stairway to look at rooms, and one in which Henry
VIII. slept a night fell to my share--not because I was selfishly ready to take the best, however,
for there were several others more curious, if not more interesting.

Our quarters for the night selected, we went out sight-seeing, on foot, first taking the Abbey
and Chapel of the Blessed Virgin, corruptly known as St. Joseph's. It's a good thing, Pat,
that you didn't get your youthful way, and annex Emily, because you have, or had, a "strong
weakness" for ruins, and she doesn't appreciate them in any form. The difference between her
expression and Ellaline's while gazing at what is left of Glastonbury's glory was a study.
Emily's bored, yet conscientiously desiring to be interested; the girl's rapt, radiant. And,
indeed, these remnants of beauty are pathetically fair enough to draw tears to such young eyes
as hers. They are even more majestic in ruin than they could have been in noblest prime, I
think, because those broken arches have the splendour of classic tragedy. They are like a poem
of which a few immortal lines are lost.

In the warm light of the August afternoon the old stones, pillars, and arches of Glastonbury
Abbey seemed to be carved in stained ivory, a bas relief on lapis lazuli. We lingered until
our pretty Mrs. Senter got the look in her eyes of one who has stood too long in high-heeled
boots, and Emily asked plaintively whether we were not going to see the Glastonbury Thorn.
It appeared that she had promised to write her tame parson about it, and send him a sprig for
planting; and she was much disappointed when she heard that the "original thorn," Joseph of
Arimathea's blossoming staff, had been destroyed centuries ago on Weary-All Hill, where the
saintly band rested on the way to Glastonbury. One trunk of the famous tree was hewed down
by a Puritan in Elizabeth's day (I'm happy to tell you he lost a leg and an eye in the act),
while the second and only remaining one was destroyed by a "military saint" in the great rebellion.
"What disagreeable things saints have done!" exclaimed Ellaline, which shocked Emily. "There
have been very few military ones, anyhow," my sister returned, mildly, with a slightly reproachful
glance at me, aimed at my spiritual failures. I cheered her up by promising that I would get
her a sprig of thorn at Wells, and telling her how all the transplanted slips have the habit
of blossoming on Christmas Day, old style--January 6th, isn't it?

Our next "sight" was the museum in the Market Place; and you may take my word for it, Pat,
there's nothing much more interesting to be found the world over, if you're interested in antiquities,
as you and I are. There's the Alfred jewel, which, of course, the women liked best; and next
in their estimation came the bronze mirrors, the queer pins and big needles, the rouge pots
and the hair curlers (which Emily gravely pronounced to be curiously like Hinde's) of the Celtic
beauties who lived before the visits of those clever commercial travellers, the Phoenicians.
These relics were taken from the prehistoric village at Godnet Marsh, discovered only about
sixteen years ago, and they were found with others far more important; for instance, a big,
clumsy canoe of black oak, which was soft as soap when it first came up out of its hiding-place
in the thick peat bog, but was hardened afterward by various scientific tricks. I confess to
more interest in the dice boxes and dice, some of which the sly old Celtic foxes had loaded.
Cheating isn't precisely a modern device, it seems!

After the museum, I took the party to a jeweller's I'd heard of, and bought some copies of
the sacred treasures: a replica of the Alfred jewel; a silver bowl, exactly imitating a bronze
one from the lake village--probably of Greek manufacture, brought over by Phoenicians--and
other quaint and interesting things. Ellaline is to have the jewel; the silver bowl is to be
a "sop" to Mrs. Senter; and for Emily is a tiny model oven, such as the Phoenicians taught
the Celts to make and Cornish cottagers bake their bread in to this day.

There was the old Red Lion Inn to see, too, where Abbot Whiting lay the night before his execution,
which was a murder; and the Women's Almshouses, and a dozen other things which tourists are
expected to see besides many dozen which they are not; and it is for the latter that Ellaline
and I have a predilection. She and I are also fond of believing any story which is interesting,
therefore we are both invaluable victims to the custodians of museums and other show places.
The nice old fellow in the Glastonbury museum was delighted with our faith, which would not
only have moved mountains, but transported to such mountains any historic celebrity necessary
to impress the picture. We believed in the burying of the original Chalice, from which to this
hour flows a pure spring, the Holy, or Blood Spring. We believe that St. Patrick was born,
and died on the Isle of Avalon; and more firmly than all, that both Arthur and Guinevere were
buried under St. Mary's (or St. Joseph's) Chapel. Why, didn't the custodian point out to us,
in the picture of an ancient plan of the chapel, the actual spot where their bodies lay? What
could we ask more than that?

Does that come back to you, from Arthur's speech to Bedévere? but he died of the "grievous
wound" after all; and the custodian goes so far as to assert, solemnly, that when the coffins
were opened in the days of Henry II. the bodies of the king and queen were "very beautiful
to see, for a moment, untouched by time; but that in a second, as the people looked, their
dust crumbled away, all except the splendid golden hair of Guinevere, which remained to tell
of her glory, for many a long year, until it was stolen, and disappeared forever."

That is a good story, anyhow, and adds to the curious, almost magical enchantment of Glastonbury.
Ellaline says that the very name of Glastonbury will after this ring in her ears like the sound
of fairy bells, chiming over the lost lake that ringed the Isle of Avalon. You know, I dare
say, that Glastonbury is supposed to have its derivation from British "Ynyswytryn," "Inis vitrea,"
the "Island of Glass," because the water surrounding it was blue and clear as crystal. So many
golden apples grew in the island orchards, that it became also the Isle of Avalon, from "Avalla"
an apple.

Even now, the queer conical, isolated hills of the neighbourhood are called islands, and it
is easy to picture Glastonbury as an isle rising among lesser ones out of a bright, azure estuary
stretching away and away to the Bristol Channel. The Saxon king, Edgar, whose royal castle
has given the name to the town of Edgarly, must have had a fine view in his day. And now you
have only to go up Tor Hill (a landmark for miles round, with its tower of St. Michael on top
like the watch-dog of a dead king) to see Wells Cathedral to the north, the blue Mendips east
and west, and cutting the range, a mysterious break, like a door, which means the wild pass
of Cheddar; far in the west, a gleam of the Bristol Channel; south, the Polden Hills, the Dorset
heights beyond, and the Quantocks overtopped by the peak of Dunkery Beacon. I think one would
have to go far to see more of England in one sweep of the eye. Indeed, foreigners might come,
make a hasty ascent of Tor Hill, and take the next boat back to their own country, telling
their friends not untruthfully that they had "seen England."

At night, in the room of Henry VIII., I dreamed I saw Anne Boleyn, with Ellaline's face, which
smiled at me, the lips saying: "I'll forgive you, if you'll forgive me." I hope that's a good omen?

We gave ourselves twenty-four hours in Glastonbury and the neighbourhood, running out to the
prehistoric village at Godney Marsh, to see the excavations, and to Meare (by the by, the very
causeway over which our motor spun was built of stones from the Abbey!) then on, toward evening,
to Wells. There have been surprisingly blue evenings lately, to which Ellaline has drawn my
attention; and her simile on the way to Wells, that we seemed to be driving through a pelting
rain of violets, I thought rather pretty. What shall I do, I wonder, if I have to part with
her--give her to some other man, perhaps? It hardly bears thinking of. And yet it may easily
happen. It seems to me that every man who sees her must want her; and the feeling doesn't make
for peace or comfort. I suppose I might be different, and less the brute, if I hadn't lived
so long in the East, growing used to Eastern customs; but as it is, when I see some man's eyes
light upon her face and rest there in surprised admiration, I want to snatch her up, wrap her
in a veil, and run off with her in my arms. Beastly, isn't it? I have no such feeling, however,
in connection with Mrs. Senter, although she is very striking, and excites a good deal of attention
wherever we go.

I haven't seen Emily so happy since we have been motoring as she is at Wells, and it seems
almost criminal to tear her away, though I fear I shall have to do so to-morrow. She says that,
except at home, she has never felt such "an air of religious calm" as at Wells; and there's
something in the feeling which I can understand, though I must admit I don't go about the world
searching for religious calm.

Certainly one can't imagine a crime being committed at Wells, and a wicked thought would be
rather wickeder here than elsewhere. Not that the Cathedral is to me alluringly beautiful (I
believe it ranks high, and is even exalted as the "best secular church" to be found the world
over, the west front being glorified as a masterpiece beyond all others in England); at first
sight it vaguely disappointed me. I am no expert judge of architecture, and don't pretend to
be; still, I dare to have my likes and dislikes; and it was not until I'd walked round the
cathedral many times, stood and stared at it, and gone up heights to survey it from different
points of view, that I began to warm toward it mightily. Now, I find it eminently noble, yet
not so lovable as some which my memory cherishes, some not perhaps as architecturally or artistically
perfect. But you know what individuality buildings have, especially those which are vast and
dominating; and Wells is unique. As the common people say, it "wants knowing."

Emily, usually sparing of adjectives, pronounces the Lady Chapel "a dream," and I don't think
she exaggerates; but for myself, the things least forgettable in the Cathedral will be the
Chapter House Stairs and the beautiful fourteenth century glass. The ascent of the staircase
is an exquisite experience, and, as Ellaline cried out in her joy, "it must be like going up
a snow mountain by moonlight." The old clock in the transept, too, holds one hypnotized, waiting
always to see what will happen next. Peter Lightfoot, the Glastonbury monk, who made it in
the fourteenth century, must have had a lively imagination, and have loved excitement--"something
doing," as Americans say. Ellaline and I are overcome with sympathy for one of four desperately
fighting knights who never gets the colours. Hard luck to work like that for hundreds of years,
and never succeed!

At last Emily has seen the Glastonbury Thorn, and obtained her slip, as an exceptional favour.
She longs for Christmas to come, to know if it will bloom, as it does regularly every year
in the gardens of the Bishop's palace.

Until now I couldn't have imagined envying a bishop, but to live in the palace at Wells, and
own the palace gardens for life, would be worth a few sacrifices. I should think there could
have been never a more poetical or charming garden on earth--not excepting Eden or a few Indian
gardens I have admired. It is perfect; as Ellaline says, even pluperfect, in its contrast with
the gray ruins, and the mellow, ancient house. There is an embattled wall, which makes a terrace
walk, above the fair lawns and jewelled flower beds, and from the top as you walk, the hills
girdling the old city go waving in gradations of blue to an opal horizon. There's an old Well
House in the garden, which is one of its chief ornaments, and has adorned it since the fifteenth
century. Bishop Beckington--the Beckington of the punning rebus (Beacon and Tun) built it to
supply water to the city. But there were plenty of other springs, always--seven famous ones--which
suggested the name, Wells; and had they not existed, perhaps King Ina (who flourished in the
eighth century, and was mixed up in Glastonbury history) would not have founded a cathedral
here. Blessed be the seven wells, then, for without them one of the fairest places in England
might never have existed.

I had heard of the celebrated swans, and as I knew she would like them, I determined to pay
the birds a morning call (the day after we arrived) with Ellaline. From any obtrusion of Emily's
I felt safe, for her mind whirls here with old oak carvings, Flaxman sculptures, ancient vestments,
carven tombs, and, above all, choral services. Indeed, Emily is never at her best except in
a cathedral; and I knew that swans would not be ecclesiastic enough to please her. But of Mrs.
Senter and Dick I had to be more wary; for the lady, no doubt because she is my guest, feels
it polite to give me a good deal of her society; and Dick naturally considers that Ellaline's
time is wasted on me, especially when he isn't by to alleviate the boredom.

My one chance was to lure the girl out early, for neither Mrs. Senter nor Burden loves the
first morning hours. With all the guilty tremors of one who cooks an intrigue, I sent a note
to Ellaline's room, just after she had gone to bed, asking if she were "sporting enough" to
come for a walk at seven-thirty. I thought that way of putting the invitation would fetch her,
and it did; but perhaps a card I enclosed had something to do with her prompt acceptance. I
printed, in my best imitation of engraved text, "Mr. and Mrs. Swan and the Misses Cygnet, At
Home, In the Moat, Bishop's Palace. Ring for Refreshments. R.S.V.P."

Five minutes later came down a scrap of paper (all she had, no doubt) with a little pencil
scrawl, saying that Miss Lethbridge was delighted to accept Mr. and Mrs. Swan's kind invitation
for seven-thirty, and thanked Sir Lionel Pendragon for obtaining it. I have put this away with
my treasures, of course.

I was at the place appointed before the time, and she didn't keep me waiting. As a matter of
fact, she's always extraordinarily prompt. Modern school training, I suppose, as Ellaline the
First was never known to be in time for anything. And the swans were worth getting up for.
They are magnificent creatures; but, unlike many professional beauties, they're as clever as
they are handsome. For generations they and their ancestors have been trained to ring a bell
when they breakfast; and to see the whole family, mother, babies, and cousins, breasting the
clear, lilied water, and waiting in a dignified, not too eager, row while father pulls a bell
in the old palace wall, tweaking the string impatiently with his beak, is better than any theatrical
performance of this season in London.

Ellaline was entranced, and would have the play played over and over again by the swan actors
and the stage manageress, a kindly and polite woman who conducted the entertainment. When we
were both ashamed to beg for more, Ellaline suggested a walk round the town, which is of an
unspoiled beauty, and you can guess whether or no I was glad to be her guide. I'm certain I
should have proposed before breakfast (I wonder if any other man was ever in love enough for
that?) if Dick Burden and his aunt hadn't turned a corner at the critical moment. But perhaps
it was just as well. In spite of what you say, I am certain she would have refused me.

Nevertheless, for your encouragement, my dear old Pat, I am

Yours ever gratefully,

Pen.

XXVI

MRS. SENTER TO HER SISTER, MRS. BURDEN

Empire Hotel, Bath, August Without End, Amen!

My Dear Sis: Talk about a land where it is always afternoon! Seems to me it will never stop
being August. I'm dead sick of motoring in present company, and so furious with Sir Lionel
that the only revenge I can think of is to marry him. Would that I could say, "Vengeance is
mine"; but it's still a bird in the bush, I regret to say, while in my hand is nothing save
the salt which I'm trying to sprinkle on its tail.

Curious feeling one has on a motor tour. I have the sensation of being detached from my own
past (good thing that, for some ladies of our acquaintance!) like a hook that's come out of
its eye. The hook, however, is quite ready to fit into any new eye that happens to be handy,
or dig out any eye that happens to be in the way. And that brings me back to Mademoiselle Lethbridge.
It really can't be good for one's liver to dislike anyone as much as I have grown to dislike
that girl; but unfortunately I can't afford to despise her. She is clever; almost too clever,
for cherished, protected, schoolgirl nineteen. Would that I could find a screw loose in her
history! Wouldn't I make it rattle? I thought I had got hold of one, through the Tyndals, but
Sir Lionel wouldn't listen to the rattling, wouldn't let it rattle for an instant. It is only
the change of climate and English food that prevents his manners from being (as no doubt they
were in Eastern climes) those of a Bashaw; and if he were one's husband he couldn't be more
disagreeable than he is at times.

Not that he means to be disagreeable. If he did, one would know how to take him--or not to
take him. But it is his polite indifference to which I object. I'm not used to it in men. It's
like a brick wall you're dying to kick against, only it's no use. I don't take all the trouble
I do with my hair and complexion not to be looked at, I assure you. Why, my waist might just
as well be two inches bigger for all he notices! It is too trying. And then, to see the way
he looks at that girl, who doesn't know enough about physical economy to make powder stick
on her nose when it rains!

It does me good to talk to you like this. Dick isn't sympathetic, because he happens to be
in love with the young female, and though he occasionally abuses her himself, on the spur of
a snub, he won't let me do it.

Don't think, however, that I give up hope. By no means. I have heaps of tricks up my sleeve,
small and fashionable as it is, and lots of strings to my bow. But I just wish one was a "bowstring"
and round a girl's neck. I'd give a tiny, tiny pull. In fact, I did give one yesterday--one
which I've been wanting to give ever since I received your letter. But actually, till yesterday,
I never got a chance. I "made" several, but they always went to bits, like a child's house
of cards. Poor me! That is part of the creature's cleverness. I think she knew by instinct
that I had something nasty to say, and she kept dodging about, preventing me from laying hands
(I won't say claws) on her.

Dick, too, she has kept in the same position, waiting for an opportunity to pounce. Indeed,
she has handled us both surprisingly well, considering her age and bringing up. I have a certain
respect for her. But one often respects people one dislikes, doesn't one? At least, really
nice, amusing people of my type do.

Exactly what Dick wants to do with his white mouse when he has pounced on it I have no means
of knowing, for since a slight misunderstanding, not to say row, which we had on the night
of his return from Scotland and you, a certain reserve has fallen between us, like a stage
curtain. He is on the stage side; I am in the position of audience. But I was never in doubt
for a moment as to what would follow my pounce, provided the mouse didn't prove too strong
for me--and I don't think it has. My pretty little ladylike bite must have left a mark on the
velvet fur.

I dare say I have excited your curiosity by referring to a "row" with Dick, and lest you neglect
my interests in the rest of the letter, to brood upon his, I'd better pander at once to your
maternal anxiety.

He wouldn't have confessed to me anything you had told him about Miss Lethbridge's antecedents,
for the very good reason that he hangs onto her with the grip of a bulldog on a marrow-bone;
but as I was armed with your letter (I found it waiting for me at Bideford) containing full
information, he saw it was no use to keep anything back.

If I had had the letter a little earlier I might not have racked my valuable brain as violently
as I did to give him a chance alone with Ellaline. I arranged for him to find her deserted
at King Arthur's Castle, like Mariana in her moated grange; but on reading what you had to
say, I admit I had qualms as to the wisdom of my policy where Dick's future was concerned.
However, even then I trusted to myself to save him if it came to the worst; and it might have
been valuable for my future if things had happened "according to schedule"--just because Sir
Lionel is such a Bashaw. He would never again have felt the same to the girl if she had schemed
to be left behind in order to meet Dick. However--I can control most men, and many women, but
I can't control trains; and it was through their missing connections that Dick missed rescuing
his ladylove. As it has turned out, no harm has been done to him. I wish I could be as sure
of myself; for Sir Lionel, I fancy, hasn't been quite as nice since. He can't guess what I
had to do with the affair; but--I suppose even men have instinct, inferior to ours though it be.

Dick came to my room at Bideford, and was cross because things had gone wrong; I was cross
because he was cross (I hate injustice in anyone but myself), and then he was crosser because
I told him it would never do for him to marry the girl, knowing what we now know. He said he
would have her, and hang everybody else, especially Sir Lionel; I argued that hanging people
would do no good; and he then said that it would be all right anyhow about the dot, as he knew
a way of getting something decent out of Sir Lionel for her. What he knew he firmly refused
to divulge, and when I asked if he'd told you, he replied that he jolly well hadn't. Also he
accused me of "stinginess," in not wanting "Pendragon to part," and wishing to keep the "whole
hog" for myself; his delicate way of expressing my desire to retain the means of purchasing
tiaras, etc., suitable to my rank, in case I should become the future Lady Pendragon.

At this point in the conversation our family relations were somewhat strained, but before they
reached snapping point, with my accustomed tact (partly learned from you) I smoothed my nephew
down, regardless of my own injured feelings. Nothing could be better for me than that he should
be engaged to Miss Lethbridge, though, of course, nothing could be worse for us all than that
he should marry her. Trust me, I say again, as I have said before, to prevent that. I assure
you, I can easily do it. Meanwhile, I encourage Dick to believe that he has softened my hard
heart; and though he doesn't believe in me absolutely, or tell me all the workings of his mind,
I'm certain you need have no anxiety about your son and heir.

Now to my own affairs, which, after Dick's future and your neuralgia, I flatter myself are
dear to you.

You've often remarked that I'm nothing if not dramatic, and perhaps when I tell you what I
did yesterday you will think I've proved it for the hundredth--or is it the thousandth?--time.

We left Wells (which depressed me as all cathedral towns do, because everybody, and even every
building, seems so unco guid) to run through the Cheddar ravine, which, I fancy, though I don't
know and care less, is among the Mendip Hills. I woke up with a headache, not having slept
on account of a million church clocks and bells which were deadly busy all night, and I felt
I should be no better until I'd had it out with the enemy.

Sir Lionel, as you know, can be a pleasant companion when he chooses, and he's so good-looking
in his soldier way that I can't help admiring him when I'm not hating him, but it is a strain
on the nerves, headache or no headache, sitting next a man and trying every minute to make
him like you better than he does the woman he wants to be with, who is sitting behind him.
It means that you must be amusing and witty and interested in everything he says. But how can
you be witty when the only thing you want to say is "devil and damn," of which he would violently
disapprove from a lady's lips (or pen)? And how can you be interested in all he says when he
discourses about mouldy old saints, and legends, and history, and things over and done with
long ago, like that? What do I care if St. Dunstan--of whom I heard too much at Glastonbury--saved
King Edmund, hunting in the Mendips, from falling over Cheddar Cliff, horse and man? Why, I
don't even know who Edmund was, or when he happened. Celtic relics, found in caves, are less
than nothing to me, and Roman coins are a mere aggravation when one is bothered how to get
current coin of the realm. Botany bores me, too, though I have been studying it, together with
many other dull things which, unfortunately for me, Sir Lionel likes.

Well, we went up the Mendip Hills by way of an obscure little village called Priddy, which
seemed important to Sir L. because they found some lead pigs in a mine there marked Imp. Vespasianus,
and a few old Roman dice, and brooches like safety-pins. It would be much more to the point
if he would take an interest in what I wear, rather than concentrating his attention on the
way b. c. Roman miners or soldiers contrived to fasten their rags together. It would console
one for invariably losing one's pins and hatpins when one wants them most, if one could think
future generations would grow emotional over them. Yet, on the whole, I should prefer it done
by a certain man in my own generation.

The moment we got away from Priddy, where a lot of starfish roads come together, my spirits
rose. The country began to look theatrical, which was a pleasant change after Wells, and all
my native dramaticness began to surge in me. I felt on my mettle; and when Sir Lionel talked
about visiting the Cheddar Caverns I said to myself: "My name isn't Gwen Senter if I don't
get hold of the girl in a cave, and tell her a thing or two." It can't be easy to escape from
people in caves, I thought; and so it proved. But I haven't come to that, yet.

I really enjoyed the Cheddar Ravine. It is the sort of scenery that appeals to me. Hills rose,
wild and rocky, shutting in our road, and brigands would have been appropriate, as in some
mountain pass of Spain. There were sheer gray cliffs like castles and burnt-out churches, and
watch-towers.

Said Sir Lionel: "Here we come, straight from one of the finest cathedrals made by man, to
see what Nature can do in the way of ecclesiastical architecture; façades here as fine as any
west front, and vaguely rich with decoration." I purred, of course, agreeing, and pointing
out graceful spires, empty niches for saints, tombs for cardinals, and statues of kings and
bishops with crowned and mitred heads, babbling on thus with hurried intelligence, lest Ellaline
should jump in ahead.

It's the kind of place--this weird alley of colourful rock--where you feel things must happen,
and I determined they should happen; a hidden place you are surprised at being able to enter,
as if the door had been shut by enchantment a few million years, and then forcibly opened for
modern motorists. I used this idea on Sir Lionel, in a form too elaborate to waste on a sister,
and made a distinct hit. But Ellaline got in a little deadly work at the first cave. She began
talking fairy talk with Sir Lionel, and that not being my style, I had to let her have her head.

Fancy my pretending to be a child who, having lost itself, suddenly sees a hole in a rock,
crawls in for shelter from beasts of the forest, and finds that by accident it has stumbled
on the entrance to fairyland! But Miss Lethbridge had quite a fairy game with Sir Lionel, who,
she played, was his ancestor King Arthur, carried to this strange place by the four queens
who rowed his body across the lake. "You can be one of the queens, if you like," she graciously
said to me. "And dear Mrs. Norton another?" I suggested. That turned the budding drama into
farce, as I meant it should.

It was a weird cave, and would have served excellently for my purpose; but when I heard there
was another to follow--as servants say of the next course for dinner--I thought it would be
an anti-climax to use this one. Besides, there were a good many people in it. There were tricky
illuminations to show off the best formations, one of which was King Solomon's Temple, King
S. sitting with folded arms at the entrance, his knees up as if he had a pain; but being only
a pink stalagmite, he couldn't be expected to behave.

Having done justice to Gough's Cavern, we returned to the car, and skimmed along the splendid,
rock-walled road to the next cave, which, it appears, is a deadly rival of the first. One advertises
visits of Martel, the explorer; the other boasts the approval of royalty. I'm sure they would
love to have a notice up: "By appointment to the King," as if they were tailors. But what could
a king do with a cave nowadays? At one time, it might have been handy to hide in, but those
days and those kings are changed. I believe, by the way, Britons did hide in one or two of
the Cheddar Caverns, when the Saxons were uncomfortably interested in their whereabouts, and
there are bones, but I'm glad to say we didn't see them. I hate to be reminded of what I'm
built on, and can't bear to look in the glass after seeing a skull, with or without cross-bones.

In this second cave, when Mrs. Norton was putting an appropriate prehistoric question I'd coached
her up to ask her brother, I linked a friendly arm in Ellaline's, and bore her off under convoy.

"What a sweet, illuminated stalactite curtain!" said I, rapturously. "Doesn't it look like
translucent coral, and wouldn't you like to have a dress exactly that colour?"

Thus I managed to keep her with me, and fall behind the others, glaring at Dick so meaningly
as to frighten him away when he showed signs of lingering.

My scene thus effectively set, and the two leading characters on the stage together, I lost
no time in beginning to recite my lines. It was in a dark sort of rock-parlour, with some kind
of an illuminated witches' kitchen or devil's cauldron to look at, and give us an excuse to
pause--all very effective.

"Miss Lethbridge," I said, "I have rather a disagreeable duty to perform."

"When people tell you they have a duty to perform, it goes without saying that it's disagreeable,"
she replied, with a flippancy on which I consider I have the patent.

"Have I a black on my nose, or is my dress undone at the back?"

"There is a black," said I, "but it's not on your nose."

"On my character, perhaps?" she insinuated.

"Not exactly," said I. "But it will be on my conscience if I don't get it off. You see, you
ought to know. If you don't know, you're handicapped, and it isn't fair that a girl like you
should be handicapped. I've been trying for days to screw up my courage to speak. In this queer
place, I feel suddenly as if I could. Shall we talk here, while we have the chance?"

"You talk, please," said she. "I will do the rest." (Pert thing.) However, I took her at her
word, and did what I had to do, with neatness and dispatch, as an executioner should. But the
odd part was, that when I had chopped off her head with the axe you sharpened for me and posted
from Scotland, registered and expressed, she hardly seemed to know it was off. She did look
a little pale, though that might have been the effect of the strange light, but she thanked
me pleasantly for telling her the truth, and said she quite appreciated my motive.

"I was prompted entirely by my interest in you, and because of my nephew's friendship," I said.

"Oh, yes," said she, in a voice like cream. "What else could it be?"

"It could be nothing else," I replied emphatically. "I'm sure I hated distressing you, but
it was that good might come. I do hope it hasn't upset you too much?"

"No, not too much," said she. "But it has made me horribly--hungry!"

Really, that did stagger me! I must confess I can't tell what to make of the girl. Anyhow,
she knows, which is the principal thing, and no matter how remarkable an actress she may be
for her age, she must care. It wouldn't be human not to care for such a story about her own
mother and father. Yet she took it so impersonally! I can't get over that. And she actually
ate a good luncheon! I wonder she could swallow. But, of course, I'd put everything as politely
as I could put such things, because I didn't want her to scream or faint. Well, I needn't have
worried!

We had lunch at an inn near Cox's Cavern, with two cascades in the back garden, which is shut
in by quite a private and special gorge of its own. I watched the girl as much as I dared,
but she looked about as usual so far as I could make out. The only noticeable effect of our
conversation was that she seemed somewhat suppressed, sat silent and thoughtful, and attempted
no sallies.

Dozens of motors arrived while we were eating, gorgeous cars with resplendent chauffeurs, but
there wasn't one to put the bonnet of "Apollo" (as someone has named ours) out of joint; and
not one chauffeur as striking as our extraordinary Bengali in his native dress.

I forgot to mention that I bound Ellaline to secrecy before I began my tale, saying that I'd
had the information in confidence. She has her faults, but I don't think she'd break her word.
She is one of those tall, upstanding, head-in-the-air creatures who pride themselves on keeping
a promise till it's mouldy.

My headache was better, after relieving my mind, and I enjoyed the run to Clifton and Bristol.
We had to go through the queer old gray village of Cheddar, which was as cheesy looking as
one would expect it to be; and I suppose the Market Cross we passed must have been good, as
Sir Lionel would stop and take a photograph. As we turned out of the place for Axbridge, I
threw a glance over my shoulder, back at the exit of the queer valley, and a carved bronze
screen seemed already to have been drawn across it.

It was a fine road; Axbridge a sort of toy village whose houses might have been made for good
little girls to play with; and to avoid the traffic in the main road we went by way of Congresbury,
where the Milford-Joneses live. I was glad we didn't meet them driving their old pony-chaise.
I should have been ashamed to bow. There was a turn which led us into a charming road, winding
high among woods, then coming out where the gorge of the Avon burst upon our view. It always
pleases Sir Lionel if one is enthusiastic over scenery, so I was, though I really hated going
over that awfully high suspension bridge, as I detest looking down from heights. So does Mrs.
Norton; but I can't afford to be classed with her, therefore I joined Ellaline in exclaiming
that the bridge was glorious. I suppose it is fine, if one could only look without fear of
being seasick.

We stopped all night in Clifton, in which Miss Lethbridge was interested, largely because of
"Evelina," who stopped at the Hot Wells, in the "most romantic part of the story." I couldn't
for my life remember who wrote "Evelina"--which was awkward; and it hasn't come back to me
yet. I always mix the book up with "Clarissa Harlowe," and so does Dick, though, of course,
he's read neither.

We went to see a lot of things in Bristol, but the best was a church called St. Mary Redcliffe.
Mrs. Norton, though tired, pined to go when she heard it was famous; and it's as much as your
life is worth to deny her a church if she wants one. The others, except Dick, said it was worth
stopping for; also that they were glad they did; so somebody was pleased! And Sir L. and E.
jabbered enough history in Bristol to last a schoolmaster a week. I was quite thankful to start
again, and stop the flow of intelligence, because I hadn't found time to fag up Bristol and
Clifton beforehand, as I do some towns.

So we came to Bath, where we've been stopping for two days at one of the best hotels in England,
and where I might enjoy a little well-earned civilization if it weren't that there are a thousand
and one old houses and other "features" which Mademoiselle Ellaline pretends she yearns to
visit. Of course, I know that all she wants is a chance to monopolize Sir L.'s society, but
he doesn't know that; and my business is not only to fight unjust monopoly, but to establish
a Senter-Pendragon Trust myself. Consequently there is no rest for the wicked, and willy-nilly,
I, too, gloat over relics of the past.

Luckily for me, as I have had to do more sight-seeing here than almost anywhere else, Bath
is a fascinating place, and I believe it's becoming very fashionable again. Anyhow, all the
great ones of earth seem to have lived here at one time or another. I wonder if it mightn't
be nice for you to spend a season, taking the waters, or bathing, or whatever is the smartest
thing to do? I've noticed it's only the very smartest thing that ever thoroughly agrees with
you, and I sympathize. I have the sort of feeling that what is good for duchesses may be good
for me; but if I bring off what I'm aiming at now, Lady Pendragon shall rise on the ladder
of her husband's fame and her own charm to the plane of royalties.

By the way, in nosing about among the foundations of a church here, St. Peter's--they found
the wife (her body, I mean) of that King Edmund Thingummy I never could find out about. He
seems always to be cropping up!

I was in hopes we'd only have to go back to the Roman days of Bath, as that saves trouble;
but, oh no, down I must dip into Saxon lore, or I'm not in it with the industrious Miss Lethbridge!
I think the wretched Saxons had a mint here, or something, and there were religious pageants
of great splendour in which that everlasting St. Dunstan mixed himself up. I tell you these
things, I may explain, not because I think you will be interested, but because I want to fix
them in my mind, as we haven't finished "doing" Bath yet, and are to stop another day or two.

As for Roman talk, there is no end of it among us; it mingles with our meals, which would otherwise
be delicious; and in my dreams, instead of being lulled by the music of a beautiful weir under
my window, I find myself mumbling: "Yes, Sir Lionel, Ptolemy should have said the place was
outside, not in, the Belgic border." (Sounds like something new in embroidery, doesn't it?)
"Strange, indeed, that they only discovered the Roman Baths so late as the middle of the eighteenth
century! And then, only think of finding the biggest and best of all, more than a hundred years
later!"

I assure you, I have kept my end up with my two too-well-informed companions, and I was even
able to tell Sir Lionel a legend he didn't know: about Bladud, a son of the British King Lud
Hudibras, creating Bath by black magic, secreting a miraculous stone in the spring, which heated
the water and cured the sick. Then Bladud grew so conceited about his own powers that he tried
to fly, and if he had succeeded there would have been no need for the Wright brothers to bother;
but when he got as far as London from Bath the wing-strings broke and he fell, plop! on a particularly
hard temple of Apollo. After him reigned his son, no less a person than King Lear. I got this
out of a queer little old book I bought the first day we came, but I assumed the air of having
known it since childhood. There's another legend, it seems, about Bladud and a swine, but it's
less esoteric than this, and Sir Lionel likes mine better.

I do wish we hadn't to spend so much time poking about in the Roman Baths, for though there
are good enough sights to see there, for those who love that sort of thing, one does get such
cold feet, and there are such a lot of steps up and down, one's dress is soon dusty round the
bottom, and that's a bore when one has no maid.

If I could choose, I'd prefer the Pump Room, and would rather talk of Beau Nash and the old
Assembly Rooms than of Minerva and her temple--or indeed of Pepys, or Miss Austen and Fanny
Burney. By the way, "Evelina" was hers. I've found that out, without committing myself. I wish
I could buy the book for sixpence. I think I'll try, when nobody is looking; and it ought to
be easy, for we simply haunt a bookshop in Gay Street, belonging to a Mr. Meehan, who is a
celebrity here. He has written a book in which Sir Lionel is much interested, called "Famous
Houses of Bath," and as it seems he knows more about the place as it was in old days and as
it is now than any other living person, he has been going round with us, showing us those "features"
I mentioned. He appears to have architecture of all kinds at his finger tips, and not only
points out here and there what "Wood the elder and Wood the younger" did, under patronage of
Ralph Allen, but knows which architect's work was good, which bad, which indifferent; and that
really is beyond me! I suppose one can't have a soul for Paris fashions and English architecture
too? I prefer to be a judge of the former, thanks! It's of much more use in life.

I should think there can hardly be a street, court, or even alley of Old Bath into which we
haven't been led by our clever cicerone, to see a "bit" which oughtn't on any account to be
missed. Here, the remains of the Roman wall, crowded in among mere, middle-aged things; there
the place where Queen Elizabeth stayed, or Queen Anne; where "Catherine Morland" lodged, or
"General Tilney"; where "Miss Elliot" and "Captain Wentworth" met; where John Hales was born,
and Terry, the actor; where Sir Sidney Smith and De Quincey went to school; the house whence
Elizabeth Linley eloped with Sheridan; the place where the "King of Bath," poor old Nash, died
poor and neglected; and so on, ad infinitum, all the way to Prior Park, where Pope stayed with
Ralph Allen, rancorously reviling the town and its sulphur-laden air. So now you can imagine
that my "walking and standing" muscles are becoming abnormally developed, to the detriment
of the sitting-down ones, which I fear may be atrophied or something before we return to motor
life.

Sir Lionel has remarked that Bath is a "microcosm of England," and I hastened to say "Yes,
it is." Do you happen to know what a microcosm means? Dick says it's a conglomeration of microbes,
but he is always wrong about abstract things unconnected with Sherlock Holmes.

By this time you will be as tired of Bath as if you had pottered about in it as much as I have,
and won't care whether it had two great periods--Roman and eighteenth century--or twenty, inextricably
entangled with the South Pole and Kamchatka. More tired than I, even, for I have got a certain
amount of satisfaction to the eye from the agreeable, classic-looking terraces and crescents,
and the pure white stone buildings that glitter on the hillsides overlooking the Avon. That
is the sort of background which is becoming to me, and as I had all my luggage meet me in Bath,
I have been able to dress for it; whereas Miss Lethbridge has done most of her exploring in
blue serge.

In a day or two we are off again--Wales sooner or later, I believe, though I ask no questions,
as I don't care to draw attention to my own future plans. We were asked for a fortnight, and
I am not troubling my memory to count by how many days we have overstayed--not our welcome,
I hope--but our invitation. You will wonder perhaps why I "overstay," since I frankly admit
that I'm "fed up" with too much scenery and too much information. Yet no, you are far too clever
to wonder, dear Sis. You will see for yourself that I must go on, like "the brook," until Sir
Lionel asks me to go on--as Lady Pendragon. Or else until I have to abandon hope. But I won't
think of that. And I am being so nice to Mrs. Norton (whenever necessary) that I think she
has forgiven me the colour of my hair, and will advise her brother to invite me to make a little
visit at Graylees Castle, where it is understood the tour eventually comes to an end. When
this end may arrive the god of automobiles knows. A chauffeur proposes; the motor-car disposes.
And the Woman-in-the-Car never reposes--when there's another woman and a man in the case.

Your-enduring-to-the-end,

Gwen.

P. S.--That was an inspiration of mine about the Cheddar Cavern, wasn't it? I have another
now, and will make a note of it. N.B.--Get Sir L. to take me to see the ruins of Tintern Abbey
by moonlight (if any) and while there induce him to propose, or think he has done so. I have
a white dress which would just suit.

XXVII

AUDRIE BRENDON TO HER MOTHER

Tintern Abbey, August 27th

Dearest Saint: We're not exactly living in Tintern Abbey; that would be too good to be true,
and would also annoy the rooks which cry and cry always in the ruins, as if they were ghosts
of the dead Cistercian monks, clothed not in white, but in decent black, ever mourning their
lost glory. But we are in a perfect duck of a hotel, covered with Virginia creeper, and as
close by as can be. We arrived this afternoon, and have had an hour or two of delightful dawdling
in the Abbey. Soon we are to have an early dinner, which we shall bolt if necessary, so that
we may go in again by moonlight, before the moon escapes. I have dressed quickly, because I
wanted to begin a letter to you. I shan't have time to finish it, but I'll do that when we've
come back from the heavenly ruins, with moonlight in my pores and romance in my soul. I ought
to write a better letter in such a mood, oughtn't I? And I do try to write nice letters to
my Angel, because she says such dear, kind things about them, and also because I love her better
every day.

We've seen quantities of beautiful things and places since I wrote you last, darling. To think
them over is like drawing a long gold chain, strewn at intervals with different precious stones,
through the fingers, slowly, jewel by jewel. The gold chain is our road and the beautiful beads
are the places, of course. I can say "draw them slowly through the fingers," because we don't
scorch. We are out to see the "fair face of England," not to scurry over it like distracted flies.

I don't remember many "jewels" on the way to Gloucester from Bath through Cold Aston and Stroud;
but if I were properly up in history, no doubt I should have noted more than I did; yet Gloucester
itself was a diamond of the first water. I feared to be disappointed in the Cathedral, so soon
after exquisite Wells and the Abbey at Bath, which I loved. But as soon as I got inside it
was quite otherwise, especially as I had Sir Lionel to show me things, and he knew Gloucester
of old. To me, the interior was almost as interesting as Winchester itself (which, so far,
has outranked all), for the transition from one period to another is so clearly and strangely
marked, and it's the actual birthplace of Perpendicular architecture. The Cloisters must be
among the loveliest in the world; and there's a great, jewelled window which leaves a gorgeous
scintillating circle in my mind's eye, just as the sun does on your body's eye, when you have
looked in the face of its glory. Oh, and the extraordinary stone veil, with its gilded ornamentation!
I shan't forget that, but shall think of it when I am old. There is an effect as of tall rows
of ripe wheat bending toward one another, gleaming as wheat does when the breeze blows and
the sun shines.

We heard the choir singing, an unseen choir of boys and men; and the voices were like shafts
of crystal, rising, rising, rising, up as far as heaven, for all I know.

Don't you feel that the voice of a boy is purer, more impersonal and sexless, somehow, than
the clearest soprano of a woman, therefore exactly fulfilling our idea of an angel singing?

Think of Gloucester having been laid out on the same plan as the prætorian camp at Rome! They've
proved it by a sketch map of Viollet le Duc's; and under the city of the Saxons, and mediæval
Gloucester, lies Gloucestra--"Fair City"--of the Romans. You can dig bits of its walls and
temples up almost anywhere if you go deep enough, people say. It must have been an exciting
place to live in when Rome ruled Britain, because the fierce tribes from Southern Wales, just
across the Severn, were always spoiling for a fight. But now one can't imagine being excited
to any evil passion in this shrine of the great "Abbey of the Severn Lands." The one passion
I dared feel was admiration; admiration everywhere, all the way through from the tomb of Osric
the Woden who founded the abbey, to the New Inn (which is very old, and perfectly beautiful);
in the ancient streets, at the abbot's gateway, all round the Cathedral, inside and out, pausing
at the tombs (especially that of poor murdered King Edward II., who was killed at Berkeley
Castle only a few miles away), and so on and on, even into the modern town which is inextricably
tangled with the old.

There are quantities of interesting and lovely places, according to Sir Lionel, where one ought
to go from Gloucester, especially with a motor, which makes seeing things easier than not seeing
them; there's Cheltenham, with a run which gives glorious views over the Severn Valley; and
Stonebench, where you can best see the foaming Severn Bore; and Tewkesbury, which you'll be
interested to know is the Nortonbury of an old book you love--"John Halifax, Gentleman"; and
Malvern; and there's even Stratford-on-Avon, not too far away for a day's run. But Sir Lionel
has news that the workmen will be out of Graylees Castle before long, and he says we must leave
some of the best things for another time; Oxford and Cambridge, for instance; and Graylees
is so near Warwick and Kenilworth and Stratford-on-Avon that it will be best to save them for
separate short trips after we have "settled down at home."

How little he guesses that there'll be no settling down for me--that already I have been with
him longer than I expected! Whenever he speaks of "getting home," and what "we" will do after
that, it gives me a horrid, choky feeling; and I'm afraid he thinks me unresponsive on the
subject of the beautiful old place which he apparently longs to have me see, because my throat
is always too shut up, when it is mentioned, to talk about it. I can't do much more than say
"Yes" and "No," in the absolutely necessary places, and generally show symptoms of cold in
the head, if there's a hanky handy.

Of course, I am dying to see you, dearest. You know that, without my telling, and you are everything
to me--my whole world. Yet it hurts me dreadfully to know that, when Sir Lionel Pendragon is
at home, instead of carrying out the nice plans he makes each day for "us" in the future, he
will be despising me heartily, and thinking me the very worst girl, without exception, who
ever lived. I believe he now dislikes Bloody Queen Mary more than any other woman who ever
spoiled the earth with her offensive presence; but probably she will go up one when he gets
to know about me.

I don't doubt that he'll be angry with the real Ellaline as well, but not absolutely disgusted
with her, as he will be with me. Besides, whatever he feels, it won't matter to her very much,
except where money is concerned, because she will be married before he knows the truth. She
won't have to live in his house, or even in the same country with him, for her home will be
in France with her soldier-husband. Unfortunately, I'm afraid his opinion of her may matter
in a mercenary way, for I have heard the whole story--I believe the true story--of Ellaline's
mother and father, as connected with Sir Lionel's past.

Mrs. Senter told it, and enjoyed telling it, because she thought it would depress and take
the spirit out of me. She hoped, I'm sure, that it would make me shrink from Sir Lionel's society
in shame and mortification; also she very likely fancied that I might consider myself an unfit
bride for her nephew, whose attentions to me are extremely convenient for her; but she would
prefer not to have them end in matrimony.

If I were Ellaline Lethbridge, with the feelings of Audrie Brendon, I should have taken the
recital precisely as she expected; though really I don't think Ellaline herself, as she is,
would have minded desperately, except about the money. But being Audrie Brendon, and not Ellaline,
I could have shouted for joy at almost every word that woman said, if it hadn't been in a cave
where shouting would have made awful echoes.

You know, dear, how I have been puzzling over Sir Lionel the Noble, as he appears to me, and
Sir Lionel the Dragon, as painted by Ellaline, and how I've vainly tried to match the pieces
together. Well, thanks to Mrs. Senter's revelations, the puzzle no longer exists. Of course,
long ago, I made up my mind that there was a mistake somewhere, and that it wasn't on my side;
still, I couldn't understand certain things. Now, there isn't one detail which I can't understand
very well; and that's why I'm so ready to believe Mrs. Senter's story to be true. Most disagreeable
things are; and this is certainly as disagreeable for poor little Ellaline as it was meant
to be disagreeable for me.

Mrs. Senter excused herself for telling me horrid tales about my people by saying that my ignorance
gave me the air of being ungrateful to Sir Lionel, and unappreciative of all he had done for
me. That he, being a man, was likely to blame me for extravagance and indifference to benefits
received, although aware, when he actually reflected on the subject, that I sinned through
ignorance. She thought (said she) that it would be only fair to tell me the whole truth, as
I could then change my line of conduct accordingly; but she hoped I wouldn't give her away
to Sir Lionel or Dick, as she was speaking for my sake.

When I had promised, she informed me that "my mother," Ellaline de Nesville, a distant cousin
of Lionel Pendragon's, was engaged to him when they were both very young. There was a lawsuit
going on at the time about some tin mines in Cornwall, from which most of his money came, for
the property was claimed by a man from another branch of the family, who suddenly appeared
waving a marriage certificate or a will, or something melodramatic. Well, the lawsuit was decided
for the other man, just about the time that Sir Lionel (who wasn't Sir Lionel then) got shot
in the arm and seemed likely to be a cripple for life. Both blows coming together were too
much for Mademoiselle de Nesville, who was fascinating and pretty, but apparently a frightful
little cat as well as flirt, so she promptly bolted with an intimate friend of her fiancé,
a Mr. Frederic Lethbridge, rich and "well connected." They ran off and were married in Scotland,
as Ellaline the second expects to be. (Odd how even profane history repeats itself!) And this
though Mr. Lethbridge knew his friend was desperately in love with the girl.

What happened immediately after I don't know, except that Mrs. Senter says Sir Lionel was horribly
cut up, and lost his interest in life. But anyhow, sooner or later, the lawsuit, which had
gone to a higher court, was, after all, decided in his favour. The other man turned out to
be a fraud, and retired into oblivion with his wills and marriage certificates. Meanwhile,
Ellaline Number One awoke to the fact that her husband wasn't as rich as he was painted, or
as nice as she had fancied. Some of his people were millionaires, but he had run through a
good deal of his fortune because he was mad about gambling. At first, when the bride supposed
that there was heaps of money, she enjoyed gambling, too, and they were always at Longchamps,
or Chantilly, or the English race-courses, or at Aix or Monte Carlo. By and by, though, when
she found that they were being ruined, she tried to pull her husband up--but it was too late;
or else he was the sort of person who can't be stopped when he's begun running down hill.

Probably she regretted her cousin by that time, as he was rich again, and likely to be richer,
as well as very distinguished. And when a few years later (while our Ellaline was a baby) Frederic
Lethbridge forged a millionaire uncle's name, and had to go to prison, she must have regretted
Sir Lionel still more, for she was a little creature who loved pleasure, and hardly knew how
to bear trouble.

Mrs. Senter said that Mr. Lethbridge had been sure the uncle would shield him rather than have
a scandal in the family, and so it was a great surprise to him to be treated like an ordinary
criminal. When he was sentenced to several years in prison, after a sensational trial, he contrived
to hang himself, and was found stone-dead in his cell. His widow had to go and live with some
dull, disagreeable relations in the country, who thought it their duty to take her and the
baby for a consideration, and there she died of disappointment and galloping consumption, leaving
a letter for her jilted cousin Lionel, in Bengal, which begged him to act as guardian for her
child. All the money she had at her death was a few thousand pounds, of which she had never
been able to touch anything but the income, about two hundred pounds a year; and that sum,
Mrs. Senter gave me to understand, constituted my sole right to consider myself an heiress.

Despite the shameful way in which she had behaved to him, Sir Lionel accepted the charge, eventually
took his cousin's little girl away from the disagreeable relatives, and put her at Madame de
Maluet's, where Mother Ellaline was educated and particularly desired her daughter to be educated.
Not only did he pay for her keep at one of the most expensive schools in France (Madame's is
that, and she prides herself on the fact), but gave her an allowance "far too large for a schoolgirl"
in the opinion of Mrs. Senter's unknown (to me) informant.

Doesn't this account for everything that looked strange, and for all that appeared cold-hearted,
almost cruel, in Sir Lionel to Ellaline, who had heard the wrong side of the story, certainly
from Madame de Blanchemain--a silly woman, I fancy--and perhaps even from Madame de Maluet,
whose favourite pupil Ellaline the First was?

No wonder Sir Lionel didn't write to the child, or want her to write to him, or send her photograph,
or anything! And no wonder he dreaded having her society thrust on him when Madame de Maluet
hinted that it was hardly decent to keep his ward at school any longer. I even understand now
why, when I show the slightest sign of flirtatiousness or skittishness, he stiffens up, and
draws into his shell.

I very politely let Mrs. Senter see that I appreciated her true disinterestedness in repeating
to me this tragic family history; and of course she was a cat twice over to do it. At the same
time, I never liked her so much in my life, because it was so splendid to have Sir Lionel not
only justified (he hardly needed that with me, at this stage) but haloed. I think he has behaved
like a saint on a stained-glass window, don't you?

I have interrupted my letter about places and things tremendously, to tell you the story as
it was told to me; but it seemed to come in appropriately, and I wanted you to know it, so
that you might begin to appreciate Sir Lionel at his true worth in case you have been doubting
him a little up to now.

Everyone has gone down to dinner, I'm afraid, and I must go, too, because of the Abbey afterward,
and not keeping them waiting; but perhaps, if I skip soup and fish, I may stop long enough
to add that after Gloucester we went to quaint old Ross, sacred to the memory of "The Man of
Ross," who was so revered that a most lovely view over the River Wye has been named for him.
We had lunch there, at a hotel where I should love to stay, and then passed on, along a perfect
road, down the Wye, till we came to Kerne Bridge, near Goodrich Castle. There we got out, leaving
Buddha as the god in the car, and walked for half a mile along a romantic path to the ruined
castle. It was one of the first built in England, and there are early Norman parts of it still
intact, and incredibly strong looking, as if they meant to last another thousand years. I was
so interested in it, and wish whoever it may concern would leave the castle to me in his will.
I would fix up a room or two and bring you there, and we'd have that exquisite view always
under our eyes. As for servants, we could employ ghosts.

The Wye is even more charming as a river and as a valley than we used to imagine when we wanted
to "do" England, before it burst upon us that most of the wherewithal was used up. Nothing
could be more dreamy and daintily pretty than landscape and waterscape, though here and there
is a bit which might be gray and grim if the beetling rocks weren't hatted with moss and mantled
with delicate green trees. Wherever there is a boulder in the river, the bright water laughs
and plays round it, as if forbidding it to look stern.

The real way to see the Wye isn't by motor, but by boat, I am sure, even though that may sound
treacherous to Apollo and disloyal to my petrol; but we did the best we could, and went out
of our way some miles to see Symond's Yat, a queer, delightful, white village on a part of
the river which is particularly divine. There's a splendid rock, and the Yat is the rock, as
well as the village. Also there's a cave; but I wasn't sorry not to stop and go in, lest Mrs.
Senter might seize the opportunity of telling me some other fearsome tale, less welcome than
the last.

In old days it used to take a week by coach from London to Monmouth. Now, with a motor, I dare
say we could do it in one long, long day, if we tried. Only it would be silly to try, because
one wouldn't see anything, and would make oneself a nuisance as a "road hog" to everybody one
met or passed. It was Monmouth we came to next, after "digressing" to Symond's Yat, and as
it was nearly evening by that time, Sir Lionel decided to stay the night. He meant to start
again in the morning; but Monmouth Castle, towering out of the river, was so fine that it was
a pity to leave it unvisited, particularly as Henry V., a special hero of Sir Lionel's (mine,
too!) was born there. Then we took an unplanned eight-mile run to Raglan Castle, a magnificently
impressive ruin; and that is why we arrived so late to-day at Tintern.

This letter has grown like Jack's beanstalk, until I think I'd better post it on my way to
dinner, instead of adding rhapsodies about moonlight in the Abbey. I won't forget to put them
in though, next time I write, which will be almost immediately--if not sooner.

Your even more loving than loquacious

Audrie.

XXVIII

MRS. SENTER TO HER SISTER, MRS. BURDEN

Tintern Abbey

My Dear Sis: He came, the moon saw, and I--didn't conquer!

You know what I mean? I'm sure you remember what I hoped to do at Tintern Abbey by the light
of the moon; and if you are the good elder sister I think you are, I trust you prayed for my
success. If you did, don't mind too much about the prayer not being answered, but try again,
and give Sir Lionel "absent treatments," and all that sort of thing, because, if the moon had
been properly turned on, he might have been brought to the point. For I look my best by moonlight,
and have a great gift of pathos in a white light--like heroines of melodrama who always have
themselves followed about by it on purpose--or else by a patch of snow. But the moon was only
on at half-cock, and didn't work well, and after we had stubbed our toes on several things
in dark shadows among the ruins, I just folded up my plan of campaign, and put it into my pocket
until next time.

The pity of it!--when I had been at a lot of trouble to persuade Mrs. Norton that it would
be damp in the Abbey, and that there exists a special kind of bat which haunts ruins and is
consumed by an invincible desire to nest in the front hair. So she stopped in the hotel; and
as for Miss Lethbridge, I knew I could trust Dick to look after her. But--well, it can't be
helped, and the moon is growing bigger and brighter every night. I don't know whether there
were any toe-stubbing incidents in the ranks of the rear-guard; but something must have happened,
for mademoiselle has come home looking stricken. I'm dying to hear what's the matter, but Dick
won't tell. Perhaps she swallowed a bat!

Yours (would that I could say Sir L.'s) ever lovingly,

Gwen.

XXIX

AUDRIE BRENDON TO HER MOTHER

Tintern Abbey, Same night

After all, I'm writing again, darling mother. I do think that Dick is an unmitigated cad. I
told him so, and he said it was only because I was so unkind to him, and he was determined
I shouldn't "chuck" him. He is hateful! It's too horrid to be obliged to obey Dick Burden's
orders, just for Ellaline's sake, when if it weren't for her I could not only tell him what
I think of him, but have him sent away in disgrace. Sir Lionel would thrash him, I believe,
if he knew--but it's useless to talk about that. And as Dick gracefully reminds me, the pot
can't call the kettle black. I am the pot. Oh!

I was in such a happy mood when we went into the Abbey, and so delighted that we were able
to be there by moonlight, dreaming as little of what would happen as Red Riding Hood did before
she met the wolf.

Sir Lionel and I started together, somehow, but the minute we were in the ruins Mrs. Senter
called him to ask a question about the tombs that break the soft green carpet of grass in the
long aisles. Instantly Dick pounced on me, just as his aunt did in the cave the other day,
and I could only have got away from him by showing that I'd rather be with Sir Lionel--which,
of course, I wouldn't do.

Dick began at once accusing me of avoiding him, and keeping out of his way on purpose when
he tried to speak with me alone, ever since he came back from Scotland; and I retorted flippantly:
"Oh, have you only noticed that since then?"

But in a minute I wished I hadn't defied him. He said, if I wanted him to be considerate, making
him angry wasn't the right way to set about it; and that, if I had been in his power before,
I was a good deal deeper in now.

Still, I wasn't so very frightened, because I'm used to his threats, and I thought he was only
"bluffing"; so I bluffed back, and laughed, saying that it didn't suit his style to be melodramatic.

"You make me want to shake you," he said, crossly.

"I know that," said I. And then he burst like a thunder-cloud--at least, his news did; the
news he had been wanting to tell me since Bideford.

When he was in Scotland, he saw Ellaline. She had arrived with those McNamarras I told you
about, and their place must be near the one where Dick's mother is visiting. He recognized
her from that photograph of the school garden-party (where he saw my picture, too, you know,
and was able to find out my name, and where we live in Versailles). That is, he thought he
couldn't be mistaken, but made sure by inquiring, until he hit upon someone who could tell
him that a Mademoiselle de Nesville had come to stay with Mrs. and Miss McNamarra. Of course,
he couldn't have known that Ellaline had taken the name of de Nesville, but as he had heard
that de Nesville was her mother's maiden name, it wasn't difficult for a budding Sherlock Holmes
to put two and two together.

You see how much worse the position is now, both for Ellaline and me, and that the little wretch
didn't exaggerate when he boasted that I'm more "in his power" than ever. What a misfortune
that Ellaline should have come to Scotland--so near where we shall be, too, if we go to the
Roman Wall! He has only to tell the whole thing to Sir Lionel, and say: "If you don't believe
it, run up to such and such a place, and there you will see the real Ellaline Lethbridge, whom
perhaps you may recognize from her likeness to your cousin, her dead French mother."

If only Ellaline were safely married! But she can't be yet, for days and days, I'm afraid.
She was to have written or telegraphed me at Gloucester, if there were any chance of her soldier
lover getting away sooner than last expected; but I had no word from her at all, at the Poste
Restante there.

All that sounds bad enough for me, doesn't it? But there's worse to come. The wretch swears
he will (as he calls it), "give the show away" to Sir Lionel to-morrow if I don't tell Sir
L. myself that I have fallen in love with Dick.

I said that Sir Lionel wouldn't believe me if I did, because I'd told him at Torquay I wasn't
in love with Dick. That admission slipped out, and Sherlock Holmes caught at it. "Ah, I thought
you'd done something to put him off the scent!" he flashed out. "I call that downright treacherous
of you; and all the more I'll hold you down to your bargain this time. I said I'd speak to-morrow
unless you did what I told you to do, but now I say I'll speak this minute, if you don't promise
by all that's sacred to ask him for his consent to-morrow. I'll shout to him now. One--two--three!"

"Yes, yes, I will!" I cried--because Dick had worked himself up to such a fury that I saw that
he meant what he said.

"I shall know fast enough whether you keep your word or not," he growled. "And if you don't,
you understand just what you have to expect."

If I hadn't given in to Ellaline! I ought to have known that nothing but trouble could come
of it. Yet no--I won't wish it undone. I can't! No matter what happens, I shall never really
regret what gave me the chance of meeting a man like Sir Lionel. I don't think there is another
in the world. And to-morrow I am to have the honour of informing him that I'm in love with
that little worm, Dick Burden. Having seen the sun, I love a flicker of phosphorus on a sulphur
match.

Do write me the minute you get this, won't you? No, telegraph if you can think of anything
consoling to say. Poste Restante, Chester.

Your frightened and loving

Audrie.

XXX

AUDRIE BRENDON TO HER MOTHER

Aberystwith, August 29th

Brightest and Best: I have a short reprieve, because Dick has had to go away again; not to
his mother, this time, but to London. A telegram was forwarded to him from Gloucester, where
he had left sending-on instructions; and he knocked at my door early yesterday morning (at
Tintern) to say he must leave immediately by the first train. He was excited, because the telegram
came from the head of a firm of well-known private detectives with whom he had been in correspondence
for some time, trying to buy a junior partnership for a few hundreds left him by his grandmother.
There's a chance now that he may get the partnership, only he must be on the spot, as another
man is making an offer "more advantageous--in some ways." Dick is wild to get in, and regards
this as the opportunity of a lifetime. Doesn't that prove the type of mind he has? Actually
yearning to be in business as a detective! Well, he's had good practice lately, and I must
say he has made the most of it.

"This call couldn't have come at a worse time, but I must obey it," he pronounced solemnly,
while I peeped through my half-open door, in my prettiest Ellaline dressing-gown--far too nice
to waste on Dick. Disgusted with life, as I was, I nearly laughed in his face, and at his face;
but dared not quite, for fear of enraging him again just when he appeared to be in a comparatively
lenient mood.

He had come to explain and apologize, and in his perky conceit really seemed to fancy that
I might be hurt at his desertion. So when he asked if I would "bid him good-bye pleasantly,
and remember to keep my promise," I had a small inspiration. I would bid him good-bye pleasantly,
I bargained, provided he let me off keeping the promise until he should come back; because,
I said, it would be humiliating to plead with Sir Lionel on the very day my fiancé turned his
back upon me in order to attend to mere business.

"You call this mere business?" sputtered Dick; and I soothed him, but persisted firmly, gently,
until at last he agreed to grant the reprieve. I think his own vanity, not my eloquence, obtained
the concession, because it pleased him to believe that I leaned upon him in this crisis. And
of course I had to promise over again, more earnestly than ever, "not to back out, but to stick
to my word."

I must still stick to it, of course (unless a wire or letter from you meanwhile suggests some
miraculous, agreeable, honourable alternative); but sufficient for the day is the evil thereof--and
the Dick thereof.

This day and several days to come are free from both; for my albatross can't arrange the details
of its partnership, sell out some investments in order to pay the money down, and join us again
before Chester. There I shall certainly hear from you; and I have such infinite faith in your
dove-like serpentineness, that I let myself cling to the ragged edge of hope. Meanwhile, I
shall enjoy myself as much as I possibly can, so that, at worst, I shall have more good days
to remember when bad days come. For the days will be very bad indeed if I have to bear Sir
Lionel's silent scorn, and still remain with him, awaiting release from Ellaline.

I felt like a different human being after Dick had gone, and would have written you at once,
but he had delayed me so long that I had to finish dressing at top speed, because we were to
make an earlier start than usual. There was Chepstow Castle to see (quite near, and a shame
to have missed it), as well as a hundred-and-fifty-mile run to Tenby.

Chepstow was splendidly picturesque and striking; but the country through which we had to pass
on the way to Tenby would not have been particularly interesting if it weren't for the legends
and history with which it is as full as it is of ruined castles. It is largely coal country
now, and after the lovely, winding Wye, playing hide-and-seek with its guardian hills, we might
have found the road unattractive as we ran through Newport, Cardiff, Neath, Swansea, and Carmarthen.
But it made all the difference in the world to know that Carmarthen was Merlin's birthplace;
that stories of Arthur's exploits and knightly deeds leave golden landmarks everywhere; and
that it seems quite an ordinary, reasonable thing to the people to name railway engines after
Sir Lancelot. Isn't it charming of them? Yet what would Elaine, the Lily Maid of Astolat, say
to such a liberty, I wonder?

We arrived in Tenby too late for anything save an impression, last evening; but it was one
of those enchanting, mysterious impressions which one can only have after dusk, when each old
ivied wall is purple with romance, and each lamp in a high window is a lovelight.

My first thought as we came in and found Tenby on fire with sunset, was that the place looked
like a foreign town set down in England; and so of course it is, for it was founded by a band
of Flemish people, who fled from persecution. The huge old city walls and quaint gates put
me in mind of a glorified Boulogne, or a bit of old Dinan, under the castle. And the way the
town lies, with its beautiful harbour far below, its gray rocks and broken walls by the sea,
in golden sands, is like Turner's ideas of historic French fortresses. The Benedictine monks,
too, who come across the gleaming stretch of water from Caldy Island in a green-and-red steam
yacht, add one more foreign note. And I'm delighted to tell you that the hotel where we stayed
is built upon the city wall of which nobody seems to know the date--not even the guide-books.
The people we asked rather apologized for having to confess that probably it was no earlier
than the twelfth century; for the twelfth century is considered crudely modern for Welsh things.

In front of my bedroom window an old lookout tower, darkly veined with ivy, stood up from the
vast foundation of the stone wall; and at night I could gaze down, down, over what seemed in
the moon-mist to be a mile of depth, to an almost tropical garden laid out on the wall itself.
When the tide comes in and drowns the gold of the sands, the sea breaks against the buttress
of rock and stone, and the hotel seems all surrounded with the wash and foam of waters, like
a fortified castle of long-ago.

We ought to have stopped more than one night and part of a next day, but there is so much,
so much to do; and, as I told you, Sir Lionel's thoughts are already marching on toward home.
There are all the beauty spots of Wales before us; and the Lake Country, and the North by the
Roman Wall, before we turn south again for Graylees. I say "we"--but you know what I mean.

The run we had to-day, coming through Cardigan to Aberystwith, has begun to show me what Wales
can do in the way of beauty when she really puts her soul to it; but Sir Lionel says it is
nothing to what we shall see to-morrow. What joy that I have still a to-morrow--and a day after
to-morrow--empty of Dick! Do you suppose a condemned person finds his last sip of life the
sweetest in the cup? I can imagine it might be so.

You'll be glad to get this, I'm sure, dearest, so I'll send it at once, with loads and loads
of love from,

Your Criminal Child.

P. S. I forgot to tell you that Aberystwith isn't nearly as beautiful as Tenby, but it has
a castle towering over the sea, built by no one less than Gilbert Strongbow the Cruel, who
grabbed all Cardiganshire for himself, and dotted castles about everywhere--or else stole other
people's, which saved trouble. I know you like to picture me wherever I am, so I must tell
you at least that about Aberystwith, though describing places seems irrelevant in my present
mood. I am keyed to the "top notch," and don't feel able to do anything leisurely. I do not
expect to sleep to-night, and shall get up as soon as it's light, and dart down to the beach
to look for amber, or carnelian, or onyx, which they say can be found here. I asked a chambermaid
of the hotel, after we arrived this evening, what all the mysterious, stooping people were
doing on the sands, and she said searching for amber, to bring them luck. I hope I may come
across a bit--even a tiny bit. I am needing a luck-bringer.

There was another mystery which puzzled me here: droves of pretty girls, between twelve and
twenty, flitting past the windows, on "the front," every few minutes; sometimes two by two,
sometimes four or five together. I thought I had never seen so many young girls. There were
enough for the girl population of a large city, yet here they were all crowded together in
this small watering-place. But the chambermaid has swept away the mystery. It's a college,
and the girls "live out" in different houses. At the other end of the town is another college
for young men. That sounds entertaining, doesn't it?

XXXI

AUDRIE BRENDON TO HER MOTHER

Pen-y-gwrd-Hotel, August 30th

Dear Rose-Without-a-Thorn: I didn't find the amber, but Sir Lionel found a fat little, round
lump, and gave it to me; and that seems almost more lucky than finding it myself; because it
may mean that something good is to come to me from him.

He was on the Aberystwith beach when I got there, though it was only half-past six. He hadn't
said a word the night before, but he made up his mind then to find some amber--for me. You
see, he knew the superstition about luck, and how everybody goes hunting for it.

I picked up a pretty piece of carnelian, and gave it to him in exchange, asking him "to keep
it to remember me by."

"I don't want to remember you," he answered. And when, perhaps, I looked hurt, he went on:
"Because I want to keep you in my life. I want you very much, if----"

But just then Mrs. Senter came behind us, and left that "if" like a key sticking in a door
which couldn't be opened without one more turn. I should have liked to know what was behind
the door; but I daresay there was nothing much, really.

She, too, had come to look for amber and other things. I don't know about the other things,
but she didn't find the amber.

At eleven o'clock, after seeing something of the place, we slipped away toward Machynlleth,
along a hilly road, which grew lovelier with each of its many twists among low mountains. Now,
said Sir Lionel, we were about to see the heart of Wales; and I should soon have realized that
without his telling, for as we slowed down to pass through little villages we heard the children
talking Welsh--a soft, pleasant language, which I can only try to describe by saying that it
sounded like whispering out loud. But that is a very Irish description!

The scenery was so gentle in its beauty that my wild, excited mood was lulled by its soft influence.
The colour of landscape and sky kept the delicate tints of spring, though we are in full, rich
summer; and there was none of the tropical verdure we saw near Tenby; no crimson fountains
of fuchsias, no billows of blood-red roses, and fierce southern flowers. Pale honey-suckle
draped the gray or whitewashed stone cottages. Rocks and crannies of walls were daintily fringed
with ferns, or cushioned with the velvet of moss, and crusted with tarnished golden lichen.
A modern-timbered house, rising pertly here and there, looked out of place among dwellings
whose early owners quarried each stone from among their own mountains.

As we left the fairy glades of those wooded hills for rugged mountains scantily clad with ragged
grass, slate-quarries tried their ugly best to blotch and spoil the scene, but owing to some
strange charm of atmosphere, like a gauze veil on the stage, they could not quite succeed.
By and by the gauze veil turned to rain, but rain suited the wild landscape--far better, by
the way, than it suited Mrs. Senter, whose nightly hair-wavers are but a reed to lean upon
in wet weather. She made some excuse to come behind with Emily and me, and before the car started
again I summoned courage to ask if I might take her place, saying I loved to feel the rain.

So there I was with Sir Lionel once more; and I wondered if he thought of that night when we
rushed through the storm from Tintagel to Clovelly? Soon this also bade fair to be a storm,
for the rain began to tumble out of the sky, rather than fall, as if an army of people stood
throwing down water by the bucketful. I revelled in it, and in the sombre scenery, where sharp
rocks stood out like bones through the tattered green coats of soldier-mountains. All the world
was gray or gray-green, save for a patch of purple heather here and there, like the stain of
a new wound.

We were under Cadir Idris, mounting the pass high above a deep ravine; yet the blowing rain
hid the mountain from our eyes as if he were the veiled prophet. The sound of the wind, which
seemed to come from all quarters at once, was like the mysterious music of a great Æolian harp,
as it mingled with the song of ghostly cascades that veined the dark rocks with marble. Mountain
sheep sprang from crag to crag as Apollo rounded a corner and broke into their tranquil lives,
now and then loosening a stone as they jumped. One good-sized rock would have bounced down
on the roof of our car if Sir Lionel hadn't seen it coming, and put on such a spurt of speed
that Apollo leaped ahead of the danger. But he always does see things in time. You wouldn't
think sheep could have as much expression as those sheep had, when they saw us and weren't
sure which way to run. Of course they needn't have run at all; but whichever way they decided,
it was certain to be wrong!

I was sorry to leave that pass behind, and have its door shut after us, for we came out into
a pastoral landscape, where the only wild things were the grazing black cattle. It was charming
country, though; and in less than a mile we had reached a famous spot known as the Tourist
Walk. The rain was pelting down harder than ever, so we could not get out and take the walk;
but soon after we had abandoned it the deluge suddenly turned from lead to a thick spray of
diamonds, mixed with sparkling gold-dust. Our road glittered ahead of us like a wide silver
ribbon unrolled, as we sailed into the little gray town of Dolgelly on its torrent river; and
beyond, in a fresh-washed radiance of sunlight, the way was one long enchantment, the sweet
world of green hills and musical waters looking as young as if God had made it that day. The
graceful mountains which pressed round the valley had the air of waiting each her turn to stoop
and drink a life-giving draught from the river, which, as we neared Barmouth, opened to the
sea, gleaming like a vast sheet of quicksilver. Further on, travelling through woods where
young green trees shot up from gilded rocks, glimpses of the estuary came to us like a vision
of some Italian lake.

Just before Harlech, the wild yet nymph-like beauty of the world changed to an almost startling
grandeur, for the coast moved back from the sea with a noble sweep, magnificent mountains towered
along the shore, and line after line of beryl waves shattered into pearl upon a beach of darkened
gold.

Harlech Castle was an event in my life. I thought I had begun to take ruined castles for granted
in Wales, as you do sea-shells on the shore; but Harlech is a castle that you couldn't take
for granted. It was a shock at first to find that a hotel had been built in the very face of
it, as if bearding it in its den; yet it is a nice hotel; and when we had lunched there agreeably,
I not only forgave it for existing, but began to like and thank it for having thoughtfully
placed itself on that admirable height.

From here our eyes ought to have been smitten with the sight of Snowdon; but the Grand Old
Mountain was asleep, his head buried in white cloud-pillows which alone betrayed his whereabouts;
so we had to be content with the castle. And I was content. To see the splendid ruin reared
on its great rock, dark against sea and sky, was thrilling as a vision of an old wounded knight
girding his strength for a last stand.

History says that Harlech Castle is no older than Edward I.; but story says (which is more
important, because more romantic) that in the dim dawn while History still dozed, here rose
the Tower of Twr Brauwen, white-bosomed sister of Bran the Blessed. Also, it came into the
possession of Hawis Gadern, a great beauty and heiress, whose uncles tried to wrest it from
her, but were defeated and imprisoned in the castle. Anyway, however that may be, Owen Glendower
came and conquered, in the beginning of the fifteenth century, when he was forging a chain
of wonderful deeds which made him the hero of Wales. Never mind if he was driven away a few
years after by Prince Henry. That's another story.

The way from Harlech by Portmadoc to exquisite Pont Aberglaslyn and Beddgelert is very Arthurian;
that is, it suggests pre-mediæval backgrounds, and at every turn I caught myself expecting
to come upon Camelot, unspoiled, unchanged. The high mountains still wore their invisibility
masks, but the lower mountains, not too proud to show themselves to motoring mortals, grouped
as graciously together as if they were lovely ladies and gay knights, turned to stone just
when they had assembled to tread a minuet. And the fair Glaslyn flowed past their feet with
a swing and sweep, as though the crystal flood kept time to dance music which our ears were
not attuned to catch.

Quickly we flashed by more than one beautiful lake, too; a jewel hidden among mountains, found
by our eyes unexpectedly, only to be lost again. And all the while Cader Idris and Snowdon
drew hoods of mist over their heads, pulling them down tightly and firmly. Not once had we
caught a glimpse of either mountain, though we were almost near enough to knock our noses or
Apollo's bonnet against their sharp elbows; but we were too happy to care much--at least, one
of us was!--and we cared even less when rain came on again. I still kept my place beside Sir
Lionel, who was repentant for having made me cry over the dreadful, agonizing, too-tragic story
of Gelert. I won't repeat it to you, because it's wickedly sad, and grayhound Gelert was so
much nobler than most people.

Sheets of spun glass shimmered and waved before us, as we rushed on through the mountains,
past the beautiful place of Gelert's grave, up toward Pen-y-gwrd. And the tinkling swish of
the rain on the glass sounded to me as the Welsh names had begun to sound. I wish you could
hear them spoken, for the spelling gives no idea of their pronunciation, or the pleasant, muffled
music of them. But all I can tell you is, that when you come into Wales you will feel they
are characteristic of the country; mysterious, sympathetic, rather secretive.

Sir Lionel was happy in the thought of Pen-y-gwrd, because some of the best memories of his
boyhood are associated with that little spot in the mountain-land of Wales. He used to come,
and climb with an old friend a few years older than himself, a Colonel O'Hagan, who is in Bengal
now, and who--he thinks--will like me. Not much chance of our ever meeting!

Just as Sir Lionel finished quoting Charles Kingsley on Pen-y-gwrd, we drew up in front of
a low gray stone building; and Kingsley's merry words rang in my ears as the door of the hotel
opened. You know I can always remember a verse after having once heard it.

    "There is no Inn in Snowden which is not awful dear,
    Excepting Pen-y-gwrd (you can't pronounce it, dear)
    Which standeth in the meeting of noble valleys three;
    One is the Vale of Gwynant, so well beloved by me;
    One goes to Capel Curig, and I can't mind its name;
    And one, it is Llanberis Pass, which all men knew the same."

Never did any gesture give a better welcome than the opening of that door! We'd been too happy
to know we were cold with the chill of the mountains--half-seen shapes that hovered close,
with white cascades like ghosts flitting ever across their dimness; but when a glow of firelight
streamed out to greet us, suddenly we realized that we were shivering.

In the square hall, several men were talking together, men with Oxford voices and open-air
faces. In their midst was one man, much older, grizzled and weather-beaten, not a gentleman
in the conventional sense, yet in listening to him the others had an air of deference, as if
he were a hero to the group. The four or five figures stood out like a virile, impressionist
sketch in black and brown on a red background; but as we entered, welcomed by some pink-cheeked
young hostess, the ruddy light danced into our eyes. The men in front of the fire moved a little
as if to give place, and glances were thrown at us, while for an instant the conversation flagged.
Then the group was about to return to its own interests, when suddenly, out from among the
rest stepped the grizzled man. He hesitated, as if uncertain whether or no to obey an impulse,
then came forward with a modest yet eager air.

"I can't be mistaken, sir, can I?" he asked. "It must be Mr. Pendragon--I beg your pardon,
Sir Li----"

"Why, Penrhyn!" cried Sir Lionel, not giving him time to finish; and seizing one of the gnarled
brown hands, he shook it as if he never meant to stop. Both their faces had lighted up, and
were beaming with joy. The grizzled man seemed to have thrown off fifteen years in a minute,
and Sir Lionel looked like a boy of twenty-two. By this time everyone was gazing--staring is
too rude a word--and the other faces were beaming as well, as if the most delightful thing
had happened. I am sure that Sir Lionel had forgotten the existence of us three females, and
had rushed back to the bright dawn of his youth. It was the light of that dawn I saw on his
face; and I found my heart beating with excitement, though I didn't know why, or what it was
all about.

"By Jove, Penrhyn, to think of your being the first man to greet me on our old stamping-ground!"
Sir Lionel exclaimed. "It seems too good to be true. I've been thinking about you all day,
and your face is a sight for sore eyes."

"I'd rather see you, sir, than have a thousand pounds drop down on me through the ceiling,"
retorted the mysterious hero. (I should think so, indeed.)

They shook hands, and beamed on each other a little more, and then Sir Lionel remembered his
flock. Turning to us, he introduced the grizzled man.

"This is my old friend and guide, Owen Penrhyn," said he, as if he were drawing us into the
circle of a prince. "There never was a guide like him in the Welsh mountains, and never will
be again. Jove! it's glorious to find him at the old business still! Though, in our day together,
we didn't carry this, eh?"

Then I saw that an Alpine rope was coiled across one of the strong shoulders clad in rough
tweed, and that the great stout boots were strikingly trimmed with huge bright nails.

"It's like Sir Lionel to put the praise on me," protested the dear old thing, flushing up like
a boy. "Why, he was the best amateur" (he pronounced the word quaintly and I loved him for
it) "I ever see, or ever expect to see. If he'd gone on as he began, he'd a' broken the noses
of some of us guides. Pity he had to go to furrin' parts! And I'll be bound he never told you,
ladies, of his first ascent of Twll Ddu, or how he pulled me up out of the torrent by sheer
strength, when my fingers were that cold I couldn't grip the hand-holds? I'd 'a' fallen clear
to the bottom of the Devil's Kitchen if't hadn't been for Mr. Pendragon, as he was then. And
what d' you think, ladies, he says, when I accused him o' savin' my life?"

"What?" I begged to know, forgetting to give my elders a chance to speak first.

"'Tommy rot.' That's his very words. I've never forgot 'em. 'Tommy rot.'"

He beamed on us, and every one in the hall laughed, except perhaps Emily, who smiled doubtfully,
not sure whether or no it was to her brother's credit to have remarked "Tommy rot" in such
a crisis. But after that, we were all friends, we, and Owen Penrhyn, and the other men, too;
for though we didn't really talk to them till dinner, I knew by their eyes that they admired
Sir Lionel immensely, and wanted to know us all.

At dinner there was splendid climbing talk, and we heard further tales of Sir Lionel's prowess;
among others of a great jump he had made from one rock of Trifaen to the other, with only a
little square of rock to light upon, just on the edge of a sheer precipice; a record feat,
according to the old guide. And while the men and we women listened, the wind outside raged
so wildly that now and then it seemed as if a giant fell against the house and afterward dashed
pebbles against it in his fury. Then again the wind-giant would rush by the hotel in his hundred-horse-power
motor-car, tooting his horn as he went. It was nice sitting there in the comfortable dining-room,
listening to the climbing stories, while the wind roared and couldn't get at us, and the whole
valley was full of marching rain!

Now I am writing in my bedroom, close to a gossipy little fire, which is a delightful companion,
although August has still a day to run. Mrs. Senter is having her beauty sleep, I suppose;
and I should think Mrs. Norton is reading Young's "Night Thoughts." I know she takes the book
about with her. The men are still in the hall downstairs, very happy, if one can judge by the
laughter that breaks out often; and I am as happy as I can be with the thought of Dick probably
appearing at Chester day after to-morrow night. But I won't let myself think of that too much,
because it isn't certain that he will get back then, and it is certain that there will be some
word from you, which may change everything. You see what faith your girl has in you! But wouldn't
she be ungrateful if she hadn't?

There is one other thing which has been bothering me in odd moments, though, and I wish I had
asked your advice about that, too, in the letter to be answered at Chester; but the idea hadn't
occurred to me then. It suddenly sprang into my mind last night when I was lying in bed, not
able to go to sleep.

Ought I to repeat to Ellaline what Mrs. Senter told me about the money? I don't mean the part
about the poor child's father and mother. No one but a thorough Pig of the Universe would tell
a daughter perfectly unnecessary horrors, like those; but about her not being an heiress in
her own right, and depending on Sir Lionel for everything except two hundred a year?

If I were really in her place, instead of pretending to be, I should want to know, and shouldn't
thank anyone for keeping the truth from me. It would be unbearable to accept generosity from
a man, thinking I might be as extravagant as I liked, with my own money. But it is difficult
to make up my mind, on account of the fiancé. You, being French yourself, know how it is with
French officers who fall in love with a girl who has no dot, or only a small one. Most of them,
if poor themselves, would slap their foreheads and despair, but think it their duty to their
country to forget the girl.

I'm afraid the adorable Honoré is rather poor; and though no normal young man, especially a
Frenchman, could help being fascinated by Ellaline if thrown in her society, many normal young
men would be more ready to let themselves go, believing her to be an heiress. Perhaps Honoré
wouldn't have proposed if he hadn't thought Ellaline a very rich as well as a very pretty girl.
Perhaps if he found out even now, at the eleventh hour, that she depends upon a person whom
she has just slighted and deceived, he might desert her.

Wouldn't that be awful? Not that I think Ellaline would tell him, if I wrote to her exactly
what I've heard from Mrs. Senter. Fascinating as she is, it isn't in her to be frank. I'm sure
she would keep the secret until after her lover was safely her husband; but she would be upset
and even more anxious about the future than she is.

I don't know what to do. And in the last letter I had from her she scolded me for continually
praising Sir Lionel. She is sure I am mistaken about him, and that, if I can see any good under
the dragon's scales the evil monster must have hypnotized me. She really seemed quite vexed.
Maybe I shall hear from her at Chester. I hope so, as I'm rather worried because she didn't
write to the last address I was able to give.

Whatever message your expected letter or telegram has for me, I will answer it at once.

Good night, dearest little Dame Wisdom, with more love than ever from

Your

Audrie.

I'm so glad we are staying here all day to-morrow and to-morrow night. There are dozens of
beautiful things to see; and besides, it is as safe as the inmost circle of a labyrinth from
Dick, who has no clue.

XXXII

AUDRIE BRENDON TO HER MOTHER

Queen's Hotel, Chester, September 1st

We've been in Chester for several hours, my Angel; and not only is there no Dick (for which
heaven be praised), but no word from you, which worries me. Still, I shan't be really anxious
unless on my second call at the post-office (to be made by and by) I draw a blank again. At
least, I didn't draw a blank exactly when I went there before. I drew a letter from Ellaline,
with vexing news. Honoré de Guesclin is in a scrape. He could get leave now, and come to her,
but he and some of his brother officers have been amusing themselves by learning to play bridge.
Naturally, those who played best came off best, and Honoré wasn't one of them. He has borrowed
of a money-lender, and is in a hole, because the fellow won't let him have more, and is bothering
for a settlement. Also, Honoré owes some of his friends, and hasn't a penny to pay up or start
on a journey. Ellaline doesn't seem to think much about the moral aspect of her Honoré's affairs
(you see, she knows nothing of what her mother must have suffered from her father's penchant),
but she is in a great state of nerves about the delay. She has always been told it was bad
luck to put off a wedding, and besides, she finds Scotland triste, and wants to be married.

You can guess to what all this is leading up! I must get money, somehow, anyhow, but a great
deal, and immediately. I must send her at least four thousand francs by return of post; five
thousand, if possible; but if "Monsieur le Dragon is too stingy to give more, at all events
nothing less will be of the least use."

It's easy for her to dictate terms. She hasn't got to face the very upright and honourable
gentleman whom, she calls the Dragon, whereas I have; and I've already shamed myself by asking
for large sums at short intervals. I simply can't go to him here and "hold him up" for four
thousand francs. It would be monstrous, and if he asked what I wanted to do with it (as it
seems to me it would be only his duty to ask the young schoolgirl he thinks me) I should be
able to find no decent excuse, as I have no expenses beyond those he pays. However, I shall
have to do something desperate, I don't know yet what. He has given me some pretty things,
and though I hate the thought of parting with them in such a way, as they're Ellaline's by
rights, it's no more than fair she should benefit by them in the hour of her need. Poor girl!
Of course there's nothing for it but she must marry the young man now, yet it seems a poor
outlook, doesn't it?

She explains in a P. S. that she was too upset to write me to the last place, as she hadn't
heard from Honoré when she expected; but now, if the money is forthcoming all right he will
start for Scotland as soon as possible after receiving it from her, and settling up. I have
calculated times as well as I could, and fancy that if I can in any way send her a post-office
order from Chester to-morrow, she and Honoré may be able to marry in a week. Once I shouldn't
have believed I could be sorry to have my "principal" arrive and take back her own part; but
now, if it weren't for Dick Burden, it would actually be a temptation to me to delay Ellaline's
appearance on the scene. Of course, I wouldn't be such a wicked wretch as to yield to the temptation,
but I should feel it.

Ellaline promises to telegraph the moment Honoré arrives, and again when they're safely married,
so as to give the understudy plenty of time to scuttle off the stage, before the guardian is
informed that his charge has been taken off his hands. She doesn't want to see Sir Lionel,
she says, but she and Honoré will write him unless, when Honoré has consulted a Scottish solicitor
(if that's what they're called), it's considered wiser for the lawyer himself to write. So
you see, this makes it harder for me to know what to do about repeating Mrs. Senter's story.
If Ellaline understood her position she would, perhaps, think it better to come with her bridegroom
and throw herself at her injured guardian's feet.

What a nice world this would be if your affairs didn't get so hopelessly tangled up with other
people's that you can hardly call your conscience your own! And never have I realized the niceness
of the world more fully than in the last few days.

Yesterday I had a little easy climb with Sir Lionel and the old guide, and saw the glory of
Llanberis Pass. To-day, on the wings of Apollo, we have flown through amazingly interesting
country. It really did seem like flying, because the road surface was so like velvet stretched
over elastic steel that eyesight alone told us we touched earth.

Miles aren't tyrants any more, but slaves to the mastery of good motor-cars; and any motoring
Monte Cristo can fairly exclaim, "The world is mine!" (N. B. This isn't original. Sir Lionel
said it at lunch.) From North Wales to Cheshire looks a long run on the map, but motors are
made to live down maps; and we arrived in this astonishingly perfect old town early in the
afternoon, coming by way of Capel Curig (whence we saw Snowdon crowned with a double rainbow),
sweet Bettws-y-coed, or "station in the wood," and so down the river valley in a bird swoop,
to noble Conway, with its castle that was once a famous Welsh fortress. Now, in piping days
of peace, its towers and turrets still dominate bridge and river, and the great pile is as
fine, in its way, as Carcassone. Don't you remember, it was from Conway Castle that Richard
the Second started out to meet Bolingbroke?

We stopped to take photographs and buy a few small pearls from the "pearl-breeding river";
and while we gazed our fill at the mighty monument, we learned from a guardian that in old
days a certain Lady Erskine hired the castle for six shillings and eightpence a year, in addition
to a "dish of fish for the Queen," when her majesty chanced to pass!

At Colwyn Bay we lunched early, at a charming hotel in a garden above a sea of Mediterranean
blue; and the red-roofed town along the shore reminded me of Dinard. After that, coming by
Abergele and Rhuddlan to Chester, the way was no longer through a region of romance and untouched
beauty. There were quarries, which politely though firmly announced their hours of blasting,
and road users accommodated themselves to the rules as best they might. But there were castles
on the heights, as well as quarries in the depths; and though Sir Lionel says that inhabitants
of Wales never think of turning to look at such a "common object of the seashore" as a mere
castle, I haven't come to that state of mind yet.

Near Rhuddlan there was a tremendous battle at the end of the seventh century, out of which
so many fine songs have been made that the Welsh princes and nobles who were slain have never
lost their glory. There's a castle, too (of course), but the best thing that happened for us
was a gloriously straight road like a road of France, and as nobody was on it save ourselves
at that moment, we did about six miles before the next moment, when others might claim a share.
I believe the Holyhead road is very celebrated.

Soon we had to turn our backs upon a mystic mountain-land that ringed us in, and face the sea
once more--a wide water-horizon whose line was broken with great ships steaming from all parts
of the world to Liverpool.

Apollo had seemed a little faint before luncheon, because of some inner disturbance, but he
was flying fast as a saint on his way to Paradise as we crossed the Dee, into England out of
Wales, and sprang into Gladstone country.

When people are obliged to reach a town by rail, there must be disappointments to lovers of
the picturesque, as you and I know by experience. It's like arriving at a house by the tradesmen's
entrance; but with a motor one sails up to the front door through the park.

Of all the towns to which Apollo has brought us, the entrance to Chester to-day was the best.
The first effect of colour left on my eyes the impression of sunset-red, warm as copper beeches.
The place seemed to be lit with fading firelight, and I wondered at the soft glow everywhere,
until I realized that the big buildings--the Cathedral, the great houses and the old city wall--were
all made of rosy sandstone.

You can't imagine how a large town which has lived as long as Chester has, and gone on growing,
could have contrived to remain so satisfyingly beautiful, or keep such an air of old-time completeness.
But the secret is, I suppose, that Chester is "canny" as well as "bonny," and, being wise,
she refused to throw away her precious antique garments for glaring new ones. When she had
to add houses, or even shops, wherever possible she reproduced the charm and quaintness of
the black and white Tudor or Stuart buildings which are Chester's intimate treasures.

Of course, I've seen little of the place yet; but after I had been to the post-office, I strolled
about before coming back to the hotel, partly to recover from my disappointment in not hearing
from you, partly because I was so bewitched with my first glimpse that I couldn't bear to come
indoors still a stranger to the town. Hovering in front of the Cathedral (a curious building,
black in its oldest parts, bright pink where it has been renovated) I saw Sir Lionel and Mrs.
Norton coming. That was awkward, because I had said I wanted to "settle in" before sight-seeing,
but I explained vaguely that I'd changed my mind, and was invited to go into the Cathedral
with them. Perhaps it was because Emily was with us that nothing seemed very wonderful in the
interior--unless the carved oak in the choir--but the cloisters are beautiful, and I liked
the chapter house.

After "doing" the Cathedral, Mrs. Norton was tired, so Sir Lionel and I had a walk alone, an
adventure Mrs. Senter would never have allowed if she'd guessed I was out of my room. She is
a dog in the manger about walks. She hates them herself, but she won't let other people take
them without her if she can help it.

We dropped Emily at the hotel, and had a delicious ramble (speaking for myself!) through the
four extraordinary streets which stand for much in Chester's peculiar fame. Wandering there,
it was easy to believe what the guide-books say: that nowhere in Great Britain does a town
exist which so preserves the ancient character of all its architecture. I don't know if there
are British relics; but the city wall and gates are Roman, part of the castle, too; and since
mediæval days nothing seems to have lost in picturesqueness. People come from all over the
world to see the Rows: streets dug out below the rock-surface on which the town was originally
built, having shops and even warehouses on their level, with galleries above, open fronted,
stone-paved, balustraded with black oak, so that these "Rows" all look as if the houses were
wide open, communicating with one another. The carved oak fronts of the houses and shops, done
ingeniously with strange pargetting, and adorned with wondrous windows, are so adorably queer,
with their stagey effects, that I don't wonder Chester has become a kind of Mecca for travellers
from my native land, where most things are new.

When we had thus skimmed a little of the cream from the town itself, we had a walk on the old
wall, while church bells, near and distant, chimed; but still I don't feel I've more than glanced
at the place. To-morrow we plan to run out to Knutsford, which is Mrs. Gaskell's Cranford really,
and I have begged to start early, because if we do (though naturally I don't allege this reason)
we can get off before Dick arrives. Then, when we come back, we can do more sight-seeing, and
maybe be out when he turns up at the hotel. After that event, unless you save me to-night with
some miraculous suggestion, all pleasure will be over. And at best, I'm not looking forward
with undiluted joy to to-morrow, because I must not only decide what to do for Ellaline, but do it.

While I was walking on the wall with Sir Lionel just now, gazing up at watch-towers, or down
over the town, and dodging seedy amateur guides whom we nicknamed "Wallers," I kept thinking,
thinking, about what to sell. The only thing Sir Lionel has given me of really great value,
which could be easily disposed of, is the ruby and diamond ring. But how it would hurt me to
give it up in such a sordid way! It was my birthday present from him, and it's associated in
my mind with that night of moonlight in the New Forest when I first knew I cared. But I'm sorely
afraid it must be the thing to go. There are several important-looking antique shops here,
and I noticed, when casting my eye about, one where they make a speciality of curious and rare
jewellery. I shall look at it again more carefully when I run out to the post-office, in a
few minutes, and perhaps I may have courage to try and strike a bargain, so as to send the
money off in the morning before Knutsford--if I get it----

An hour later.

Dearest, I've got your wire, now, having retrieved it from the Poste Restante, and I'm thankful
for it--thankful that you're well, thankful that you don't blame me for anything I've done,
faults committed or mistakes made. But--alas, I don't think the advice, good as it is, will
be of any use to me. You see, you don't know Mrs. Senter. It would be hopeless for me to try
and force her to exert authority over Dick Burden.

In the first place, she has no real authority, as apparently he has no expectations from her;
and in the second place, though I'm almost sure she doesn't know the truth about me and Ellaline,
she suspects that Dick has a hold over me; and after all I've submitted to from him already
it would be impossible to "bluff" her into the belief that I'd dare ask Sir Lionel to send
them both away. No, my dear one, there's little hope for me in that scheme. I allowed Ellaline
to make my bed for me, and I must lie in it, although it has proved to be one of those nasty
folding ones that will shut and swallow me up in a trap.

No, it's cowardly to whine like that. It won't be pleasant to keep my promise to Dick; but
there have been worse things; and I shall probably be able to escape before long. Anyhow it
will all be the same a hundred years hence. As soon as I am with you again it will be as if
nothing had happened; and meanwhile I am going to keep a "stiff upper lip." It mayn't be becoming,
but that won't matter, as Sir Lionel will never look at me; and you will see by my letters
in future how well I am getting on.

Best love to my best loved,

From

Audrie.

XXXIII

SIR LIONEL PENDRAGON TO COLONEL PATRICK O'HAGAN

Keswick Hotel, September 3rd

My Dear Pat: Here we are, you see, in the "happy hunting ground" where you and I used to hunt
such shy game as chimneys, needles, crevices, etc., etc.; and if I'm not as happy in it now
as I ought to be, that isn't the fault of the country, which is as fair as it ever was--the
fairest in England, perhaps.

It just happens, unfortunately, that I've been rubbed up the wrong way before coming to the
places I'd looked forward to revisiting more than any other, except Cornwall; and if I hadn't
invited dear old Penrhyn from Pen-y-gwrd to meet me here, and have a climb, I'm not sure I
should have stopped. However, I have enjoyed the beauty of the run. I must have been as blind
as a mole, and as earthy, if I hadn't.

Fine road from Chester to Liverpool, which city had an air of opulent magnificence seen from
the ferry, as we neared her--rather like a huge, modern Venice. Lunched there, at the Adelphi,
on the fat of the land, and had some trouble finding the way out of town. Liverpool welcomes
the coming, but doesn't speed the parting guest; not a sign-post in sight anywhere. Bad pavé
till Ormskirk, when things improved, growing better and better; but no scenery to speak of
until near Preston. Villages all along the line, stone-paved; struck me as being characteristic
of that stern North Country which we approached. "Road too good not to mean police-traps,"
said I to myself; and an A. A. scout warned me that they swarmed; but luckily we were not held
up. I wasn't in a temper to have taken any nonsense lying down, I'm afraid.

Ran straight through Lancaster, which was almost a pity, as John o' Gaunt's Castle is a brave
old fortress, whether or no he really built the famous tower; and at the King's Arms we might
have got some genuine oat-cakes, which would have given a taste of Cumberland to the strangers.
As it was, the first truly characteristic things we came upon were the stout stone walls, on
which we happened a little short of Kendal. Down to Windermere, a steep but beautiful run;
Mrs. Senter by my side, and very enthusiastic. She seems to take an unaffected interest in
scenery, with which you would hardly have credited her in old times. She was entranced by her
first sight of the lake, which is not surprising, for to one who has never seen them the lakes
must be a revelation.

Dick Burden, by the way, was not with us on this run, nor was he at Chester. He had business
in London, which kept him longer than he expected when he left our party at Tintern. I can't
say I regret him, though others may. I understand that there has been some telegraphing between
him and his aunt, and that his present intention is to rejoin us at Newcastle. Rather wish
he would put off his return a little longer, as it is arranged that we go out to Cragside and
Bamborough Castle; and one doesn't like to abuse such delightful hospitality as we have been
offered there. Dick's presence does not add to the gaiety of nations, it seems to me, and I
am not keen on taking him.

I found Penrhyn waiting for me here, the good fellow, delighted at the prospect of his short
visit, and to-morrow he and I will have some small climb. I shall send the car, with Young
Nick to drive all who care to go, to a few of the beauty spots, while I am otherwise occupied.
They must penetrate the cloistered charms of exquisite Borrodaile, and of course see Lodore,
which ought to be at its best now, as there have been heavy rains. Jove! How the Cumberland
names ring on the ear, like the "horns of elfland"! Helvelyn; Rydal; Ennerdale; Derwent Water;
Glaramara! Aren't they all as crystal as the depths of mountain tarns, or that amethystine
colour of the sky behind the clear profiles of high peaks?

I'm sorry we're too late for the Grasmere Sports; but the fact is we have lingered by the way
longer than I planned for this trip; and now, as things are turning out I'm inclined to cut
the end of the tour short. Graylees is practically ready for occupation, and I feel as if I
ought to be there.

No! That isn't good enough for you, old chap. It's true, as far as it goes; but you have begun
to read between the lines by this time, I know, and I may as well speak out. I should be an
ostrich if I weren't sure that you've been saying to yourself: "Why doesn't this fellow refer
to the girl he has spent so much pen and paper on? Why does he go out of his way to avoid mentioning
her name?"

Well, she hasn't eloped, or done anything culpable. But there is no use concealing from you,
as I have told you so much, that she has hurt me to the quick. Not that she has been unkind,
or rude, or disagreeable. Quite the contrary. And that's the worst of it, for I prayed to heaven
that there might be nothing of her mother in this young soul. At first, as you know, I could
hardly believe the girl to be all she seemed, but soon she won me to thinking her perfection--a
lily, grown by some miracle of Nature in a soil where weeds had flourished hitherto. I would
have given my right hand rather than have to admit a flaw in her--that is, the one fatal flaw:
slyness hidden under apparent frankness, which means an inherited tendency to deceit.

This may sound as if I had found the poor child out in a lie. But there has been no spoken
lie. She has only done the sort of thing I might have expected Ellaline de Nesville's daughter
to do.

I told you about the ring I bought her at Winchester, and gave her on her birthday; how prettily
she received it; how she seemed to treasure it more because of the thought and the association
than the intrinsic value of the ruby and the brilliants.

At Chester, the night before we left, I thought I'd try to pick up some little souvenir of
the town for her, as she was delighted with the place. Of course I wanted something small,
as our luggage isn't of the expanding order, so I had the idea of jewellery; a little antique
pendant, or a few old paste buttons. There is a certain shop in the "Rows" where one looks
for such things, and expects to find them good, if highly priced. In the window of that shop
I saw displayed for sale the ring I had given to Ellaline!

The sight of it there was a blow; but I persuaded myself I might be mistaken; that it wasn't
the same ring, but another, almost a duplicate. I went in and asked to look at it. The shopman
mentioned that it was something quite unusually good, and had "only come in" that afternoon.
Inside I found the date which I had had engraved on the ring; the date of Ellaline's birthday.
I bought it back--for a good deal more than I paid in Winchester, as this chap knew his business
thoroughly; but that is a detail. It was merely to satisfy a kind of sentimental vanity that
I wanted to get the thing out of the window and into my own hands; for, needless to say, I
don't intend to speak of the matter at all to Ellaline. It would humiliate me more than it
would her, to let her see that I know what she did with her birthday present; for partly, I
blame myself. I supposed that I was fairly free-handed with money, and had no idea that the
girl could possibly want more than she had. Still, I told her to let me know in case she found
me thoughtless, and not to hesitate to ask for anything she wanted. She could have had as much
as she chose, and I would have put no questions. If I'd been surprised with the largeness of
the sums, I should have believed that she had some pensioners to whom she wished to be charitable;
for I had begun to believe that she could do no wrong.

As I said, there was nothing culpable in selling the ring. It was hers. She had a right to
do as she liked with it. But that she should like to part with it; that she should do so, knowing
I would hate it if I knew; that she should be exactly the same with me as if she hadn't done
a thing which she was aware would distress me; that she hadn't the courage and frankness to
come to me and say----

Oh, hang it all, I'm grumbling and complaining like an old prig! Perhaps I am one. I know Dick
Burden thinks so. We'll let it go at that. I don't need to explain to you a matter which outwardly
is insignificant, and is significant to me only for reasons which the past will account for
to you better than my explanations.

The salt has gone out of life a bit, and I think it will do me good to get to Graylees, where
I shall find a thousand things to interest me. I daresay Ellaline will be glad to settle down,
though she is too polite to show it; and I'm sure Emily will.

After a look at the Roman Wall, and a sight of Bamborough, we shall run to Warwickshire with
few détours or pauses.

You see, by the way, that you were wrong in thinking she could care. If there had been the
least warmth in her heart for me she couldn't have sold my ring. I'm glad I didn't make a fool
of myself.

Penrhyn wants to be remembered to you.

Yours ever,

Pen.

XXXIV

SIR LIONEL PENDRAGON TO COLONEL O'HAGAN

County Hotel, Newcastle, September 5th

My Dear Pat: You'll be surprised to get another letter from me on the tail of the last, but
there have been developments in which I think you will be interested.

The sale of the ring was a mere preface to what has followed.

We arrived at Newcastle this afternoon, finding Burden already here. I didn't think the meeting
between him and Ellaline particularly cordial, but appearances are deceiving where girls are
concerned, as I have lately been reminded in more ways than one. About an hour ago, while I
was getting off some letters and telegrams, I received a message from my ward asking if she
could see me in the hotel drawing-room--the place is so full I couldn't get a private one.

I went down at once, of course, dimly (and foolishly) hoping that she wanted to "confess" about
the ring. But it was quite a different confession she had to make; her desire to be engaged
to Mr. Burden!

Naturally, after our last conversation on that subject, I was somewhat surprised, and on the
spur of the moment was tempted to remind her that not long ago Young Nick had appeared as suitable
in her eyes, as young Dick. However, I stopped in time to save myself from being both bounder
and brute. I did inquire whether she were now sure of her own mind; but it was the duty of
a guardian and not the malice of a disappointed man which prompted the question.

Her manner was singularly dry and businesslike, and she came as near to looking plain as it
is possible for a beautiful girl to come; so love isn't always a beautifier.

"I am sure of my mind for the moment," she replied, with repulsive prudence. "I suppose a girl
need never say more."

This answer and her manner puzzled me, so I ventured to ask, in a guardianly way, if she thought
she were enough in love with Burden to be happy with him.

"I haven't to think about being with him at all yet," she temporized.

"You seem to have an extraordinary idea of an engagement," I said, perhaps rather sneeringly,
for I felt bitter, and had never approved of her less.

"Perhaps I have," she returned, in such an odd, muffled sort of tone that I feared she was
going to cry, and glanced at her sharply. But she was looking down and there were no tears
visible, so that fear was relieved.

"You do, at all events, wish to be engaged to Burden?" I persisted. "Am I to understand that?"

"I have asked for your consent," she said, with a queer stiffness. And it was on my tongue
to say as stiffly, "Very well: you have it. What pleases you should please me." But the words
stuck in my throat, as if they'd been lumps of ice; and instead I answered, almost in spite
of myself, that I couldn't give my consent unconditionally. I must have another talk with Burden,
and whatever my decision might be, I would prefer that she didn't consider herself engaged
until after the tour was ended.

"We'll bring it to a close as soon as possible now," I added, trying not to sound as bitter
as I felt, "so as not to keep you waiting."

She made no response to this, except to give me a singular look which even now I find it impossible
to understand. It was as if she had something to reproach me for, and yet as if she were more
pleased than sad.

Girls are very complicated human beings, if indeed they can be classified thus--though perhaps
some men's lives would be duller if they were simpler. As for my life, the less girls have
to do with it when my ward is off my hands, the better.

Since the above conversation, I have been drawn into a talk with Burden. He appeared anxious
to find out exactly what had passed between Ellaline and me, almost as if he suspected her
of not "playing straight," but I replied, briefly, that she had asked my permission to be engaged
to him, having evidently changed her mind since our last discussion on the subject. This appeared
to content him more or less, although I repeated what I'd said to the girl: that I was not
prepared to consent officially until I had communicated with his mother, and satisfied myself
that my ward would be welcomed in the family. This he evidently thought old-fashioned and over-scrupulous,
but when I admitted being both, he ceased to protest, only saying that he wished to write to
his mother first. I suggested talking with his aunt, also, and he did not object to the idea,
so Mrs. Senter and I have already had a short conversation concerning her nephew's love affair.
She cried a little, and said that she would be "horribly alone in the world" when her "only
real pal" was married, but that of course she wished for his happiness above everything, and
she meant to give him a wedding present worth having, if she beggared herself for years. The
poor little woman showed a great deal of heart, and I was touched. I'm afraid she's not too
happy, under her air of almost flippant gaiety and "smartness," for she rather hinted that
she liked some man who didn't care for her--someone she met in the East. I suppose she can't
be cherishing a hidden passion for you? Rather cruel of us, accusing her of being a flirt in
those days, if she were in earnest all the time, eh?

In case I "pump" her a little about this mysterious disappointment, and find it's you she's
thinking of, I may turn the tables, and give you some good advice--better than you gave me.
You might do worse than get leave and have another look at this pretty and agreeable lady before
deciding to let her slip.

Yours always,

Pen.

Good old Owen enjoyed his two days in Cumberland. He, too, tried his hand on advising me. Said
I ought to marry. Not I!

XXXV

MRS. SENTER TO HER SISTER, MRS. BURDEN

Newcastle, September Something

My Dear Sis: This is to ask a great favour of you, and you must be a pet and grant it. There's
nothing I won't do for you in return, if you will.

I have just been having a most satisfactory chat with Sir L. It began in reference to Dick.
Somehow or other that ingenious darling had forced Ellaline Lethbridge to ask Sir Lionel for
his (Dick's) hand! I say "forced," because she is not in the least in love with him, indeed,
(strange as it may seem to you) detests the ground he walks on; yet she does things that he
tells her to do--things she hates like poison. This last coup of Dick's convinces me of what
I've often suspected: he knows something about her past which she is deadly afraid he will
tell Sir Lionel. It may be connected with that visit to Venice, when the Tyndals saw her; anyhow,
whatever the secret may be, it is serious. She is obliged to bribe Dick; but she dislikes him
too intensely to marry him ever--even if the way to do so were made easy; so, I reiterate,
have no fear on that score.

Sir Lionel fancies himself in love with the girl, but he will get over it, even if he isn't
on the way to do so already, pushed roughly onto the right road by her confessed preference
for Dick. For the moment, however, I can see he is rather hard hit, though he would be mad
if he dreamed I or anyone could read his august feelings. He thinks his hesitation to permit
an engagement arises from conscientious scruples, but really it's because he can't bear to
have any other man (or boy) making love to his girl. That's the brutal truth; and he's haggling
and putting off the evil day as long as he can. He wanted to ask me what my feeling was in
the matter; whether you would be pleased, and so on. Ellaline might not be rich, he explained,
but she would have enough for her own wants as a married woman. He thought her husband, when
she had one, ought to wish to do the rest; and though Dick considered his own prospects good,
a partnership in a detective agency hardly seemed ideal.

I told him I couldn't quite answer for you, as you had always hoped your one boy might fall
in love with a rich girl; but that I was sure Dick adored Ellaline. I asked if I should write
to you, when Dick did; and he said, half reluctantly, perhaps I had better. Poor wretch, he
was afraid I might succeed in persuading you!

I was pathetic on the subject of Dick, and our comradeship, which must be broken by the dear
boy's marriage, and as Sir L. was suffering himself, he was in just the right mood to sympathize
with me. I snivelled a little; and at last, emboldened by success, I allowed him to gather
that there was someone I'd cared for a long, long time--someone who didn't care for me. At
that he was so nice, that I liked him better than I ever thought I could; and since then I
feel I really can't and shan't lose him.

No sooner had he given my hand a warm yet disappointing "kind friend" squeeze, at parting,
than I routed out Dick in his own room. I promised him that I would induce you to write a nice
letter about the proposed engagement to Sir Lionel if he in his turn would persuade Ellaline
to put in a good word for me with Sir L., to tell him that she believed I cared for him a good
deal, and was unhappy.

When I said "persuade" to Dick, I meant use his unknown power to command; for if the girl would
say that to her guardian, her words would be the one stone capable of killing two birds. It
would prove to him that of which I don't think he is perfectly sure at present: her love for
Dick, or, at worst, her complete indifference to himself; and it would pop into his head the
idea I want to put there, though I have done all it's safe to do openly toward inserting it.

I saw when I softly hinted at a hopeless affection which had spoiled years of my life, that
he didn't think of himself. Somehow, he must be made to think; and now is the right time, for
his heart is sore, and needs balm. He would be so sorry for me that, in the state he is in,
he couldn't be hard. He would argue that, as he was bound to be unhappy anyway, he might as
well try to make others happy. I feel that everything would happen exactly as I want it to
happen if Ellaline Lethbridge could be depended upon to say the right thing.

Of course, there lies the danger: that she won't. But Dick boasts that she'll have to do as
he tells her. It's worth risking; but he won't give the word unless he thinks that I've coaxed
you 'round.

That's the favour I ask. Will you, when you get this, wire to me at once, "Writing according
to your request to Sir L."? I can then show your telegram to Dick (you must address it to me
at Bamborough Castle, where we are to spend a night, after staying one at Cragside) and he
will put pressure to bear on Ellaline Lethbridge.

You can be absolutely certain that no harm will come of this. That Dick and she will never
be married; whereas, when I am married to Sir Lionel, I'll give you a present of five hundred
pounds, within the first year, to do with as you like. I'd even be willing to sign a paper
to that effect.

Your anxious, yet hopeful

Gwen.

XXXVI

AUDRIE BRENDON TO HER MOTHER

Bamborough Castle, September 9th

Dear: I know you are miserable about me, but don't be it, because I'm not miserable about myself.
Honour bright!

I've done the hateful deed. It was at Newcastle: and I knew I was in for it, the minute I saw
Dick. He's got his partnership, and thinks he's got me. But there's many a slip 'twixt Dick
Burden and Audrie Brendon.

I wouldn't tell Sir Lionel I was in love with the horrid Boy Detective, and I'm happy--or nearly
happy--to say that he refused to give his consent straight out to an engagement. He told Dick
the same thing; so there'll be no leaving us two alone in lovesick corners (can corners be
lovesick?), or making announcements, or anything appalling of that sort.

Perhaps it was easier, speaking to Sir Lionel, because he hadn't been kind to me since the
last evening in Chester--I can't think why, though I can think why I deserved unkindness. The
ring was terribly on my mind; but he can't have found out about that, because the man in the
shop promised he wouldn't try to sell it until next day.

I couldn't get quite what Ellaline wanted, though I sold two or three other things--all I could
sell; but it came nearly to the right amount; and it went off to her in Scotland, in the form
of a post-office order, that same night--assured instead of registered, as the letter was so
valuable.

Sir Lionel being somewhat frigid and remote in his manner, appearing to take no more interest
in me than if he were a big star and I a bit chipped off a Leonid, I delivered myself of what
I had to say without great difficulty. I had a queer, numbed feeling, as though if it didn't
matter to him, it didn't to me, until just at the last, when he said something that nearly
made me cry. Luckily I was able to swallow the sob. It felt like a large, hot, crisp baked
potato; and my heart felt like a larger, cold-boiled beet soaked in vinegar.

It's all over now, though, and I'm comparatively callous. Maybe the vinegar has pickled me
internally?

Bamborough Castle, where we arrived to-day with our kind and delightful hosts of Cragside,
is to be the northernmost end of the tour. On leaving, we turn southward; and would make straight
for Warwickshire and Graylees, if, in an evil moment, Mrs. Norton and I hadn't for once agreed
about a place that we longed to see. It is Haworth, where the Brontës lived, and Sir Lionel
said that our wish should be gratified. He planned a day in Yorkshire: Ripon, Fountains Abbey,
Haworth, Harrogate (not York, because Emily went there with the late Mr. Norton, and has sad
marital memories); and the plan still stands. I have an idea that Sir Lionel is impatient to
reach Graylees now, so after the Yorkshire field-day we will push on there; and I shall perhaps
hear from Ellaline as to Honoré's plans. He ought to be in Scotland by that time. I've written
her to wire me at the nearest post-office to Graylees Castle, as I don't like to receive telegrams
there. But I see no reason why you shouldn't send a letter to Graylees--the last letter, I
hope, which need ever be addressed to me as "Miss Ellaline Lethbridge." It will seem nice to
get into my own name again! Rather like putting on comfortable shoes after tight ones that
made blisters. And how divine to fly to you--a distracted chicken, battered by a thunderstorm,
scuttling back under its mother's downy wing!

Nevertheless, I'm not going to cheat you out of seeing England through my eyes, because my
pleasure--just a little of it--is damped by Dick. I am resigned and calm, and you mustn't think
me a martyr. I've told you I hate whiners, and I won't be one. Why, I ought to be thankful
for the chance of such a wonderful trip, and not be cowardly enough to spoil it by a few private
worries!

Cumberland is even lovelier than Wales, though I shouldn't have thought that possible. Sir
Lionel went climbing with the nice Welsh guide, whom he invited to Keswick, so he wasn't with
us much; and Dick being in London still, there were only Mrs. Norton, Mrs. Senter, and I to
be conducted by Young Nick. It did seem odd being driven by him, and seeing his back look so
inexpressive among the most ravishing scenes. I asked if he didn't think Cumberland glorious,
but he said it was not like India. I suppose that was an answer?

We spun off into the mysterious enchantments of Borrodaile in gusts of rain; but the heavenly
valley was the more mystic because of the showers. Huge white clouds walked ahead of us, like
ghosts of pre-historic animals; and baby clouds sprawled on the mountain sides, with all their
filmy legs in air.

At Lodore the water was "coming down" like a miniature Niagara. Heavy rains had filled the
cup of its parent river full, and the waterfall looked as if floods of melted ivory were pouring
over ebony boulders. What a lovely, rushing roar! It was like the father of all sound--as if
it might have given the first suggestion of sound to a silent, new-born world.

Windermere and Derwent Water we saw, too, and each was more beautiful than the other. Also
I was much excited about the Giant's Grave, near Keswick, which has kept its secret since before
history began.

All the way to Carlisle the country was very fair to see, scarcely flagging in charm to the
end; and Carlisle itself was packed with interest, from its old cathedral to the castle where
David I. of Scotland died and Mary Queen of Scots lodged.

Now our thoughts were turned toward the Roman Wall, and I thrilled a little, despite the forbidding
stiffness of Sir Lionel's disapproving back as he drove. Because of Kipling's splendid story
of the Roman soldier in "Puck of Pook's Hill," I knew that for me the Great Wall (all that's
left of it) would be one of the best things. Parnesius, the young centurion, told Una and Dan
that "old men who have followed the Eagles since boyhood say nothing is more wonderful than
the first sight of the Wall." And also that there were no real adventures south of it.

We had left the mountains before we came into Carlisle, but not the hills; and after one of
grandiose size, which an old Northumbrian we met called "a fair stiff bank," we were on the
Roman road; the long, long, straight road forging uncompromisingly, grimly up and down, ever
on, scorning to turn aside for difficulties; the road where the Legions paced with the brave
Roman step--"Rome's race, Rome's pace," twenty-four miles in eight hours.

Kipling illuminated the way through Haltwhistle and Chollerford to the Chesters, a private
park which is a big out-of-doors museum, for it has in its midst the remains of old Cilurnum.
We got out at the gates, and wandered among the ruins that have been reverently excavated;
a gray and faded scene, like a kind of skeleton Pompeii with dead bones rattling; entrance
gateways; ghost-haunted guard-houses; stone rings which were towers; many short, straight streets
whose half-buried pavements once rang under soldiers' heels; the Forum; all the camp-city plan;
a map with outlines roughly sketched in stone on faded grass. We had had our first sight of
the Wall of which centurions in Britain bragged when they went back to Rome. Then it was a
Living Wall; but it is very wonderful still, where its skeleton lies in state.

We had started so early from Keswick, that it wasn't two o'clock when we left the Chesters;
and I was surprised when, instead of drawing up before some country inn for lunch, we skimmed
through a gate only a mile or two away, and stopped under the shadowy frown of an imposing
mediæval stronghold. It was Haughton Castle, whose towers and keep are crowded with stories
of the past, and the visit was to be a surprise for us. Sir Lionel knew the owner, who had
asked us all to lunch, for the "dragon's" sake; and it looked quite an appropriate resting-place
for a dragon of elegant leisure. It was as interesting within as without; and after luncheon
they took us over the castle; best of all, down in the deep dungeon where Archie Armstrong,
a chief of moss-troopers, was forgotten and starved to death by his captor, Sir Thomas Swinburne,
a stout knight of Henry the Eighth's day.

There is a long story about Archie, too long to tell you here; but each castle of Northumberland
(the county of castles, not of collieries) has dozens of wonderful old stories, warlike, ghostlike,
tragic, and romantic. I have been reading a book about some of them, which I will bring you.
It's more interesting than any novel. And King Arthur legends are scattered broadcast over
Northumberland, as in Cornwall. Also the "Scots wha hae wi' Wallace bled" did much of their
bleeding and fighting here. There's history of "every sort, to please every taste," from Celtic
times on; but I'm not sure that the troublous days of the great feudal barons weren't the most
passionately thrilling of all.

If the first sight of the Wall was wonderful to the Roman soldiers, so must have been the first
sight of the wide Tyne. I know it was so to me, as we flashed upon it at the first important
twist of the straight Roman road, and crossed it on a noble bridge.

Of course, Newcastle has a castle; and it was "new" when William the Conqueror was new to his
kingdom. Now that I've seen this great, rich, gay, busy city, ancient and modern, I realize
how stupid I was to associate it with mere coal, as strangers have a way of doing, because
of the trite remark about "taking coals to Newcastle." Why, the very names of the streets in
the old part chime bell-like with the romance of history! And I like the people of Northumberland--those
I have met; the shrewd, kindly townsfolk, and the country folk living in gray villages, who
love old, old ways, and emit quaint wit with a strong, rough "burr."

They have the look in their eyes that Northern people have, all the world over; a look that
can be hard, yet can be kinder than the soft look of more melting Southern eyes. Sir Lionel
is of the South--born in Cornwall; yet his eyes have this Northern glint in them--as if he
knew and understood mountains. Just now they are terribly wintry, and when they rest coldly
on me I feel as if I were lost in a snowstorm without hat or coat. But no matter!

Now, what shall I say to you of Bamborough Castle, which is the crown of our whole tour?

I wish I were clever enough to make the splendour of it burst upon you, as it did upon me.

Imagine us motoring over from Cragside (a very beautiful and famous modern house, with marvellous
gardens and enchanting views) which belongs to these kind, delightful friends of Sir Lionel's
who own Bamborough Castle. There was a house-party at Cragside, and there were twelve or fifteen
of us who left there in a drove of automobiles.

Down the beautiful winding avenue; then out upon a hump-backed, switchback road, a dozen miles
and more, past great Alnwick, on, on, until suddenly a vast, dark shape loomed against the
sky; a stone silhouette, not of a giant's profile, but of a whole vast family of giants grouped
together, to face the sea.

To own a Thing like that must feel like owning Niagara Falls, or the marble range of the Sierra
Nevada, or biting off a whole end of England and digesting it. Yet these charming people take
their ownership quite calmly; and by filling the huge castle from keep to farthest tower with
their beautiful possessions, seem to have tamed the splendid monster, making it legitimately
theirs.

I thought Alnwick grand, as we passed, but its position is insignificant compared with Bamborough,
which has the wide North Sea for a background. On a craggy platform of black rock like a petrified
cushion for a royal crown, it rises above the sea, a few low foothills of golden sand drifting
toward it ahead of the tide. The grandeur of the vast pile is almost overwhelming to one who,
like me, has never until now seen any of these mighty fortress-castles of the North; but a
great historian says that the site of Bamborough surpasses the sites of all other Northumbrian
castles in ancient and abiding historic interest; so even if I had been introduced to dozens,
my impression must remain the same. "Round Bamborough, and its founder, Ida (the Flame-Bearer),
all Northumbrian history gathers"; and it is "one of the great cradles of national life."

Bamborough village, close by, was once the royal city of Bernicia, and the "Laidly Worm" was
there to give it fame, even if there had never been a Grizel Cochrane or Grace Darling; but
the history of the hamlet that once was great, and the castle that will always be great, are
virtually one. I shall bring you Besant's "Dorothy Foster," and lots of fascinating photographs
which our hostess has given me. (I don't think I need leave them for Ellaline, as she wouldn't
care.) But you know the story of the Laidly Worm, because Dad used to tell it to me when I
was small. The wicked stepmother who turned her beautiful stepdaughter into the fearsome Worm
used to live at the bottom of a deep, deep well that opens in the stone floor of the castle
keep; and there, in the rock-depths, a hundred and fifty feet below, she still lurks, in the
form of a gigantic toad. I have been allowed to peep down, and I'm sure I caught the jewelled
sparkle of her wicked eye in the gloom. But even if she'd turned me into a Laidly Worm, I couldn't
be more repulsive than I probably am at present to Sir Lionel; besides, I could crawl away
into a neighbouring cave with modern improvements, and console myself with a good cry--which
I can't do now, for fear of getting a red nose. I should hate that, because Mrs. Senter's nose
is so magnolia-white, and the background of a magnificent feudal castle sets off her golden
hair and brown eyes so passing well.

There might be volumes of history, as well as romances, written about Bamborough Castle--as
Sir Walter Scott, and Harrison Ainsworth, and Sir Walter Besant knew. Why, the thrill of unwritten
stories and untold legends is in the air! From the moment I passed through the jaws of outer
and inner gateways, I seemed to hear whispers from lips that had laughed or cursed in the days
of barbaric grandeur, when Bamborough was the king of all Northumbrian castles. There are queer
echoes everywhere, in the vast rooms whose outer walls are twelve feet thick; but more deliciously
"creepy" than any other place is the keep, I think--even more thrilling than the dungeons.
Yet the castle, as it is now, is far from gloomy, I can tell you. Not only are there banqueting-halls
and ball-rooms, and drawing-rooms and vast galleries which royalties might covet, but there
are quantities of charming bedrooms, gay and bright enough for débutante princesses. My bedroom,
where I am writing, is in a turret; quaintly furnished, with tapestry on the wall which might
have suggested to Browning his "Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came."

It's very late, but I don't like to go to bed, partly because I can't keep jumping up and down
to look out of my window at wild crags and moonlit sea when I'm asleep; partly because I have
such silly, miserable dreams about Sir Lionel hating me, that I wake up snivelling; and to
write to you when I'm a tiny bit triste is always like warming my hands at a rainbow-tinted
fire of ship's logs.

To-morrow afternoon we are going back to Newcastle, where we will "lie" one night, as old books
say, and then make a very matinal start to do our great day in Yorkshire, passing first through
Durham, with just a glance at the great cathedral. Once upon a time we would have given more
than a glance. But, as I told you, Sir Lionel seems to have lost heart for the "long trail."

I never saw him so interested in Mrs. Senter as he has appeared to be these last two nights
at Cragside and here. Certainly she is looking her very, very best; and in her manner with
him there is a gentleness and womanliness only just developed. One would fancy that a sympathetic
understanding had established itself between them, as it might if she told him some piteous
story about herself which roused all his chivalry.

Well, if she has told him any such story, I'm sure it is a "story" in every sense of the word.
And I don't know how I should bear it if she cajoled him into believing her an injured innocent
who needed the shelter of a (rich and titled) man's arm.

Perhaps it is a little sad wind that cries at my window like a baby begging to come in; perhaps
it is just foolishness; but I have a presentiment that something will happen here to make me
remember Bamborough Castle forever, not for itself alone.

Afternoon of next day

It has happened. Best One, I don't quite know what is going to become of me. There has been
the most awful row. It was with Dick, and Sir Lionel doesn't know about it yet, and we are
supposed to be going away in a few minutes; but maybe Dick is talking to Sir Lionel now, and
if he is, I don't suppose I shall be allowed to proceed in the company of virtuous Emily and
(comparatively) innocent Gwendolen. I shall probably be given a third-class ticket back to
Paris, and ordered to "git."

It's rather hard that, having sacrificed so much, large chunks of self-respect among other
things, it should all come to nothing in the end. Ellaline will want to kill me, for I have
thrown her to the lions. It won't be my fault if they don't eat her up.

Oh, darling, I do feel horribly about it, and really and truly, without exaggeration, I would
have died sooner than repay her kindness to me by giving her away like this. An ancestress
of yours in the Revolution ran up the steps of the guillotine laughing and kissing her hands
to the friends she left in the tumbril, and I could have been almost half as brave if by so
doing I might have avoided this dreadful abandoning of Ellaline's interests, trusted to me.
But what can you do between two evils? Isn't it a law of nature, or something, to choose the
lesser?

Dick went just the one step too far, and pulled the chain too tight. He had begun to think
he could make me do anything.

A little while ago, I was alone in the armoury, absorbed in looking at a wonderful engraving
of the tragic last Earl of Derwentwater, when suddenly Dick came up behind me. I wanted to
go, and made excuses to escape, but he wouldn't let me; and rather than have a scene--in case
anyone might come--I let him walk me about, and point out strange old weapons on the wall.
That was only a blind, however. He had something particular to say, and said it. There was
another thing I must do for him: find a way of informing Sir Lionel, prettily and nicely, that
Mrs. Senter cared for him, and was very unhappy.

I flew out in an instant, and said that I'd do no such thing.

"You must," said he.

"I won't," said I. "Nobody can make me."

"Oh, can't they?" said he. "I can, then, and I mean to. If you refuse to do it, I shall believe
you're in love with Sir Lionel yourself."

"I don't care what you believe," I flung at him. "There's no shame in saying I like Sir Lionel
too well and respect him too much to have any hand in making him miserable all the rest of
his life."

"Do you insinuate that marrying my aunt would make him miserable?" Dick wanted to know.

"I don't insinuate. I assert," said I. And by that time I was in such a temper, and my nerves
had so gone to bits that I didn't know, and cared less, what I was saying. I went on and told
Dick exactly what I thought of Mrs. Senter, and that for a loyal, true sort of man like Sir
Lionel it would be better to die at once than have her for his wife--for that would be death,
too, only slow and lingering. Dick was white with fury, but I hardly noticed then, for I was
seeing red.

"If you call her deceitful, what are you?" he sputtered.

"I'm neither here nor there," said I.

"Certainly you won't be here long, or where Pendragon is," said he. "I wouldn't marry you now,
if you'd have me. You're nothing more or less than an adventuress."

"And you're a blackmailer," I mentioned, because I'd gone back to primitive passions, like
Eve's, or a Brittany fishwife's.

"That's a lie," he answered politely, "because blackmailers only threaten; I'm going to perform.
It's all up with you."

"I don't care for myself," said I. But, as you know, that was only partly true.

Then for a minute Dick seemed to repent. "No good losing our tempers like this," he said. "Take
back your insults to my aunt, who is the best pal I ever had--though that's not saying much--and
speak a good word for her to Sir Lionel, whom she really loves, and I'll let you off."

"I'd have my tongue cut out first," I answered.

"Is that your last word?" he persisted.

"Yes," said I.

"Very well, then," said he, "you'll be sorrier for this than you ever were for anything in
your life." And he stamped away, leaving me alone.

I flew up to my room, because I wasn't going to run the risk of his bringing Sir Lionel in
and telling him everything before me. So here I am, and that's all; except that Emily has come
to my door to say her brother wants to know if I can be ready to start in twenty minutes.

Newcastle, Night

We're back in our rooms at the County Hotel, and I am dazed with the mystery of what is going
on. I was ready in twenty minutes; and all the automobiles that brought us yesterday were waiting
to take us away again. When I came down, Mrs. Norton and Mrs. Senter were in our car; Sir Lionel,
cool but polite, prepared to help me in, standing by. He has great control over his features,
but I didn't think, if he had heard Dick's story, and intended to shed me at the nearest railway
station (not to make a scandal at Bamborough), he could be looking as unmoved as that.

No Dick was in sight. Naturally, I didn't ask for him, but perhaps my eye moved wildly round,
for Mrs. Senter read its question, and answered it in a voice like insufficiently sweetened
lemonade:

"Your Dick, dear child, has had another urgent summons to his mother's side, and won't be with
us to-day. His last words were that you would understand, so I suppose he explained more to
you than to me. But you are privileged."

I could have boxed her ears, hard.

Emily went on, in her fussy way, to make things clear to my intellect by adding that our host
had kindly sent Mr. Burden to the nearest railway station in his own fastest motor, as it seemed
he had just time to catch a train leaving almost immediately.

I didn't know what to make of it all, and don't now. Whether a telegram from the invalid mother
did really come in the nick of time to save me, like Abraham's ram that caught in the bushes
at the last minute; or whether this sudden dash to Scotland is a deep-dyed plot; or whether
he isn't going, really, but means to stop and spy on me disguised as a chauffeur or a performing
bear--or what, I can't guess.

All I do know is that, so far, Sir Lionel's manner is unchanged. Perhaps Dick left a note with
Mrs. Senter, which she is to put into Sir L.'s hand at an appropriate moment? He may seem altered
at dinner, to which I must go down soon; or he may send for me and have it out during the evening.
I'll add a line before we get off to-morrow morning.

September 10th. 8.45 A.M.

We're just going. He seems the same as ever. I'm lost in it! I'll post this downstairs. Please
write at once to Graylees; for if I am sent away before, I'll ask to have letters forwarded
to my own address.

Your

Audrie.

XXXVII

MRS. SENTER TO HER NEPHEW, DICK BURDEN, AT GLEN LACHLAN, N. B.

Newcastle, September 10th 8 A.M.

You might have told me what was up. Is your mother really ill? Am anxious and puzzled. Don't
think you play fair. Wire, Midland Hotel, Bradford.

Gwen.

XXXVIII

DICK BURDEN TO HIS AUNT, MRS. SENTER, MIDLAND HOTEL, BRADFORD

Glenlachlan, September 10th 8 P.M.

Mother not ill. You will know everything to-morrow or day after.

Dick.

XXXIX

AUDRIE BRENDON TO HER MOTHER

Midland Hotel, Bradford, September 11th

Beloved One: Situation unchanged. I know now how you felt when you had nervous prostration.
However, I'm not going to have it, so don't worry.

If I had been in a state of mind to enjoy it fully, this would have been a wonderful day. But
I don't suppose Damocles enjoyed himself much, even if they brought him delicious things to
eat and drink, and rich jewels, and the kind of cigarettes he'd always longed for, yet never
could afford to buy--knowing that any instant it might be the hair's time to break.

I don't believe he could have done justice to beautiful Durham Cathedral and the famous bridge;
or splendid Richmond Castle on its height above the Swale; or the exhilarating North Road;
or charming Ripon; or even the exquisite, almost heart-breaking beauty of ruined Fountains
Abbey, by the little river that sings its dirge in music sweeter than harp or violin. No, he
couldn't have put his soul into his eyes for them, and I didn't. I was almost sorry that we
were to go on and see Harrogate and the Strid and Bolton Abbey, because in my restlessness
I didn't feel intelligent enough to appreciate anything. I could only be dully thankful that
the sword hadn't pierced me yet; but I wanted to be alone, and shut my eyes, and not have to
talk, especially to Mrs. Norton.

Dimly I realized that Harrogate seemed a very pretty place, where it might be amusing to stay,
and take baths and nice walks, and listen to music; and my bodily eyes saw well enough how
lovely was the way through Niddersdale and Ilkley to Pately Bridge, where we had to get out
and walk through enchanted woods to the foaming cauldron of the Strid. The water, swollen by
rain, raced over its rocks below the crags of the tragic jump, like a white horse running away,
mad with unreasoning terror. Nevertheless, my bodily eyes were only glass windows which my
spirit had deserted. It left them blank still, at Bolton Abbey, which is poetically beautiful
(though not as lovable as Fountains), on, up the great brown hill of Barden Moor, through Skipton,
where, in the castle, legend says Fair Rosamond lived; until--Haworth. There--before we came
to the steep, straight hill leading up to the bleak and huddled townlet bitten out of the moor,
my spirit rushed to the windows. The voices of Charlotte Brontë and her sister Emily called
it back, and it obeyed at a word, though all the beauty of wooded hills and fleeting streams
had vanished, as if frightened by the cold, relentless winds of the high moorland.

Rain had begun to fall. The sky was leaden, the sharp hill muddy; everything seemed to combine
in giving an effect of grimness, as the car forged steadily up, up toward the poor home the
Brontës loved.

Isn't it a beautiful miracle, the banishing of black darkness by the clear light of genius?
It was that light which had lured us away from all the charms of nature to a region of ugliness,
even of squalor. The Brontës had lived there. They had pined for Haworth when away. They had
thought there, worked there, the wondrous sisters; they had illuminated the mean place, and
made it a lodestar for the world.

When we reached the top of the hill (which was almost like reaching a ceiling after climbing
the side of a hideous brown-painted wall), I forgot my own troubles in thinking of the Brontës'
tragedy of poverty, disappointment, and death.

We were in a poor street of a peculiarly depressing village, and could not even see the moor
that had given the Brontë girls inspiration, though we knew it must stretch beyond. Even in
bright sunshine there could be no beauty in Haworth; but under that leaden sky, in the thick
mist of rain, the poor stone houses lining the way, the sordid, unattractive shops were positively
repellent. All that was not so dark a gray as to look black was dull brown; and not a single
window-pane had a gleam of intelligence for the unwelcome strangers. I could imagine no merriment
in Haworth, nor any sound of laughter; yet the Brontës were happy when they were children--at
least, they thought they were; but it would be too tragic if children didn't think themselves
happy.

There was the Black Bull Inn, where wretched Bramwell Brontë used to carouse. Poor, weak vain-glorious
fellow! I never pitied him till I saw that gloomy stone box which meant "seeing life" to him.
There was the museum where the Brontë relics are kept--but we delayed going in that we might
see the old parsonage first, the shrine where the preserved relics had once made "home." Oh,
mother, the sadness of it, tucked away among the crowding tombstones, all gray-brown together,
among weeds and early falling leaves! Here already it was autumn; and though I could fancy
a pale, frosty spring, and a white, ice-bound winter, my imagination could conjure up no richness
of summer.

The gravestones crowding the gray old house in the churchyard, pushing it back toward the moor,
were thick as an army on parade--a sad, starved army, where dying soldiers lean on each other
for support; and the parsonage, shadowed by dripping trees, was plain and uncompromising as
a sermon that warns you not to love the world or you will spend eternity in hell. But behind--just
beyond the wall--billowed the moor, monotonous yet majestic, the scene that called to Emily
and Charlotte Brontë's hearts, always, when they were far away.

My heart contracted as I thought of them there; and when we'd walked back to the village street,
and been admitted to the museum, I was on the point of crying--not for myself, but with the
choked grief one might have on opening a box of old letters from a loved, dead friend. It is
the most intimate, touching little jumble of pathetic souvenirs you ever saw in a museum; more
like treasures guarded by near relations than a collection for public eyes to see; but that
makes the poignant charm of it. I could have sobbed on a pink print frock with a cape, such
as Jane Eyre might have worn at Thornfield, and on bits of unfinished needlework, simple lace
collars, and water-colour sketches with which Charlotte tried to brighten the walls of her
austere home. There was the poor dear's wedding shawl, and a little checked silk dress of which
I'm sure she was innocently proud; a few fantastic drawings of Bramwell's; a letter or two
from the sisters; and a picture of the Reverend Carus Wilson, who was supposed to be Mr. Brocklehurst;
just the rather handsome, well-fed, self-satisfied man you would expect him to be.

I think, dear, that Haworth has done me good, and helped me to be brave. Again and again I
turned, when we'd left, to look back at the church tower, and try to gather some of the Brontë
courage before we slipped away down many a dark hill toward Bradford, as night gathered us in.

I may need all the courage that I have borrowed and cashed in advance, because suspense is
worse than the pain of any blow.