But Æneas came on, shaking his spear that was like unto a tree, and said, "Why delayest thou,
O Turnus? Why drawest thou back? Fly now if thou canst through the air, or hide thyself in
the earth." And Turnus made answer, "I fear not thy threats, but the Gods and Jupiter, that
are against me this day." And as he spake he saw-a great stone which lay hard by, the landmark
of a field. Scarce could twelve chosen men, such as men are now, lift it on their shoulders.
This he caught from the earth and cast it at his enemy, running forward as he cast. But he
knew not, so troubled was he in his soul, that he ran or that he cast, for his knees tottered
beneath him and his blood grew cold with fear. And the stone fell short, nor reached the mark.
Even as in a dream, when dull sleep is on the eyes of a man, he would fain run but cannot,
for his strength faileth him, neither cometh there any voice when he would speak; so it fared
with Turnus. For he looked to the Latins and to the city, and saw the dreadful spear approach,
nor knew how he might fly, neither how he might fight, and could not spy anywhere his chariot
or his sister. And all the while Æneas shook his spear and waited that his aim should be sure.
And at the last he threw it with all his might. Even as a whirlwind it flew, and brake through
the seven folds of the shield and pierced the thigh. And Turnus dropped with his knee bent
to the ground. And all the Latins groaned aloud to see him fall. Then he entreated Æneas, saying,
"I have deserved my fate. Take thou that which thou hast won. Yet perchance thou mayest have
pity on the old man, my father, even Daunus, for such an one was thy father Anchises, and give
me back to my own people, if it be but my body that thou givest. Yet hast thou conquered, and
the Latins have seen me beg my life of thee, and Lavinia is thine. Therefore I pray thee, stay
now thy wrath." Then for a while Æneas stood doubting; aye, and might have spared the man,
when lo! he spied upon his shoulders the belt of Pallas, whom he had slain. And his wrath was
greatly kindled, and he cried with a dreadful voice, "Shalt thou who art clothed with the spoils
of my friends escape me? 'Tis Pallas slays thee with this wound, and takes vengeance on thy
accursed blood." And as he spake he drave the steel into his breast. And with a groan the wrathful
spirit passed into darkness.

       *       *       *       *       *

According to the old legends Æneas wedded the fair Lavinia, founded his city of Lavinium, and
ruled over it for three years. Then in a battle with the Rutulians, or some other Italian people,
he disappeared; and as his body was not found after the conflict was over, it was believed
that the Gods had taken him up to heaven. His son Ascanius peacefully succeeded him, and removed
the capital of his kingdom to Alba Longa, which city again, after the lapse of centuries, gave
birth to mighty Rome.

END OF VOLUME III