This courageous work is written in a style which is the man--for Buffon's saying, seldom true,
applies here to the letter. It is written as Carlyle wrote, not merely with the brain, but
with the whole soul and the whole body of the man, and in such a vivid manner that one can
without much effort imagine the eager gesticulation which now and then underlines, interprets,
despises, argues, denies, and above all asserts. In his absolute subservience to the matter
in hand this manner of writing has its great precedent in Santa Teresa. The differences, and
they are considerable, are not of art, absent in either case, but of nature. They are such
deep and obvious differences as obtain between the devout, ignorant, graceful nun of sixteenth-century
Avila and the free-thinking, learned, wilful professor of twentieth-century Salamanca. In the
one case, as in the other, the language is the most direct and simple required. It is also
the least literary and the most popular. Unamuno, who lives in close touch with the people,
has enriched the Spanish literary language by returning to it many a popular term. His vocabulary
abounds in racy words of the soil, and his writings gain from them an almost peasant-like pith
and directness which suits his own Basque primitive nature. His expression occurs simultaneously
with the thoughts and feelings to be expressed, the flow of which, but loosely controlled by
the critical mind, often breaks through the meshes of established diction and gives birth to
new forms created under the pressure of the moment. This feature Unamuno has also in common
with Santa Teresa, but what in the Saint was a self-ignorant charm becomes in Unamuno a deliberate
manner inspired, partly by an acute sense of the symbolical and psychological value of word-connections,
partly by that genuine need for expansion of the language which all true original thinkers
or "feelers" must experience, but partly also by an acquired habit of juggling with words which
is but natural in a philologist endowed with a vigorous imagination. Unamuno revels in words.
He positively enjoys stretching them beyond their usual meaning, twisting them, composing,
opposing, and transposing them in all sorts of possible ways. This game--not wholly unrewarded
now and then by striking intellectual finds--seems to be the only relaxation which he allows
his usually austere mind. It certainly is the only light feature of a style the merit of which
lies in its being the close-fitting expression of a great mind earnestly concentrated on a
great idea.

       *       *       *       *       *

The earnestness, the intensity, and the oneness of his predominant passion are the main cause
of the strength of Unamuno's philosophic work. They remain his main asset, yet become also
the principal cause of his weakness, as a creative artist. Great art can only flourish in the
temperate zone of the passions, on the return journey from the torrid. Unamuno, as a creator,
has none of the failings of those artists who have never felt deeply. But he does show the
limitations of those artists who cannot cool down. And the most striking of them is that at
bottom he is seldom able to put himself in a purely esthetical mood. In this, as in many other
features, Unamuno curiously resembles Wordsworth--whom, by the way, he is one of the few Spaniards
to read and appreciate.[1] Like him, Unamuno is an essentially purposeful and utilitarian mind.
Of the two qualities which the work of art requires for its inception--earnestness and detachment--both
Unamuno and Wordsworth possess the first; both are deficient in the second. Their interest
in their respective leading thought--survival in the first, virtue in the second--is too direct,
too pressing, to allow them the "distance" necessary for artistic work. Both are urged to work
by a lofty utilitarianism--the search for God through the individual soul in Unamuno, the search
for God through the social soul in Wordsworth--so that their thoughts and sensations are polarized
and their spirit loses that impartial transparence for nature's lights without which no great
art is possible. Once suggested, this parallel is too rich in sidelights to be lightly dropped.
This single-mindedness which distinguishes them explains that both should have consciously
or unconsciously chosen a life of semi-seclusion, for Unamuno lives in Salamanca very much
as Wordsworth lived in the Lake District--

                       in a still retreat
    Sheltered, but not to social duties lost,

hence in both a certain proclivity towards ploughing a solitary furrow and becoming self-centred.
There are no doubt important differences. The Englishman's sense of nature is both keener and
more concrete; while the Spaniard's knowledge of human nature is not barred by the subtle inhibitions
and innate limitations which tend to blind its more unpleasant aspects to the eye of the Englishman.
There is more courage and passion in the Spaniard; more harmony and goodwill in the Englishman;
the one is more like fire, the other like light. For Wordsworth, a poem is above all an essay,
a means for conveying a lesson in forcible and easily remembered terms to those who are in
need of improvement. For Unamuno, a poem or a novel (and he holds that a novel is but a poem)
is the outpouring of a man's passion, the overflow of the heart which cannot help itself and
lets go. And it may be that the essential difference between the two is to be found in this
difference between their respective purposes: Unamuno's purpose is more intimately personal
and individual; Wordsworth's is more social and objective. Thus both miss the temperate zone,
where emotion takes shape into the moulds of art; but while Wordsworth is driven by his ideal
of social service this side of it, into the cold light of both moral and intellectual self-control,
Unamuno remains beyond, where the molten metal is too near the fire of passion, and cannot
cool down into shape.

Unamuno is therefore not unlike Wordsworth in the insufficiency of his sense of form. We have
just seen the essential cause of this insufficiency to lie in the nonesthetical attitude of
his mind, and we have tried to show one of the roots of such an attitude in the very loftiness
and earnestness of his purpose. Yet, there are others, for living nature is many-rooted as
it is many-branched. It cannot be doubted that a certain refractoriness to form is a typical
feature of the Basque character. The sense of form is closely in sympathy with the feminine
element in human nature, and the Basque race is strongly masculine. The predominance of the
masculine element--strength without grace--is as typical of Unamuno as it is of Wordsworth.
The literary gifts which might for the sake of synthesis be symbolized in a smile are absent
in both. There is as little humour in the one as in the other. Humour, however, sometimes occurs
in Unamuno, but only in his ill-humoured moments, and then with a curious bite of its own which
adds an unconscious element to its comic effect. Grace only visits them in moments of inspiration,
and then it is of a noble character, enhanced as it is by the ever-present gift of strength.
And as for the sense for rhythm and music, both Unamuno and Wordsworth seem to be limited to
the most vigorous and masculine gaits. This feature is particularly pronounced in Unamuno,
for while Wordsworth is painstaking, all-observant, and too good a "teacher" to underestimate
the importance of pleasure in man's progress, Unamuno knows no compromise. His aim is not to
please but to strike, and he deliberately seeks the naked, the forceful, even the brutal word
for truth. There is in him, however, a cause of formlessness from which Wordsworth is free--namely,
an eagerness for sincerity and veracity which brushes aside all preparation, ordering or planning
of ideas as suspect of "dishing up," intellectual trickery, and juggling with spontaneous truths.

       *       *       *       *       *

Such qualities--both the positive and the negative--are apparent in his poetry. In it, the
appeal of force and sincerity is usually stronger than that of art. This is particularly the
case in his first volume (Poesías, 1907), in which a lofty inspiration, a noble attitude of
mind, a rich and racy vocabulary, a keen insight into the spirit of places, and above all the
overflowing vitality of a strong man in the force of ripeness, contend against the still awkward
gait of the Basque and a certain rebelliousness of rhyme. The dough of the poetic language
is here seen heavily pounded by a powerful hand, bent on reducing its angularities and on improving
its plasticity. Nor do we need to wait for further works in order to enjoy the reward of such
efforts, for it is attained in this very volume more than once, as for instance in Muere en
el mar el ave que voló del nido, a beautiful poem in which emotion and thought are happily
blended into exquisite form.

In his last poem, El Cristo de Velázquez (1920), Unamuno undertakes the task of giving a poetical
rendering of his tragic sense of life, in the form of a meditation on the Christ of Velázquez,
the beautiful and pathetic picture in the Prado. Why Velázquez's and not Christ himself? The
fact is that, though in his references to actual forms, Unamuno closely follows Velázquez's
picture, the spiritual interpretation of it which he develops as the poem unfolds itself is
wholly personal. It would be difficult to find two great Spaniards wider apart than Unamuno
and Velázquez, for if Unamuno is the very incarnation of the masculine spirit of the North--all
strength and substance--Velázquez is the image of the feminine spirit of the South--all grace
and form. Velázquez is a limpid mirror, with a human depth, yet a mirror. That Unamuno has
departed from the image of Christ which the great Sevillian reflected on his immortal canvas
was therefore to be expected. But then Unamuno has, while speaking of Don Quixote, whom he
has also freely and personally interpreted,[2] taken great care to point out that a work of
art is, for each of us, all that we see in it. And, moreover, Unamuno has not so much departed
from Velázquez's image of Christ as delved into its depths, expanded, enlarged it, or, if you
prefer, seen in its limpid surface the immense figure of his own inner Christ. However free
and unorthodox in its wide scope of images and ideas, the poem is in its form a regular meditation
in the manner approved by the Catholic Church, and it is therefore meet that it should rise
from a concrete, tangible object as it is recommended to the faithful. To this concrete character
of its origin, the poem owes much of its suggestiveness, as witness the following passage quoted
here, with a translation sadly unworthy of the original, as being the clearest link between
the poetical meditation and the main thought that underlies all the work and the life of Unamuno.

NUBE NEGRA

    O es que una nube negra de los cielos
    ese negror le dió a tu cabellera
    de nazareno, cual de mustio sauce
    de una noche sin luna sobre el río?
    ¿Es la sombra del ala sin perfiles
    del ángel de la nada negadora,
    de Luzbel, que en su caída inacabable
    --fondo no puede dar--su eterna cuita
    clava en tu frente, en tu razón? ¿Se vela,
    el claro Verbo en Ti con esa nube,
    negra cual de Luzbel las negras alas,
    mientras brilla el Amor, todo desnudo,
    con tu desnudo pecho por cendal?

BLACK CLOUD

    Or was it then that a black cloud from heaven
    Such blackness gave to your Nazarene's hair,
    As of a languid willow o'er the river
    Brooding in moonless night? Is it the shadow
    Of the profileless wing of Luzbel, the Angel
    Of denying nothingness, endlessly falling--
    Bottom he ne'er can touch--whose grief eternal
    He nails on to Thy forehead, to Thy reason?
    Is the clear Word in Thee with that cloud veiled
    --A cloud as black as the black wings of Luzbel--
    While Love shines naked within Thy naked breast?

The poem, despite its length, easily maintains this lofty level throughout, and if he had written
nothing else Unamuno would still remain as having given to Spanish letters the noblest and
most sustained lyrical flight in the language. It abounds in passages of ample beauty and often
strikes a note of primitive strength in the true Old Testament style. It is most distinctively
a poem in a major key, in a group with Paradise Lost and The Excursion, but in a tone halfway
between the two; and, as coming from the most Northern-minded and substantial poet that Spain
ever had, wholly free from that tendency towards grandiloquence and Ciceronian drapery which
blighted previous similar efforts in Spain. Its weakness lies in a certain monotony due to
the interplay of Unamuno's two main limitations as an artist: the absolute surrender to one
dominant thought and a certain deficiency of form bordering here on contempt. The plan is but
a loose sequence of meditations on successive aspects of Christ as suggested by images or advocations
of His divine person, or even of parts of His human body: Lion, Bull, Lily, Sword, Crown, Head,
Knees. Each meditation is treated in a period of blank verse, usually of a beautiful texture,
the splendour of which is due less to actual images than to the inner vigour of ideas and the
eagerness with which even the simplest facts are interpreted into significant symbols. Yet,
sometimes, this blank verse becomes hard and stony under the stubborn hammering of a too insistent
mind, and the device of ending each meditation with a line accented on its last syllable tends
but to increase the monotony of the whole.

Blank verse is never the best medium for poets of a strong masculine inspiration, for it does
not sufficiently correct their usual deficiency in form. Such poets are usually at their best
when they bind themselves to the discipline of existing forms and particularly when they limit
the movements of their muse to the "sonnet's scanty plot of ground." Unamuno's best poetry,
as Wordsworth's, is in his sonnets. His Rosario de Sonetos Líricos, published in 1911, contains
some of the finest sonnets in the Spanish language. There is variety in this volume--more at
least than is usual in Unamuno: from comments on events of local politics (sonnet lii.) which
savour of the more prosaic side of Wordsworth, to meditations on space and time such as that
sonnet xxxvii., so reminiscent of Shelley's Ozymandias of Egypt; from a suggestive homily to
a "Don Juan of Ideas" whose thirst for knowledge is "not love of truth, but intellectual lust,"
and whose "thought is therefore sterile" (sonnet cvii.), to an exquisitely rendered moonlight
love scene (sonnet civ.). The author's main theme itself, which of course occupies a prominent
part in the series, appears treated under many different lights and in genuinely poetical moods
which truly do justice to the inherent wealth of poetical inspiration which it contains. Many
a sonnet might be quoted here, and in particular that sombre and fateful poem Nihil Novum sub
Sole (cxxiii.), which defeats its own theme by the striking originality of its inspiration.

So active, so positive is the inspiration of this poetry that the question of outside influences
does not even arise. Unamuno is probably the Spanish contemporary poet whose manner owes least,
if anything at all, to modern developments of poetry such as those which take their source
in Baudelaire and Verlaine. These over-sensitive and over-refined artists have no doubt enriched
the sensuous, the formal, the sentimental, even the intellectual aspects of verse with an admirable
variety of exquisite shades, lacking which most poetry seems old-fashioned to the fastidious
palate of modern men. Unamuno is too genuine a representative of the spiritual and masculine
variety of Spanish genius, ever impervious to French, and generally, to intellectual, influences,
to be affected by the esthetic excellence of this art. Yet, for all his disregard of the modern
resources which it adds to the poetic craft, Unamuno loses none of his modernity. He is indeed
more than modern. When, as he often does, he strikes the true poetic note, he is outside time.
His appeal is not in complexity but in strength. He is not refined: he is final.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the Preface to his Tres Novelas Ejemplares y un Prólogo (1921) Unamuno says: " ... novelist--that
is, poet ... a novel--that is, a poem." Thus, with characteristic decision, he sides with the
lyrical conception of the novel. There is of course an infinite variety of types of novels.
But they can probably all be reduced to two classes--i.e., the dramatic or objective, and the
lyrical or subjective, according to the mood or inspiration which predominates in them. The
present trend of the world points towards the dramatic or objective type. This type is more
in tune with the detached and scientific character of the age. The novel is often nowadays
considered as a document, a "slice of life," a piece of information, a literary photograph
representing places and people which purse or time prevents us from seeing with our own eyes.
It is obvious, given what we now know of him, that such a view of the novel cannot appeal to
Unamuno. He is a utilitarian, but not of worldly utilities. His utilitarianism transcends our
daily wants and seeks to provide for our eternal ones. He is, moreover, a mind whose workings
turn in spiral form towards a central idea and therefore feels an instinctive antagonism to
the dispersive habits of thought and sensation which such detailed observation of life usually
entails. For at bottom the opposition between the lyrical and the dramatic novel may be reduced
to that between the poet and the dramatist. Both the dramatist and the poet create in order
to link up their soul and the world in one complete circle of experience, but this circle is
travelled in opposite directions. The poet goes inwards first, then out to nature full of his
inner experience, and back home. The dramatist goes outwards first, then comes back to himself,
his harvest of wisdom gathered in reality. It is the recognition of his own lyrical inward-looking
nature which makes Unamuno pronounce the identity of the novel and the poem.

Whatever we may think of it as a general theory, there is little doubt that this opinion is
in the main sound in so far as it refers to Unamuno's own work. His novels are created within.
They are--and their author is the first to declare it so--novels which happen in the kingdom
of the spirit. Outward points of reference in time and space are sparingly given--in fact,
reduced to a bare minimum. In some of them, as for instance Niebla (1914), the name of the
town in which the action takes place is not given, and such scanty references to the topography
and general features as are supplied would equally apply to any other provincial town of Spain.
Action, in the current sense of the word, is correspondingly simplified, since the material
and local elements on which it usually exerts itself are schematized, and in their turn made,
as it were, spiritual. Thus a street, a river of colour for some, for others a series of accurately
described shops and dwellings, becomes in Unamuno (see Niebla) a loom where the passions and
desires of men and women cross and recross each other and weave the cloth of daily life. Even
the physical description of characters is reduced to a standard of utmost simplicity. So that,
in fine, Unamuno's novels, by eliminating all other material, appear, if the boldness of the
metaphor be permitted, as the spiritual skeletons of novels, conflicts between souls.

Nor is this the last stage in his deepening and narrowing of the creative furrow. For these
souls are in their turn concentrated so that the whole of their vitality burns into one passion.
If a somewhat fanciful comparison from another art may throw any light on this feature of his
work we might say that his characters are to those of Galdós, for instance, as counterpoint
music to the complex modern symphony. Joaquín Monegro, the true hero of his Abel Sánchez (1917),
is the personification of hatred. Raquel in Dos Madres[1] and Catalina in El Marqués de Lumbría[1]
are two widely different but vigorous, almost barbarous, "maternities." Alejandro, the hero
of his powerful Nada Menos que Todo un Hombre,[3] is masculine will, pure and unconquerable,
save by death. Further still, in most if not all of his main characters, we can trace the dominant
passion which is their whole being to a mere variety of the one and only passion which obsesses
Unamuno himself, the hunger for life, a full life, here and after. Here is, for instance, Abel
Sánchez, a sombre study of hatred, a modern paraphrase of the story of Cain. Joaquín Monegro,
the Cain of the novel, has been reading Byron's poem, and writes in his diary: "It was when
I read how Lucifer declared to Cain that he, Cain, was immortal, that I began in terror to
wonder whether I also was immortal and whether in me would be also immortal my hatred. 'Have
I a soul?' I said to myself then. 'Is this my hatred soul?' And I came to think that it could
not be otherwise, that such a hatred cannot be the function of a body.... A corruptible organism
could not hate as I hated."

Thus Joaquín Monegro, like every other main character in his work, appears preoccupied by the
same central preoccupation of Unamuno. In one word, all Unamuno's characters are but incarnations
of himself. But that is what we expected to find in a lyrical novelist.

There are critics who conclude from this observation that these characters do not exist, that
they are mere arguments on legs, personified ideas. Here and there, in Unamuno's novels, there
are passages which lend some colour of plausibility to this view. Yet, it is in my opinion
mistaken. Unamuno's characters may be schematized, stripped of their complexities, reduced
to the mainspring of their nature; they may, moreover, reveal mainsprings made of the same
steel. But that they are alive no one could deny who has a sense for life. The very restraint
in the use of physical details which Unamuno has made a feature of his creative work may have
led his critics to forget the intensity of those--admirably chosen--which are given. It is
significant that the eyes play an important part in his description of characters and in his
narrative too. His sense of the interpenetration of body and soul is so deep that he does not
for one moment let us forget how bodily his "souls" are, and how pregnant with spiritual significance
is every one of their words and gestures. No. These characters are not arguments on legs. They
truly are men and women of "flesh and bones," human, terribly human.

In thus emphasizing a particular feature in their nature, Unamuno imparts to his creations
a certain deformity which savours of romantic days. Yet Unamuno is not a romanticist, mainly
because Romanticism was an esthetic attitude, and his attitude is seldom purely esthetic. For
all their show of passion, true Romanticists seldom gave their real selves to their art. They
created a stage double of their own selves for public exhibitions. They sought the picturesque.
Their form was lyrical, but their substance was dramatic. Unamuno, on the contrary, even though
he often seeks expression in dramatic form, is essentially lyrical. And if he is always intense,
he never is exuberant. He follows the Spanish tradition for restraint--for there is one, along
its opposite tradition for grandiloquence--and, true to the spirit of it, he seeks the maximum
of effect through the minimum of means. Then, he never shouts. Here is an example of his quiet
method, the rhythmical beauty of which is unfortunately almost untranslatable:

"Y así pasaron días de llanto y de negrura hasta que las lágrimas fueron yéndose hacia adentro
y la casa fué derritiendo los negrores" (Niebla) (And thus, days of weeping and mourning went
by, till the tears began to flow inward and the blackness to melt in the home).

       *       *       *       *       *

Miguel de Unamuno is to-day the greatest literary figure of Spain. Baroja may surpass him in
variety of external experience, Azorín in delicate art, Ortega y Gasset in philosophical subtlety,
Ayala in intellectual elegance, Valle Inclán in rhythmical grace. Even in vitality he may have
to yield the first place to that over-whelming athlete of literature, Blasco Ibáñez. But Unamuno
is head and shoulders above them all in the highness of his purpose and in the earnestness
and loyalty with which, Quixote-like, he has served all through his life his unattainable Dulcinea.
Then there is another and most important reason which explains his position as first, princeps,
of Spanish letters, and it is that Unamuno, by the cross which he has chosen to bear, incarnates
the spirit of modern Spain. His eternal conflict between faith and reason, between life and
thought, between spirit and intellect, between heaven and civilization, is the conflict of
Spain herself. A border country, like Russia, in which East and West mix their spiritual waters,
Spain wavers between two life-philosophies and cannot rest. In Russia, this conflict emerges
in literature during the nineteenth century, when Dostoievsky and Tolstoy stand for the East
while Turgeniev becomes the West's advocate. In Spain, a country less articulate, and, moreover,
a country in which the blending of East and West is more intimate, for both found a common
solvent in centuries of Latin civilization, the conflict is less clear, less on the surface.
To-day Ortega y Gasset is our Turgeniev--not without mixture. Unamuno is our Dostoievsky, but
painfully aware of the strength of the other side within him, and full of misgivings. Nor is
it sure that when we speak of East in this connection we really mean East. There is a third
country in Europe in which the "Eastern" view is as forcibly put and as deeply understood as
the "Western," a third border country--England. England, particularly in those of her racial
elements conventionally named Celtic, is closely in sympathy with the "East." Ireland is almost
purely "Eastern" in this respect. That is perhaps why Unamuno feels so strong an attraction
for the English language and its literature, and why, even to this day, he follows so closely
the movements of English thought.[4] For his own nature, of a human being astride two enemy
ideals, draws him instinctively towards minds equally placed in opposition, yet a co-operating
opposition, to progress. Thus Unamuno, whose literary qualities and defects make him a genuine
representative of the more masculine variety of the Spanish genius, becomes in his spiritual
life the true living symbol of his country and his time. And that he is great enough to bear
this incarnation is a sufficient measure of his greatness.

S. DE MADARIAGA.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] In what follows, I confess to refer not so much to the generally admitted opinion on Wordsworth
as to my own views on him and his poetry, which I tried to explain in my essay: "The Case of
Wordsworth" (Shelley and Calderón, and other Essays, Constable and Co., 1920).

[2] Vida de Don Quijote y Sancho, explicada y comentada, por M. de Unamuno: Madrid, Fernando
Fé, 1905.

[3] These three novels appeared together as Tres Novelas y un Prólogo Calpe, Madrid, 1921.

[4] "Me va interesando ese Dean Inge," he wrote to me last year.

AUTHOR'S PREFACE

I intended at first to write a short Prologue to this English translation of my Del Sentimiento
Trágico de la Vida, which has been undertaken by my friend Mr. J.E. Crawford Flitch. But upon
further consideration I have abandoned the idea, for I reflected that after all I wrote this
book not for Spaniards only, but for all civilized and Christian men--Christian in particular,
whether consciously so or not--of whatever country they may be.

Furthermore, if I were to set about writing an Introduction in the light of all that we see
and feel now, after the Great War, and, still more, of what we foresee and forefeel, I should
be led into writing yet another book. And that is a thing to be done with deliberation and
only after having better digested this terrible peace, which is nothing else but the war's
painful convalescence.

As for many years my spirit has been nourished upon the very core of English literature--evidence
of which the reader may discover in the following pages--the translator, in putting my Sentimiento
Trágico into English, has merely converted not a few of the thoughts and feelings therein expressed
back into their original form of expression. Or retranslated them, perhaps. Whereby they emerge
other than they originally were, for an idea does not pass from one language to another without
change.

The fact that this English translation has been carefully revised here, in my house in this
ancient city of Salamanca, by the translator and myself, implies not merely some guarantee
of exactitude, but also something more--namely, a correction, in certain respects, of the original.

The truth is that, being an incorrigible Spaniard, I am naturally given to a kind of extemporization
and to neglectfulness of a filed niceness in my works. For this reason my original work--and
likewise the Italian and French translations of it--issued from the press with a certain number
of errors, obscurities, and faulty references. The labour which my friend Mr. J.E. Crawford
Flitch fortunately imposed upon me in making me revise his translation obliged me to correct
these errors, to clarify some obscurities, and to give greater exactitude to certain quotations
from foreign writers. Hence this English translation of my Sentimiento Trágico presents in
some ways a more purged and correct text than that of the original Spanish. This perhaps compensates
for what it may lose in the spontaneity of my Spanish thought, which at times, I believe, is
scarcely translatable.

It would advantage me greatly if this translation, in opening up to me a public of English-speaking
readers, should some day lead to my writing something addressed to and concerned with this
public. For just as a new friend enriches our spirit, not so much by what he gives us of himself,
as by what he causes us to discover in our own selves, something which, if we had never known
him, would have lain in us undeveloped, so it is with a new public. Perhaps there may be regions
in my own Spanish spirit--my Basque spirit, and therefore doubly Spanish--unexplored by myself,
some corner hitherto uncultivated, which I should have to cultivate in order to offer the flowers
and fruits of it to the peoples of English speech.

And now, no more.

God give my English readers that inextinguishable thirst for truth which I desire for myself.

MIGUEL DE UNAMUNO.

SALAMANCA, April, 1921.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRANSLATOR'S NOTE

Footnotes added by the Translator, other than those which merely supplement references to writers
or their works mentioned in the text, are distinguished by his initials.

I

THE MAN OF FLESH AND BONE

Homo sum; nihil humani a me alienum puto, said the Latin playwright. And I would rather say,
Nullum hominem a me alienum puto: I am a man; no other man do I deem a stranger. For to me
the adjective humanus is no less suspect than its abstract substantive humanitas, humanity.
Neither "the human" nor "humanity," neither the simple adjective nor the substantivized adjective,
but the concrete substantive--man. The man of flesh and bone; the man who is born, suffers,
and dies--above all, who dies; the man who eats and drinks and plays and sleeps and thinks
and wills; the man who is seen and heard; the brother, the real brother.

For there is another thing which is also called man, and he is the subject of not a few lucubrations,
more or less scientific. He is the legendary featherless biped, the zôon politikhon of Aristotle,
the social contractor of Rousseau, the homo economicus of the Manchester school, the homo sapiens
of Linnæus, or, if you like, the vertical mammal. A man neither of here nor there, neither
of this age nor of another, who has neither sex nor country, who is, in brief, merely an idea.
That is to say, a no-man.

The man we have to do with is the man of flesh and bone--I, you, reader of mine, the other
man yonder, all of us who walk solidly on the earth.

And this concrete man, this man of flesh and bone, is at once the subject and the supreme object
of all philosophy, whether certain self-styled philosophers like it or not.

In most of the histories of philosophy that I know, philosophic systems are presented to us
as if growing out of one another spontaneously, and their authors, the philosophers, appear
only as mere pretexts. The inner biography of the philosophers, of the men who philosophized,
occupies a secondary place. And yet it is precisely this inner biography that explains for
us most things.

It behoves us to say, before all, that philosophy lies closer to poetry than to science. All
philosophic systems which have been constructed as a supreme concord of the final results of
the individual sciences have in every age possessed much less consistency and life than those
which expressed the integral spiritual yearning of their authors.

And, though they concern us so greatly, and are, indeed, indispensable for our life and thought,
the sciences are in a certain sense more foreign to us than philosophy. They fulfil a more
objective end--that is to say, an end more external to ourselves. They are fundamentally a
matter of economics. A new scientific discovery, of the kind called theoretical, is, like a
mechanical discovery--that of the steam-engine, the telephone, the phonograph, or the aeroplane--a
thing which is useful for something else. Thus the telephone may be useful to us in enabling
us to communicate at a distance with the woman we love. But she, wherefore is she useful to
us? A man takes an electric tram to go to hear an opera, and asks himself, Which, in this case,
is the more useful, the tram or the opera?

Philosophy answers to our need of forming a complete and unitary conception of the world and
of life, and as a result of this conception, a feeling which gives birth to an inward attitude
and even to outward action. But the fact is that this feeling, instead of being a consequence
of this conception, is the cause of it. Our philosophy--that is, our mode of understanding
or not understanding the world and life--springs from our feeling towards life itself. And
life, like everything affective, has roots in subconsciousness, perhaps in unconsciousness.

It is not usually our ideas that make us optimists or pessimists, but it is our optimism or
our pessimism, of physiological or perhaps pathological origin, as much the one as the other,
that makes our ideas.

Man is said to be a reasoning animal. I do not know why he has not been defined as an affective
or feeling animal. Perhaps that which differentiates him from other animals is feeling rather
than reason. More often I have seen a cat reason than laugh or weep. Perhaps it weeps or laughs
inwardly--but then perhaps, also inwardly, the crab resolves equations of the second degree.

And thus, in a philosopher, what must needs most concern us is the man.

Take Kant, the man Immanuel Kant, who was born and lived at Königsberg, in the latter part
of the eighteenth century and the beginning of the nineteenth. In the philosophy of this man
Kant, a man of heart and head--that is to say, a man--there is a significant somersault, as
Kierkegaard, another man--and what a man!--would have said, the somersault from the Critique
of Pure Reason to the Critique of Practical Reason. He reconstructs in the latter what he destroyed
in the former, in spite of what those may say who do not see the man himself. After having
examined and pulverized with his analysis the traditional proofs of the existence of God, of
the Aristotelian God, who is the God corresponding to the zôon politikon, the abstract God,
the unmoved prime Mover, he reconstructs God anew; but the God of the conscience, the Author
of the moral order--the Lutheran God, in short. This transition of Kant exists already in embryo
in the Lutheran notion of faith.

The first God, the rational God, is the projection to the outward infinite of man as he is
by definition--that is to say, of the abstract man, of the man no-man; the other God, the God
of feeling and volition, is the projection to the inward infinite of man as he is by life,
of the concrete man, the man of flesh and bone.

Kant reconstructed with the heart that which with the head he had overthrown. And we know,
from the testimony of those who knew him and from his testimony in his letters and private
declarations, that the man Kant, the more or less selfish old bachelor who professed philosophy
at Königsberg at the end of the century of the Encyclopedia and the goddess of Reason, was
a man much preoccupied with the problem--I mean with the only real vital problem, the problem
that strikes at the very root of our being, the problem of our individual and personal destiny,
of the immortality of the soul. The man Kant was not resigned to die utterly. And because he
was not resigned to die utterly he made that leap, that immortal somersault,[5] from the one
Critique to the other.

Whosoever reads the Critique of Practical Reason carefully and without blinkers will see that,
in strict fact, the existence of God is therein deduced from the immortality of the soul, and
not the immortality of the soul from the existence of God. The categorical imperative leads
us to a moral postulate which necessitates in its turn, in the teleological or rather eschatological
order, the immortality of the soul, and in order to sustain this immortality God is introduced.
All the rest is the jugglery of the professional of philosophy.

The man Kant felt that morality was the basis of eschatology, but the professor of philosophy
inverted the terms.

Another professor, the professor and man William James, has somewhere said that for the generality
of men God is the provider of immortality. Yes, for the generality of men, including the man
Kant, the man James, and the man who writes these lines which you, reader, are reading.

Talking to a peasant one day, I proposed to him the hypothesis that there might indeed be a
God who governs heaven and earth, a Consciousness[6] of the Universe, but that for all that
the soul of every man may not be immortal in the traditional and concrete sense. He replied:
"Then wherefore God?" So answered, in the secret tribunal of their consciousness, the man Kant
and the man James. Only in their capacity as professors they were compelled to justify rationally
an attitude in itself so little rational. Which does not mean, of course, that the attitude
is absurd.

Hegel made famous his aphorism that all the rational is real and all the real rational; but
there are many of us who, unconvinced by Hegel, continue to believe that the real, the really
real, is irrational, that reason builds upon irrationalities. Hegel, a great framer of definitions,
attempted with definitions to reconstruct the universe, like that artillery sergeant who said
that cannon were made by taking a hole and enclosing it with steel.

Another man, the man Joseph Butler, the Anglican bishop who lived at the beginning of the eighteenth
century and whom Cardinal Newman declared to be the greatest man in the Anglican Church, wrote,
at the conclusion of the first chapter of his great work, The Analogy of Religion, the chapter
which treats of a future life, these pregnant words: "This credibility of a future life, which
has been here insisted upon, how little soever it may satisfy our curiosity, seems to answer
all the purposes of religion, in like manner as a demonstrative proof would. Indeed a proof,
even a demonstrative one, of a future life, would not be a proof of religion. For, that we
are to live hereafter, is just as reconcilable with the scheme of atheism, and as well to be
accounted for by it, as that we are now alive is: and therefore nothing can be more absurd
than to argue from that scheme that there can be no future state."

The man Butler, whose works were perhaps known to the man Kant, wished to save the belief in
the immortality of the soul, and with this object he made it independent of belief in God.
The first chapter of his Analogy treats, as I have said, of the future life, and the second
of the government of God by rewards and punishments. And the fact is that, fundamentally, the
good Anglican bishop deduces the existence of God from the immortality of the soul. And as
this deduction was the good Anglican bishop's starting-point, he had not to make that somersault
which at the close of the same century the good Lutheran philosopher had to make. Butler, the
bishop, was one man and Kant, the professor, another man.

To be a man is to be something concrete, unitary, and substantive; it is to be a thing--res.
Now we know what another man, the man Benedict Spinoza, that Portuguese Jew who was born and
lived in Holland in the middle of the seventeenth century, wrote about the nature of things.
The sixth proposition of Part III. of his Ethic states: unaquoeque res, quatenus in se est,
in suo esse perseverare conatur--that is, Everything, in so far as it is in itself, endeavours
to persist in its own being. Everything in so far as it is in itself--that is to say, in so
far as it is substance, for according to him substance is id quod in se est et per se concipitur--that
which is in itself and is conceived by itself. And in the following proposition, the seventh,
of the same part, he adds: conatus, quo unaquoeque res in suo esse perseverare conatur, nihil
est proeter ipsius rei actualem essentiam--that is, the endeavour wherewith everything endeavours
to persist in its own being is nothing but the actual essence of the thing itself. This means
that your essence, reader, mine, that of the man Spinoza, that of the man Butler, of the man
Kant, and of every man who is a man, is nothing but the endeavour, the effort, which he makes
to continue to be a man, not to die. That is to say that you, I, and Spinoza wish never to
die and that this longing of ours never to die is our actual essence. Nevertheless, this poor
Portuguese Jew, exiled in the mists of Holland, could never attain to believing in his own
personal immortality, and all his philosophy was but a consolation which he contrived for his
lack of faith. Just as other men have a pain in hand or foot, heart-ache or head-ache, so he
had God-ache. Unhappy man! And unhappy fellow-men!

And man, this thing, is he a thing? How absurd soever the question may appear, there are some
who have propounded it. Not long ago there went abroad a certain doctrine called Positivism,
which did much good and much ill. And among other ills that it wrought was the introduction
of a method of analysis whereby facts were pulverized, reduced to a dust of facts. Most of
the facts labelled as such by Positivism were really only fragments of facts. In psychology
its action was harmful. There were even scholastics meddling in literature--I will not say
philosophers meddling in poetry, because poet and philosopher are twin brothers, if not even
one and the same--who carried this Positivist psychological analysis into the novel and the
drama, where the main business is to give act and motion to concrete men, men of flesh and
bone, and by dint of studying states of consciousness, consciousness itself disappeared. The
same thing happened to them which is said often to happen in the examination and testing of
certain complicated, organic, living chemical compounds, when the reagents destroy the very
body which it was proposed to examine and all that is obtained is the products of its decomposition.

Taking as their starting-point the evident fact that contradictory states pass through our
consciousness, they did not succeed in envisaging consciousness itself, the "I." To ask a man
about his "I" is like asking him about his body. And note that in speaking of the "I," I speak
of the concrete and personal "I," not of the "I" of Fichte, but of Fichte himself, the man Fichte.

That which determines a man, that which makes him one man, one and not another, the man he
is and not the man he is not, is a principle of unity and a principle of continuity. A principle
of unity firstly in space, thanks to the body, and next in action and intention. When we walk,
one foot does not go forward and the other backward, nor, when we look, if we are normal, does
one eye look towards the north and the other towards the south. In each moment of our life
we entertain some purpose, and to this purpose the synergy of our actions is directed. Notwithstanding
the next moment we may change our purpose. And in a certain sense a man is so much the more
a man the more unitary his action. Some there are who throughout their whole life follow but
one single purpose, be it what it may.

Also a principle of continuity in time. Without entering upon a discussion--an unprofitable
discussion--as to whether I am or am not he who I was twenty years ago, it appears to me to
be indisputable that he who I am to-day derives, by a continuous series of states of consciousness,
from him who was in my body twenty years ago. Memory is the basis of individual personality,
just as tradition is the basis of the collective personality of a people. We live in memory
and by memory, and our spiritual life is at bottom simply the effort of our memory to persist,
to transform itself into hope, the effort of our past to transform itself into our future.

All this, I know well, is sheer platitude; but in going about in the world one meets men who
seem to have no feeling of their own personality. One of my best friends with whom I have walked
and talked every day for many years, whenever I spoke to him of this sense of one's own personality,
used to say: "But I have no sense of myself; I don't know what that is."

On a certain occasion this friend remarked to me: "I should like to be So-and-so" (naming someone),
and I said: "That is what I shall never be able to understand--that one should want to be someone
else. (To want to be someone else is to want to cease to be he who one is.) I understand that
one should wish to have what someone else has, his wealth or his knowledge; but to be someone
else, that is a thing I cannot comprehend." It has often been said that every man who has suffered
misfortunes prefers to be himself, even with his misfortunes, rather than to be someone else
without them. For unfortunate men, when they preserve their normality in their misfortune--that
is to say, when they endeavour to persist in their own being--prefer misfortune to non-existence.
For myself I can say that as a youth, and even as a child, I remained unmoved when shown the
most moving pictures of hell, for even then nothing appeared to me quite so horrible as nothingness
itself. It was a furious hunger of being that possessed me, an appetite for divinity, as one
of our ascetics has put it.[7]

To propose to a man that he should be someone else, that he should become someone else, is
to propose to him that he should cease to be himself. Everyone defends his own personality,
and only consents to a change in his mode of thinking or of feeling in so far as this change
is able to enter into the unity of his spirit and become involved in its continuity; in so
far as this change can harmonize and integrate itself with all the rest of his mode of being,
thinking and feeling, and can at the same time knit itself with his memories. Neither of a
man nor of a people--which is, in a certain sense, also a man--can a change be demanded which
breaks the unity and continuity of the person. A man can change greatly, almost completely
even, but the change must take place within his continuity.

It is true that in certain individuals there occur what are called changes of personality;
but these are pathological cases, and as such are studied by alienists. In these changes of
personality, memory, the basis of consciousness, is completely destroyed, and all that is left
to the sufferer as the substratum of his individual continuity, which has now ceased to be
personal, is the physical organism. For the subject who suffers it, such an infirmity is equivalent
to death--it is not equivalent to death only for those who expect to inherit his fortune, if
he possesses one! And this infirmity is nothing less than a revolution, a veritable revolution.

A disease is, in a certain sense, an organic dissociation; it is a rebellion of some element
or organ of the living body which breaks the vital synergy and seeks an end distinct from that
which the other elements co-ordinated with it seek. Its end, considered in itself--that is
to say, in the abstract--may be more elevated, more noble, more anything you like; but it is
different. To fly and breathe in the air may be better than to swim and breathe in the water;
but if the fins of a fish aimed at converting themselves into wings, the fish, as a fish, would
perish. And it is useless to say that it would end by becoming a bird, if in this becoming
there was not a process of continuity. I do not precisely know, but perhaps it may be possible
for a fish to engender a bird, or another fish more akin to a bird than itself; but a fish,
this fish, cannot itself and during its own lifetime become a bird.

Everything in me that conspires to break the unity and continuity of my life conspires to destroy
me and consequently to destroy itself. Every individual in a people who conspires to break
the spiritual unity and continuity of that people tends to destroy it and to destroy himself
as a part of that people. What if some other people is better than our own? Very possibly,
although perhaps we do not clearly understand what is meant by better or worse. Richer? Granted.
More cultured? Granted likewise. Happier? Well, happiness ... but still, let it pass! A conquering
people (or what is called conquering) while we are conquered? Well and good. All this is good--but
it is something different. And that is enough. Because for me the becoming other than I am,
the breaking of the unity and continuity of my life, is to cease to be he who I am--that is
to say, it is simply to cease to be. And that--no! Anything rather than that!

Another, you say, might play the part that I play as well or better? Another might fulfil my
function in society? Yes, but it would not be I.

"I, I, I, always I!" some reader will exclaim; "and who are you?" I might reply in the words
of Obermann, that tremendous man Obermann: "For the universe, nothing--for myself, everything";
but no, I would rather remind him of a doctrine of the man Kant--to wit, that we ought to think
of our fellow-men not as means but as ends. For the question does not touch me alone, it touches
you also, grumbling reader, it touches each and all. Singular judgments have the value of universal
judgments, the logicians say. The singular is not particular, it is universal.

Man is an end, not a means. All civilization addresses itself to man, to each man, to each
I. What is that idol, call it Humanity or call it what you like, to which all men and each
individual man must be sacrificed? For I sacrifice myself for my neighbours, for my fellow-countrymen,
for my children, and these sacrifice themselves in their turn for theirs, and theirs again
for those that come after them, and so on in a never-ending series of generations. And who
receives the fruit of this sacrifice?

Those who talk to us about this fantastic sacrifice, this dedication without an object, are
wont to talk to us also about the right to live. What is this right to live? They tell me I
am here to realize I know not what social end; but I feel that I, like each one of my fellows,
am here to realize myself, to live.

Yes, yes, I see it all!--an enormous social activity, a mighty civilization, a profuseness
of science, of art, of industry, of morality, and afterwards, when we have filled the world
with industrial marvels, with great factories, with roads, museums, and libraries, we shall
fall exhausted at the foot of it all, and it will subsist--for whom? Was man made for science
or was science made for man?

"Why!" the reader will exclaim again, "we are coming back to what the Catechism says: 'Q. For
whom did God create the world? A. For man.'" Well, why not?--so ought the man who is a man
to reply. The ant, if it took account of these matters and were a person, would reply "For
the ant," and it would reply rightly. The world is made for consciousness, for each consciousness.

A human soul is worth all the universe, someone--I know not whom--has said and said magnificently.
A human soul, mind you! Not a human life. Not this life. And it happens that the less a man
believes in the soul--that is to say in his conscious immortality, personal and concrete--the
more he will exaggerate the worth of this poor transitory life. This is the source from which
springs all that effeminate, sentimental ebullition against war. True, a man ought not to wish
to die, but the death to be renounced is the death of the soul. "Whosoever will save his life
shall lose it," says the Gospel; but it does not say "whosoever will save his soul," the immortal
soul--or, at any rate, which we believe and wish to be immortal.

And what all the objectivists do not see, or rather do not wish to see, is that when a man
affirms his "I," his personal consciousness, he affirms man, man concrete and real, affirms
the true humanism--the humanism of man, not of the things of man--and in affirming man he affirms
consciousness. For the only consciousness of which we have consciousness is that of man.

The world is for consciousness. Or rather this for, this notion of finality, and feeling rather
than notion, this teleological feeling, is born only where there is consciousness. Consciousness
and finality are fundamentally the same thing.

If the sun possessed consciousness it would think, no doubt, that it lived in order to give
light to the worlds; but it would also and above all think that the worlds existed in order
that it might give them light and enjoy itself in giving them light and so live. And it would
think well.

And all this tragic fight of man to save himself, this immortal craving for immortality which
caused the man Kant to make that immortal leap of which I have spoken, all this is simply a
fight for consciousness. If consciousness is, as some inhuman thinker has said, nothing more
than a flash of light between two eternities of darkness, then there is nothing more execrable
than existence.

Some may espy a fundamental contradiction in everything that I am saying, now expressing a
longing for unending life, now affirming that this earthly life does not possess the value
that is given to it. Contradiction? To be sure! The contradiction of my heart that says Yes
and of my head that says No! Of course there is contradiction. Who does not recollect those
words of the Gospel, "Lord, I believe, help thou my unbelief"? Contradiction! Of course! Since
we only live in and by contradictions, since life is tragedy and the tragedy is perpetual struggle,
without victory or the hope of victory, life is contradiction.

The values we are discussing are, as you see, values of the heart, and against values of the
heart reasons do not avail. For reasons are only reasons--that is to say, they are not even
truths. There is a class of pedantic label-mongers, pedants by nature and by grace, who remind
me of that man who, purposing to console a father whose son has suddenly died in the flower
of his years, says to him, "Patience, my friend, we all must die!" Would you think it strange
if this father were offended at such an impertinence? For it is an impertinence. There are
times when even an axiom can become an impertinence. How many times may it not be said--

    Para pensar cual tú, sólo es preciso
    no tener nada mas que inteligencia.[8]

There are, in fact, people who appear to think only with the brain, or with whatever may be
the specific thinking organ; while others think with all the body and all the soul, with the
blood, with the marrow of the bones, with the heart, with the lungs, with the belly, with the
life. And the people who think only with the brain develop into definition-mongers; they become
the professionals of thought. And you know what a professional is? You know what a product
of the differentiation of labour is?

Take a professional boxer. He has learnt to hit with such economy of effort that, while concentrating
all his strength in the blow, he only brings into play just those muscles that are required
for the immediate and definite object of his action--to knock out his opponent. A blow given
by a non-professional will not have so much immediate, objective efficiency; but it will more
greatly vitalize the striker, causing him to bring into play almost the whole of his body.
The one is the blow of a boxer, the other that of a man. And it is notorious that the Hercules
of the circus, the athletes of the ring, are not, as a rule, healthy. They knock out their
opponents, they lift enormous weights, but they die of phthisis or dyspepsia.

If a philosopher is not a man, he is anything but a philosopher; he is above all a pedant,
and a pedant is a caricature of a man. The cultivation of any branch of science--of chemistry,
of physics, of geometry, of philology--may be a work of differentiated specialization, and
even so only within very narrow limits and restrictions; but philosophy, like poetry, is a
work of integration and synthesis, or else it is merely pseudo-philosophical erudition.

All knowledge has an ultimate object. Knowledge for the sake of knowledge is, say what you
will, nothing but a dismal begging of the question. We learn something either for an immediate
practical end, or in order to complete the rest of our knowledge. Even the knowledge that appears
to us to be most theoretical--that is to say, of least immediate application to the non-intellectual
necessities of life--answers to a necessity which is no less real because it is intellectual,
to a reason of economy in thinking, to a principle of unity and continuity of consciousness.
But just as a scientific fact has its finality in the rest of knowledge, so the philosophy
that we would make our own has also its extrinsic object--it refers to our whole destiny, to
our attitude in face of life and the universe. And the most tragic problem of philosophy is
to reconcile intellectual necessities with the necessities of the heart and the will. For it
is on this rock that every philosophy that pretends to resolve the eternal and tragic contradiction,
the basis of our existence, breaks to pieces. But do all men face this contradiction squarely?

Little can be hoped from a ruler, for example, who has not at some time or other been preoccupied,
even if only confusedly, with the first beginning and the ultimate end of all things, and above
all of man, with the "why" of his origin and the "wherefore" of his destiny.

And this supreme preoccupation cannot be purely rational, it must involve the heart. It is
not enough to think about our destiny: it must be felt. And the would-be leader of men who
affirms and proclaims that he pays no heed to the things of the spirit, is not worthy to lead
them. By which I do not mean, of course, that any ready-made solution is to be required of
him. Solution? Is there indeed any?

So far as I am concerned, I will never willingly yield myself, nor entrust my confidence, to
any popular leader who is not penetrated with the feeling that he who orders a people orders
men, men of flesh and bone, men who are born, suffer, and, although they do not wish to die,
die; men who are ends in themselves, not merely means; men who must be themselves and not others;
men, in fine, who seek that which we call happiness. It is inhuman, for example, to sacrifice
one generation of men to the generation which follows, without having any feeling for the destiny
of those who are sacrificed, without having any regard, not for their memory, not for their
names, but for them themselves.

All this talk of a man surviving in his children, or in his works, or in the universal consciousness,
is but vague verbiage which satisfies only those who suffer from affective stupidity, and who,
for the rest, may be persons of a certain cerebral distinction. For it is possible to possess
great talent, or what we call great talent, and yet to be stupid as regards the feelings and
even morally imbecile. There have been instances.

These clever-witted, affectively stupid persons are wont to say that it is useless to seek
to delve in the unknowable or to kick against the pricks. It is as if one should say to a man
whose leg has had to be amputated that it does not help him at all to think about it. And we
all lack something; only some of us feel the lack and others do not. Or they pretend not to
feel the lack, and then they are hypocrites.

A pedant who beheld Solon weeping for the death of a son said to him, "Why do you weep thus,
if weeping avails nothing?" And the sage answered him, "Precisely for that reason--because
it does not avail." It is manifest that weeping avails something, even if only the alleviation
of distress; but the deep sense of Solon's reply to the impertinent questioner is plainly seen.
And I am convinced that we should solve many things if we all went out into the streets and
uncovered our griefs, which perhaps would prove to be but one sole common grief, and joined
together in beweeping them and crying aloud to the heavens and calling upon God. And this,
even though God should hear us not; but He would hear us. The chiefest sanctity of a temple
is that it is a place to which men go to weep in common. A miserere sung in common by a multitude
tormented by destiny has as much value as a philosophy. It is not enough to cure the plague:
we must learn to weep for it. Yes, we must learn to weep! Perhaps that is the supreme wisdom.
Why? Ask Solon.

There is something which, for lack of a better name, we will call the tragic sense of life,
which carries with it a whole conception of life itself and of the universe, a whole philosophy
more or less formulated, more or less conscious. And this sense may be possessed, and is possessed,
not only by individual men but by whole peoples. And this sense does not so much flow from
ideas as determine them, even though afterwards, as is manifest, these ideas react upon it
and confirm it. Sometimes it may originate in a chance illness--dyspepsia, for example; but
at other times it is constitutional. And it is useless to speak, as we shall see, of men who
are healthy and men who are not healthy. Apart from the fact there is no normal standard of
health, nobody has proved that man is necessarily cheerful by nature. And further, man, by
the very fact of being man, of possessing consciousness, is, in comparison with the ass or
the crab, a diseased animal. Consciousness is a disease.

Among men of flesh and bone there have been typical examples of those who possess this tragic
sense of life. I recall now Marcus Aurelius, St. Augustine, Pascal, Rousseau, René, Obermann,
Thomson,[9] Leopardi, Vigny, Lenau, Kleist, Amiel, Quental, Kierkegaard--men burdened with
wisdom rather than with knowledge.

And there are, I believe, peoples who possess this tragic sense of life also.

It is to this that we must now turn our attention, beginning with this matter of health and
disease.

FOOTNOTES:

[5] "Salto inmortal." There is a play here upon the term salto mortal, used to denote the dangerous
aerial somersault of the acrobat, which cannot be rendered in English.--J.E.C.F.

[6] "Conciencia." The same word is used in Spanish to denote both consciousness and conscience.
If the latter is specifically intended, the qualifying adjective "moral" or "religiosa" is
commonly added.--J.E.C.F.

[7] San Juan de los Angeles.

[8] To be lacking in everything but intelligence is the necessary qualification for thinking
like you.

[9] James Thomson, author of The City of Dreadful Night.

II.

THE STARTING-POINT

To some, perhaps, the foregoing reflections may seem to possess a certain morbid character.
Morbid? But what is disease precisely? And what is health?

May not disease itself possibly be the essential condition of that which we call progress and
progress itself a disease?

Who does not know the mythical tragedy of Paradise? Therein dwelt our first parents in a state
of perfect health and perfect innocence, and Jahwé gave them to eat of the tree of life and
created all things for them; but he commanded them not to taste of the fruit of the tree of
the knowledge of good and evil. But they, tempted by the serpent--Christ's type of prudence--tasted
of the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, and became subject to all diseases,
and to death, which is their crown and consummation, and to labour and to progress. For progress,
according to this legend, springs from original sin. And thus it was the curiosity of Eve,
of woman, of her who is most thrall to the organic necessities of life and of the conservation
of life, that occasioned the Fall and with the Fall the Redemption, and it was the Redemption
that set our feet on the way to God and made it possible for us to attain to Him and to be in Him.

Do you want another version of our origin? Very well then. According to this account, man is,
strictly speaking, merely a species of gorilla, orang-outang, chimpanzee, or the like, more
or less hydrocephalous. Once on a time an anthropoid monkey had a diseased offspring--diseased
from the strictly animal or zoological point of view, really diseased; and this disease, although
a source of weakness, resulted in a positive gain in the struggle for survival. The only vertical
mammal at last succeeded in standing erect--man. The upright position freed him from the necessity
of using his hands as means of support in walking; he was able, therefore, to oppose the thumb
to the other four fingers, to seize hold of objects and to fashion tools; and it is well known
that the hands are great promoters of the intelligence. This same position gave to the lungs,
trachea, larynx, and mouth an aptness for the production of articulate speech, and speech is
intelligence. Moreover, this position, causing the head to weigh vertically upon the trunk,
facilitated its development and increase of weight, and the head is the seat of the mind. But
as this necessitated greater strength and resistance in the bones of the pelvis than in those
of species whose head and trunk rest upon all four extremities, the burden fell upon woman,
the author of the Fall according to Genesis, of bringing forth larger-headed offspring through
a harder framework of bone. And Jahwé condemned her, for having sinned, to bring forth her
children in sorrow.

The gorilla, the chimpanzee, the orang-outang, and their kind, must look upon man as a feeble
and infirm animal, whose strange custom it is to store up his dead. Wherefore?

And this primary disease and all subsequent diseases--are they not perhaps the capital element
of progress? Arthritis, for example, infects the blood and introduces into it scoriæ, a kind
of refuse, of an imperfect organic combustion; but may not this very impurity happen to make
the blood more stimulative? May not this impure blood promote a more active cerebration precisely
because it is impure? Water that is chemically pure is undrinkable. And may not also blood
that is physiologically pure be unfit for the brain of the vertical mammal that has to live
by thought?

The history of medicine, moreover, teaches us that progress consists not so much in expelling
the germs of disease, or rather diseases themselves, as in accommodating them to our organism
and so perhaps enriching it, in dissolving them in our blood. What but this is the meaning
of vaccination and all the serums, and immunity from infection through lapse of time?

If this notion of absolute health were not an abstract category, something which does not strictly
exist, we might say that a perfectly healthy man would be no longer a man, but an irrational
animal. Irrational, because of the lack of some disease to set a spark to his reason. And this
disease which gives us the appetite of knowing for the sole pleasure of knowing, for the delight
of tasting of the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, is a real disease and
a tragic one.

Pantes anthrôpoi ton eidenai oregontai phusei, "all men naturally desire to know." Thus Aristotle
begins his Metaphysic, and it has been repeated a thousand times since then that curiosity
or the desire to know, which according to Genesis led our first mother to sin, is the origin
of knowledge.

But it is necessary to distinguish here between the desire or appetite for knowing, apparently
and at first sight for the love of knowledge itself, between the eagerness to taste of the
fruit of the tree of knowledge, and the necessity of knowing for the sake of living. The latter,
which gives us direct and immediate knowledge, and which in a certain sense might be called,
if it does not seem too paradoxical, unconscious knowledge, is common both to men and animals,
while that which distinguishes us from them is reflective knowledge, the knowing that we know.

Man has debated at length and will continue to debate at length--the world having been assigned
as a theatre for his debates--concerning the origin of knowledge; but, apart from the question
as to what the real truth about this origin may be, which we will leave until later, it is
a certainly ascertained fact that in the apparential order of things, in the life of beings
who are endowed with a certain more or less cloudy faculty of knowing and perceiving, or who
at any rate appear to act as if they were so endowed, knowledge is exhibited to us as bound
up with the necessity of living and of procuring the wherewithal to maintain life. It is a
consequence of that very essence of being, which according to Spinoza consists in the effort
to persist indefinitely in its own being. Speaking in terms in which concreteness verges upon
grossness, it may be said that the brain, in so far as its function is concerned, depends upon
the stomach. In beings which rank in the lowest scale of life, those actions which present
the characteristics of will, those which appear to be connected with a more or less clear consciousness,
are actions designed to procure nourishment for the being performing them.

Such then is what we may call the historical origin of knowledge, whatever may be its origin
from another point of view. Beings which appear to be endowed with perception, perceive in
order to be able to live, and only perceive in so far as they require to do so in order to
live. But perhaps this stored-up knowledge, the utility in which it had its origin being exhausted,
has come to constitute a fund of knowledge far exceeding that required for the bare necessities
of living.

Thus we have, first, the necessity of knowing in order to live, and next, arising out of this,
that other knowledge which we might call superfluous knowledge or knowledge de luxe, which
may in its turn come to constitute a new necessity. Curiosity, the so-called innate desire
of knowing, only awakes and becomes operative after the necessity of knowing for the sake of
living is satisfied; and although sometimes in the conditions under which the human race is
actually living it may not so befall, but curiosity may prevail over necessity and knowledge
over hunger, nevertheless the primordial fact is that curiosity sprang from the necessity of
knowing in order to live, and this is the dead weight and gross matter carried in the matrix
of science. Aspiring to be knowledge for the sake of knowledge, to know the truth for the sake
of the truth itself, science is forced by the necessities of life to turn aside and put it
itself at their service. While men believe themselves to be seeking truth for its own sake,
they are in fact seeking life in truth. The variations of science depend upon the variations
of human needs, and men of science are wont to work, willingly or unwillingly, wittingly or
unwittingly, in the service of the powerful or in that of a people that demands from them the
confirmation of its own desires.

But is this really a dead weight that impedes the progress of science, or is it not rather
its innermost redeeming essence? It is in fact the latter, and it is a gross stupidity to presume
to rebel against the very condition of life.

Knowledge is employed in the service of the necessity of life and primarily in the service
of the instinct of personal preservation. This necessity and this instinct have created in
man the organs of knowledge and given them such capacity as they possess. Man sees, hears,
touches, tastes, and smells that which it is necessary for him to see, hear, touch, taste,
and smell in order to preserve his life. The decay or the loss of any of these senses increases
the risks with which his life is environed, and if it increases them less in the state of society
in which we are actually living, the reason is that some see, hear, touch, and smell for others.
A blind man, by himself and without a guide, could not live long. Society is an additional
sense; it is the true common sense.

Man, then, in his quality of an isolated individual, only sees, hears, touches, tastes, and
smells in so far as is necessary for living and self-preservation. If he does not perceive
colours below red or above violet, the reason perhaps is that the colours which he does perceive
suffice for the purposes of self-preservation. And the senses themselves are simplifying apparati
which eliminate from objective reality everything that it is not necessary to know in order
to utilize objects for the purpose of preserving life. In complete darkness an animal, if it
does not perish, ends by becoming blind. Parasites which live in the intestines of other animals
upon the nutritive juices which they find ready prepared for them by these animals, as they
do not need either to see or hear, do in fact neither see nor hear; they simply adhere, a kind
of receptive bag, to the being upon whom they live. For these parasites the visible and audible
world does not exist. It is enough for them that the animals, in whose intestines they live,
see and hear.

Knowledge, then, is primarily at the service of the instinct of self-preservation, which is
indeed, as we have said with Spinoza, its very essence. And thus it may be said that it is
the instinct of self-preservation that makes perceptible for us the reality and truth of the
world; for it is this instinct that cuts out and separates that which exists for us from the
unfathomable and illimitable region of the possible. In effect, that which has existence for
us is precisely that which, in one way or another, we need to know in order to exist ourselves;
objective existence, as we know it, is a dependence of our own personal existence. And nobody
can deny that there may not exist, and perhaps do exist, aspects of reality unknown to us,
to-day at any rate, and perhaps unknowable, because they are in no way necessary to us for
the preservation of our own actual existence.

But man does not live alone; he is not an isolated individual, but a member of society. There
is not a little truth in the saying that the individual, like the atom, is an abstraction.
Yes, the atom apart from the universe is as much an abstraction as the universe apart from
the atom. And if the individual maintains his existence by the instinct of self-preservation,
society owes its being and maintenance to the individual's instinct of perpetuation. And from
this instinct, or rather from society, springs reason.

Reason, that which we call reason, reflex and reflective knowledge, the distinguishing mark
of man, is a social product.

It owes its origin, perhaps, to language. We think articulately--i.e., reflectively--thanks
to articulate language, and this language arose out of the need of communicating our thought
to our neighbours. To think is to talk with oneself, and each one of us talks with himself,
thanks to our having had to talk with one another. In everyday life it frequently happens that
we hit upon an idea that we were seeking and succeed in giving it form--that is to say, we
obtain the idea, drawing it forth from the mist of dim perceptions which it represents, thanks
to the efforts which we make to present it to others. Thought is inward language, and the inward
language originates in the outward. Hence it results that reason is social and common. A fact
pregnant with consequences, as we shall have occasion to see.

Now if there is a reality which, in so far as we have knowledge of it, is the creation of the
instinct of personal preservation and of the senses at the service of this instinct, must there
not be another reality, not less real than the former, the creation, in so far as we have knowledge
of it, of the instinct of perpetuation, the instinct of the species, and of the senses at the
service of this instinct? The instinct of preservation, hunger, is the foundation of the human
individual; the instinct of perpetuation, love, in its most rudimentary and physiological form,
is the foundation of human society. And just as man knows that which he needs to know in order
that he may preserve his existence, so society, or man in so far as he is a social being, knows
that which he needs to know in order that he may perpetuate himself in society.

There is a world, the sensible world, that is the child of hunger, and there is another world,
the ideal world, that is the child of love. And just as there are senses employed in the service
of the knowledge of the sensible world, so there are also senses, at present for the most part
dormant, for social consciousness has scarcely awakened, employed in the service of the knowledge
of the ideal world. And why must we deny objective reality to the creations of love, of the
instinct of perpetuation, since we allow it to the creations of hunger or the instinct of preservation?
For if it be said that the former creations are only the creations of our imagination, without
objective value, may it not equally be said of the latter that they are only the creations
of our senses? Who can assert that there is not an invisible and intangible world, perceived
by the inward sense that lives in the service of the instinct of perpetuation?

Human society, as a society, possesses senses which the individual, but for his existence in
society, would lack, just as the individual, man, who is in his turn a kind of society, possesses
senses lacking in the cells of which he is composed. The blind cells of hearing, in their dim
consciousness, must of necessity be unaware of the existence of the visible world, and if they
should hear it spoken of they would perhaps deem it to be the arbitrary creation of the deaf
cells of sight, while the latter in their turn would consider as illusion the audible world
which the hearing cells create.

We have remarked before that the parasites which live in the intestines of higher animals,
feeding upon the nutritive juices which these animals supply, do not need either to see or
hear, and therefore for them the visible and audible world does not exist. And if they possessed
a certain degree of consciousness and took account of the fact that the animal at whose expense
they live believed in a world of sight and hearing, they would perhaps deem such belief to
be due merely to the extravagance of its imagination. And similarly there are social parasites,
as Mr. A.J. Balfour admirably observes,[10] who, receiving from the society in which they live
the motives of their moral conduct, deny that belief in God and the other life is a necessary
foundation for good conduct and for a tolerable life, society having prepared for them the
spiritual nutriment by which they live. An isolated individual can endure life and live it
well and even heroically without in any sort believing either in the immortality of the soul
or in God, but he lives the life of a spiritual parasite. What we call the sense of honour
is, even in non-Christians, a Christian product. And I will say further, that if there exists
in a man faith in God joined to a life of purity and moral elevation, it is not so much the
believing in God that makes him good, as the being good, thanks to God, that makes him believe
in Him. Goodness is the best source of spiritual clear-sightedness.

I am well aware that it may be objected that all this talk of man creating the sensible world
and love the ideal world, of the blind cells of hearing and the deaf cells of sight, of spiritual
parasites, etc., is merely metaphor. So it is, and I do not claim to discuss otherwise than
by metaphor. And it is true that this social sense, the creature of love, the creator of language,
of reason, and of the ideal world that springs from it, is at bottom nothing other than what
we call fancy or imagination. Out of fancy springs reason. And if by imagination is understood
a faculty which fashions images capriciously, I will ask: What is caprice? And in any case
the senses and reason are also fallible.

We shall have to enquire what is this inner social faculty, the imagination which personalizes
everything, and which, employed in the service of the instinct of perpetuation, reveals to
us God and the immortality of the soul--God being thus a social product.

But this we will reserve till later.

And now, why does man philosophize?--that is to say, why does he investigate the first causes
and ultimate ends of things? Why does he seek the disinterested truth? For to say that all
men have a natural tendency to know is true; but wherefore?

Philosophers seek a theoretic or ideal starting-point for their human work, the work of philosophizing;
but they are not usually concerned to seek the practical and real starting-point, the purpose.
What is the object in making philosophy, in thinking it and then expounding it to one's fellows?
What does the philosopher seek in it and with it? The truth for the truth's own sake? The truth,
in order that we may subject our conduct to it and determine our spiritual attitude towards
life and the universe comformably with it?

Philosophy is a product of the humanity of each philosopher, and each philosopher is a man
of flesh and bone who addresses himself to other men of flesh and bone like himself. And, let
him do what he will, he philosophizes not with the reason only, but with the will, with the
feelings, with the flesh and with the bones, with the whole soul and the whole body. It is
the man that philosophizes.

I do not wish here to use the word "I" in connection with philosophizing, lest the impersonal
"I" should be understood in place of the man that philosophizes; for this concrete, circumscribed
"I," this "I" of flesh and bone, that suffers from tooth-ache and finds life insupportable
if death is the annihilation of the personal consciousness, must not be confounded with that
other counterfeit "I," the theoretical "I" which Fichte smuggled into philosophy, nor yet with
the Unique, also theoretical, of Max Stirner. It is better to say "we," understanding, however,
the "we" who are circumscribed in space.

Knowledge for the sake of knowledge! Truth for truth's sake! This is inhuman. And if we say
that theoretical philosophy addresses itself to practical philosophy, truth to goodness, science
to ethics, I will ask: And to what end is goodness? Is it, perhaps, an end in itself? Good
is simply that which contributes to the preservation, perpetuation, and enrichment of consciousness.
Goodness addresses itself to man, to the maintenance and perfection of human society which
is composed of men. And to what end is this? "So act that your action may be a pattern to all
men," Kant tells us. That is well, but wherefore? We must needs seek for a wherefore.

In the starting-point of all philosophy, in the real starting-point, the practical not the
theoretical, there is a wherefore. The philosopher philosophizes for something more than for
the sake of philosophizing. Primum vivere, deinde philosophari, says the old Latin adage; and
as the philosopher is a man before he is a philosopher, he must needs live before he can philosophize,
and, in fact, he philosophizes in order to live. And usually he philosophizes either in order
to resign himself to life, or to seek some finality in it, or to distract himself and forget
his griefs, or for pastime and amusement. A good illustration of this last case is to be found
in that terrible Athenian ironist, Socrates, of whom Xenophon relates in his Memorabilia that
he discovered to Theodata, the courtesan, the wiles that she ought to make use of in order
to lure lovers to her house so aptly, that she begged him to act as her companion in the chase,
sunthêratês, her pimp, in a word. And philosophy is wont, in fact, not infrequently to convert
itself into a kind of art of spiritual pimping. And sometimes into an opiate for lulling sorrows
to sleep.

I take at random a book of metaphysics, the first that comes to my hand, Time and Space, a
Metaphysical Essay, by Shadworth H. Hodgson. I open it, and in the fifth paragraph of the first
chapter of the first part I read:

"Metaphysics is, properly speaking, not a science but a philosophy--that is, it is a science
whose end is in itself, in the gratification and education of the minds which carry it on,
not in external purpose, such as the founding of any art conducive to the welfare of life."
Let us examine this. We see that metaphysics is not, properly speaking, a science--that is,
it is a science whose end is in itself. And this science, which, properly speaking, is not
a science, has its end in itself, in the gratification and education of the minds that cultivate
it. But what are we to understand? Is its end in itself or is it to gratify and educate the
minds that cultivate it? Either the one or the other! Hodgson afterwards adds that the end
of metaphysics is not any external purpose, such as that of founding an art conducive to the
welfare of life. But is not the gratification of the mind of him who cultivates philosophy
part of the well-being of his life? Let the reader consider this passage of the English metaphysician
and tell me if it is not a tissue of contradictions.

Such a contradiction is inevitable when an attempt is made to define humanly this theory of
science, of knowledge, whose end is in itself, of knowing for the sake of knowing, of attaining
truth for the sake of truth. Science exists only in personal consciousness and thanks to it;
astronomy, mathematics, have no other reality than that which they possess as knowledge in
the minds of those who study and cultivate them. And if some day all personal consciousness
must come to an end on the earth; if some day the human spirit must return to the nothingness--that
is to say, to the absolute unconsciousness--from whence it sprang; and if there shall no more
be any spirit that can avail itself of all our accumulated knowledge--then to what end is this
knowledge? For we must not lose sight of the fact that the problem of the personal immortality
of the soul involves the future of the whole human species.

This series of contradictions into which the Englishman falls in his desire to explain the
theory of a science whose end is in itself, is easily understood when it is remembered that
it is an Englishman who speaks, and that the Englishman is before everything else a man. Perhaps
a German specialist, a philosopher who had made philosophy his speciality, who had first murdered
his humanity and then buried it in his philosophy, would be better able to explain this theory
of a science whose end is in itself and of knowledge for the sake of knowledge.

Take the man Spinoza, that Portuguese Jew exiled in Holland; read his Ethic as a despairing
elegiac poem, which in fact it is, and tell me if you do not hear, beneath the disemburdened
and seemingly serene propositions more geometrico, the lugubrious echo of the prophetic psalms.
It is not the philosophy of resignation but of despair. LXVII.)--when he wrote that, he felt,
as we all feel, that we are slaves, and he did in fact think about death, and he wrote it in
a vain endeavour to free himself from this thought. Nor in writing Proposition XLII. of Part
V., that "happiness is not the reward of virtue but virtue itself," did he feel, one may be
sure, what he wrote. For this is usually the reason why men philosophize--in order to convince
themselves, even though they fail in the attempt. And this desire of convincing oneself--that
is to say, this desire of doing violence to one's own human nature--is the real starting-point
of not a few philosophies.

Whence do I come and whence comes the world in which and by which I live? Whither do I go and
whither goes everything that environs me? What does it all mean? Such are the questions that
man asks as soon as he frees himself from the brutalizing necessity of labouring for his material
sustenance. And if we look closely, we shall see that beneath these questions lies the wish
to know not so much the "why" as the "wherefore," not the cause but the end. Cicero's definition
of philosophy is well known--"the knowledge of things divine and human and of the causes in
which these things are contained," rerum divinarum et humanarum, causarumque quibus hæ res
continentur; but in reality these causes are, for us, ends. And what is the Supreme Cause,
God, but the Supreme End? The "why" interests us only in view of the "wherefore." We wish to
know whence we came only in order the better to be able to ascertain whither we are going.

This Ciceronian definition, which is the Stoic definition, is also found in that formidable
intellectualist, Clement of Alexandria, who was canonized by the Catholic Church, and he expounds
it in the fifth chapter of the first of his Stromata. But this same Christian philosopher--Christian?--in
the twenty-second chapter of his fourth Stroma tells us that for the gnostic--that is to say,
the intellectual--knowledge, gnosis, ought to suffice, and he adds: "I will dare aver that
it is not because he wishes to be saved that he, who devotes himself to knowledge for the sake
of the divine science itself, chooses knowledge. For the exertion of the intellect by exercise
is prolonged to a perpetual exertion. And the perpetual exertion of the intellect is the essence
of an intelligent being, which results from an uninterrupted process of admixture, and remains
eternal contemplation, a living substance. Could we, then, suppose anyone proposing to the
gnostic whether he would choose the knowledge of God or everlasting salvation, and if these,
which are entirely identical, were separable, he would without the least hesitation choose
the knowledge of God?" May He, may God Himself, whom we long to enjoy and possess eternally,
deliver us from this Clementine gnosticism or intellectualism!

Why do I wish to know whence I come and whither I go, whence comes and whither goes everything
that environs me, and what is the meaning of it all? For I do not wish to die utterly, and
I wish to know whether I am to die or not definitely. If I do not die, what is my destiny?
and if I die, then nothing has any meaning for me. And there are three solutions: (a) I know
that I shall die utterly, and then irremediable despair, or (b) I know that I shall not die
utterly, and then resignation, or (c) I cannot know either one or the other, and then resignation
in despair or despair in resignation, a desperate resignation or a resigned despair, and hence
conflict.

"It is best," some reader will say, "not to concern yourself with what cannot be known." But
is it possible?

Yes, perhaps, as the Sage says, "nothing worthy proving can be proven, nor yet disproven";
but can we restrain that instinct which urges man to wish to know, and above all to wish to
know the things which may conduce to life, to eternal life? Eternal life, not eternal knowledge,
as the Alexandrian gnostic said. For living is one thing and knowing is another; and, as we
shall see, perhaps there is such an opposition between the two that we may say that everything
vital is anti-rational, not merely irrational, and that everything rational is anti-vital.
And this is the basis of the tragic sense of life.

The defect of Descartes' Discourse of Method lies not in the antecedent methodical doubt; not
in his beginning by resolving to doubt everything, a merely intellectual device; but in his
resolution to begin by emptying himself of himself, of Descartes, of the real man, the man
of flesh and bone, the man who does not want to die, in order that he might be a mere thinker--that
is, an abstraction. But the real man returned and thrust himself into the philosophy.

"Le bon sens est la chose du monde la mieux partagée." Thus begins the Discourse of Method,
and this good sense saved him. He continues talking about himself, about the man Descartes,
telling us among other things that he greatly esteemed eloquence and loved poetry; that he
delighted above all in mathematics because of the evidence and certainty of its reasons, and
that he revered our theology and claimed as much as any to attain to heaven--et prétendais
autant qu'aucun autre à gagner le ciel. And this pretension--a very laudable one, I think,
and above all very natural--was what prevented him from deducing all the consequences of his
methodical doubt. The man Descartes claimed, as much as any other, to attain to heaven, "but
having learned as a thing very sure that the way to it is not less open to the most ignorant
than to the most learned, and that the revealed truths which lead thither are beyond our intelligence,
I did not dare submit them to my feeble reasonings, and I thought that to undertake to examine
them and to succeed therein, I should want some extraordinary help from heaven and need to
be more than man." And here we have the man. Here we have the man who "did not feel obliged,
thank God, to make a profession (métier) of science in order to increase his means, and who
did not pretend to play the cynic and despise glory." And afterwards he tells us how he was
compelled to make a sojourn in Germany, and there, shut up in a stove (poêle) he began to philosophize
his method. But in Germany, shut up in a stove! And such his discourse is, a stove-discourse,
and the stove a German one, although the philosopher shut up in it was a Frenchman who proposed
to himself to attain to heaven.

And he arrives at the cogito ergo sum, which St. Augustine had already anticipated; but the
ego implicit in this enthymeme, ego cogito, ergo ego sum, is an unreal--that is, an ideal--ego
or I, and its sum, its existence, something unreal also. "I think, therefore I am," can only
mean "I think, therefore I am a thinker"; this being of the "I am," which is deduced from "I
think," is merely a knowing; this being is knowledge, but not life. And the primary reality
is not that I think, but that I live, for those also live who do not think. Although this living
may not be a real living. God! what contradictions when we seek to join in wedlock life and reason!

The truth is sum, ergo cogito--I am, therefore I think, although not everything that is thinks.
Is not consciousness of thinking above all consciousness of being? Is pure thought possible,
without consciousness of self, without personality? Can there exist pure knowledge without
feeling, without that species of materiality which feeling lends to it? Do we not perhaps feel
thought, and do we not feel ourselves in the act of knowing and willing? Could not the man
in the stove have said: "I feel, therefore I am"? or "I will, therefore I am"? And to feel
oneself, is it not perhaps to feel oneself imperishable? To will oneself, is it not to wish
oneself eternal--that is to say, not to wish to die? What the sorrowful Jew of Amsterdam called
the essence of the thing, the effort that it makes to persist indefinitely in its own being,
self-love, the longing for immortality, is it not perhaps the primal and fundamental condition
of all reflective or human knowledge? And is it not therefore the true base, the real starting-point,
of all philosophy, although the philosophers, perverted by intellectualism, may not recognize it?

And, moreover, it was the cogito that introduced a distinction which, although fruitful of
truths, has been fruitful also of confusions, and this distinction is that between object,
cogito, and subject, sum. There is scarcely any distinction that does not also lead to confusion.
But we will return to this later.

For the present let us remain keenly suspecting that the longing not to die, the hunger for
personal immortality, the effort whereby we tend to persist indefinitely in our own being,
which is, according to the tragic Jew, our very essence, that this is the affective basis of
all knowledge and the personal inward starting-point of all human philosophy, wrought by a
man and for men. And we shall see how the solution of this inward affective problem, a solution
which may be but the despairing renunciation of the attempt at a solution, is that which colours
all the rest of philosophy. Underlying even the so-called problem of knowledge there is simply
this human feeling, just as underlying the enquiry into the "why," the cause, there is simply
the search for the "wherefore," the end. All the rest is either to deceive oneself or to wish
to deceive others; and to wish to deceive others in order to deceive oneself.

And this personal and affective starting-point of all philosophy and all religion is the tragic
sense of life. Let us now proceed to consider this. Their spiritual life is parasitic: it is
sheltered by convictions which belong, not to them, but to the society of which they form a
part; it is nourished by processes in which they take no share. And when those convictions
decay, and those processes come to an end, the alien life which they have maintained can scarce
be expected to outlast them" (Chap. iv.).

III

THE HUNGER OF IMMORTALITY

Let us pause to consider this immortal yearning for immortality--even though the gnostics or
intellectuals may be able to say that what follows is not philosophy but rhetoric. Moreover,
the divine Plato, when he discussed the immortality of the soul in his Phædo, said that it
was proper to clothe it in legend, muthologein.

First of all let us recall once again--and it will not be for the last time--that saying of
Spinoza that every being endeavours to persist in itself, and that this endeavour is its actual
essence, and implies indefinite time, and that the soul, in fine, sometimes with a clear and
distinct idea, sometimes confusedly, tends to persist in its being with indefinite duration,
and is aware of its persistency (Ethic, Part III., Props. VI.-X.).

It is impossible for us, in effect, to conceive of ourselves as not existing, and no effort
is capable of enabling consciousness to realize absolute unconsciousness, its own annihilation.
Try, reader, to imagine to yourself, when you are wide awake, the condition of your soul when
you are in a deep sleep; try to fill your consciousness with the representation of no-consciousness,
and you will see the impossibility of it. The effort to comprehend it causes the most tormenting
dizziness. We cannot conceive ourselves as not existing.

The visible universe, the universe that is created by the instinct of self-preservation, becomes
all too narrow for me. It is like a cramped cell, against the bars of which my soul beats its
wings in vain. Its lack of air stifles me. More, more, and always more! I want to be myself,
and yet without ceasing to be myself to be others as well, to merge myself into the totality
of things visible and invisible, to extend myself into the illimitable of space and to prolong
myself into the infinite of time. Not to be all and for ever is as if not to be--at least,
let me be my whole self, and be so for ever and ever. And to be the whole of myself is to be
everybody else. Either all or nothing!

All or nothing! And what other meaning can the Shakespearean "To be or not to be" have, or
that passage in Coriolanus where it is said of Marcius "He wants nothing of a god but eternity"?
Eternity, eternity!--that is the supreme desire! The thirst of eternity is what is called love
among men, and whosoever loves another wishes to eternalize himself in him. Nothing is real
that is not eternal.

From the poets of all ages and from the depths of their souls this tremendous vision of the
flowing away of life like water has wrung bitter cries--from Pindar's "dream of a shadow,"
skias onar, to Calderón's "life is a dream" and Shakespeare's "we are such stuff as dreams
are made on," this last a yet more tragic sentence than Calderón's, for whereas the Castilian
only declares that our life is a dream, but not that we ourselves are the dreamers of it, the
Englishman makes us ourselves a dream, a dream that dreams.

The vanity of the passing world and love are the two fundamental and heart-penetrating notes
of true poetry. And they are two notes of which neither can be sounded without causing the
other to vibrate. The feeling of the vanity of the passing world kindles love in us, the only
thing that triumphs over the vain and transitory, the only thing that fills life again and
eternalizes it. In appearance at any rate, for in reality.... And love, above all when it struggles
against destiny, overwhelms us with the feeling of the vanity of this world of appearances
and gives us a glimpse of another world, in which destiny is overcome and liberty is law.

Everything passes! Such is the refrain of those who have drunk, lips to the spring, of the
fountain of life, of those who have tasted of the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good
and evil.

To be, to be for ever, to be without ending! thirst of being, thirst of being more! hunger
of God! thirst of love eternalizing and eternal! to be for ever! to be God!

"Ye shall be as gods!" we are told in Genesis that the serpent said to the first pair of lovers
(Gen. iii. 5). "If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable,"
wrote the Apostle (1 Cor. xv. 19); and all religion has sprung historically from the cult of
the dead--that is to say, from the cult of immortality.

The tragic Portuguese Jew of Amsterdam wrote that the free man thinks of nothing less than
of death; but this free man is a dead man, free from the impulse of life, for want of love,
the slave of his liberty. This thought that I must die and the enigma of what will come after
death is the very palpitation of my consciousness. When I contemplate the green serenity of
the fields or look into the depths of clear eyes through which shines a fellow-soul, my consciousness
dilates, I feel the diastole of the soul and am bathed in the flood of the life that flows
about me, and I believe in my future; but instantly the voice of mystery whispers to me, "Thou
shalt cease to be!" the angel of Death touches me with his wing, and the systole of the soul
floods the depths of my spirit with the blood of divinity.

Like Pascal, I do not understand those who assert that they care not a farthing for these things,
and this indifference "in a matter that touches themselves, their eternity, their all, exasperates
me rather than moves me to compassion, astonishes and shocks me," and he who feels thus "is
for me," as for Pascal, whose are the words just quoted, "a monster."

It has been said a thousand times and in a thousand books that ancestor-worship is for the
most part the source of primitive religions, and it may be strictly said that what most distinguishes
man from the other animals is that, in one form or another, he guards his dead and does not
give them over to the neglect of teeming mother earth; he is an animal that guards its dead.
And from what does he thus guard them? From what does he so futilely protect them? The wretched
consciousness shrinks from its own annihilation, and, just as an animal spirit, newly severed
from the womb of the world, finds itself confronted with the world and knows itself distinct
from it, so consciousness must needs desire to possess another life than that of the world
itself. And so the earth would run the risk of becoming a vast cemetery before the dead themselves
should die again.

When mud huts or straw shelters, incapable of resisting the inclemency of the weather, sufficed
for the living, tumuli were raised for the dead, and stone was used for sepulchres before it
was used for houses. It is the strong-builded houses of the dead that have withstood the ages,
not the houses of the living; not the temporary lodgings but the permanent habitations.

This cult, not of death but of immortality, originates and preserves religions. In the midst
of the delirium of destruction, Robespierre induced the Convention to declare the existence
of the Supreme Being and "the consolatory principle of the immortality of the soul," the Incorruptible
being dismayed at the idea of having himself one day to turn to corruption.

A disease? Perhaps; but he who pays no heed to his disease is heedless of his health, and man
is an animal essentially and substantially diseased. A disease? Perhaps it may be, like life
itself to which it is thrall, and perhaps the only health possible may be death; but this disease
is the fount of all vigorous health. From the depth of this anguish, from the abyss of the
feeling of our mortality, we emerge into the light of another heaven, as from the depth of
Hell Dante emerged to behold the stars once again--

    e quindi uscimmo a riveder le stelle.

Although this meditation upon mortality may soon induce in us a sense of anguish, it fortifies
us in the end. Retire, reader, into yourself and imagine a slow dissolution of yourself--the
light dimming about you--all things becoming dumb and soundless, enveloping you in silence--the
objects that you handle crumbling away between your hands--the ground slipping from under your
feet--your very memory vanishing as if in a swoon--everything melting away from you into nothingness
and you yourself also melting away--the very consciousness of nothingness, merely as the phantom
harbourage of a shadow, not even remaining to you.

I have heard it related of a poor harvester who died in a hospital bed, that when the priest
went to anoint his hands with the oil of extreme unction, he refused to open his right hand,
which clutched a few dirty coins, not considering that very soon neither his hand nor he himself
would be his own any more. And so we close and clench, not our hand, but our heart, seeking
to clutch the world in it.

A friend confessed to me that, foreseeing while in the full vigour of physical health the near
approach of a violent death, he proposed to concentrate his life and spend the few days which
he calculated still remained to him in writing a book. Vanity of vanities!

If at the death of the body which sustains me, and which I call mine to distinguish it from
the self that is I, my consciousness returns to the absolute unconsciousness from which it
sprang, and if a like fate befalls all my brothers in humanity, then is our toil-worn human
race nothing but a fatidical procession of phantoms, going from nothingness to nothingness,
and humanitarianism the most inhuman thing known.

And the remedy is not that suggested in the quatrain that runs--

    Cada vez que considero
    que me tengo de morir,
    tiendo la capa en el suelo
    y no me harto de dormir.[11]

No! The remedy is to consider our mortal destiny without flinching, to fasten our gaze upon
the gaze of the Sphinx, for it is thus that the malevolence of its spell is discharmed.

If we all die utterly, wherefore does everything exist? Wherefore? It is the Wherefore of the
Sphinx; it is the Wherefore that corrodes the marrow of the soul; it is the begetter of that
anguish which gives us the love of hope.

Among the poetic laments of the unhappy Cowper there are some lines written under the oppression
of delirium, in which, believing himself to be the mark of the Divine vengeance, he exclaims--

    Hell might afford my miseries a shelter.

This is the Puritan sentiment, the preoccupation with sin and predestination; but read the
much more terrible words of Sénancour, expressive of the Catholic, not the Protestant, despair,
when he makes his Obermann say, "L'homme est périssable. Il se peut; mais périssons en résistant,
et, si le néant nous est réservé, ne faisons pas que ce soit une justice." And I must confess,
painful though the confession be, that in the days of the simple faith of my childhood, descriptions
of the tortures of hell, however terrible, never made me tremble, for I always felt that nothingness
was much more terrifying. He who suffers lives, and he who lives suffering, even though over
the portal of his abode is written "Abandon all hope!" loves and hopes. It is better to live
in pain than to cease to be in peace. The truth is that I could not believe in this atrocity
of Hell, of an eternity of punishment, nor did I see any more real hell than nothingness and
the prospect of it. And I continue in the belief that if we all believed in our salvation from
nothingness we should all be better.

What is this joie de vivre that they talk about nowadays? Our hunger for God, our thirst of
immortality, of survival, will always stifle in us this pitiful enjoyment of the life that
passes and abides not. It is the frenzied love of life, the love that would have life to be
unending, that most often urges us to long for death. "If it is true that I am to die utterly,"
we say to ourselves, "then once I am annihilated the world has ended so far as I am concerned--it
is finished. Why, then, should it not end forthwith, so that no new consciousnesses, doomed
to suffer the tormenting illusion of a transient and apparential existence, may come into being?
If, the illusion of living being shattered, living for the mere sake of living or for the sake
of others who are likewise doomed to die, does not satisfy the soul, what is the good of living?
Our best remedy is death." And thus it is that we chant the praises of the never-ending rest
because of our dread of it, and speak of liberating death.

Leopardi, the poet of sorrow, of annihilation, having lost the ultimate illusion, that of believing
in his immortality--

        Peri l'inganno estremo
    ch'eterno io mi credei,

spoke to his heart of l'infinita vanitá del tutto, and perceived how close is the kinship between
love and death, and how "when love is born deep down in the heart, simultaneously a languid
and weary desire to die is felt in the breast." The greater part of those who seek death at
their own hand are moved thereto by love; it is the supreme longing for life, for more life,
the longing to prolong and perpetuate life, that urges them to death, once they are persuaded
of the vanity of this longing.

The problem is tragic and eternal, and the more we seek to escape from it, the more it thrusts
itself upon us. Four-and-twenty centuries ago, in his dialogue on the immortality of the soul,
the serene Plato--but was he serene?--spoke of the uncertainty of our dream of being immortal
and of the risk that the dream might be vain, and from his own soul there escaped this profound
cry--Glorious is the risk!--kalos gar o kindunos, glorious is the risk that we are able to
run of our souls never dying--a sentence that was the germ of Pascal's famous argument of the
wager.

Faced with this risk, I am presented with arguments designed to eliminate it, arguments demonstrating
the absurdity of the belief in the immortality of the soul; but these arguments fail to make
any impression upon me, for they are reasons and nothing more than reasons, and it is not with
reasons that the heart is appeased. I do not want to die--no; I neither want to die nor do
I want to want to die; I want to live for ever and ever and ever. I want this "I" to live--this
poor "I" that I am and that I feel myself to be here and now, and therefore the problem of
the duration of my soul, of my own soul, tortures me.

I am the centre of my universe, the centre of the universe, and in my supreme anguish I cry
with Michelet, "Mon moi, ils m'arrachent mon moi!" What is a man profited if he shall gain
the whole world and lose his own soul? (Matt. xvi. 26). Egoism, you say? There is nothing more
universal than the individual, for what is the property of each is the property of all. Each
man is worth more than the whole of humanity, nor will it do to sacrifice each to all save
in so far as all sacrifice themselves to each. That which we call egoism is the principle of
psychic gravity, the necessary postulate. "Love thy neighbour as thyself," we are told, the
presupposition being that each man loves himself; and it is not said "Love thyself." And, nevertheless,
we do not know how to love ourselves.

Put aside the persistence of your own self and ponder what they tell you. Sacrifice yourself
to your children! And sacrifice yourself to them because they are yours, part and prolongation
of yourself, and they in their turn will sacrifice themselves to their children, and these
children to theirs, and so it will go on without end, a sterile sacrifice by which nobody profits.
I came into the world to create my self, and what is to become of all our selves? Live for
the True, the Good, the Beautiful! We shall see presently the supreme vanity and the supreme
insincerity of this hypocritical attitude.

"That art thou!" they tell me with the Upanishads. And I answer: Yes, I am that, if that is
I and all is mine, and mine the totality of things. As mine I love the All, and I love my neighbour
because he lives in me and is part of my consciousness, because he is like me, because he is mine.

Oh, to prolong this blissful moment, to sleep, to eternalize oneself in it! Here and now, in
this discreet and diffused light, in this lake of quietude, the storm of the heart appeased
and stilled the echoes of the world! Insatiable desire now sleeps and does not even dream;
use and wont, blessed use and wont, are the rule of my eternity; my disillusions have died
with my memories, and with my hopes my fears.

And they come seeking to deceive us with a deceit of deceits, telling us that nothing is lost,
that everything is transformed, shifts and changes, that not the least particle of matter is
annihilated, not the least impulse of energy is lost, and there are some who pretend to console
us with this! Futile consolation! It is not my matter or my energy that is the cause of my
disquiet, for they are not mine if I myself am not mine--that is, if I am not eternal. No,
my longing is not to be submerged in the vast All, in an infinite and eternal Matter or Energy,
or in God; not to be possessed by God, but to possess Him, to become myself God, yet without
ceasing to be I myself, I who am now speaking to you. Tricks of monism avail us nothing; we
crave the substance and not the shadow of immortality.

Materialism, you say? Materialism? Without doubt; but either our spirit is likewise some kind
of matter or it is nothing. I dread the idea of having to tear myself away from my flesh; I
dread still more the idea of having to tear myself away from everything sensible and material,
from all substance. Yes, perhaps this merits the name of materialism; and if I grapple myself
to God with all my powers and all my senses, it is that He may carry me in His arms beyond
death, looking into these eyes of mine with the light of His heaven when the light of earth
is dimming in them for ever. Self-illusion? Talk not to me of illusion--let me live!

They also call this pride--"stinking pride" Leopardi called it--and they ask us who are we,
vile earthworms, to pretend to immortality; in virtue of what? wherefore? by what right? "In
virtue of what?" you ask; and I reply, In virtue of what do we now live? "Wherefore?"--and
wherefore do we now exist? "By what right?"--and by what right are we? To exist is just as
gratuitous as to go on existing for ever. Do not let us talk of merit or of right or of the
wherefore of our longing, which is an end in itself, or we shall lose our reason in a vortex
of absurdities. I do not claim any right or merit; it is only a necessity; I need it in order
to live.

And you, who are you? you ask me; and I reply with Obermann, "For the universe, nothing; for
myself, everything!" Pride? Is it pride to want to be immortal? Unhappy men that we are! 'Tis
a tragic fate, without a doubt, to have to base the affirmation of immortality upon the insecure
and slippery foundation of the desire for immortality; but to condemn this desire on the ground
that we believe it to have been proved to be unattainable, without undertaking the proof, is
merely supine. I am dreaming ...? Let me dream, if this dream is my life. Do not awaken me
from it. I believe in the immortal origin of this yearning for immortality, which is the very
substance of my soul. But do I really believe in it ...? And wherefore do you want to be immortal?
you ask me, wherefore? Frankly, I do not understand the question, for it is to ask the reason
of the reason, the end of the end, the principle of the principle.

But these are things which it is impossible to discuss.

It is related in the book of the Acts of the Apostles how wherever Paul went the Jews, moved
with envy, were stirred up to persecute him. They stoned him in Iconium and Lystra, cities
of Lycaonia, in spite of the wonders that he worked therein; they scourged him in Philippi
of Macedonia and persecuted his brethren in Thessalonica and Berea. He arrived at Athens, however,
the noble city of the intellectuals, over which brooded the sublime spirit of Plato--the Plato
of the gloriousness of the risk of immortality; and there Paul disputed with Epicureans and
Stoics. And some said of him, "What doth this babbler (spermologos) mean?" and others, "He
seemeth to be a setter forth of strange gods" (Acts xvii. (verses 19-20). And then follows
that wonderful characterization of those Athenians of the decadence, those dainty connoisseurs
of the curious, "for all the Athenians and strangers which were there spent their time in nothing
else, but either to tell or to hear some new thing" (verse 21). A wonderful stroke which depicts
for us the condition of mind of those who had learned from the Odyssey that the gods plot and
achieve the destruction of mortals in order that their posterity may have something to narrate!

Here Paul stands, then, before the subtle Athenians, before the græuli, men of culture and
tolerance, who are ready to welcome and examine every doctrine, who neither stone nor scourge
nor imprison any man for professing these or those doctrines--here he stands where liberty
of conscience is respected and every opinion is given an attentive hearing. And he raises his
voice in the midst of the Areopagus and speaks to them as it was fitting to speak to the cultured
citizens of Athens, and all listen to him, agog to hear the latest novelty. But when he begins
to speak to them of the resurrection of the dead their stock of patience and tolerance comes
to an end, and some mock him, and others say: "We will hear thee again of this matter!" intending
not to hear him. 22-25). And in his audience before King Agrippa, when Festus the governor
heard him speak of the resurrection of the dead, he exclaimed: "Thou art mad, Paul; much learning
hath made thee mad" (Acts xxvi. 24).

Whatever of truth there may have been in Paul's discourse in the Areopagus, and even if there
were none, it is certain that this admirable account plainly shows how far Attic tolerance
goes and where the patience of the intellectuals ends. They all listen to you, calmly and smilingly,
and at times they encourage you, saying: "That's strange!" or, "He has brains!" or "That's
suggestive," or "How fine!" or "Pity that a thing so beautiful should not be true!" or "this
makes one think!" But as soon as you speak to them of resurrection and life after death, they
lose their patience and cut short your remarks and exclaim, "Enough of this! we will talk about
this another day!" And it is about this, my poor Athenians, my intolerant intellectuals, it
is about this that I am going to talk to you here.

And even if this belief be absurd, why is its exposition less tolerated than that of others
much more absurd? Why this manifest hostility to such a belief? Is it fear? Is it, perhaps,
spite provoked by inability to share it?

And sensible men, those who do not intend to let themselves be deceived, keep on dinning into
our ears the refrain that it is no use giving way to folly and kicking against the pricks,
for what cannot be is impossible. The manly attitude, they say, is to resign oneself to fate;
since we are not immortal, do not let us want to be so; let us submit ourselves to reason without
tormenting ourselves about what is irremediable, and so making life more gloomy and miserable.
This obsession, they add, is a disease. Disease, madness, reason ... the everlasting refrain!
Very well then--No! I do not submit to reason, and I rebel against it, and I persist in creating
by the energy of faith my immortalizing God, and in forcing by my will the stars out of their
courses, for if we had faith as a grain of mustard seed we should say to that mountain, "Remove
hence," and it would remove, and nothing would be impossible to us (Matt. xvii. 20).

There you have that "thief of energies," as he[12] so obtusely called Christ who sought to
wed nihilism with the struggle for existence, and he talks to you about courage. His heart
craved the eternal all while his head convinced him of nothingness, and, desperate and mad
to defend himself from himself, he cursed that which he most loved. Because he could not be
Christ, he blasphemed against Christ. Bursting with his own self, he wished himself unending
and dreamed his theory of eternal recurrence, a sorry counterfeit of immortality, and, full
of pity for himself, he abominated all pity. And there are some who say that his is the philosophy
of strong men! No, it is not. My health and my strength urge me to perpetuate myself. His is
the doctrine of weaklings who aspire to be strong, but not of the strong who are strong. Only
the feeble resign themselves to final death and substitute some other desire for the longing
for personal immortality. In the strong the zeal for perpetuity overrides the doubt of realizing
it, and their superabundance of life overflows upon the other side of death.

Before this terrible mystery of mortality, face to face with the Sphinx, man adopts different
attitudes and seeks in various ways to console himself for having been born. And now it occurs
to him to take it as a diversion, and he says to himself with Renan that this universe is a
spectacle that God presents to Himself, and that it behoves us to carry out the intentions
of the great Stage-Manager and contribute to make the spectacle the most brilliant and the
most varied that may be. And they have made a religion of art, a cure for the metaphysical
evil, and invented the meaningless phrase of art for art's sake.

And it does not suffice them. If the man who tells you that he writes, paints, sculptures,
or sings for his own amusement, gives his work to the public, he lies; he lies if he puts his
name to his writing, painting, statue, or song. He wishes, at the least, to leave behind a
shadow of his spirit, something that may survive him. If the Imitation of Christ is anonymous,
it is because its author sought the eternity of the soul and did not trouble himself about
that of the name. The man of letters who shall tell you that he despises fame is a lying rascal.
Of Dante, the author of those three-and-thirty vigorous verses (Purg. xi. 85-117) on the vanity
of worldly glory, Boccaccio says that he relished honours and pomps more perhaps than suited
with his conspicuous virtue. The keenest desire of his condemned souls is that they may be
remembered and talked of here on earth, and this is the chief solace that lightens the darkness
of his Inferno. And he himself confessed that his aim in expounding the concept of Monarchy
was not merely that he might be of service to others, but that he might win for his own glory
the palm of so great prize (De Monarchia, lib. i., cap. i.). What more? Even of that holy man,
seemingly the most indifferent to worldly vanity, the Poor Little One of Assisi, it is related
in the Legenda Trium Sociorum that he said: Adhuc adorabor per totum mundum!--You will see
how I shall yet be adored by all the world! (II. Celano, i. 1). And even of God Himself the
theologians say that He created the world for the manifestation of His glory.

When doubts invade us and cloud our faith in the immortality of the soul, a vigorous and painful
impulse is given to the anxiety to perpetuate our name and fame, to grasp at least a shadow
of immortality. And hence this tremendous struggle to singularize ourselves, to survive in
some way in the memory of others and of posterity. It is this struggle, a thousand times more
terrible than the struggle for life, that gives its tone, colour, and character to our society,
in which the medieval faith in the immortal soul is passing away. Each one seeks to affirm
himself, if only in appearance.

Once the needs of hunger are satisfied--and they are soon satisfied--the vanity, the necessity--for
it is a necessity--arises of imposing ourselves upon and surviving in others. Man habitually
sacrifices his life to his purse, but he sacrifices his purse to his vanity. He boasts even
of his weaknesses and his misfortunes, for want of anything better to boast of, and is like
a child who, in order to attract attention, struts about with a bandaged finger. And vanity,
what is it but eagerness for survival?

The vain man is in like case with the avaricious--he takes the means for the end; forgetting
the end he pursues the means for its own sake and goes no further. The seeming to be something,
conducive to being it, ends by forming our objective. We need that others should believe in
our superiority to them in order that we may believe in it ourselves, and upon their belief
base our faith in our own persistence, or at least in the persistence of our fame. We are more
grateful to him who congratulates us on the skill with which we defend a cause than we are
to him who recognizes the truth or the goodness of the cause itself. A rabid mania for originality
is rife in the modern intellectual world and characterizes all individual effort. We would
rather err with genius than hit the mark with the crowd. Rousseau has said in his Émile (book
iv.): "Even though philosophers should be in a position to discover the truth, which of them
would take any interest in it? Each one knows well that his system is not better founded than
the others, but he supports it because it is his. There is not a single one of them who, if
he came to know the true and the false, would not prefer the falsehood that he had found to
the truth discovered by another. Where is the philosopher who would not willingly deceive mankind
for his own glory? Where is he who in the secret of his heart does not propose to himself any
other object than to distinguish himself? Provided that he lifts himself above the vulgar,
provided that he outshines the brilliance of his competitors, what does he demand more? The
essential thing is to think differently from others. With believers he is an atheist; with
atheists he would be a believer." How much substantial truth there is in these gloomy confessions
of this man of painful sincerity!

This violent struggle for the perpetuation of our name extends backwards into the past, just
as it aspires to conquer the future; we contend with the dead because we, the living, are obscured
beneath their shadow. We are jealous of the geniuses of former times, whose names, standing
out like the landmarks of history, rescue the ages from oblivion. The heaven of fame is not
very large, and the more there are who enter it the less is the share of each. The great names
of the past rob us of our place in it; the space which they fill in the popular memory they
usurp from us who aspire to occupy it. And so we rise up in revolt against them, and hence
the bitterness with which all those who seek after fame in the world of letters judge those
who have already attained it and are in enjoyment of it. If additions continue to be made to
the wealth of literature, there will come a day of sifting, and each one fears lest he be caught
in the meshes of the sieve. In attacking the masters, irreverent youth is only defending itself;
the iconoclast or image-breaker is a Stylite who erects himself as an image, an icon. "Comparisons
are odious," says the familiar adage, and the reason is that we wish to be unique. Do not tell
Fernandez that he is one of the most talented Spaniards of the younger generation, for though
he will affect to be gratified by the eulogy he is really annoyed by it; if, however, you tell
him that he is the most talented man in Spain--well and good! But even that is not sufficient:
one of the worldwide reputations would be more to his liking, but he is only fully satisfied
with being esteemed the first in all countries and all ages. The more alone, the nearer to
that unsubstantial immortality, the immortality of the name, for great names diminish one another.

What is the meaning of that irritation which we feel when we believe that we are robbed of
a phrase, or a thought, or an image, which we believed to be our own, when we are plagiarized?
Robbed? Can it indeed be ours once we have given it to the public? Only because it is ours
we prize it; and we are fonder of the false money that preserves our impress than of the coin
of pure gold from which our effigy and our legend has been effaced. It very commonly happens
that it is when the name of a writer is no longer in men's mouths that he most influences his
public, his mind being then disseminated and infused in the minds of those who have read him,
whereas he was quoted chiefly when his thoughts and sayings, clashing with those generally
received, needed the guarantee of a name. What was his now belongs to all, and he lives in
all. But for him the garlands have faded, and he believes himself to have failed. He hears
no more either the applause or the silent tremor of the heart of those who go on reading him.
Ask any sincere artist which he would prefer, whether that his work should perish and his memory
survive, or that his work should survive and his memory perish, and you will see what he will
tell you, if he is really sincere. When a man does not work merely in order to live and carry
on, he works in order to survive. To work for the work's sake is not work but play. And play?
We will talk about that later on.

A tremendous passion is this longing that our memory may be rescued, if it is possible, from
the oblivion which overtakes others. From it springs envy, the cause, according to the biblical
narrative, of the crime with which human history opened: the murder of Abel by his brother
Cain. It was not a struggle for bread--it was a struggle to survive in God, in the divine memory.
Envy is a thousand times more terrible than hunger, for it is spiritual hunger. If what we
call the problem of life, the problem of bread, were once solved, the earth would be turned
into a hell by the emergence in a more violent form of the struggle for survival.

For the sake of a name man is ready to sacrifice not only life but happiness--life as a matter
of course. "Let me die, but let my fame live!" exclaimed Rodrigo Arias in Las Mocedades del
Cid when he fell mortally wounded by Don Ordóñez de Lara. "Courage, Girolamo, for you will
long be remembered; death is bitter, but fame eternal!" cried Girolamo Olgiati, the disciple
of Cola Montano and the murderer, together with his fellow-conspirators Lampugnani and Visconti,
of Galeazzo Sforza, tyrant of Milan. And there are some who covet even the gallows for the
sake of acquiring fame, even though it be an infamous fame: avidus malæ famæ, as Tacitus says.

And this erostratism, what is it at bottom but the longing for immortality, if not for substantial
and concrete immortality, at any rate for the shadowy immortality of the name?

And in this there are degrees. If a man despises the applause of the crowd of to-day, it is
because he seeks to survive in renewed minorities for generations. "Posterity is an accumulation
of minorities," said Gounod. He wishes to prolong himself in time rather than in space. The
crowd soon overthrows its own idols and the statue lies broken at the foot of the pedestal
without anyone heeding it; but those who win the hearts of the elect will long be the objects
of a fervent worship in some shrine, small and secluded no doubt, but capable of preserving
them from the flood of oblivion. The artist sacrifices the extensiveness of his fame to its
duration; he is anxious rather to endure for ever in some little corner than to occupy a brilliant
second place in the whole universe; he prefers to be an atom, eternal and conscious of himself,
rather than to be for a brief moment the consciousness of the whole universe; he sacrifices
infinitude to eternity.

And they keep on wearying our ears with this chorus of Pride! stinking Pride! Pride, to wish
to leave an ineffaceable name? Pride? It is like calling the thirst for riches a thirst for
pleasure. No, it is not so much the longing for pleasure that drives us poor folk to seek money
as the terror of poverty, just as it was not the desire for glory but the terror of hell that
drove men in the Middle Ages to the cloister with its acedia. Neither is this wish to leave
a name pride, but terror of extinction. We aim at being all because in that we see the only
means of escaping from being nothing. We wish to save our memory--at any rate, our memory.
How long will it last? At most as long as the human race lasts. And what if we shall save our
memory in God?

Unhappy, I know well, are these confessions; but from the depth of unhappiness springs new
life, and only by draining the lees of spiritual sorrow can we at last taste the honey that
lies at the bottom of the cup of life. Anguish leads us to consolation.

This thirst for eternal life is appeased by many, especially by the simple, at the fountain
of religious faith; but to drink of this is not given to all. The institution whose primordial
end is to protect this faith in the personal immortality of the soul is Catholicism; but Catholicism
has sought to rationalize this faith by converting religion into theology, by offering a philosophy,
and a philosophy of the thirteenth century, as a basis for vital belief. This and its consequences
we will now proceed to examine.

FOOTNOTES:

[11] Each time that I consider that it is my lot to die, I spread my cloak upon the ground
and am never surfeited with sleeping.

[12] Nietzsche.

IV

THE ESSENCE OF CATHOLICISM

Let us now approach the Christian, Catholic, Pauline, or Athanasian solution of our inward
vital problem, the hunger of immortality.

Christianity sprang from the confluence of two mighty spiritual streams--the one Judaic, the
other Hellenic--each of which had already influenced the other, and Rome finally gave it a
practical stamp and social permanence.

It has been asserted, perhaps somewhat precipitately, that primitive Christianity was an-eschatological,
that faith in another life after death is not clearly manifested in it, but rather a belief
in the proximate end of the world and establishment of the kingdom of God, a belief known as
chiliasm. But were they not fundamentally one and the same thing? Faith in the immortality
of the soul, the nature of which was not perhaps very precisely defined, may be said to be
a kind of tacit understanding or supposition underlying the whole of the Gospel; and it is
the mental orientation of many of those who read it to-day, an orientation contrary to that
of the Christians from among whom the Gospel sprang, that prevents them from seeing this. Without
doubt all that about the second coming of Christ, when he shall come among the clouds, clothed
with majesty and great power, to judge the quick and the dead, to open to some the kingdom
of heaven and to cast others into Gehenna, where there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth,
may be understood in a chiliastic sense; and it is even said of Christ in the Gospel (Mark
ix. I), that there were with him some who should not taste of death till they had seen the
kingdom of God--that is, that the kingdom should come during their generation. And in the same
chapter, verse 10, it is said of Peter and James and John, who went up with Jesus to the Mount
of Transfiguration and heard him say that he would rise again from the dead, that "they kept
that saying within themselves, questioning one with another what the rising from the dead should
mean." And at all events the Gospel was written when this belief, the basis and raison d'être
of Christianity, was in process of formation. See Matt. xxii. 29-32; Mark xii. 24-27; Luke
xvi. 22-31; xx. 34-37; John v. 24-29; vi. 40, 54, 58; viii. 51; xi. 25, 56; xiv. 2, 19. And,
above all, that passage in Matt. xxvii. 52, which tells how at the resurrection of Christ "many
bodies of the saints which slept arose."

And this was not a natural resurrection. No; the Christian faith was born of the faith that
Jesus did not remain dead, but that God raised him up again, and that this resurrection was
a fact; but this did not presuppose a mere immortality of the soul in the philosophical sense
(see Harnack, Dogmengeschichte, Prolegomena, v. 4). For the first Fathers of the Church themselves
the immortality of the soul was not a thing pertaining to the natural order; the teaching of
the Divine Scriptures, as Nimesius said, sufficed for its demonstration, and it was, according
to Lactantius, a gift--and as such gratuitous--of God. But more of this later.

Christianity sprang, as we have said, from two great spiritual streams--the Judaic and the
Hellenic--each one of which had arrived on its account, if not at a precise definition of,
at any rate at a definite yearning for, another life. Among the Jews faith in another life
was neither general nor clear; but they were led to it by faith in a personal and living God,
the formation of which faith comprises all their spiritual history.

Jahwé, the Judaic God, began by being one god among many others--the God of the people of Israel,
revealed among the thunders of the tempest on Mount Sinai. But he was so jealous that he demanded
that worship should be paid to him alone, and it was by way of monocultism that the Jews arrived
at monotheism. He was adored as a living force, not as a metaphysical entity, and he was the
god of battles. But this God of social and martial origin, to whose genesis we shall have to
return later, became more inward and personal in the prophets, and in becoming more inward
and personal he thereby became more individual and more universal. He is the Jahwé who, instead
of loving Israel because Israel is his son, takes Israel for a son because he loves him (Hosea
xi. 1). And faith in the personal God, in the Father of men, carries with it faith in the eternalization
of the individual man--a faith which had already dawned in Pharisaism even before Christ.

Hellenic culture, on its side, ended by discovering death; and to discover death is to discover
the hunger of immortality. This longing does not appear in the Homeric poems, which are not
initial, but final, in their character, marking not the start but the close of a civilization.
They indicate the transition from the old religion of Nature, of Zeus, to the more spiritual
religion of Apollo--of redemption. But the popular and inward religion of the Eleusinian mysteries,
the worship of souls and ancestors, always persisted underneath. "In so far as it is possible
to speak of a Delphic theology, among its more important elements must be counted the belief
in the continuation of the life of souls after death in its popular forms, and in the worship
of the souls of the dead."[13] There were the Titanic and the Dionysiac elements, and it was
the duty of man, according to the Orphic doctrine, to free himself from the fetters of the
body, in which the soul was like a captive in a prison (see Rohde, Psyche, "Die Orphiker,"
4). The Nietzschean idea of eternal recurrence is an Orphic idea. But the idea of the immortality
of the soul was not a philosophical principle. The attempt of Empedocles to harmonize a hylozoistic
system with spiritualism proved that a philosophical natural science cannot by itself lead
to a corroboration of the axiom of the perpetuity of the individual soul; it could only serve
as a support to a theological speculation. It was by a contradiction that the first Greek philosophers
affirmed immortality, by abandoning natural philosophy and intruding into theology, by formulating
not an Apollonian but a Dionysiac and Orphic dogma. But "an immortality of the soul as such,
in virtue of its own nature and condition as an imperishable divine force in the mortal body,
was never an object of popular Hellenic belief" (Rohde, op. cit.).

Recall the Phædo of Plato and the neo-platonic lucubrations. In them the yearning for personal
immortality already shows itself--a yearning which, as it was left totally unsatisfied by reason,
produced the Hellenic pessimism. For, as Pfleiderer very well observes (Religionsphilosophie
auf geschichtliche Grundlage, 3. Berlin, 1896), "no people ever came upon the earth so serene
and sunny as the Greeks in the youthful days of their historical existence ... but no people
changed so completely their idea of the value of life. The Hellenism which ended in the religious
speculations of neo-pythagorism and neo-platonism viewed this world, which had once appeared
to it so joyous and radiant, as an abode of darkness and error, and earthly existence as a
period of trial which could never be too quickly traversed." Nirvana is an Hellenic idea.

Thus Jews and Greeks each arrived independently at the real discovery of death--a discovery
which occasions, in peoples as in men, the entrance into spiritual puberty, the realization
of the tragic sense of life, and it is then that the living God is begotten by humanity. The
discovery of death is that which reveals God to us, and the death of the perfect man, Christ,
was the supreme revelation of death, being the death of the man who ought not to have died
yet did die.

Such a discovery--that of immortality--prepared as it was by the Judaic and Hellenic religious
processes, was a specifically Christian discovery. And its full achievement was due above all
to Paul of Tarsus, the hellenizing Jew and Pharisee. Paul had not personally known Jesus, and
hence he discovered him as Christ. "It may be said that the theology of the Apostle Paul is,
in general, the first Christian theology. For him it was a necessity; it was, in a certain
sense, his substitution for the lack of a personal knowledge of Jesus," says Weizsäcker (Das
apostolische Zeitalter der christlichen Kirche. Freiburg-i.-B., 1892). He did not know Jesus,
but he felt him born again in himself, and thus he could say, "Nevertheless I live, yet not
I, but Christ liveth in me."[14] And he preached the Cross, unto the Jews a stumbling-block,
and unto the Greeks foolishness (I Cor. i. 23), and the central doctrine for the converted
Apostle was that of the resurrection of Christ. The important thing for him was that Christ
had been made man and had died and had risen again, and not what he did in his life--not his
ethical work as a teacher, but his religious work as a giver of immortality. If in this life
only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable" (I Cor. xv. 12-19).

And it is possible to affirm that thenceforward he who does not believe in the bodily resurrection
of Christ may be Christophile but cannot be specifically Christian. It is true that a Justin
Martyr could say that "all those are Christians who live in accordance with reason, even though
they may be deemed to be atheists, as, among the Greeks, Socrates and Heraclitus and other
such"; but this martyr, is he a martyr--that is to say a witness--of Christianity? No.

And it was around this dogma, inwardly experienced by Paul, the dogma of the resurrection and
immortality of Christ, the guarantee of the resurrection and immortality of each believer,
that the whole of Christology was built up. The God-man, the incarnate Word, came in order
that man, according to his mode, might be made God--that is, immortal. And the Christian God,
the Father of Christ, a God necessarily anthropomorphic, is He who--as the Catechism of Christian
Doctrine which we were made to learn by heart at school says--created the world for man, for
each man. And the end of redemption, in spite of appearances due to an ethical deflection of
a dogma properly religious, was to save us from death rather than from sin, or from sin in
so far as sin implies death. And Christ died, or rather rose again, for me, for each one of
us. And a certain solidarity was established between God and His creature. Malebranche said
that the first man fell in order that Christ might redeem us, rather than that Christ redeemed
us because man had fallen.

After the death of Paul years passed, and generations of Christianity wrought upon this central
dogma and its consequences in order to safeguard faith in the immortality of the individual
soul, and the Council of Nicæa came, and with it the formidable Athanasius, whose name is still
a battle-cry, an incarnation of the popular faith. Athanasius was a man of little learning
but of great faith, and above all of popular faith, devoured by the hunger of immortality.
And he opposed Arianism, which, like Unitarian and Socinian Protestantism, threatened, although
unknowingly and unintentionally, the foundation of that belief. For the Arians, Christ was
first and foremost a teacher--a teacher of morality, the wholly perfect man, and therefore
the guarantee that we may all attain to supreme perfection; but Athanasius felt that Christ
cannot make us gods if he has not first made himself God; if his Divinity had been communicated,
he could not have communicated it to us. "He was not, therefore," he said, "first man and then
became God; but He was first God and then became man in order that He might the better deify
us (theopoiêsê)" (Orat. i. 39). It was not the Logos of the philosophers, the cosmological
Logos, that Athanasius knew and adored;[15] and thus he instituted a separation between nature
and revelation. The Athanasian or Nicene Christ, who is the Catholic Christ, is not the cosmological,
nor even, strictly, the ethical Christ; he is the eternalizing, the deifying, the religious
Christ. Harnack says of this Christ, the Christ of Nicene or Catholic Christology, that he
is essentially docetic--that is, apparential--because the process of the divinization of the
man in Christ was made in the interests of eschatology. But which is the real Christ? Is it,
indeed, that so-called historical Christ of rationalist exegesis who is diluted for us in a
myth or in a social atom?

This same Harnack, a Protestant rationalist, tells us that Arianism or Unitarianism would have
been the death of Christianity, reducing it to cosmology and ethics, and that it served only
as a bridge whereby the learned might pass over to Catholicism--that is to say, from reason
to faith. To this same learned historian of dogmas it appears to be an indication of a perverse
state of things that the man Athanasius, who saved Christianity as the religion of a living
communion with God, should have obliterated the Jesus of Nazareth, the historical Jesus, whom
neither Paul nor Athanasius knew personally, nor yet Harnack himself. Among Protestants, this
historical Jesus is subjected to the scalpel of criticism, while the Catholic Christ lives,
the really historical Christ, he who lives throughout the centuries guaranteeing the faith
in personal immortality and personal salvation.

And Athanasius had the supreme audacity of faith, that of asserting things mutually contradictory:
"The complete contradiction that exists in the homoousios carried in its train a whole army
of contradictions which increased as thought advanced," says Harnack. Yes, so it was, and so
it had to be. And he adds: "Dogma took leave for ever of clear thinking and tenable concepts,
and habituated itself to the contra-rational." In truth, it drew closer to life, which is contra-rational
and opposed to clear thinking. Not only are judgements of worth never rationalizable--they
are anti-rational.

At Nicæa, then, as afterwards at the Vatican, victory rested with the idiots--taking this word
in its proper, primitive, and etymological sense--the simple-minded, the rude and headstrong
bishops, the representatives of the genuine human spirit, the popular spirit, the spirit that
does not want to die, in spite of whatever reason may say, and that seeks a guarantee, the
most material possible, for this desire.

Quid ad æternitatem? This is the capital question. In the cemetery of Mallona, in my native
town of Bilbao, there is a tombstone on which this verse is carved:

    Aunque estamos en polvo convertidos,
    en Ti, Señor, nuestra esperanza fía,
    que tornaremos a vivir vestidos
    con la carne y la piel que nos cubria.[16]

"With the same bodies and souls that they had," as the Catechism says. So much so, that it
is orthodox Catholic doctrine that the happiness of the blessed is not perfectly complete until
they recover their bodies. They lament in heaven, says our Brother Pedro Malón de Chaide of
the Order of St. Augustine, a Spaniard and a Basque,[17] and "this lament springs from their
not being perfectly whole in heaven, for only the soul is there; and although they cannot suffer,
because they see God, in whom they unspeakably delight, yet with all this it appears that they
are not wholly content. They will be so when they are clothed with their own bodies."

And to this central dogma of the resurrection in Christ and by Christ corresponds likewise
a central sacrament, the axis of popular Catholic piety--the Sacrament of the Eucharist. In
it is administered the body of Christ, which is the bread of immortality.

This sacrament is genuinely realist--dinglich, as the Germans would say--which may without
great violence be translated "material." It is the sacrament most genuinely ex opere operato,
for which is substituted among Protestants the idealistic sacrament of the word. Fundamentally
it is concerned with--and I say it with all possible respect, but without wishing to sacrifice
the expressiveness of the phrase--the eating and drinking of God, the Eternalizer, the feeding
upon Him. Little wonder then if St. Teresa tells us that when she was communicating in the
monastery of the Incarnation and in the second year of her being Prioress there, on the octave
of St. Martin, and the Father, Fr. Juan de la Cruz, divided the Host between her and another
sister, she thought that it was done not because there was any want of Hosts, but because he
wished to mortify her, "for I had told him how much I delighted in Hosts of a large size. Yet
I was not ignorant that the size of the Host is of no moment, for I knew that our Lord is whole
and entire in the smallest particle." Here reason pulls one way, feeling another. And what
importance for this feeling have the thousand and one difficulties that arise from reflecting
rationally upon the mystery of this sacrament? What is a divine body? And the body, in so far
as it is the body of Christ, is it divine? What is an immortal and immortalizing body? What
is substance separated from the accidents? Nowadays we have greatly refined our notion of materiality
and substantiality; but there were even some among the Fathers of the Church to whom the immateriality
of God Himself was not a thing so clear and definite as it is for us. And this sacrament of
the Eucharist is the immortalizing sacrament par excellence, and therefore the axis of popular
Catholic piety, and if it may be so said, the most specifically religious of sacraments.

For what is specific in the Catholic religion is immortalization and not justification, in
the Protestant sense. Rather is this latter ethical. It was from Kant, in spite of what orthodox
Protestants may think of him, that Protestantism derived its penultimate conclusions--namely,
that religion rests upon morality, and not morality upon religion, as in Catholicism.

The preoccupation of sin has never been such a matter of anguish, or at any rate has never
displayed itself with such an appearance of anguish, among Catholics. The sacrament of Confession
contributes to this. And there persists, perhaps, among Catholics more than among Protestants
the substance of the primitive Judaic and pagan conception of sin as something material and
infectious and hereditary, which is cured by baptism and absolution. In Adam all his posterity
sinned, almost materially, and his sin was transmitted as a material disease is transmitted.
Renan, whose education was Catholic, was right, therefore, in calling to account the Protestant
Amiel who accused him of not giving due importance to sin. And, on the other hand, Protestantism,
absorbed in this preoccupation with justification, which in spite of its religious guise was
taken more in an ethical sense than anything else, ends by neutralizing and almost obliterating
eschatology; it abandons the Nicene symbol, falls into an anarchy of creeds, into pure religious
individualism and a vague esthetic, ethical, or cultured religiosity. What we may call "other-worldliness"
(Jenseitigkeit) was obliterated little by little by "this-worldliness" (Diesseitigkeit); and
this in spite of Kant, who wished to save it, but by destroying it. To its earthly vocation
and passive trust in God is due the religious coarseness of Lutheranism, which was almost at
the point of expiring in the age of the Enlightenment, of the Aufklärung, and which pietism,
infusing into it something of the religious sap of Catholicism, barely succeeded in galvanizing
a little. Hence the exactness of the remarks of Oliveira Martins in his magnificent History
of Iberian Civilization, in which he says (book iv., chap, iii.) that "Catholicism produced
heroes and Protestantism produced societies that are sensible, happy, wealthy, free, as far
as their outer institutions go, but incapable of any great action, because their religion has
begun by destroying in the heart of man all that made him capable of daring and noble self-sacrifice."

Take any of the dogmatic systems that have resulted from the latest Protestant dissolvent analysis--that
of Kaftan, the follower of Ritschl, for example--and note the extent to which eschatology is
reduced. And his master, Albrecht Ritschl, himself says: "The question regarding the necessity
of justification or forgiveness can only be solved by conceiving eternal life as the direct
end and aim of that divine operation. But if the idea of eternal life be applied merely to
our state in the next life, then its content, too, lies beyond all experience, and cannot form
the basis of knowledge of a scientific kind. Hopes and desires, though marked by the strongest
subjective certainty, are not any the clearer for that, and contain in themselves no guarantee
of the completeness of what one hopes or desires. Clearness and completeness of idea, however,
are the conditions of comprehending anything--i.e., of understanding the necessary connection
between the various elements of a thing, and between the thing and its given presuppositions.
The Evangelical article of belief, therefore, that justification by faith establishes or brings
with it assurance of eternal life, is of no use theologically, so long as this purposive aspect
of justification cannot be verified in such experience as is possible now" (Rechtfertigung
und Versöhnung, vol. iii., chap. vii., 52). All this is very rational, but ...

In the first edition of Melanchthon's Loci Communes, that of 1521, the first Lutheran theological
work, its author omits all Trinitarian and Christological speculations, the dogmatic basis
of eschatology. And Dr. Hermann, professor at Marburg, the author of a book on the Christian's
commerce with God (Der Verkehr des Christen mit Gott)--a book the first chapter of which treats
of the opposition between mysticism and the Christian religion, and which is, according to
Harnack, the most perfect Lutheran manual--tells us in another place,[18] referring to this
Christological (or Athanasian) speculation, that "the effective knowledge of God and of Christ,
in which knowledge faith lives, is something entirely different. Nothing ought to find a place
in Christian doctrine that is not capable of helping man to recognize his sins, to obtain the
grace of God, and to serve Him in truth. Until that time--that is to say, until Luther--the
Church had accepted much as doctrina sacra which cannot absolutely contribute to confer upon
man liberty of heart and tranquillity of conscience." For my part, I cannot conceive the liberty
of a heart or the tranquillity of a conscience that are not sure of their perdurability after
death. "The desire for the soul's salvation," Hermann continues, "must at last have led men
to the knowledge and understanding of the effective doctrine of salvation." And in his book
on the Christian's commerce with God, this eminent Lutheran doctor is continually discoursing
upon trust in God, peace of conscience, and an assurance of salvation that is not strictly
and precisely certainty of everlasting life, but rather certainty of the forgiveness of sins.

And I have read in a Protestant theologian, Ernst Troeltsch, that in the conceptual order Protestantism
has attained its highest reach in music, in which art Bach has given it its mightiest artistic
expression. This, then, is what Protestantism dissolves into--celestial music![19] On the other
hand we may say that the highest artistic expression of Catholicism, or at least of Spanish
Catholicism, is in the art that is most material, tangible, and permanent--for the vehicle
of sounds is air--in sculpture and painting, in the Christ of Velasquez, that Christ who is
for ever dying, yet never finishes dying, in order that he may give us life.

And yet Catholicism does not abandon ethics. No! No modern religion can leave ethics on one
side. But our religion--although its doctors may protest against this--is fundamentally and
for the most part a compromise between eschatology and ethics; it is eschatology pressed into
the service of ethics. What else but this is that atrocity of the eternal pains of hell, which
agrees so ill with the Pauline apocatastasis? Let us bear in mind those words which the Theologica
Germanica, the manual of mysticism that Luther read, puts into the mouth of God: "If I must
recompense your evil, I must recompense it with good, for I am and have none other." And Christ
said: "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do," and there is no man who perhaps
knows what he does. But it has been necessary, for the benefit of the social order, to convert
religion into a kind of police system, and hence hell. Oriental or Greek Christianity is predominantly
eschatological, Protestantism predominantly ethical, and Catholicism is a compromise between
the two, although with the eschatological element preponderating. The most authentic Catholic
ethic, monastic asceticism, is an ethic of eschatology, directed to the salvation of the individual
soul rather than to the maintenance of society. And in the cult of virginity may there not
perhaps be a certain obscure idea that to perpetuate ourselves in others hinders our own personal
perpetuation? The ascetic morality is a negative morality. And, strictly, what is important
for a man is not to die, whether he sins or not. It is not necessary to take very literally,
but as a lyrical, or rather rhetorical, effusion, the words of our famous sonnet--

    No me mueve, mi Dios, para quererte
    el cielo que me tienes prometido,[20]

and the rest that follows.

The real sin--perhaps it is the sin against the Holy Ghost for which there is no remission--is
the sin of heresy, the sin of thinking for oneself. The saying has been heard before now, here
in Spain, that to be a liberal--that is, a heretic--is worse than being an assassin, a thief,
or an adulterer. The gravest sin is not to obey the Church, whose infallibility protects us
from reason.

And why be scandalized by the infallibility of a man, of the Pope? What difference does it
make whether it be a book that is infallible--the Bible, or a society of men--the Church, or
a single man? Does it make any essential change in the rational difficulty? And since the infallibility
of a book or of a society of men is not more rational than that of a single man, this supreme
offence in the eyes of reason had to be posited.

It is the vital asserting itself, and in order to assert itself it creates, with the help of
its enemy, the rational, a complete dogmatic structure, and this the Church defends against
rationalism, against Protestantism, and against Modernism. The Church defends life. It stood
up against Galileo, and it did right; for his discovery, in its inception and until it became
assimilated to the general body of human knowledge, tended to shatter the anthropomorphic belief
that the universe was created for man. It opposed Darwin, and it did right, for Darwinism tends
to shatter our belief that man is an exceptional animal, created expressly to be eternalized.
And lastly, Pius IX., the first Pontiff to be proclaimed infallible, declared that he was irreconcilable
with the so-called modern civilization. And he did right.

Loisy, the Catholic ex-abbé, said: "I say simply this, that the Church and theology have not
looked with favour upon the scientific movement, and that on certain decisive occasions, so
far as it lay in their power, they have hindered it. I say, above all, that Catholic teaching
has not associated itself with, or accommodated itself to, this movement. Theology has conducted
itself, and conducts itself still, as if it were self-possessed of a science of nature and
a science of history, together with that general philosophy of nature and history which results
from a scientific knowledge of them. It might be supposed that the domain of theology and that
of science, distinct in principle and even as defined by the Vatican Council, must not be distinct
in practice. Everything proceeds almost as if theology had nothing to learn from modern science,
natural or historical, and as if by itself it had the power and the right to exercise a direct
and absolute control over all the activities of the human mind" (Autour d'un Petit Livre, 1903,
p. 211).

And such must needs be, and such in fact is, the Church's attitude in its struggle with Modernism,
of which Loisy was the learned and leading exponent.

The recent struggle against Kantian and fideist Modernism is a struggle for life. Is it indeed
possible for life, life that seeks assurance of survival, to tolerate that a Loisy, a Catholic
priest, should affirm that the resurrection of the Saviour is not a fact of the historical
order, demonstrable and demonstrated by the testimony of history alone? Read, moreover, the
exposition of the central dogma, that of the resurrection of Jesus, in E. Le Roy's excellent
work, Dogme et Critique, and tell me if any solid ground is left for our hope to build on.
Do not the Modernists see that the question at issue is not so much that of the immortal life
of Christ, reduced, perhaps, to a life in the collective Christian consciousness, as that of
a guarantee of our own personal resurrection of body as well as soul? This new psychological
apologetic appeals to the moral miracle, and we, like the Jews, seek for a sign, something
that can be taken hold of with all the powers of the soul and with all the senses of the body.
And with the hands and the feet and the mouth, if it be possible.

But alas! we do not get it. Reason attacks, and faith, which does not feel itself secure without
reason, has to come to terms with it. And hence come those tragic contradictions and lacerations
of consciousness. We need security, certainty, signs, and they give us motiva credibilitatis--motives
of credibility--upon which to establish the rationale obsequium, and although faith precedes
reason (fides præcedit rationem), according to St. Augustine, this same learned doctor and
bishop sought to travel by faith to understanding (per fidem ad intellectum), and to believe
in order to understand (credo ut intelligam). How far is this from that superb expression of
Tertullian--et sepultus resurrexit, certum est quia impossibile est!--"and he was buried and
rose again; it is certain because it is impossible!" and his sublime credo quia absurdum!--the
scandal of the rationalists. How far from the il faut s'abêtir of Pascal and from the "human
reason loves the absurd" of our Donoso Cortés, which he must have learned from the great Joseph
de Maistre!

And a first foundation-stone was sought in the authority of tradition and the revelation of
the word of God, and the principle of unanimous consent was arrived at. Quod apud multos unum
invenitur, non est erratum, sed traditum, said Tertullian; and Lamennais added, centuries later,
that "certitude, the principle of life and intelligence ... is, if I may be allowed the expression,
a social product."[21] But here, as in so many cases, the supreme formula was given by that
great Catholic, whose Catholicism was of the popular and vital order, Count Joseph de Maistre,
when he wrote: "I do not believe that it is possible to show a single opinion of universal
utility that is not true."[22] Here you have the Catholic hall-mark--the deduction of the truth
of a principle from its supreme goodness or utility. And what is there of greater, of more
sovereign utility, than the immortality of the soul? "As all is uncertain, either we must believe
all men or none," said Lactantius; but that great mystic and ascetic, Blessed Heinrich Seuse,
the Dominican, implored the Eternal Wisdom for one word affirming that He was love, and when
the answer came, "All creatures proclaim that I am love," Seuse replied, "Alas! Lord, that
does not suffice for a yearning soul." Faith feels itself secure neither with universal consent,
nor with tradition, nor with authority. It seeks the support of its enemy, reason.

And thus scholastic theology was devised, and with it its handmaiden--ancilla theologiæ--scholastic
philosophy, and this handmaiden turned against her mistress. Scholasticism, a magnificent cathedral,
in which all the problems of architectonic mechanism were resolved for future ages, but a cathedral
constructed of unbaked bricks, gave place little by little to what is called natural theology
and is merely Christianity depotentialized. The attempt was even made, where it was possible,
to base dogmas upon reason, to show at least that if they were indeed super-rational they were
not contra-rational, and they were reinforced with a philosophical foundation of Aristotelian-Neoplatonic
thirteenth-century philosophy. And such is the Thomism recommended by Leo XIII. And now the
question is not one of the enforcement of dogma but of its philosophical, medieval, and Thomist
interpretation. It is not enough to believe that in receiving the consecrated Host we receive
the body and blood of our Lord Jesus Christ; we must needs negotiate all those difficulties
of transubstantiation and substance separated from accidents, and so break with the whole of
the modern rational conception of substantiality.

But for this, implicit faith suffices--the faith of the coalheaver,[23] the faith of those
who, like St. Teresa (Vida, cap. xxv. 2), do not wish to avail themselves of theology. "Do
not ask me the reason of that, for I am ignorant; Holy Mother Church possesses doctors who
will know how to answer you," as we were made to learn in the Catechism. It was for this, among
other things, that the priesthood was instituted, that the teaching Church might be the depositary--"reservoir
instead of river," as Phillips Brooks said--of theological secrets. "The work of the Nicene
Creed," says Harnack (Dogmengeschichte, ii. 1, cap. vii. 3), "was a victory of the priesthood
over the faith of the Christian people. The doctrine of the Logos had already become unintelligible
to those who were not theologians. The setting up of the Niceno-Cappadocian formula as the
fundamental confession of the Church made it perfectly impossible for the Catholic laity to
get an inner comprehension of the Christian Faith, taking as their guide the form in which
it was presented in the doctrine of the Church. The idea became more and more deeply implanted
in men's minds that Christianity was the revelation of the unintelligible." And so, in truth,
it is.

And why was this? Because faith--that is, Life--no longer felt sure of itself. Neither traditionalism
nor the theological positivism of Duns Scotus sufficed for it; it sought to rationalize itself.
And it sought to establish its foundation--not, indeed, over against reason, where it really
is, but upon reason--that is to say, within reason--itself. The nominalist or positivist or
voluntarist position of Scotus--that which maintains that law and truth depend, not so much
upon the essence as upon the free and inscrutable will of God--by accentuating its supreme
irrationality, placed religion in danger among the majority of believers endowed with mature
reason and not mere coalheavers. Hence the triumph of the Thomist theological rationalism.
It is no longer enough to believe in the existence of God; but the sentence of anathema falls
on him who, though believing in it, does not believe that His existence is demonstrable by
rational arguments, or who believes that up to the present nobody by means of these rational
arguments has ever demonstrated it irrefutably. However, in this connection the remark of Pohle
is perhaps capable of application: "If eternal salvation depended upon mathematical axioms,
we should have to expect that the most odious human sophistry would attack their universal
validity as violently as it now attacks God, the soul, and Christ."[24]

The truth is, Catholicism oscillates between mysticism, which is the inward experience of the
living God in Christ, an intransmittible experience, the danger of which, however, is that
it absorbs our own personality in God, and so does not save our vital longing--between mysticism
and the rationalism which it fights against (see Weizsäcker, op. cit.); it oscillates between
religionized science and scientificized religion. The apocalyptic enthusiasm changed little
by little into neo-platonic mysticism, which theology thrust further into the background. It
feared the excesses of the imagination which was supplanting faith and creating gnostic extravagances.
But it had to sign a kind of pact with gnosticism and another with rationalism; neither imagination
nor reason allowed itself to be completely vanquished. And thus the body of Catholic dogma
became a system of contradictions, more or less successfully harmonized. The Trinity was a
kind of pact between monotheism and polytheism, and humanity and divinity sealed a peace in
Christ, nature covenanted with grace, grace with free will, free will with the Divine prescience,
and so on. And it is perhaps true, as Hermann says (loc. cit.), that "as soon as we develop
religious thought to its logical conclusions, it enters into conflict with other ideas which
belong equally to the life of religion." And this it is that gives to Catholicism its profound
vital dialectic. But at what a cost?

At the cost, it must needs be said, of doing violence to the mental exigencies of those believers
in possession of an adult reason. It demands from them that they shall believe all or nothing,
that they shall accept the complete totality of dogma or that they shall forfeit all merit
if the least part of it be rejected. And hence the result, as the great Unitarian preacher
Channing pointed out,[25] that in France and Spain there are multitudes who have proceeded
from rejecting Popery to absolute atheism, because "the fact is, that false and absurd doctrines,
when exposed, have a natural tendency to beget scepticism in those who received them without
reflection. None are so likely to believe too little as those who have begun by believing too
much." Here is, indeed, the terrible danger of believing too much. But no! the terrible danger
comes from another quarter--from seeking to believe with the reason and not with life.

The Catholic solution of our problem, of our unique vital problem, the problem of the immortality
and eternal salvation of the individual soul, satisfies the will, and therefore satisfies life;
but the attempt to rationalize it by means of dogmatic theology fails to satisfy the reason.
And reason has its exigencies as imperious as those of life. It is no use seeking to force
ourselves to consider as super-rational what clearly appears to us to be contra-rational, neither
is it any good wishing to become coalheavers when we are not coalheavers. Infallibility, a
notion of Hellenic origin, is in its essence a rationalistic category.

Let us now consider the rationalist or scientific solution--or, more properly, dissolution--of
our problem.

FOOTNOTES:

[13] Erwin Rohde, Psyche, "Seelencult und Unsterblichkeitsglaube der Griechen." Tübingen, 1907.
Up to the present this is the leading work dealing with the belief of the Greeks in the immortality
of the soul.

[14] Gal. ii. 20.

[15] On all relating to this question see, among others, Harnack, Dogmengeschichte, ii., Teil
i., Buch vii., cap. i.

[16]

    Though we are become dust,
    In thee, O Lord, our hope confides,
    That we shall live again clad
    In the flesh and skin that once covered us.

[17] Libra de la Conversión de la Magdelena, part iv., chap. ix.

[18] In his exposition of Protestant dogma in Systematische christliche Religion, Berlin, 1909,
one of the series entitled Die Kultur der Gegenwart, published by P. Hinneberg.

[19] The common use of the expression música celestial to denote "nonsense, something not worth
listening to," lends it a satirical byplay which disappears in the English rendering.--J.E.C.F.

[20] It is not Thy promised heaven, my God, that moves me to love Thee. (Anonymous, sixteenth
or seventeenth century. See Oxford Book of Spanish Verse, No. 106.)

[21] Essai sur l'indifférence en matière de religion, part iii., chap. i.

[22] Les Soirées de Saint-Pétersbourg, x^{me} entretien.

[23] The allusion is to the traditional story of the coalheaver whom the devil sought to convince
of the irrationality of belief in the Trinity. The coalheaver took the cloak that he was wearing
and folded it in three folds. "Here are three folds," he said, "and the cloak though threefold
is yet one." And the devil departed baffled.--J.E.C.F.

[24] Joseph Pohle, "Christlich Katolische Dogmatik," in Systematische Christliche Religion,
Berlin, 1909. Die Kultur der Gegenwart series.

[25] "Objections to Unitarian Christianity Considered," 1816, in The Complete Works of William
Ellery Channing, D.D., London, 1884.

V

THE RATIONALIST DISSOLUTION

The great master of rationalist phenomenalism, David Hume, begins his essay "On the Immortality
of the Soul" with these decisive words: "It appears difficult by the mere light of reason to
prove the immortality of the soul. The arguments in favour of it are commonly derived from
metaphysical, moral, or physical considerations. But it is really the Gospel, and only the
Gospel, that has brought to light life and immortality." Which is equivalent to denying the
rationality of the belief that the soul of each one of us is immortal.

Kant, whose criticism found its point of departure in Hume, attempted to establish the rationality
of this longing for immortality and the belief that it imports; and this is the real origin,
the inward origin, of his Critique of Practical Reason, and of his categorical imperative and
of his God. But in spite of all this, the sceptical affirmation of Hume holds good. There is
no way of proving the immortality of the soul rationally. There are, on the other hand, ways
of proving rationally its mortality.

It would be not merely superfluous but ridiculous to enlarge here upon the extent to which
the individual human consciousness is dependent upon the physical organism, pointing out how
it comes to birth by slow degrees according as the brain receives impressions from the outside
world, how it is temporarily suspended during sleep, swoons, and other accidents, and how everything
leads us to the rational conjecture that death carries with it the loss of consciousness. And
just as before our birth we were not, nor have we any personal pre-natal memory, so after our
death we shall cease to be. This is the rational position.

The designation "soul" is merely a term used to denote the individual consciousness in its
integrity and continuity; and that this soul undergoes change, that in like manner as it is
integrated so it is disintegrated, is a thing very evident. For Aristotle it was the substantial
form of the body--the entelechy, but not a substance. And more than one modern has called it
an epiphenomenon--an absurd term. The appellation phenomenon suffices.

Rationalism--and by rationalism I mean the doctrine that abides solely by reason, by objective
truth--is necessarily materialist. And let not idealists be scandalized thereby.

The truth is--it is necessary to be perfectly explicit in this matter--that what we call materialism
means for us nothing else but the doctrine which denies the immortality of the individual soul,
the persistence of personal consciousness after death.

In another sense it may be said that, as we know what matter is no more than we know what spirit
is, and as matter is for us merely an idea, materialism is idealism. In fact, and as regards
our problem--the most vital, the only really vital problem--it is all the same to say that
everything is matter as to say that everything is idea, or that everything is energy, or whatever
you please. Every monist system will always seem to us materialist. The immortality of the
soul is saved only by the dualist systems--those which teach that human consciousness is something
substantially distinct and different from the other manifestations of phenomena. And reason
is naturally monist. For it is the function of reason to understand and explain the universe,
and in order to understand and explain it, it is in no way necessary for the soul to be an
imperishable substance. For the purpose of explaining and understanding our psychic life, for
psychology, the hypothesis of the soul is unnecessary. What was formerly called rational psychology,
in opposition to empirical psychology, is not psychology but metaphysics, and very muddy metaphysics;
neither is it rational, but profoundly irrational, or rather contra-rational.

The pretended rational doctrine of the substantiality and spirituality of the soul, with all
the apparatus that accompanies it, is born simply of the necessity which men feel of grounding
upon reason their inexpugnable longing for immortality and the subsequent belief in it. All
the sophistries which aim at proving that the soul is substance, simple and incorruptible,
proceed from this source. And further, the very concept of substance, as it was fixed and defined
by scholasticism, a concept which does not bear criticism, is a theological concept, designed
expressly to sustain faith in the immortality of the soul.

Now, leaving on one side the question as to whether it is good theology--and I do not say good
reasoning because all this lies outside the sphere of reason--to confound the substance of
the body--the body, not the soul--of Christ with the very substance of Divinity--that is to
say, with God Himself--it would appear impossible that one so ardently desirous of the immortality
of the soul as William James, a man whose whole philosophy aims simply at establishing this
belief on rational grounds, should not have perceived that the pragmatic application of the
concept of substance to the doctrine of the Eucharistic transubstantiation is merely a consequence
of its anterior application to the doctrine of the immortality of the soul. As I explained
in the preceding chapter, the Sacrament of the Eucharist is simply the reflection of the belief
in immortality; it is, for the believer, the proof, by a mystical experience, that the soul
is immortal and will enjoy God eternally. And the concept of substance was born, above all
and before all, of the concept of the substantiality of the soul, and the latter was affirmed
in order to confirm faith in the persistence of the soul after its separation from the body.
Such was at the same time its first pragmatic application and its origin. And subsequently
we have transferred this concept to external things. It is because I feel myself to be substance--that
is to say, permanent in the midst of my changes--that I attribute substantiality to those agents
exterior to me, which are also permanent in the midst of their changes--just as the concept
of force is born of my sensation of personal effort in putting a thing in motion.

Read carefully in the first part of the Summa Theologica of St. Thomas Aquinas the first six
articles of question lxxv., which discuss whether the human soul is body, whether it is something
self-subsistent, whether such also is the soul of the lower animals, whether the soul is the
man, whether the soul is composed of matter and form, and whether it is incorruptible, and
then say if all this is not subtly intended to support the belief that this incorruptible substantiality
of the soul renders it capable of receiving from God immortality, for it is clear that as He
created it when He implanted it in the body, as St. Thomas says, so at its separation from
the body He could annihilate it. And as the criticism of these proofs has been undertaken a
hundred times, it is unnecessary to repeat it here.

Is it possible for the unforewarned reason to conclude that our soul is a substance from the
fact that our consciousness of our identity--and this within very narrow and variable limits--persists
through all the changes of our body? We might as well say of a ship that put out to sea and
lost first one piece of timber, which was replaced by another of the same shape and dimensions,
then lost another, and so on with all her timbers, and finally returned to port the same ship,
with the same build, the same sea-going qualities, recognizable by everybody as the same--we
might as well say of such a ship that it had a substantial soul. Is it possible for the unforewarned
reason to infer the simplicity of the soul from the fact that we have to judge and unify our
thoughts? Thought is not one but complex, and for the reason the soul is nothing but the succession
of co-ordinated states of consciousness.

In books of psychology written from the spiritualist point of view, it is customary to begin
the discussion of the existence of the soul as a simple substance, separable from the body,
after this style: There is in me a principle which thinks, wills, and feels.... Now this implies
a begging of the question. For it is far from being an immediate truth that there is in me
such a principle; the immediate truth is that I think, will, and feel. And I--the I that thinks,
wills, and feels--am immediately my living body with the states of consciousness which it sustains.
It is my living body that thinks, wills, and feels. How? How you please.

And they proceed to seek to establish the substantiality of the soul, hypostatizing the states
of consciousness, and they begin by saying that this substance must be simple--that is, by
opposing thought to extension, after the manner of the Cartesian dualism. And as Balmes was
one of the spiritualist writers who have given the clearest and most concise form to the argument,
I will present it as he expounds it in the second chapter of his Curso de Filosofia Elemental.
"The human soul is simple," he says, and adds: "Simplicity consists in the absence of parts,
and the soul has none. Let us suppose that it has three parts--A, B, C. I ask, Where, then,
does thought reside? If in A only, then B and C are superfluous; and consequently the simple
subject A will be the soul. If thought resides in A, B, and C, it follows that thought is divided
into parts, which is absurd. What sort of a thing is a perception, a comparison, a judgement,
a ratiocination, distributed among three subjects?" A more obvious begging of the question
cannot be conceived. Balmes begins by taking it for granted that the whole, as a whole, is
incapable of making a judgement. He continues: "The unity of consciousness is opposed to the
division of the soul. When we think, there is a subject which knows everything that it thinks,
and this is impossible if parts be attributed to it. Of the thought that is in A, B and C will
know nothing, and so in the other cases respectively. There will not, therefore, be one consciousness
of the whole thought: each part will have its special consciousness, and there will be within
us as many thinking beings as there are parts." The begging of the question continues; it is
assumed without any proof that a whole, as a whole, cannot perceive as a unit. Balmes then
proceeds to ask if these parts A, B, and C are simple or compound, and repeats his argument
until he arrives at the conclusion that the thinking subject must be a part which is not a
whole--that is, simple. The argument is based, as will be seen, upon the unity of apperception
and of judgement. Subsequently he endeavours to refute the hypothesis of a communication of
the parts among themselves.

Balmes--and with him the a priori spiritualists who seek to rationalize faith in the immortality
of the soul--ignore the only rational explanation, which is that apperception and judgement
are a resultant, that perceptions or ideas themselves are components which agree. They begin
by supposing something external to and distinct from the states of consciousness, something
that is not the living body which supports these states, something that is not I but is within me.

The soul is simple, others say, because it reflects upon itself as a complete whole. No; the
state of consciousness A, in which I think of my previous state of consciousness B, is not
the same as its predecessor. Or if I think of my soul, I think of an idea distinct from the
act by which I think of it. To think that one thinks and nothing more, is not to think.

The soul is the principle of life, it is said. Yes; and similarly the category of force or
energy has been conceived as the principle of movement. But these are concepts, not phenomena,
not external realities. Does the principle of movement move? And only that which moves has
external reality. Does the principle of life live? Hume was right when he said that he never
encountered this idea of himself--that he only observed himself desiring or performing or feeling
something.[27] The idea of some individual thing--of this inkstand in front of me, of that
horse standing at my gate, of these two and not of any other individuals of the same class--is
the fact, the phenomenon itself. The idea of myself is myself.

All the efforts to substantiate consciousness, making it independent of extension--remember
that Descartes opposed thought to extension--are but sophistical subtilties intended to establish
the rationality of faith in the immortality of the soul. It is sought to give the value of
objective reality to that which does not possess it--to that whose reality exists only in thought.
And the immortality that we crave is a phenomenal immortality--it is the continuation of this
present life.

The unity of consciousness is for scientific psychology--the only rational psychology--simply
a phenomenal unity. No one can say what a substantial unity is. And, what is more, no one can
say what a substance is. For the notion of substance is a non-phenomenal category. It is a
noumenon and belongs properly to the unknowable--that is to say, according to the sense in
which it is understood. But in its transcendental sense it is something really unknowable and
strictly irrational. It is precisely this concept of substance that an unforewarned mind reduces
to a use that is very far from that pragmatic application to which William James referred.

And this application is not saved by understanding it in an idealistic sense, according to
the Berkeleyan principle that to be is to be perceived (esse est percipi). To say that everything
is idea or that everything is spirit, is the same as saying that everything is matter or that
everything is energy, for if everything is idea or everything spirit, and if, therefore, this
diamond is idea or spirit, just as my consciousness is, it is not plain why the diamond should
not endure for ever, if my consciousness, because it is idea or spirit, endures for ever.

George Berkeley, Anglican Bishop of Cloyne and brother in spirit to the Anglican bishop Joseph
Butler, was equally as anxious to save the belief in the immortality of the soul. In paragraph
cxl. he lays it down that we have an idea, or rather a notion, of spirit, and that we know
other spirits by means of our own, from which follows--so in the next paragraph he roundly
affirms--the natural immortality of the soul. And here he enters upon a series of confusions
arising from the ambiguity with which he invests the term notion. And after having established
the immortality of the soul, almost as it were per saltum, on the ground that the soul is not
passive like the body, he proceeds to tell us in paragraph cxlvii. that the existence of God
is more evident than that of man. And yet, in spite of this, there are still some who are doubtful!

The question was complicated by making consciousness a property of the soul, consciousness
being something more than soul--that is to say, a substantial form of the body, the originator
of all the organic functions of the body. The soul not only thinks, feels, and wills, but moves
the body and prompts its vital functions; in the human soul are united the vegetative, animal,
and rational functions. Such is the theory. But the soul separated from the body can have neither
vegetative nor animal functions.

A theory, in short, which for the reason is a veritable contexture of confusions.

After the Renaissance and the restoration of purely rational thought, emancipated from all
theology, the doctrine of the mortality of the soul was re-established by the newly published
writings of the second-century philosopher Alexander of Aphrodisias and by Pietro Pomponazzi
and others. And in point of fact, little or nothing can be added to what Pomponazzi has written
in his Tractatus de immortalitate animæ. It is reason itself, and it serves nothing to reiterate
his arguments.

Attempts have not been wanting, however, to find an empirical support for belief in the immortality
of the soul, and among these may be counted the work of Frederic W.H. Myers on Human Personality
and its Survival of Bodily Death. No one ever approached more eagerly than myself the two thick
volumes of this work in which the leading spirit of the Society for Psychical Research resumed
that formidable mass of data relating to presentiments, apparitions of the dead, the phenomena
of dreams, telepathy, hypnotism, sensorial automatism, ecstasy, and all the rest that goes
to furnish the spiritualist arsenal. I entered upon the reading of it not only without that
temper of cautious suspicion which men of science maintain in investigations of this character,
but even with a predisposition in its favour, as one who comes to seek the confirmation of
his innermost longings; but for this reason was my disillusion all the greater. In spite of
its critical apparatus it does not differ in any respect from medieval miracle-mongering. There
is a fundamental defect of method, of logic.

And if the belief in the immortality of the soul has been unable to find vindication in rational
empiricism, neither is it satisfied with pantheism. To say that everything is God, and that
when we die we return to God, or, more accurately, continue in Him, avails our longing nothing;
for if this indeed be so, then we were in God before we were born, and if when we die we return
to where we were before being born, then the human soul, the individual consciousness, is perishable.
And since we know very well that God, the personal and conscious God of Christian monotheism,
is simply the provider, and above all the guarantor, of our immortality, pantheism is said,
and rightly said, to be merely atheism disguised; and, in my opinion, undisguised. And they
were right in calling Spinoza an atheist, for his is the most logical, the most rational, system
of pantheism.

Neither is the longing for immortality saved, but rather dissolved and submerged, by agnosticism,
or the doctrine of the unknowable, which, when it has professed to wish to leave religious
feelings scathless, has always been inspired by the most refined hypocrisy. The whole of the
first part of Spencer's First Principles, and especially the fifth chapter entitled "Reconciliation"--that
between reason and faith or science and religion being understood--is a model at the same time
of philosophical superficiality and religious insincerity, of the most refined British cant.
The unknowable, if it is something more than the merely hitherto unknown, is but a purely negative
concept, a concept of limitation. And upon this foundation no human feeling can be built up.

The science of religion, on the other hand, of religion considered as an individual and social
psychic phenomenon irrespective of the transcendental objective validity of religious affirmations,
is a science which, in explaining the origin of the belief that the soul is something that
can live disjoined from the body, has destroyed the rationality of this belief. However much
the religious man may repeat with Schleiermacher, "Science can teach thee nothing; it is for
science to learn from thee," inwardly he thinks otherwise.

From whatever side the matter is regarded, it is always found that reason confronts our longing
for personal immortality and contradicts it. And the truth is, in all strictness, that reason
is the enemy of life.

A terrible thing is intelligence. It tends to death as memory tends to stability. The living,
the absolutely unstable, the absolutely individual, is, strictly, unintelligible. Logic tends
to reduce everything to identities and genera, to each representation having no more than one
single and self-same content in whatever place, time, or relation it may occur to us. And there
is nothing that remains the same for two successive moments of its existence. My idea of God
is different each time that I conceive it. Identity, which is death, is the goal of the intellect.
The mind seeks what is dead, for what is living escapes it; it seeks to congeal the flowing
stream in blocks of ice; it seeks to arrest it. In order to analyze a body it is necessary
to extenuate or destroy it. In order to understand anything it is necessary to kill it, to
lay it out rigid in the mind. Science is a cemetery of dead ideas, even though life may issue
from them. Worms also feed upon corpses. My own thoughts, tumultuous and agitated in the innermost
recesses of my soul, once they are torn from their roots in the heart, poured out on to this
paper and there fixed in unalterable shape, are already only the corpses of thoughts. How,
then, shall reason open its portals to the revelation of life? It is a tragic combat--it is
the very essence of tragedy--this combat of life with reason. And truth? Is truth something
that is lived or that is comprehended?

It is only necessary to read the terrible Parmenides of Plato to arrive at his tragic conclusion
that "the one is and is not, and both itself and others, in relation to themselves and one
another, are and are not, and appear to be and appear not to be." All that is vital is irrational,
and all that is rational is anti-vital, for reason is essentially sceptical.

The rational, in effect, is simply the relational; reason is limited to relating irrational
elements. Mathematics is the only perfect science, inasmuch as it adds, subtracts, multiplies,
and divides numbers, but not real and substantial things, inasmuch as it is the most formal
of the sciences. Who can extract the cube root of an ash-tree?

Nevertheless we need logic, this terrible power, in order to communicate thoughts and perceptions
and even in order to think and perceive, for we think with words, we perceive with forms. To
think is to converse with oneself; and speech is social, and social are thought and logic.
But may they not perhaps possess a content, an individual matter, incommunicable and untranslatable?
And may not this be the source of their power?

The truth is that man, the prisoner of logic, without which he cannot think, has always sought
to make logic subservient to his desires, and principally to his fundamental desire. He has
always sought to hold fast to logic, and especially in the Middle Ages, in the interests of
theology and jurisprudence, both of which based themselves on what was established by authority.
It was not until very much later that logic propounded the problem of knowledge, the problem
of its own validity, the scrutiny of the metalogical foundations.

"The Western theology," Dean Stanley wrote, "is essentially logical in form and based on law.
The Eastern theology is rhetorical in form and based on philosophy. The Latin divine succeeded
to the Roman advocate. The Oriental divine succeeded to the Grecian sophist."[28]

And all the laboured arguments in support of our hunger of immortality, which pretend to be
grounded on reason or logic, are merely advocacy and sophistry.

The property and characteristic of advocacy is, in effect, to make use of logic in the interests
of a thesis that is to be defended, while, on the other hand, the strictly scientific method
proceeds from the facts, the data, presented to us by reality, in order that it may arrive,
or not arrive, as the case may be, at a certain conclusion. What is important is to define
the problem clearly, whence it follows that progress consists not seldom in undoing what has
been done. Advocacy always supposes a petitio principii, and its arguments are ad probandum.
And theology that pretends to be rational is nothing but advocacy.

Theology proceeds from dogma, and dogma, dogma, in its primitive and most direct sense, signifies
a decree, something akin to the Latin placitum, that which has seemed to the legislative authority
fitting to be law. This juridical concept is the starting-point of theology. For the theologian,
as for the advocate, dogma, law, is something given--a starting-point which admits of discussion
only in respect of its application and its most exact interpretation. Hence it follows that
the theological or advocatory spirit is in its principle dogmatical, while the strictly scientific
and purely rational spirit is sceptical, skeptikos--that is, investigative. It is so at least
in its principle, for there is the other sense of the term scepticism, that which is most usual
to-day, that of a system of doubt, suspicion, and uncertainty, and this has arisen from the
theological or advocatory use of reason, from the abuse of dogmatism. The endeavour to apply
the law of authority, the placitum, the dogma, to different and sometimes contraposed practical
necessities, is what has engendered the scepticism of doubt. It is advocacy, or what amounts
to the same thing, theology, that teaches the distrust of reason--not true science, not the
science of investigation, sceptical in the primitive and direct meaning of the word, which
hastens towards no predetermined solution nor proceeds save by the testing of hypotheses.

Take the Summa Theologica of St. Thomas, the classical monument of the theology--that is, of
the advocacy--of Catholicism, and open it where you please. First comes the thesis--utrum ...
whether such a thing be thus or otherwise; then the objections--ad primum sic proceditur; next
the answers to these objections--sed contra est ... or respondeo dicendum.... Pure advocacy!
And underlying many, perhaps most, of its arguments you will find a logical fallacy which may
be expressed more scholastico by this syllogism: I do not understand this fact save by giving
it this explanation; it is thus that I must understand it, therefore this must be its explanation.
The alternative being that I am left without any understanding of it at all. True science teaches,
above all, to doubt and to be ignorant; advocacy neither doubts nor believes that it does not
know. It requires a solution.

To the mentality that assumes, more or less consciously, that we must of necessity find a solution
to every problem, belongs the argument based on the disastrous consequences of a thing. Take
any book of apologetics--that is to say, of theological advocacy--and you will see how many
times you will meet with this phrase--"the disastrous consequences of this doctrine." Now the
disastrous consequences of a doctrine prove at most that the doctrine is disastrous, but not
that it is false, for there is no proof that the true is necessarily that which suits us best.
The identification of the true and the good is but a pious wish. In his Études sur Blaise Pascal,
A. Vinet says: "Of the two needs that unceasingly belabour human nature, that of happiness
is not only the more universally felt and the more constantly experienced, but it is also the
more imperious. And this need is not only of the senses; it is intellectual. It is not only
for the soul; it is for the mind that happiness is a necessity. Happiness forms a part of truth."
This last proposition--le bonheur fait partie de la verité--is a proposition of pure advocacy,
but not of science or of pure reason. It would be better to say that truth forms a part of
happiness in a Tertullianesque sense, in the sense of credo quia absurdum, which means actually
credo quia consolans--I believe because it is a thing consoling to me.

No, for reason, truth is that of which it can be proved that it is, that it exists, whether
it console us or not. And reason is certainly not a consoling faculty. That terrible Latin
poet Lucretius, whose apparent serenity and Epicurean ataraxia conceal so much despair, said
that piety consists in the power to contemplate all things with a serene soul--pacata posse
mente omnia tueri. And it was the same Lucretius who wrote that religion can persuade us into
so great evils--tantum religio potuit suadere malorum. And it is true that religion--above
all the Christian religion--has been, as the Apostle says, to the Jews a stumbling-block, and
to the intellectuals foolishness.[29] The Christian religion, the religion of the immortality
of the soul, was called by Tacitus a pernicious superstition (exitialis superstitio), and he
asserted that it involved a hatred of mankind (odium generis humani).

Speaking of the age in which these men lived, the most genuinely rationalistic age in the world's
history, Flaubert, writing to Madame Roger des Genettes, uttered these pregnant words: "You
are right; we must speak with respect of Lucretius; I see no one who can compare with him except
Byron, and Byron has not his gravity nor the sincerity of his sadness. The melancholy of the
ancients seems to me more profound than that of the moderns, who all more or less presuppose
an immortality on the yonder side of the black hole. But for the ancients this black hole was
the infinite itself; the procession of their dreams is imaged against a background of immutable
ebony. The gods being no more and Christ being not yet, there was between Cicero and Marcus
Aurelius a unique moment in which man stood alone. Nowhere else do I find this grandeur; but
what renders Lucretius intolerable is his physics, which he gives as if positive. If he is
weak, it is because he did not doubt enough; he wished to explain, to arrive at a conclusion!"[30]

Yes, Lucretius wished to arrive at a conclusion, a solution, and, what is worse, he wished
to find consolation in reason. For there is also an anti-theological advocacy, and an odium
anti-theologicum.

Many, very many, men of science, the majority of those who call themselves rationalists, are
afflicted by it.

The rationalist acts rationally--that is to say, he does not speak out of his part--so long
as he confines himself to denying that reason satisfies our vital hunger for immortality; but,
furious at not being able to believe, he soon becomes a prey to the vindictiveness of the odium
anti-theologicum, and exclaims with the Pharisees: "This people who knoweth not the law are
cursed." There is much truth in these words of Soloviev: "I have a foreboding of the near approach
of a time when Christians will gather together again in the Catacombs, because of the persecution
of the faith--a persecution less brutal, perhaps, than that of Nero's day, but not less refined
in its severity, consummated by mendacity, derision, and all the hypocrisies."

The anti-theological hate, the scientificist--I do not say scientific--fury, is manifest. Consider,
not the more detached scientific investigators, those who know how to doubt, but the fanatics
of rationalism, and observe with what gross brutality they speak of faith. Vogt considered
it probable that the cranial structure of the Apostles was of a pronounced simian character;
of the indecencies of Haeckel, that supreme incomprehender, there is no need to speak, nor
yet of those of Büchner; even Virchow is not free from them. And others work with more subtilty.
There are people who seem not to be content with not believing that there is another life,
or rather, with believing that there is none, but who are vexed and hurt that others should
believe in it or even should wish that it might exist. And this attitude is as contemptible
as that is worthy of respect which characterizes those who, though urged by the need they have
of it to believe in another life, are unable to believe. But of this most noble attitude of
the spirit, the most profound, the most human, and the most fruitful, the attitude of despair,
we will speak later on.

And the rationalists who do not succumb to the anti-theological fury are bent on convincing
men that there are motives for living and consolations for having been born, even though there
shall come a time, at the end of some tens or hundreds or millions of centuries, when all human
consciousness shall have ceased to exist. And these motives for living and working, this thing
which some call humanism, are the amazing products of the affective and emotional hollowness
of rationalism and of its stupendous hypocrisy--a hypocrisy bent on sacrificing sincerity to
veracity, and sworn not to confess that reason is a dissolvent and disconsolatory power.

Must I repeat again what I have already said about all this business of manufacturing culture,
of progressing, of realizing good, truth, and beauty, of establishing justice on earth, of
ameliorating life for those who shall come after us, of subserving I know not what destiny,
and all this without our taking thought for the ultimate end of each one of us? Must I again
declare to you the supreme vacuity of culture, of science, of art, of good, of truth, of beauty,
of justice ... of all these beautiful conceptions, if at the last, in four days or in four
millions of centuries--it matters not which--no human consciousness shall exist to appropriate
this civilization, this science, art, good, truth, beauty, justice, and all the rest?

Many and very various have been the rationalist devices--more or less rational--by means of
which from the days of the Epicureans and the Stoics it has been sought to discover rational
consolation in truth and to convince men, although those who sought so to do remained themselves
unconvinced, that there are motives for working and lures for living, even though the human
consciousness be destined some day to disappear.

The Epicurean attitude, the extreme and grossest expression of which is "Let us eat and drink,
for to-morrow we die," or the Horatian carpe diem, which may be rendered by "Live for the day,"
does not differ in its essence from the Stoic attitude with its "Accomplish what the moral
conscience dictates to thee, and afterward let it be as it may be." Both attitudes have a common
base; and pleasure for pleasure's sake comes to the same as duty for duty's sake.

Spinoza, the most logical and consistent of atheists--I mean of those who deny the persistence
of individual consciousness through indefinite future time--and at the same time the most pious,
Spinoza devoted the fifth and last part of his Ethic to elucidating the path that leads to
liberty and to determining the concept of happiness. The concept! Concept, not feeling! For
Spinoza, who was a terrible intellectualist, happiness (beatitudo) is a concept, and the love
of God an intellectual love. After establishing in proposition xxi. of the fifth part that
"the mind can imagine nothing, neither can it remember anything that is past, save during the
continuance of the body"--which is equivalent to denying the immortality of the soul, since
a soul which, disjoined from the body in which it lived, does not remember its past, is neither
immortal nor is it a soul--he goes on to affirm in proposition xxiii. that "the human mind
cannot be absolutely destroyed with the body, but there remains of it something which is eternal,"
and this eternity of the mind is a certain mode of thinking. But do not let yourselves be deceived;
there is no such eternity of the individual mind. Everything is sub æternitatis specie--that
is to say, pure illusion. Nothing could be more dreary, nothing more desolating, nothing more
anti-vital than this happiness, this beatitudo, of Spinoza, that consists in the intellectual
love of the mind towards God, which is nothing else but the very love with which God loves
Himself (prop, xxxvi.). Our happiness--that is to say, our liberty--consists in the constant
and eternal love of God towards men. So affirms the corollary to this thirty-sixth proposition.
And all this in order to arrive at the conclusion, which is the final and crowning proposition
of the whole Ethic, that happiness is not the reward of virtue, but virtue itself. The everlasting
refrain! Or, to put it plainly, we proceed from God and to God we return, which, translated
into concrete language, the language of life and feeling, means that my personal consciousness
sprang from nothingness, from my unconsciousness, and to nothingness it will return.

And this most dreary and desolating voice of Spinoza is the very voice of reason. And the liberty
of which he tells us is a terrible liberty. And against Spinoza and his doctrine of happiness
there is only one irresistible argument, the argument ad hominem. Was he happy, Benedict Spinoza,
while, to allay his inner unhappiness, he was discoursing of happiness? Was he free?

In the corollary to proposition xli. of this same final and most tragic part of that tremendous
tragedy of his Ethic, the poor desperate Jew of Amsterdam discourses of the common persuasion
of the vulgar of the truth of eternal life. Let us hear what he says: "It would appear that
they esteem piety and religion--and, indeed, all that is referred to fortitude or strength
of mind--as burdens which they expect to lay down after death, when they hope to receive a
reward for their servitude, not for their piety and religion in this life. Nor is it even this
hope alone that leads them; the fear of frightful punishments with which they are menaced after
death also influences them to live--in so far as their impotence and poverty of spirit permits--in
conformity with the prescription of the Divine law. And were not this hope and this fear infused
into the minds of men--but, on the contrary, did they believe that the soul perished with the
body, and that, beyond the grave, there was no other life prepared for the wretched who had
borne the burden of piety in this--they would return to their natural inclinations, preferring
to accommodate everything to their own liking, and would follow fortune rather than reason.
But all this appears no less absurd than it would be to suppose that a man, because he did
not believe that he could nourish his body eternally with wholesome food, would saturate himself
with deadly poisons; or than if because believing that his soul was not eternal and immortal,
he should therefore prefer to be without a soul (amens) and to live without reason; all of
which is so absurd as to be scarcely worth refuting (quæ adeo absurda sunt, ut vix recenseri
mereantur)."

When a thing is said to be not worth refuting you may be sure that either it is flagrantly
stupid--in which case all comment is superfluous--or it is something formidable, the very crux
of the problem. And this it is in this case. Yes! poor Portuguese Jew exiled in Holland, yes!
that he who is convinced without a vestige of doubt, without the faintest hope of any saving
uncertainty, that his soul is not immortal, should prefer to be without a soul (amens), or
irrational, or idiot, that he should prefer not to have been born, is a supposition that has
nothing, absolutely nothing, absurd in it. Was he happy, the poor Jewish intellectualist definer
of intellectual love and of happiness? For that and no other is the problem. "What does it
profit thee to know the definition of compunction if thou dost not feel it?" says à Kempis.
And what profits it to discuss or to define happiness if you cannot thereby achieve happiness?
Not inapposite in this connection is that terrible story that Diderot tells of a eunuch who
desired to take lessons in esthetics from a native of Marseilles in order that he might be
better qualified to select the slaves destined for the harem of the Sultan, his master. At
the end of the first lesson, a physiological lesson, brutally and carnally physiological, the
eunuch exclaimed bitterly, "It is evident that I shall never know esthetics!" Even so, and
just as eunuchs will never know esthetics as applied to the selection of beautiful women, so
neither will pure rationalists ever know ethics, nor will they ever succeed in defining happiness,
for happiness is a thing that is lived and felt, not a thing that is reasoned about or defined.

And you have another rationalist, one not sad or submissive, like Spinoza, but rebellious,
and though concealing a despair not less bitter, making a hypocritical pretence of light-heartedness,
you have Nietzsche, who discovered mathematically (!!!) that counterfeit of the immortality
of the soul which is called "eternal recurrence," and which is in fact the most stupendous
tragi-comedy or comi-tragedy. The number of atoms or irreducible primary elements being finite
and the universe eternal, a combination identical with that which at present exists must at
some future time be reproduced, and therefore that which now is must be repeated an infinite
number of times. This is evident, and just as I shall live again the life that I am now living,
so I have already lived it before an infinite number of times, for there is an eternity that
stretches into the past--a parte ante--just as there will be one stretching into the future--a
parte post. But, unfortunately, it happens that I remember none of my previous existences,
and perhaps it is impossible that I should remember them, for two things absolutely and completely
identical are but one. Instead of supposing that we live in a finite universe, composed of
a finite number of irreducible primary elements, suppose that we live in an infinite universe,
without limits in space--which concrete infinity is not less inconceivable than the concrete
eternity in time--then it will follow that this system of ours, that of the Milky Way, is repeated
an infinite number of times in the infinite of space, and that therefore I am now living an
infinite number of lives, all exactly identical. A jest, as you see, but one not less comic--that
is to say, not less tragic--than that of Nietzsche, that of the laughing lion. And why does
the lion laugh? I think he laughs with rage, because he can never succeed in finding consolation
in the thought that he has been the same lion before and is destined to be the same lion again.

But if Spinoza and Nietzsche were indeed both rationalists, each after his own manner, they
were not spiritual eunuchs; they had heart, feeling, and, above all, hunger, a mad hunger for
eternity, for immortality. The physical eunuch does not feel the need of reproducing himself
carnally, in the body, and neither does the spiritual eunuch feel the hunger for self-perpetuation.

Certain it is that there are some who assert that reason suffices them, and they counsel us
to desist from seeking to penetrate into the impenetrable. But of those who say that they have
no need of any faith in an eternal personal life to furnish them with incentives to living
and motives for action, I know not well how to think. A man blind from birth may also assure
us that he feels no great longing to enjoy the world of sight nor suffers any great anguish
from not having enjoyed it, and we must needs believe him, for what is wholly unknown cannot
be the object of desire--nihil volitum quin præcognitum, there can be no volition save of things
already known. But I cannot be persuaded that he who has once in his life, either in his youth
or for some other brief space of time, cherished the belief in the immortality of the soul,
will ever find peace without it. And of this sort of blindness from birth there are but few
instances among us, and then only by a kind of strange aberration. For the merely and exclusively
rational man is an aberration and nothing but an aberration.

More sincere, much more sincere, are those who say: "We must not talk about it, for in talking
about it we only waste our time and weaken our will; let us do our duty here and hereafter
let come what may." But this sincerity hides a yet deeper insincerity. May it perhaps be that
by saying "We must not talk about it," they succeed in not thinking about it? Our will is weakened?
And what then? We lose the capacity for human action? And what then? It is very convenient
to tell a man whom a fatal disease condemns to an early death, and who knows it, not to think
about it.

    Meglio oprando obliar, senzá indagarlo,
    Questo enorme mister del universo!

"Better to work and to forget and not to probe into this vast mystery of the universe!" Carducci
wrote in his Idilio Maremmano, the same Carducci who at the close of his ode Sul Monte Mario
tells us how the earth, the mother of the fugitive soul, must roll its burden of glory and
sorrow round the sun "until, worn out beneath the equator, mocked by the last flames of dying
heat, the exhausted human race is reduced to a single man and woman, who, standing in the midst
of dead woods, surrounded by sheer mountains, livid, with glassy eyes watch thee, O sun, set
across the immense frozen waste."

But is it possible for us to give ourselves to any serious and lasting work, forgetting the
vast mystery of the universe and abandoning all attempt to understand it? Is it possible to
contemplate the vast All with a serene soul, in the spirit of the Lucretian piety, if we are
conscious of the thought that a time must come when this All will no longer be reflected in
any human consciousness?

Cain, in Byron's poem, asks of Lucifer, the prince of the intellectuals, "Are ye happy?" and
Lucifer replies, "We are mighty." Cain questions again, "Are ye happy?" and then the great
Intellectual says to him: "No; art thou?" And further on, this same Lucifer says to Adah, the
sister and wife of Cain: "Choose betwixt love and knowledge--since there is no other choice."
And in the same stupendous poem, when Cain says that the tree of the knowledge of good and
evil was a lying tree, for "we know nothing; at least it promised knowledge at the price of
death," Lucifer answers him: "It may be death leads to the highest knowledge"--that is to say,
to nothingness.

To this word knowledge which Lord Byron uses in the above quotations, the Spanish ciencia,
the French science, the German Wissenschaft, is often opposed the word wisdom, sabiduria, sagesse,
Weisheit.

    Knowledge comes, but Wisdom lingers, and he bears a laden breast,
    Full of sad experience, moving toward the stillness of his rest,

says another lord, Tennyson, in his Locksley Hall. And what is this wisdom which we have to
seek chiefly in the poets, leaving knowledge on one side? It is well enough to say with Matthew
Arnold in his Introduction to Wordsworth's poems, that poetry is reality and philosophy illusion;
but reason is always reason and reality is always reality, that which can be proved to exist
externally to us, whether we find in it consolation or despair.

I do not know why so many people were scandalized, or pretended to be scandalized, when Brunetière
proclaimed again the bankruptcy of science. For science as a substitute for religion and reason
as a substitute for faith have always fallen to pieces. Science will be able to satisfy, and
in fact does satisfy in an increasing measure, our increasing logical or intellectual needs,
our desire to know and understand the truth; but science does not satisfy the needs of our
heart and our will, and far from satisfying our hunger for immortality it contradicts it. Rational
truth and life stand in opposition to one another. And is it possible that there is any other
truth than rational truth?

It must remain established, therefore, that reason--human reason--within its limits, not only
does not prove rationally that the soul is immortal or that the human consciousness shall preserve
its indestructibility through the tracts of time to come, but that it proves rather--within
its limits, I repeat--that the individual consciousness cannot persist after the death of the
physical organism upon which it depends. And these limits, within which I say that human reason
proves this, are the limits of rationality, of what is known by demonstration. Beyond these
limits is the irrational, which, whether it be called the super-rational or the infra-rational
or the contra-rational, is all the same thing. Beyond these limits is the absurd of Tertullian,
the impossible of the certum est, quia impossibile est. And this absurd can only base itself
upon the most absolute uncertainty.

The rational dissolution ends in dissolving reason itself; it ends in the most absolute scepticism,
in the phenomenalism of Hume or in the doctrine of absolute contingencies of Stuart Mill, the
most consistent and logical of the positivists. The supreme triumph of reason, the analytical--that
is, the destructive and dissolvent--faculty, is to cast doubt upon its own validity. The stomach
that contains an ulcer ends by digesting itself; and reason ends by destroying the immediate
and absolute validity of the concept of truth and of the concept of necessity. Both concepts
are relative; there is no absolute truth, no absolute necessity. We call a concept true which
agrees with the general system of all our concepts; and we call a perception true which does
not contradict the system of our perceptions. Truth is coherence. But as regards the whole
system, the aggregate, as there is nothing outside of it of which we have knowledge, we cannot
say whether it is true or not. It is conceivable that the universe, as it exists in itself,
outside of our consciousness, may be quite other than it appears to us, although this is a
supposition that has no meaning for reason. And as regards necessity, is there an absolute
necessity? By necessary we mean merely that which is, and in so far as it is, for in another
more transcendental sense, what absolute necessity, logical and independent of the fact that
the universe exists, is there that there should be a universe or anything else at all?

Absolute relativism, which is neither more nor less than scepticism, in the most modern sense
of the term, is the supreme triumph of the reasoning reason.

Feeling does not succeed in converting consolation into truth, nor does reason succeed in converting
truth into consolation. But reason going beyond truth itself, beyond the concept of reality
itself, succeeds in plunging itself into the depths of scepticism. And in this abyss the scepticism
of the reason encounters the despair of the heart, and this encounter leads to the discovery
of a basis--a terrible basis!--for consolation to build on.

Let us examine it.

FOOTNOTES:

[26] Pragmatism, a New Name for some Old Ways of Thinking. Popular lectures on philosophy by
William James, 1907.

[27] Treatise of Human Nature, book i., part iv., sect. vi., "Of Personal Identity": "I never
can catch myself at any time without a perception, and never can observe anything but the perception."

[28] Arthur Penrhyn Stanley, Lectures on the History of the Eastern Church, lecture i., sect. iii.

[29] 1 Cor. i. 23.

[30] Gustave Flaubert, Correspondance, troisième série (1854-1869). Paris, 1910.

VI

IN THE DEPTHS OF THE ABYSS

Parce unicæ spes totius orbis.--TERTULLIANUS, Adversus Marcionem, 5.

We have seen that the vital longing for human immortality finds no consolation in reason and
that reason leaves us without incentive or consolation in life and life itself without real
finality. But here, in the depths of the abyss, the despair of the heart and of the will and
the scepticism of reason meet face to face and embrace like brothers. And we shall see it is
from this embrace, a tragic--that is to say, an intimately loving--embrace, that the wellspring
of life will flow, a life serious and terrible. Scepticism, uncertainty--the position to which
reason, by practising its analysis upon itself, upon its own validity, at last arrives--is
the foundation upon which the heart's despair must build up its hope.

Disillusioned, we had to abandon the position of those who seek to give consolation the force
of rational and logical truth, pretending to prove the rationality, or at any rate the non-irrationality,
of consolation; and we had to abandon likewise the position of those who seek to give rational
truth the force of consolation and of a motive for life. Neither the one nor the other of these
positions satisfied us. The one is at variance with our reason, the other with our feeling.
These two powers can never conclude peace and we must needs live by their war. We must make
of this war, of war itself, the very condition of our spiritual life.

Neither does this high debate admit of that indecent and repugnant expedient which the more
or less parliamentary type of politician has devised and dubbed "a formula of agreement," the
property of which is to render it impossible for either side to claim to be victorious. There
is no place here for a time-serving compromise. Perhaps a degenerate and cowardly reason might
bring itself to propose some such formula of agreement, for in truth reason lives by formulas;
but life, which cannot be formulated, life which lives and seeks to live for ever, does not
submit to formulas. Its sole formula is: all or nothing. Feeling does not compound its differences
with middle terms.

Initium sapientiæ timor Domini, it is said, meaning perhaps timor mortis, or it may be, timor
vitæ, which is the same thing. Always it comes about that the beginning of wisdom is a fear.

Is it true to say of this saving scepticism which I am now going to discuss, that it is doubt?
It is doubt, yes, but it is much more than doubt. Doubt is commonly something very cold, of
very little vitalizing force, and above all something rather artificial, especially since Descartes
degraded it to the function of a method. The conflict between reason and life is something
more than a doubt. For doubt is easily resolved into a comic element.

The methodical doubt of Descartes is a comic doubt, a doubt purely theoretical and provisional--that
is to say, the doubt of a man who acts as if he doubted without really doubting. And because
it was a stove-excogitated doubt, the man who deduced that he existed from the fact that he
thought did not approve of "those turbulent (brouillonnes) and restless persons who, being
called neither by birth nor by fortune to the management of public affairs, are perpetually
devising some new reformation," and he was pained by the suspicion that there might be something
of this kind in his own writings. No, he, Descartes, proposed only to "reform his own thoughts
and to build upon ground that was wholly his." And he resolved not to accept anything as true
when he did not recognize it clearly to be so, and to make a clean sweep of all prejudices
and received ideas, to the end that he might construct his intellectual habitation anew. But
"as it is not enough, before beginning to rebuild one's dwelling-house, to pull it down and
to furnish materials and architects, or to study architecture oneself ... but it is also necessary
to be provided with some other wherein to lodge conveniently while the work is in progress,"
he framed for himself a provisional ethic--une morale de provision--the first law of which
was to observe the customs of his country and to keep always to the religion in which, by the
grace of God, he had been instructed from his infancy, governing himself in all things according
to the most moderate opinions. Yes, exactly, a provisional religion and even a provisional
God! And he chose the most moderate opinions "because these are always the most convenient
for practice." But it is best to proceed no further.

This methodical or theoretical Cartesian doubt, this philosophical doubt excogitated in a stove,
is not the doubt, is not the scepticism, is not the incertitude, that I am talking about here.
No! This other doubt is a passionate doubt, it is the eternal conflict between reason and feeling,
science and life, logic and biotic. For science destroys the concept of personality by reducing
it to a complex in continual flux from moment to moment--that is to say, it destroys the very
foundation of the spiritual and emotional life, which ranges itself unyieldingly against reason.

And this doubt cannot avail itself of any provisional ethic, but has to found its ethic, as
we shall see, on the conflict itself, an ethic of battle, and itself has to serve as the foundation
of religion. And it inhabits a house which is continually being demolished and which continually
it has to rebuild. Without ceasing the will, I mean the will never to die, the spirit of unsubmissiveness
to death, labours to build up the house of life, and without ceasing the keen blasts and stormy
assaults of reason beat it down.

And more than this, in the concrete vital problem that concerns us, reason takes up no position
whatever. In truth, it does something worse than deny the immortality of the soul--for that
at any rate would be one solution--it refuses even to recognize the problem as our vital desire
presents it to us. In the rational and logical sense of the term problem, there is no such
problem. This question of the immortality of the soul, of the persistence of the individual
consciousness, is not rational, it falls outside reason. As a problem, and whatever solution
it may receive, it is irrational. Rationally even the very propounding of the problem lacks
sense. The immortality of the soul is as unconceivable as, in all strictness, is its absolute
mortality. For the purpose of explaining the world and existence--and such is the task of reason--it
is not necessary that we should suppose that our soul is either mortal or immortal. The mere
enunciation of the problem is, therefore, an irrationality.

Let us hear what our brother Kierkegaard has to say. "The danger of abstract thought is seen
precisely in respect of the problem of existence, the difficulty of which it solves by going
round it, afterwards boasting that it has completely explained it. It explains immortality
in general, and it does so in a remarkable way by identifying it with eternity--with the eternity
which is essentially the medium of thought. But with the immortality of each individually existing
man, wherein precisely the difficulty lies, abstraction does not concern itself, is not interested
in it. And yet the difficulty of existence lies just in the interest of the existing being--the
man who exists is infinitely interested in existing. Abstract thought besteads immortality
only in order that it may kill me as an individual being with an individual existence, and
so make me immortal, pretty much in the same way as that famous physician in one of Holberg's
plays, whose medicine, while it took away the patient's fever, took away his life at the same
time. An abstract thinker, who refuses to disclose and admit the relation that exists between
his abstract thought and the fact that he is an existing being, produces a comic impression
upon us, however accomplished and distinguished he may be, for he runs the risk of ceasing
to be a man. While an effective man, compounded of infinitude and finitude, owes his effectiveness
precisely to the conjunction of these two elements and is infinitely interested in existing,
an abstract thinker, similarly compounded, is a double being, a fantastical being, who lives
in the pure being of abstraction, and at times presents the sorry figure of a professor who
lays aside this abstract essence as he lays aside his walking-stick. When one reads the Life
of a thinker of this kind--whose writings may be excellent--one trembles at the thought of
what it is to be a man. And when one reads in his writings that thinking and being are the
same thing, one thinks, remembering his life, that that being, which is identical with thinking,
is not precisely the same thing as being a man" (Afsluttende uvidenskabelig Efterskrift, chap.
iii.).

What intense passion--that is to say, what truth--there is in this bitter invective against
Hegel, prototype of the rationalist!--for the rationalist takes away our fever by taking away
our life, and promises us, instead of a concrete, an abstract immortality, as if the hunger
for immortality that consumes us were an abstract and not a concrete hunger!

It may indeed be said that when once the dog is dead there is an end to the rabies, and that
after I have died I shall no more be tortured by this rage of not dying, and that the fear
of death, or more properly, of nothingness, is an irrational fear, but ... Yes, but ... Eppur
si muove! And it will go on moving. For it is the source of all movement!

I doubt, however, whether our brother Kierkegaard is altogether in the right, for this same
abstract thinker, or thinker of abstractions, thinks in order that he may exist, that he may
not cease to exist, or thinks perhaps in order to forget that he will have to cease to exist.
This is the root of the passion for abstract thought. And possibly Hegel was as infinitely
interested as Kierkegaard in his own concrete, individual existence, although the professional
decorum of the state-philosopher compelled him to conceal the fact.

Faith in immortality is irrational. And, notwithstanding, faith, life, and reason have mutual
need of one another. This vital longing is not properly a problem, cannot assume a logical
status, cannot be formulated in propositions susceptible of rational discussion; but it announces
itself in us as hunger announces itself. Neither can the wolf that throws itself with the fury
of hunger upon its prey or with the fury of instinct upon the she-wolf, enunciate its impulse
rationally and as a logical problem. Reason and faith are two enemies, neither of which can
maintain itself without the other. The irrational demands to be rationalized and reason only
can operate on the irrational. They are compelled to seek mutual support and association. But
association in struggle, for struggle is a mode of association.

In the world of living beings the struggle for life establishes an association, and a very
close one, not only between those who unite together in combat against a common foe, but between
the combatants themselves. And is there any possible association more intimate than that uniting
the animal that eats another and the animal that is eaten, between the devourer and the devoured?
And if this is clearly seen in the struggle between individuals, it is still more evident in
the struggle between peoples. War has always been the most effective factor of progress, even
more than commerce. It is through war that conquerors and conquered learn to know each other
and in consequence to love each other.

Christianity, the foolishness of the Cross, the irrational faith that Christ rose from the
dead in order to raise us from the dead, was saved by the rationalistic Hellenic culture, and
this in its turn was saved by Christianity. Without Christianity the Renaissance would have
been impossible. Without the Gospel, without St. Paul, the peoples who had traversed the Middle
Ages would have understood neither Plato nor Aristotle. A purely rationalist tradition is as
impossible as a tradition purely religious. It is frequently disputed whether the Reformation
was born as the child of the Renaissance or as a protest against it, and both propositions
may be said to be true, for the son is always born as a protest against the father. It is also
said that it was the revived Greek classics that led men like Erasmus back to St. Paul and
to primitive Christianity, which is the most irrational form of Christianity; but it may be
retorted that it was St. Paul, that it was the Christian irrationality underlying his Catholic
theology, that led them back to the classics. "Christianity is what it has come to be," it
has been said, "only through its alliance with antiquity, while with the Copts and Ethiopians
it is but a kind of buffoonery. Islam developed under the influence of Persian and Greek culture,
and under that of the Turks it has been transformed into a destructive barbarism."[31]

We have emerged from the Middle Ages, from the medieval faith as ardent as it was at heart
despairing, and not without its inward and abysmal incertitudes, and we have entered upon the
age of rationalism, likewise not without its incertitudes. Faith in reason is exposed to the
same rational indefensibility as all other faith. And we may say with Robert Browning,

    All we have gained, then, by our unbelief
    Is a life of doubt diversified by faith
    For one of faith diversified by doubt.

                     (Bishop Blougram's Apology.)

And if, as I have said, faith, life, can only sustain itself by leaning upon reason, which
renders it transmissible--and above all transmissible from myself to myself--that is to say,
reflective and conscious--it is none the less true that reason in its turn can only sustain
itself by leaning upon faith, upon life, even if only upon faith in reason, faith in its availability
for something more than mere knowing, faith in its availability for living. Nevertheless, neither
is faith transmissible or rational, nor is reason vital.

The will and the intelligence have need of one another, and the reverse of that old aphorism,
nihil volitum quin præcognitum, nothing is willed but what is previously known, is not so paradoxical
as at first sight it may appear--nihil cognitum quin prævolitum, nothing is known but what
is previously willed. Vinet, in his study of Cousin's book on the Pensées of Pascal, says:
"The very knowledge of the mind as such has need of the heart. Without the desire to see there
is no seeing; in a great materialization of life and of thought there is no believing in the
things of the spirit." We shall see presently that to believe is, in the first instance, to
wish to believe.

The will and the intelligence seek opposite ends: that we may absorb the world into ourselves,
appropriate it to ourselves, is the aim of the will; that we may be absorbed into the world,
that of the intelligence. Opposite ends?--are they not rather one and the same? No, they are
not, although they may seem to be so. The intelligence is monist or pantheist, the will monotheist
or egoist. The intelligence has no need of anything outside it to exercise itself upon; it
builds its foundation with ideas themselves, while the will requires matter. To know something
is to make this something that I know myself; but to avail myself of it, to dominate it, it
has to remain distinct from myself.

Philosophy and religion are enemies, and because they are enemies they have need of one another.
There is no religion without some philosophic basis, no philosophy without roots in religion.
Each lives by its contrary. The history of philosophy is, strictly speaking, a history of religion.
And the attacks which are directed against religion from a presumed scientific or philosophical
point of view are merely attacks from another but opposing religious point of view. "The opposition
which professedly exists between natural science and Christianity really exists between an
impulse derived from natural religion blended with the scientific investigation of nature,
and the validity of the Christian view of the world, which assures to spirit its pre-eminence
over the entire world of nature," says Ritschl (Rechtfertgung und Versöhnung, iii. chap. iv.
§ 28). Now this instinct is the instinct of rationality itself. And the critical idealism of
Kant is of religious origin, and it is in order to save religion that Kant enlarged the limits
of reason after having in a certain sense dissolved it in scepticism. The system of antitheses,
contradictions, and antinomies, upon which Hegel constructed his absolute idealism, has its
root and germ in Kant himself, and this root is an irrational root.

We shall see later on, when we come to deal with faith, that faith is in its essence simply
a matter of will, not of reason, that to believe is to wish to believe, and to believe in God
is, before all and above all, to wish that there may be a God. In the same way, to believe
in the immortality of the soul is to wish that the soul may be immortal, but to wish it with
such force that this volition shall trample reason under foot and pass beyond it. But reason
has its revenge.

The instinct of knowing and the instinct of living, or rather of surviving, come into conflict.
In his work on the Analysis of the Sensations and the Relation of the Physical to the Psychical,[32]
Dr. E. Mach tells us that not even the investigator, the savant, der Forscher, is exempted
from taking his part in the struggle for existence, that even the roads of science lead mouth-wards,
and that in the actual conditions of the society in which we live the pure instinct of knowing,
der reine Erkenntnisstrieb, is still no more than an ideal. And so it always will be. Primum
vivere, deinde philosophari, or perhaps better, primum supervivere or superesse.

Every position of permanent agreement or harmony between reason and life, between philosophy
and religion, becomes impossible. And the tragic history of human thought is simply the history
of a struggle between reason and life--reason bent on rationalizing life and forcing it to
submit to the inevitable, to mortality; life bent on vitalizing reason and forcing it to serve
as a support for its own vital desires. And this is the history of philosophy, inseparable
from the history of religion.

Our sense of the world of objective reality is necessarily subjective, human, anthropomorphic.
And vitalism will always rise up against rationalism; reason will always find itself confronted
by will. Hence the rhythm of the history of philosophy and the alternation of periods in which
life imposes itself, giving birth to spiritual forms, with those in which reason imposes itself,
giving birth to materialist forms, although both of these classes of forms of belief may be
disguised by other names. Neither reason nor life ever acknowledges itself vanquished. But
we will return to this in the next chapter.

The vital consequence of rationalism would be suicide. Kierkegaard puts it very well: "The
consequence for existence[33] of pure thought is suicide.... We do not praise suicide but passion.
The thinker, on the contrary, is a curious animal--for a few spells during the day he is very
intelligent, but, for the rest, he has nothing in common with man" (Afsluttende uvidenskabelig
Efterskrift, chap iii., § 1).

As the thinker, in spite of all, does not cease to be a man, he employs reason in the interests
of life, whether he knows it or not. Life cheats reason and reason cheats life. Scholastic-Aristotelian
philosophy fabricated in the interest of life a teleologic-evolutionist system, rational in
appearance, which might serve as a support for our vital longing. This philosophy, the basis
of the orthodox Christian supernaturalism, whether Catholic or Protestant, was, in its essence,
merely a trick on the part of life to force reason to lend it its support. But reason supported
it with such pressure that it ended by pulverizing it.

I have read that the ex-Carmelite, Hyacinthe Loyson, declared that he could present himself
before God with tranquillity, for he was at peace with his conscience and with his reason.
With what conscience? If with his religious conscience, then I do not understand. For it is
a truth that no man can serve two masters, and least of all when, though they may sign truces
and armistices and compromises, these two are enemies because of their conflicting interests.

To all this someone is sure to object that life ought to subject itself to reason, to which
we will reply that nobody ought to do what he is unable to do, and life cannot subject itself
to reason. "Ought, therefore can," some Kantian will retort. To which we shall demur: "Cannot,
therefore ought not." And life cannot submit itself to reason, because the end of life is living
and not understanding.

Again, there are those who talk of the religious duty of resignation to mortality. This is
indeed the very summit of aberration and insincerity. But someone is sure to oppose the idea
of veracity to that of sincerity. Granted, and yet the two may very well be reconciled. Veracity,
the homage I owe to what I believe to be rational, to what logically we call truth, moves me
to affirm, in this case, that the immortality of the individual soul is a contradiction in
terms, that it is something, not only irrational, but contra-rational; but sincerity leads
me to affirm also my refusal to resign myself to this previous affirmation and my protest against
its validity. What I feel is a truth, at any rate as much a truth as what I see, touch, hear,
or what is demonstrated to me--nay, I believe it is more of a truth--and sincerity obliges
me not to hide what I feel.

And life, quick to defend itself, searches for the weak point in reason and finds it in scepticism,
which it straightway fastens upon, seeking to save itself by means of this stranglehold. It
needs the weakness of its adversary.

Nothing is sure. Everything is elusive and in the air. In an outburst of passion Lamennais
exclaims: "But what! Shall we, losing all hope, shut our eyes and plunge into the voiceless
depths of a universal scepticism? Shall we doubt that we think, that we feel, that we are?
Nature does not allow it; she forces us to believe even when our reason is not convinced. Absolute
certainty and absolute doubt are both alike forbidden to us. We hover in a vague mean between
these two extremes, as between being and nothingness; for complete scepticism would be the
extinction of the intelligence and the total death of man. But it is not given to man to annihilate
himself; there is in him something which invincibly resists destruction, I know not what vital
faith, indomitable even by his will. Whether he likes it or not, he must believe, because he
must act, because he must preserve himself. His reason, if he listened only to that, teaching
him to doubt everything, itself included, would reduce him to a state of absolute inaction;
he would perish before even he had been able to prove to himself that he existed" (Essai sur
l'indifférence en matière de religion, iii^e partie, chap. lxvii.).

Reason, however, does not actually lead us to absolute scepticism. No! Reason does not lead
me and cannot lead me to doubt that I exist. Whither reason does lead me is to vital scepticism,
or more properly, to vital negation--not merely to doubt, but to deny, that my consciousness
survives my death. Scepticism is produced by the clash between reason and desire. And from
this clash, from this embrace between despair and scepticism, is born that holy, that sweet,
that saving incertitude, which is our supreme consolation.

The absolute and complete certainty, on the one hand, that death is a complete, definite, irrevocable
annihilation of personal consciousness, a certainty of the same order as the certainty that
the three angles of a triangle are equal to two right angles, or, on the other hand, the absolute
and complete certainty that our personal consciousness is prolonged beyond death in these present
or in other conditions, and above all including in itself that strange and adventitious addition
of eternal rewards and punishments--both of these certainties alike would make life impossible
for us. In the most secret chamber of the spirit of him who believes himself convinced that
death puts an end to his personal consciousness, his memory, for ever, and all unknown to him
perhaps, there lurks a shadow, a vague shadow, a shadow of shadow, of uncertainty, and while
he says within himself, "Well, let us live this life that passes away, for there is no other!"
the silence of this secret chamber speaks to him and murmurs, "Who knows!..." He may not think
he hears it, but he hears it nevertheless. And likewise in some secret place of the soul of
the believer who most firmly holds the belief in a future life, there is a muffled voice, a
voice of uncertainty, which whispers in the ear of his spirit, "Who knows!..." These voices
are like the humming of a mosquito when the south-west wind roars through the trees in the
wood; we cannot distinguish this faint humming, yet nevertheless, merged in the clamour of
the storm, it reaches the ear. Otherwise, without this uncertainty, how could we live?

"Is there?" "Is there not?"--these are the bases of our inner life. There may be a rationalist
who has never wavered in his conviction of the mortality of the soul, and there may be a vitalist
who has never wavered in his faith in immortality; but at the most this would only prove that
just as there are natural monstrosities, so there are those who are stupid as regards heart
and feeling, however great their intelligence, and those who are stupid intellectually, however
great their virtue. But, in normal cases, I cannot believe those who assure me that never,
not in a fleeting moment, not in the hours of direst loneliness and grief, has this murmur
of uncertainty breathed upon their consciousness. I do not understand those men who tell me
that the prospect of the yonder side of death has never tormented them, that the thought of
their own annihilation never disquiets them. For my part I do not wish to make peace between
my heart and my head, between my faith and my reason--I wish rather that there should be war
between them!

In the ninth chapter of the Gospel according to Mark it is related how a man brought unto Jesus
his son who was possessed by a dumb spirit, and wheresoever the spirit took him it tore him,
causing him to foam and gnash his teeth and pine away, wherefore he sought to bring him to
Jesus that he might cure him. And the Master, impatient of those who sought only for signs
and wonders, exclaimed: "O faithless generation, how long shall I be with you? how long shall
I suffer you? bring him unto me" (ver. 19), and they brought him unto him. And when the Master
saw him wallowing on the ground, he asked his father how long it was ago since this had come
unto him and the father replied that it was since he was & child. And Jesus said unto him:
"If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth" (ver. 23). And then
the father of the epileptic or demoniac uttered these pregnant and immortal words: "Lord, I
believe; help thou mine unbelief!"--Pisteyô, kyrie, boêthei tê hapistia mou (ver. 24).

"Lord, I believe; help thou mine unbelief!" A contradiction seemingly, for if he believes,
if he trusts, how is it that he beseeches the Lord to help his lack of trust? Nevertheless,
it is this contradiction that gives to the heart's cry of the father of the demoniac its most
profound human value. His faith is a faith that is based upon incertitude. Because he believes--that
is to say, because he wishes to believe, because he has need that his son should be cured--he
beseeches the Lord to help his unbelief, his doubt that such a cure could be effected. Of such
kind is human faith; of such kind was the heroic faith that Sancho Panza had in his master,
the knight Don Quijote de la Mancha, as I think I have shown in my Vida de Don Quijote y Sancho;
a faith based upon incertitude, upon doubt. Sancho Panza was indeed a man, a whole and a true
man, and he was not stupid, for only if he had been stupid would he have believed, without
a shadow of doubt, in the follies of his master. And his master himself did not believe in
them without a shadow of doubt, for neither was Don Quixote, though mad, stupid. He was at
heart a man of despair, as I think I have shown in my above-mentioned book. And because he
was a man of an heroical despair, the hero of that inward and resigned despair, he stands as
the eternal exemplar of every man whose soul is the battle-ground of reason and immortal desire.
Our Lord Don Quixote is the prototype of the vitalist whose faith is based upon uncertainty,
and Sancho is the prototype of the rationalist who doubts his own reason.

Tormented by torturing doubts, August Hermann Francke resolved to call upon God, a God in whom
he did not believe, or rather in whom he believed that he did not believe, imploring Him to
take pity upon him, upon the poor pietist Francke, if perchance He really existed.[34] And
from a similar state of mind came the inspiration of the sonnet entitled "The Atheist's Prayer,"
which is included in my Rosario de Sonetos Líricos, and closes with these lines:

    Sufro yo a tu costa,
    Dios no existiente, pues si tú existieras
    existiería yo también de veras.[35]

Yes, if God the guarantor of our personal immortality existed, then should we ourselves really
exist. And if He exists not, neither do we exist.

That terrible secret, that hidden will of God which, translated into the language of theology,
is known as predestination, that idea which dictated to Luther his servum arbitrium, and which
gives to Calvinism its tragic sense, that doubt of our own salvation, is in its essence nothing
but uncertainty, and this uncertainty, allied with despair, forms the basis of faith. Faith,
some say, consists in not thinking about it, in surrendering ourselves trustingly to the arms
of God, the secrets of whose providence are inscrutable. Yes, but infidelity also consists
in not thinking about it. This absurd faith, this faith that knows no shadow of uncertainty,
this faith of the stupid coalheaver, joins hands with an absurd incredulity, the incredulity
that knows no shadow of uncertainty, the incredulity of the intellectuals who are afflicted
with affective stupidity in order that they may not think about it.

And what but uncertainty, doubt, the voice of reason, was that abyss, that terrible gouffre,
before which Pascal trembled? And it was that which led him to pronounce his terrible sentence,
il faut s'abêtir--need is that we become fools!

All Jansenism, the Catholic adaptation of Calvinism, bears the same impress. Port-Royal, which
owed its existence to a Basque, the Abbé de Saint-Cyran, a man of the same race as Iñigo de
Loyola and as he who writes these lines, always preserved deep down a sediment of religious
despair, of the suicide of reason. Loyola also slew his reason in obedience.

Our affirmation is despair, our negation is despair, and from despair we abstain from affirming
and denying. Note the greater part of our atheists and you will see that they are atheists
from a kind of rage, rage at not being able to believe that there is a God. They are the personal
enemies of God. They have invested Nothingness with substance and personality, and their No-God
is an Anti-God.

And concerning that abject and ignoble saying, "If there were not a God it would be necessary
to invent Him," we shall say nothing. It is the expression of the unclean scepticism of those
conservatives who look upon religion merely as a means of government and whose interest it
is that in the other life there shall be a hell for those who oppose their worldly interests
in this life. This repugnant and Sadducean phrase is worthy of the time-serving sceptic to
whom it is attributed.

No, with all this the deep vital sense has nothing to do. It has nothing to do with a transcendental
police regimen, or with securing order--and what an order!--upon earth by means of promises
and threats of eternal rewards and punishments after death. All this belongs to a lower plane--that
is to say, it is merely politics, or if you like, ethics. The vital sense has to do with living.

But it is in our endeavour to represent to ourselves what the life of the soul after death
really means that uncertainty finds its surest foundation. This it is that most shakes our
vital desire and most intensifies the dissolvent efficacy of reason. For even if by a mighty
effort of faith we overcome that reason which tells and teaches us that the soul is only a
function of the physical organism, it yet remains for our imagination to conceive an image
of the immortal and eternal life of the soul. This conception involves us in contradictions
and absurdities, and it may be that we shall arrive with Kierkegaard at the conclusion that
if the mortality of the soul is terrible, not less terrible is its immortality.

But when we have overcome the first, the only real difficulty, when we have overcome the impediment
of reason, when we have achieved the faith, however painful and involved in uncertainty it
may be, that our personal consciousness shall continue after death, what difficulty, what impediment,
lies in the way of our imagining to ourselves this persistence of self in harmony with our
desire? Yes, we can imagine it as an eternal rejuvenescence, as an eternal growth of ourselves,
and as a journeying towards God, towards the Universal Consciousness, without ever an arrival,
we can imagine it as ... But who shall put fetters upon the imagination, once it has broken
the chain of the rational?

I know that all this is dull reading, tiresome, perhaps tedious, but it is all necessary. And
I must repeat once again that we have nothing to do with a transcendental police system or
with the conversion of God into a great Judge or Policeman--that is to say, we are not concerned
with heaven or hell considered as buttresses to shore up our poor earthly morality, nor are
we concerned with anything egoistic or personal. It is not I myself alone, it is the whole
human race that is involved, it is the ultimate finality of all our civilization. I am but
one, but all men are I's.

Do you remember the end of that Song of the Wild Cock which Leopardi wrote in prose?--the despairing
Leopardi, the victim of reason, who never succeeded in achieving belief. "A time will come,"
he says, "when this Universe and Nature itself will be extinguished. And just as of the grandest
kingdoms and empires of mankind and the marvellous things achieved therein, very famous in
their own time, no vestige or memory remains to-day, so, in like manner, of the entire world
and of the vicissitudes and calamities of all created things there will remain not a single
trace, but a naked silence and a most profound stillness will fill the immensity of space.
And so before ever it has been uttered or understood, this admirable and fearful secret of
universal existence will be obliterated and lost." And this they now describe by a scientific
and very rationalistic term--namely, entropia. Very pretty, is it not? Spencer invented the
notion of a primordial homogeneity, from which it is impossible to conceive how any heterogeneity
could originate. Well now, this entropia is a kind of ultimate homogeneity, a state of perfect
equilibrium. For a soul avid of life, it is the most like nothingness that the mind can conceive.

       *       *       *       *       *

To this point, through a series of dolorous reflections, I have brought the reader who has
had the patience to follow me, endeavouring always to do equal justice to the claims of reason
and of feeling. I have not wished to keep silence on matters about which others are silent;
I have sought to strip naked, not only my own soul, but the human soul, be its nature what
it may, its destiny to disappear or not to disappear. And we have arrived at the bottom of
the abyss, at the irreconcilable conflict between reason and vital feeling. And having arrived
here, I have told you that it is necessary to accept the conflict as such and to live by it.
Now it remains for me to explain to you how, according to my way of feeling, and even according
to my way of thinking, this despair may be the basis of a vigorous life, of an efficacious
activity, of an ethic, of an esthetic, of a religion and even of a logic. But in what follows
there will be as much of imagination as of ratiocination, or rather, much more.

I do not wish to deceive anyone, or to offer as philosophy what it may be is only poetry or
phantasmagoria, in any case a kind of mythology. The divine Plato, after having discussed the
immortality of the soul in his dialogue Phædo (an ideal--that is to say, a lying--immortality),
embarked upon an interpretation of the myths which treat of the other life, remarking that
it was also necessary to mythologize. Let us, then, mythologize.

He who looks for reasons, strictly so called, scientific arguments, technically logical reflections,
may refuse to follow me further. Throughout the remainder of these reflections upon the tragic
sense, I am going to fish for the attention of the reader with the naked, unbaited hook; whoever
wishes to bite, let him bite, but I deceive no one. Only in the conclusion I hope to gather
everything together and to show that this religious despair which I have been talking about,
and which is nothing other than the tragic sense of life itself, is, though more or less hidden,
the very foundation of the consciousness of civilized individuals and peoples to-day--that
is to say, of those individuals and those peoples who do not suffer from stupidity of intellect
or stupidity of feeling.

And this tragic sense is the spring of heroic achievements.

If in that which follows you shall meet with arbitrary apothegms, brusque transitions, inconsecutive
statements, veritable somersaults of thought, do not cry out that you have been deceived. We
are about to enter--if it be that you wish to accompany me--upon a field of contradictions
between feeling and reasoning, and we shall have to avail ourselves of the one as well as of
the other.

That which follows is not the outcome of reason but of life, although in order that I may transmit
it to you I shall have to rationalize it after a fashion. The greater part of it can be reduced
to no logical theory or system; but like that tremendous Yankee poet, Walt Whitman, "I charge
that there be no theory or school founded out of me" (Myself and Mine).

Neither am I the only begetter of the fancies I am about to set forth. By no means. They have
also been conceived by other men, if not precisely by other thinkers, who have preceded me
in this vale of tears, and who have exhibited their life and given expression to it. Their
life, I repeat, not their thought, save in so far as it was thought inspired by life, thought
with a basis of irrationality.

Does this mean that in all that follows, in the efforts of the irrational to express itself,
there is a total lack of rationality, of all objective value? No; the absolutely, the irrevocably
irrational, is inexpressible, is intransmissible. But not the contra-rational. Perhaps there
is no way of rationalizing the irrational; but there is a way of rationalizing the contra-rational,
and that is by trying to explain it. Since only the rational is intelligible, really intelligible,
and since the absurd, being devoid of sense, is condemned to be incommunicable, you will find
that whenever we succeed in giving expression and intelligibility to anything apparently irrational
or absurd we invariably resolve it into something rational, even though it be into the negation
of that which we affirm.

The maddest dreams of the fancy have some ground of reason, and who knows if everything that
the imagination of man can conceive either has not already happened, or is not now happening
or will not happen some time, in some world or another? The possible combinations are perhaps
infinite. It only remains to know whether all that is imaginable is possible.

It may also be said, and with justice, that much of what I am about to set forth is merely
a repetition of ideas which have been expressed a hundred times before and a hundred times
refuted; but the repetition of an idea really implies that its refutation has not been final.
And as I do not pretend that the majority of these fancies are new, so neither do I pretend,
obviously, that other voices before mine have not spoken to the winds the same laments. But
when yet another voice echoes the same eternal lament it can only be inferred that the same
grief still dwells in the heart.

And it comes not amiss to repeat yet once again the same eternal lamentations that were already
old in the days of Job and Ecclesiastes, and even to repeat them in the same words, to the
end that the devotees of progress may see that there is something that never dies. Whosoever
repeats the "Vanity of vanities" of Ecclesiastes or the lamentations of Job, even though without
changing a letter, having first experienced them in his soul, performs a work of admonition.
Need is to repeat without ceasing the memento mori.

"But to what end?" you will ask. Even though it be only to the end that some people should
be irritated and should see that these things are not dead and, so long as men exist, cannot
die; to the end that they should be convinced that to-day, in the twentieth century, all the
bygone centuries and all of them alive, are still subsisting. When a supposed error reappears,
it must be, believe me, that it has not ceased to be true in part, just as when one who was
dead reappears, it must be that he was not wholly dead.

Yes, I know well that others before me have felt what I feel and express; that many others
feel it to-day, although they keep silence about it. Why do I not keep silence about it too?
Well, for the very reason that most of those who feel it are silent about it; and yet, though
they are silent, they obey in silence that inner voice. And I do not keep silence about it
because it is for many the thing which must not be spoken, the abomination of abominations--infandum--and
I believe that it is necessary now and again to speak the thing which must not be spoken. But
if it leads to nothing? Even if it should lead only to irritating the devotees of progress,
those who believe that truth is consolation, it would lead to not a little. To irritating them
and making them say: Poor fellow! if he would only use his intelligence to better purpose!...
Someone perhaps will add that I do not know what I say, to which I shall reply that perhaps
he may be right--and being right is such a little thing!--but that I feel what I say and I
know what I feel and that suffices me. And that it is better to be lacking in reason than to
have too much of it.

And the reader who perseveres in reading me will also see how out of this abyss of despair
hope may arise, and how this critical position may be the well-spring of human, profoundly
human, action and effort, and of solidarity and even of progress. He will see its pragmatic
justification. And he will see how, in order to work, and to work efficaciously and morally,
there is no need of either of these two conflicting certainties, either that of faith or that
of reason, and how still less is there any need--this never under any circumstances--to shirk
the problem of the immortality of the soul, or to distort it idealistically--that is to say,
hypocritically. The reader will see how this uncertainty, with the suffering that accompanies
it, and the fruitless struggle to escape from it, may be and is a basis for action and morals.

And in the fact that it serves as a basis for action and morals, this feeling of uncertainty
and the inward struggle between reason on the one hand and faith and the passionate longing
for eternal life on the other, should find their justification in the eyes of the pragmatist.
But it must be clearly stated that I do not adduce this practical consequence in order to justify
the feeling, but merely because I encounter it in my inward experience. I neither desire to
seek, nor ought I to seek, any justification for this state of inward struggle and uncertainty
and longing; it is a fact and that suffices. And if anyone finding himself in this state, in
the depth of the abyss, fails to find there motives for and incentives to life and action,
and concludes by committing bodily or spiritual suicide, whether he kills himself or he abandons
all co-operation with his fellows in human endeavour, it will not be I who will pass censure
upon him. And apart from the fact that the evil consequences of a doctrine, or rather those
which we call evil, only prove, I repeat, that the doctrine is disastrous for our desires,
but not that it is false in itself, the consequences themselves depend not so much upon the
doctrine as upon him who deduces them. The same principle may furnish one man with grounds
for action and another man with grounds for abstaining from action, it may lead one man to
direct his effort towards a certain end and another man towards a directly opposite end. For
the truth is that our doctrines are usually only the justification a posteriori of our conduct,
or else they are our way of trying to explain that conduct to ourselves.

Man, in effect, is unwilling to remain in ignorance of the motives of his own conduct. And
just as a man who has been led to perform a certain action by hypnotic suggestion will afterwards
invent reasons which would justify it and make it appear logical to himself and others, being
unaware all the time of the real cause of his action, so every man--for since "life is a dream"
every man is in a condition of hypnotism--seeks to find reasons for his conduct. And if the
pieces on a chessboard were endowed with consciousness, they would probably have little difficulty
in ascribing their moves to freewill--that is to say, they would claim for them a finalist
rationality. And thus it comes about that every philosophic theory serves to explain and justify
an ethic, a doctrine of conduct, which has its real origin in the inward moral feeling of the
author of the theory. But he who harbours this feeling may possibly himself have no clear consciousness
of its true reason or cause.

Consequently, if my reason, which is in a certain sense a part of the reason of all my brothers
in humanity in time and space, teaches me this absolute scepticism in respect of what concerns
my longing for never-ending life, I think that I can assume that my feeling of life, which
is the essence of life itself, my vitality, my boundless appetite for living and my abhorrence
of dying, my refusal to submit to death--that it is this which suggests to me the doctrines
with which I try to counter-check the working of the reason. Have these doctrines an objective
value? someone will ask me, and I shall answer that I do not understand what this objective
value of a doctrine is. I will not say that the more or less poetical and unphilosophical doctrines
that I am about to set forth are those which make me live; but I will venture to say that it
is my longing to live and to live for ever that inspires these doctrines within me. And if
by means of them I succeed in strengthening and sustaining this same longing in another, perhaps
when it was all but dead, then I shall have performed a man's work and, above all, I shall
have lived. In a word, be it with reason or without reason or against reason, I am resolved
not to die. And if, when at last I die out, I die out altogether, then I shall not have died
out of myself--that is, I shall not have yielded myself to death, but my human destiny will
have killed me. Unless I come to lose my head, or rather my heart, I will not abdicate from
life--life will be wrested from me.

To have recourse to those, ambiguous words, "optimism" and "pessimism," does not assist us
in any way, for frequently they express the very contrary of what those who use them mean to
express. To ticket a doctrine with the label of pessimism is not to impugn its validity, and
the so-called optimists are not the most efficient in action. I believe, on the contrary, that
many of the greatest heroes, perhaps the greatest of all, have been men of despair and that
by despair they have accomplished their mighty works. Apart from this, however, and accepting
in all their ambiguity these denominations of optimism and pessimism, that there exists a certain
transcendental pessimism which may be the begetter of a temporal and terrestrial optimism,
is a matter that I propose to develop in the following part of this treatise.

Very different, well I know, is the attitude of our progressives, the partisans of "the central
current of contemporary European thought"; but I cannot bring myself to believe that these
individuals do not voluntarily close their eyes to the grand problem of existence and that,
in endeavouring to stifle this feeling of the tragedy of life, they themselves are not living
a lie.

The foregoing reflections are a kind of practical summary of the criticism developed in the
first six chapters of this treatise, a kind of definition of the practical position to which
such a criticism is capable of leading whosoever will not renounce life and will not renounce
reason and who is compelled to live and act between these upper and nether millstones which
grind upon the soul. The reader who follows me further is now aware that I am about to carry
him into the region of the imagination, of imagination not destitute of reason, for without
reason nothing subsists, but of imagination founded on feeling. And as regards its truth, the
real truth, that which is independent of ourselves, beyond the reach of our logic and of our
heart--of this truth who knows aught?

FOOTNOTES:

[31] See Troeltsch, Systematische christliche Religion, in Die Kultur der Gegenwart series.

[32] Die Analyse der Empfindigungen und das Verhältniss des Physischen zum Psychischen, i.,
§ 12, note.

[33] I have left the original expression here, almost without translating it--Existents-Consequents.
It means the existential or practical, not the purely rational or logical, consequence. (Author's
note.)

[34] Albrecht Ritschl: Geschichte des Pietismus, ii., Abt. i., Bonn, 1884, p. 251.

[35] Thou art the cause of my suffering, O non-existing God, for if Thou didst exist, then
should I also really exist.

VII

LOVE, SUFFERING, PITY, AND PERSONALITY

    CAIN: Let me, or happy or unhappy, learn
          To anticipate my immortality.

    LUCIFER: Thou didst before I came upon thee.

    CAIN:                                       How?

    LUCIFER: By suffering.

                BYRON: Cain, Act II., Scene I.

The most tragic thing in the world and in life, readers and brothers of mine, is love. Love
is the child of illusion and the parent of disillusion; love is consolation in desolation;
it is the sole medicine against death, for it is death's brother.

    Fratelli, a un tempo stesso, Amore e Morte
    Ingeneró la sorte,

as Leopardi sang.

Love seeks with fury, through the medium of the beloved, something beyond, and since it finds
it not, it despairs.

Whenever we speak of love there is always present in our memory the idea of sexual love, the
love between man and woman, whose end is the perpetuation of the human race upon the earth.
Hence it is that we never succeed in reducing love either to a purely intellectual or to a
purely volitional element, putting aside that part in it which belongs to the feeling, or,
if you like, to the senses. For, in its essence, love is neither idea nor volition; rather
it is desire, feeling; it is something carnal in spirit itself. Thanks to love, we feel all
that spirit has of flesh in it.

Sexual love is the generative type of every other love. In love and by love we seek to perpetuate
ourselves, and we perpetuate ourselves on the earth only on condition that we die, that we
yield up our life to others. The humblest forms of animal life, the lowest of living beings,
multiply by dividing themselves, by splitting into two, by ceasing to be the unit which they
previously formed.

But when at last the vitality of the being that multiplies itself by division is exhausted,
the species must renew the source of life from time to time by means of the union of two wasting
individuals, by means of what is called, among protozoaria, conjugation. They unite in order
to begin dividing again with more vigour. And every act of generation consists in a being's
ceasing to be what it was, either wholly or in part, in a splitting up, in a partial death.
To live is to give oneself, to perpetuate oneself, and to perpetuate oneself and to give oneself
is to die. The supreme delight of begetting is perhaps nothing but a foretaste of death, the
eradication of our own vital essence. We unite with another, but it is to divide ourselves;
this most intimate embrace is only a most intimate sundering. In its essence, the delight of
sexual love, the genetic spasm, is a sensation of resurrection, of renewing our life in another,
for only in others can we renew our life and so perpetuate ourselves.

Without doubt there is something tragically destructive in the essence of love, as it presents
itself to us in its primitive animal form, in the unconquerable instinct which impels the male
and the female to mix their being in a fury of conjunction. The same impulse that joins their
bodies, separates, in a certain sense, their souls; they hate one another, while they embrace,
no less than they love, and above all they contend with one another, they contend for a third
life, which as yet is without life. Love is a contention, and there are animal species in which
the male maltreats the female in his union with her, and other in which the female devours
the male after being fertilized by him.

It has been said that love is a mutual selfishness; and, in fact, each one of the lovers seeks
to possess the other, and in seeking his own perpetuation through the instrumentality of the
other, though without being at the time conscious of it or purposing it, he thereby seeks his
own enjoyment. Each one of the lovers is an immediate instrument of enjoyment and a mediate
instrument of perpetuation, for the other. And thus they are tyrants and slaves, each one at
once the tyrant and slave of the other.

Is there really anything strange in the fact that the deepest religious feeling has condemned
carnal love and exalted virginity? Avarice, said the Apostle, is the root of all evil, and
the reason is because avarice takes riches, which are only a means, for an end; and therein
lies the essence of sin, in taking means for ends, in not recognizing or in disesteeming the
end. And since it takes enjoyment for the end, whereas it is only the means, and not perpetuation,
which is the true end, what is carnal love but avarice? And it is possible that there are some
who preserve their virginity in order the better to perpetuate themselves, and in order to
perpetuate something more human than the flesh.

For it is the suffering flesh, it is suffering, it is death, that lovers perpetuate upon the
earth. Love is at once the brother, son, and father of death, which is its sister, mother,
and daughter. And thus it is that in the depth of love there is a depth of eternal despair,
out of which spring hope and consolation. For out of this carnal and primitive love of which
I have been speaking, out of this love of the whole body with all its senses, which is the
animal origin of human society, out of this loving-fondness, rises spiritual and sorrowful love.

This other form of love, this spiritual love, is born of sorrow, is born of the death of carnal
love, is born also of the feeling of compassion and protection which parents feel in the presence
of a stricken child. Lovers never attain to a love of self abandonment, of true fusion of soul
and not merely of body, until the heavy pestle of sorrow has bruised their hearts and crushed
them in the same mortar of suffering. Sensual love joined their bodies but disjoined their
souls; it kept their souls strangers to one another; but of this love is begotten a fruit of
their flesh--a child. And perchance this child, begotten in death, falls sick and dies. Then
it comes to pass that over the fruit of their carnal fusion and spiritual separation and estrangement,
their bodies now separated and cold with sorrow but united by sorrow their souls, the lovers,
the parents, join in an embrace of despair, and then is born, of the death of the child of
their flesh, the true spiritual love. Or rather, when the bond of flesh which united them is
broken, they breathe with a sigh of relief. For men love one another with a spiritual love
only when they have suffered the same sorrow together, when through long days they have ploughed
the stony ground bowed beneath the common yoke of a common grief. It is then that they know
one another and feel one another, and feel with one another in their common anguish, they pity
one another and love one another. For to love is to pity; and if bodies are united by pleasure,
souls are united by pain.

And this is felt with still more clearness and force in the seeding, the taking root, and the
blossoming of one of those tragic loves which are doomed to contend with the diamond-hard laws
of Destiny--one of those loves which are born out of due time and season, before or after the
moment, or out of the normal mode in which the world, which is custom, would have been willing
to welcome them. The more barriers Destiny and the world and its law interpose between the
lovers, the stronger is the impulse that urges them towards one another, and their happiness
in loving one another turns to bitterness, and their unhappiness in not being able to love
freely and openly grows heavier, and they pity one another from the bottom of their hearts;
and this common pity, which is their common misery and their common happiness, gives fire and
fuel to their love. And they suffer their joy, enjoying their suffering. And they establish
their love beyond the confines of the world, and the strength of this poor love suffering beneath
the yoke of Destiny gives them intuition of another world where there is no other law than
the liberty of love--another world where there are no barriers because there is no flesh. For
nothing inspires us more with hope and faith in another world than the impossibility of our
love truly fructifying in this world of flesh and of appearances.

And what is maternal love but compassion for the weak, helpless, defenceless infant that craves
the mother's milk and the comfort of her breast? And woman's love is all maternal.

To love with the spirit is to pity, and he who pities most loves most. Men aflame with a burning
charity towards their neighbours are thus enkindled because they have touched the depth of
their own misery, their own apparentiality, their own nothingness, and then, turning their
newly opened eyes upon their fellows, they have seen that they also are miserable, apparential,
condemned to nothingness, and they have pitied them and loved them.

Man yearns to be loved, or, what is the same thing, to be pitied. Man wishes others to feel
and share his hardships and his sorrows. The roadside beggar's exhibition of his sores and
gangrened mutilations is something more than a device to extort alms from the passer-by. True
alms is pity rather than the pittance that alleviates the material hardships of life. The beggar
shows little gratitude for alms thrown to him by one who hurries past with averted face; he
is more grateful to him who pities him but does not help than to him who helps but does not
pity, although from another point of view he may prefer the latter. Observe with what satisfaction
he relates his woes to one who is moved by the story of them. He desires to be pitied, to be loved.

Woman's love, above all, as I have remarked, is always compassionate in its essence--maternal.
Woman yields herself to the lover because she feels that his desire makes him suffer. Isabel
had compassion upon Lorenzo, Juliet upon Romeo, Francesca upon Paolo. Woman seems to say: "Come,
poor one, thou shalt not suffer so for my sake!" And therefore is her love more loving and
purer than that of man, braver and more enduring.

Pity, then, is the essence of human spiritual love, of the love that is conscious of being
love, of the love that is not purely animal, of the love, in a word, of a rational person.
Love pities, and pities most when it loves most.

Reversing the terms of the adage nihil volitum quin præcognitum, I have told you that nihil
cognitum quin prævolitum, that we know nothing save what we have first, in one way or another,
desired; and it may even be added that we can know nothing well save what we love, save what
we pity.

As love grows, this restless yearning to pierce to the uttermost and to the innermost, so it
continually embraces all that it sees, and pities all that it embraces. According as you turn
inwards and penetrate more deeply into yourself, you will discover more and more your own emptiness,
that you are not all that you are not, that you are not what you would wish to be, that you
are, in a word, only a nonentity. And in touching your own nothingness, in not feeling your
permanent base, in not reaching your own infinity, still less your own eternity, you will have
a whole-hearted pity for yourself, and you will burn with a sorrowful love for yourself--a
love that will consume your so-called self-love, which is merely a species of sensual self-delectation,
the self-enjoyment, as it were, of the flesh of your soul.

Spiritual self-love, the pity that one feels for oneself, may perhaps be called egotism; but
nothing could be more opposed to ordinary egoism. For this love or pity for yourself, this
intense despair, bred of the consciousness that just as before you were born you were not,
so after your death you will cease to be, will lead you to pity--that is, to love--all your
fellows and brothers in this world of appearance, these unhappy shadows who pass from nothingness
to nothingness, these sparks of consciousness which shine for a moment in the infinite and
eternal darkness. And this compassionate feeling for other men, for your fellows, beginning
with those most akin to you, those with whom you live, will expand into a universal pity for
all living things, and perhaps even for things that have not life but merely existence. That
distant star which shines up there in the night will some day be quenched and will turn to
dust and will cease to shine and cease to exist. And so, too, it will be with the whole of
the star-strewn heavens. Unhappy heavens!

And if it is grievous to be doomed one day to cease to be, perhaps it would be more grievous
still to go on being always oneself, and no more than oneself, without being able to be at
the same time other, without being able to be at the same time everything else, without being
able to be all.

If you look at the universe as closely and as inwardly as you are able to look--that is to
say, if you look within yourself; if you not only contemplate but feel all things in your own
consciousness, upon which all things have traced their painful impression--you will arrive
at the abyss of the tedium, not merely of life, but of something more: at the tedium of existence,
at the bottomless pit of the vanity of vanities. And thus you will come to pity all things;
you will arrive at universal love.

In order to love everything, in order to pity everything, human and extra-human, living and
non-living, you must feel everything within yourself, you must personalize everything. For
everything that it loves, everything that it pities, love personalizes. We only pity--that
is to say, we only love--that which is like ourselves and in so far as it is like ourselves,
and the more like it is the more we love; and thus our pity for things, and with it our love,
grows in proportion as we discover in them the likenesses which they have with ourselves. Or,
rather, it is love itself, which of itself tends to grow, that reveals these resemblances to
us. If I am moved to pity and love the luckless star that one day will vanish from the face
of heaven, it is because love, pity, makes me feel that it has a consciousness, more or less
dim, which makes it suffer because it is no more than a star, and a star that is doomed one
day to cease to be. For all consciousness is consciousness of death and of suffering.

Consciousness (conscientia) is participated knowledge, is co-feeling, and co-feeling is com-passion.
Love personalizes all that it loves. Only by personalizing it can we fall in love with an idea.
And when love is so great and so vital, so strong and so overflowing, that it loves everything,
then it personalizes everything and discovers that the total All, that the Universe, is also
a Person possessing a Consciousness, a Consciousness which in its turn suffers, pities, and
loves, and therefore is consciousness. And this Consciousness of the Universe, which love,
personalizing all that it loves, discovers, is what we call God. And thus the soul pities God
and feels itself pitied by Him; loves Him and feels itself loved by Him, sheltering its misery
in the bosom of the eternal and infinite misery, which, in eternalizing itself and infinitizing
itself, is the supreme happiness itself.

God is, then, the personalization of the All; He is the eternal and infinite Consciousness
of the Universe--Consciousness taken captive by matter and struggling to free himself from
it. We personalize the All in order to save ourselves from Nothingness; and the only mystery
really mysterious is the mystery of suffering.

Suffering is the path of consciousness, and by it living beings arrive at the possession of
self-consciousness. For to possess consciousness of oneself, to possess personality, is to
know oneself and to feel oneself distinct from other beings, and this feeling of distinction
is only reached through an act of collision, through suffering more or less severe, through
the sense of one's own limits. Consciousness of oneself is simply consciousness of one's own
limitation. I feel myself when I feel that I am not others; to know and to feel the extent
of my being is to know at what point I cease to be, the point beyond which I no longer am.

And how do we know that we exist if we do not suffer, little or much? How can we turn upon
ourselves, acquire reflective consciousness, save by suffering? When we enjoy ourselves we
forget ourselves, forget that we exist; we pass over into another, an alien being, we alienate
ourselves. And we become centred in ourselves again, we return to ourselves, only by suffering.

"The bitterest sorrow that man can know is to aspire to do much and to achieve nothing" (polla
phroneoita mêdenos chrateein)--so Herodotus relates that a Persian said to a Theban at a banquet
(book ix., chap. xvi.). And it is true. With knowledge and desire we can embrace everything,
or almost everything; with the will nothing, or almost nothing. And contemplation is not happiness--no!
not if this contemplation implies impotence. And out of this collision between our knowledge
and our power pity arises.

We pity what is like ourselves, and the greater and clearer our sense of its likeness with
ourselves, the greater our pity. And if we may say that this likeness provokes our pity, it
may also be maintained that it is our reservoir of pity, eager to diffuse itself over everything,
that makes us discover the likeness of things with ourselves, the common bond that unites us
with them in suffering.

Our own struggle to acquire, preserve, and increase our own consciousness makes us discover
in the endeavours and movements and revolutions of all things a struggle to acquire, preserve,
and increase consciousness, to which everything tends. Beneath the actions of those most akin
to myself, of my fellow-men, I feel--or, rather, I co-feel--a state of consciousness similar
to that which lies beneath my own actions. On hearing my brother give a cry of pain, my own
pain awakes and cries in the depth of my consciousness. And in the same way I feel the pain
of animals, and the pain of a tree when one of its branches is being cut off, and I feel it
most when my imagination is alive, for the imagination is the faculty of intuition, of inward
vision.

Proceeding from ourselves, from our own human consciousness, the only consciousness which we
feel from within and in which feeling is identical with being, we attribute some sort of consciousness,
more or less dim, to all living things, and even to the stones themselves, for they also live.
And the evolution of organic beings is simply a struggle to realize fullness of consciousness
through suffering, a continual aspiration to be others without ceasing to be themselves, to
break and yet to preserve their proper limits.

And this process of personalization or subjectivization of everything external, phenomenal,
or objective, is none other than the vital process of philosophy in the contest of life against
reason and of reason against life. We have already indicated it in the preceding chapter, and
we must now confirm it by developing it further.

Giovanni Baptista Vico, with his profound esthetic penetration into the soul of antiquity,
saw that the spontaneous philosophy of man was to make of himself the norm of the universe,
guided by the instinto d'animazione. Language, necessarily anthropomorphic, mythopeic, engenders
thought. "Poetic wisdom, which was the primitive wisdom of paganism," says Vico in his Scienza
Nuova, "must have begun with a metaphysic, not reasoned and abstract, like that of modern educated
men, but felt and imagined, such as must have been that of primitive men. This was their own
poetry, which with them was inborn, an innate faculty, for nature had furnished them with such
feelings and such imaginations, a faculty born of the ignorance of causes, and therefore begetting
a universal sense of wonder, for knowing nothing they marvelled greatly at everything. This
poetry had a divine origin, for, while they invented the causes of things out of their own
imagination, at the same time they regarded these causes with feelings of wonder as gods. In
this way the first men of the pagan peoples, as children of the growing human race, fashioned
things out of their ideas.... This nature of human things has bequeathed that eternal property
which Tacitus elucidated with a fine phrase when he said, not without reason, that men in their
terror fingunt simul creduntque."

And then, passing from the age of imagination, Vico proceeds to show us the age of reason,
this age of ours in which the mind, even the popular mind, is too remote from the senses, "with
so many abstractions of which all languages are full," an age in which "the ability to conceive
an immense image of such a personage as we call sympathetic Nature is denied to us, for though
the phrase 'Dame Nature' may be on our lips, there is nothing in our minds that corresponds
with it, our minds being occupied with the false, the non-existent." "To-day," Vico continues,
"it is naturally impossible for us to enter into the vast imagination of these primitive men."
But is this certain? Do not we continue to live by the creations of their imagination, embodied
for ever in the language with which we think, or, rather, the language which thinks in us?

It was in vain that Comte declared that human thought had already emerged from the age of theology
and was now emerging from the age of metaphysics into the age of positivism; the three ages
coexist, and although antagonistic they lend one another mutual support. High-sounding positivism,
whenever it ceases to deny and begins to affirm something, whenever it becomes really positive,
is nothing but metaphysics; and metaphysics, in its essence, is always theology, and theology
is born of imagination yoked to the service of life, of life with its craving for immortality.

Our feeling of the world, upon which is based our understanding of it, is necessarily anthropomorphic
and mythopeic. When rationalism dawned with Thales of Miletus, this philosopher abandoned Oceanus
and Thetis, gods and the progenitors of gods, and attributed the origin of things to water;
but this water was a god in disguise. Beneath nature (phhysist) and the world (khosmos), mythical
and anthropomorphic creations throbbed with life. They were implicated in the structure of
language itself. Xenophon tells us (Memorabilia, i., i., 6-9) that among phenomena Socrates
distinguished between those which were within the scope of human study and those which the
gods had reserved for themselves, and that he execrated the attempt of Anaxagoras to explain
everything rationally. His contemporary, Hippocrates, regarded diseases as of divine origin,
and Plato believed that the sun and stars were animated gods with their souls (Philebus, cap.
xvi., Laws, x.), and only permitted astronomical investigation so long as it abstained from
blasphemy against these gods. And Aristotle in his Physics tells us that Zeus rains not in
order that the corn may grow, but by necessity (ex anharchêst). They tried to mechanize and
rationalize God, but God rebelled against them.

And what is the concept of God, a concept continually renewed because springing out of the
eternal feeling of God in man, but the eternal protest of life against reason, the unconquerable
instinct of personalization? And what is the notion of substance itself but the objectivization
of that which is most subjective--that is, of the will or consciousness? For consciousness,
even before it knows itself as reason, feels itself, is palpable to itself, is most in harmony
with itself, as will, and as will not to die. Hence that rhythm, of which we spoke, in the
history of thought. Positivism inducted us into an age of rationalism--that is to say, of materialism,
mechanism, or mortalism; and behold now the return of vitalism, of spiritualism. What was the
effort of pragmatism but an effort to restore faith in the human finality of the universe?
What is the effort of a Bergson, for example, especially in his work on creative evolution,
but an attempt to re-integrate the personal God and eternal consciousness? Life never surrenders.

