"My mama was Sam Oliver's slave, but my papa lived a mile away with Masta Sam Carlow. We lived
in box houses and slep' on wood beds and we et co'nbread and peas and grits and lots of rabbits
and 'possums. Mama cooked it on the fireplace.

"Masta Sam's house was big and had six big rooms with a hall through the middle and the kitchen
sot way off in the ya'd and had a big cellar under it. Masta Sam had a big orchard and put
apples and pears in the cellar for the winter. My brothers use' to slip under there and steal
them and mama'd whip 'em.

"The big house set 'mong big oak trees and the slaves houses was scattered roun' the back.
Masta Sam had a ole cowhorn he use' to blow for the niggers to come outta the fiel'.

"Mos' all us chillen wen' fishin' on Saturday and we'd fish with pins. One day I slipped off
and caught a whole string of fish.

"We learned to read and write and we wen' to church with the white folks. Masta Sam was good
to us and gave us plenty food and clothes.

"I never was 'fraid of haints and I never see none, but I know some seen 'em.

"I married John Jackson in a white muslin dress and we was married by Dan Sherman, a cullud
preacher from Jefferson. I married John 'cause I loved him and we didn' fuss and fight. I has
five chillen and five grandchillen.

420083

     MARTIN JACKSON, who calls himself a "black Texan", well deserves to
     select a title of more distinction, for it is quite possible that
     he is the only living former slave who served in both the Civil War
     and the World War. He was born in bondage in Victoria Co., Texas,
     in 1847, the property of Alvy Fitzpatrick. This self-respecting
     Negro is totally blind, and when a person touches him on the arm to
     guide him he becomes bewildered and asks his helper to give verbal
     directions, up, down, right or left. It may be he has been on his
     own so long that he cannot, at this late date, readjust himself to
     the touch of a helping hand. His mind is uncommonly clear and he
     speaks with no Negro colloquialisms and almost no dialect.

Following directions as to where to find Martin Jackson, "the most remarkable Negro in San
Antonio," a researcher made his way to an old frame house at 419 Center St., walked up the
steps and through the house to an open door of a rear room. There, on an iron bed, lay a long,
thin Negro, smoking a cigarette. He was dressed in a woolen undershirt and black trousers and
his beard and mustache were trimmed much after the fashion of white gallants of the Gay Nineties.
His head was remarkably well-shaped, with striking eminences in his forehead over his brows.

After a moment the intruder spoke and announced his mission. The old Negro, who is stone blind,
quickly admitted that he was Martin Jackson, but before making any further comment he carried
on an efficient interview himself; he wanted to know who the caller was, who had directed the
visit, and just what branch of the Federal service happened to be interested in the days of
slavery. These questions satisfactorily answered, he went into his adventures and experiences,
embellishing the highlights with uncommon discernment and very little prodding by the researcher.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I have about 85 years of good memory to call on. I'm ninety, and so I'm not counting my first
five years of life. I'll try to give you as clear a picture as I can. If you want to give me
a copy of what you are going to write, I'll appreciate it. Maybe some of my children would
like to have it.

"I was here in Texas when the Civil War was first talked about. I was here when the War started
and followed my young master into it with the First Texas Cavalry. I was here during reconstruction,
after the War. I was here during the European World War and the second week after the United
States declared war on Germany I enlisted as cook at Camp Leon Springs.

"This sounds as if I liked the war racket. But, as a matter of fact, I never wore a uniform--grey
coat or khaki coat--or carried a gun, unless it happened to be one worth saving after some
Confederate soldier got shot. I was official lugger-in of men that got wounded, and might have
been called a Red Cross worker if we had had such a corps connected with our company. My father
was head cook for the battalion and between times I helped him out with the mess. There was
some difference in the food served to soldiers in 1861 and 1917!

"Just what my feelings was about the War, I have never been able to figure out myself. I knew
the Yanks were going to win, from the beginning. I wanted them to win and lick us Southerners,
but I hoped they was going to do it without wiping out our company. I'll come back to that
in a minute. As I said, our company was the First Texas Cavalry. Col. Buchell was our commander.
He was a full-blooded German and as fine a man and a soldier as you ever saw. He was killed
at the Battle of Marshall and died in my arms. You may also be interested to know that my old
master, Alvy Fitzpatrick, was the grandfather of Governor Jim Ferguson.

"Lots of old slaves closes the door before they tell the truth about their days of slavery.
When the door is open, they tell how kind their masters was and how rosy it all was. You can't
blame them for this, because they had plenty of early discipline, making them cautious about
saying anything uncomplimentary about their masters. I, myself, was in a little different position
than most slaves and, as a consequence, have no grudges or resentment. However, I can tell
you the life of the average slave was not rosy. They were dealt out plenty of cruel suffering.

"Even with my good treatment, I spent most of my time planning and thinking of running away.
I could have done it easy, but my old father used to say, 'No use running from bad to worse,
hunting better.' Lots of colored boys did escape and joined the Union army, and there are plenty
of them drawing a pension today. My father was always counseling me. He said, 'Every man has
to serve God under his own vine and fig tree.' He kept pointing out that the War wasn't going
to last forever, but that our forever was going to be spent living among the Southeners, after
they got licked. He'd cite examples of how the whites would stand flatfooted and fight for
the blacks the same as for members of their own family. I knew that all was true, but still
I rebelled, from inside of me. I think I really was afraid to run away, because I thought my
conscience would haunt me. My father knew I felt this way and he'd rub my fears in deeper.
One of his remarks still rings in my ears: 'A clear conscience opens bowels, and when you have
a guilty soul it ties you up and death will not for long desert you.'

"No, sir, I haven't had any education. I should have had one, though. My old missus was sorry,
after the War, that she didn't teach me. Her name, before she married my old master, was Mrs.
Long. She lived in New York City and had three sons. When my old master's wife died, he wrote
up to a friend of his in New York, a very prominent merchant named C.C. Stewart. He told this
friend he wanted a wife and gave him specifications for one. Well, Mrs. Long, whose husband
had died, fitted the bill and she was sent down to Texas. She became Mrs. Fitzpatrick. She
wasn't the grandmother of Governor Ferguson. Old Fitzpatrick had two wives that preceded Mrs.
Long. One of the wives had a daughter named Fanny Fitzpatrick and it was her that was the Texas'
governor's mother. I seem to have the complicated family tree of my old master more clear than
I've got my own, although mine can be put in a nutshell: I married only once and was blessed
in it with 45 years of devotion. I had 13 children and a big crop of grandchildren.

"My earliest recollection is the day my old boss presented me to his son, Joe, as his property.
I was about five years old and my new master was only two.

"It was in the Battle of Marshall, in Louisiana, that Col. Buchell got shot. I was about three
miles from the front, where I had pitched up a kind of first-aid station. I was all alone there.
I watched the whole thing. I could hear the shooting and see the firing. I remember standing
there and thinking the South didn't have a chance. All of a sudden I heard someone call. It
was a soldier, who was half carrying Col. Buchell in. I didn't do nothing for the Colonel.
He was too far gone. I just held him comfortable, and that was the position he was in when
he stopped breathing. That was the worst hurt I got when anybody died. He was a friend of mine.
He had had a lot of soldiering before and fought in the Indian War.

"Well, the Battle of Marshall broke the back of the Texas Cavalry. We began straggling back
towards New Orleans, and by that time the War was over. The soldiers began to scatter. They
was a sorry-lookin' bunch of lost sheep. They didn't know where to go, but most of 'em ended
up pretty close to the towns they started from. They was like homing pigeons, with only the
instinct to go home and, yet, most of them had no homes to go to.

"No, sir, I never went into books. I used to handle a big dictionary three times a day, but
it was only to put it on a chair so my young master could sit up higher at the table. I never
went to school. I learned to talk pretty good by associating with my masters in their big house.

"We lived on a ranch of about 1,000 acres close to the Jackson County line in Victoria County,
about 125 miles from San Antonio. Just before the war ended they sold the ranch, slaves and
all, and the family, not away fighting, moved to Galveston. Of course, my father and me wasn't
sold with the other blacks, because we was away at war. My mother was drowned years before
when I was a little boy. I only remember her after she was dead. I can take you to the spot
in the river today where she was drowned. She drowned herself. I never knew the reason behind
it, but it was said she started to lose her mind and preferred death to that."

At this point in the old Negro's narrative the sound of someone singing was heard. A moment
later the door to the house slammed shut and in accompaniment to the tread of feet in the kitchen
came this song:

  "I sing because I'm happy,
  And I sing because I'm free--
  His eyes is on the sparrow
  And I know He watches me."

The singer glanced in the bedroom and the song ended with both embarrassment and anger:

  "Father! Why didn't you say you had callers?"

It was not long, however, before the singer, Mrs. Maggie Jackson, daughter-in-law of old Martin
Jackson, joined in the conversation.

"The master's name was usually adopted by a slave after he was set free. This was done more
because it was the logical thing to do and the easiest way to be identified than it was through
affection for the master. Also, the government seemed to be in a almighty hurry to have us
get names. We had to register as someone, so we could be citizens. Well, I got to thinking
about all us slaves that was going to take the name Fitzpatrick. I made up my mind I'd find
me a different one. One of my grandfathers in Africa was called Jeaceo, and so I decided to
be Jackson."

After this clear-headed Negro had posed for his photograph, the researcher took his leave and
the old blind man bade him a gracious "good-bye." He stood as if watching his new friend walking
away, and then lighted a cigarette.

"How long have you been smoking, Martin?" called back the researcher.

"I picked up the deadly habit," answered Martin, "over seventy-five years ago."

420137

     NANCY JACKSON, about 105 years old, was born in Madison Co.,
     Tennessee, a slave of the Griff Lacy family. She was married during
     slavery and was the mother of three children when she was freed. In
     1835, Nancy claims, she was brought to Texas by her owner, and has
     lived in Panola Co. all her life. She has no proof of her age and,
     of course, may be in the late nineties instead of over one hundred,
     as she thinks. She lives with her daughter about five miles west of
     Tatum, Tex.

"I's live in Panola County now going on 102 year and that a mighty long time for to 'member
back, but I'll try to rec'lect. I's born in Tennessee and I think it's in 1830 or 1832. I lives
with my baby chile what am now 57 year old and she's born when I's 'bout 'bout 33. But I ain't
sho' 'bout my age, noways.

"Massa Griff fetches us to Texas when I a baby and my brudders what am Redic and Anthony and
Essex and Allen and Brick and my sisters what am Ann and Matty and Charlotte, we all come to
Texas. Mammy come with us but pappy was sold off the Lacy place and stays in Tennessee.

"Massa had the bigges' house in them parts and a passel of slaves. Mammy's name was Letha,
and we have a purty good place to live and massa not bad to us. We was treated fair, I guesses,
but they allus whipped us niggers for somethin'. But when we got sick they'd git the doctor,
'cause losin' a nigger like losin' a pile of money in them days.

"Massa sometimes outlines the Bible to us and we had a song what we'd sing sometimes:

  "'Stand your storm, Stand your storm,
  Till the wind blows over,
  Stand your storm, Stand your storm,
  I's a sojer of the Cross,
  A follower of the Lamb.'

"We was woke by a bell and called to eat by a bell and put to bed by that bell and if that
bell ring outta time you'd see the niggers jumpin' rail fences and cotton rows like deers or
something, gettin' to that house, 'cause that mean something bad wrong at massa's house.

"I marries right here in Panola County while slavery still here and my brother-in-law marries
me and Lewis Blakely, and I's 'bout nineteen. My husban' 'longed to the Blakely's and after
the weddin' he had to go back to them and they 'lowed him come to see me once a week on Saturday
and he could stay till Sunday. I works on for the Lacy's more'n a year after slavery till Lewis
come got me and we moved to ourselves.

"I 'member one big time we done have in slavery. Massa gone and he wasn't gone. He left the
house 'tendin' go on a visit and missy and her chillen gone and us niggers give a big ball
the night they all gone. The leader of that ball had on massa's boots and he sing a song he
make up:

  "'Ole massa's gone to Philiman York
  And won't be back till July 4th to come;
  Fac' is, I don't know he'll be back at all,
  Come on all you niggers and jine this ball.'

"That night they done give that big ball, massa had blacked up and slip back in the house and
while they singin' and dancin', he sittin' by the fireplace all the time. 'Rectly he spit,
and the nigger who had on he boots recernizes him and tries climb up the chimmey."

420259

     RICHARD JACKSON, Harrison County farmer, was born in 1859, a slave
     of Watt Rosborough. Richard's family left the Rosboroughs when the
     Negroes were freed, and moved to a farm near Woodlawn. Richard
     married when he was twenty-five and moved to an adjoining farm,
     which he now owns.

"I was born on the Rosborough plantation in 1859 and 'longed to old man Watt Rosborough. He
brung my mammy out of North Carolina, but my pappy died when I was a baby, and mammy married
Will Jackson. Besides me they was six brothers, Jack and Nathan, Josh and Bill and Ben and
Mose. I had three sisters named Matilda and Charity and Anna.

