What were my own feelings as I saw the candidate quietly walk to the speakers' stand? I was
now to see almost face to face for the first time the man I had openly and bitterly denounced
only a few hours before. What reaction of regret or pleasure did I experience as I beheld the
vigorous, clean-cut, plainly garbed man, who now stood before me, cool and smiling? My first
reaction of regret came when he uttered these words:

    I feel the responsibility of the occasion. Responsibility is
    proportionate to opportunity. It is a great opportunity to serve the
    State and Nation. I did not seek this nomination, I have made no
    pledge and have given no promises. If elected, I am left absolutely
    free to serve you with all singleness of purpose. It is a new era when
    these things can be said, and in connection with this I feel that the
    dominant idea of the moment is the responsibility of deserving. I will
    have to serve the state very well in order to deserve the honour of
    being at its head.... Did you ever experience the elation of a great
    hope, that you desire to do right because it is right and without
    thought of doing it for your own interest? At that period your hopes
    are unselfish. This in particular is a day of unselfish purpose for
    Democracy. The country has been universally misled and the people have
    begun to believe that there is something radically wrong. And now we
    should make this era of hope one of realization through the Democratic
    party.

I had another reaction of regret when he said:

"Government is not a warfare of interests. We shall not gain our ends by heat and bitterness."
How simple the man, how modest, how cultured! Attempting none of the cheap "plays" of the old
campaign orator, he impressively proceeded with his thrilling speech, carrying his audience
with him under the spell of his eloquent words. How tense the moment! His words, spoken in
tones so soft, so fine, in voice so well modulated, so heart-stirring. Only a few sentences
are uttered and our souls are stirred to their very depths. It was not only what he said, but
the simple heart- stirring way in which he said it. The great climax came when he uttered these
moving words: "The future is not for parties 'playing politics' but for measures conceived
in the largest spirit, pushed by parties whose leaders are statesmen, not demagogues, who love
not their offices but their duty and their opportunity for service. We are witnessing a renaissance
of public spirit, a reawakening of sober public opinion, a revival of the power of the people,
the beginning of an age of thoughtful reconstruction that makes our thoughts hark back to the
age in which democracy was set up in America. With the new age we shall show a new spirit.
We shall serve justice and candour and all things that make, for the right. Is not our own
party disciplined and made ready for this great task? Shall we not forget ourselves in making
it the instrument of righteousness for the state and for the nation?"

After this climax there was a short pause. "Go on, go on," eagerly cried the crowd. The personal
magnetism of the man, his winning smile, so frank and so sincere, the light of his gray eyes,
the fine poise of his well- shaped head, the beautiful rhythm of his vigorous sentences, held
the men in the Convention breathless under their mystic spell. Men all about me cried in a
frenzy: "Thank God, at last, a leader has come!"

Then, the great ending. Turning to the flag that hung over the speakers' stand, he said, in
words so impressive as to bring almost a sob from his hearers:

    When I think of the flag which our ships carry, the only touch of
    colour about them, the only thing that moves as if it had a settled
    spirit in it--in their solid structure, it seems to me I see alternate
    strips of parchment upon which are written the rights of liberty and
    justice and strips of blood spilled to vindicate those rights and
    then--in the corner--a prediction of the blue serene into which every
    nation may swim which stands for these great things.

The speech is over. Around me there is a swirling mass of men whose hearts had been touched
by the great speech which is just at an end. Men stood about me with tears streaming from their
eyes. Realizing that they had just stood in the presence of greatness, it seemed as if they
had been lifted out of the selfish miasma of politics, and, in the spirit of the Crusaders,
were ready to dedicate themselves to the cause of liberating their state from the bondage of
special interests.

As I turned to leave the convention hall there stood at my side old John Crandall, of Atlantic
City, like myself a bitter, implacable foe of Woodrow Wilson, in the Convention. I watched
him intently to see what effect the speech had had upon him. For a minute he was silent, as
if in a dream, and then, drawing himself up to his full height, with a cynical smile on his
face, waving his hat and cane in the air, and at the same time shaking his head in a self-accusing
way, yelled at the top of his voice, "I am sixty-five years old, and still a damn fool!"

CHAPTER V

THE NEW JERSEY SALIENT

No campaign in New Jersey caused so great an interest as the gubernatorial campaign of 1910.
The introduction of a Princeton professor into the political melee in New Jersey had given
a novel touch to what ordinarily would have been a routine affair. The prologue to the great
drama, the various scenes of which were now to unfold before the voters of the state, had been
enacted at the Democratic Convention at Trenton under the masterly direction of the members
of the Democratic Old Guard of the state. New Jersey had long been noted throughout the country
as the "Mother of Trusts", and the nesting place of Privilege. Through their alliance and partnership
with the political bosses of both parties the so- called corporate interests had been for many
years successful, against the greatest pressure of public opinion, in blocking the passage
of progressive legislation.

Liberal-minded men in the state had for many years been carrying on an agitation for the enactment
into law of legislation that would make possible the following great needs:

  1. The passage of a Direct Primary Act.
  2. The passage of an Employers' Liability Act.
  3. The regulation of Public Utilities.
  4. The passage of a Corrupt Practices Act.

These were matters within the scope of state legislation, and to these was added an agitation
for a fifth reform, which, of course, could be accomplished only through an amendment to the
Constitution of the United States, the election of United States senators by vote of the people.

In the old days in New Jersey, now happily gone, the days when the granting of special corporation
charters was the vogue, a sort of political suzerainty was set up by Railroad and Public Service
interests. Every election was, in its last analysis, a solemn referendum upon the question
as to which corporate interest should control legislation-- whether the Pennsylvania Railroad,
whose master mind was the Republican leader of the state, United States Senator Sewall, or
the Public Service interests, whose votaries and friends were Senator Smith of New Jersey,
and Milan Ross, Sr., of Middlesex County.

While these corporate interests fought among themselves over the matter of a United States
senatorship or the governorship of a state, they were at one in their unrelenting, bitter,
and highly organized opposition to the passage of what in this day we call by the highly dignified
name of Social Welfare Legislation. The voices of those liberal-minded men and women of the
state, who, year after year, fought for this legislation, were like voices crying in the wilderness.
An illustration of corporate opposition was the unrelenting attitude of the Special Interest
group of the state to the passage of the Employers' Liability Act. Every decent, progressive,
humane man in the state felt that the old, barbaric, Fellow-Servant doctrine should be changed
and that there should be substituted for it a more humane, wholesome, modern doctrine. Nearly
every state in the Union had already recognized the injustice of the old rule, but the privileged
interests in New Jersey could not be moved in their bitter and implacable opposition to it,
and for over half a century they had succeeded in preventing its enactment into law. Progressives
or New Idea Republicans, high in the councils of that party, had fought with their Democratic
brethren to pass this legislation, but always without result. At last there came a revolt in
the Republican party, brought about and led by sturdy Republicans like Everett Colby of Essex,
and William P. Martin of the same county; George Record and Mark M. Fagan of my own county,
Hudson. Out of this split came the establishment in the ranks of the Republican party itself
of a faction which called itself the New Idea branch of the Republican party. The campaign
for humane legislation within the ranks of the G.O.P. was at last begun in real fighting fashion.
It was the irrepressible conflict between the old and the new, between those who believed human
rights are superior to and take precedence over property rights. The conflict could not be
stayed; its leaders could not be restrained. These men, Colby, Record, Martin, and Fagan, were
the sowers of the Progressive seed which Woodrow Wilson, by his genius for leadership and constructive
action along humane lines, was soon to harvest. His candidacy, therefore, admirably fitted
into the interesting situation.

When the convention that nominated Woodrow Wilson had adjourned, a convention wholly dominated
by reactionary bosses, it seemed as if progress and every fine thing for which the Progressives
had worked had been put finally to sleep. Behind the selection of the Princetonian and his
candidacy lay the Old Guard who thought the Professor could be used as a shield for their strategy.
The Progressives, both Democratic and Republican, had witnessed the scenes enacted at the Democratic
Convention at Trenton with breaking hearts. They were about to lose hope. They did not know
that the candidate had at the outset served notice on the Old Guard that if he were nominated
he must be a free man to do nobody's bidding, to serve no interests except those of the people
of the state; but the Old Guard had not published this.

The Republican candidate, nominated at the time Woodrow Wilson was selected, was a most pleasant,
kindly, genial man from Passaic, Mr. Vivian M. Lewis, who had just retired as banking commissioner
for the state. By clever plays to the Progressives he had, at least temporarily, brought together
the various progressive elements of the state. This movement apparently was aided by the Democratic
candidate's reluctance in the early days of the campaign to speak out boldly against the domination
of the Democratic party by the bosses or the Old Guard.

CHAPTER VI

SOMETHING NEW IN POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS

Woodrow Wilson opened his gubernatorial campaign with a speech in Jersey City, my home town.
It was a distinct disappointment to those who attended the meeting. His speech in accepting
the nomination had touched us deeply and had aroused in us great expectations, but after the
Jersey City speech we were depressed in spirit, for it seemed to us that he was evading the
real issues of the campaign. I was most anxious to meet the candidate and give him, if he invited
it, my impressions of this speech. A dinner given to complete the ceremonies attendant upon
the purchase of the Caldwell residence of Grover Cleveland gave me the first opportunity to
meet the president of Princeton in an intimate way. Mr. Wilson's first wife, a most delightful
woman, made the introduction possible. As I fondly look back upon this meeting, I vividly recall
my impressions of the man who had just been nominated for the governorship of the state in
a convention in which I had bitterly opposed him.

The democratic bearing of the man, his warmth of manner, charm, and kindly bearing were the
first things that attracted me to him. There was no coldness or austerity about him, nor was
he what the politicians would call "high-browish." He impressed me as a plain, unaffected,
affable gentleman, who was most anxious to receive advice and suggestion from any quarter.
He made us doubly welcome by saying that he had heard a great deal of favourable comment about
the work of Judge Sullivan and myself in the Legislature. This made us feel perfectly at home,
and this frank manner of dealing with us opened the way for the suggestions we desired to make
to him as to the attitude we younger Democrats thought he should assume on what we believed
were the vital, progressive issues of the campaign.

When he was informed that I was present at his first meeting a few nights before in Jersey
City, he came over to me and in a most friendly way said: "What did you really think of my
speech?" For a moment I was embarrassed, and yet the frankness of the man was compelling and
so I said: "Doctor, do you really desire an honest opinion of that speech? I really want to
serve you but I can do so only by speaking frankly." He replied: "That is what I most desire."
"Well," I said, "your speech was most disappointing." I stopped suddenly, feeling that I had
done enough damage to the Professor's feelings. But he urged: "Please tell me what your criticism
is. What I most need is honesty and frankness. You cannot hurt my feelings by truthfully expressing
your opinion. Don't forget that I am an amateur at this game and need advice and guidance."
Encouraged by this suggestion, I proceeded to tell him what I considered the principal defects
of his opening speech at Jersey City. I told him that there was a lack of definiteness in it
which gave rise to the impression that he was trying to evade a discussion of the moral issues
of the campaign, among them, of major importance, being the regulation of Public Utilities
and the passage of an Employers' Liability Act. Briefly sketching for him our legislative situation,
I gave him the facts with reference to those large measures of public interest; how, for many
years, in face of constant agitation, the Old Guard had prevented the enactment of these measures
into law, and how, therefore, his failure to discuss these matters in his first speech had
caused a grave feeling of unrest in the progressive ranks of both parties in New Jersey.

He listened with keen attention and then modestly remarked: "I value very highly this tip and
you may rest assured I shall cover these matters in my next speech. I meant that speech to
be general."

In my ignorance of things past I did not know that the candidate had himself written the platform
adopted by the Trenton Convention, and in my ignorance of the future I did not then know that
one of the boldest and most remarkable political campaigns in America was to be conducted on
that platform, and that after the election and inauguration of the nominee the chief business
of the legislation was destined to be the enactment into law of each of the planks of the platform,
a complete and itemized fulfilment of preelection promises, unusual in the history of American
politics. At the time of my first conversation with the nominee I only knew that the Convention
had been dominated by the reactionary elements in the party, that under this domination it
had stolen the thunder of the progressive elements of the party and of the New Idea Republicans,
and that the platform had been practically ignored by the candidate in his first campaign speech.
In these circumstances, and smarting as I was under the recollection of recent defeat, it is
not strange that I thought I detected the old political ruse of dressing the wolf in sheep's
clothing, of using handsome pledges as a mask to deceive the gullible, and that I assumed that
this scholarly amateur in politics was being used for their own purposes by masters and veterans
in the old game of thimblerig.

The candidate soon struck his gait and astonished me and all New Jersey with the vigour, frankness,
and lucidity of his speeches of exposition and appeal. No campaign in years in New Jersey had
roused such universal interest. There was no mistaking the character and enthusiasm of the
greeting the candidate received every place he spoke, nor the response his thrilling speeches
evoked all over the state. Those who had gathered the idea that the head of the great university
would appear pedantic and stand stiff-necked upon an academic pedestal from which he would
talk over the heads of the common people were forced, by the fighting, aggressive attitude
of the Doctor, to revise their old estimates. The campaign had only begun when the leading
newspapers of the country, particularly the large dailies of New York, were taking an interest
in the New Jersey fight.

Those of us who doubted Woodrow Wilson's sincerity and his sympathy for the great progressive
measures for which we had been fighting in the New Jersey Legislature were soon put at ease
by the developments of his campaign and his sympathetic attitude toward the things we had so
much at heart.

No candidate for governor in New Jersey had ever made so striking and moving an appeal. Forgetting
and ignoring the old slogans and shibboleths, he appealed to the hearts and consciences of
the people of the state. His homely illustrations evoked expressions of delight, until it seemed
as if this newcomer in the politics of our state had a better knowledge of the psychology of
the ordinary crowd than the old stagers who had spent their lives in politics. His illustrations
always went home.

For instance, speaking of progress, Doctor Wilson said that much depended upon the action of
the one who is supposed to be progressive. "I can recall," he would say in trying to make his
point, "the picture of a poor devil of a donkey on a treadmill. He keeps on tramping, tramping,
tramping, but he never gets anywhere. But," he continued, "there is a certain elephant that's
tramping, too, and how much progress is it making?" And then, again, he would grow solemn when
he spoke of the average man. Turning aside from the humorous, he would strike a serious note
like this one:

    You know that communities are not distinguished by exceptional men.
    They are distinguished by the average of their citizenship. I often
    think of the poor man when he goes to vote: a moral unit in his lonely
    dignity.

    The deepest conviction and passion of my heart is that the common
    people, by which I mean all of us, are to be absolutely trusted. The
    peculiarity of some representatives, particularly those of the
    Republican party, is that when they talk about the people, they
    obviously do not include themselves. Now if, when you think of the
    people, you are not thinking about yourself, then you do not belong in
    America.

