The treatment of the blackberry can best be indicated by merely noting wherein its requirements
differ from the last-named and kindred fruit. For instance, it does best on light soils and
in sunny exposures. The partial shade, and moist, heavy land in which the raspberry luxuriates
would produce a rank growth of canes that winter would generally find unripened, and unable
to endure the frost. Warm, well-drained, but not dry land, therefore, is the best. On hard,
dry ground, the fruit often never matures, but becomes mere collections of seeds. Therefore
the need in the preparation of the soil of deep plowing, and the thorough loosening, if possible,
of the subsoil with the lifting plow. Any one who has traced blackberry roots in light soils
will seek to give them foraging-room. Neither does this fruit require the fertility needed
in most instances by the raspberry. It inclines to grow too rankly at best, and demands mellowness
rather than richness of soil.

More room should also be given to the blackberry than to the raspberry. The rows should be
six feet apart in the garden and eight feet in field culture, and the plants set three feet
apart in the rows. At this distance, 1,815 are required for an acre, if one plant only is placed
in a hill. Since these plants are usually cheap, if one is small or unprovided with good roots,
it is well to plant two. If the ground is not very fertile, it is well to give the young plants
a good start by scattering a liberal quantity of muck compost down the furrow in which they
are planted. This ensures the most vigorous growth of young canes in the rows rather than in
the intervening spaces. As generally grown, they require support, and may be staked as raspberries.
Very often, cheap post-and-wire trellises are employed, and answer excellently. Under this
system they can be grown in a continuous and bushy row, with care against over-crowding.

The ideal treatment of the blackberry is management rather than culture. More can be done with
the thumb and finger at the right time than with the most savage pruning-shears after a year
of neglect. In May and June the perennial roots send up vigorous shoots that grow with amazing
rapidity, until from five to ten feet high. Very often, this summer growth is so brittle and
heavy with foliage, that thunder- gusts break them off from the parent stem just beneath the
ground, and the bearing cane of the coming year is lost. These and the following considerations
show the need of summer pruning. Tall, overgrown canes are much more liable to be injured by
frost. They need high and expensive supports. Such branchless canes are by no means so productive
as those which are made to throw out low and lateral shoots. They can always be made to do
this by a timely pinch that takes off the terminal bud of the cane. This stops its upward growth,
and the buds beneath it, which otherwise might remain dormant, are immediately forced to become
side branches near the ground, where the snow may cover them, and over which, in the garden,
straw or other light litter may be thrown, on the approach of winter. It thus is seen that
by early summer pinching the blackberry may be compelled to become as low and bushy a shrub
as we desire, and is made stocky and self-supporting at the same time. Usually it is not well
to let the bushes grow over four feet high; and in regions where they winter-kill badly, I
would keep them under three feet, so that the snow might be a protection. It should be remembered
that the Kittatinny is so nearly hardy that in almost all instances a very slight covering
saves it. The suckers that come up thickly between the rows can be cut away while small with
the least possible trouble; but leave the patch or field to its own wild impulses for a year
or so, and you may find a "slip of wilderness" in the midst of your garden that will require
not a little strength and patience to subdue. By far the best weapon for such a battle, and
the best implement also for cutting out the old wood, is a pair of long-handled shears.

CHAPTER XXV

CURRANTS--CHOICE OF SOIL, CULTIVATION, PRUNING, ETC.

They wore "curns" in our early boyhood, and "curns" they are still in the rural vernacular
of many regions. In old English they were "corrans," because the people associated them with
the raisins of the small Zante grape, once imported so exclusively from Corinth as to acquire
the name of that city.

Under the tribe Grossulariae of the Saxifrage family we find the Ribes containing many species
of currants and gooseberries; but, in accordance with the scope of this book, we shall quote
from Professor Gray (whose arrangement we follow) only those that furnish the currants of cultivation.

"Ribes rubrum, red currant, cultivated from Europe, also wild on our northern border, with
straggling or reclining stems, somewhat heart-shaped, moderately three to five lobed leaves,
the lobes roundish and drooping racemes from lateral buds distinct from the leaf buds; edible
berries red, or a white variety."

This is the parent of our cultivated red and white varieties. Currants are comparatively new-comers
in the garden. When the Greek and Roman writers were carefully noting and naming the fruits
of their time, the Ribes tribe was as wild as any of the hordes of the far North, in whose
dim, cold, damp woods and bogs it then flourished, but, like other Northern tribes, it is making
great improvement under the genial influences of civilization and culture.

Until within a century or two, gardeners who cultivated currants at all were content with wild
specimens from the woods. The exceedingly small, acid fruit of these wildings was not calculated
to inspire enthusiasm; but a people possessing the surer qualities of patience and perseverance
determined to develop them, and, as a result, we have the old Bed and White Dutch varieties,
as yet unsurpassed for the table. In the Victoria, Cherry, and White Grape, we have decided
advances in size, but not in flavor.

CHOICE AND PREPARATION OF SOIL

The secret of success in the culture of currants is suggested by the fact that nature has planted
nearly every species of the Ribes in cold, damp, northern exposures. Throughout the woods and
bogs of the Northern Hemisphere is found the scraggy, untamed, hurdy stock from which has been
developed the superb White Grape. As with people, so with plants: development does not eradicate
constitutional traits and tendencies. Beneath all is the craving for the primeval conditions
of life, and the best success with the currant and gooseberry will assuredly be obtained by
those who can give them a reasonable approach to the soil, climate, and culture suggested by
their damp, cold, native haunts. As with the strawberry, then, the first requisite is, not
wetness, but abundant and continuous moisture. Soils naturally deficient in this, and which
cannot be made drought-resisting by deep plowing and cultivation, are not adapted to the currant.
Because this fruit is found wild in bogs, it does not follow that it can be grown successfully
in undrained swamps. It will do better in such places than on dry, gravelly knolls, or on thin,
light soils; but our fine civilized varieties need civilized conditions. The well-drained swamp
may become the very best of currant fields; and damp, heavy land, that is capable of deep,
thorough cultivation, should be selected if possible. When such is not to be had, then, by
deep plowing, subsoiling, by abundant mulch around the plants throughout the summer, and by
occasional waterings in the garden, counteracting the effects of lightness and dryness of soil,
skill can go far in making good nature's deficiencies.

Next to depth of soil and moisture, the currant requires fertility. It is justly called one
of the "gross feeders," and is not particular as to the quality of its food, so that it is
abundant. I would still suggest, however, that it be fed according to its nature with heavy
composts, in which muck, leaf-mould, and the cleanings of the cow- stable are largely present.
Wood-ashes and bone-meal are also most excellent. If stable or other light manures must be
used, I would suggest that they be scattered liberally on the surface in the fall or early
spring and gradually worked in by cultivation. Thus used, their light heating qualities will
do no harm, and they will keep the surface mellow and, therefore, moist.

The shadowy, Northern haunts of the wild currant also suggest that it will falter and fail
under the Southern sun; and this is true, As we pass down through the Middle States, we find
it difficult to make thrive even the hardy White and Bed Dutch varieties, and a point is at
last reached when the bushes lose their leaves in the hot season, and die. From the latitude
of New York south, therefore, increasing effort should be made to supply the currants' constitutional
need, by giving partial shade among pear or widely set apple-trees, or, better still, by planting
on the northern side of fences, buildings, etc. By giving a cool, half-shady exposure in moist
land, the culture of the currant can be extended far to the south, especially in the high mountain
regions. Even well to the north it is unprofitable when grown on light, thin, poor land, unless
given liberal, skilful culture.

PLANTING, CULTIVATION AND PRUNING

I regard autumn as the best season for planting currants, but have succeeded nearly as well
in early spring. If kept moist, there is little danger of the plants dying at any time, but
those set in the fall or early spring make, the first year, a much larger growth than those
planted when the buds have developed into leaves. Since they start so early, they should be
set in the spring as soon as the ground is dry enough to work, and in the autumn, any time
after the leaves fall or the wood is ripe. The plants of commerce are one, two and three years
old, though not very many of the last are sold. I would as soon have one-year plants, if well
rooted, as any, since they are cheaper and more certain to make strong, vigorous bushes, if
given generous treatment in the open field, than if left crowded too long in nursery rows.
For the garden, where fruit is desired as soon as possible, two and three year old plants are
preferable. After planting, cut the young bushes back one-half or two-thirds, so as to ensure
new and vigorous growth.

In field culture, I recommend that the rows be five feet apart, and the plants four feet from
each other in the row. In this case 2,178 plants are required for an acre. If it is designed
to cultivate them both ways, let the plants be set at right angles five feet apart, an acre
now requiring 1,742 plants. Sink them two or three inches deeper than they stood in the nursery
rows, and although in preparation the ground was well enriched, a shovel of compost around
the young plant gives it a fine send-off, and hastens the development of a profitable bush.
In the field and for market, I would urge that currants be grown invariably in bush, rather
than in tree form. English writers, and some here who follow them, recommend the latter method;
but it is not adapted to our climate, and to such limited attention as we can afford to give.
The borers, moreover, having but a single stem to work upon, would soon cause many vacancies
in the rows.

Currants are grown for market with large and increasing profits; indeed, there is scarcely
a fruit that now pays better.

Mr. John S. Collins, of Moorestown, N. J., by the following ingenious, yet simple, invention,
is able to drive through his currant and raspberry fields without injuring the plants.

"An ordinary cart is changed by putting in an axle fifteen inches longer than usual, the wheels
thus making a track six feet and eight inches wide. The shafts and body of the cart are put
just as close to one wheel as possible, so that the horse and the wheel will pass as near together,
and as near in a line, as practicable. The axle of the other wheel being long, and bowing up
several inches higher than ordinary in the middle, it passes over a row of bushes with little
or no damage. Thus, fertilizers can be carried to all parts of the field."

Of course, it would not do to drive through bushes laden with fruit; but after they were picked,
such a vehicle could cause but little injury.

In the garden and for home use there is the widest latitude. We may content ourselves, as many
do, with a few old Red Dutch bushes that for a generation have struggled with grass and burdocks.
We may do a little better, and set out plants in ordinary garden soil, but forget for years
to give a particle of food to the starving bushes, remarking annually, with increasing emphasis,
that they must be "running out." Few plants of the garden need high feeding more, and no others
are more generally starved. I will guarantee that there are successful farmers who no more
think of manuring a currant bush than of feeding crows. This fruit will live, no matter how
we abuse it, but there are scarcely any that respond more quickly to generous treatment; and
in the garden where it is not necessary to keep such a single eye to the margin of profit,
many beautiful and interesting things can be done with the currant. The majority will be satisfied
with large, vigorous bushes, well enriched, mulched and skilfully pruned. If we choose, however,
we may train them into pretty little trees, umbrella, globe, or pyramid in shape, according
to our fancy, and by watchfulness and the use of ashes, keep away the borers. In one instance
I found a few vigorous shoots that had made a growth of nearly three feet in a single season.
With the exception of the terminal bud and three or four just below it, I disbudded these shoots
carefully, imbedded the lower ends six inches in moist soil as one would an ordinary cutting,
and they speedily took root and developed into little trees. Much taller and more ornamental
currant and gooseberry trees can be obtained by grafting any variety we wish on the Missouri
species (Ribes aureum). These can be made pretty and useful ornaments of the lawn, as well
as of the garden. Instead, therefore, of weed- choked, sprawling, unsightly objects, currant
bushes can be made things of beauty, as well as of sterling worth.

The cultivation of the currant is very simple. As early in the spring as the ground is dry
enough, it should be thoroughly stirred by plow or cultivator, and all perennial weeds and
grasses just around the bushes taken out with pronged hoes or forks. If a liberal top-dressing
of compost or some other fertilizer was not given in the autumn, which is the best time to
apply it, let it be spread over the roots (not up against the stems) before the first spring
cultivation. While the bushes are still young, they can be cultivated and kept clean, like
any hoed crop; but after they come into bearing--say the third summer --a different course
must be adopted. If the ground is kept mellow and bare under the bushes, the fruit will be
so splashed with earth as to be unsalable, and washed fruit is scarcely fit for the table.
We very properly wish it with just the bloom and coloring which Nature is a month or more in
elaborating. Muddy or rinsed fruit suggests the sty, not a dining-room. A mulch of leaves,
straw, evergreen boughs-- anything that will keep the ground clean--applied immediately after
the early spring culture, is the best and most obvious way of preserving the fruit; and this
method also secures all the good results which have been shown to follow mulching. Where it
is not convenient to mulch, I would suggest that the ground be left undisturbed after the first
thorough culture, until the fruit is gathered. The weeds that grow in the interval may be mowed,
and allowed to fall under the bushes. By the end of June, the soil will have become so fixed
that, with a partial sod of weeds, the fruit may hang over, or even rest upon it, without being
splashed by the heavy rains then prevalent. This course is not so neat as clean cultivation
or mulching. Few fruit growers, however, can afford to make appearances the first consideration.
I have heard of oats being sown among the bushes to keep the fruit clean, but their growth
must check the best development of the fruit quite as much as the natural crop of weeds. It
would be better to give clean culture, and grow rye, or any early maturing green crop, somewhere
else, and when the fruit begins to turn, spread this material under the bushes. On many places,
the mowings of weedy, swampy places would be found sufficient for the purpose. After the fruit
is gathered, start the cultivator and hoe at once, so as to secure vigorous foliage and healthful
growth throughout the entire summer.

Pruning may be done any time after the leaves fall, and success depends upon its judicious
and rigorous performance. The English gardeners have recognized this fact, and they have as
minute and careful a system as we apply to the grape. These formal and rather arbitrary methods
can scarcely be followed practically in our hurried American life. It seems to me that I can
do no better than to lay down some sound and general principles and leave their working out
to the judgment of the grower. In most instances, I imagine, our best gardeners rarely trim
two bushes exactly alike, but deal with each according to its vigor and natural tendencies;
for a currant bush has not a little individuality.

A young bush needs cutting back like a young grapevine, and for the same reason. A grapevine
left to itself would soon become a mass of tangled wood yielding but little fruit, and that
of inferior quality. In like manner nature, uncurbed, gives us a great, straggling bush that
is choked and rendered barren by its own luxuriance. Air and light are essential, and the knife
must make spaces for them. Cutting back and shortening branches develops fruit buds. Otherwise,
we have long, unproductive reaches of wood. This is especially true of the Cherry and other
varieties resembling it. The judicious use of the knife, kept up from year to year, will almost
double their productiveness. Again, too much very young and too much old wood are causes of
unfruitfulness. The skilful culturist seeks to produce and preserve many points of branching
and short spurs, for it is here that the little fruit buds cluster thickly. When a branch is
becoming black and feeble from age, cut it back to the root, that space may be given for younger
growth. From six to twelve bearing stems, from three to five feet high, with their shortened
branches and fruit spurs, may be allowed to grow from the roots, according to the vigor of
the plant and the space allotted to it. Usually, too many suckers start in the spring. Unless
the crop of young wood is valuable for propagation, all except such as are needed to renew
the bush should be cut out as early as possible, before they have injured the forming crop.
In England, great attention is paid to summer pruning, and here much might be accomplished
by it if we had, or would take, the time.

CHAPTER XXVI

CURRANTS, CONTINUED--PROPAGATION, VARIETIES

Pruning naturally leads to the subject of propagation, for much of that which is cut away,
so far from being useless, is often of great value to the nurseryman; and there are few who
grow this fruit for market who could not turn many an honest penny if they would take the refuse
young wood of the previous summer's growth and develop it into salable bushes. In most instances
a market would be found in their own neighborhood. Nothing is easier than success in raising
young currant bushes, except failure. If cuttings are treated in accordance with their demand
for moisture and coolness, they grow with almost certainty; if subjected to heat and drought,
they usually soon become dry sticks. The very best course is to make and plant our cuttings
in September or very early in October--just as soon as the leaves fall or will rub off readily.
As is true of a root-slip, so also the wood cutting must make a callus at its base before there
can be growth. From this the roots start out. Therefore, the earlier in the fall that cuttings
are made, the more time for the formation of this callus. Often, autumn-planted cuttings are
well rooted before winter, and have just that much start over those that must begin life in
the spring. Six inches is the average length. See Figures A, B and C. Let the cuttings be sunk
in deep, rich, moist, but thoroughly well-drained soil, so deeply as to leave but two or three
buds above the ground. In the garden, where the design is to raise a few fine bushes for home
use merely, let the rows be two feet apart and the cuttings six inches apart in the row. In
raising them by the thousand for market, we must economize space and labor; and therefore one
of the best methods, after rendering the ground mellow and smooth, is to stretch a line across
the plat or field; then, beginning on one side of the line, to strike a spade into the soil
its full depth, press it forward and draw it out. This leaves a slight opening, of the width
and depth of the spade, and a boy following inserts in this three cuttings, one in the middle
and one at each end. The man then steps back and drives the spade down again about four inches
in  the rear of the first opening, and, as he presses his spade forward to make a second, he
closes up the first opening, pressing--indeed, almost pinching--the earth around the three
slips that have just been thrust down, until but one or two buds are above the surface. We
thus have a row of cuttings, three abreast, and about three inches apart, across the entire
field. A space of three feet is left for cultivation, and then we plant, as before, another
triple row. These thick rows should be taken up the following fall, when the largest may be
sold; or planted where they are to fruit, and the smaller ones replanted in nursery rows. When
land is abundant the cuttings may be sunk in single rows, with sufficient space between for
horse cultivation, and allowed to mature into two-year-old plants without removal. If these
are not planted or sold, they should be cut back rigorously before making the third year's growth.

In moist land, cuttings can be made to grow even if set out late in the spring, especially
if top-dressed and mulched; but if they are to be started on high, dry land, they should be
out sufficiently early in the autumn to become rooted before winter. If our land is of a nature
that tends to throw roots out of the ground--and moist, heavy land has this tendency--it may
be best to bury the cuttings in bundles, tied up with fine wire, on a dry knoll, below the
action of the frost, and set them out early--as early as possible--in the spring. At any season
the rows of cuttings should be well top-dressed with fine manure, and if planted in autumn,
they should be so well covered with straw, leaves, or some litter, as not to suffer or be thrown
out in freezing and thawing weather. I manage to get half my cuttings out in the fall, and
half in early spring.

In the greenhouse, and even out-of-doors, under very favorable circumstances, plants may be
grown from single buds; and green wood also propagates readily under glass. A vigorous young
plant, with roots attached, may often be obtained by breaking off the suckers that start beneath
the surface around the stems; and, by layering or bending bushes over and throwing dirt upon
them, new plants are readily made also; but more shapely, and usually more vigorous, bushes
are obtained by simple cuttings, as I have described.

When it is designed to grow a cutting in a tree form, all the buds but two or three at the
top should be carefully removed.

If we wish to try our fortune in raising new varieties, we must sow seeds of the very best
specimens we can find, gathered when perfectly ripe. These seeds should never be kept where
it is hot or very dry, and should be soaked for a day or two in tepid water before planting.
Sow early in spring, quarter of an inch deep, in fine rich soil, which must continually be
kept moist, but never wet. Top-dressings of very fine, light manure would keep the surface
from baking, thus giving the seeds a chance to germinate. Tolerate no weeds. Remove the seedlings
in the fall to rows three feet apart, and the plants two feet distant in the row. There they
may stand until their comparative value can be determined.

VARIETIES

Black currants form quite a distinct class in appearance and flavor, and are not as popular
with us as in England. They are stronger and coarser-growing plants than the red and white
species, and do not require as high culture. They can be grown to advantage in tree form, as
they are quite exempt from insect enemies. The tent caterpillar is the only one that I have
seen injuring them. They also require much less pruning, since the best fruit is borne on the
young wood of the previous year's growth. If they are grown as bushes, they need more room--six
feet apart each way--and the knife need be used only to secure good form and space for air
and light. Two native species-- Ribes floridum and Ribes aureum--are cultivated to some extent
(for description see "Gray's Botany"). Although these species and their varieties are of little
value, Mr. Fuller thinks that they might become the parents of far better kinds than we now
have, since they are strong growers, and their fruit is naturally of better flavor than that
of the European black currant. Ribes aureum is largely cultivated as an ornamental shrub, and
its spicy-scented, bright yellow flowers of early spring are among my pleasantest memories.
As has already been explained, we can make miniature trees of our white and red currants, by
grafting them on its strong, erect-growing stems. Ribes nigrum is the European species, and
is found wild throughout the northern part of the Eastern Hemisphere. Mr. Fuller writes that
the inhabitants of Siberia make a beverage from its dried leaves which is said closely to resemble
green tea. Black Naples is the finest variety of this species. Charles Downing says of it:
"Its berries often measure nearly three-quarters of an inch in diameter. Its leaves and blossoms
appear earlier than those of the common, or English Black, but the fruit is later, and the
clusters as well as the berries are larger and more numerous." Lee's Prolific is said by some
to be a slight improvement on the above; by others it is thought to be very similar.

Of red currants, the old Red Dutch is the most prominent. It is the currant of memory. From
it was made the wine which our mothers and grandmothers felt that they could offer with perfect
propriety to the minister. There are rural homes to-day in which the impression still lingers
that it is a kind of temperance drink. From it is usually made the currant jelly without which
no lady would think of keeping house in the country. One of the gravest questions in domestic
economy is whether the jelly will "jell." Often it does not, and cannot be made to. The cause
of its lamentable perversity is this: The currants have been left until over-ripe before picking,
or they have been picked wet, just after rain. Gather them when dry, and as soon as possible
after they have turned red, and I am informed by the highest domestic authority (my wife) that
there will be no difficulty.

In flavor, the Red Dutch is unequalled by any other red currant. It is also a variety that
can scarcely be killed by abuse and neglect, and it responds so generously to high culture
and rigorous pruning that it is an open question whether it cannot be made, after all, the
most profitable for market, since it is so much more productive than the larger varieties,
and can be made to approach them so nearly in size. Indeed, not a few are annually sold for
Cherry currants.

The White Dutch is similar to the Red in the growth and character of the bush. The clusters,
however, are a little shorter, and the fruit a little larger and sweeter, and is of a fine
yellowish-white color, with a veined, translucent skin.

The White Grape is an advance in size upon the last-named, and of marvellous productiveness
and beauty. It is not as vigorous as the White Dutch, and is more spreading in its mode of
growth, requiring careful pruning to make a shapely bush. The fruit, also, is not spread so
evenly over the wood, but is produced more in bunches. In flavor, it is one of the very best.

Dana's Transparent, and other white varieties, do not vary materially from either the White
Grape or Dutch.

The great market currant is the Cherry. In the "Canadian Horticulturist" for September, 1878,
I find the following:

"The history of this handsome currant is not without interest. Monsieur Adrienne Seneclause,
a distinguished horticulturist in France, received it from Italy among a lot of other currants.
He noticed the extraordinary size of the fruit, and gave it, in consequence, the name it yet
bears. In the year 1843 it was fruited in the nursery of the Museum of Natural History, and
figured from these samples in the 'Annales de Flore et de Pomone' for February, 1848. Dr. William
W. Valk, of Flushing, Long Island, N. Y., introduced it to the notice of American fruit growers
in 1846, having imported some of the plants in the spring of that year."

This variety is now very widely disseminated, and its culture is apparently becoming increasingly
profitable every year. Two essentials are requisite to success with it--high manuring and skilful
pruning. It has the tendency to produce long branches, on which there are but few buds. Rigorous
cutting back, so as to cause branching joints and fruit spurs, should be practiced annually.
The foliage is strong and coarse, and the fruit much more acid than the Dutch family; but size
and beauty carry the market, and the Cherry can be made, by high culture, very large and beautiful.

Versailles, or La Versaillaise, is a figurative bone of contention. The horticultural doctors
disagree so decidedly that the rest of us can, without presumption, think for ourselves. Mr.
A. S. Fuller has probably given the subject more attention than any one else, and he asserts,
without any hesitancy, that this so-called variety is identical with the Cherry. Mr. Fuller
is certainly entitled to his opinion, for he obtained plants of the Cherry and Versailles from
all the leading nurserymen in America, and imported them from the standard nurseries abroad,
not only once, but repeatedly, yet could never get two distinct varieties. The writer in the
"Canadian Horticulturist" also states in regard to the Versailles:

"Some pains were taken to obtain this variety on different occasions, and from the most reliable
sources, so that there might be no mistake as to the correctness of the name; but after many
years of trial we are unable to perceive any decided variation, either in the quality of the
fruit, the length of the bunch, or the habit of the plant, from the Cherry currant."

I must admit that I am inclined to take the same view; for, during several years, I have looked
in vain for two distinct varieties. I have carefully kept the two kinds separate, but find
in each case the same stout, stocky, short-jointed, erect shoots that are often devoid of buds,
and tend to become naked with age, and the same dark green, thick, bluntly and coarsely serrated
foliage. Mr. Downing thinks the difference lies in the fact that, while the Versailles strain
produces many short bunches like the Cherry, it also frequently bears clusters, and that such
long, tapering clusters are never formed on the Cherry. This is the only difference, I think,
if any exists; but in no instance have I been able to find this distinction well defined and
sustained by the bearing plantations that I have seen. Mr. Downing, however, has had tenfold
more experience than I have, and his opinions are entitled to corresponding weight.

That this class is much inclined to "sport," I think all will admit. One bush in a row may
be loaded with fruit year after year, and the next one be comparatively barren. The clusters
on one bush may be short and characteristic of the Cherry, while a neighboring bush in the
same patch may show a tendency to mingle some long clusters with the short ones; and young
bushes grown from the same plant will show these variations. I am satisfied that distinct and
much improved strains could be developed by propagating from bushes producing the best and
most abundant fruit, and that a variety having the characteristics of the Ideal Versailles
could be developed. The importance of this careful selection in propagation can scarcely be
overestimated, and the fruit grower who followed it up for a few years might almost double
the productiveness and quality of many of his varieties.

Victoria (known also as May's Victoria, and having a half-dozen other synonymes) is a distinct
variety, whose great value consists in its lengthening out the currant season two or three
weeks after the above- named kinds have matured. The fruit is also large--between the Red Dutch
and Cherry in size--exceedingly abundant, and although rather acid, of good flavor when fully
ripe. The clusters are very long-- from five to seven inches--tapering, and the berries are
bright red. If it is grown in some moist, cool, half-shady location, the bunches will hang
on the bushes very late in the season. In many localities it is found very profitable, since
it need not be sold until the others are out of the market. The young branches are rather slender,
but the plant itself is vigorous, and can be grown at less expense than the Cherry.

There are many other named varieties, but in the majority of instances the distinctions between
them are slight, and as they are waning before the finer varieties that I have described, I
shall not attempt to lighten the shadows that are gathering around them. The future promises
more than the past, and I think that, before many years pass, some fine new kinds will be introduced.

The enemies and diseases of the currant will be treated in a later chapter.

CHAPTER XXVII

GOOSEBERRIES

I have treated the currant very fully, not only because it is the more popular fruit in this
country, but also because the greater part of my suggestions under that heading applies equally
to this branch of the Ribes tribe. Possessing the same general characteristics, it should be
treated on the same principles that were seen to be applicable to the currant. It flourishes
best in the same cool exposures, and is the better for partial shade. Even in the south of
England the more tender-skinned varieties often scald in the sun. However, I would recommend
the shade of a fence or a northern hillside, rather than overhanging branches of trees. A rich
soil, especially one that is deep and moist but not wet, is equally requisite, and the rigorous
annual pruning is even more essential. As the wood becomes old and black, it should be cut
out altogether. Fruit buds and spurs are produced on wood two or more years old, and cutting
back causes these, but they must not be allowed to become too crowded. To no fruit are air
and light more essential.

We have in this country two very distinct classes of gooseberries-the first of foreign origin,
and the second consisting of our native species. Gray thus describes Ribes Grossularia, garden
or English gooseberry: "Cultivated from Europe for the well-known fruit; thorny and prickly,
with small, obtuse, three to five lobed leaves, green flowers, one to three on short pedicels,
bell-shaped calyx, and large berry."

This native of northern Europe and the forests of the British Islands has been developed into
the superb varieties which have been famous so long in England, but which we are able to grow
with very partial success. It remembers its birthplace even more strongly than the currant,
and the almost invariable mildew of our gardens is the sign of its homesickness. The cool,
moist climate of England just suits it, and it is the pride of the gardens of Lancashire to
surpass the world in the development of large specimens. Mr. Downing writes:

"We are indebted to the Lancashire weavers, who seem to have taken it up as a hobby, for nearly
all the surprisingly large sorts of modern date. Their annual shows exhibit this fruit in its
greatest perfection, and a gooseberry book is published in Manchester every year, giving a
list of all the prize sorts, etc."

The extraordinary pains taken is suggested by the following quotation from the "Encyclopaedia
of Gardening":

"To effect this increased size, every stimulant is applied that their ingenuity can suggest.
They not only annually manure the soil richly, but also surround the plants with trenches of
manure for the extremities of the roots to strike into, and form round the stem of each plant
a basin, to be mulched, or manured, or watered, as may become necessary. When a root has extended
too far from the stem, it is uncovered, and all the strongest leaders are shortened back nearly
one-half of their length, and covered with fresh, marly loam, well manured. The effect of this
pruning is to increase the number of fibres and spongioles, which form rapidly on the shortened
roots, and strike out in all directions among the fresh, newly stirred loam, in search of nutriment."

This is carrying culture to an extreme rarely, if ever, seen in America. The annual referred
to above recorded one hundred and fifty- five gooseberry exhibitions in 1863.

The number of varieties is almost endless, and more than seven hundred prize sorts are named
in Lindley's "Guide to the Orchard"; but not one of them, I fear, can be grown in this country,
except under favorable conditions and with extra care. Even after supplying such conditions,
they will often mildew in spite of our best efforts. Again, in some localities, and for obscure
causes, they will thrive and continue for years quite free from this chief enemy of the foreign
gooseberry. Repeated applications of the flowers of sulphur over the bushes, from the time
the fruit sets until it is ripe, are probably the best preventive. Thorough mulching, rigorous
pruning, and high culture are also to be recommended. Those who garden for pleasure would do
well to try some of these fine foreigners.

The following are some that Mr. Downing and others have recommended:

I. Red Varieties: British Crown, Top Sawyer, Roaring Lion, Lancashire Lad, Crown Bob.

II. White: Cheshire Lass, White Lion, Whitesmith, White Honey.

III. Green: Laurel, Heart of Oak, Jolly Angler, Jolly Tar.

IV. Yellow: Golden Fleece, Bunker Hill, Conqueror, etc.

