 Had we landed earlier, even near one of these towns, we might have
alarmed the inhabitants, and been taken for a party of robbers; or, as they are called in the
country, jacallees. They would have taken up arms against us, and we might have lost our lives;
so that for our safety we continued down the river, although we had great desire to go on shore.
In the course of the day and night, we travelled, according to our estimation, a distance little
short of a hundred miles. Our course was nearly east. The Niger in many places, and for a considerable
way, presented a very magnificent appearance, and, we believe, to be nearly eight miles in
width.--Lit. Gaz.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

Ancient Trade.--Alexandria was formerly the chief commercial city in the world. We may judge
of its wealth and prosperity by the circumstance, that, after the defeat of Queen Zenobia,
a single merchant of this city, undertook to raise and pay an army out of the profits of his
trade. Delos was the richest city in the Archipelago, it was a free port, where nations warring
with each other, resorted with their goods, and traded. Strabo calls it one of the most frequented
emporiums in the world; and Pliny tells us, that all the commodities of Europe and Asia were
sold, purchased, or exchanged there. Trade was much encouraged at Athens; and if any one ridiculed
it, he was liable to an action of slander. A fine of a thousand drachmas (about £37. 10s.)
was inflicted on him who accused a merchant of any crime which he was unable to prove. Solon
was engaged in merchandize; the founder of the city of Messilia was a merchant; Thales and
Hippocrates, the mathematician, traded; Plato sold oil in Egypt; Maximinus the Roman emperor,
traded with the Goths in the produce of his estate in Thracia; Vespasian farmed the privies
at Rome; and the Emperor Pertinax, originally dealt in charcoal.

P.T.W.

Unnecessary fears about the Cholera.--Nothing is more calculated to allay unnecessay and groundless
fear, in the case of the cholera, than the undeniable fact of the smallness of the mortality
in proportion to the whole population, where it has raged with most violence. In addition to
which, if it be borne in mind, that the disease invariably attacks those who are most predisposed
to engender any malady, it is not unreasonable to infer, that of those to whom it has proved
mortal, many would have died within the same period, had cholera not attacked them.--Morning
Herald.

King Regner died singing the pleasure of falling in battle: his words are, "The hours of my
life are passed away, I shall die laughing."--Britain's Historical Drama.

              On a very Fat Man.

  All flesh is grass, so do the Scriptures say,
  And grass, when mown, is shortly turn'd to hay.
  When Time, to mow you down, his scythe doth take,
  Good Man! how large a stack you then will make.
                                           J.J.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MIRROR. I. to XVIII in boards, price £4. 18s. 6d.; half-bound, £6. 6s.

       *       *       *       *       *