In former times, an idea of peculiar sanctity was annexed to crosses. They not only marked
civil and ecclesiastical limits, but probably served for stations, when the bounds were visited
in processions. It was a common practice for mendicants to place themselves near some of these
crosses, and ask alms; whence the ancient proverb, "He begs like a cripple at a cross." Cornwall
abounds with stone crosses. In churchyards, by the side of roads, and on the open downs, they
remain solitary and neglected. In almost every town that had an abbey, or any other religious
foundation, there was one of these structures. The monks frequently harangued the populace
from these crosses. Many of them still remain, exhibiting beautiful specimens of architecture
and sculpture. The most memorable and interesting objects of this kind were those which King
Edward I. erected at the different stages where the corpse of Queen Eleanor rested, in its
progress from Nottinghamshire to London. Mr. Gough tells us, that there were originally fifteen
of these elegant structures; but only three are now remaining, which, by their peculiar beauty,
as specimens of architecture and productions of art, serve to excite regret at the destruction
of the others. The first of the three above-mentioned, is the cross at Geddington, about three
miles from Kettering, in Northamptonshire. The second is the Queen's Cross, near Northampton.
The third is the cross at Waltham, in Hertfordshire. For a further account of these crosses,
see Mr. Britton's "Architectural Antiquities of Great Britain."

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO R.H., ON HER DEPARTURE FOR LONDON.

(For the Mirror.)

  "Alas for me! false hearts I've found, where I had deem'd them true,
  And stricken hopes lie all around where'er I turn my view;
  Yet it may be, when far remov'd, the voice of memory
  May yet remind thee how we lov'd, with its reproving sigh."

  ANONYMOUS.

  Farewell! farewell! a sad farewell!
    'Tis fate's decree that we should part;
  Forebodings strange my bosom tell,
    That others now will pain thy heart:
  If so, calm as the waveless deep,
    Whereby the passing gust has blown,
  Unmark'd, the eye will turn to weep
    O'er days that have so swiftly flown,
  Remember me--remember me,
  My latest thought will be for thee.

  The tale which to thee I've confest
    Another ne'er shall hear again;
  Nor love, that link'd me with the blest,
    Be darken'd with an earthly chain.
  No, as the scroll above the dead,
    The dreams of parted joys will last;
  There is a bliss now love has fled,
    To trace this record of the past.
  Then, oh! mid all remember me--
  My latest thought will be for thee.

  Life hath been as a cloudy day,
    Yet still it hath not all been gloom,
  For many a wild and broken ray
    Hath cheer'd awhile my spirit's doom;
  As flow'rets on a river's rim,
    Whose shadows deck each passing wave,
  Thought lingers on, perturb'd and dim,
    Or sunbeam resting on a grave.
  Remember me--remember me--
  My latest thought will be for thee.

  Where'er my feet may wander now,
    No more awakes the slightest care;
  It matters not--for still wilt thou
    Be present 'mid my heart's despair.
  So springs and blooms, in lonely state,
    Some flow'ret on a roofless cot,
  And decks with smiles, though desolate,
    The gloomy stillness of the spot.
  Remember me--remember me--
  My latest thought will be for thee.

  Though calm the eye, and still the tongue,
    It needs not that the cheek be pale
  To prove the heart by feelings wrung,
    And brooding o'er a hopeless tale;
  For calm is oft the ocean's breast,
    Though 'neath its deep blue waters lie
  A thousand wrecks--so sorrows rest
    In still and silent misery.
  Remember me--remember me--
  My latest thought will be for thee.

H.P.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COURSE OF LOVE.

(For the Mirror.)

  Go, trace the forest maze,
    Or Cretan lab'rinth solve,
  On Nature's myst'ries gaze,
    Or Gordian knot resolve.

  Tell whence the magnet's force,
    The central motive scan,
  Lay bare Nile's hidden source,
    Earth's vast circumference span.

  Results from such detail
    Skill superhuman prove:
  Yet powers like these would fail
    To tell the course of love.

  Direct the impulse fierce
    Of ocean's watery sway;
  When wint'ry tempests pierce,
    Bind Boreas to obey.

  Go, mould the fleeting cloud,
    The lucid dew-drop mix,
  The solar radiance shroud,
    The trembling moonbeam fix.

  Then bid the wand'ring star
    Within the zodiac move;
  'Twere task more hard by far
    To guide the course of love.

  Stop the meridian flight
    Of Jove's proud plumy race;
  Arrest the fiercest fight
    When foe-men battle face.

  Forbid the earth to turn.
    Forbid the tides to flow,
  Forbid the sun to burn,
    Forbid the winds to blow.

  Bid the fix'd orb of day.
    Beyond his sphere to move,
  Or cease th' attempt, I pray,
    To stop the course of love.

T.F.

       *       *       *       *       *

I'LL BE AT YOUR BALL

(For the Mirror.)

    Ah! ce n'est pas moi qui romprait la première l'union sacrée de nos
    coeurs; vous le savez bien que ce n'est pas moi, et je rougirais
    presque, d'assurer ce qui n'est que trop certain.--Corinne, par
    MADAME DE STAEL.

  I'll be at your ball--dear Eliza,
    Could you doubt of my wish to be there,
  When ask'd by the maiden I prize a-
    Bove all maidens, though e'er so fair?
  Busy fancy brings back in my dreams
    The walks, still enchanting, we took,
  When the zephyrs scarce ruffled the streams,
    No sound heard, save the murm'ring brook;
  The stars we together have watched--
    What pleasure these thoughts do recall!
  Believe that your truly attached,
    Dear Eliza, will be at your ball.

  Can study those feelings estrange,
    Of affection so ardent and true?
  Or absence or time ever change
    A heart so devoted to you?
  My voice may have altered its tone,
    My brow may be furrow'd by care,
  But, oh, dearest girl, there are none
    Possess of my heart the least share.
  You say that my hair is neglected,
    That my dress don't become me at all;
  Can you feel surprised I'm dejected,
    Since I parted from you at your ball?

  I listlessly turn o'er the pages.
    So fraught with amusement before
  Tasso, Dante, and even the sages,
    Once pleasing, are pleasing no more.
  When I walk on the banks of the Mole,
    Or recline 'neath our favourite tree,
  As the needle is true to the pole,
    So my thoughts still concentre in thee.
  Old Time moves so slow, he appears,
    "With age quite decrepit," to crawl;
  And days seem now lengthen'd to years,
    Before we shall meet--at your ball.

DAFT JAMIE.

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

       *       *       *       *       *

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

    Having occasionally (during my lucubrations) marked out sundry
    choice excerpts, quips, and quiddities, from a variety of authors, I
    shall, with your permission, submit to the reader an occasional
    chapter, with a few original remarks, &c., which I hope will prove
    agreeable.

    JACOBUS.

POSTURE MASTERS.

It is now a-days extremely common to style the tumble-down-dick exploits or posture masters,
balancers, conjurers, &c. an art. To ridicule such an abuse of the term by applying it to mere
adroitness, skill in trifles, and labour-in-vain performances, Quinctilian gives us this merry
instance--"Qualis illius fuit, qui grana ciceris ex spatio distante missa, in acum continue,
et sine frustratione inserebat; quem cum spectasset Alexander, donasse eum dicitur leguminis
modio--quod quidem praemium fuit illo opere dignissimum." Translation--Of this kind of art,
was his, who, standing at a certain distance, could continually, without missing, stick a small
pea upon the point of a needle; which when Alexander had witnessed, he ordered him a bushel
of that grain for his trouble, a reward quite adequate to such an exploit. We have a similar
story related, I think, of Charles II.: a posture master climbed up Grantham steeple, and then
stood on his head upon the weathercock. The facetious monarch, after witnessing his ascent,
told him he might forthwith have a patent that none should do the like but himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO MAKE BUBBLE AND SQUEAK.

Published by request of the gentlemen of both Universities.

First--Take of beef, or mutton, or lamb, or veal, or any other meat, two pounds and a half,
or any other quantity; be sure to keep it in salt till the saline particles have locked up
all the animal juices, and rendered the fibres hard of digestion; then boil it over a turf
or peat fire, in a brass kettle, covered with a copper lid, until it is over much done.

Second--Take a large turned cabbage, and boil it in a bell metal pot until it is done enough,
or (if you think proper) too much.

Thirdly--Slice the meat, and souse that and the cabbage both in a frying pan together, and
let them bubble and squeak over a charcoal fire for half an hour, three minutes, and two seconds.

Lastly--Devour the whole, which will not weigh more than four pounds, for a quantum sufficit;
drink six pints of good, fat ale; sit, smoke, sleep, snore, and forget your book.

       *       *       *       *       *

ADVERTISEMENT.

In defence of the two Universities.

We can assure the public that the malicious report of the Greek language being expelled from
the abovenamed seats of Minerva, is entirely without foundation; there being, at this moment,
many thousand volumes written in that tongue, actually extant, and quite unmolested in the
several libraries.

       *       *       *       *       *

HONEST PREJUDICES,

Or bona fide extracts from celebrated authors.

Before the conquest of this country by the Normans, the land in Norfolk was so light and fine,
that the farmers usually plowed with two rabbits and a case knife!--Jones's Wonderful Changes,
p. 86.--Weep at this ye who are now racking your inventive powers for improvements in agricultural
implements. See what your forefathers could accomplish by means the simplest.--Risum teneatis?

       *       *       *       *       *

There are many stories told of the craft of the fox to compass his prey, of which Ol. Magnus
hath many: such as feigning the bark of a dog to catch prey near the houses; feigning himself
dead to catch such animals as come to feed upon him; laying his tail upon a wasp's nest and
then rubbing it hard against a tree, thus catching the wasps so killed; ridding himself of
fleas by gradually going into the water with a lock of wool in his mouth, and so driving the
fleas up into it and then leaving it in the water; by catching crab fish with his tail, which
he saith he himself was a witness of.--Derham's Physico-Theology, book iv. chap. 11., and Ol.
Mag. Hist. lib. xviii. cap. 39, 40.--Peruse this ye incredulous lectors of Baron Munch-Hausen,
and Colonel Nimrod. Talk no more of the fertile genius of our Yankee brethren, but candidly
admit ye are blameworthy for withholding credence to matters which rather border on the marvellous.

       *       *       *       *       *

Had man been a dwarf he could not have been a rational creature; for he must then have had
a jolt head, so there would not have been body and blood enough to supply his brain with spirits,
or he must have had a small head answerable to his body, and so there would not have been brain
enough for his business.--Grew's Cosmol. Sacr. book i. chap. v.

Had the calf of the leg been providentially and prominently placed before, instead of being
preposterously and prejudicially placed behind, it had been evidently better; forasmuch as
the human shin-bone could not then have been so easily broken,--Dr. Moreton's Beauty of the
Human Structure, page 62.--What a pity it is that these two learned and self-sufficient authors,
were not consulted in the formation of their own persons: doubtless they could have suggested
many improvements, and would have felt all the advantages with due effect--probably they might
have liked their heads to screw on and off like Saint Denis, of France, who frequently carried
his under his arm.

       *       *       *       *       *

The City of London is the largest city in the world, and the people of London the wisest--Wilson's
Candid Traveller, page 42.--Mark this, ye who are levelling your leaden wit at the worthy aldermen
and cits of this "large" and "wise" metropolis.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the famous battle of Crescy, gained by Edward III., notwithstanding a vast carnage of the
French, and an infinite number of prisoners, the English lost only one 'squire, three knights,
and a few of inferior rank.--History of England, by Goldsmith.

At the battle of Agincourt, gained by Henry V. the French lost ten thousand men, and fourteen
thousand prisoners; the English (although enfeebled by disease, destitute of provisions, and
harassed by fatigue) lost only forty men in all--Ibid.--Hear these facts of ancient prowess,
ye heroes of modern times; who among ye ever gained such signal advantages with losses so insignificant?--In
good truth, I must admit, that even I was once inclined to cry out with Mr. Burchell, "fudge;"
but the following morceaux have explained to me the (otherwise) mysterious relation:--

One Englishman can beat five Frenchmen.--Williamson's Serious Propositions, page 78.--One English
man-of-war, will beat a Dutch fleet--Nebolt's Naval Expeditions, chap. iv. section 9.--Indeed!
what a scandalous shame it is then to call Admiral Blake a naval hero; surely he could have
been but a mere botch to make such a tough job of cutting up Van Tromp, the Dutch commander.

       *       *       *       *       *

Though I have examined what all other authors have written on this affair with great impartiality,
yet I cannot conceive that any of them have the least merit; nor do I find one man that has
treated this subject sensibly, besides myself.--Smithson's Amiableness of Candour and Diffidence,
page 8.--What modesty! what candour! amiable critic! doubtless your ingenuous style has obtained
you a place on the shelves of the literati; and like Ovid and Horace you have secured as well
as assigned yourself an immortality.

       *       *       *       *       *

SELECT BIOGRAPHY.

       *       *       *       *       *

MEMOIR OF BOLIVAR.

The conspicuous part which Bolivar has acted throughout the revolution in Colombia, and at
the close of that in Peru, renders it imperative on us to give some account of a character,
identified with so many great and extraordinary events.

Simon Bolivar was born at Caracas on the 25th of July, 1783. He lost his parents at an early
age; and, in his sixteenth year, was sent to Europe to finish his education. He made the tour
of France and Italy. Having married at Madrid, he embarked for Venezuela, where his wife died
a few months after her arrival. Bolivar went a second time to Europe, and was present at the
coronation of Napoleon. He returned to Caracas in company with Emparan, appointed captain-general
of Venezuela by the central junta at Seville. Soon after the raising of the standard of independence
(19th April, 1810) in that country, he was sent to solicit the protection of Great Britain.
He was well received by the Marquess Wellesley, then secretary for Foreign Affairs. The British
government offered its mediation between Spain and her colonies, but the offer was rejected
by the court of Madrid. Bolivar returned to his own country, accompanied by General Miranda,
who was placed in command of the Venezuelan troops. But the revolutionary government was too
feebly organized to give efficiency to the military force. Divisions arose, and the cause of
independence was on the retrograde, when the dreadful earthquake of 1812, and the subsequent
invasion by the Spanish force under General Monteverde, for the time, precluded all possibility
of success.

Bolivar, alleging that Miranda had betrayed his country by capitulating to Monteverde, arrested
him at La Guayra. Bolivar then demanded his passport, and when taken before Monteverde, the
Spanish general said that Colonel Bolivar's request should be complied with, as a reward for
his having served the king of Spain by delivering up Miranda. Bolivar answered that he arrested
him to punish a traitor[2] to his country, and not to serve the king. This answer had nearly
included him in the general proscription; but the good offices of Don Francisco Iturbe, secretary
to Monteverde, procured the passport, and Bolivar was allowed to sail for Curaçoa. From that
island he went to Carthagena, where he obtained the command of a small force, with which he
proceeded up the Magdalena, and having beaten parties of the royalist troops at various points
on that river, he continued his march from Ocana to Cucutá, and solicited assistance from the
government of Cundinamarca. Five hundred men were placed at his disposal, and with these, added
to his own small party, Bolivar undertook to effect the liberation of his country. Four thousand
Spaniards, under General Correa, were then on that part of the Venezuelan frontier. A division
of these was beaten by Bolivar, who pursued his march to Truxillo, defeating on the way several
royalist detachments.

   [2] Bolivar seems to have been hurried into a dreadful error by the
       warmth of his feelings. Not only is the expediency of the
       capitulation admitted by eye witnesses of the first
       respectability, but also that Miranda had no other alternative.
       The rich and influential inhabitants withheld their support, not
       that their political sentiments had undergone a change but
       because they saw the useless of sacrificing property and life in
       a wild attempt to stem the stream of public opinion; the bulk of
       the people having become decidedly royalist in principle ever
       since that earthquake, which had been represented by the
       priesthood as a judgement of Heaven upon the insurgent cause.

The Spaniards from the commencement of the war, had put to death all persons whom they found
with arms in their hands. The South Americans, on the contrary, gave quarter to those royalists
who fell into their power. The natives consequently preferred entering the royalist ranks,
feeling secure that, in case of being made prisoners, their lives would be spared. Bolivar,
perceiving the great disadvantage under which he laboured, and as a retaliation for the horrid
butcheries committed by the Spaniards, issued a proclamation at Truxillo, declaring, that from
that time forward he should wage a war of extermination. This declaration of guerra à muerte
on the part of the independents made the danger, in that respect, equal on both sides.

Bolivar, having separated his small corps into two divisions, entrusted the command of the
second to the active General Rivas. Bolivar himself penetrated the Llanos, after having beaten
the Spaniards at Niquitao, Carache, Varinas, Tahuana, and Torcones. He then advanced to Vitoria,
within twenty leagues of Caracas, where he was met by Spanish commissioners, who sued for,
and obtained, a capitulation. The conqueror entered his native city in triumph. But this did
not put an end to the war. The Spaniards were faithless in the observance of the capitulation,
and Monteverde, from within the walls of Puerto Cabello, fomented the discord which prevailed
in the interior provinces. About this time a strong reinforcement arrived from Spain. Bolivar
was obliged to evacuate Caracas; but the royalists were beaten at Viguirima, Barbula, and Las
Trincheras. However, the Spanish general Cevallos had time to raise four thousand recruits
in the province of Coro, which had always shown itself inimical to the cause of independence.
Bolivar next gained the important battle of Araure, and repossessed himself of Caracas. On
the 2nd of January, 1814, he assembled the public authorities of the city, and resigned to
them the supreme authority he had exercised, and with which his triumphs had invested him.
They, however, refused to admit his resignation; conferred upon him the title of LIBERATOR
OF VENEZUELA; and named him dictator.

About this period a Spaniard, Don José Tomas Boves, succeeded in bringing about a counter-revolution
in the Llanos, an immense tract of level country, which traverses the centre of Venezuela,
and extends to the confines of New Granada. Boves organized a force, which consisted of men
mostly chosen for their desperate character, whom he led on by promises of indiscriminate plunder,
and by lavishing the greatest rewards upon the perpetrators of the most revolting atrocities.
The track of these ruffians, to Calabozo, was every where marked with the blood of the aged
and the defenceless. Bolivar, who had detached a part of his force in pursuit of Cevallos,
had not above two thousand men left to make head against Boves, who, with nearly five times
that number, had possessed himself of the fertile valleys of Aragua, and destroyed some patriot
divisions sent to check his progress. Bolivar took up a position at San Mateo, in order to
cover Caracas. A series of attacks, in the space of forty days, reduced the number of Bolivar's
force to four hundred. Cevallos had repaired the effects of his defeat at Araure, and, reinforced
by General Cagigal, had penetrated to Valencia. The patriot division of the east having defeated
Boves at Bocachica, and compelled him to retire to the Llanos, and having subsequently united
with the remains of Bolivar's force, marched against Cagigal and Cevallos, whose well-organized
troops amounted to six thousand. These were attacked and defeated by Bolivar, who then detached
the greater part of his force to reduce the province of Coro to submission, and himself marched
against Boves. Bolivar was overwhelmed by numbers at La Puerta. His division dispersed, and
fled to Cundinamarca. He was then obliged to abandon Caracas. The same day witnessed the affecting
spectacle of several thousand inhabitants leaving their homes and property at the mercy of
the ruthless spoiler, while they themselves set out to face want, disease, and death, in distant
provinces.

On the 17th of August, Bolivar lost the battle of Aragua. The subsequent affairs of Maturin,
Cumaná, Carupano, Guiria, Urica, and El Caris, were fought, with varying success. All being
lost in the east, Bolivar next proceeded to Carthagena, and offered his services to New Granada,
then agitated by discordant parties of provincialists, centralists, metropolists, federalists,
royalists, and independents. A congress assembled at Tunja conferred upon Bolivar the command
of the forces of New Granada. Santa Fé de Bogotá submitted, the provinces acknowledged the
congress, and an effort was made to establish a constitutional form of government.

Bolivar having proposed to take the town of Santa Marta, still held by the Spaniards, he was
authorized by the government of Santa Fé to procure guns, &c., from the arsenals of Carthagena.
The governor of that fortress refused to furnish the necessary supplies. In order to enforce
compliance, Bolivar invested Carthagena, before which he remained a considerable time, when
he heard of the arrival at Margarita of General Morillo, with ten thousand Spanish troops.
Upon this, Bolivar placed his own investing force at the disposal of his rival, the governor
of Carthagena; and, unwilling that the cause of his country should continue to suffer from
the dissention which had arisen between himself and the governor, withdrew to Jamaica. Morillo,
soon afterwards, laid siege to Carthagena, which, unfortunately, in consequence of the long
investment it had already sustained, was nearly destitute of provisions, Bolivar sent from
Jamaica some supplies for the besieged garrison; but before they could arrive, that important
fortress was in possession of the Spaniards. This enabled them to reconquer New Granada, and
the blood of its citizens was made to stream from the scaffold.

At Kingston, Bolivar narrowly escaped assassination. The casual circumstance of exchanging
apartments with another person, caused the murderer's dagger to be planted in the heart of
a faithful follower, instead of in that of Bolivar. The author of these memoirs happened to
live, for a few days, in the same boarding-house. Some officers of a British line-of-battle
ship, not speaking Spanish, requested him to invite Bolivar, in their name, to dine with them.
This was only a few weeks previous to the intended assassination of Bolivar.

From Jamaica, Bolivar went to Hayti, and was received at Port-au-Prince by Petion with kind
hospitality, and was assisted by him as far as his means would allow.

In April, 1816, he sailed with three hundred men to Margarita, which island had lately again
shaken off the Spanish yoke. He arrived at Juan Griego, where he was proclaimed supreme chief
of the republic. On the 1st of June he sailed, and on the 3rd landed at Campano, where he beat
nine hundred Spaniards. He then opened a communication with patriot chieftains, who had maintained
themselves in isolated parties dispersed over the llanos of Cumaná, Barcelona, and the Apure.
It is a curious fact, that the isolation of several of these parties was so complete, that,
for many months, they did not know of any other than themselves being in arms for the delivery
of their country. It was only by their coming into accidental contact that they discovered
that there was more than one patriot guerilla in existence.[3] Bolivar supplied some of them
with arms, and at the same time augmented his own force to a thousand men. The Spaniards assembled
in superior numbers to destroy them; but Bolivar embarked, and relanded at Ocumare, with an
intention of taking Caracas: great part, however, of the Spanish army having by this time returned
from New Granada to Venezuela, Bolivar was obliged to re-embark for Margarita.

    [3] For the honour of the llaneros, this circumstance ought to be
        more distinctly detailed.

In 1817, he landed near Barcelona, where he collected seven hundred recruits, and marched towards
Caracas; but, being worsted in an affair at Clarines, he fell back again upon Barcelona, where
he shut himself up with four hundred men, and made a successful resistance against a superior
force.

Bolivar received some reinforcements from the interior of the province of Cumaná, upon which
he decided upon making the banks of the Orinoco the theatre of his future efforts. Having further
augmented his force, and taken the necessary steps to keep alive the war in the districts on
the coast, he marched to the interior, beating several small royalist parties which he encountered
on his route.

Of the Spanish army which had returned from New Granada, a division, under the brave General
La Torre, was destined to act against the patriots in Guayana. A division of the latter, under
General Piar, having obtained a decisive victory, Bolivar was enabled to invest Angostura,
and the town of old Guyana, which were successively taken on the 3rd and 18th of July.

In Angostura, Piar was found guilty, by a court-martial, of an attempt to excite a war of colour.
Piar (a man of colour himself) was the bravest of the brave, and adored by his followers; but
his execution stifled anarchy in the bud.

The rest of the year 1817 was actively spent in organizing a force to act against Morillo,
who had lately been reinforced by two thousand fresh troops from the Peninsula, under General
Canterac, then on his way from Spain to Peru. An abundant supply of arms, received from England,
was sent to the patriot corps on the banks of the Apure.

(To be continued.)

       *       *       *       *       *

LEDYARD TO HIS MISTRESS.

(For the Mirror.)

  Dost wish to roam in foreign climes
  Forget thy home and long past times?
  Dost wish to be a wand'rer's bride,
  And all thy thoughts in him confide?
  Thou canst not traverse mountain seas,
  Nor bear cold Lapland's freezing breeze;
  Thou canst not bear the torrid heats,
  Nor brave the toils a wand'rer meets;
  Thou wouldst faint, dearest, with fatigue
  Trav'ling the desert's sandy league.

  Pale hunger with her sickly pains
  Will silence thy heroic strains;
  Thy heart--now warmly beats--will chill
  And stop thy lover's wonted skill.
  He could not see thee pine and weep
  Nor could he ease thy troubled sleep--
  'Twould quite unman his firm resolve,
  And with grief thy love involve.

TERRENUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROMAN ALTAR.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

Enclosed I send you a drawing of a Roman votive altar, which was found in digging a cellar
about six feet deep, in St. Sepulchre's Gate, Doncaster, in the year 1781. It is the oldest
relic of antiquity which Doncaster has yet produced, and is of exquisite engraving and workmanship.
Upon the capital, or top of the stone, a small space above the sculpture of the altar itself,
is a crater or flowing bowl,[4] sacred to Bacchus, the god of wine; on the dexter, or right
side of the altar, is a flower-pot, or cornucopiæ, with five branches in it, loaded with leaves
and fruit, sacred to Ceres, or Terra-Mater, the goddess of plants; and on the sinister, or
left side thereof, is a large jug or pitcher with a large handle, also sacred to Bacchus. It
is about 2 feet 6-1/2 inches in height, and 1 foot in breadth at the base. The corporation
employed a Mr. Richard John Tetlow, of Ferrybridge, a celebrated antiquary, to interpret the
inscription, and give them his opinion on its age. They also sent it to the Antiquarian Society
in London for inspection.

    [4] If not a flowing bowl, then it is the shield of Diana.

Interpretation of the Society.

Matribus magnis,[5] Nantonius[6] Orberthol, vota solvit lubens merito.

    [5] Juno and Diana.

    [6] For Antoninus, in the year of Christ 161. Antoninus Philosophus
        was the Roman emperor, and succeeded Antoninus Pius, according to
        Dr. Littleton.

Translation.

To the great mothers, (goddesses,) Anthony Orberthol willingly and meritoriously has performed
his vows or promises.

Interpretation of Mr. Tetlow.

Lunæ, Latonæ, Lucinæ, Matribus magnis Antonius Orbis Romani Imperator Bonis Oeis Altare. vota.
solvit. lubens merito.

Translation.

To Luna, Latona, Lucina, the great good mothers, goddesses, Anthony, the emperor of the Roman
empire, hath erected, or dedicated, this altar. Freely and fully he has discharged his vows
and promises.

