"The point is, do you honestly think I helped any?"

"You did inestimable good. It only can help men to hear plain truth that is personal experience.
As for that dope of yours, it will come closer raising the dead than anything I ever saw. Next
case I see slipping, after I've done my best, I'm going to try it out for myself."

"All right! 'Phone me and I'll bring some fresh and help you."

At Buffalo the doctor left the car and bought a paper. As he had expected the portrait and
speech of the Harvester were featured. The reporters had been gracious. They had done all that
was just to a great event, and allowed themselves some latitude. He immediately mailed the
paper to the Girl, and at Cleveland bought another for himself. When he showed it to the Harvester,
as he glanced at it he observed, "Do I appear like that?" Then he went on talking with a man
he had met who interested him.

CHAPTER XXI. THE COMING OF THE BLUEBIRD

The Harvester stopped at the mail box on his way home and among the mass of matter it contained
was something from the Girl. It was a scrap as long as his least finger and three times as
wide, and by the postmark it had lain four days in the box. On opening it, he found only her
card with a line written across it, but the man went up the hill and into the cabin as if a
cyclone were driving him, for he read, "Has your bluebird come?"

He threw his travelling bag on the floor, ran to the telephone, and called the station. "Take
this message," he said. "Mrs. David Langston, care of Alexander Herron, 5770 Chestnut Street,
Philadelphia. Found note after four days' absence. Bluebird long past due. The fairies have
told it that my fate hereafter lies in your hands.

"As always. David."

The Harvester turned from the instrument and bent to embrace Belshazzar, leaping in ecstasy
beside him.

"Understand that, Bel?" he asked. "I don't know but it means something. Maybe it doesn't----not
a thing! And again, there is a chance----only the merest possibility----that it does. We'll
risk it, Bel, and to begin on I have nailed it as hard as I knew how. Next, we will clean the
house----until it shines, and then we will fill the cupboard, and if anything does happen we
won't be caught napping. Yes, boy, we will take the chance! We can't be any worse disappointed
than we have been before and survived it. Come along!"

He picked up the bag and arranged its contents, carefully brushed and folded on his shelves
and in his closet. Then he removed the travelling suit, donned the old brown clothes and went
to the barn to see that his creatures had been cared for properly. Early the next morning he
awoke and after feeding and breakfasting instead of going to harvest spice brush and alder
he stretched a line and hung the bedding from room after room to air and sun. He swept, dusted,
and washed windows, made beds, and lastly polished the floors throughout the cabin. He set
everything in order, and as a finishing touch, filled vases, pitchers, and bowls with the bloom
of red bud and silky willow catkins. He searched the south bank, but there was not a violet,
even in the most exposed places. By night he was tired and a little of the keen edge of his
ardour was dulled. The next day he worked scrubbing the porches, straightening the lawn and
hedges, even sweeping the driveway to the bridge clear of wind-whirled leaves and straw. He
scouted around the dry-house and laboratory, and spent several extra hours on the barn so that
when evening came everything was in perfect order. Then he dressed, ate his supper and drove
to the city.

He stopped at the mail box, but there was nothing from the Girl. The Harvester did not know
whether he was sorry or glad. A letter might have said the same thing. Nothing meant a delightful
possibility, and between the two he preferred the latter. He whistled and sang as he drove
to Onabasha, and Belshazzar looked at him with mystified eyes, for this was not the master
he had known of late. He did not recognize the dress or the manner, but his dog heart was sympathetic
to the man's every mood, and he remembered times when a drive down the levee always had been
like this, for to-night the Harvester's tongue was loosened and he talked in the old way.

"Just four words, Bel," he said. "And, as I remarked before, they may mean the most wonderful
thing on earth, and possibly nothing at all. But it is in the heart of man to hope, Bel, and
so we are going to live royally for a week or two, just on hope, old boy. If anything should
happen, we are ready, rooms shining, beds fresh, fireplaces filled and waiting a match, ice
chest cool, and when we get back it will be stored. Also a secret, Bel; we are going to a florist
and a fruit store. While we are at it, we will do the thing right; but we will stay away from
Doc, until we are sure of something. He means well, but we don't like to be pitied, do we,
Bel? Our friends don't manage their eyes and voices very well these days. Never mind! Our time
will come yet. The bluebird will not fail us, but never before has it been so late."

On his return he filled the pantry shelves with packages, stored the ice chest, and set a basket
of delicious fruit on the dining table. Two boxes remained. He opened the larger one and took
from it an arm load of white lilies that he carried up the hill and divided between the mounds
under the oak. Then he uncovered his head, and standing at the foot of them he looked among
the boughs of the big tree and listened intently. After a time a soft, warm wind, catkin-scented,
crept from the lake, and began a murmur among the clusters of brown leaves clinging to the
branches.

"Mother," said the Harvester, "were you with me? Did I do it right? Did I tell them what you
would have had me say for the boys? Are you glad now you held me to the narrow way? Do you
want me to go before men if I am asked, as Doc says I will be, and tell them that the only
way to abolish pain is for them to begin at the foundation by living clean lives? I don't know
if I did any good, but they listened to me. Anyway, I did the best I knew. But that isn't strange;
you ground it into me to do that every day, until it is almost an instinct. Mother, dear, can
you tell me about the bluebird? Is that softest little rustle of all your voice? and does it
say 'hope'? I think so, and I thank you for the word."

The man's eyes dropped to earth.

"And you other mother," he said, "have you any message for me? Up where you are can you sweep
the world with understanding eyes and tell me why my bluebird does not come? Does it know that
this year your child and not chance must settle my fate? Can you look across space and see
if she is even thinking of me? But I know that! She had to be thinking of me when she wrote
that line. Rather can you tell me----will she come? Do you think I am man enough to be trusted
with her future, if she does? One thing I promise you: if such joy ever comes to me, I will
know how to meet it gently, thankfully, tenderly, please God. Good night, little women. I hope
you are sleeping well----"

He turned and went down the hill, entered the cabin and took from the other box a mass of Parma
violets. He put these in the pink bowl and placed it on the table beside the Girl's bed. He
stood for a time, and then began pulling single flowers from the bowl and dropping them over
the pillow and snowy spread.

"God, how I love her!" he whispered softly.

