I returned to the balcony from which the storm had driven me, and was gratified by the sight
of the mountain-side studded with pearls, which a faint glow in the sky was gently touching.
The Danube roared and foamed with malicious glee as the poor Servians were still whirled about
on the water. But presently, through the deep gorges and along the sombre stream and over the
vineyards, the rocks and the roofs of humble cottages, stole a warm breeze, followed by dazzling
sunlight, which returned in mad haste to atone for the displeasure of the wind and rain. In
a few moments the refugees were again afield, spreading their drenched garments on the wooden
railings, and stalking about in a condition narrowly approaching nakedness. A gypsy four feet
high, clad in a linen shirt and trousers so wide as to resemble petticoats, strolled thoughtlessly
on the bank singing a plaintive melody, and now and then turning his brown face skyward as
if to salute the sun. This child of mysterious ancestry, this wanderer from the East, this
robber of roosts and cunning worker in metals, possessed nor hat nor shoes: his naked breast
and his unprotected arms must suffer cold at night, yet he seemed wonderfully happy. The Jews
and Greeks gave him scornful glances, which he returned with quizzical, provoking smiles. At
last he threw himself down on a plank from which the generous sun was rapidly drying the rain,
and, coiling up as a dog might have done, he was soon asleep.

With a marine glass I could see distinctly every movement on the Servian shore. Close to the
water's edge nestled a small village of neat white cottages. Around a little wharf hovered
fifty or sixty stout farmers, mounted on sturdy ponies, watching the arrival of the Mercur,
the Servian steamer from Belgrade and the Sava River. The Mercur came puffing valiantly forward,
as unconcerned as if no whirlwind had swept across her path, although she must have been in
the narrow and dangerous cañon of the "Iron Gates" when the blast and the shower were most
furious. On the roads leading down the mountain-sides I saw long processions of squealing and
grunting swine, black, white and gray, all active and self-willed, fighting each other for
the right of way. Before each procession marched a swineherd playing on a rustic pipe, the
sounds from which primitive instrument seemed to exercise Circean enchantment upon the rude
flocks. It was inexpressibly comical to watch the masses of swine after they had been enclosed
in the "folds"--huge tracts fenced in and provided with shelters at the corners. Each herd
knew its master, and as he passed to and fro would salute him with a delighted squeal, which
died away into a series of disappointed and cynical groans as soon as the porkers had discovered
that no evening repast was to be offered them. Good fare do these Servian swine find in the
abundant provision of acorns in the vast forests. The men who spend their lives in restraining
the vagabond instincts of these vulgar animals may perhaps be thought a collection of brutal
hinds; but, on the contrary, they are fellows of shrewd common sense and much dignity of feeling.
Kara-George, the terror of the Turk at the beginning of this century, the majestic character
who won the admiration of Europe, whose genius as a soldier was praised by Napoleon the Great,
and who freed his countrymen from bondage,--Kara-George was a swineherd in the woods of the
Schaumadia until the wind of the spirit fanned his brow and called him from his simple toil
to immortalize his homely name.

Master Josef and his fellows in Orsova did not hate the Servians with the bitterness manifested
toward the Roumanians, yet they considered them as aliens and as dangerous conspirators against
the public weal. "Who knows at what moment they may go over to the Russians?" was the constant
cry. And in process of time they went, but although Master Josef had professed the utmost willingness
to take up arms on such an occasion, it does not appear that he did it, doubtless preferring,
on reflection, the quiet of his inn and his flask of white wine in the courtyard rather than
an excursion among the trans-Danubian hills and the chances of an untoward fate at the point
of a Servian knife. It is not astonishing that the two peoples do not understand each other,
although only a strip of water separates their frontiers for a long stretch; for the difference
in language and in its written form is a most effectual barrier to intercourse. The Servians
learn something of the Hungarian dialects, since they come to till the rich lands of the Banat
in the summer season. Bulgarians and Servians by thousands find employment in Hungary in summer,
and return home when autumn sets in. But the dreams and ambitions of the two peoples have nothing
in common. Servia looks longingly to Slavic unification, and is anxious to secure for herself
a predominance in the new nation to be moulded out of the old scattered elements: Hungary believes
that the consolidation of the Slavs would place her in a dangerous and humiliating position,
and conspires day and night to compass exactly the reverse of Servian wishes. Thus the two
countries are theoretically at peace and practically at war. While the conflict of 1877 was
in progress collisions between Servian and Hungarian were of almost daily occurrence.

The Hungarian's intolerance of the Slav does not proceed from unworthy jealousy, but rather
from an exaggerated idea of the importance of his own country, and of the evils which might
befall it if the old Serb stock began to renew its ancient glory. In corners of Hungary, such
as Orsova, the peasant imagines that his native land is the main world, and that the rest of
Europe is an unnecessary and troublesome fringe around the edges of it. There is a story of
a gentleman in Pesth who went to a dealer in maps and inquired for a globus of Hungary, showing
that he imagined it to be the whole round earth.

So fair were the land and the stream after the storm that I lingered until sunset gazing out
over river and on Servian hills, and did not accept Josef's invitation to visit the chapel
of the Hungarian crown that evening. But next morning, before the sun was high, I wandered
alone in the direction of the Roumanian frontier, and by accident came upon the chapel. It
is a modest structure in a nook surrounded by tall poplars, and within is a simple chapel with
Latin inscriptions. Here the historic crown reposes, now that there is no longer any use for
it at Presburg, the ancient capital. Here it was brought by pious hands after the troubles
between Austria and Hungary were settled. During the revolution the sacred bauble was hidden
by the command of noblemen to whom it had been confided, and the servitors who concealed it
at the behest of their masters were slain, lest in an indiscreet moment they might betray the
secret. For thousands of enthusiasts this tiny chapel is the holiest of shrines, and should
trouble come anew upon Hungary in the present perturbed times, the crown would perhaps journey
once more.

It seems pitiful that the railway should ever invade this out-of-the-way corner of Europe.
But it is already crawling through the mountains: hundreds of Italian laborers are putting
down the shining rails in woods and glens where no sounds save the song of birds or the carol
of the infrequent passer-by have heretofore been heard. For the present, however, the old-fashioned,
comfortless diligence keeps the roads: the beribboned postilion winds his merry horn, and as
the afternoon sun is getting low the dusty, antique vehicle rattles up to the court of the
inn, the guard gets down, dusts the leather casing of the gun which now-a-days he is never
compelled to use: then he touches his square hat, ornamented with a feather, to the maids and
men of the hostelry. When the mails are claimed, the horses refreshed and the stage is covered
with its leathern hood, postilion and guard sit down together in a cool corner under the gallery
in the courtyard and crack various small flasks of wine. They smoke their porcelain pipes imported
from Vienna with the air of men of the world who have travelled and who could tell you a thing
or two if they liked. They are never tired of talking of Mehadia, which is one of their principal
stations. The sad-faced nobleman, followed by the decorous old man-servant in fantastic Magyar
livery, who arrived in the diligence, has been to the baths. The master is vainly seeking cure,
comes every year, and always supplies postilion and guard with the money to buy flasks of wine.
This the postilion tells me and my fellows, and suggests that the "honorable society" should
follow the worthy nobleman's example. No sooner is it done than postilion and guard kiss our
hands; which is likewise an evidence that they have travelled, are well met with every stranger
and all customs, and know more than they say.

The Romans had extensive establishments at Mehadia, which they called the "Baths of Hercules,"
and it is in memory of this that a statue of the good giant stands in the square of the little
town. Scattered through the hills, many inscriptions to Hercules, to Mercury and to Venus have
been found during the ages. The villages on the road thither are few and far between, and are
inhabited by peasants decidedly Dacian in type. It is estimated that a million and a half of
Roumanians are settled in Hungary, and in this section they are exceedingly numerous. Men and
women wear showy costumes, quite barbaric and uncomfortable. The women seem determined to wear
as few garments as possible, and to compensate for lack of number by brightness of coloring.
In many a pretty face traces of gypsy blood may be seen. This vagabond taint gives an inexpressible
charm to a face for which the Hungarian strain has already done much. The coal-black hair and
wild, mutinous eyes set off to perfection the pale face and exquisitely thin lips, the delicate
nostrils and beautifully moulded chin. Angel or devil? queries the beholder. Sometimes he is
constrained to think that the possessor of such a face has the mingled souls of saint and siren.
The light undertone of melancholy which pervades gypsy beauty, gypsy music, gypsy manners,
has an extremely remarkable fascination for all who perceive it. Even when it is almost buried
beneath ignorance and animal craft, it is still to be found in the gypsy nature after diligent
search. This strange race seems overshadowed by the sorrow of some haunting memory. Each individual
belonging to the Tsiganes whom I saw impressed me as a fugitive from Fate. To look back was
impossible; of the present he was careless; the future tempted him on. In their music one now
and then hears hints of a desire to return to some far-off and half-forgotten land. But this
is rare.

There are a large number of "civilized gypsies," so called, in the neighborhood of Orsova.
I never saw one of them without a profound compassion for him, so utterly unhappy did he look
in ordinary attire. The musicians who came nightly to play on the lawn in front of the Hungarian
Crown inn belonged to these civilized Tsiganes. They had lost all the freedom of gesture, the
proud, half-savage stateliness of those who remained nomadic and untrammelled by local law
and custom. The old instinct was in their music, but sometimes there drifted into it the same
mixture of saint and devil which I had seen in the "composite" faces.

As soon as supper was set forth, piping hot and flanked by flagons of beer and wine, on the
lawn, and the guests had assembled to partake of the good cheer, while yet the afterglow lingered
along the Danube, these dusky musicians appeared and installed themselves in a corner. The
old stream's murmur could not drown the piercing and pathetic notes of the violin, the gentle
wail of the guzla or the soft thrumming of the rude tambourine. Little poetry as a spectacled
and frosty Austrian officer might have in his soul, that little must have been awakened by
the songs and the orchestral performances of the Tsiganes as the sun sank low. The dusk began
to creep athwart the lawn, and a cool breeze fanned the foreheads of the listeners. When the
light was all gone, these men, as if inspired by the darkness, sometimes improvised most angelic
melody. There was never any loud or boisterous note, never any direct appeal to the attention.
I invariably forgot the singers and players, and the music seemed a part of the harmony of
Nature. While the pleasant notes echoed in the twilight, troops of jaunty young Hungarian soldiers,
dressed in red hose, dark-green doublets and small caps sometimes adorned with feathers, sauntered
up and down the principal street; the refugees huddled in corners and listened with delight;
the Austrian officials lumbered by, pouring clouds of smoke from their long, strong and inevitable
cigars; and the dogs forgot their perennial quarrel for a few instants at a time.

The dogs of Orsova and of all the neighboring country have many of the characteristics of their
fellow-creatures in Turkey. Orsova is divided into "beats," which are thoroughly and carefully
patrolled night and day by bands of dogs who recognize the limits of their domain and severely
resent intrusion. In front of the Hungarian Crown a large dog, aided by a small yellow cur
and a black spaniel mainly made up of ears and tail, maintained order. The afternoon quiet
was generally disturbed about four o'clock by the advent of a strange canine, who, with that
expression of extreme innocence which always characterizes the animal that knows he is doing
wrong, would venture on to the forbidden ground. A low growl in chorus from the three guardians
was the inevitable preliminary warning. The new-comer usually seemed much surprised at this,
and gave an astonished glance: then, wagging his tail merrily, as much as to say, "Nonsense!
I must have been mistaken," he approached anew. One of the trio of guardians thereupon sallied
forth to meet him, followed by the others a little distance behind. If the strange dog showed
his teeth, assumed a defiant attitude and seemed inclined to make his way through any number
of enemies, the trio held a consultation, which, I am bound to say, almost invariably resulted
in a fight. The intruder would either fly yelping, or would work his way across the interdicted
territory by means of a series of encounters, accompanied by the most terrific barking, snapping
and shrieking, and by a very considerable effusion of blood. The person who should interfere
to prevent a dog-fight in Orsova would be regarded as a lunatic. Sometimes a large white dog,
accompanied by two shaggy animals resembling wolves so closely that it was almost impossible
to believe them guardians of flocks of sheep, passed by the Hungarian Crown unchallenged, but
these were probably tried warriors whose valor was so well known that they were no longer questioned
anywhere.

The gypsies have in their wagons or following in their train small black dogs of temper unparalleled
for ugliness. It is impossible to approach a Tsigane tent or wagon without encountering a swarm
of these diminutive creatures, whose rage is not only amusing, but sometimes rather appalling
to contemplate. Driving rapidly by a camp one morning in a farmer's cart drawn by two stout
horses adorned with jingling bells, I was followed by a pack of these dark-skinned animals.
The bells awoke such rage within them that they seemed insane under its influence. As they
leaped and snapped around me, I felt like some traveller in a Russian forest pursued by hungry
wolves. A dog scarcely six inches high, and but twice as long, would spring from the ground
as if a pound of dynamite had exploded beneath him, and would make a desperate effort to throw
himself into the wagon. Another, howling in impotent anger, would jump full at a horse's throat,
would roll beneath the feet of the team, but in some miraculous fashion would escape unhurt,
and would scramble upon a bank to try again. It was a real relief when the discouraged pack
fell away. Had I shot one of the animals, the gypsies would have found a way to avenge the
death of their enterprising though somewhat too zealous camp-follower. Animals everywhere on
these border-lines of the Orient are treated with much more tenderness than men and women are.
The grandee who would scowl furiously in this wild region of the Banat if the peasants did
not stand by the roadside and doff their hats in token of respect and submission as he whirled
by in his carriage, would not kick a dog out of his way, and would manifest the utmost tenderness
for his horses.

Much as the Hungarian inhabitants of the Banat hate the Roumanians, they do not fail to appreciate
the commercial advantages which will follow on the union of the two countries by rail. Pretty
Orsova may in due time become a bustling town filled with grain- and coal-dépôts and with small
manufactories. The railway from Verciorova on the frontier runs through the large towns Pitesti
and Craiova on its way to Bucharest. It is a marvellous railroad: it climbs hills, descends
into deep gullies, and has as little of the air-line about it as a great river has, for the
contractors built it on the principle of "keeping near the surface," and they much preferred
climbing ten high mountains to cutting one tunnel. Craiova takes its name, according to a somewhat
misty legend, from John Assan, who was one of the Romano-Bulgarian kings, Craiova being a corruption
of Crai Ivan ("King John"). This John was the same who drank his wine from a cup made out of
the skull of the unlucky emperor Baldwin I. The old bans of Craiova gave their title to the
Roumanian silver pieces now known as bañi. Slatina, farther down the line, on the river Altu
(the Aluta of the ancients), is a pretty town, where a proud and brave community love to recite
to the stranger the valorous deeds of their ancestors. It is the centre from which have spread
out most of the modern revolutionary movements in Roumania. "Little Wallachia," in which Slatina
stands, is rich in well-tilled fields and uplands covered with fat cattle: it is as fertile
as Kansas, and its people seemed to me more agreeable and energetic than those in and around
Bucharest.

He who clings to the steamers plying up and down the Danube sees much romantic scenery and
many curious types, but he loses all the real charm of travel in these regions. The future
tourist on his way to or from Bulgaria and the battle-fields of the "new crusade" will be wise
if he journeys leisurely by farm-wagon--he will not be likely to find a carriage--along the
Hungarian bank of the stream. I made the journey in April, when in that gentle southward climate
the wayside was already radiant with flowers and the mellow sunshine was unbroken by cloud
or rain. There were discomfort and dust, but there was a rare pleasure in the arrival at a
quaint inn whose exterior front, boldly asserting itself in the bolder row of house-fronts
in a long village street, was uninviting enough, but the interior of which was charming. In
such a hostelry I always found the wharfmaster, in green coat and cap, asleep in an arm-chair,
with the burgomaster and one or two idle landed proprietors sitting near him at a card-table,
enveloped in such a cloud of smoke that one could scarcely see the long-necked flasks of white
wine which they were rapidly emptying. The host was a massive man with bulbous nose and sleepy
eyes: he responded to all questions with a stare and the statement that he did not know, and
seemed anxious to leave everything in doubt until the latest moment possible. His daughter,
who was brighter and less dubious in her responses than her father, was a slight girl with
lustrous black eyes, wistful lips, a perfect form, and black hair covered with a linen cloth
that the dust might not come near its glossy threads. When she made her appearance, flashing
out of a huge dark room which was stone paved and arched overhead, and in which peasants sat
drinking sour beer, she seemed like a ray of sunshine in the middle of night. But there was
more dignity about her than is to be found in most sunbeams: she was modest and civil in answer,
but understood no compliments. There was something of the princess-reduced-in-circumstances
in her demeanor. A royal supper could she serve, and the linen which she spread on the small
wooden table in the back courtyard smelled of lavender. I took my dinners, after the long days'
rides, in inns which commanded delicious views of the Danube--points where willows overhung
the rushing stream, or where crags towered above it, or where it flowed in smooth yet resistless
might through plains in which hundreds of peasants were toiling, their red-and-white costumes
contrasting sharply with the brilliant blue of the sky and the tender green of the foliage.

