Henry VIII. died in this palace, and all the noble names of his and the succeeding reigns seem
to haunt the site of the now vanished building. Here came Sir Thomas More, Erasmus and Thomas
Cromwell; Holbein occupied a set of apartments, and received a salary of 200 florins for painting
and decorating the rooms. Here are the ghosts of Cranmer, Katharine of Aragon, Jane Seymour,
Latimer and Ridley; later we see a courtlier gathering--Cecil, Essex, Leicester, Raleigh, Drake,
Walsingham, Philip Sydney. So true it is, the King doth make the Court. Some time later, in
the reign of Charles II., we have a different class of men altogether--Monk, Clarendon, Sedley,
Rochester, Wycherley, Dryden, Butler, Suckling, Carew. Here came crowds to be touched for the
King's evil. Here the unfortunate Duke of Monmouth implored pardon at his uncle's feet in vain.
Whitehall was also the home of the short-lived masque, a form of entertainment extremely costly.

In 1691 a fire broke out, and all the buildings between the stone gallery and the river were
burned down, and six years later another fire finished nearly all that the first had left.

Inigo Jones prepared plans for a new palace that should eclipse the old, and his designs lacked
not anything on the side of magnificence; if the palace had been built as he designed, it would
have exceeded in splendour any building now in London, but he did not finish it. Like William
Rufus with Westminster Palace, like many another architect, his plans demanded more than his
allotted span of years, and before he could do more than put his imagination upon paper, and
realize but a fragment of it in stone, he was called away from a world dependent on the "work
of men's hands."

The fragment he has left us still stands; it was to be the banqueting-hall, but no Royal banquets
were held there; it was used as a Chapel Royal for many years, and is now the home of the United
Service Museum. For the magnificent ceiling painted by Rubens we are indebted to Charles I.,
who also designed to have the walls painted by Vandyck, a still more costly operation, which
was never carried out. The weathercock on the north end was put up by order of James II., so
that he might see whether the wind was for or against the dreaded Dutch fleet. The building
has one association never to be forgotten. On that black day when England shamed herself before
the nations by spilling the blood of her King, the scaffold was erected before this building,
though the exact site is unknown. It is believed that the window second from the north end
is that in front of which it stood, and that the King stepped forth from a window in a small
outbuilding on the north side; he came forth to die, the only innocent man in all that great
crowd, who watched him suffer without raising a finger to save him. At that time the present
windows were not glazed, but walled in. William III. talked of rebuilding the palace, but he
died too soon. Queen Anne went to St. James's, and Whitehall was never rebuilt.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Horse Guards is almost directly opposite the Banqueting House, and stands on the site of
an old house for the Gentlemen Pensioners who formed the guard when there was not a standing
army in England. This itself superseded the tilt-yard built by King Henry VIII., though the
actual yard was the wide space at the back of the building, which still witnesses the trooping
of the colours and other ceremonies on state occasions. It is interesting to notice that the
words "Tilt-yard Guards" still occur in the regulations hung up inside the sentry-boxes where
the magnificent sentries keep guard, to the wonder and admiration of every small boy who passes.

