One evening when he sat listening he suddenly lifted his eyes and gazed at the Pearl, who sat
almost the length of the room away from him. The cabin was lighted only by the great log fire,
and the leaping, ardent flames of the pine, mingled with the soft, glowing radiance of burning
birch, invested the room and its occupants with that atmosphere of mystery and glamour, essential
in flame-illumined shadow. And Hugh was playing the music the masters dreamed in the twilight
hours when silence and shadow permitted them, even wooed them to a more intimate revelation
of the heart than the definite splendors of daylight inspired.

Beyond the zone of the firelight, the room was all in a warm gloom, rich and dim. Pearl and
Hugh had gathered fir branches, even some young trees, and had placed them about the walls,
and in the warmth their aromatic, delicious odor permeated and pervaded the cabin, and one
discerning those half-defined branches might easily imagine that the walls stretched away into
the dim forest.

Pearl lay back in an easy chair, her narrow, half-closed eyes on the leaping flames. The wind,
low to-night, the wind of eternity which blows ever in the mountains, sang about the cabin
and blended with Hugh's music like a faint violin obligato. But even in this soft twilight
of blending and mingling and harmonizing, with pine branches above and beyond her and shadowed
gloom about her, Pearl never for a moment seemed the spirit of the forest.

With its dim depths for a background, she shone on it, as brilliant and distinct from it as
a flashing jewel on the breast of a nun. Her crimson frock caught a deeper warmth from the
firelight, her black hair shone like a bird's wing, the jewels on her fingers sent out sparkles
of light and flame. As Saint Harry continued to gaze at her the forest with all its haunting,
dreaming witchery vanished, the high invitation of the mountains, "Come ye apart," ceased to
echo in his ears. The world environed, encompassed her; he seemed to discern the yearning of
her spirit for it, the airy rush of her winged feet toward it; and yet her eyes, those eyes
which sometimes held the look of having gazed for ages on time's mutations, were turned toward
the desert. Then Seagreave's moment of vision passed and he turned to Hugh with an odd sinking
of the heart.

Hugh had ceased to play and sat silent now on his piano stool with that motionless, concentrated
air of his, as if listening to something afar.

"Hughie," said Seagreave softly, "what are you and your sister, anyway?"

Hugh laughed and, leaning his elbow on the keys, rested his cheek on his palm. "I am a little
brother of the wind," he said. "I was just listening to it singing to me out there; and Pearl,
well, Pearl is a daughter of fire."

"What is it that you hear that I don't?" asked Harry. "I listen to the wind, too, sometimes
for hours, up there in my cabin; but it's only a falling, sighing thing to me, sometimes a
rising, shrieking one. What is this gift of music?"

"I don't know," said Hugh simply, "but if you will wait a moment, I will play you the song
the wind is singing through the pines to-night. It is just a little, sad one."

Again he sat immobile, listening for a while and then began to play so plaintive and wistful
a melody that Harry felt the old sorrow wake and stir within his heart and demand a reckoning
of the forgetful years. Not realizing that he did so, he arose and began to pace up and down
the room, nor remembered where he was until he looked up to see Pearl watching him, surprise
and even a slight curiosity upon her face.

"Forgive me," he said, stopping before her, "for walking up and down that way as if I were
in my own cabin, but something in Hugh's music set me to dreaming."

"You didn't look as if they were happy dreams," she said.

"Didn't I?" he spoke as lightly as he could; then he changed the subject. "Do you know that
the crust on the snow is thicker than it has been yet? How would you like to go out on your
snow-shoes to-morrow morning?"

She looked her pleasure. "That will be fine," she cried eagerly.

She was up betimes the next day, anxious to see whether more snow had fallen during the night;
but none had. To her joy, it was one of those brilliant mornings when the sky seems a dome
of sapphire sparkles, and the crust of the snow with the sun on it is like white star-dust
overlaid with gold. The radiance would have been unbearable had not the bare, black trees veiled
the sky with their network of branches and twigs and the pines softened the snow with their
shadows.

Pearl had rapidly acquired proficiency in her new accomplishment, and she and Seagreave had
covered several miles when, on their return, they paused to rest a bit in the little bower
of stunted pines. Here Seagreave cut some branches from the trees for them to sit on and, gathering
some dry, fallen boughs and cones, built a fire.

They enjoyed this a few moments in silence and then Pearl spoke. "Why," she asked with her
usual directness, "why did you get up and walk up and down the room last night when Hughie
was playing? What was it in his music that made you forget all of us and even, as you said,
forget that you were not in your own cabin?"

"That was stupid of me and rude, too," he said compunctiously. "Something that he was playing
called up so vivid a memory that I forgot everything."

There was a quick gleam in her eyes; she was resentful of memories that could make him forget
her very presence, hers. "What was it you were thinking of?" she asked. Her voice was low.

He looked out over the snow before he answered. "A girl," he said, and cast another handful
of pine cones upon the fire.

She did not speak nor move, and yet her whole being was instinct with a sudden tense attention.
"Yes, a girl," she said insistently. "What was she like?" the words leaped from her, voicing
themselves almost without her volition.

He sighed and appeared to speak with some effort. "It was long ago," he said. "She was like
violets or white English roses."

"And did you love her?" she asked, that soft tenseness still in her voice, "and did she love you?"

"I suppose every man has his ideal of woman, perhaps unconsciously to himself, and she was mine."

He sighed again and she glanced quickly at him from the corners of her eyes with a half scornful
smile upon her lips. She knew that she did not suggest violets, shy and fragrant and hidden
under their own green leaves; neither was there anything in the mountains to suggest the gardens
in which roses grew. But he had left the violets and English roses long ago, because of that
spirit of restlessness within him, and finally he had come to these wild, savage mountains
and was content here, where it was difficult even to picture the calm and repose of the gardens
he had left. He had said that he did not know why he had come, but Pearl did. She never doubted
it. It was the call of her heart across the world to him, seeking him, reaching him, drawing
him to her.

"And does it make you unhappy to think of her now?" she asked still softly.

"No," he said, "no, not now. But last night something in the music caused the years to drop
away and I was back there again and she rose before me. Really, I felt her very presence. I
saw her as plainly as I see you now."

Pearl rose and shook the snow from her cloak. "Forget it," she said scornfully. The little
horse-shoe frown showed between her brows, and her eyes as she looked at him were full of a
sparkling disdain. "That girl wasn't worth that," she snapped her fingers. "And here you've
been loping over the globe for years, because she turned you down. I should think you'd feel
like a fool." She spoke quite fearlessly, although Seagreave had thrown up his head and stood
looking at her with a white face and compressed lips. "But that ain't the reason," she went
on shrewdly. "I know men. You like to think you quit things because of the girl," she laughed
that low, harsh, unpleasant laugh of hers. "You quit 'em because you got lazy, and anything
like a responsibility was a bore. That's straight."

Without another glance at him, she sped down the hill, like an arrow shot from a bow.

CHAPTER XII

As that long, white winter slowly wore away there were many in the camp who, although they
had endured the strain of a wearing monotony through many previous seasons, nevertheless suffered
greatly from it; and, in consequence, as the clock of the year began to indicate spring an
almost riotous joy was felt and expressed when it was announced through the camp that the Black
Pearl had again consented to dance for them.

It was considered a truly fitting celebration of the fact that there had already been one great
thaw, and, although there was every possibility of things freezing up again, yet nevertheless
spring had at last loosed her hounds and they were hard on winter's traces. In fact, one belated
train, after hours spent on the road, had succeeded in pushing through, an evidence that they
all would soon be running with their accustomed, if rather erratic regularity, and there was
naturally a tremendous excitement and jollification in the camp at this arrival of the first
mail bearing news from the outside world.

The messages for Pearl included a letter from her mother and one from Bob Flick, but none from
Hanson. Bob Flick announced that his patience was worn thin and that he would be up on the
first train bearing passengers. Mrs. Gallito's letter was full of commiserations for her daughter
on her enforced detention, and she evidently regarded the nature of that durance as particularly
vile.

"Pearl, how you been standing it up in that God-forsaken hole where you can't even keep warm
is what beats me. Seems to me I went to church once, oh, just for a lark, and the preacher
talked about some plagues of Egypt, all different kinds, you know. It was real interesting.
I always remembered it. But in looking back over plagues I've seen, the very worst of all was
snow. I'm afraid, when I see you again, you'll be all skin and bone and shadow. I do hope you
won't be sick like poor Hanson. I had an awful sad letter from him; seems he took cold and's
been at death's door."

Pearl rustled the paper impatiently. She was not interested in this news. Hanson occupied her
thoughts so little that she did not even pause to wonder how he was. The very sight of his
name in the letter stirred a vague irritation in her. Absorbed in her love for Seagreave, Hanson
had become to her as a forgotten episode.

However, her mother dropped the subject and took up the more interesting one of Lolita. "That
bird certainly has mourned for you, Pearl. I guess she'd have just about pined away if it hadn't
been for Bob Flick."

But Pearl was not the only recipient of letters from the outside world; all of the little group,
with the exception of José, had received their quota, even Mrs. Nitschkan. But the bulk of
the mail, which Gallito brought up from the village postoffice and gravely distributed, fell
to Mrs. Thomas. Almost without exception, these envelopes were addressed in straggling, masculine
characters which suggested painful effort and seemed to indicate that the writers were more
used to the pick and shovel than to the pen. But although Mrs. Thomas had to spell out the
contents of each missive with more or less difficulty, her giggles, blushes and occasional
exclamations showed how much pleasure they afforded her.

Mrs. Nitschkan, however, after glancing carelessly at the large, yellow envelope which was
addressed to her in a clerkly hand, cast it carelessly aside and went on assiduously cleaning
and oiling her gun. But the sight of it aroused Mrs. Thomas's curiosity, and after glancing
at it once or twice over the top of her own letters, she could not forbear to ask:

"Ain't you going to read your letter, Sadie?"

"Mebbe. Sometime. By an' by. When I get good an' ready," returned the gypsy indifferently and
abstractedly, squinting with one eye down the barrel of her gun. "What do I want with letters?
I got two bear an' a mountain lion before the snow flew."

Mrs. Thomas laid aside her letters for the moment, and, lifting a large pot of coffee from
the stove, poured out a cupful for her friend and then one for herself. "Here, Sadie," she
coaxed, "rest yourself with a cup of coffee. I'll set down the sugar and cream an' whilst you're
drinking it, open your letter. Come now, do. Maybe it's from a gentleman."

"It sure is," replied Mrs. Nitschkan, laying her gun carefully across her knee, wiping her
hands on the cloth with which she had been polishing it, and then dropping several lumps of
sugar into the cup, she poured herself a liberal allowance of cream. "It's a bill for that
double-j'inted, patent, electrical fishin' rod that I sent East for, clean to New York City,
for a weddin' present for Celia."

Mrs. Thomas gave a faint, scornful laugh at the thought of this most incongruous gift for Mrs.
Nitschkan's pretty, feminine daughter. "A fishin' rod for Celia!" she exclaimed, "when all
she ever thinks about is cookin' an' sweepin' an' sewin' all day."

"That's it," Mrs. Nitschkan radiated self-approbation and satisfaction. "It made a nice show
at the weddin', didn't it? And it has sure been useful to me since."

But Mrs. Thomas had again absorbed herself in her correspondence, and it is doubtful if she
heard these last words. "Say, Sadie," she cried presently, a ripple of joyous excitement in
her voice, "listen here to what Willie Barker says, 'If you don't come back soon, I'm a-going
to lay right down an' die, or maybe take my own life.'"

"Then you'll stay right on here," said Mrs. Nitschkan shortly but emphatically. "Such a chanst
as that's not to be missed."

Mrs. Thomas pouted, "But, honest, can't we pretty soon leave these old prospects that you're
a-nursin' along to salt an' get ready to palm off on some poor Easterner?"

The gypsy took a long draught of coffee, wiping her mouth on the back of her hand. "Your ungratefulness'll
strike in and probably kill you, Marthy Thomas. Here I burdened myself with you to save your
life insurance and the nice little property Seth left you from a pack of wolves in the camp
that's after them, an' not you, an' what thanks do I get? All these months I been workin' like
the devil to convert you an' José, an' as far as either of you's concerned, I might a darned
sight better have put in my time tryin' to save the soul of a flea. You couldn't even let a
poor, God-forsaken robber like José alone. Don't you know that if you get a thousand husbands
they'll all treat you as bad or worse'n Seth did?"

"He's an angel in heaven right now an' don't you dare say a word against him, Sadie Nitschkan,"
cried Mrs. Thomas defensively, "but he was a devil all the same."

"They'll all be devils," returned Mrs. Nitschkan fatalistically. "They's no man can stand seein'
a feather pillow around all the time an' not biff it, especially when it can turn on a gallon
of tears any time of the day or night."

Mrs. Thomas made no effort to refute this last aspersion. Instead, she began to weep loudly
and unrestrainedly. "Bob Martin says in his letter that he hopes I'm havin' a pleasant time,"
she sobbed. "He don't know the loneliness, not to say the danger, of being snowed up in these
mountains with a woman that ain't got no more feelin' than to skin you alive whenever she's
a mind to. I ain't afraid of gentlemen, even husbands, but sometimes when you get to jawin'
me, Sadie, with a gun in your hand, it makes my poor heart go like that, an' I crawl all over
with goose-flesh."

Fortunately, the thaws continued, and if no great quantity of snow fell between now and then,
the first passenger train was scheduled to run through on the day that Pearl would dance, but
Bob Flick, by some method known to himself, had succeeded in making his journey on the engine,
and thus arrived at Gallito's cabin several days before he was expected, looking a little more
worn than usual and faintly anxious, an expression which speedily disappeared as he saw the
radiant health and spirits of Pearl. As for her, she was unfeignedly glad to see him.

"I sure have worried a lot about you this winter, Pearl," he said to her that evening as they
two sat a little apart from the rest, Gallito, José, Hugh and Seagreave, who all clustered
about the fire, while Pearl, as usual, had drawn her chair within the warm gloom of the pine-scented
shadow.

"Ain't you silly!" She looked up at him with her heart-shattering, adorable smile.

"I am always about you," he said. "You're all I think of, Pearl, night and day."

She patted his arm lightly. "I've always got you to depend on anyway, haven't I, Bob?" Her
soft, lazy, sliding voice was itself a caress.

"You sure have. Anytime, anywhere. No matter what happens, I can't ever change, Pearl. Lord!
You ought to know that by this time."

"Maybe I do, Bob, and maybe I like knowing it."

"I hope you do, but it wouldn't make any difference whether you did or didn't. I got to love
you. I guess the cards fell that way for me before I was born and nothing can ever change that
layout."

"You've never failed me yet, Bob."

"And never will. Oh, Pearl, don't you, can't you see your way to marrying me?"

She stirred restlessly, a faintly troubled look shadowing her face. "There's so many of me,
and I never know what I'm going to do or how I'm going to feel. I'd just be bound to make you
miserable."

"It wouldn't be the first time," he said a little sadly. "But you see I know you. I ain't got
any mistaken notions about you, and I love you more than any other man in this life'll ever
do, Pearl."

Again she moved and looked at him as if his words had roused in her some regret. "I guess that's
so; but--it wouldn't be a square deal."

"I'll tend to that," he urged, "and you'll just have to know that I'm always loving you, no
matter what's to pay."

"I--" she began, but was interrupted by José, who bowed low before her.

"Señorita," grandiosely, "the ladies and your father beg that, unworthy as I am to dance on
the same floor as you, that yet, as a compliment to Mr. Flick, we go through some of the Spanish
dances together."

Pearl assented and half rose, but Flick laid a detaining hand on her sleeve. "She will in a
minute," he said. "Run along now, José, me and Miss Gallito's got something to talk over."
He bent close to her again. "Pearl," there was the faintest shake in his voice, "what are you
going to tell me, now?"

"Oh, Bob," the regret was in her voice now, "I wish, I wish you didn't feel that way. I love
you more than 'most anybody in the world--but not that way. And--and I don't want to lose your
love for me. I like to know it's there. I sort of lean up against it."

He waited a moment or two before answering her, and then his voice was as steady as ever. "You
can always come back to my love for you. The stars can fall out of the sky and the mountains
slide down, but my love for you can't change, Pearl. It's fixed and steady and forever."

"Dear old Bob," she touched his cheek as she passed him with a light caress and went on into
the room beyond to get her dancing slippers.

It was later that evening that José began his unceasing importunities to see Pearl dance in
the town hall. A stern and surprised veto of this plan was his immediate answer. But José was
the most convincing and plausible of pleaders.

"But, Gallito," he cried almost piteously, "since Mrs. Nitschkan has watched my manners I have
been like an angel. No more does the camp say that this hill is haunted, you know that."

"I told you what you'd get if you didn't stop hootin' at people who was passin'," remarked
Mrs. Nitschkan, knocking the ashes from her pipe out on the hearth and then carefully refilling
it. "But you're none so good now that you need brag. I don't know that playin' monkey tricks
to frighten folks ain't just as good a way to put in the time as sittin' 'round holdin' hands
with Marthy Thomas."

"Sadie!" Mrs. Thomas drew forth her handkerchief and prepared to shed the ready tear. "How
you can have the heart to talk so to a woman that ain't buried her husband twelve months! Mr.
José ain't even thought of takin' the liberties you sit there accusin' him of. If I had a live
husband to pertect me, you wouldn't dare treat me like what you do. Whenever you miss a shot,
or get fooled on a prospect, or get some money won away from you, you come back to our little
cabin an' sit lookin' at me like you was a wolf an' talkin' like you was a she-bear. And--and
it's darned hard, that's what it is."

"If you were a man, Nitschkan," José drew himself up truculently, "you would indeed answer
for such speeches, and you would not have converted me so easily, either. I have no fear of
men." This was quite true, he had not, but his eye quailed and drooped before the steady gaze
of Mrs. Nitschkan.

"Come, come," said Gallito peremptorily, "I am glad to see you all each evening about my fireside,
but I will have no arguing nor quarreling, understand that. A man's house is his castle."

José diplomatically dropped the subject, which did not mean that he had abandoned his plan
for one moment. He merely waited a more convenient season. His strongest arguments were that
it was not an infrequent occurrence for Gallito to entertain guests of his own nationality
in his mountain cabin. "And my hair!" cried José pathetically. "It would be a crown of glory
to Nitschkan if she had it; but it is a shame to me, a man, to have to wear it so long. No
one in the camp could possibly know that I have ears."

Gallito at first absolutely refused to listen to him, but so adroitly did José bring up the
subject every evening that he began to make some impression on his stern jailer. He was careful,
though, not to mention his hopes until near midnight, when Gallito's normally harsh mood was
greatly softened not only by winning the final game, which José invariably permitted now, but
also by the mellowing influence of his bland, old cognac. Then Gallito would embark on an argument,
determined to convince José of the wild folly of his desire.

Their debate continued for several evenings and finally ended, as José meant it should, in
Gallito giving a reluctant consent, under certain conditions which he insisted should be rigidly
carried out.

He admitted that it was unlikely that any suspicion would be aroused in the village. Those
who saw the party enter the hall would, if they thought about the matter at all, take it for
granted that the stranger was some friend of Bob Flick's who had come up with him on the train.
But two conditions Gallito insisted upon: the first, that José was to turn the collar of his
heavy overcoat high up about his face and draw his hat low over his brows, and the second was
that he was only to be permitted to observe the dancing from behind the curtain of the little
recess at the end of the hall which served Pearl as a dressing room. He might gaze his fill
through the peep-hole there, but under no circumstances was he to be seen in the body of the
hall. But these conditions, as Gallito pointed out, were entirely dependent on Pearl. It was
a question whether she would tolerate José for a whole evening in her dressing room.

At first she flatly refused to do so and turned a persistently deaf ear to José's pleading.
She had to slip out of one frock and into another at least three times. There would not be
room with José sitting there.

"But, dear Señorita, I will not be sitting there," he cried. "When the moment comes that you
change your frock I will be standing with my face to the wall and my eyes covered with my hands."

"I should hope so," murmured Mrs. Thomas, who was present.

But Pearl had another reason for not wishing to be alone with José upon this occasion. She
meant to wear her emeralds, and she was not so anxious that the light-fingered bandit should
have so near a view of them. When she mentioned this to Bob Flick and her father, however,
they laughed at her fears. Not that they trusted José, but, as they pointed out, no matter
how much he might be tempted by the jewels, there was no possible way for him to escape with
them. He was clever enough to realize this, therefore his resistance to temptation under trying
circumstances might be taken for granted. So Pearl at last gave her reluctant consent.

Upon the afternoon of the day that Pearl was to dance Hughie brought the news that the first
train bearing passengers had arrived, hours late, nearer six o'clock in the evening, than twelve,
noon, when it was due; but nevertheless it had made the journey. It brought several people,
but no one seemed to know who they were.

"It is a question," said Gallito, squinting his eyes at the sky, "whether they will get back
as easily as they came. See, the snow is again beginning to fall."

It was still snowing as the entire party, men and women, drove down the hill to the town hall.
As there was not room for all in the mountain wagon, Seagreave again drove Pearl down in his cart.

They arrived early, as Gallito meant they should, and to his satisfaction found almost nobody
in the hall, which was yet but dimly lighted.

Pearl immediately vanished into her dressing room, with José carrying the case containing her
make-up, changes of costume, slippers, etc., close behind her.

Mrs. Nitschkan and Mrs. Thomas, Flick, Gallito and Seagreave selected their seats in the front
row and, sitting down, began a discussion of certain mining matters while the house gradually
filled. This took but a few moments. The inhabitants of Colina were too keen for a little diversion
after the winter famine of amusement to stand upon the order of their coming. They came at
once, and almost in a body.

Pearl was equally prompt, ready to begin upon the stroke of the hour, and as the time approached
Hughie could be heard running his fingers over the keys, although the curtains had not yet
been drawn back. By this time there was no longer standing room in the hall.

Mrs. Nitschkan was still deep in a mining discussion. "Who should I run across yesterday,"
she was saying, "but the Thompson boys. They just took a lease on the 'Pennyroyal,' you know,
and they wanted me to go up and look it over. Well, I know, and you know, Gallito, the history
of that mine from 'way back. 'She's got a bad name, boys,' I says, 'a bad name.' Well, I went
through some of the new drifts with 'em, and I chipped off some specimens." She pulled two
or three of these from her coat pocket and passed them over to the men. "They sure look mighty
good to me," she chuckled. "The truth of the matter is that that mine ain't never been worked
right. We can knock it so skilful, though, Gallito, that the boys'll be glad to let us have
it for 'most nothing. Jus' look 'round the hall, Bob, an' see if you can see 'em here to-night."

To oblige her he turned in his leisurely fashion and began to scan the audience.

Flick had never been known to start; that was a part of his training. If a cannon had been
fired off close to his ear, the narrowest observer could not have discerned the twitch of a
muscle; neither would he have exhibited the faintest change of expression; training again.
Now, his face was quite as impassive as usual. His mild, indifferent glance continued to rove
over the house, noting with the accuracy of an adding machine certain men who either stood
or sat in different parts of the house. Presently he encountered the gaze of Hanson, who was
sitting almost directly opposite to him and who was evidently trying to attract his attention.

Eye held eye. On Hanson's face was unconcealed triumph, a cynical exultation. He nodded with
smiling insolence, but Flick regarded him with a blank stare of non-recognition for a moment
or so and then turned indifferently away. It was a matter of considerable surprise to those
who bent watchful eyes on him from various parts of the hall that he did not, as far as they
could see, speak either to Gallito or Seagreave.

In any event, he would have had but little time for consultation with them, for almost immediately
the curtains were drawn aside, Hugh began to play, and Pearl made her appearance. That was
the signal for applause as prolonged as it was enthusiastic. She was like a vision of the spring
so eagerly awaited by these prisoners of winter. Her frock, which fell to her ankles, was of
some white, silky, soft material and was deeply bordered with silver; her sleeves were of silver
and there was a touch of silver on the bodice. Her emeralds gleamed like green fire against
her bare white throat and as she danced a froth of rose-colored petticoat was visible, foaming
above her ankles.

To all those eager, watching people Pearl seemed truly the incarnation of May in all its glory
and shimmer, and Hughie's music was like the silver, fluting notes of her insistent heralds
proclaiming the south wind, and bird calls and murmuring rivulets of melting snow. And when
she ceased and they finally permitted her to withdraw before dancing again it was almost with
a shock that they realized that the snow was still falling outside.

It was then that Bob Flick turned at last to his two companions. "You've seen?" was his brief,
low-voiced comment. Both men nodded.

"Every deputy in the county here," said Seagreave in as low a voice as the one Flick had used.
"No exits for us anywhere. The sheriff has them well stationed."

"Thank God, I came," muttered Gallito, "but I wish we knew their plan."

"That's easy," said Flick. "Hanson's so sure that he's won the game before it's played that
he's ready to tell any one that will listen to him how it all happened, before it's begun.
I guess I'll go over and talk to him a little before Pearl comes on again."

He rose to his tall, languid height and sauntered in his laziest fashion across the floor.

"Say, stranger," he began, resting his elbow on the back of a chair next Hanson, and leaning
his head on his hand, "haven't we met before. It seemed to me a few moments ago when I caught
your eye that your face was more or less familiar."

"Well, now ain't that strange!" exclaimed Hanson in affected surprise. "But I just had a sort
of an idea that you'd recognize me to-night in spite of my disguise. Yes, now you ask me, let
me tell you, since your memory is so poor, that we have met once or twice before, but it ain't
likely that we ever will again. Sad," he shook his head and sighed heavily, "I hate to disappoint
you by telling you so, but, someway, I got that idea firmly fixed in my head."

"Is that so?" said Flick politely. "Well, maybe you're right. It does kind of look so from
the layout you've got here. How are you going to play it, anyway? Both ends to the middle,
I suppose."

"Correct," returned Hanson blithely. "We lined up outside to watch you when you got out of
the wagon. If you hadn't brought him with you we wouldn't have disturbed you during the entertainment;
just gone up the hill and got him and then rounded the rest of you up afterward. But you were
kind enough to save us that trouble."

"Don't mention it," drawled Flick; "but I don't just sabe why you didn't take us when we drove
up. You had the whole bunch of us then."

"We're taking no chances," Hanson winked knowingly. "The boys up here have been having a pretty
long, dull winter, and such a move on our part might have given them the idea that we were
trying to break up their fun this evening, which they wouldn't have stood for. Then, old Gallito's
popular here, God knows why, and if he'd asked the boys to stand by him and they saw a chance
of some excitement, why, we'd have had an unnecessary mix-up. See? Not but what we'd have been
a good deal more than equal to any scrap they could have put up even if led by you and old
Gallito, but the sheriff didn't want any trouble of that kind when it was so easy to avoid it."

"Good sense," commended Flick, "but are you so sure you've entirely side-stepped that danger?
There's after-the-ball-is-over still to be considered."

"Trust old uncle wiseacre over there for that," said Hanson vaingloriously, and nodding as
he spoke toward the sheriff, who leaned big and calm and watchful against the door at the back
of the room. "He's a born general. The plan, son, can't be beat. They know he's in the Pearl's
dressing room and they got the building well surrounded on the outside. I guess it's a scheme
that even such crafty crooks as Gallito and--" He paused and quailed a little under Flick's
steady regard, the "you" he had meant to say died on his lips. From neither victor nor victim
did Bob Flick ever permit a familiarity. "Yes, there's no getaway possible," he substituted
hastily. "It'd be foolish of you boys to try and put up a fight."

"I guess you're right," agreed Flick. "I guess we're too old and stiff and tired to draw our
guns unless there's a chance for us, anyway." Flick rose with his usual languor. "Well, so
long Mr.---- your name sure does escape me." He strolled back to his companions, resuming his
seat in his usual unhurried and indifferent way. The curtains had not yet parted, so he took
occasion to relate to Gallito and Seagreave the result of his conversation with Hanson, careless
of the fact that the latter sat watching them, gloating with malicious amusement over the spectacle
of the three of them so hopelessly entangled in the net and yet engaging in the futile discussion
of methods of escape.

As Bob Flick whispered the scheme to the two men the gloom deepened on Gallito's face. It seemed
to him too comprehensive and efficacious to evade. But Harry did not share his depression.
As he listened his face changed and set. In his eyes was a flash like sunlight on steel. He
was the old Seagreave again whom José had once described to Gallito. The Seagreave whose mind
worked with lightning rapidity, who ventured anything, as gay and invincible he fought in the
last ditch, his back to the wall and all the odds against him.

"I've got an idea," he said. "It may not work, but it's a chance." He bent forward and in a
rapid whisper outlined his plan for them. "I wonder," he said, "if they'd nab me if I started
to go over and talk to Hughie? Do you suppose they would permit me a word with him?"

Flick laughed. "Any number of them," he said. "If the rats they've caught want to run around
in the trap, what's that to them?"

Seagreave had no opportunity to carry out his plan just then, for Hugh began to play and Pearl
made her second appearance. The very sight of her, their vision of spring, who seemed to have
sped up from the valley far below and transformed the dark and dreary winter, brought the house
to its feet and sent a storm of applause ringing to the rafters.

