MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I receive this very moment your dear letter of the 18th, and without
loss of time I begin my answer here, though the messenger can only go to-morrow. I cannot sufficiently
express to you my gratitude for the frankness with which you have written to me--and let me
entreat you, whenever you have anything sur le c[oe]ur, to do the same. I shall begin with
your postscript concerning the idea that I wished your present Ministers to retire, because
they had become disagreeable to France. The people who avancent quelque chose de la sorte probably
have some ill-natured motive which it is not always easy to guess; perhaps in the present instance
does it mean, let us say, that? whatever opinion he may then express we can easily counteract
it, representing it as the result of strong partiality to France. Let us therefore examine
what France has to gain in a change of Administration. Certainly your present Ministers are
not much loved now in France, not so much in consequence of the political events of last year
themselves, than for the manner in which they came to pass. Nevertheless, when I was at Paris,
King and Council were decided to sign the treaty with the four other Powers, which would put
an end to the isolement, though many people are stoutly for the isolement. There end the relations
which will exist for some time between the two countries--they will be on decent terms; that
is all I wish for the present, and it is matter of moonshine who your Ministers are. No doubt,
formerly there existed such a predilection in favour of Lord Grey's[42] Administration and
those who continued it, that the coming in of the Tories would have been considered as a great
public calamity; but even now, though this affection is gone, the Tories will also be looked
on with some suspicion. Lord Melbourne's Administration has had the great merit of being liberal,
and at the same time prudent, conservative in the good sense of the word, preserving what was
good. Monarchy, by an adherence to this system, was very safe, and the popular liberal cry
needless.

    [Footnote 42: 1830-1834.]

[Pageheading: KING LEOPOLD'S ADVICE]

(Continued at) LAEKEN, 21st May.

I regret that the Corn question was brought forward somewhat abruptly;[43] it is a dangerous
one, as it roused the most numerous and poorest classes of society, and may easily degenerate
into bloodshed. The dissolution under such circumstances would become still more a source of
agitation, as it generally always is in England. Lord Melbourne, I am sure, will think so too.

I am delighted by what you say of Albert; it is just the proper line for him to take, without
biassing you either way, to show you honestly the consequences which in his opinion the one
or the other may have. As he has really a very clear and logical judgment, his opinion will
be valuable for you. I feel very much for you, and these Ministerial complications are of a
most painful and perplexing nature, though less in England than on the Continent, as the thing
is at least better understood. To amuse you a little, and to prove to you how impartial I must
be to be in this way accused by both parties, I must tell you that it is said in France that,
conjointly with Lord Melbourne, we artfully ruined the Thiers Administration,[44] to the great
detriment of the honour and welfare of France. But what is still stranger is, that the younger
branches of the family, seeing that my arrival at Paris was delayed from time to time, became
convinced that I would not come at all, and that my intention was to cut them completely, not
to compromettre myself with England! Truly people are strange, and the unnecessary suspicions
and stories which they love to have, and to tell, a great bore....

Pray have the goodness of giving my kindest regards to Lord Melbourne. I will love him very
tenderly in and out of office, as I am really attached to him. Now last, though first, I offer
my sincerest wishes on the happy return of your birthday; may every blessing be always bestowed
on your beloved head. You possess much, let your warm and honest heart appreciate that. Let
me also express the hope that you always will maintain your dear character true and good as
it is, and let us also humbly express the hope that our warmth of feeling, a valuable gift,
will not be permitted to grow occasionally a little violent, and particularly not against your
uncle. You may pull Albertus by the ear, when so inclined, but be never irritated against your
uncle. But I have not to complain when other people do not instigate such things; you have
always been kind and affectionate, and when you look at my deeds for you, and on behalf of
you, these twenty-two years, I think you will not have many hardships to recollect. I am happy
to hear of my god-daughter's teeth, and that she is so well. May God keep the whole dear little
family well and happy for ever. My dearest Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 43: The Ministerial proposal of a fixed duty instead
    of a sliding scale.]

    [Footnote 44: The Thiers Government had resigned in the
    preceding October, owing to the King objecting to the warlike
    speech which they wished him to pronounce to the Chambers. The
    Soult-Guizot Cabinet was accordingly formed.]

[Pageheading: SIR ROBERT PEEL]

Memorandum of Mr Anson's last secret interview with Sir R. Peel. (No. 4.)

Sunday, 23rd May 1841.

Called upon Sir Robert Peel this morning. I said I could not feel satisfied without seeing
him after the very unexpected course which political affairs had taken. I wished to know that
he felt assured, though I trusted there could be no doubt upon his mind, that there had been
perfect honesty of purpose on my part towards him, and more especially upon the part of those
with whose knowledge I had been acting. I assured Sir Robert that H.M. had acted in the most
perfect fairness towards him, and I was most anxious that there should be no erroneous impression
upon his mind as to the conduct of either H.M. or the Prince.

I said (quoting the Prince's expression), "that the Queen has a natural modesty upon her constitutional
views, and when she receives an advice from men like the Lord Chancellor, Lord John Russell,
Mr Baring, Mr Labouchere, and Lord Clarendon, and knows that they have been weighing the question
through so many days, she concludes that her judgment cannot be better than theirs, and that
she would do wrong to reject their advice."

The Prince, I said, however strongly impressed for or against a question, thinks it wrong and
impolitic, considering his age and inexperience and his novelty to the country, to press upon
the Queen views of his own in opposition to those of experienced statesmen. Sir Robert said
he could relieve my mind entirely; that he was convinced that all that had taken place had
been with the most perfect honesty; that he had no feeling whatever of annoyance, or of having
been ill-used; that, on the contrary, he had the feeling, and should always retain it, of the
deepest gratitude to the Queen for the condescension which Her Majesty had been pleased to
show him, and that it had only increased his devotion to Her Majesty's person. He said that
much of the reserve which he had shown in treating with me was not on his own account, but
that he felt from his own experience that events were by no means certain, and he most cautiously
abstained from permitting her Majesty in any way to commit herself, or to bind herself by any
engagement which unforeseen circumstances might render inconvenient. Sir Robert said it was
very natural to try and remove obstacles which had before created so much confusion, and he
was convinced that they would have been practically removed by what had passed. He said that
neither Lord Stanley nor Sir James Graham knew a word of what had passed. That Mr Greville
had asked his friend Mr Arbuthnot whether some understanding had not been entered into between
Lord Melbourne and him. That Mr Arbuthnot had replied that he was certain that nothing of the
sort could have passed,[45] as, if it had, Sir Robert Peel would have informed him (Mr Arbuthnot)
of the fact. Again, Lady de Grey, the night of the ball at the Palace, came up to him and said
the Duke of Bedford had been speaking to her about the resignation of the Duchess of Bedford,
and asking her whether she thought it necessary. She volunteered to find out from Sir Robert
whether he thought it requisite. She asked the question, which Sir Robert tried to evade, but
not being able, he said it struck him that if it was a question of doubt the best means of
solving it, was for the Duke of Bedford to ask Lord Melbourne for his opinion.

I added that if the dissolution was a failure, which it was generally apprehended would be
the case, I felt convinced that Sir Robert would be dealt with in the most perfect fairness
by Her Majesty.

    [Footnote 45: "After I had been told by the Duke of Bedford
    that Peel was going to insist on certain terms, which was
    repeated to me by Clarendon, I went to Arbuthnot, told him
    Melbourne's impression, and asked him what it all meant. He
    said it was all false, that he was certain Peel had no such
    intentions, but, on the contrary, as he had before assured me,
    was disposed to do everything that would be conciliatory
    and agreeable to the Queen."--Greville's Journal, 19th May
    1841.]

[Pageheading: VOTE OF WANT OF CONFIDENCE]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

SOUTH STREET, 24th May 1841. This is a direct vote of want of confidence, and Lord Melbourne
would be inclined to doubt whether it will be carried, and if it is, it certainly will not
be by so large a majority as the former vote. When the Chancellor of the Exchequer moved the
resolution upon the Sugar Duties, Sir Robert Peel seconded the motion, thereby intending to
intimate that he did not mean to interfere with the Supplies. This course was determined upon
at a meeting held at Sir R. Peel's this morning.

    [Footnote 46: The closing words of the resolution were as
    follows: "... That Her Majesty's Ministers do not sufficiently
    possess the confidence of the House of Commons to enable
    them to carry through the House measures which they deem of
    essential importance to the public welfare, and that their
    continuance in office under such circumstances is at variance
    with the spirit of the Constitution."]

[Pageheading: PROSPECT OF DISSOLUTION]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

Sir John Hobhouse and Mr Macaulay completely exposed the fallacy of his resolution, and successfully
vindicated the government. Lord Worsley[47] declared he would oppose the resolution, which
declaration excited great anger, and produced much disappointment in the Tory party.

If the debate is carried on till next week, it is probable the Ministers may have a majority
of one or two.

The accounts from the country are encouraging.

It does not appear that Sir Robert Peel, even if he carries this motion, intends to obstruct
the measures necessary for a dissolution of Parliament.

    [Footnote 47: M.P. for Lincolnshire, who had voted for Lord
    Sandon's motion.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

31st May 1841.

... I beg you not to be alarmed about what is to be done; it is not for a Party triumph that
Parliament (the longest that has sat for many years) is to be dissolved; it is the fairest
and most constitutional mode of proceeding; and you may trust to the moderation and prudence
of my whole Government that nothing will be done without due consideration; if the present
Government get a majority by the elections they will go on prosperously; if not, the Tories
will come in for a short time. The country is quiet and the people very well disposed. I am
happy, dearest Uncle, to give you these quieting news, which I assure you are not partial....

[Pageheading: KING LEOPOLD'S VIEWS]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN 31st May 1841.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--Your Mother[48] is safely arrived, though she was received close to Ostende
by a formidable thunderstorm. I had given directions that everywhere great civilities should
be shown her. She stood the fatigues better than I had expected, and is less sleepy than in
England. She seems to be pleased with her séjour here, and inclined in fact to remain rather
than to go on; but I am sure, when once in Germany she will be both pleased and interested
by it. It will amuse you to hear from herself her own impressions.

I cannot help to add a few political lines. I regret much, I must confess, that the idea of
a dissolution has gained ground, and I will try to show in a very few words why I am against it.

In politics, a great rule ought to be to rule with the things which one knows already, and
not to jump into something entirely new of which no one can do more than guess the consequences.
The present Parliament has been elected at a moment most favourable to the present Administration
after a most popular accession to the throne, everything new and fresh, and with the natural
fondness of the great mass of people, a change is always popular; it was known that you were
kindly disposed towards your Ministers, everything was therefore à souhait for the election
of a new Parliament. In this respect Ministers have nothing like the favourable circumstances
which smiled upon them at the last general election. Feeling this, they raise a cry, which
may become popular and embarrass their antagonists about cheap bread! I do not think this is
quite befitting their dignity; such things do for revolutionaries like Thiers, or my late Ministers....
If the thing rouses the people it may do serious mischief; if not, it will look awkward for
the Ministers themselves. If you do not grant a dissolution to your present Ministers you would
have, at the coming in of a new Administration, the right to tell them that they must go on
with the present Parliament; and I have no doubt that they could do so. The statistics of the
present House of Commons are well known to all the men who sit in it, and to keep it a few
years longer would be a real advantage.

You know that I have been rather maltreated by the Tories, formerly to please George IV., and
since I left the country, because I served, in their opinion, on the revolutionary side of
the question. I must say, however, that for your service as well as for the quiet of the country,
it would be good to give them a trial. If they could not remain in office it will make them
quieter for some time. If by a dissolution the Conservative interest in the House is too much
weakened the permanent interests of the country can but suffer from that. If, on the contrary,
the Conservatives come in stronger, your position will not be very agreeable, and it may induce
them to be perhaps less moderate than they ought to be. I should be very happy if you would
discuss these, my hasty views, with Lord Melbourne. I do not give them for more than what they
are, mere practical considerations; but, as far as I can judge of the question, if I was myself
concerned I should have no dissolution; if even there was but the very banale consideration,
qu'on sait ce qu'on a, mais qu'on ne sait nullement ce qu'on aura. The moment is not without
importance, and well worthy your earnest consideration, and I feel convinced that Lord Melbourne
will agree with me, that, notwithstanding the great political good sense of the people in England,
the machine is so complicated that it should be handled with great care and tenderness.

To conclude, I must add that perhaps a permanent duty on corn may be a desirable thing, but
that it ought to be sufficiently high to serve as a real protection. It may besides produce
this effect, that as it will be necessary, at least at first, to buy a good deal of the to
be imported corn with money, the currency will be seriously affected by it. The countries which
would have a chance of selling would be chiefly Poland in all its parts, Prussia, Austria,
and Russia, the South of Russia on the Black Sea, and maybe Sicily. Germany does not grow a
sufficient quantity of wheat to profit by such an arrangement; it will besides not buy more
from England for the present than it does now, owing to the Zollverein,[49] which must first
be altered. But I will not bore you too long, and conclude with my best love to little Victoria,
of whom her Grandmama speaks with raptures. Ever, my dearest Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 48: The Duchess of Kent had left England for a tour
    on the Continent.]

    [Footnote 49: After the fall of Napoleon, the hopes of many
    Germans for a united national Germany were frustrated by
    the Congress of Vienna, which perpetuated the practical
    independence of a number of German States, as well as the
    predominance within the Germanic confederation of Austria,
    a Power largely non-German. One of the chief factors in the
    subsequent unification of Germany was the Zollverein, or
    Customs Union, by which North Germany was gradually bound
    together by commercial interest, and thus opposed to Austria.
    The success of this method of imperial integration has not
    been without influence on the policies of other lands.]

[Pageheading: THE OPPOSITION ELATED]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

  For Sir Robert Peel       312
  Against                   311
                            ---
  Majority                    1

The Opposition were greatly elated by this triumph. Lord Stanley, and Sir Robert Peel who spoke
last in the debate, did not deny that the Crown might exercise the prerogative of dissolution
in the present case. But they insisted that no time should be lost in previous debates, especially
on such a subject as the Corn Laws.

Lord John Russell spoke after Lord Stanley, and defended the whole policy of the Administration.

After the division he stated that he would on Monday propose the remaining estimates, and announce
the course which he meant to pursue respecting the Corn Laws.

[Pageheading: MARRIAGE OF LORD JOHN RUSSELL]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

6th June 1841.

... Now, many thanks for two letters of the 31st ult. and 4th June. The former I shall not
answer at length, as Albert has done so, and I think has given a very fair view of the state
of affairs. Let me only repeat to you again that you need not be alarmed, and that I think
you will be pleased and beruhigt when you talk to our friend Lord Melbourne on the subject...

I fear you will again see nothing of the Season, as Parliament will probably be dissolved by
the 21st....

As to my letters, dear Uncle, I beg to assure you (for Lord Palmerston was most indignant at
the doubt when I once asked) that none of our letters nor any of those coming to us, are ever
opened at the Foreign Office. My letters to Brussels and Paris are quite safe, and all those
to Germany, which are of any real consequence, I always send through Rothschild, which is perfectly
safe and very quick.

We are, and so is everybody here, so charmed with Mme. Rachel;[50] she is perfect, et puis,
such a nice modest girl; she is going to declaim at Windsor Castle on Monday evening.

Now adieu in haste. Believe me, always, your very devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Really Leopold must come, or I shall never forgive you.

    [Footnote 50: The young French actress, who made her début
    in England on 4th May as Hermione in Racine's Andromaque.
    She was received with great enthusiasm.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 8th June 1841.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. He is quite well, and has nothing
particular to relate to your Majesty, at least nothing that presses; except that he is commissioned
by Lord John Russell respectfully to acquaint your Majesty that his marriage is settled, and
will take place shortly.

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

Does Lord Melbourne really mean J. Russell's marriage? and to whom?

[Pageheading: VISIT TO NUNEHAM]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

The Lady Fanny Eliot.[51] Lord Melbourne did not name her before, nor does not now, because
he did not remember her Christian name.

    [Footnote 51: Daughter of Lord Minto. Lord Melbourne
    originally wrote The Lady ---- Eliot at the head of his
    letter (spelling the surname wrong, which should be Elliot).
    The word "Fanny" is written in subsequently to the completion
    of the letter.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

NUNEHAM,[52] 15th June 1841.

Affairs go on, and all will take some shape or other, but it keeps one in hot water all the
time. In the meantime, however, the people are in the best possible humour, and I never was
better received at Ascot, which is a great test, and also along the roads yesterday. This is
a most lovely place; pleasure grounds in the style of Claremont, only much larger, and with
the river Thames winding along beneath them, and Oxford in the distance; a beautiful flower
and kitchen garden, and all kept up in perfect order. I followed Albert here, faithful to my
word, and he is gone to Oxford[53] for the whole day, to my great grief. And here I am all
alone in a strange house, with not even Lehzen as a companion, in Albert's absence, but I thought
she and also Lord Gardner,[54] and some gentlemen should remain with little Victoria for the
first time. But it is rather a trial for me.

I must take leave, and beg you to believe me always, your most devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 52: The house of Edward Vernon Harcourt, Archbishop
    of York.]

    [Footnote 53: To receive an address at Commemoration.]

    [Footnote 54: Alan Legge, third and last Lord Gardner
    (1810-1883) was one of the Queen's first Lords-in-Waiting.]

[Pageheading: THE PRINCE VISITS OXFORD]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Lord Melbourne is sorry to hear that your Majesty has
been at all indisposed. It will suit him much better to wait upon your Majesty at dinner to-morrow
than to-day, as his hand shows some disposition to gather, and it may be well to take care of it.

Lord Melbourne is very glad to learn that everything went off well at Oxford. Lord Melbourne
expected that the Duke of Sutherland[55] would not entirely escape a little public animadversion.
Nothing can be more violent or outrageous than the conduct of the students of both Universities
upon such occasions; the worst and lowest mobs of Westminster and London are very superior
to them in decency and forbearance.

The Archbishop[56] is a very agreeable man; but he is not without cunning, and Lord Melbourne
can easily understand his eagerness that the Queen should not prorogue Parliament in person.
He knows that it will greatly assist the Tories. It is not true that it is universal for the
Sovereign to go down upon such occasions. George III. went himself in 1784; he did not go in
1807, because he had been prevented from doing so by his infirmities for three years before.
William IV. went down himself in 1830.[57]

Lord Melbourne sends a note which he has received from Lord Normanby upon this and another subject.

    [Footnote 55: Who was, of course, associated with the Whig
    Ministry.]

    [Footnote 56: Archbishop Vernon Harcourt, of York, the Queen's
    host.]

    [Footnote 57: The Queen prorogued Parliament in person on 22nd
    June.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 17th June 1841.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--A few lines I must write to you to express to you my very great delight
at the certainty, God willing, of seeing you all three next week, and to express a hope, and
a great hope, that you will try and arrive a little earlier on Wednesday.... I must again repeat
I am so sorry you should come when Society is dispersed and at sixes and sevens, and in such
a state that naturally I cannot at the moment of the elections invite many Tories, as that
tells so at the elections. But we shall try and do our best to make it as little dull as we
can, and you will kindly take the will for the deed.

We came back from Nuneham yesterday afternoon. Albert came back at half-past five on Tuesday
from Oxford, where he had been enthusiastically received, but the students ... had the bad
taste to show their party feeling in groans and hisses when the name of a Whig was mentioned,
which they ought not to have done in my husband's presence.

I must now conclude, begging you ever to believe me, your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

My Coiffeur will be quite at Louise's disposal, and he can coiffer in any way she likes, if
her dresser tells him how she wishes it.

[Pageheading: LORD BROUGHAM]

[Pageheading: LETTER FROM LORD BROUGHAM]

Lord Brougham to Queen Victoria.[58]

GRAFTON STREET, 19th June 1841.

MOST GRACIOUS SOVEREIGN,--I crave leave humbly to approach your Majesty and to state in writing
what I should have submitted to your Royal consideration at an Audience, because I conceive
that this course will be attended with less inconvenience to your Majesty.

In the counsel which I ventured with great humility, but with an entire conviction of its soundness,
to tender, I cannot be biassed by any personal interest, for I am not a candidate for office;
nor by any Parliamentary interest, for I have no concern with elections; nor by any factious
interest, for I am unconnected with party. My only motive is to discharge the duty which I
owe to both the Crown and the country. Nor am I under the influence of any prejudice against
your Majesty's servants or their measures; for I charge your Majesty's servants with nothing
beyond an error, a great error, in judgment, and I entirely approve of the measures which they
have lately propounded (with a single exception partially applicable to one of them), while
I lament and disapprove of the time and manner of propounding them, both on account of the
Government and of the measures themselves.

I feel myself, Madam, under the necessity of stating that the dissolution of the Parliament
appears to me wholly without justification, either from principle or from policy. They who
advise it must needs proceed upon the supposition that a majority will be returned favourable
to the continuance of the present Administration and favourable to their lately announced policy.
On no other ground is it possible that any such advice should be tendered to your Majesty.
For no one could ever think of such a proceeding as advising the Crown to dissolve the Parliament
in order to increase the force of the Opposition to its own future Ministers, thus perverting
to the mere purposes of party the exercise of by far the most eminent of the Royal prerogatives;
and I pass over as wholly unworthy of notice the only other supposition which can with any
decency be made, when there is no conflict between the two Houses, namely, that of a dissolution
in entire ignorance of the national opinion and for the purpose of ascertaining to which side
it inclines. Your Majesty's advisers must, therefore, have believed, and they must still believe,
that a majority will be returned favourable both to themselves and their late policy. I, on
the other hand, have the most entire conviction that there will be a considerable majority
against them, and against their policy a majority larger still, many of their supporters having
already joined to swell that majority. Whoever examines the details of the case must be satisfied
that the very best result which the Government can possibly hope for is a narrow majority against
them--an event which must occasion a second dissolution by whatever Ministry may succeed to
the confidence of your Majesty. But those best acquainted with the subject have no doubt at
all that the majority will be much more considerable.

I beg leave, Madam, humbly to represent to your Majesty, in my own vindication for not having
laid my opinion before your Majesty as soon as I returned from the Continent, that when I first
heard of the course taken by the Government early in May, I formed the opinion which I now
entertain, but conceived that I must have mistaken the facts upon which they were acting; and
when I arrived twelve days ago I was confirmed in the belief (seeing the fixed resolution taken
to dissolve) that I must have been under an erroneous impression as to the probable results
of the elections. But I have since found ample reason for believing that my original conviction
was perfectly well founded, and that no grounds whatever exist sufficient to make any one who
considers the subject calmly, and without the bias of either interest or prejudice, really
believe that this ill-fated proceeding can have any other result than lasting injury to your
Majesty's service, to the progress of sound and just views of policy, and to the influence
of those in whom the Crown and the country alike should repose confidence.

That a number of short-sighted persons whose judgments are warped by exclusive attention to
a single subject, or by personal feelings, or by party views (and these narrow and erroneous),
may have been loudly clamorous for the course apparently about to be pursued, is extremely
possible, and affords no kind of excuse for it. Many of these will be the slowest to defend
what they have so unfortunately called for; some will be among the first to condemn it when
a manifest failure shall have taken place, and general discomfiture shall throw a few local
successes into the shade.

My advice is humbly offered to your Majesty, as removed far above such confined and factious
views; as the parent of all your people; as both bound and willing to watch over their true
interests; and as charged by virtue of your exalted office with the preservation of the public
peace, the furtherance of the prosperity, and the maintenance of the liberties of your subjects.

I am, with profound respect, Madam, your Majesty's faithful and dutiful Subject,

BROUGHAM.[59]

    [Footnote 58: Mention has been made earlier of the resentment
    which Brougham cherished against his late colleagues, after
    his exclusion from the Whig Cabinet, and this letter, on the
    proposal to dissolve Parliament, was, no doubt, prompted by
    that feeling.]

    [Footnote 59: Parliament, however, notwithstanding this
    rescript of Lord Brougham, was dissolved, and the Ministry
    went to the country with the cry of a fixed duty on corn, as
    against a sliding scale, and they attacked, as monopolists, at
    once the landowner, who enjoyed protection for his wheat,
    and the West Indian proprietor, who profited by the duty on
    foreign sugar. The Conservatives impugned the general
    policy of the Whig Administration. The result, a majority of
    seventy-six, was an even greater Conservative triumph than the
    most sanguine of the party anticipated.--See Introductory
    Note, ante, p. 253. (Intro Note to Ch. X)]

[Pageheading: VISIT TO WOBURN]

Memorandum by Mr Anson.

WOBURN ABBEY, 27th July 1841.

Arrived here last night with the Prince and the Queen; this is now the second expedition (Nuneham
being the first) which Her Majesty has taken, and on neither occasion has the Baroness accompanied
us.

The Prince went yesterday through a review of the many steps he had made to his present position--all
within eighteen months from the marriage. Those who intended to keep him from being useful
to the Queen, from the fear that he might ambitiously touch upon her prerogatives, have been
completely foiled; they thought they had prevented Her Majesty from yielding anything of importance
to him by creating distrust through imaginary alarm. The Queen's good sense, however, has seen
that the Prince has no other object in all he seeks but a means to Her Majesty's good. The
Court from highest to lowest is brought to a proper sense of the position of the Queen's husband.
The country has marked its confidence in his character by passing the Regency Bill nem. con.
The Queen finds the value of an active right hand and able head to support her and to resort
to for advice in time of need. Cabinet Ministers treat him with deference and respect. Arts
and science look up to him as their especial patron, and they find this encouragement supported
by a full knowledge of the details of every subject. The good and the wise look up to him with
pride and gratitude as giving an example, so rarely shown in such a station, of leading a virtuous
and religious life.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 3rd August 1841.

... Our little tour was most successful, and we enjoyed it of all things; nothing could be
more enthusiastic or affectionate than our reception everywhere, and I am happy to hear that
our presence has left a favourable impression, which I think will be of great use. The loyalty
in this country is certainly very striking. We enjoyed Panshanger[60] still more than Woburn;
the country is quite beautiful, and the house so pretty and wohnlich; the picture-gallery and
pictures very splendid. The Cowpers are such good people too. The visit to Brocket naturally
interested us very much for our excellent Lord Melbourne's sake. The park and grounds are beautiful.

I can't admit the Duke of Bedford[61] ever was radical; God knows! I wish everybody now was
a little so! What is to come hangs over me like a baneful dream, as you will easily understand,
and when I am often happy and merry, comes and damps it all![62]

But God's will be done! and it is for our best, we must feel, though we can't feel it. I can't
say how much we think of our little visit to you, God willing, next year. You will kindly let
our good old Grandmother[63] come there to see her dear Albert once again before she dies,
wouldn't you? And you would get the Nemours to come? And you would persuade the dear Queen[64]
to come for a little while with Clémentine?

Now farewell! Believe me, always, your most devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 60: The house of Earl Cowper.]

    [Footnote 61: The Duke, who had formerly been M.P. for
    Bedfordshire, was inclined to go further in the direction of
    Reform than Lord John, yet he applauded the latter's attitude
    on the occasion of the speech which earned him the nickname of
    "Finality Jack."]

    [Footnote 62: Alluding to the Ministerial defeat at the
    polls.]

    [Footnote 63: The Dowager Duchess of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg.]

    [Footnote 64: Marie Amélie, Queen of the French.]

[Pageheading: LORD MELBOURNE AND THE GARTER]

Memorandum by Mr Anson.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 7th August 1841.

I went to Lord Melbourne this morning in his room as he had desired me. He said: "The Prince
has been urging me to accept the Blue Riband before I quit office, and I wished to tell you
that I am very anxious that this should not be pressed upon me by the Queen; it may be a foolish
weakness on my part, but I wish to quit office without having any honour conferred upon me;
the Queen's confidence towards me is sufficiently known without any public mark of this nature.
I have always disregarded these honours, and there would be an inconsistency in my accepting
this. I feel it to be much better for my reputation that I should not have it forced upon me.
Mr Pitt never accepted an order, and only the Cinque Ports on being pressed to do so. Lord
Grenville accepted a peerage, but never any other honour or advantage, and I wish to be permitted
to retire in like manner. If I was a poor man, I should have no hesitation in receiving money
in the shape of place or pension; I only don't wish for place, because I do not want it."

In the course of conversation Lord Melbourne said that he considered it very improbable that
he should ever again form a part of any Administration.

He did not think that a violent course was at all to be apprehended from Lord John Russell;
he said Lord John had been far more of a "finality" man than he had, and in the Cabinet had
always been averse to violent change. He added, "I think you are in error in forming the opinion
which you have of him."

Lord Melbourne thought the Queen very much disliked being talked at upon religion; she particularly
disliked what Her Majesty termed a Sunday face, but yet that it was a subject far more thought
of and reflected upon than was [thought to be?] the case.

[Pageheading: A DREADED MOMENT]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

SOUTH STREET, 15th August 1841.

... Lord Melbourne well knows the feeling which your Majesty describes. The expectation of
an event which is dreaded and deprecated, and yet felt to be certain and imminent, presents
itself continually to the mind and recurs at every moment, and particularly in moments of satisfaction
and enjoyment. It is perhaps no consolation to be told that events of this nature are necessary
and incidental to your Majesty's high situation, but Lord Melbourne anxiously hopes that the
change, when it does take place, will not be found so grievous as your Majesty anticipates,
and your Majesty may rely that Lord Melbourne will do everything in his power to reconcile
it to your Majesty's feelings.

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 17th August 1841.

Lord Melbourne is very glad to hear of the Princess's tooth.

Lord Melbourne is much obliged to your Majesty for informing him about the mourning.

He is quite well and will be ready when your Majesty sends.

Memorandum by Mr Anson.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 23rd August 1841.

Lord John Russell was staying at the Castle, and asked to-day for an audience of Her Majesty,
and was closeted for a long time. The Prince asked Her Majesty what Lord John came for. The
Queen said he came about several things, but particularly he wished to impress upon the Queen
that Her Majesty should not allow Sir Robert Peel to propose any new Grants in Parliament,
as they (the Whigs) could not well oppose it, and this being felt, the whole unpopularity would
fall upon the Queen's person. An idea existed that the Tories were always jobbing with money,
and the grant for the building the new stables at Windsor had shown how suspicious people were.

Lord John did not speak clearly out, but on consultation with Lord Melbourne the Queen thought
Lord John must have alluded to Peel having spoken equivocally at the end of his speech relative
to the Prince's annuity, and would now probably propose a further grant, and would say the
time was now come in order to stand well with the Queen. The Queen replied that she would never
allow such a thing to be proposed and that it would be a disgrace to owe any favour to that Party.

The only answer the Prince gave was that these views were very agreeable for him.

[Pageheading: A CARRIAGE ACCIDENT]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 24th August 1841.

... Our accident[65] was not so very bad, and considering that it is the very first that had
happened in the course of five summers, with so many carriages and horses, one cannot be surprised.
I beg leave also to say that I can get out very quick. I am very thankful that you agree to
the couriers. I am a little sorry that you have put poor Mamma off so late, as she is very
much hurt at it, I fear, by what I hear, and accuses me of it. But that will, I trust, be forgiven.
You don't say that you sympathise with me in my present heavy trial,[66] the heaviest I have
ever had to endure, and which will be a sad heartbreaking to me--but I know you do feel for
me. I am quiet and prepared, but still I fell very sad, and God knows! very wretched at times,
for myself and my country, that such a change must take place. But God in His mercy will support
and guide me through all. Yet I feel that my constant headaches are caused by annoyance and
vexation!

Adieu, dearest Uncle! God bless you! Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 65: The Queen had driven to Virginia Water to see
    Prince Albert's beagles hunting, when owing to the hounds
    running between the horses' legs and frightening them, a pony
    phaeton and four containing Lord Erroll, Lady Ida Hay, and
    Miss Cavendish was upset. One of the postillions was (not
    dangerously) hurt.]

    [Footnote 66: I.e., Lord Melbourne being succeeded by Sir
    Robert Peel as Prime Minister.]

[Pageheading: DEBATE ON THE ADDRESS]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

SOUTH STREET, 24th August 1841.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. We have just delivered the Speech
in the House of Lords, and the debate will commence at five o'clock. We understand that the
amendment is to be a repetition of the motion of want of confidence, which Sir Robert Peel
made in the House of Commons before the dissolution, and nearly in the same terms. It is to
be moved by Lord Ripon[67] in the House of Lords, and by Mr. Stuart Wortley[68] in the House
of Commons. It is understood to be their intention to avoid, as much as possible, debate upon
the Corn Laws, and upon the other topics in the Speech, and to place the question entirely
upon the result of the General Election and the proof which that affords that the Ministry
does not possess the confidence of the country. Lord Melbourne thinks that it will not be found
easy to repress debate in the House of Commons, but would not be surprised if the course which
it is intended to pursue should much shorten it in the House of Lords. Lord Melbourne will
write again to your Majesty after the debate, and will certainly come down to-morrow, unless
anything unexpected should occur to prevent him.

It will be necessary to receive the address of the Convocation in some manner or another. Lord
Melbourne will write confidentially to the Archbishop[69] to learn how it may be received in
the quietest manner and with the least trouble. Lord Melbourne has little doubt that the Lords
and Commons will send their addresses by the officers of the Household.

Lord Melbourne entreats your Majesty to pick up your spirits.

    [Footnote 67: The first Earl (1782-1859) who had, as Lord
    Goderich, been Premier in 1827-1828.]

    [Footnote 68: J. Stuart Wortley (1801-1855), M.P. for the West
    Riding, afterwards the second Lord Wharncliffe.]

    [Footnote 69: Dr Howley.]

[Pageheading: COBDEN'S SPEECH]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria. No one of the Tory leaders, except Sir Robert Peel, appears
disposed to speak.

Should the Address be voted to-night, and reported to-morrow, it may be presented to your Majesty
by Lord Marcus Hill[71] on Saturday.

But should the debate be continued over this night, the report of the Address can hardly take
place till Monday. This, however, is not very likely.

    [Footnote 70: Cobden had just been elected for the first time
    for Stockport.]

    [Footnote 71: Son of Lord Downshire, and M.P. for Evesham;
    afterwards (under a special remainder) the third Lord Sandys.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Upon his arrival he found that there was no precedent
of the House meeting again after an Address, without receiving an answer from the Crown. Lord
Erroll therefore delivered the answer in the terms which had been submitted by Lord Melbourne
to your Majesty, and it appeared to give satisfaction. The debate will probably terminate in
the House of Commons to-night; at the same time it may not. If it does we must place our resignation
in your Majesty's hands on Saturday, and it must be announced to the Houses of Parliament on
Monday. Your Majesty will then do well not to delay sending for some other person beyond Tuesday.
Lord Melbourne will write to your Majesty more fully upon all these subjects to-morrow, when
he will know the result of the night's debate, and be able more surely to point out the course
of events.

Lord Melbourne received the Eau-de-Cologne, and returns your Majesty many thanks for it.

Lord Melbourne understands that the Duke of Wellington is, in fact, very desirous of having
the Foreign Seals,[72] and that if your Majesty feels any preference for him in that department
the slightest intimation of your Majesty's wish in that respect will fix him in his desire
to have it. The Address will be carried to Windsor by Lord Marcus Hill this evening if then ready.

Lord John Russell takes this opportunity of closing his Reports again, to express to your Majesty
his deep sense of your Majesty's goodness towards him. It is his fervent prayer that your Majesty
may enjoy a long and happy reign.

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

SOUTH STREET, 28th August 1841.

... Your Majesty must, of course, consider us as having tendered our resignations immediately
after the vote of last night, and your Majesty will probably think it right to request us to
continue to hold our offices and transact the current business until our successors are appointed.

Lord Melbourne will have the honour of writing again to your Majesty in the course of the day.

[Pageheading: THE RESIGNATION]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 28th August 1841.

... Albert will not stay for the dinner, and I expect him back at about eleven to-night. He
went at half-past eleven this morning. It is the first time that we have ever been separated
for so long since our marriage, and I am quite melancholy about it.

You will forgive me if I mention it to you, but I understand that the Queen Dowager has been
somewhat offended at your not taking leave of her when she came here, and at your not answering
her, when she wrote to you. Perhaps you would write to her and soften and smoothen matters.
She did not the least expect you to come to her. Lord Melbourne feels certain that your Majesty's
sense and firmness will enable your Majesty to bear up under this which your Majesty names
a severe trial. The kindness of your Majesty's expressions emboldens Lord Melbourne to say
that he also feels deeply the pain of separation from a service, which has now for four years
and more been no less his pleasure than his pride.

Lord Melbourne would have been anxious to have waited upon your Majesty to-day, but he feels
that his presence is in some degree material at a meeting, at which not only the present situation
of your Majesty's servants, but also their future conduct and prospects, will be considered.

Lord Melbourne is sure that your Majesty will at once perceive that it would not have a good
appearance if he were to return to Windsor immediately after having announced his resignation
to the House of Lords on Monday next.

It is right that there should be no appearance of delay or of unwillingness to carry into effect
the wishes of both Houses of Parliament, and, therefore, your Majesty will forgive Lord Melbourne
if he suggests that it would be well if your Majesty could make up your mind to appoint Sir
R. Peel on Monday next, so that there might be as little delay as possible in the formation
of a new Government. On all accounts, and particularly on account of the lateness of the Season,
it is desirable that this should be done as speedily as possible.

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. He knows well what that feeling of working under the
impression of trouble and annoyance is, but if the first gloom is brushed away, confidence
and hope and spirits return, and things begin to appear more cheerful. Lord Melbourne is much
obliged by your Majesty's enquiries. He slept well, but waked early, which he always does now,
and which is a sure sign of anxiety of mind.

Lord Melbourne will be ready to attend your Majesty at any time.

[Pageheading: DELAY UNDESIRABLE]

[Pageheading: PARTING WITH LORD MELBOURNE]

Memorandum by Mr Anson.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 29th August 1841.

Lord Melbourne is to take his farewell audience of the Queen to-morrow, and Her Majesty has
appointed Sir Robert Peel to come down here at three o'clock to-morrow.

I went with Lord Melbourne from luncheon to his room. He seemed in tolerable spirits, though
somewhat sad when he alluded to taking leave of the Queen. He said he was anxious that Her
Majesty should lose no time in writing to appoint Sir Robert Peel to be here to-morrow, for
though he was not afraid of Sir Robert taking affront, his Party would be too ready to construe
any delay on the Queen's part into a slight. He said the Prince had been with him just before,
and amongst other things had urged him to continue to him and to the Queen his advice and assistance,
especially on measures affecting their private concerns and family concerns; he told Lord Melbourne
it was on these points that he felt Lord Melbourne's advice had been peculiarly sound, and
there was no reason why this should not be continued, and any communication might be made through
me. Lord Melbourne said that the Prince had also entered upon the subject of the Baroness,
and expressed the constant state of annoyance he was kept in by her interference. Lord Melbourne
said to me: "It will be far more difficult to remove her after the change of Government than
now, because if pressed to do it by a Tory Minister, the Queen's prejudice would be immediately
aroused." I admitted this, but said that though the Prince felt that if he pressed the point
against the Baroness remaining, he should be able to carry it, still his good feeling and affection
for the Queen prevented him from pressing what he knew would be painful, and what could not
be carried without an exciting scene; he must remain on his guard, and patiently abide the
result. People were beginning much better to understand that lady's character, and time must
surely work its own ends.

On my being sent for by the Prince, Lord Melbourne said, "I shall see you again before I take
my leave." I was much affected by the earnestness with which this was said, and said I would
certainly be with him before he saw the Queen to-morrow.

The Prince said that Her Majesty was cheerful and in good spirits, and the only part of the
approaching scene which he dreaded was the farewell with Lord Melbourne. The Queen had, however,
been much relieved by the Prince arranging for her hearing from Lord Melbourne whenever she
wished it.

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Lord Melbourne will ever treasure them as remembrances
of your Majesty's kindness and regard, which he prizes beyond measure.

They will, as your Majesty says, certainly recall to recollection a melancholy day, but still
Lord Melbourne hopes and trusts that with the divine blessing it will hereafter be looked back
upon with less grief and bitterness of feeling, than it must be regarded at present.

[Pageheading: THE PRINCE'S POSITION]

Memorandum by Mr Anson.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 30th August 1841.

Directly I got here this morning the Prince sent for me, and said he had been made somewhat
uneasy by a conversation he had just had with the Queen. Her Majesty said that after the manner
in which the Tories had treated the Prince (relative to annuity) he ought now to keep them
at a distance. She said they would try to flatter him, and would all come to see him; this
he should resist, and should refuse to see them, at all events for some time.

The Prince wished me to mention this to Lord Melbourne when I went to take leave of him, and
to urge Lord Melbourne to set this right with the Queen by his advice before he parted with
the Queen, reminding him that his view had always been that from this moment the Prince would
take up a new position, and that the Queen, no longer having Lord Melbourne to resort to in
case of need, must from this moment consult and advise with the Prince. That Lord Melbourne
should urge the Queen to have no scruple in employing the Prince, and showing that unless a
proper understanding existed from the first, he in attempting to do good would be easily misrepresented.

I found Lord Melbourne alone in his dressing-room and put this case before him. He said he
had always thought that when he left the service of the Queen the Prince would of necessity
be brought forward, and must render great assistance to the Queen; and the Queen's confidence
in his judgment having so much increased, this consequence was the more natural. The Prince
must, however, be very cautious at first, and in a little time he would fall into it. He must
be very careful not to alarm the Queen, by Her Majesty for an instant supposing that the Prince
was carrying on business with Peel without her cognisance.

If it were possible for any one to advise Peel, he would recommend that he should write fully
to Her Majesty, and elementarily, as Her Majesty always liked to have full knowledge upon everything
which was going on. He would advise the Queen to be cautious in giving a verbal decision, that
she should not allow herself to be driven into a corner, and forced to decide where she felt
her mind was not made up and required reflection.

Peel should be very careful that intelligence came first from him direct. King William was
very particular upon this point, so was the Queen.

I asked Lord Melbourne if he had considered the future position of himself with the Queen,
and also of Peel with the Queen. He said he owned he had not and would avoid entering into
any discussion--he felt sure that he should be regarded with extreme jealousy, not so much
by Peel as by the party. He would be looked upon as Lord Bute had been in his relation to George
III.,--always suspected of secret intercourse and intrigue. He would make me the medium of
any written communication.

With regard to Peel's position with the Queen, he thought that circumstances must make it.
He thought the Queen must see him oftener than King William did him, as he thought the present
state of things would require more frequent intercourse. The late King used to see him once
a week after the Levée, seldom oftener; all the rest of the business was transacted by correspondence,
but this mode, though it had its merits in some respect, very much impeded the public business.

The less personal objections the Queen took to any one the better, as any such expression is
sure to come out and a personal enemy is made. It was also to be recollected that Peel was
in a very different position now, backed by a large majority, to when the other overture was
made. He had the power now to extort what he pleased, and he fancied he saw the blank faces
of the heads of the Party when Peel told them that he had agreed to the dismissal or resignation
of only three of the Queen's ladies.

Lord Melbourne said the Queen was afraid she never could be at ease with Peel, because his
manner was so embarrassed, and that conveyed embarrassment also to her, which it would be very
difficult to get over.

The Queen took leave of Lord Melbourne to-day. Her Majesty was much affected, but soon recovered
her calmness.

Peel had his first audience at half-past three o'clock.

[Pageheading: MELBOURNE'S OPINION OF THE PRINCE]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

30th August 1841 (6 P.M.).

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. The announcement has been made in
both Houses of Parliament. A few words were said by Lord Stanley[73] in the House of Commons,
and nothing in the House of Lords.

Lord Melbourne cannot satisfy himself without again stating to your Majesty in writing what
he had the honour of saying to your Majesty respecting his Royal Highness the Prince. Lord
Melbourne feels certain that your Majesty cannot do better than have recourse to it, whenever
it is needed, and rely upon it with confidence.

Lord Melbourne will be anxious to hear from your Majesty as to what has passed with Sir R.
Peel. Your Majesty will, Lord Melbourne is sure, feel that the same general secrecy which your
Majesty has always observed respecting public affairs is more particularly necessary at the
present moment.

Lord Melbourne earnestly hopes that your Majesty is well and composed, and with the most anxious
wishes for your Majesty's welfare and happiness, remains ever your Majesty's most devoted and
attached Servant, and he trusts that he may add, without presumption, your Majesty's faithful
and affectionate Friend.

    [Footnote 73: Who now became Colonial Secretary.]

[Pageheading: THE HOUSEHOLD]

Memorandum: Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

Your Majesty might say, if to your Majesty it seems good, that in consequence of the Addresses
voted by both Houses of Parliament, your Majesty's servants had tendered their resignations,
and that for the same reason your Majesty had accepted those resignations. That your Majesty's
present servants possessed your Majesty's confidence, and that you only parted with them in
deference to the opinion of Parliament.

That your Majesty naturally had recourse to Sir Robert Peel as possessing the confidence of
the great Party which constitutes the majority of both Houses, and that you were prepared to
empower him to form an Administration.

That your Majesty did not conceive that the giving him this commission of itself empowered
him to advise the removal of the officers of your Majesty's Household; that you conceive that
all that the Constitution required was that the Sovereign's Household should support the Sovereign's
Ministers; but that you were prepared to place at his disposal, and to take his advice upon
all the offices of the Household at present filled by members of either House of Parliament,
with the exception of those whom your Majesty might think proper to name, i.e., Lord Byron[74]--and
it should be understood that this exception was not to extend further than to him.

If Sir Robert Peel should wish that in case of Lord Byron's remaining it should be considered
as a fresh appointment made by his advice, this wish might properly be acceded to.

The Ladies.--If any difficulty should arise it may be asked to be stated in writing, and reserved
for consideration. But it is of great importance that Sir Robert Peel should return to London
with full power to form an Administration. Such must be the final result, and the more readily
and graciously it is acquiesced in the better.

Your Majesty must take care not to be driven to the wall, and to be put into a situation in
which it is necessary to Aye or No. No positive objection should be taken either to men or
measures.

It must be recollected that at the time of the negotiation in 1839 Lord Melbourne and Lord
John Russell were still at the head of a majority in the House of Commons. This is not the
case now.

    [Footnote 74: George Anson, seventh Lord Byron (1789-1868),
    cousin and successor of the poet.]

[Pageheading: THE NEW CABINET]

THE CABINET OF LORD MELBOURNE,

As it stood in September 1841.

  First Lord of the Treasury             VISCOUNT MELBOURNE.

  Lord Chancellor                        LORD (afterwards Earl of)
                                                COTTENHAM.
  Chancellor of the Exchequer            Mr FRANCIS BARING
                                           (afterwards Lord Northbrook).
  Lord President of the Council          MARQUIS OF LANSDOWNE.
  Lord Privy Seal                        EARL OF CLARENDON.
  Home Secretary                         MARQUIS OF NORMANBY.
  Foreign Secretary                      VISCOUNT PALMERSTON.
  Colonial Secretary                     LORD JOHN (afterwards
                                                      Earl) RUSSELL.
  First Lord of the Admiralty            EARL OF MINTO.
  President of the Board of Control      Sir JOHN CAM HOBHOUSE
                                           (afterwards Lord Broughton).
  Secretary at War                       Mr T. B. (afterwards
                                                      Lord) MACAULAY.
  President of the Board of Trade        Mr LABOUCHERE (afterwards
                                                        Lord Taunton).
  Chief Secretary for Ireland            VISCOUNT MORPETH
                                          (afterwards Earl of Carlisle).
  First Commissioner of Land Revenue     VISCOUNT DUNCANNON
                                          (afterwards Earl of Bessborough).
  Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster   Sir GEORGE GREY.

THE CABINET OF SIR ROBERT PEEL,[75]

As formed in September 1841.

  First Lord of the Treasury             Sir ROBERT PEEL.
  Lord Chancellor                        LORD LYNDHURST.
  Chancellor of the Exchequer            Mr. H. GOULBURN.
  (Without Office)                       DUKE OF WELLINGTON.
  Lord President of the Council          LORD WHARNCLIFFE.
  Lord Privy Seal                        DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM.
  Home Secretary                         Sir JAMES GRAHAM.
  Foreign Secretary                      EARL OF ABERDEEN.
  Colonial Secretary                     LORD STANLEY
                                           (afterwards Earl of Derby).
  First Lord of the Admiralty            EARL OF HADDINGTON.
  President of the Board of Control      LORD (afterwards Earl of)
                                               ELLENBOROUGH
  Secretary at War                       Sir HENRY (afterwards
                                            Viscount) HARDINGE.
  President of the Board of Trade        EARL OF RIPON.
  Paymaster-General.                     Sir EDWARD KNATCHBULL.

    [Footnote 75: The Peel Ministry of 1841 was unique in
    containing three ex-Premiers: Sir Robert Peel himself, the
    Earl of Ripon, and the Duke of Wellington, who succeeded Lord
    Goderich as Premier in 1828. Ripon's career was a curious one;
    he was a singularly ineffective Prime Minister, and indeed did
    not, during the course of his Ministry (August 1827-January
    1828), ever have to meet Parliament. He was disappointed
    at not being invited to join the Wellington Ministry,
    subsequently joined the Reform Ministry of Lord Grey, but
    followed Lord Stanley, Sir James Graham, and the Duke of
    Richmond out of it. In August 1841 he moved the vote of want
    of confidence in the Melbourne Ministry, and became President
    of the Board of Trade in Peel's Government. In 1846 it fell to
    him, when President of the Board of Control, to move the Corn
    Law Repeal Bill in the Lords.

    The only later instance of an ex-Premier accepting a
    subordinate office was in the case of Lord John Russell, who,
    in 1852, took the Foreign Office under Aberdeen, subsequently
    vacating the office and sitting in the Cabinet without office.
    In June 1854, he became Lord President of the Council, and
    left the Ministry when it was menaced by Roebuck's motion.
    When Lord Palmerston formed a Ministry in 1855, Lord John,
    after an interval, became Colonial Secretary, again resigning
    in five months. Finally, in 1859, he went back to the Foreign
    Office, where he remained until he succeeded Palmerston as
    Premier in 1865.

    The Government also contained three future Premiers, Aberdeen,
    Stanley, and Gladstone.]

[Pageheading: INTERVIEW WITH PEEL]

[Pageheading: HOUSEHOLD APPOINTMENTS]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S DISTRESS]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

WINDSOR CASTLE 30th August 1841.

... The first interview with Sir Robert Peel has gone off well, and only lasted twenty minutes;
and he sends the Queen to-morrow, in writing, the proposed arrangements, and will only come
down on Wednesday morning. He first wished to come to-morrow, but on the Queen's saying that
he need not to do that, but might send it and only come down Wednesday, he thought the Queen
might prefer having it to consider a little, which she said she certainly should, though she
meant no want of confidence. The Queen, in the first instance, stated that she concluded he
was prepared for her sending for him, and then stated exactly what Lord Melbourne wrote, viz.,
the resignation having taken place in consequence of the Addresses--the Queen's great regret
at parting with her present Ministers--the confidence she had in them, and her only acceding
in consequence of the Addresses in Parliament, and then that consequently she looked to him
(Sir Robert Peel) as possessing the confidence of both Houses of Parliament to form an Administration.
He made many protestations of his sorrow, at what must give pain to the Queen (as she said
to him it did), but of course said he accepted the task. The Duke of Wellington's health too
uncertain, and himself too prone to sleep coming over him--as Peel expressed it--to admit of
his taking an office in which he would have much to do, but to be in the Cabinet, which the
Queen expressed her wish he should. He named Lord De Grey[76] as Lord Lieutenant of Ireland,
and Lord Eliot[77] as Secretary for Ireland, who, he said, were both moderate people. The Queen
said she gave up to him the officers of State and those of her Household who were in Parliament,
and he then asked if Lord Liverpool would be agreeable as Lord Steward (the Queen said he would),
and if she would object to Lord Jersey as Master of the Horse (she said she would not), as
she believed he understood it perfectly. He said he was so anxious to do everything which could
be agreeable to the Queen, that he wished her to name whom she should like as Lord Chamberlain;
she said he might suggest some one, but as he would not, and pressed the Queen to name whoever
she pleased, she said she should like the Duke of Rutland, and he said he would certainly name
it to him. The Queen said that Lord Melbourne had always been very particular to name no one
who might be disagreeable to her in the Household, and Sir R. Peel said he felt this, and should
be most anxious to do what could be agreeable to me and for my comfort, and that he would even
sacrifice any advantage to this. The Queen mentioned the three Ladies' resignation, and her
wish not to fill up the three Ladies' places immediately. She mentioned Lady Byron,[78] to
which he agreed immediately, and then said, as I had alluded to those communications, he hoped
that he had been understood respecting the other appointments (meaning the Ladies), that provided
I chose some who had a leaning towards the politics of the Administration, I might take any
I liked, and that he quite understood that I should notify it to them. The Queen said this
was her rule, and that she wished to choose moderate people who should not have scruples to
resign in case another Administration should come in, as changing was disagreeable to her.
Here it ended, and so far well. He was very anxious the Queen should understand how anxious
he was to do everything which was agreeable to the Queen. The Queen wishes to know if Lord
Melbourne thinks she should name the Duchess of Buccleuch Mistress of the Robes, on Wednesday,
and if she shall ask Sir Robert to sound the Duchess, or some one else, and then write to appoint
her? She thinks of proposing Lady de la Warr and Lady Abercorn by and by as the two Ladies,
but these she will sound herself through other people, or Lady Canning, or Lady Rosslyn, in
case these others should not take it. She should say she meant to sound those, and no more.
What the Queen felt when she parted from her dear, kind friend, Lord Melbourne, is better imagined
than described; she was dreadfully affected for some time after, but is calm now. It is very,
very sad; and she cannot quite believe it yet. The Prince felt it very, very much too, and
really the Queen cannot say how kind and affectionate he is to her, and how anxious to do everything
to lighten this heavy trial; he was quite affected at this sad parting. We do, and shall, miss
you so dreadfully; Lord Melbourne will easily understand what a change it is, after these four
years when she had the happiness of having Lord Melbourne always about her. But it will not
be so long till we meet again. Happier and brighter times will come again. We anxiously hope
Lord Melbourne is well, and got up well and safe. The Queen trusts he will take care of his
valuable health, now more than ever.

    [Footnote 76: Thomas, Earl de Grey (1781-1859); he was the
    elder brother of Lord Ripon, who had been previously known
    as Mr Robinson and Viscount Goderich, and whose son, besides
    inheriting his father's and uncle's honours, was created
    Marquis of Ripon.]

    [Footnote 77: Afterwards third Earl of St Germans.]

    [Footnote 78: Lady Byron had been Miss Elizabeth
    Chandos-Pole.]

Memorandum by Mr Anson.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 31st August 1841.

I was sent up to Town to-day to see Lord Melbourne and Sir Robert Peel. I found Lord Melbourne
as usual up in his bedroom. He had received the account of Her Majesty's first interview with
Peel, which he thought very satisfactory. Sir Robert very much regretted that he should have
been the instrument of obliging Her Majesty to change her Government. The Queen had said to
Sir Robert that though she did not conceive the Minister could demand any of the Household
appointments, still it was Her Majesty's intention to give up to him the great offices of State,
and all other places in the Household filled by people in Parliament. He was to send his proposed
list for offices the next day and be at Windsor the morning after that. Lord Melbourne had
written to the Queen the night before, stating his opinion of the Prince--that he had great
discretion, temper, and judgment, and that he considered him to be well worthy of Her Majesty's
confidence, and that now was the time for Her Majesty to feel comfort and assistance from giving
him her fullest confidence. He had just received the Queen's answer to this, saying what "pleasure
it had given the Queen to receive his letter with this expression of his opinion of her beloved
husband, and that what he said could not fail to increase the confidence which she already
felt in him. He was indeed a great comfort to her in this trying moment; at times she was very
low indeed though she strove to bear up. It would always be a satisfaction to her to feel secure
of Lord Melbourne's faithful and affectionate friendship to her and the Prince. She hoped after
a time to see him here again, and it would always be a pleasure to her to hear from him frequently."

From South Steet I went to Sir Robert Peel's. I told him I came to speak to him about Lord
Exeter, whom the Prince proposed to make the head of his Household, should it not interfere
with any of Sir Robert's arrangements for the Queen. Sir Robert said he was so good a man and
one that he felt sure the Prince would like, and he therefore thought he had better propose
the situation to him at once.

[Pageheading: MELBOURNE'S OFFICIAL FAREWELL]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

SOUTH STREET, 31st August 1841.

Lord Melbourne had the pleasure of receiving last night both your Majesty's letters, the one
dated four o'clock, and written immediately after your Majesty's interview with Sir R. Peel,
the other dated half-past nine. Lord Melbourne thanks your Majesty much for them both, and
for the expressions of kindness contained in them. Lord Melbourne will ever consider the time
during which your Majesty is good enough to think that he has been of service to your Majesty
the proudest as well as the happiest part of his life.

Lord Melbourne has read with great care your Majesty's very clear and full account of what
passed. It appears to Lord Melbourne that nothing could be better. Sir Robert Peel seems to
have been anxious to act with the utmost respect and consideration for your Majesty, and your
Majesty most properly and wisely met him half-way. In the spirit in which the negotiation has
been commenced I see the prospect of a termination of it, which will be not so unsatisfactory
to your Majesty as your Majesty anticipated, and not, Lord Melbourne trusts, disadvantageous
to the country....

Lord Melbourne concludes with the most anxious wishes for your Majesty's happiness and with
expressing a great admiration of the firmness, prudence, and good sense with which your Majesty
has conducted yourself.

Lord Melbourne begs to be remembered to His Royal Highness most respectfully, most affectionately.

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Recollect how precious is your Majesty's health, and
how much health depends upon tranquillity of mind....

Lord Melbourne will either write to Sir Francis Chantrey[79] to-morrow morning, or call upon
him and settle without further delay about the Bust. There is no end of subscriptions to Monuments,
but perhaps your Majesty will do well to subscribe to Sir David Wilkie's.[80]

Your Majesty is very good about the blue Ribband, but Lord Melbourne is certain that upon the
whole, it is better for his own position and character that he should not have it.

    [Footnote 79: Sir Francis Chantrey, the sculptor, born in
    1781, died on 25th November 1841.]

    [Footnote 80: Sir David Wilkie, Painter-in-Ordinary to the
    Queen, had died on 1st June, aged fifty-six.]

[Pageheading: PEEL'S RECEPTION]

The Earl of Clarendon[81] to Viscount Melbourne.[82]

GROSVENOR CRESCENT, 31st August 1841.

MY DEAR MELBOURNE,--You may like to know that Peel was perfectly satisfied with his reception
yesterday, and does full justice to the Queen's declaration of her regret at parting with her
Ministers, which he said it was quite natural she should feel, and quite right she should express.
This I know from undoubted authority, and from a person who came to enquire of me whether I
could tell what impression Peel had produced upon the Queen, which of course I could not.

He assured the Queen that he had had no communication with his friends, and was not prepared
to submit an Administration for her approval, but he is to see her again to-morrow morning.

The only appointment yet settled is De Grey to Ireland; he was very unwilling, but Peel insisted.
Yours sincerely,

CLARENDON.

    [Footnote 81: The retiring Lord Privy Seal.]

    [Footnote 82: Letter forwarded by Lord Melbourne to the
    Queen.]

[Pageheading: FAREWELL AUDIENCES]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

CARLTON TERRACE, 31st August 1841.

... Viscount Palmerston begs to be allowed to tender to your Majesty the grateful thanks of
himself and of Viscountess Palmerston for your Majesty's gracious expressions towards them.
Viscount Palmerston sees with deep regret the termination of those duties in your Majesty's
service, in the course of which he has had the honour of experiencing from your Majesty so
much condescending personal kindness, and such flattering official confidence; and it affords
him the highest gratification to have obtained your Majesty's approbation.

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Your Majesty should desire Sir Robert Peel to give notice
to all those who have insignia of office, such as Seals, Wands, to give up, to attend at Claremont
on Friday; but of course he will do this of himself. Your Majesty will have much to go through
upon that day and much that is painful. Your Majesty should spare yourself and be spared as
much as possible. It will not be necessary for Lord Melbourne to go down. He may be considered
as having resigned at the Audience which he had of your Majesty at Windsor, and Lord Melbourne
has ventured to tell Lord Lansdowne that he thinks he need not do so either, and that your
Majesty will excuse his attendance. Lord Melbourne need say nothing about the Secretaries of
State, with all of whom your Majesty is so well acquainted; but perhaps your Majesty will not
omit to thank Mr Baring[83] cordially for his services. He is a thoroughly honest man and an
able public servant. If your Majesty could say to the Lord Chancellor,[84] "that you part with
him with much sorrow; that you are sensible that much of the strength of the late Administration
was derived from the manner in which he discharged the duties of his office, and that you consider
his retirement a great and serious loss to the country," it would certainly be no more than
he deserves.

It is thought by some who know him here that the Duke of Rutland will be so extremely pleased
with the offer being made, and that by your Majesty yourself, that he will accept it; but he
is a year older than Lord Melbourne, and therefore hardly fit for any very active duty....

The appointment of Colonel Arbuthnot will of course be very agreeable to the Duke of Wellington.
The Arbuthnots are quiet, demure people before others; but they are not without depth of purpose,
and they are very bitter at bottom.

Your Majesty will not forget the two Knights for Mr de la Beche[85] and Major Monro.

Lord Melbourne begins to hope that this affair will be got through more satisfactorily and
with less annoyance than your Majesty anticipated. As long as your Majesty is desirous of receiving
his communications, he will be always most careful to give your Majesty his impartial opinion
and the best advice which he has to offer. His most fervent prayer will always be for your
Majesty's welfare and happiness. Lord Melbourne never doubted that it would be so, but is glad
to learn from your Majesty the support and consolation which your Majesty finds in the advice
and affection of the Prince.

This is the last letter which Lord Melbourne will send in a box. He will to-morrow morning
return his keys to the Foreign Office, and after that your Majesty will be good enough to send
the letters, with which you may honour Lord Melbourne, through Mr Anson.

Lord Melbourne most anxiously wishes your Majesty every blessing.

[Pageheading: COUNCIL AT CLAREMONT]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

SOUTH STREET, 3rd September 1841.

Lord Melbourne earnestly hopes that your Majesty is well after this trying day.[86] Lord Melbourne
has thought and felt for your Majesty all this morning. But now that the matter is settled
it will be necessary that your Majesty should take a calm and composed view of the whole situation,
which Lord Melbourne trusts that your Majesty will find by no means unsatisfactory.

And first with respect to public affairs. In the concerns of a great nation like this there
will always be some difficulties and entanglements, but upon the whole the present state is
good and the prospect is good for the future. There is no reason to expect that Sir Robert
Peel will either be desirous or be able to take a very different course from that which has
been taken by your Majesty's late servants, and some difficulties will certainly be removed,
and some obstacles smoothed, by the change which has lately taken place.

With respect to the effect which will be produced upon the comfort of your Majesty's private
life, it would be idle in Lord Melbourne, after what your Majesty has said, to doubt of the
manner in which your Majesty will feel the change, which must take place in your Majesty, to
long accustomed habits and relations. But your Majesty may rest assured of Lord Melbourne's
devoted and disinterested attachment to your Majesty, and that he will devote himself to giving
to your Majesty such information and advice as may be serviceable to your Majesty with the
sole view of promoting your Majesty's public interests and private happiness.

Lord Melbourne hopes, and indeed ventures to expect, that your Majesty, upon reflection and
consideration of the real state of circumstances, will recover your spirits, and Lord Melbourne
has himself great satisfaction in thinking upon the consideration of the advice which he has
given, that it has not tended to impair your Majesty's influence and authority, but, on the
contrary, to secure to your Majesty the affection, attachment, approbation, and support of
all parties.

In the course of this correspondence Lord Melbourne has thought it his duty to your Majesty
to express himself with great freedom upon the characters of many individuals, whose names
have come under consideration, but Lord Melbourne thinks it right to say that he may have spoken
upon insufficient grounds, that he may have been mistaken, and that the persons in question
may turn out to be far better than he has been induced to represent them.

    [Footnote 86: A Council had been held at Claremont for the
    outgoing Ministers to give up their Seals of Office, which
    were bestowed upon Sir Robert Peel and the incoming Cabinet.]

[Pageheading: MELBOURNE ON THE NEW MINISTRY]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. He was most happy to hear yesterday the best account
of everything that had taken place at Claremont. Everybody praised, in the highest manner,
the dignity, propriety, and kindness of your Majesty's deportment, and if it can be done without
anything of deceit or dissimulation, it is well to take advantage of the powers and qualities
which have been given, and which are so well calculated to gain a fair and powerful influence
over the minds and feelings of others. Your Majesty may depend upon it, that the impression
made upon the minds of all who were present yesterday, is most favourable. Of course, with
persons in new and rather awkward situations, some of whom had never been in high office before,
all of whom had not been so now for some years, there was a good deal of embarrassment and
mistakes. Forms which are only gone through at long intervals of time, and not every day, are
necessarily forgotten, and when they are required nobody knows them. But Lord Melbourne cannot
really think that they looked cross; most probably they did look shy and embarrassed. Strange
faces are apt to give the idea of ill humour....

Lord Melbourne anxiously hopes that your Majesty is well and happy to-day.

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

Lord Melbourne encloses the exact names of the two gentlemen to whom Knighthood has been promised
by your Majesty....

Your Majesty is very good, very good indeed, to think of doing what your Majesty mentions for
Fanny; but Lord Melbourne fears that it would hardly suit with their present situation, or
with the comfort of their domestic life. But Lord Melbourne mentioned the matter yesterday
to his sister, and he encloses the letter which she has written to him this morning, after
reflecting upon the subject. By that letter your Majesty will perceive that Jocelyn is not
so much in debt, as Lord Melbourne's letter had led your Majesty to suppose....

Lord B---- is a very old friend of Lord Melbourne's. They were at Eton together, and intimate
there. He is a gentlemanly man and a good man, but not very agreeable. Few of the P----s are,
and very bitter in politics; but still Lord Melbourne is glad, for old acquaintance' sake,
that your Majesty has taken him. Lord Melbourne must again repeat that when he writes with
so much freedom about individual characters, it is only to put your Majesty in possession of
what he knows respecting them, and not with a view of inducing your Majesty to object to their
being appointed....

Might not Fanny have the Bedchamber Woman's place? It would be a help to her, and would not
take her away from home. This only strikes Lord Melbourne as he is writing.

[Pageheading: MELBOURNE ON PEEL]

6th September 1841.

Lord Melbourne wrote the above yesterday, but had no opportunity of sending it, as there was
no post. Lord Melbourne has since seen Lady Palmerston, and finds that his last suggestion
about Fanny will not do.

Lord Melbourne encloses Lady Palmerston's two notes upon the subject, which will explain to
your Majesty what she wishes. But if Jocelyn is himself to get a place, this will be a better
arrangement, and puts an end to all the others.

What Lady Palmerston says about Sir R. Peel is very unjust. There is no shabbiness whatever
in his not coming to a decision upon the factory question.[87]

    [Footnote 87: Lady Palmerston (no doubt in sympathy with Lord
    Ashley) expected some factory legislation to be announced.]

Queen Victoria to the Countess of Gainsborough.[88]

CLAREMONT, 6th September 1841.

MY DEAREST LADY GAINSBOROUGH,--I had the pleasure of receiving your two kind letters of the
24th and 25th ult. yesterday, and thank you much for them. I am so happy that you are really
better....

I hoped that you would be pleased at what you thank me for; you see I did not forget what you
told me once at Windsor when we were out driving, and I assure you that Lord Melbourne was
very anxious to do it. Last week was a most painful, trying one to me, and this separation
from my truly excellent and kind friend Lord Melbourne, most distressing. You will understand
what a change it must be to me. I am, however, so happy in my home, and have such a perfect
angel in the Prince, who has been such a comfort to me, that one must be thankful and grateful
for these blessings, and take these hard trials as lessons sent from above, for our best.

Our little girl makes great progress, and suffers comparatively but very little from her teething.
We came here to be quiet for a few days, as this place is so very private.

The Baroness will write to Lord Gainsborough to say that I wish much you would take Lady Lyttelton's
waiting, which begins on 23rd of November.

The Prince begs to be kindly named to you, and I to Fanny and your brother, and pray believe
me always, dearest Lady Gainsborough, ever yours most affectionately,

VICTORIA R.

Pray thank Fanny for her kind letter.

    [Footnote 88: Formerly, as Lady Barham, a Lady of the
    Bedchamber. Lord Barham had been created Earl of Gainsborough
    in the course of the year (1841).]

[Pageheading: LORD CHAMBERLAIN'S DEPARTMENT]

Queen Victoria to Sir Robert Peel.

7th September 1841.

The Queen wishes that Sir Robert Peel would mention to Lord De la Warr[89] that he should be
very particular in always naming to the Queen any appointment he wishes to make in his department,
and always to take her pleasure upon an appointment before he settles on them; this is a point
upon which the Queen has always laid great stress. This applies in great measure to the appointment
of Physicians and Chaplains, which used to be very badly managed formerly, and who were appointed
in a very careless manner; but since the Queen's accession the Physicians and Chaplains have
been appointed only for merit and abilities, by the Queen herself, which the Queen is certain
Sir Robert Peel will at once see is a far better way, and one which must be of use in every
way. Sir Robert Peel may also tell Lord De la Warr that it is unnecessary for him to appear
in uniform, as the Queen always dispenses with this in the country. This applies also to the
Ministers, who the Queen does not expect or wish should appear in uniform at Councils which
are held in the country. The Queen concludes that it will be necessary to hold a Council some
time next week to swear in some of the new Officers who are not Privy Councillors; but Sir
Robert Peel will be able to tell the Queen when he thinks this will be necessary.

    [Footnote 89: See ante, p 156.(Ch. VIII, 7th May, 1839)]

[Pageheading: DIPLOMATIC APPOINTMENTS]

Queen Victoria to Sir Robert Peel.

8th September 1841.

There is a subject which the Queen wishes to mention to Sir Robert Peel, as she is at present
so little acquainted with Lord Aberdeen; the Queen is very desirous that, if it were possible,
Sir Hamilton Seymour should not be removed from Brussels. The Queen believes that his political
views are not violent either way, and she knows that he is peculiarly agreeable to her Uncle,
which has, therefore, prompted her to write this to Sir Robert Peel. The Queen seizes the same
opportunity to say that she is also very anxious that a moderate and conciliatory person should
be sent to Lisbon, as it is of great importance there.

[Pageheading: THE FRENCH AMBASSADOR]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

CLAREMONT, 8th September 1841.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I begin my letter to-day, for fear I should have no time to write to-morrow.
Your kind letter gave me great pleasure, and I must own your silence on all that was going
on distressed me very much! It has been indeed a sad time for me, and I am still bewildered,
and can't believe that my excellent Lord Melbourne is no longer my Minister, but he will be,
as you say, and has already proved himself, very useful and valuable as my friend out of office.
He writes to me often, and I write to him, and he gives really the fairest and most impartial
advice possible. But after seeing him for four years, with very few exceptions--daily--you
may imagine that I must feel the change; and the longer the time gets since we parted, the
more I feel it. Eleven days was the longest I ever was without seeing him, and this time will
be elapsed on Saturday, so you may imagine what the change must be. I cannot say what a comfort
and support my beloved Angel is to me, and how well and how kindly and properly he behaves.
I cannot resist copying for you what Lord Melbourne wrote to me about Albert, the evening after
we parted; he has already praised him greatly to me, before he took leave of me.

This naturally gave me great pleasure, and made me very proud, as it comes from a person who
is no flatterer, and would not have said it if he did not think so, or feel so. The new Cabinet
you have by this time seen in the papers.

The Household (of which I send you a list) is well constituted--for Tories.

Lord Aberdeen has written to me to say Bourqueney has announced Ste Aulaire[90] as Ambassador.
This is very well, but let me beg you, for decency's sake, to stop his coming immediately;
if even not meant to, it would have the effect of their sending an ambassador the moment the
Government changed, which would be too marked, and most offensive personally to me. Indeed
Guizot behaved very badly about refusing to sign the Slave Trade Treaty[91] which they had
so long ago settled to do; it is unwise and foolish to irritate the late Government who may
so easily come in again; for Palmerston will not forgive nor forget offences, and then France
would be worse off than before, with England. I therefore beg you to stop Ste Aulaire for a
little while, else I shall feel it a great personal offence.

9th.--I have had a letter from Lord Melbourne to-day, who is much gratified by yours to him....
Now adieu! Believe me, always, your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 90: See post, p. 334. (Ch. X, 1st October, 1841)]

    [Footnote 91: A treaty on the subject was signed in London,
    on 20th December, between Great Britain, France, Austria,
    Prussia, and Russia.]

[Pageheading: QUEEN ADELAIDE]

Queen Adelaide to Queen Victoria.

SUDBURY HALL, 8th September 1841.

MY DEAREST NIECE,--I have not ventured to disturb you with a letter since we parted, knowing
how fully your time was employed with business of importance. I cannot any longer now refrain
to enquire after you, after all you have gone through lately, and I must congratulate you with
all my heart on having so well completed your difficult task.

There is but one voice of praise, I hear, of your perfect composure and beautiful conduct during
the trying scenes of last week. It has gratified me more than I can express, for I had fully
expected it of you, and it has made me very happy to find that it has been generally remarked
and has given so much satisfaction. Everybody feels deeply for you, and the devotion and zeal
in your service is redoubled by the interest your trying position has evoked. May our Heavenly
Father support and guide you always as hitherto, is my constant prayer!

I hope that the selection of your Government is to your own satisfaction, and though the change
must have been trying to you, I trust that you will have perfect confidence in the able men
who form your Council. Our beloved late King's anxious wishes to see Wellington and Peel again
at the head of the Administration is now fulfilled. His blessing rests upon you.

Excuse my having touched upon this subject, but I could not keep silent whilst the heart is
so full of earnest good wishes for your and the country's prosperity.

I hope that an article of the newspapers, of the indisposition of your darling child, is not
true, and that she is quite well. God bless and protect her!...

I am much amused with reading your Life by Miss Strickland,[92] which, though full of errors,
is earnest on the whole, and very interesting to me. However, I wish she would correct the
gross errors which otherwise will go down to posterity. She ought to have taken first better
information before she published her work....

With my affectionate love to dear Prince Albert, believe me ever, my dearest Niece, your most
devoted and affectionate Aunt,

ADELAIDE.

    [Footnote 92: Miss Agnes Strickland (1808-1874), who also
    edited Letters of Mary Queen of Scots, etc.]

Memorandum by Mr Anson.

CLAREMONT, 9th September 1841.

The Ministerial arrangements are now nearly completed. Writs for new elections moved last night.

Wrote to Sir Robert, telling him the Queen ought to have heard from him respecting the adjournment
of the House of Commons, instead of seeing it first in the public papers. Told him also of
its being the Queen's wish that a short report of the debates in each House should always be
sent to Her Majesty, from him in the Commons and from the Duke of Wellington in the Lords.

The Queen had a letter to-day from the Queen Dowager, which was kindly meant, but which made
Her Majesty rather angry, complimenting Her Majesty on the good grace with which she had changed
her Government, and saying that the late King's blessing rested upon her for calling the Duke
of Wellington and Peel to her Councils, etc....

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN CRITICISES APPOINTMENTS]

Queen Victoria to Sir Robert Peel.

9th September 1841.

The Queen takes this opportunity of writing to Sir Robert Peel confidentially about another
person: this is about Lord ----. The Queen is strongly of opinion that Lord ---- should not
be employed in any post of importance, as his being so would, in her opinion, be detrimental
to the interests of the country. The Queen wishes Sir Robert to state this to Lord Aberdeen
as her opinion. The Queen is certain that Sir Robert will take care that it should not be known
generally that this is her opinion, for she is always most anxious to avoid anything that might
appear personal towards anybody. The Queen cannot refrain from saying that she cannot quite
approve of Sir Charles Bagot's appointment,[93] as from what she has heard of his qualities
she does not think that they are of a character quite to suit in the arduous and difficult
position in which he will be placed. At the same time the Queen does not mean to object to
his appointment (for she has already formally approved of it), but she feels it her duty to
state frankly and at all times her opinion, as she begs Sir Robert also to do unreservedly
to her. For the future, it appears to the Queen that it would be best in all appointments of
such importance that before a direct communication was entered into with the individual intended
to be proposed, that the Queen should be informed of it, so that she might talk to her Ministers
fully about it; not because it is likely that she would object to the appointment, but merely
that she might have time to be acquainted with the qualities and abilities of the person. The
Queen has stated this thus freely to Sir Robert as she feels certain that he will understand
and appreciate the motives which prompt her to do so. The Queen would wish the Council to be
at two on Tuesday, and she begs Sir Robert would inform her which of the Ministers besides
him will attend.

    [Footnote 93: As Governor-General of Canada.]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

9th September 1841.

... Sir Robert Peel will have the honour of writing to your Majesty to-morrow on the subjects
adverted to in the note which he has just received from your Majesty.

He begs for the present to assure your Majesty that he shall consider every communication which
your Majesty may be pleased to address to him in reference to the personal merits or disqualifications
of individuals as of a most confidential character.

[Pageheading: PEEL APOLOGISES]

Sir Robert Peel to Mr Anson.

WHITEHALL, 10th September 1841.

MY DEAR SIR,--I am sorry if I have failed to make any communication to Her Majesty respecting
public matters, which Her Majesty has been in the habit of receiving, or which she would have
wished to receive.

Having been occupied in the execution of the important trust committed to me not less than
sixteen or eighteen hours of the twenty-four for several days past, it may be that I have made
some omissions in this respect, which under other circumstances I might have avoided. I did
not think Her Majesty would wish to be informed of the issue of writs, necessarily following
the appointments to certain offices, of all which Her Majesty had approved. I certainly ought
to have written to Her Majesty previously to the adjournment of the House of Commons until
Thursday the 16th of September. It was an inadvertent omission on my part, amid the mass of
business which I have had to transact, and I have little doubt that if I had been in Parliament
I should have avoided it.

The circumstances of my having vacated my seat, and of having thus been compelled to leave
to others the duty of proposing the adjournment of the House, was one cause of my inadvertence.

Both the Duke of Wellington and I fully intended to make a report to Her Majesty after the
close of the Parliamentary business of each day, and will do so without fail on the reassembling
of Parliament.

I am, my dear Sir, very faithfully yours,

ROBERT PEEL.

[Pageheading: DIPLOMATIC APPOINTMENTS]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

SOUTH STREET, 10th September 1841.

... Lord Melbourne has no doubt that Sir Robert Peel has the most anxious wish to do everything
that can be agreeable to your Majesty.

Your Majesty should not omit to speak fully and seriously to him upon the disposal of great
appointments. Their Diplomatic Corps, from which Ambassadors and Governors are generally taken,
is the weakest part of their establishment. They have amongst them men of moderate abilities
and of doubtful integrity, who yet have held high offices and have strong claims upon them.
The public service may suffer most essentially by the employment of such men. Lord Melbourne
would say to Peel that "affairs depend more upon the hands to which they are entrusted than
upon any other cause, and that you hope he will well consider those whose appointment to high
and important situations he sanctions, and that he will not suffer claims of connection or
of support to overbalance a due regard for your Majesty's service and the welfare of the country."
Such an expression of your Majesty's opinion may possibly be a support to Sir Robert Peel against
pretensions which he would be otherwise unable to resist; but this is entirely submitted to
your Majesty's judgment, seeing that your Majesty, from an exact knowledge of all that is passing,
must be able to form a much more correct opinion of the propriety and discretion of any step
than Lord Melbourne can do....

Lord Melbourne has a letter from Lord John Russell, rather eager for active opposition; but
Lord Melbourne will write to your Majesty more fully upon these subjects from Woburn.

[Pageheading: CANADA]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

WOBURN ABBEY, 12th September 1841.

Lord Melbourne has this morning received your Majesty's letter of yesterday. Lord Melbourne
entirely agrees with your Majesty about appointments. He knows, as your Majesty does from experience,
that with all the claims which there are to satisfy, with all the prejudices which are to be
encountered, and with all the interests which require to be reconciled, it is impossible to
select the best men, or even always those properly qualified. He is the last man who would
wish that a Minister who has the whole machine of the Government before him should be necessarily
thwarted or interfered with in the selection of those whom he may be desirous to employ. Lord
Melbourne would therefore by no means advise your Majesty to throw difficulty in the way of
the diplomatic arrangements which may be proposed, unless there should be in them anything
manifestly and glaringly bad. The nomination of Lord ---- would have been so, but otherwise
it cannot very greatly signify who is the Ambassador at Vienna, or even at Petersburg or Paris.
Stuart de Rothesay[94] and Strangford[95] are not good men, either of them, but it will be
difficult for Lord Aberdeen to neglect their claims altogether. Heytesbury[96] is an able man,
the best they have. Sir Robert Gordon[97] is an honest man, slow but not illiberal. It would
be well if your Majesty showed Lord Aberdeen that you know these men, and have an opinion upon
the subject of them.

Canada is another matter. It is a most difficult and most hazardous task. There has been recent
rebellion in the country. A new Constitution has lately been imposed upon it by Parliament.
The two Provinces have been united, and the united Province is bordered by a most hostile and
uncontrollable community, the United States of North America. To govern such a country at such
a moment requires a man of great abilities, a man experienced and practical in the management
of popular assemblies.... It is possible that matters may go smoothly there, and that if difficulties
do arise Sir C. Bagot may prove more equal to them than from his general knowledge of his character
Lord Melbourne would judge him to be....

Upon the subject of diplomatic appointments Lord Melbourne has forgotten to make one general
observation which he thinks of importance. Upon a change of Government a very great and sudden
change of all or many of the Ministers at Foreign Courts is an evil and to be avoided, inasmuch
as it induces an idea of a general change of policy, and disturbs everything that has been
settled. George III. always set his face against and discouraged such numerous removals as
tending to shake confidence abroad in the Government of England generally and to give it a
character of uncertainty and instability. It would be well if your Majesty could make this
remark to Lord Aberdeen.

    [Footnote 94: The new Ambassador to St Petersburg.]

    [Footnote 95: Percy, sixth Viscount Strangford (1780-1855),
    formerly Ambassador to Constantinople, whom Byron described as

      "Hibernian Strangford, with thine eyes of blue,
      And boasted locks of red or auburn hue."]

    [Footnote 96: See post, p. 329. (Ch. X, 19th September, 1841)]

    [Footnote 97: The new Ambassador to Vienna.]

[Pageheading: INDIA AND AFGHANISTAN]

[Pageheading: LORD ELLENBOROUGH'S REPORT]

[Pageheading: INDIAN FINANCES]

Lord Ellenborough[98] to Queen Victoria.

Lord Ellenborough presents his most humble duty to your Majesty, and humbly acquaints your
Majesty that having, on the morning after the Council held at Claremont on the third of this
month, requested the clerks of the India Board to put him in possession of the latest information
with respect to the Political, Military, and Financial affairs of India, he ascertained that
on the 4th of June instructions had been addressed to the Governor-General of India in Council
in the following terms:--"We direct that unless circumstances now unknown to us should induce
you to adopt a different course, an adequate force be advanced upon Herat, and that that city
and its dependencies may be occupied by our troops, and dispositions made for annexing them
to the kingdom of Cabul."[99]

The last letters from Calcutta, dated the 9th of July, did not intimate any intention on the
part of the Governor-General in Council of directing any hostile movement against Herat, and
the Governor-General himself having always evinced much reluctance to extend the operations
of the army to that city, it seemed almost probable that the execution of the orders of the
4th of June would have been suspended until further communication could be had with the Home
Authorities.

Nevertheless, in a matter of so much moment it did not appear to be prudent to leave anything
to probability, and at Lord Ellenborough's instance your Majesty's confidential servants came
to the conclusion that no time should be lost in addressing to the Governor-General in Council
a letter in the following terms--such letter being sent, as your Majesty must be aware, not
directly by the Commissioners for the Affairs of India, but, as the Act of Parliament prescribes
in affairs requiring secrecy, by their direction through and in the name of the Secret Committee
of the Court of Directors:--

"From the Secret Committee of the Court of Directors of the East India Company to the Governor-General
of India in Council.

"Her Majesty having been pleased to form a new Administration, we think it expedient that no
step should be taken with respect to Herat which would have the effect of compelling the prosecution
of a specific line of Policy in the countries beyond the Indus, until the new Ministers shall
have had time to take the subject into their deliberate consideration, and to communicate to
us their opinions thereupon.

"We therefore direct that, unless you should have already taken measures in pursuance of our
Instructions of the 4th of June 1841--which commit the honour of your Government to the prosecution
of the line of Policy which we thereby ordered you to adopt, or which could not be arrested
without prejudice to the Public interests, or danger to the troops employed--you will consider
those Instructions to be suspended.

"We shall not fail to communicate to you at an early period our fixed decision upon this subject."

It was not possible to bring this subject before your Majesty's confidential servants before
the afternoon of Saturday the 4th. The mail for India, which should have been despatched on
the 1st, had been detained till Monday the 6th by the direction of your Majesty's late Ministers,
in order to enable your Majesty's present servants to transmit to India and China any orders
which it might seem to them to be expedient to issue forthwith. Further delay would have been
productive of much mercantile inconvenience, and in India probably of much alarm. In this emergency
your Majesty's Ministers thought that your Majesty would be graciously pleased to approve of
their exercising at once the power of directing the immediate transmission to India of these
Instructions.

Your Majesty must have had frequently before you strong proofs of the deep interest taken by
Russia in the affairs of Herat, and your Majesty cannot but be sensible of the difficulty of
maintaining in Europe that good understanding with Russia which has such an important bearing
upon the general peace, if serious differences should exist between your Majesty and that Power
with respect to the States of Central Asia.

But even if the annexation of Herat to the kingdom of Cabul were not to have the effect of
endangering the continuance of the good understanding between your Majesty and Russia, still
your Majesty will not have failed to observe that the further advance of your Majesty's forces
360 miles into the interior of Central Asia for the purpose of effecting that annexation, could
not but render more difficult of accomplishment the original intention of your Majesty, publicly
announced to the world, of withdrawing your Majesty's troops from Afghanistan as soon as Shah
Sooja should be firmly established upon the throne he owes to your Majesty's aid.

These considerations alone would have led Lord Ellenborough to desire that the execution of
the orders given on the 4th of June should at least be delayed until your Majesty's confidential
servants had had time to consider maturely the Policy which it might be their duty to advise
your Majesty to sanction with respect to the countries on the right bank of the Indus; but
financial considerations strengthened this desire, and seemed to render it an imperative duty
to endeavour to obtain time for mature reflection before any step should be taken which might
seriously affect the tranquillity of Europe, and must necessarily have disastrous effects upon
the Administration of India.

It appeared that the political and military charges now incurred beyond the Indus amounted
to £1,250,000 a year--that the estimate of the expense of the additions made to the Army in
India, since April 1838, was £1,138,750 a year, and that the deficit of Indian Revenue in 1839-40
having been £2,425,625, a further deficit of £1,987,000 was expected in 1840-41.

Your Majesty must be too well informed of the many evils consequent upon financial embarrassment,
and entertains too deep a natural affection for all your Majesty's subjects, not to desire
that in whatever advice your Majesty's confidential servants may tender to your Majesty with
respect to the Policy to be observed in Afghanistan, they should have especial regard to the
effect which the protracted continuance of military operations in that country, still more
any extension of them to a new and distant field, would have upon the Finances of India, and
thereby upon the welfare of eighty millions of people who there acknowledge your Majesty's rule.

    [Footnote 98: President of the Board of Control.]

    [Footnote 99: For the progress of affairs in Afghanistan,
    see Introductory Notes for 1839-1842.
      (to Ch. VIII; Ch. IX; Ch. X; Ch. XI)]

Queen Victoria to Lord Ellenborough.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 19th September 1841.

The Queen thanks Lord Ellenborough for this clear and interesting Memorandum he has sent. It
seems to the Queen that the course intended to be pursued--namely to take time to consider
the affairs of India without making any precipitate change in the Policy hitherto pursued,
and without involving the country hastily in expenses, is far the best and safest.

[Pageheading: DIPLOMATIC APPOINTMENTS]

Queen Victoria to the Earl of Aberdeen.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 19th September 1841.

In the conversation that the Queen had with Lord Aberdeen last week, she omitted mentioning
two persons to him. The one is Lord Heytesbury; the Queen believes him to be a very able man,
and would it not therefore be a good thing to employ him in some important mission? The other
person is Mr Aston, who is at Madrid; the Queen hopes it may be possible to leave him there,
for she thinks that he acted with great discretion, prudence, and moderation since he has been
there, and the post is one of considerable importance. He was, the Queen believes, long Secretary
to the Legation at Paris.

The Earl of Aberdeen to Queen Victoria.

FOREIGN OFFICE, 21st September 1841.

Lord Aberdeen presents his most humble duty to your Majesty....

Lord Aberdeen has seen the favourable opinion which your Majesty has been graciously pleased
to express of Lord Heytesbury, and he humbly presumes to think that this honour is not unmerited.
The situation of Governor-General of India has recently been proposed by Sir Robert Peel for
Lord Heytesbury's acceptance, which has been declined by him, and it is understood that Lord
Heytesbury is not at present desirous of public employment.[100]

Your Majesty's servants have not yet fully considered the propriety of submitting to your Majesty
any proposal of a change in the Spanish Mission; but the opinion which your Majesty has been
pleased to signify respecting the conduct of Mr Aston at Madrid appears, in the humble judgment
of Lord Aberdeen, to be fully confirmed by the correspondence in this Office.

Lord Aberdeen would, however, venture humbly to mention that the person filling this Mission
has usually been replaced on a change of the Administration at home. Should this be the case
in the present instance, Lord Aberdeen begs to assure your Majesty that the greatest care will
be taken to select an individual for your Majesty's approbation who may be qualified to carry
into effect the wise, just, and moderate policy which your Majesty has been graciously pleased
to recognise in the conduct of Mr Aston.

    [Footnote 100: He was made Governor and Captain of the Isle of
    Wight, and Governor of Carisbrooke Castle.]

[Pageheading: MELBOURNE AND PEEL]

Memorandum by Mr Anson.

ROYAL LODGE, 21st September 1841.

Saw Baron Stockmar this morning at the Castle, and had a good deal of conversation with him
on various matters. He is very apprehensive that evil will spring out of the correspondence
now carried on between the Queen and Lord Melbourne. He thinks it is productive of the greatest
possible danger, and especially to Lord Melbourne; he thought no Government could stand such
undermining influence. I might tell this to Lord Melbourne, and say that if he was totally
disconnected from his Party, instead of being the acknowledged head, there would not be the
same objection. He said, Remind Lord Melbourne of the time immediately after the Queen's accession,
when he had promised the King of the Belgians to write to him from time to time an account
of all that was going on in this country; and upon Lord Melbourne telling him of this promise,
he replied, This will not do. It cannot be kept a secret that you keep up this correspondence,
and jealousy and distrust will be the fruit of a knowledge of it. "Leave it to me," he said,
"to arrange with the King; you cease to write, and I will put it straight with the King."

The Baron seemed to expect Lord Melbourne to draw the inference from this that a correspondence
between Lord Melbourne and the Queen was fraught with the same danger, and would, when known,
be followed by distrust and jealousy on the part of Sir Robert Peel. I said I reconciled it
to myself because I felt that it had been productive of much good and no harm--and that, feeling
that it was conducted on such honourable terms, I should not, if it were necessary, scruple
to acquaint Sir Robert Peel of its existence. The Baron said, "Ask Lord Melbourne whether he
would object to it." He said Peel, when he heard it, would not, on the first impression, at
all approve of it; but prudence and caution would be immediately summoned to his aid, and he
would see that it was his policy to play the generous part--and would say he felt all was honourably
intended, and he had no objection to offer--"but," said the Baron, "look to the result. Distrust,
being implanted from the first, whenever the first misunderstanding arose, or things took a
wrong turn, all would, in Peel's mind, be immediately attributed to this cause."

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 24th September 1841.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I have already thanked you for your two kind letters, but I did not wish
to answer them but by a Messenger. I feel thankful for your praise of my conduct; all is going
on well, but it would be needless to attempt to deny that I feel the change, and I own I am
much happier when I need not see the Ministers; luckily they do not want to see me often. I
feel much the King's kindness about Ste Aulaire;[101] I shall see him here on Tuesday next.

I return you our excellent friend Melbourne's letter, which I had already seen, as he sent
it me to read, and then seal and send. I miss him much, but I often hear from him, which is
a great pleasure to me. It is a great satisfaction to us to have Stockmar here; he is a great
resource, and is now in excellent spirits.

Mamma is, I suppose, with you now, and we may expect her here either next Thursday or Friday.
How much she will have to tell us! I am very grateful for what you say of Claremont, which
could so easily be made perfect; and I must say we enjoy ourselves there always particulièrement....
Albert begs me to make you his excuses for not writing, but I can bear testimony that he really
has not time to-day. And now addio! dearest Uncle, and pray believe me, always, your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 101: See post, p. 334. (Ch. X, 1st October, 1841)]

[Pageheading: FINE ARTS COMMISSION]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

26th September 1841.

Sir Robert Peel presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and begs to be permitted to submit
for your Majesty's consideration a suggestion which has occurred to Sir Robert Peel, and which
has reference to the communication which he recently addressed to your Majesty on the subject
of the promotion of the Fine Arts in connection with the building of the new Houses of Parliament.

Sir Robert Peel would humbly enquire from your Majesty whether (in the event of your Majesty's
being graciously pleased to approve of the appointment of a Royal Commission for the further
investigation and consideration of a subject of such deep importance and interest to the encouragement
of art in this country) your Majesty would deem it desirable that the Prince should be invited
in the name of your Majesty to place himself at the head of this Commission, and to give to
it the authority and influence of his high name, and the advantage of his taste and knowledge.

Sir Robert Peel will not of course mention this subject to any one, until he has had the honour
of receiving from your Majesty an intimation of your Majesty's opinions and wishes on this subject.

... The diplomatic appointments are as well as they could be made. At least Lord Melbourne
thinks so--at least as much in consequence of those whom they exclude, as of those whom they
admit. The Duke of Beaufort will do better for Petersburg than for Vienna. He is hardly equal
to the place, which requires a clever man, it being more difficult to get information there,
and to find out what is going on, than in any other country in Europe.... But Lord Melbourne
does not much regard this, and the Duke of Beaufort possesses one advantage, which is of the
greatest importance in that country. He is a soldier, was the Duke of Wellington's Aide-de-Camp,
and served during much of the Peninsular War. He will therefore be able to accompany the Emperor
to reviews, and to talk with him about troops and man[oe]uvres. Sir Robert Gordon and Sir S.
Canning will do very well.[102]

Lord Melbourne is very glad to hear that your Majesty was pleased and impressed with Archdeacon
Wilberforce's[103] sermon and his manner of delivering it. Lord Melbourne has never seen nor
heard him. His father had as beautiful and touching a voice as ever was heard. It was very
fine in itself. He spoiled it a little by giving it a methodistical and precatory intonation.

Hayter has been to Lord Melbourne to-day to press him to sit to him, which he will do as soon
as he has done with Chantrey. Chantrey says that all Lord Melbourne's face is very easy except
the mouth. The mouth, he says, is always the most difficult feature, and he can rarely satisfy
himself with the delineation of any mouth, but Lord Melbourne's is so flexible and changeable
that it is almost impossible to catch it.

    [Footnote 102: For Vienna and Constantinople.]

    [Footnote 103: Samuel, son of William Wilberforce, at this
    date Archdeacon of Surrey, and chaplain to Prince Albert;
    afterwards, in 1844, appointed Bishop of Oxford, and
    eventually translated to the See of Winchester.]

[Pageheading: MELBOURNE'S ADVICE]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Ste Aulaire's hair-powder seems to make a very deep and
general impression.[104] Everybody talks about it. "He appears to be very amiable and agreeable,"
everybody says, but then adds, "I never saw a man wear so much powder." A head so whitened
with flour is quite a novelty and a prodigy in these times. Lord Melbourne has not yet seen
him, but means to call upon him immediately. Lord Melbourne is upon the whole glad that the
Duke of Beaufort has declined St Petersburg. It is an appointment that might have been acquiesced
in, but would not have been approved. Bulwer[105] will not be a bad choice to accompany Sir
Charles[106] to Canada. Your Majesty knows Bulwer well. He is clever, keen, active; somewhat
bitter and caustic, and rather suspicious. A man of a more straightforward character would
have done better, but it would be easy to have found many who would have done worse. Lord Melbourne
is very glad that it has been offered to the Prince to be at the head of this Commission, and
that His Royal Highness has accepted it. It is an easy, unexceptionable manner of seeing and
becoming acquainted with a great many people, and of observing the mode of transacting business
in this country. The Commission itself will be a scene of very considerable difference of opinion.
Lord Melbourne is for decorating the interior of the Houses of Parliament, if it be right to
do so, but he is not for doing it, whether right or wrong, for the purpose of spending the
public money in the encouragement of the Fine Arts. Whether it is to be painting or sculpture,
or both; if painting, what sort of painting, what are to be the subjects chosen, and who are
to be the artists employed? All these questions furnish ample food for discussion, difference,
and dispute. Chantrey says fresco will never do; it stands ill in every climate, will never
stand long in this, even in the interior of a building, and in a public work such as this is,
durability is the first object to be aimed at. He says that there is in the Vatican a compartment
of which the middle portion has been painted by Giulio Romano[107] in fresco, and at each of
the ends there is a figure painted by Raphael in oil. The fresco painting has been so often
repaired in consequence of decay, that not a vestige of the original work remains; while the
two figures painted by Raphael in oil still stand out in all their original freshness, and
even improved from what they were when first executed....

Lord Melbourne dined and slept on Wednesday at Wimbledon.[108] He met there Lord and Lady Cottenham,
Lord[109] and Lady Langdale, Lord Glenelg and his brother, Mr Wm. Grant, who was his private
secretary, and is an amusing man. Lord Melbourne is going there again to-morrow to stay until
Monday. The place is beautiful; it is not like Claremont, but it is quite of the same character,
and always puts Lord Melbourne in mind of it. The Duchess has many merits, but amongst them
is the not small one of having one of the best cooks in England.

    [Footnote 104: Madame de Lieven wrote to Aberdeen, 12th
    September 1841: "Ne jugez pas cet Ambassadeur par son
    exterieur; il personnifie un peu les Marquis de Molière....
    Passez-lui ses cheveux poudrés, son air galant et papillon
    auprès des femmes. He cannot help it."]

    [Footnote 105: Sir Henry Bulwer, afterwards Lord Dalling.]

    [Footnote 106: Sir Charles Bagot.]

    [Footnote 107: He was a pupil of Raphael, celebrated for
    (among other works) his "Fall of the Titans."]

    [Footnote 108: The word is almost illegible. Wimbledon was at
    that time in the occupation of the Duke of Somerset.]

    [Footnote 109: Master of the Rolls.]

[Pageheading: PEERS AND AUDIENCES]

Sir James Graham to Queen Victoria.

WHITEHALL, 2nd October 1841.

Sir James Graham with humble duty begs to lay before your Majesty two letters, which he has
received from the Earl of Radnor,[110] together with the copy of the answer which Sir James
Graham returned to the first of the two letters.

If the presentation of Petitions were the sole subject of the Audience, it might be needless
to impose on your Majesty the trouble incident to this mode of receiving them, since they might
be transmitted through the accustomed channel of one of the Secretaries of State; but Sir James
Graham infers from a conversation which, since the receipt of the letters he has had with Lord
Radnor, that the Audience is asked in exercise of a right claimed by Peers of the Realm.

The general practice on the part of the Sovereign has been not to refuse these Audiences when
Peers have asked them....

The above is humbly submitted by your Majesty's dutiful Subject and Servant,

J. R. G. GRAHAM.

    [Footnote 110: William, third Earl, formerly M.P. for
    Salisbury.]

Queen Victoria to Sir James Graham.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 3rd October 1841.

The Queen has received Sir James Graham's communication with the enclosures. She thinks that
it would be extremely inconvenient if Audiences were to be granted to Peers for the purpose
of presenting Petitions or Addresses. The Queen knows that it has always been considered a
sort of right of theirs to ask for and receive an Audience of the King or Queen. But the Queen
knows that upon several occasions Lord Melbourne and Lord John Russell wrote to the Peers who
requested Audiences, stating that it would be very inconvenient for the Queen, particularly
in the country, and that they had better either put off asking for it, till the Queen came
to town, or send what they had to say; communicate in writing--which was complied with. If,
therefore, Sir James Graham would state this to Lord Radnor, he may probably give up pressing
for an Audience. Should he, however, urge his wish very strongly, the Queen will see him in
the manner proposed by Sir James. The Queen would wish to hear from Sir James again before
she gives a final answer.

[Pageheading: THE CHINESE CAMPAIGN]

Lord Ellenborough to Queen Victoria.

INDIA BOARD, 2nd October 1841.

Lord Ellenborough, with his most humble duty to your Majesty, humbly acquaints your Majesty
that your Majesty's Ministers, taking into consideration the smallness of the force with which
the campaign in China was commenced this year, and the advanced period of the season at which
the reinforcements would arrive (which reinforcements would not so raise the strength of the
Army as to afford any reasonable expectation that its operations will produce during the present
year any decisive results), have deemed it expedient that instructions would be at once issued
to the Indian Government with a view to the making of timely preparations for the campaign
of 1842.[111]

Your Majesty's Ministers are of opinion that the War with China should be conducted on an enlarged
scale, and the Indian Government will be directed to have all their disposable military and
naval force at Singapore in April, so that the operations may commence at the earliest period
which the season allows.

Lord Ellenborough cannot but entertain a sanguine expectation that that force so commencing
its operations, and directed upon a point where it will intercept the principal internal communication
of the Chinese Empire, will finally compel the Chinese Government to accede to terms of Peace
honourable to your Majesty, and affording future security to the trade of your Majesty's subjects.

    [Footnote 111: Ningpo was taken by Sir Hugh Gough on 13th
    October 1841, and no further operations took place till the
    spring of the following year. See Introductory Note, ante,
    p. 254. (Intro Note to Ch. X)]

Memorandum by Mr Anson.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 3rd October 1841.

Sat by the Queen last night at dinner. Her Majesty alluded to Sir Robert Peel's awkward manner,
which she felt she could not get over. I asked if Her Majesty had yet made any effort, which
I was good-humouredly assured Her Majesty "thought she really had done."

Sir Robert's ignorance of character was most striking and unaccountable; feeling this, made
it difficult for Her Majesty to place reliance upon his judgment in recommendations.

[Pageheading: ENGLISH AND FOREIGN ARTISTS]

[Pageheading: SIR FRANCIS CHANTREY]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

SOUTH STREET, 4th October 1811.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. He had the honour of receiving your
Majesty's letter of the 2nd inst. yesterday, at Wimbledon. If Lord Melbourne should hear of
anything of what your Majesty asks respecting the impression made upon Sir Robert and Lady
Peel, he will take care and inform your Majesty, but, of course, they will speak very favourably,
and if they feel otherwise will not breathe it except in the most secret and confidential manner.

Lord Melbourne is very much rejoiced to hear that the Duchess of Kent arrived safe and well
and in good spirits.

Lord Melbourne sat to Sir F. Chantrey on Saturday last. He will, Lord Melbourne believes, require
only one more sitting, which he wishes to be at the distance of a week from the last, in order
that he may take a fresh view of the bust, and not become reconciled to its imperfections by
continually looking at it. It may give the Prince some idea of the national feeling which prevails
here, when he is told that Lord Melbourne upon asking Sir F. Chantrey what ought to be done
if foreign artists were employed to paint the Houses of Parliament, received from him the following
answer: "Why, their heads ought to be broke and they driven out of the country, and, old as
I am, I should like to lend a hand for that purpose."

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

SOUTH STREET, 5th October 1841.

... Lord Melbourne, by telling your Majesty what Sir Francis Chantrey said respecting foreign
artists, and by requesting your Majesty to repeat it to the Prince, by no means intended to
imply that there was any disposition on the part of His Royal Highness to recommend the employment
of foreigners. He only meant to convey the idea of the strength of the prejudice which is felt
by enlightened and able men upon the subject. Lord Melbourne has been sitting this morning
to Hayter for the picture of the marriage, and he (Hayter) held an entirely contrary language.
His tone is: "If foreign artists are more capable than English, let them be employed. All I
require is that the work should be done as well as it can be." The English are certainly very
jealous of foreigners, and so, Lord Melbourne apprehends, are the rest of mankind, but not
knowing himself any nation except the English, he cannot venture to make positively that assertion.
Lord Melbourne has been reading the evidence given before the committee of the House of Commons
upon this subject. It is well worth attention, particularly Mr Eastlake's,[112] which appears
to Lord Melbourne to be very enlightened, dispassionate, and just....

    [Footnote 112: Afterwards Sir Charles Eastlake, Keeper of the
    National Gallery, 1843-1847, President of the Royal Academy,
    1850-1865.]

[Pageheading: THE PRINCE'S GRANT]

Memorandum by Mr Anson.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 6th October 1841.

Sat by Her Majesty last night at dinner.

The Queen had written to Lord Melbourne about coming to the Castle, but in his answer he had
made no allusion to it; she did not know whether this was accidental or intentional, for he
very often gave no answer to questions which were put.

I told Her Majesty that I feared he had raised an obstacle to his visit by making a strong
speech against the Government just at the time he was thinking of coming. That this attack
had identified him as the leader of his Party, at a moment when I had been most anxious that
he should abstain from taking an active part, and by withdrawing himself from politics he would
enable himself to become the more useful friend to Her Majesty. The Queen had not seen the
speech, was sorry he had felt himself obliged to make it, but it would be difficult for him
to avoid it after having been so long Prime Minister.

Her Majesty told me that previous to the exit of the late Government, Lord John had earnestly
cautioned Her Majesty not to propose any new grant of money, as it would in the case of £70,000
for the new stables, however unfairly, bring great unpopularity upon the Queen. I said in regard
to any increase to the Prince's annuity, I thought it would be very imprudent in him to think
of it, except under very peculiar circumstances which might arise, but which could not yet
be foreseen. The Queen said that nothing should induce Her Majesty to accept such a favour
from these Ministers. Peel probably now regretted his opposition to the grant, but it was,
and was intended to be, a personal insult to herself, and it was followed up [by] opposition
to her private wishes in the precedency question, where the Duke of Wellington took the lead
against her wishes, as Peel had done in the Commons against the Prince's grant. She never could
forget it, and no favour to her should come from such a quarter. I told Her Majesty I could
not rest the Prince's case on Her Majesty's objections if they were the only ones which could
be brought forward. If the case again rose I feared Her Majesty would find many who before,
from Party views, voted according to Her Majesty's wishes, would now rank on the opposite side.

Her Majesty asked Dr Hawtrey the evening before who was the cleverest boy at Eton.

Dr Hawtrey made a profound bow to the Queen and said, "I trust your Majesty will excuse my
answering, for if I did I make 600 enemies at once."

Memorandum by Baron Stockmar.

6th October 1841.

The Queen had asked Lord Melbourne whether he would soon visit her at Windsor. He had not replied
on that point, but had written to Prince Albert in order to learn first the Prince's opinion
on the feasibility of the matter.

The Prince sent for me and consulted with me. I was of opinion that the Prince had better refrain
from giving an answer, and that I should give my opinion in the written form of a Memorandum,
with which Anson should betake himself to town. He was to read it aloud to Melbourne, and orally
to add what amplifications might be necessary.

And so it was done.

[Pageheading: RELATIONS WITH PEEL]

My Memorandum was as follows:--

    Sir Robert Peel has yet to make his position opposite[113] the
    Queen, which for him to obtain is important and desirable for
    obvious reasons. I have good cause to doubt that Sir Robert
    is sure within himself of the good-will and confidence of the
    Queen. As long as the secret communication exists between Her
    Majesty and Lord Melbourne, this ground, upon which alone Sir
    Robert could obtain the position necessary to him as Premier,
    must remain cut away from under his feet. I hold, therefore,
    this secret interchange an essential injustice to Sir
    Robert's present situation. I think it equally wrong to call
    upon the Prince to give an opinion on the subject, as he has
    not the means to cause his opinion to be either regarded or
    complied with. In this particular matter nobody has paramount
    power to do right or wrong but the Queen, and more especially
    Lord Melbourne himself. To any danger which may come out of
    this to Her Majesty's character, the caution and objection
    must come from him, and from him alone; and if I was standing
    in his shoes I would show the Queen, of my own accord,
    and upon constitutional grounds too, that a continued
    correspondence of that sort must be fraught with imminent
    danger to the Queen, especially to Lord Melbourne, and to the
    State.

    [Footnote 113: I.e. with.]

I then gave Anson the further arguments with which he was to accompany the reading out of this
Memo.

[Pageheading: DISCRETION URGED ON MELBOURNE]

[Pageheading: MELBOURNE'S INFLUENCE]

On the next day Anson went to Melbourne and told him that his note to him had raised a great
consultation, that the Prince felt much averse to giving any opinion in a case upon which he
could exercise no control, and in which, if it was known that he had given his sanction, he
would be held responsible for any mischief which might arise. He had consulted Baron Stockmar,
who had written the enclosed opinion, which the Prince had desired Anson to read to Lord Melbourne.
Melbourne read it attentively twice through, with an occasional change of countenance and compression
of lips. He said on concluding it: "This is a most decided opinion indeed, quite an 'apple[114]
opinion.'" Anson told him that the Prince felt that if the Queen's confidence in Peel was in
a way to be established, it would be extremely shaken by his (Lord Melbourne's) visit at such
a moment. He felt that it would be better that Lord Melbourne's appearance should be in London,
where he would meet the Queen only on the terms of general society, but at the same time he
(the Prince) was extremely reluctant to give an opinion upon a case which Lord Melbourne's
own sense of right ought to decide. Anson added how he feared his speech of yesterday in the
House of Lords[115] had added another impediment to his coming at this moment, as it had identified
him with and established as the head of the Opposition party, which he (Anson) had hoped Melbourne
would have been able to avoid. Melbourne, who was then sitting on the sofa, rushed up upon
this, and went up and down the room in a violent frenzy, exclaiming--"God eternally d--n it!"
etc., etc. "Flesh and blood cannot stand this. I only spoke upon the defensive, which Ripon's
speech at the beginning of the session rendered quite necessary. I cannot be expected to give
up my position in the country, neither do I think that it is to the Queen's interest that I
should."

Anson continued that the Baron thought that no Ministry could stand the force of such an undercurrent
influence, that all the good that was to be derived from pacifying the Queen's mind at the
change had been gained, and that the danger which we were liable to, and which threatened him
in particular, could only be averted by his own straightforward decision with the Queen. Anson
asked him if he saw any danger likely to arise from this correspondence. After a long pause
he said, "I certainly cannot think it right," though he felt sure that some medium of communication
of this sort was no new precedent. He took care never to say anything which could bring his
opinion in opposition to Sir Robert's, and he should distinctly advise the Queen to adhere
to her Ministers in everything,[116] unless he saw the time had arrived at which it might be
resisted.[117] The principal evil, replied Anson, to be dreaded from the continuance of Lord
Melbourne's influence was, according to the Baron's opinion, that so long as the Queen felt
she could resort to Lord Melbourne for his advice, she never would be disposed (from not feeling
the necessity) to place any real confidence in the advice she received from Peel.

    [Footnote 114: No doubt Lord Melbourne said an "apple-pie"
    opinion.]

    [Footnote 115: At the opening of the Session Lord Ripon had
    reprobated the late Government for resorting to temporary
    expedients, and Lord Melbourne, on the second reading of the
    Exchequer-bills Funding Bill, caustically but good-humouredly
    replied to the attack.]

    [Footnote 116: Note by Baron Stockmar.--If he wishes to
    carry this out consistently and quite honestly, what then is
    the value of his advice, if it be only the copy of that of Sir
    R. Peel?]

    [Footnote 117: Note by Baron Stockmar.--This means, in my
    way of reading it: "The Queen, by her correspondence with
    me, puts Peel into my hands, and there I mean to let him stay
    unhurt, until time and extraneous circumstances--but more
    especially the advantage that will accrue to me by my secret
    correspondence with the Queen--shall enable me to plunge, in
    all security, the dagger into his back."]

The Earl of Liverpool to Baron Stockmar.[118]

FIFE HOUSE, 7th October 1841.

MY DEAR BARON,--Peel sent for me this morning to speak to me about the contents of his letter
to me. After some general conversation on matters respecting the Royal Household, he said that
he had had much satisfaction in his intercourse lately with Her Majesty, and specifically yesterday,
and he asked me whether I had seen Her Majesty or the Prince yesterday, and whether they were
satisfied with him. I told him that except in public I had not seen Her Majesty, and except
for a moment in your room I had not seen the Prince; but that as he spoke to me on this matter,
I must take the opportunity of saying a word to him about you, from whom I had learnt yesterday
that both the Queen and Prince are extremely well pleased with him. That I had known you very
long, but that our great intimacy began when King Leopold sent you over just previous to the
Queen's accession; that we had acted together on that occasion, and that our mutual esteem
and intimacy had increased; that your position was a very peculiar one, and that you might
be truly said to be a species of second parent to the Queen and the Prince; that your only
object was their welfare, and your only ambition to be of service to them; that in this sense
you had communicated with Melbourne, and that I wished that in this sense you should communicate
with him (Peel). He said that he saw the matter exactly as I did, that he wished to communicate
with you, and felt the greatest anxiety to do everything to meet the wishes of the Queen and
Prince in all matters within his power, and as far as consistent with his known and avowed
political principles; that in all matters respecting the Household and their private feelings
that the smallest hint sufficed to guide him, as he would not give way to any party feeling
or job which should in any way militate against Her Majesty or His Royal Highness's comfort;
that he wished particularly that it should be known that he never had a thought of riding roughshod
over Her Majesty's wishes; that if you would come to him at any time, and be candid and explicit
with him, you might depend upon his frankness and discretion; that above all, if you had said
anything to him, and expressed a wish that it might not be communicated even to the Duke of
Wellington, (that was his expression), that he wished me to assure you that your wishes should
be strictly attended to. Pray give me a line to say that you do not disapprove of what I have
done. We had a great deal more conversation, but with this I will not now load my letter, being
ever sincerely yours,

LIVERPOOL.

Direct your answer to this house.

    [Footnote 118: This letter was submitted to the Queen.]

[Pageheading: AUDIENCES OF PEERS]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. He has this morning received your Majesty's letter of
yesterday. There can be no doubt that your Majesty is right about the Audiences which have
been requested....

Sir Robert Peel is probably right in supposing that the claim of a Peer to an Audience of the
Sovereign originated in early times, and before the present course of government by responsible
advisers was fully and decidedly established, which it hardly can be said to have been until
after the accession of the House of Hanover, but the custom of asking for such Audiences, and
of their being in general granted, was well known, and has for the most part been observed
and adhered to. Lord Melbourne remembers that during the part of the French War, when considerable
alarm began to prevail respecting its duration, and the serious aspect which it was assuming,
George III. gave Audiences to the Duke of Norfolk and others which he certainly would not have
been inclined to do if he had not thought himself bound by his duty and by Constitutional precedent.
At the time of the passing of the Roman Catholic Relief Act, George IV. received very many
Peers, much no doubt against his will, who came to remonstrate with him upon the course which
his Ministers were pursuing. William IV. did the same at the time of the Reform Bill, and certainly
spoke upon the subject in a manner which Lord Melbourne always thought indiscreet and imprudent.
Upon the whole, the practice has been so much acted upon and established, that Lord Melbourne
will certainly not think it wise to make any alteration now, especially as it has in itself
beneficial effects, especially as in a time of strong political feeling it is a satisfaction
to the people to think that their wishes and opinions are laid before the Sovereign fairly
and impartially. It is not likely to be a very heavy burthen, inasmuch as such Audiences are
only asked at particular moments, and they are not in themselves very burthensome nor difficult
to deal with. It is only for the Sovereign to say that he is convinced of the good motives
which have actuated the step, and that consideration will be given to the matter and arguments
which have been stated.

Lord Melbourne has one vague recollection of a correspondence upon this subject between Lord
Holland and some King, but does not remember the circumstances with any accuracy.

Duncannon[119] persuaded Brougham to give up asking an Audience upon condition of Lord Melbourne's
promising to place his letters in your Majesty's hands, which he did.[120] Lord Charlemont[121]
also was prevented in some manner or another, which Lord Melbourne forgets.

Upon the whole, Lord Melbourne thinks that it is best to concede this privilege of the Peerage,
whether it actually exists or not, but to restrain it within due and reasonable bounds, which
in ordinary times it is not difficult to do. Extraordinary times must be dealt with as they
can be....

Lady A---- is, as your Majesty says, good-natured. She talks three or four times as much as
she ought, and like many such women often says exactly the things she ought not to say. Lady
B---- has ten times the sense of her mother, and a little residue of her folly.

    [Footnote 119: Ex-First Commissioner of Land Revenue.]

    [Footnote 120: See ante, pp. 293 and 335-6.
      (Ch. X, 'Lord Brougham'; 'Peers and Audiences')]

    [Footnote 121: Francis William, fifth Viscount Charlemont
    (1775-1863), created a Peer of the United Kingdom in 1837.]

[Pageheading: GOVERNOR-GENERALSHIP OF INDIA]

[Pageheading: LORD ELLENBOROUGH]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

9th October 1841.

Sir Robert Peel, with his humble duty to your Majesty, begs leave to inform your Majesty that
in consequence of the opinion which your Majesty was graciously pleased to express when Sir
Robert Peel last had the honour of waiting upon your Majesty, with respect to the superior
qualifications of Lord Ellenborough for the important trust of Governor-General of India, Sir
Robert Peel saw his Lordship yesterday, and enquired whether he would permit Sir Robert Peel
to propose his appointment to your Majesty.

Lord Ellenborough was very much gratified by the proposal, admitted at once that it was very
difficult to find an unexceptionable candidate for an office of such pre-eminent importance,
but made some difficulty on two points.

First--Considerations of health, which though disregarded personally, might, he feared, interfere
with the execution of such unremitting and laborious duties as would devolve upon the Governor-General
of India.

Secondly--The consideration that on his acceptance of the office he would be required by law
to give up during his tenure of it no less than £7,500 per annum, the amount of compensation
now paid to him in consequence of the abolition of a very valuable office[122] which he held
in the Courts of Law.

During Lord Ellenborough's conversation with Sir Robert Peel, and while the mind of Lord Ellenborough
was very much in doubt as to the policy of his acceptance of the office, the box which contained
your Majesty's note of yesterday was brought to Sir Robert Peel.

Sir Robert Peel humbly acquaints your Majesty that he ventured to read to Lord Ellenborough
on the instant the concluding paragraph of your Majesty's note, namely--

"The more the Queen thinks of it, the more she thinks that Lord Ellenborough would be far the
most fit person to send to India."

Sir Robert Peel is perfectly convinced that this opinion of your Majesty, so graciously expressed,
removed every doubt and difficulty from Lord Ellenborough's mind, and decided him to forgo
every personal consideration rather than appear unmindful of such a favourable impression of
his qualifications for public service on the part of his Sovereign.

Sir Robert Peel humbly hopes that your Majesty will not disapprove of the use which he made
of a confidential note from your Majesty.

As your Majesty kindly permitted Sir Robert Peel to send occasionally letters to your Majesty
of a private rather than a public character, he ventures to enclose one from the Duke of Wellington
on the subject of the appointment of Governor-General.

Sir Robert Peel had observed to the Duke of Wellington that he had great confidence in Lord
Ellenborough's integrity, unremitting industry, and intimate knowledge of Indian affairs; that
his only fear was that Lord Ellenborough might err from over-activity and eagerness--but that
he hoped his tendency to hasty decisions would be checked by the experience and mature judgment
of Indian advisers on the spot.

The Duke of Wellington's comments have reference to these observations of Sir Robert Peel.
Your Majesty will nevertheless perceive that the Duke considers, upon the whole, "that Lord
Ellenborough is better qualified than any man in England for the office of Governor-General."

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--- ... Respecting the Spanish affairs,[123] I can give you perfectly satisfactory
intelligence concerning the Infants' return. Espartero sees them return with the greatest regret,
but said he felt he could not prevent them from doing so. If, however, they should be found
to intrigue at all, they will not be allowed to remain. Respecting a marriage with the eldest
son of Dona Carlotta, I know positively that Espartero never would hear of it; but, on the
other hand, he is equally strongly opposed to poor little Isabel marrying any French Prince,
and I must add that we could never allow that. You will see that I have given you a frank and
fair account....

    [Footnote 123: The Queen-mother, who was living in Paris, had
    been deprived by a vote of the Cortes of the guardianship of
    the young Queen, Isabella II., and risings in her interest now
    took place at Pampeluna and Vittoria. On the 7th October, a
    bold attempt was made at Madrid to storm the Palace and get
    possession of the person of the young Queen. Lord Melbourne
earnestly hopes that your Majesty continues well.

Lord Melbourne is very glad to hear of the appointment of Lord Ellenborough. The reasons which
your Majesty gives are sound and just, and it is of great importance that a man not only of
great ability but of high station, and perfectly in the confidence of the Government at home,
should be named to this important post. Lord Ellenborough is a man of great abilities, of much
knowledge of India, of great industry and of very accurate habits of business, and Lord Melbourne
knows of no objection to his appointment, except the loss of him here, where, whether in or
out of office, he has always been of great service. He has hitherto been an unpopular man and
his manners have been considered contemptuous and overbearing, but he is evidently much softened
and amended in this respect, as most men are by time, experience, and observation. Lord Fitzgerald[124]
is a very able public man, Lord Melbourne would say one of the most able, if not the most able
they have; but Lord Melbourne is told by others, who know Lord Fitzgerald better, that Lord
Melbourne overrates him. He is a very good speaker, he has not naturally much industry, and
his health is bad, which will probably disable him from a very close and assiduous attention
to business. It is, however, upon the whole an adequate appointment, and he is perhaps more
likely to go on smoothly with the Court of Directors, which is a great matter, than Lord Ellenborough.

    [Footnote 124: On Lord Ellenborough becoming Governor-General,
    Lord Fitzgerald and Vesci, an ex-M.P., and former Chancellor
    of the Irish Exchequer, succeeded him at the Board of
    Control.]

[Pageheading: FRANCE AND SPAIN]

The Earl of Aberdeen to Queen Victoria.

FOREIGN OFFICE, 16th October 1841.

Lord Aberdeen, with his most humble duty, begs to lay before your Majesty a private letter
from M. Guizot, which has just been communicated to him by M. de Ste-Aulaire, on the recent
attempt in favour of Queen Christina in Spain. Your Majesty will see that although M. Guizot
denies, with every appearance of sincerity, all participation of the French Government in this
attempt, he does not conceal that it has their cordial good wishes for its success. These feelings,
on the part of such a Government as that of France, will probably be connected with practical
assistance of some kind, although M. Guizot's declarations may perhaps be literally true.

Queen Victoria to the Earl of Aberdeen.

The Queen must say that she fears the French are at the bottom of it, for their jealousy of
our influence in Spain is such, that the Queen fears they would not be indisposed to see civil
war to a certain degree restored rather than that Spain should go on quietly supported by us.[125]
The Queen, however, hopes that, as far as it is possible, the English Government will support
the present Regent, who is thoroughly attached to England, and who, from all that the Queen
hears of him, is the fittest man they have in Spain for the post he occupies; and indeed matters
till now had gone on much more quietly than they had for some time previous, since Espartero
is at the head of the Government. The French intrigues should really be frustrated. The Queen
certainly thinks that M. Guizot's veracity is generally not to be doubted, but the conduct
of France regarding Spain has always been very equivocal.

    [Footnote 125: See post, p. 349. (Ch. X, 17th October, 1841)]

[Pageheading: MASTERSHIP OF TRINITY]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

Sir Robert Peel has reason to believe that it would be advantageous that the selection of a
successor to Dr. Wordsworth should be made from members of Trinity College who are or have
been fellows of the College. Of these, the most eminent in respect to the qualifications required
in the office of Master, and to academical distinction, are:--

    Professor Whewell.[126]
    The Rev. Mr Martin,[127] Bursar of the College.
    The Rev. Dr Wordsworth,[128] Head Master of Harrow School,
        and son of the present Master of Trinity.

The latter is a highly distinguished scholar, but his success as Head Master of Harrow has
not been such as to overcome the objection which applies on general grounds to the succession
of a father by a son in an office of this description.

Professor Whewell is a member of Trinity College of the highest scientific attainments. His
name is probably familiar to your Majesty as the author of one of the Bridgewater Treatises,[129]
and of other works which have attracted considerable notice.

He is a general favourite among all who have had intercourse with him from his good temper
and easy and conciliatory manners. Though not peculiarly eminent as a divine (less so at least
than a writer on scientific and philosophical subjects), his works manifest a deep sense of
the importance of religion and sound religious views. The Archbishop of Canterbury[130] and
the Bishop of London[131] (himself of Trinity College) incline to think that the most satisfactory
appointment upon the whole would be that of Professor Whewell.

Sir Robert Peel, after making every enquiry into the subject, and with a deep conviction of
the importance of the appointment, has arrived at the same conclusion, and humbly therefore
recommends to your Majesty that Professor Whewell should succeed Dr Wordsworth as Master of
Trinity College, Cambridge.

    [Footnote 126: Then Knightsbridge Professor of Moral
    Philosophy.]

    [Footnote 127: Francis Martin, afterwards Vice-Master, died
    1868.]

    [Footnote 128: Christopher Wordsworth, afterwards Bishop of
    Lincoln.]

    [Footnote 129: By the will (dated 1825) of the eighth Earl
    of Bridgewater--who must not be confounded with the third and
    last Duke, projector of inland navigation--£8,000 was left
    for the best work on the "Goodness of God as manifested in
    the Creation." The money was divided amongst eight persons,
    including Whewell, who wrote on Astronomy considered in
    reference to Natural Theology.]

    [Footnote 130: William Howley.]

    [Footnote 131: O. J. Blomfield.]

[Pageheading: QUEEN ISABELLA]

[Pageheading: THE SPANISH MARRIAGE]

Queen Victoria to the Earl of Aberdeen.

17th October 1841.

The Queen received Lord Aberdeen's letter yesterday evening, and quite approves of the draft
to Mr Aston, and of Lord Aberdeen's having sent it off at once. Her earnest wish is that the
English Government should be firm, and uphold the Regent as far as it is in our power. The
Queen has perused M. Guizot's letter with great attention, but she cannot help fearing that
assistance and encouragement has been given in some shape or other to the revolts which have
taken place. The Queen Christina's residence at Paris is very suspicious, and much to be regretted;
every one who saw the Queen and knew her when Regent, knew her to be clever and capable of
governing, had she but attended to her duties. This she did not, but wasted her time in frivolous
amusements and neglected her children sadly, and finally left them. It was her own doing, and
therefore it is not the kindest conduct towards her children, but the very worst, to try and
disturb the tranquillity of a country which was just beginning to recover from the baneful
effects of one of the most bloody civil wars imaginable.

The Queen is certain that Lord Aberdeen will feel with her of what importance it is to England
that Spain should not become subject to French interests, as it is evident France wishes to
make it. The marriage of Queen Isabel is a most important question, and the Queen is likewise
certain that Lord Aberdeen sees at once that we could never let her marry a French Prince.
Ere long the Queen must speak to Lord Aberdeen on this subject. In the meantime the Queen thought
it might be of use to Lord Aberdeen to put him in possession of her feelings on the state of
Spain, in which the Queen has always taken a very warm interest.

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Besides the family, we have had hardly anybody here except
Lady Clanricarde.[132] Yesterday Sir Edward L. Bulwer[133] came, beating his brother hollow
in ridiculousness of attire, ridiculous as the other is. He has, however, much in him, and
is agreeable when you come to converse with him....

Lord Melbourne is rather in doubt about his own movements. Lord Leicester[134] presses him
much to go to Holkham, where Lord Fortescue,[135] Mr Ellice[136] and others are to be, and
considering Lord Leicester's age, Lord Melbourne thinks that it will gratify him to see Lord
Melbourne again there. But at Holkham they shoot from morning until night, and if you do not
shoot you are like a fish upon dry land. Lord Melbourne hardly feels equal to the exertion,
and therefore thinks that he shall establish himself for the present at Melbourne, where he
will be within reach of Trentham, Beau Desert,[137] Wentworth,[138] and Castle Howard,[139]
if he likes to go to them. The only annoyance is that it is close to Lord and Lady G----, whom
he will be perpetually meeting.

    [Footnote 132: A daughter of George Canning, the Prime
    Minister.]

    [Footnote 133: Afterwards Lord Lytton, the novelist.]

    [Footnote 134: The famous country gentleman, "Mr Coke of
    Norfolk."]

    [Footnote 135: Hugh, second Earl, K.G.]

    [Footnote 136: The Right Hon. Edward Ellice, M.P. ("Bear"

... In France there is a great outcry that a Bourbon must be the future husband of the Queen
of Spain, etc. I must say that as the Spaniards and the late King changed themselves the Salic
custom which Philip V. had brought from France,[140] it is natural for the rest of Europe to
wish that no Bourbon should go there. Besides, it must be confessed that the thing is not even
easy, as there is great hatred amongst the various branches of that family. The King of the
French himself has always been opposed to the idea of one of his sons going there; in France,
however, that opinion still exists, and Thiers had it, strongly.

I confess that I regret that Queen Christina was encouraged to settle at Paris, as it gave
the thing the appearance of something preconcerted. I believe that a wish existed that Christina
would retire peaceably and par la force des circonstances, but now this took a turn which I
am sure the King does not like; it places him, besides, into une position ingrate; the Radicals
hate him, the Moderates will cry out that he has left them in the lurch, and the Carlists are
kept under key, and of course also not much pleased. I meant to have remained in my wilds till
yesterday, but my Ministers were so anxious for my return, there being a good many things on
the tapis, that I came back on Tuesday, the 19th....

Here one is exactly shut up as if one was in a menagerie, walking round and round like a tame
bear. One breathes here also a mixture of all sorts of moist compounds, which one is told is
fresh air, but which is not the least like it. I suppose, however, that my neighbour in Holland,
where they have not even got a hill as high as yours in Buckingham Gardens, would consider
Laeken as an Alpine country. The tender meeting of the old King and the new King,[141] as one
can hardly call him a young King, must be most amusing. I am told that if the old King had
not made that love-match, he would be perfectly able to dethrone his son; I heard that yesterday
from a person rather attached to the son and hating the father. In the meantime, though one
can hardly say that he is well at home, some strange mixture of cut-throats and ruined soldiers
of fortune had a mind to play us some tricks here; we have got more and more insight into this.
Is it by instigation from him personally, or does he only know of it without being a party
to it? That is difficult to tell, the more so as he makes immense demonstration of friendly
dispositions towards us, and me in particular. I would I could make a chassez croisez with
Otho;[142] he would be the gainer in solids, and I should have sun and an interesting country;
I will try to make him understand this, the more so as you do not any longer want me in the West.

    [Footnote 140: The Pragmatic Sanction of Philip V. was
    repealed in 1792 by the Cortes, but the repeal was not
    promulgated by the King. Under the Salic Law, Don Carlos would
    have been on the throne. See ante, p. 44. (Ch. V, Footnote 9)]

    [Footnote 141: William I., who had abdicated in order to marry
    again, and William II., his son, who was nearly fifty.]

    [Footnote 142: The King of Greece, elected in 1833.]

[Pageheading: AMBASSADORS' AUDIENCES]

Queen Victoria to Sir Robert Peel.

25th October 1841.

With respect to the appointment of Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench, the Queen approves of
Mr Pennefather[143] for that office. The Queen may be mistaken, for she is not very well acquainted
with the judicial officers in Ireland, but it strikes her that Serjeant Jackson belonged to
the very violent Orange party in Ireland, and if this should be the case she suggests to Sir
Robert Peel whether it would not be better not to appoint him. If, on the other hand, the Queen
should be mistaken as to his political opinions, she would not disapprove of his succeeding
Mr Pennefather.

The Queen saw in the papers that Lord Stuart de Rothesay is already gone. The Queen can hardly
believe this, as no Ambassador or Minister ever left England without previously asking for
an Audience and receiving one, as the Queen wishes always to see them before they repair to
their posts. Would Sir Robert be so very good as to ask Lord Aberdeen whether Lord Stuart de
Rothesay is gone or not, and if he should be, to tell Lord Aberdeen that in future she would
wish him always to inform her when they intend to go, and to ask for an Audience, which, if
the Queen is well, she would always grant. It is possible that as the Queen said the other
day that she did not wish to give many Audiences after the Council, that Lord Aberdeen may
have misunderstood this and thought the Queen would give none, which was not her intention.
The Queen would be thankful to Sir Robert if he would undertake to clear up this mistake, which
she is certain (should Lord Stuart be gone) arose entirely from misapprehension.

The Queen also wishes Sir Robert to desire Lord Haddington to send her some details of the
intended reductions in the Fleet which she sees by a draft of Lord Aberdeen's to Mr Bulwer
have taken place.[144]

    [Footnote 143: Recently appointed Solicitor-General; Sergeant
    J. D. Jackson now succeeded him.]

    [Footnote 144: The statement of the Royal Navy in Commission
    at the beginning of 1841 sets out 160 vessels carrying 4,277
    guns.]

[Pageheading: STOCKMAR AND MELBOURNE]

[Pageheading: STOCKMAR'S ADVICE]

Memorandum by Baron Stockmar.

25th October 1841.

... I told [Lord Melbourne] that, as I read the English Constitution, it meant to assign to
the Sovereign in his functions a deliberative part--that I was not sure the Queen had the means
within herself to execute this deliberative part properly, but I was sure that the only way
for her to execute her functions at all was to be strictly honest to those men who at the time
being were her Ministers. That it was chiefly on this account that I had been so very sorry
to have found now, on my return from the Continent, that on the change of the Ministry a capital
opportunity to read a great Constitutional maxim to the Queen had not only been lost by Lord
Melbourne, but that he had himself turned an instrument for working great good into an instrument
which must produce mischief and danger. That I was afraid that, from what Lord Melbourne had
been so weak as to have allowed himself to be driven into, against his own and better conviction,
the Queen must have received a most pernicious bias, which on any future occasion would make
her inclined to act in a similar position similarly to that what she does now, being convinced
that what she does now must be right on all future occasions, or else Lord Melbourne would
not have sanctioned it. Upon this, Lord Melbourne endeavoured to palliate, to represent the
danger, which would arise from his secret correspondence with the Queen as very little, to
adduce precedents from history, and to screen his present conduct behind what he imagined Lord
Bute's conduct had been under George III.[145] I listened patiently, and replied in the end:
All this might be mighty fine and quite calculated to lay a flattering unction on his own soul,
or it might suffice to tranquillize the minds of the Prince and Anson, but that I was too old
to find the slightest argument in what I had just now heard, nor could it in any way allay
my apprehension. I began then to dissect all that he had produced for his excusation, and showed
him--as I thought clearly, and as he admitted convincingly--that it would be impossible to
carry on this secret commerce with the Sovereign for any length of time without exposing the
Queen's character and creating mighty embarrassments in the quiet and regular working of a
Constitutional machine.

My representations seemed to make a very deep impression, and Lord Melbourne became visibly
nervous, perplexed, and distressed. After he had recovered a little I said, "I never was inclined
to obtrude advice; but if you don't dislike to hear my opinion, I am prepared to give it to
you." He said, "What is it?" I said, "You allow the Queen's confinement to pass over quietly,
and you wait till her perfect recovery of it. As soon as this period has arrived, you state
of your own accord to Her Majesty that this secret and confidential correspondence with her
must cease; that you gave in to it, much against your feelings, and with a decided notion of
its impropriety and danger, and merely out of a sincere solicitude to calm Her Majesty's mind
in a critical time, and to prevent the ill effects which great and mental agitation might have
produced on her health. That this part of your purpose now being most happily achieved, you
thought yourself in duty bound to advise Her Majesty to cease all her communications to you
on political subjects, as you felt it wrong within yourself to receive them, and to return
your political advice and opinions on such matters; that painful as such a step must be to
your feelings, which to the last moment of your life will remain those of the most loyal attachment
and devotion to the Queen's person, it is dictated to you by a deep sense of what you owe to
the country, to your Sovereign, and to yourself."

    [Footnote 145: For some time after the accession of George
    III., Bute, though neither in the Cabinet nor in Parliament,
    was virtually Prime Minister, but he became Secretary of State
    on 25th March 1761. George II. had disliked him, but he was
    generally believed to have exercised an undue influence over
    the consort of Prince Frederic of Wales, mother of George
    III.]

Queen Victoria to Sir Robert Peel.

26th October 1841.

With respect to Serjeant Jackson, the Queen will not oppose his appointment, in consequence
of the high character Sir Robert Peel gives him; but she cannot refrain from saying that she
very much fears that the favourable effect which has hitherto been produced by the formation
of so mild and conciliatory a Government in Ireland, may be endangered by this appointment,
which the Queen would sincerely regret.

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. It certainly is a very unfortunate thing that the Queen
Christina was encouraged to fix her residence at Paris, and the suspicion arising, therefore,
cannot but be very injurious both to the King of the French and to the French nation.

Lord Melbourne returns his warmest thanks for your Majesty's kind expressions. He felt the
greatest pleasure at seeing your Majesty again and looking so well, and he hopes that his high
spirits did not betray him into talking too much or too heedlessly, which he is conscious that
they sometimes do.

The King Leopold, Lord Melbourne perceives, still hankers after Greece; but Crowns will not
bear to be chopped and changed about in this manner. These new Kingdoms are not too firmly
fixed as it is, and it will not do to add to the uncertainty by alteration....

[Pageheading: DISPUTE WITH UNITED STATES]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

WHITEHALL, 28th October 1841.

... Sir Robert Peel humbly assures your Majesty that he fully participates in the surprise
which your Majesty so naturally expresses at the extraordinary intimation conveyed to Mr Fox[146]
by the President of the United States.[147]

Immediately after reading Mr Fox's despatch upon that subject, Sir Robert Peel sought an interview
with Lord Aberdeen. The measure contemplated by the President is a perfectly novel one, a measure
of a hostile and unjustifiable character adopted with pacific intentions.

Sir Robert Peel does not comprehend the object of the President, and giving him credit for
the desire to prevent the interruption of amicable relations with this country, Sir Robert
Peel fears that the forcible detention of the British Minister, after the demand of passports,
will produce a different impression on the public mind, both here and in the United States,
from that which the President must (if he be sincere) have anticipated. It appears to Sir Robert
Peel that the object which the President professes to have in view would be better answered
by the immediate compliance with Mr Fox's demand for passports, and the simultaneous despatch
of a special mission to this country conveying whatever explanations or offers of reparation
the President may have in contemplation.

Sir Robert Peel humbly assures your Majesty that he has advised such measures of preparation
to be taken in respect to the amount of disposable naval force, and the position of it, as
without bearing the character of menace or causing needless disquietude and alarm, may provide
for an unfavourable issue of our present differences with the United States.

Sir Robert Peel fears that when the President ventured to make to Mr Fox the communication
which he did make, he must have laboured under apprehension that M'Leod might be executed in
spite of the efforts of the general Government of the United States to save his life.

    [Footnote 146: British Minister at Washington.]

    [Footnote 147: One Alexander M'Leod was tried at Utica on
    the charge of being implicated in the destruction of the
    Caroline (an American vessel engaged in carrying arms to the
    Canadian rebels), in 1837, and in the death of Mr Durfee, an
    American. The vessel had been boarded by Canadian loyalists
    when lying in American waters, set on fire and sent over
    Niagara Falls, and in the affray Durfee was killed. M'Leod
    was apprehended on American territory, and hence arose the
    friction between the two countries. M'Leod was acquitted 12th
    October 1841.]

[Pageheading: PORTUGAL]

Queen Victoria to the Earl of Aberdeen.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 31st October 1841.

The Queen received yesterday evening Lord Aberdeen's letter with the accompanying despatches
and draft. She certainly is surprised at the strange and improper tone in which Lord Howard's[148]
despatches are written, and can only attribute them to an over-eager and, she fully believes,
mistaken feeling of the danger to which he believes the throne of the Queen to be exposed.

The Queen has carefully perused Lord Aberdeen's draft, which she highly approves, but wishes
to suggest to Lord Aberdeen whether upon further consideration it might not perhaps be as well
to soften the words under which she has drawn a pencil line, as she fears they might irritate
Lord Howard very much.

The Queen is induced to copy the following sentences from a letter she received from her cousin,
the King of Portugal, a few days ago, and which it may be satisfactory to Lord Aberdeen to see:--

"Je dois encore vous dire que nous avons toutes les raisons de nous louer de la manière dont
le Portugal est traité par votre Ministre des Affaires Étrangères, et nous ferons de notre
côté notre possible pour prouver notre bonne volonté."

    [Footnote 148: Lord Howard de Walden, Minister Plenipotentiary
    at Lisbon.]

[Pageheading: SECRETARIES OF STATE]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

SOUTH STREET, 1st November 1841.

... Now for His Royal Highness's questions....

How the power of Prime Ministry grew up into its present form it is difficult to trace precisely,
as well as how it became attached, as it were, to the office of First Commissioner of the Treasury.
But Lord Melbourne apprehends that Sir Robert Walpole was the first man in whose person this
union of powers was decidedly established, and that its being so arose from the very great
confidence which both George I. and George II. reposed in him, and from the difficulty which
they had in transacting business, particularly George I., from their imperfect knowledge of
the language of the country.

With respect to the Secretary of State, Lord Melbourne is not prepared from memory to state
the dates at which the different arrangements of that office have taken place. There was originally
but one officer, and at the present the three are but the heads of the different departments
of one office. The first division was into two, and they were called the Secretary for the
Northern and the Secretary for the Southern department. They drew a line across the world,
and each transacted the business connected with the countries within his own portion of the
globe. Another division then took place, and the Foreign affairs were confided to one Secretary
of State, and the Home and Colonial affairs to the other; but the present arrangement was finally
settled in the year 1793, when the junction was formed between Mr Pitt on the one hand, and
those friends of Mr Fox who left him because they differed with him upon the French Revolution.
The Home affairs were placed in the hands of one Secretary of State, the Foreign of another,
and the Colonial and Military affairs of a third, and this arrangement has continued ever since.[149]
The persons then appointed were the Duke of Portland,[150] Lord Grenville,[151] and Mr Dundas,[152]
Home, Foreign, and Colonial Secretaries.

Writing from recollection, it is very possible that Lord Melbourne may be wrong in some of
the dates which he has ventured to specify.[153]

    [Footnote 149: A fourth Secretary of State was added at
    the time of the Crimean War, so as to separate Colonial and
    Military affairs, and a fifth after the Indian Mutiny to
    supersede the President of the Board of Control. See Lord
    Melbourne's letter of 31st December 1837, ante, p. 100.
      (Ch. VI, 'State Departments')]

    [Footnote 150: Third Duke (1738-1809).]

    [Footnote 151: William Wyndham, Lord Grenville (1759-1834).]

    [Footnote 152: Henry Dundas (1742-1811), afterwards Lord
    Melville.]

    [Footnote 153: See post, pp. 358, 359.
      (Ch. X, 'The English Constitution', et seq.)]

[Pageheading: THE ENGLISH CONSTITUTION]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Lady Palmerston is struck, as everybody is who goes to
Ireland, with the candid warmth and vehement demonstration of feeling. England always appears
cold, heartless, and sulky in comparison....

With respect to the questions put to me by your Majesty at the desire of His Royal Highness,
Lord Melbourne begs leave to assure your Majesty that he will be at all times most ready and
anxious to give any information in his power upon points of this sort, which are very curious,
very important, very worthy to be enquired into, and upon which accurate information is not
easily to be found. All the political part of the English Constitution is fully understood,
and distinctly stated in Blackstone and many other books, but the Ministerial part, the work
of conducting the executive government, has rested so much on practice, on usage, on understanding,
that there is no publication to which reference can be made for the explanation and description
of it. It is to be sought in debates, in protests, in letters, in memoirs, and wherever it
can be picked up. It seems to be stupid not to be able to say at once when two Secretaries
of State were established; but Lord Melbourne is not able. He apprehends that there was but
one until the end of Queen Anne's reign, and that two were instituted by George I., probably
because upon his frequent journeys to Hanover he wanted the Secretary of State with him, and
at the same time it was necessary that there should be an officer of the same authority left
at home to transact the domestic affairs.

Prime Minister is a term belonging to the last century. Lord Melbourne doubts its being to
be found in English Parliamentary language previously. Sir Robert Walpole was always accused
of having introduced and arrogated to himself an office previously unknown to the Law and Constitution,
that of Prime or Sole Minister, and we learn from Lady Charlotte Lindsay's[154] accounts of
her father, that in his own family Lord North would never suffer himself to be called prime
Minister, because it was an office unknown to the Constitution. This was a notion derived from
the combined Whig and Tory opposition to Sir Robert Walpole, to which Lord North and his family
had belonged.

Lord Melbourne is very sorry to hear that the Princess Royal continues to suffer from some
degree of indisposition. From what your Majesty had said more than once before, Lord Melbourne
had felt anxiety upon this subject, and he saw the Baron yesterday, who conversed with him
much upon it, and informed him of what had taken place. Lord Melbourne hopes that your Majesty
will attribute it only to Lord Melbourne's anxious desire for the security and increase of
your Majesty's happiness, if he ventures to say that the Baron appears to him to have much
reason in what he urges, and in the view which he takes. It is absolutely required that confidence
should be reposed in those who are to have the management and bear the responsibility, and
that they should not be too much interrupted or interfered with.

    [Footnote 154: Daughter of Lord North (afterwards Earl of
    Guilford) and wife of Lieut.-Colonel the Hon. John Lindsay. This shows that Lord Melbourne
was quite wrong with respect to the period at which two Secretaries
of State were first employed, and that it was much earlier than he had
imagined.

The year 1782, when the third Secretary of State was abolished, was the period of the adoption
of the great measure of Economical Reform which had been introduced by Mr. Burke in 1780.

The present arrangement was settled in 1794, which is about the time which Lord Melbourne stated.

    [Footnote 155: Secretary and Librarian at Holland House.]

[Pageheading: LORD MELBOURNE'S POSITION]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

SOUTH STREET, 7th November 1841.

... Your Majesty asks whether Lord Melbourne thinks that Prince Metternich holds the opinion
of Sir Robert Gordon, which he expresses to Lord Beauvale. It is difficult to say what Prince
Metternich's real sentiments are. Lord Melbourne takes him not to have a very high opinion
of the abilities of others in general, and he is not unlikely to depreciate Sir Robert Gordon
to Lord Beauvale. Sir Robert Gordon is a man of integrity, but he is tiresome, long and pompous,
which cannot be agreeable to the Prince, who has about him much of the French vivacity, and
also much of their settled and regular style of argument....

With respect to the latter part of your Majesty's letter, Lord Melbourne returns for the expressions
of your Majesty's kindness his warm and grateful thanks. Your Majesty may rest assured that
he will always speak to your Majesty without scruple or reserve, and that he will never ask
anything of your Majesty, or ever make a suggestion, which he does not consider to be for your
Majesty's service and advantage. Lord Melbourne is of opinion that his visits to the Palace
should not only avoid exciting suspicion and uneasiness in your Majesty's present advisers,
a result of which he has very little apprehension, but they should not be so frequent as to
attract public notice, comment, and observation, of which he would be more fearful. A public
rumour, however unfounded and absurd, has more force in this country than objections which
have in them more of truth and reality. Upon these grounds, and as your Majesty will probably
not see much company at present, and the parties therefore will be a good deal confined to
the actual Household, Lord Melbourne thinks it would perhaps be as well if he were not again
to dine at the Palace at present.

The course which it may be prudent to take hereafter will depend very much upon that which
cannot now be foreseen, namely, upon the general course which will be taken by politics and
political parties. In this Lord Melbourne does not at present discern his way, and he will
not therefore hazard opinions which would not be founded upon any certainty, and might be liable
to immediate change and alteration.

[Pageheading: STOCKMAR'S ADVICE]

[Pageheading: STOCKMAR'S EXPOSTULATIONS]

Memorandum: Baron Stockmar to Viscount Melbourne.

23 November 1841.

The apprehension which haunts me since my return to England is well known to you. It was my
intention to have written to you upon it some time hereafter, but the contents of a certain
letter, sent by you just before your departure, accelerates the execution of my design. From
your own expressions used some time back, I was led to expect that you would be glad to take
advantage of any fair opportunity which might contribute towards that devoutly to be wished
for object, viz., to let a certain correspondence die a natural death. You may easily conceive
how much I felt disappointed when I heard that you had written again, without a challenge,
and that, without apparent cause, you had volunteered the promise to write from time to time.
This happens at a moment when your harassing apprehension received new life and strength from
two incidents which I think it my duty to make known to you, and of which the one came to pass
before, the other after, your departure from here. Some weeks back I was walking in the streets
with Dr Prætorius,[156] when, finding myself opposite the house of one of my friends, it came
across my mind to give him a call. Prætorius wanted to leave me, on a conception that, as a
stranger, he might obstruct the freedom of our conversation. I insisted, however, on his remaining
with me, and we were shown into the drawing-room, where in all there were five of us. For some
minutes the conversation had turned on insignificant things, when the person talking to me
said quite abruptly: "So I find the Queen is in daily correspondence with Lord Melbourne."
I replied, "Who told you this?" The answer was, "Mrs Norton; she told me the other evening.
Don't you believe that Lord Melbourne has lost his influence over the Queen's mind; he daily
writes to her, and receives as many answers, in which she communicates everything to him."
Without betraying much emotion I said, "I don't believe a word of it; the Queen may have written
once or twice on private matters, but the daily correspondence on all matters is certainly
the amplification of a thoughtless and imprudent person, who is not aware of such exaggerated
assertions." My speech was followed by a general silence, after which we talked of other things,
and soon took our leave. When we were fairly in the open air, Prætorius expressed to me his
amazement at what he had heard, and he remained for some time at a loss to comprehend the character
of the person who, from mere giddiness, let out so momentous a secret.

The other fact took place the day after you had left. From the late events at Brussels, it
had become desirable that I should see Sir Robert Peel. From Belgium we travelled over to Home
politics. I expressed my delight at seeing the Queen so happy, and added a hope that more and
more she would seek and find her real happiness in her domestic relations only. He evidently
caught at this, and assured me that he should at all times be too happy to have a share in
anything which might be thought conducive to the welfare of Her Majesty. That no consideration
of personal inconvenience would ever prevent him from indulging the Queen in all her wishes
relating to matters of a private nature, and that the only return for his sincere endeavours
to please Her Majesty he looked to, was honesty in public affairs. Becoming then suddenly emphatic,
he continued, "But on this I must insist, and I do assure you, that that moment I was to learn
that the Queen takes advice upon public matters in another place, I shall throw up; for such
a thing I conceive the country could not stand, and I would not remain an hour, whatever the
consequences of my resignation may be."

Fully sensible that he was talking at me, I received the charge with the calmness of a good
conscience, and our time being exhausted I prepared for retreat. But he did not allow me to
do so, before he had found means to come a second time to the topic uppermost in his own mind,
and he repeated, it appeared to me with increased force of tone, his determination to throw
up, fearless of all consequences, that moment he found himself and the country dishonestly
dealt by.

I think I have now reported to you correctly the two occurrences which of late have added so
much to my antecedent suspicions and fears. Permit me to join to this a few general considerations
which, from the nature of the recited incidents alone, and without the slightest intervention
of any other cause, must have presented themselves to my mind. The first is, that I derive
from the events related quite ground enough for concluding that the danger I dread is great
and imminent, and that, if ill luck is to have its will, no human power can prevent an explosion
for a day, or even for an hour. The second is the contemplation--what state will the Queen
be placed in by such a catastrophe? That in my position, portraying to myself all the consequences
of such a possibility, I look chiefly to the Queen, needs hardly, I trust, an excuse.... Can
you hope that the Queen's character will ever recover from a shock received by a collision
with Peel, upon such a cause? Pray illustrate to yourself this particular question by taking
a purely political and general survey of the time and period we live in at this moment. In
doing so must you not admit that all England is agreed that the Tories must have another trial,
and that there is a decided desire in the nation that it should be a fair one? Would you have
it said that Sir Robert Peel failed in his trial, merely because the Queen alone was not fair
to him, and that principally you had aided her in the game of dishonesty? And can you hope
that this game can be played with security, even for a short time only, when a person has means
of looking into your cards whom you yourself have described to me some years ago as a most
passionate, giddy, imprudent and dangerous woman? I am sure beforehand that your loyalty and
devotion has nothing to oppose to the force of my exposition. There are, however, some other
and minor reasons which ought likewise to be considered before you come to the determination
of trusting entirely to possibilities and chance. For the results of your deliberation you
will have to come to will in their working and effects go beyond yourself, and must affect
two other persons. These will have a right to expect that your decision will not be taken regardless
of that position, which accidental circumstances have assigned to them, in an affair the fate
of which is placed entirely within your discretion. This is an additional argument why you
should deliberate very conscientiously. A mistake of yours in this respect might by itself
produce fresh difficulties and have a complicating and perplexing retro effect upon the existing
ones; because both, seeing that they must be sufferers in the end, may begin to look only to
their own safety, and become inclined to refuse that passive obedience which till now constitutes
the vehicle of your hazardous enterprize.

Approaching the conclusion of this letter, I beg to remind you of a conversation I had with
you on the same subject in South Street, the 25th of last month.[157] Though you did not avow
it then in direct words, I could read from your countenance and manner that you assented in
your head and heart to all I had said, and in particular to the advice I volunteered at the
end of my speech. At that time I pointed out to you a period when I thought a decisive step
ought to be taken on your part. This period seems to me to have arrived. Placing unreserved
confidence into your candour and manliness, I remain, for ever, very faithfully yours,

STOCKMAR.

    [Footnote 156: Librarian and German Secretary to Prince
    Albert.]

    [Footnote 157: Ante, pp. 352-3. (Ch. X, 'Stockmar and Melbourne')]

[Pageheading: MELBOURNE'S REPLY]

Viscount Melbourne to Baron Stockmar.

24th November 1841.

(Half-past 10 P.M.)

MY DEAR BARON,--I have just received your letter; I think it unnecessary to detain your messenger.
I will write to you upon the subject and send it through Anson. Yours faithfully,

MELBOURNE.

[Pageheading: THE HEIR APPARENT]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 29th November 1841.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I have to thank you for four most kind letters, of the 4th, 6th, 19th and
26th; the last I received yesterday. I would have written sooner, had I not been a little bilious,
which made me very low, and not in spirits to write. The weather has been so exceedingly relaxing,
that it made me at the end of the fortnight quite bilious, and this, you know, affects the
spirits. I am much better, but they think that I shall not get my appetite and spirits back
till I can get out of town; we are therefore going in a week at latest. I am going for a drive
this morning, and am certain it will do me good. In all essentials, I am better, if possible,
than last year. Our little boy[158] is a wonderfully strong and large child, with very large
dark blue eyes, a finely formed but somewhat large nose, and a pretty little mouth; I hope
and pray he may be like his dearest Papa. He is to be called Albert, and Edward is to be his
second name. Pussy, dear child, is still the great pet amongst us all, and is getting so fat
and strong again.

I beg my most affectionate love to dearest Louise and the dear children. The Queen-Dowager
is recovering wonderfully.

I beg you to forgive this letter being so badly written, but my feet are being rubbed, and
as I have got the box on which I am writing on my knee, it is not easy to write quite straight--but
you must not think my hand trembles. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Pussy is not at all pleased with her brother.

    [Footnote 158: His Majesty King Edward VII., born 9th
    November.]

[Pageheading: THE INFANT PRINCE]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

TRENTHAM, 1st December 1841. Lord Melbourne hears with great concern that your Majesty has
been suffering under depression and lowness of spirits.... Lord Melbourne well knows how to
feel for those who suffer under it, especially as he has lately had much of it himself.

Lord Melbourne is much rejoiced to hear so good an account of the Heir Apparent and of the
Princess Royal, and feels himself greatly obliged by the information respecting the intended
names and the sponsors. Lord Melbourne supposes that your Majesty has determined yourself upon
the relative position of the two names, but Edward is a good English appellation, and has a
certain degree of popularity attached to it from ancient recollections. Albert is also an old
Anglo-Saxon name--the same, Lord Melbourne believes, as Ethelred--but it has not been so common
nor so much in use since the Conquest. However, your Majesty's feelings, which Lord Melbourne
perfectly understands, must determine this point. The notion of the King of Prussia[159] gives
great satisfaction here, and will do so with all but Puseyites and Newmanites and those who
lean to the Roman Catholic faith. His strong Protestant feelings, and his acting with us in
the matter of the Syrian Bishop, have made the King of Prussia highly popular in this country,
and particularly with the more religious part of the community.

Your Majesty cannot offer up for the young Prince a more safe and judicious prayer than that
he may resemble his father. The character, in Lord Melbourne's opinion, depends much upon the
race, and on both sides he has a good chance. Be not over solicitous about education. It may
be able to do much, but it does not do so much as is expected from it. It may mould and direct
the character, but it rarely alters it. George IV. and the Duke of York were educated quite
like English boys, by English schoolmasters, and in the manner and upon the system of English
schools. The consequence was that, whatever were their faults, they were quite Englishmen.
The others, who were sent earlier abroad, and more to foreign universities, were not quite
so much so. The late king was educated as a sailor, and was a complete sailor....

Lord Melbourne will tell your Majesty exactly what he thinks of John Russell's reply to the
Plymouth address. It is very angry and very bitter, and anger and bitterness are never very
dignified. Lord Melbourne certainly would not have put in those sarcasms upon the Duke of Wellington
and Sir Robert Peel, for their change of opinion and conduct upon the Roman Catholic question.
But the tone of the rest of the answer is, in Lord Melbourne's opinion, just and right. We
certainly delivered the affairs of the country into their hands in a good state, both at home
and abroad, and we should be acting unfairly by ourselves if we did not maintain and assert
this upon every occasion. Lord Melbourne's notion of the conduct which he has to pursue is,
that it should not be aggressive, but that it must be defensive. He would oppose no right measures,
but he cannot suffer the course of policy which has been condemned in him to be adopted by
others without observation upon the inconsistency and injustice....

Lord Melbourne concludes with again wishing your Majesty health and happiness, and much enjoyment
of the country.

    [Footnote 159: King Frederick William IV., who was to be a
    sponsor.]

[Pageheading: PRINCE OF WALES]

Sir James Graham to Queen Victoria.

WHITEHALL, 6th December 1841.

Sir James Graham, with humble duty, begs to enclose for the Signature of your Majesty the Letters
Patent creating His Royal Highness, the Prince of the United Kingdom, Prince of Wales and Earl
of Chester.[160]

Understanding that it is your Majesty's pleasure to have this Creation inserted in the Gazette
of to-morrow night, Sir James Graham has given directions, which will ensure the publication,
though the Letters Patent themselves may not be completed. The Warrant already signed by your
Majesty is a sufficient authority.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 7th December 1841.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--We arrived here sains et saufs with our awfully large Nursery Establishment
yesterday morning. It was a nasty warm and very rainy day, but to-day is very bright, clear
and dry, and we walked out early and felt like prisoners freed from some dungeon. Many thanks
for your kind letter of the 2nd, by which I grieve to see that you are not quite well. But
let me repeat again, you must not despond so; you must not be so out of spirits. I have likewise
been suffering so from lowness that it made me quite miserable, and I know how difficult it
is to fight against it. I am delighted to hear that all the children are so well. I wonder
very much who our little boy will be like. You will understand how fervent my prayers and I
am [sure] everybody's must be, to see him resemble his angelic dearest Father in every, every
respect, both in body and mind. Oh! my dearest Uncle, I am sure if you knew how happy, how
blessed I feel, and how proud I feel in possessing such a perfect being as my husband, as he
is, and if you think that you have been instrumental in bringing about this union, it must
gladden your heart! How happy should I be to see our child grow up just like him! Dear Pussy
travelled with us and behaved like a grown-up person, so quiet and looking about and coquetting
with the Hussars on either side of the carriage. Now adieu! Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: THE APPROACHING CHRISTENING]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

CASTLE HOWARD, 22nd December 1841.

... Lord Melbourne will consider himself most highly honoured by being invited to the christening,
and will hold himself in readiness to attend, whenever it may take place. He has written to
Mr Anson in answer to the letter which he received from him this morning. Lord Melbourne has
been obliged to consent to receive an address from Derby, and has fixed Monday the 27th inst.
for that purpose. He could have wished to have avoided this, but it was impossible, and he
must make the best of it that he can, which he conceives will be effected by conceiving his
reply in very guarded terms, and in a tone defensive of his own administration, but not offensive
to those who have succeeded him....

Lord Melbourne is very glad to hear of the feelings of the King of Prussia. For religious matters
he is at present very popular with many in this country, and popularity, though transient and
uncertain, is a good thing while it lasts. The King of the Belgians should not be surprised
or mortified at the conduct of the King of Holland. We must expect that people will act according
to their nature and feelings. The Union of Belgium and Holland has been for a long time the
first wish and the daily dream of the House of Orange. It has been the great object of their
lives, and by the separation, which took place in 1830, they saw their fondest hopes disappointed
and destroyed at once. It must be expected that under such a state of things, they will be
unquiet, and will try to obtain what they so eagerly desire and have once possessed.

Lord Melbourne is much rejoiced to hear that your Majesty is in the enjoyment of such good
health. Your Majesty's observations upon your own situation are in the highest degree just
and prudent, and it is a sign of a right mind and of good feelings to prize the blessings we
enjoy, and not to suffer them to be too much altered by circumstances, which may not turn out
exactly according to our wishes.

[Pageheading: THE UNITED STATES]

The Earl of Aberdeen to Queen Victoria.

FOREIGN OFFICE, 24th December 1841.

Lord Aberdeen presents his most humble duty to your Majesty. He ventures to request your Majesty's
attention for a moment to the character of your Majesty's present relations with the Government
of the United States. Your Majesty is aware that several questions of great difficulty and
importance have been long pending between the two Governments.[161] Some of these have become
more complicated than they were ten years ago; and any of them might, at any moment, lead to
consequences of the most disastrous nature.

Instead of continuing negotiations, necessarily tedious and which promise to be interminable,
your Majesty's servants are humbly of opinion that an effort ought to be made, by a Special
Mission at Washington, to bring all these differences promptly to an adjustment. The public
feeling in the United States at this time does not appear to be unfavourable for such an attempt.
Should it be undertaken by a person whose rank, character, and abilities would ensure respect,
and whose knowledge of the subjects under discussion, and of the people of the country, together
with his conciliatory manners, would render him generally acceptable, your Majesty might perhaps
indulge the hope of a successful result.

Lord Aberdeen humbly ventures to think that such a person may be found in Lord Ashburton,[162]
whom he submits for your Majesty's gracious approbation.

    [Footnote 161: The question of the North-West Boundary had
    long been one source of dispute; another was the right the
    British Government claimed of searching vessels suspected of
    being engaged in the slave trade.]

    [Footnote 162: Alexander, first Lord Ashburton, who had held
    office in Peel's short Ministry, and married Miss Bingham of
    Philadelphia. See post, p. 461. (Ch. XII, Footnote 10)]

[Pageheading: CHRISTMAS]

Memorandum by Mr Anson.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 26th December 1841.

Christmas has brought its usual routine of festivity and its agreeable accompaniment of Christmas
presents. The Queen was not at all well again yesterday, being again troubled with lowness.
The Melbourne correspondence still is carried on, but I think not in its pristine vigour by
any means. He has taken no notice of the Baron's remonstrance to him, and we are in the dark
in what manner, if at all, he means to deal with it.

I have sat by Her Majesty at dinner several times lately. I should say that Her Majesty interests
herself less and less about politics, and that her dislike is less than it was to her present
Ministers, though she would not be prepared to acknowledge it. Her Majesty is a good deal occupied
with the little Princess Royal, who begins to assume companionable qualities. In the evening,
instead of her usual conversation with her old Prime Minister, some round game at cards is
substituted, which always terminates at eleven. The Prince, to amuse the Queen at this, has
nearly left off his chess; his amusements--shooting or hunting--always commence and terminate
between eleven and two, not to interfere with Her Majesty's arrangements, in which he is included
as her companion.

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Lord Melbourne will be in town on Friday evening next,
and after that day will wait upon your Majesty, whenever your Majesty is pleased to command....

Lord Melbourne is very glad to hear that the King of the Belgians is reassured by his journey
to Mons and his reception upon it. He need not mind the King of Holland, if he can keep all
right at Paris.

The railway smash[163] is awful and tremendous, as all railway mishaps are, and Lord Melbourne
fears must always be. These slips and falls of earth from the banks are the greatest danger
that now impends over them, and if they take place suddenly and in the dark, Lord Melbourne
does not see how the fatal consequences of them are to be effectually guarded against. They
are peculiarly likely to happen now, as the cuttings have been recently and hastily made, the
banks are very steep, and the season has been peculiarly wet, interrupted by severe frosts.

Lord Melbourne received the deputation from Derby, a large and respectable one, here on Monday
last. The address was very guarded, temperate, and judicious, and Lord Melbourne strove to
construct his answer in the same manner.

    [Footnote 163: This accident took place on 24th December in
    the Sonning Hill cutting, two and a half miles from Reading.
    Eight persons were killed on the spot.]

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

TO CHAPTER XI

THE session was mainly occupied by the great Ministerial measure of finance, direct taxation
by means of income tax being imposed, and the import duties on a large number of articles being
removed or relaxed, Mr Gladstone, now at the Board of Trade, taking charge of the bills. Two
more attempts on the Queen's life were made, the former again on Constitution Hill by one Francis,
whose capital sentence was commuted; the latter by a hunchback, Bean, who was sentenced to
eighteen months' imprisonment. An Act was promptly passed to deal with such outrages in future
as misdemeanours, without giving them the importance of high treason. Lord Ashley's Bill was
passed, prohibiting woman and child labour in mines and collieries. But the Anti-Corn Law League
of Manchester was not satisfied with the policy of the Government and objected to the income
tax; while riots broke out in the manufacturing districts of the North.

In Afghanistan, the disasters of the previous year were retrieved; Sir Robert Sale, who was
gallantly defending Jellalabad, made a sortie and defeated Akbar Khan; General Nott arrived
at Ghuznee, but found it evacuated; he destroyed the citadel and removed the Gates of Somnauth.
General Pollock swept the Khyber Pass and entered Cabul. The captives taken on the retreat
from Cabul were recovered--Lady Macnaghten and Lady Sale among them. In retribution for the
murder of Macnaghten, the great bazaar of Cabul, where his remains had been dishonoured, was
destroyed by Pollock; the British force was then withdrawn. Dost Mahommed made himself again
ruler of Cabul, and a proclamation of Lord Ellenborough announced that the British Government
accepted any Sovereign and Constitution approved by the Afghans themselves.

In China, also, operations were successfully terminated, Chapoo being taken in May, and an
attack by Admiral Parker upon Nanking being only averted by the conclusion of a favourable
treaty, involving an indemnity, the cession by China of Hong Kong, and the opening of important
ports to commerce.

A dispute had arisen between this country and the United States as to the boundary line between
the latter country and the British Possessions in North America. Lord Ashburton was accordingly
sent out on a special mission to effect the adjustment of this and other disputes, and a treaty
was concluded for the purpose of defining each country's territorial rights, and imposing mutual
obligations for the suppression of the Slave Trade.

CHAPTER XI

1842

Queen Adelaide to Queen Victoria.

SUDBURY HALL, 4th January 1842.

MY DEAR NIECE,--Most grateful for your very amiable kind letter full of good wishes for me,
I hasten to answer it and to assure you that I deeply feel all your affectionate kindness to
me in wishing my life to be prolonged. From ill-health I have become such a useless member
of your family, that I must wonder you have not long been tired of me. I wish I was more able
to be of any use to you which you might like to make of me. My services would be most faithful,
I can assure you. Should my life be spared, there may perhaps yet be a time when I can prove
to you, that what I say is not merely a façon de parler, but my sincere wish.

Your domestic happiness, dearest Victoria, gives me great satisfaction whenever I think of
it, and that is very often. God continue it so, uninterrupted, is my daily prayer.

Your approbation of my little offering to my dear godchild gives me much pleasure. It occupied
me several days during my illness to make the drawing, weak as I then was, and it was a pleasant
occupation.

We have frost again, with a clear blue sky, which is much better for me than the damp close
weather of last week, which oppressed me so much. I breathe again, and my spirits get their
usual tone, which they had lost, but I still cough a great deal, which is very fatiguing.

Will you kiss your darlings in my name and bless them, and pray believe me ever, my dear Niece,
your most affectionately devoted Aunt,

ADELAIDE.

[Pageheading: WINDSOR]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

BROADLANDS,[1] 5th January 1842.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and begs to return to your Majesty
and to His Royal Highness his thanks for all the kindness shown him at Windsor. He was very
happy to find himself there again and in your Majesty's society. He has seen many fine places
and much fine country, but after all there is nothing like Windsor and the Park. Twenty very
fine places might easily be made out of the latter. Lord Melbourne as he drove to Bagshot was
very glad to see the plantations at and about Cumberland Lodge and onwards so well and judiciously
thinned. He had a very prosperous journey here. It is a lovely place, with the greatest beauty
that a place can have, a very swift, clear, natural stream, running and winding in front of
the house. The whole place is much improved since Lord Melbourne saw it last; a great deal
of new pleasure-ground has been made. The trees, cypresses, elders, planes, elms, white poplars
and acacias are very fine indeed....

Lord Melbourne thinks of staying here six or seven days, and then returning to London and going
to Brocket Hall and Panshanger, but he has not fixed his plans decidedly, which he is never
very fond of doing.

Lord Melbourne was delighted at thinking that he left your Majesty in good health, which he
earnestly hopes and fervently prays may, together with every other blessing, long continue.

    [Footnote 1: The house of Lord Palmerston in Hants.]

The Earl of Aberdeen to Queen Victoria.

FOREIGN OFFICE, 6th January 1842.

... Sir Robert Peel has informed Lord Aberdeen that he had mentioned to your Majesty the suggestion
of the King of Prussia to confer the Order of the Black Eagle[2] upon the Prince of Wales,
immediately after the christening of his Royal Highness. Lord Aberdeen therefore abstains from
troubling your Majesty with any observations on this subject.

    [Footnote 2: Founded by Frederick I. in 1701.]

[Pageheading: DISASTERS IN AFGHANISTAN]

Lord Fitzgerald to Queen Victoria.

8th January 1842.

Lord Fitzgerald, with his most humble duty to your Majesty, begs leave humbly to inform your
Majesty that despatches have been this day received at the India House from the Earl of Auckland,
Governor-General of India, which most officially confirm to too great an extent the disastrous
intelligence contained in the public journals of yesterday, the particulars of which the editors
of these journals had received by express messengers from Marseilles.[3]

This intelligence is of a most painful character, and though the details which have arrived
do high honour to the courage and the gallantry of your Majesty's forces, as well as of the
East India Company's Army, yet the loss sustained has been very great, and many valuable officers
have fallen the victims of a widespread conspiracy which seems to have embraced within its
confederation the most warlike tribes of the Afghan nation.

Lord Fitzgerald begs leave most humbly to lay before your Majesty an interesting despatch from
Lord Auckland, comprising the most important details of the late events in Afghanistan.

It is very satisfactory to Lord Fitzgerald to be enabled humbly to acquaint your Majesty that
Lord Auckland has decided on waiting the arrival of his successor, Lord Ellenborough, and states
to Lord Fitzgerald that he will feel it to be his duty to remain in his [Government], in the
present critical state of affairs, until he is relieved by the new Governor-General.

All of which is most humbly submitted to your Majesty, by your Majesty's most dutiful Subject
and Servant,

FITZGERALD AND VESCI.

    [Footnote 3: See Introductory Note, 1841, ante, p. 254.
    The rebellion broke out at Cabul on 2nd November, and Sir
    Alexander Burnes was murdered. (Intro Note to Ch. X)]

[Pageheading: THE OXFORD MOVEMENT]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

With respect to the Oxford affair, your Majesty is aware that for a long time a serious difference
has been fermenting and showing itself in the Church of England, one party leaning back towards
Popery, and the other either wishing to keep doctrines as they are, or, perhaps, to approach
somewhat nearer to the dissenting Churches. This difference has particularly manifested itself
in a publication, now discontinued, but which has been long going on at Oxford, entitled Tracts
for the Times, and generally called the Oxford Tracts. The Professorship of Poetry is now vacant
at Oxford, and two candidates have been put forward, the one Mr Williams, who is the author
of one or two of the most questionable of the Oxford Tracts, and the other Mr Garbett, who
is a representative of the opposite party. Of course the result of this election, which is
made by the Masters of Arts of the University, is looked to with much interest and anxiety,
as likely to afford no unequivocal sign of which is the strongest party in the University and
amongst the clergy generally. It is expected that Mr Garbett will be chosen by a large majority....

[Pageheading: THE MORNING CHRONICLE]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

Lord Melbourne does not think this Puseyite difference in the Church so serious or dangerous
as others do. If it is discreetly managed, it will calm down or blow over or sink into disputes
of little significance. All Lord Melbourne fears is lest the Bishops should be induced to act
hastily and should get into the wrong. The Puseyites have the most learning, or rather, have
considered the points more recently and more accurately than their opponents.

Lord Melbourne hopes that the Spanish affair will be settled. Lord Melbourne cannot doubt that
the French are wrong. Even if the precedents are in their favour, the Spanish Court has a right
to settle its own etiquette and its own mode of transacting business, and to change them if
it thinks proper.[4]

Lord Melbourne was at Broadlands when the Article to which your Majesty alludes appeared in
the Morning Chronicle, and he talked it over with Palmerston. He does not think that Palmerston
wrote it, because there were in it errors, and those errors to Palmerston's disadvantage; but
it was written by Easthope under the impression that it conveyed Palmerston's notions and opinions.
Your Majesty knows very well that Palmerston has long had much communication with the Morning
Chronicle and much influence over it, and has made great use of it for the purpose of maintaining
and defending his own policy. In this sort of matter there is much to be said upon both sides.
A Minister has a great advantage in stating his own views to the public, and if Palmerston
in the Syrian affair had not had as devoted an assistant as the Morning Chronicle, he would
hardly have been able to maintain his course or carry through his measures. It has always been
Lord Melbourne's policy to keep himself aloof from the public press and to hold it at arm's-length,
and he considers it the best course, but it is subject to disadvantages. You are never in that
case strongly supported by them, nor are the motives and reasons of your conduct given to the
public with that force and distinctness which they might be.

Lord Melbourne has no doubt that your Majesty's assurance is well founded, and that the present
Government are anxious for the welfare and prosperity and tranquillity of Spain. It cannot
be otherwise.

Palmerston dislikes Aberdeen and has a low opinion of him. He thinks him weak and timid, and
likely to let down the character and influence of the country. Your Majesty knows that Lord
Melbourne does not partake these opinions, certainly not at least to anything like the extent
to which Palmerston carries them.

Lord Melbourne is going down to Panshanger to-morrow, where he understands that he is to meet
Lord and Lady Lansdowne and Lord and Lady Leveson.[5] Lord Melbourne will take care and say
nothing about Brighton, but is glad to hear that your Majesty is going thither.

    [Footnote 4: An Ambassador, M. de Salvandy, had been sent
    from France to Madrid. Espartero, the Regent, required the
    credentials to be presented to him and not to the young Queen.
    The French Ambassador having refused to comply, an unseemly
    dispute arose, and M. de Salvandy left Madrid.]

    [Footnote 5: The late Lord Granville and his first wife,
    only child of the Duc de Dalberg, and widow of Sir Ferdinand
    Acton.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 18th January 1842.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--Not to miss my day, I write a line to thank you for your kind letters of the
10th and 13th, but shall write fully by the messenger. Our Claremont trip was very enjoyable,
only we missed Pussy so much; another time we shall take her with us; the dear child was so
pleased to see us again, particularly dear Albert, whom she is so fond of.... We think of going
to Brighton early in February, as the physicians think it will do the children great good,
and perhaps it may me; for I am very strong as to fatigue and exertion, but not quite right
otherwise; I am growing thinner, and there is a want of tone, which the sea may correct.

Albert's great fonction[6] yesterday went off beautifully, and he was so much admired in all
ways; he always fascinates the people wherever he goes, by his very modest and unostentatious
yet dignified ways. He only came back at twelve last night; it was very kind of him to come.
The King of Prussia means, I believe, to cross on the 20th. Now addio. Ever your most affectionate
Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 6: The Prince laid the foundation stone of the new
    Royal Exchange.]

[Pageheading: THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON]

The Duke of Wellington to Queen Victoria.

LONDON, 21st January 1842.

Field-Marshal the Duke of Wellington presents his humble duty to your Majesty. He is much flattered
by your Majesty's most gracious desire that he should bear the Sword of State at the ceremony
of the christening of His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales.

He had already received from Sir Robert Peel an intimation of your Majesty's gracious pleasure
on this subject. He is in such good health, as to be able to perform any duty upon which your
Majesty may think proper to employ him; and he will attend your Majesty's gracious ceremony
at Windsor Castle on Tuesday morning, the 25th Jan. inst.

All of which is humbly submitted to your Majesty by your Majesty's most dutiful and devoted
Subject and Servant,

WELLINGTON.

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 22nd January 1842.

The Queen cannot say how grieved she is, and the Prince also, at hearing of Lord Melbourne's
serious indisposition, by his letter this morning. How very provoking if he cannot come on
Tuesday. It will be the only important ceremony during the Queen's reign which Lord Melbourne
has not been present at, and it grieves her deeply. It was already a deep mortification not
to see him in his old place, but not to see him at all is too provoking. If Lord Melbourne
should soon get well we shall hope to see him later during the King's[7] stay. The Prince is
gone to Greenwich to meet the King, and I expect them about five o'clock.

The Queen hopes to hear soon of Lord Melbourne's being better, and expresses again her very
sincere regret at his being prevented from coming.

    [Footnote 7: Frederick Wilham IV., King of Prussia.]

[Pageheading: THE SLAVE TRADE]

The Earl of Aberdeen to Queen Victoria.

28th January 1842.

Lord Aberdeen presents his most humble duty to your Majesty. Some time ago, your Majesty was
graciously pleased to express a desire to have a copy of the Treaty concluded by your Majesty
with the Four Great Powers of Europe, for the more effectual suppression of the Slave Trade.[8]
Lord Aberdeen has had one prepared for your Majesty's use, which he humbly begs to lay before
your Majesty.

In obeying your Majesty's commands Lord Aberdeen thinks it his duty, at the same time, to state
to your Majesty that, with the exception of some alterations and additions of little importance,
the Treaty in its present form had existed for a considerable time in the Foreign Office. He
found, also, that there had been a reluctance to sign it on the part of the French Government;
but as the objection was chiefly of a personal nature, it was speedily removed. The only share,
therefore, which Lord Aberdeen can properly be said to have had in this transaction is that
of having been enabled to afford your Majesty the great satisfaction of completing this blessed
work at an earlier period than would otherwise have been the case.

    [Footnote 8: The treaty conferred a mutual right of search.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

SOUTH STREET, 1st February 1842.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and has to thank your Majesty for
the letters of the 28th and the 31st ult., the last of which he received this morning.

Lord Melbourne is very glad that your Majesty opens the Parliament in person. Your Majesty
knows Lord Melbourne's opinion, that it ought always to be done, when it can be, without reference
to Ministers, politics, or political questions. Lord Melbourne hopes to be able to go to the
House in the evening, but he fears that it would be too much for him if he were to attempt
to attend also in the morning.

Lord Melbourne was in despair at hearing of poor Eos.[9] Favourites often get shot; Lord Melbourne
has known it happen often in his time. That is the worst of dogs; they add another strong interest
to a life which has already of itself interest enough, and those, God knows! sufficiently subject
both to accident and decay.

Lord Melbourne is sorry to do anything that could trouble your Majesty in the slightest degree,
but he doubts not that your Majesty is already aware of the matter, and therefore he has less
scruple in sending to your Majesty a letter[10] which he has received from the Duke of Sussex.
Upon the plea of not being well, Lord Melbourne has put off seeing the Duke upon this subject
until after Monday next, and when he does see him, he will try to keep him quiet, which your
Majesty knows when he has got a thing of this sort into his head, is no easy matter.

    [Footnote 9: A favourite greyhound of the Prince, accidentally
    shot by Prince Ferdinand. See King Leopold's letter, 4th
    February.]

    [Footnote 10: This letter is not preserved among the Queen's
    papers.]

[Pageheading: THE KING OF PRUSSIA]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 1st February 1842.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--I have to thank you for a kind, short note of the 27th inst., which I received
on Sunday. I gave your kind message to the King of Prussia, who was much touché by it. He is
a most amiable man, so kind and well-meaning, and seems so much beloved. He is so amusing too.
He is very anxious that Belgium should become liée with Germany, and I think, dearest Uncle,
that it would be for the real good of Belgium if it could be so. You will have heard how perfectly
and splendidly everything went off on the 25th. Nothing could have done better, and little
Albert (what a pleasure that he has that dearest name!) behaved so well. The King left us yesterday
morning to go to town, where we follow him to-morrow; he was quite sad to leave Windsor, which
he admired so much. He dined with the Sutherlands yesterday, and dines with the Duke of Wellington
to-day, and the Cambridges to-morrow. On Thursday he dines with us (he lodges in Buckingham
Palace), and on Friday takes his departure. He is really a most agreeable visitor, though I
must own that I am somewhat knocked up by our great exertions.

Uncle Ferdinand is very well, and we are delighted with dear Leopold;[11] he is so much improved,
and is such a modest, sensible boy.

I can't say much for poor Gusti,[12] though I love him, but he is really too odd and inanimate.
I hope Louise will see the King of Prussia. You have heard our great misfortune about dear
Eos; she is going on well, but slowly, and still makes us rather anxious. It made me quite
ill the first day, and keeps me fidgety still, till we know that she is quite safe. Ever your
devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

We were grieved to hear Papa had been so ill.

    [Footnote 11: Son of Prince Ferdinand of Saxe-Coburg, and
    brother of the King of Portugal, afterwards a candidate for
    the hand of Queen Isabella of Spain. See post, p. 487.
      (Ch. XII, Footnote 54)]

    [Footnote 12: Prince Augustus, afterwards married to the
    Princess Clémentine, daughter of King Louis Philippe.]

[Pageheading: THE KING OF PRUSSIA]

[Pageheading: BETROTHAL OF PRINCE ERNEST]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 4th February 1842.

MY DEAR VICTORIA,--Thousand thanks for your kind letter of the 1st, which I received yesterday.

The King of Prussia is a very delightful person;[13] he is so clever and amiable, and, owing
to his good-nature, not by any means fatiguing. I fear you had cold weather yesterday for the
opening of Parliament. To-day we have here a tremendous fog; Heaven grant that it may not be
so heavy on the Thames! else the King's journey will be rendered difficult.

We expect him to-morrow about eleven o'clock; he wishes to be at Antwerp at five, which would
indicate his departure from hence at three o'clock. There can be no doubt that nothing could
be better than to link this country as much as possible to Germany. The public feeling was
and is still favourable to this, but in Germany some years ago they were childishly ultra,
and kicked us off most unnecessarily, which renders everything of the sort now much less easy.
In a political point of view the King's journey will prove useful, as it takes him still more
out of the clutches of Russia and gives him more correct views of what is going on in the West
of Europe.

I wish the King may also talk to his helter-skelter cousin in Holland; if the man goes on in
his wild intrigues, though he will get most probably nothing by it himself, he may do a great
deal of harm, and may force us to incline more towards France for fear of his intrigues with
France.

I was extremely sorry to hear the accident which befell dear Eos, a great friend of mine. I
do not understand how your uncle managed it; he ought rather to have shot somebody else of
the family. Ernest has then been going on fast enough; all I hear of the lady is very satisfactory.[14]
I don't yet know when he means to come here.

Now I must conclude. In haste, ever, my dear Victoria, your affectionate Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 13: Lord Aberdeen wrote to Madame de Lieven: "I
    passed a great deal of time with the King of Prussia when he
    was in this country, and perfectly subscribe to the truth
    of the description you gave me of him before his
    arrival--intelligent, high-minded, and sincere. Like all
    Germans, he is sometimes a little in the clouds, but his
    projects are generous, and he wishes to do what is right."]

    [Footnote 14: He married the Princess Alexandrina of Baden on
    3rd May 1842.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 8th February 1842.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I thank you de tout mon c[oe]ur for your kind letter of the 4th, which I
received the day before yesterday. You have now seen our good, kind, amiable King of Prussia,
for whom I have really the greatest affection and respect. We were quite sorry to lose him,
and he was much affected at going. He is so open and natural, and seems really so anxious to
do good whenever he can. His liberality and generosity here has been immense. He is very much
displeased with his "helter-skelter cousin,"[15] and quite unhappy at the state of things in
that country....

Ernest's marriage is a great, great delight to us; thank God! I say, as I so ardently wished
it, and Alexandrina is said to be really so perfect.

Leopold is a dear, sweet boy, really, so full of feeling, and so very good-tempered and modest;
the King was charmed with him and he with the King. I am happy to say faithful Eos is quite
convalescent; she walks about wrapped up in flannel.

We are off for Brighton the day after to-morrow; I can't say I like it at all. We were, and
the boy too, all three, vaccinated from the same child yesterday! Now adieu! Ever your devoted
Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Fanny Jocelyn is taking her first waiting, and makes a most excellent and sedate Dame d'Honneur.
I am sorry she is so very thin still.

    [Footnote 15: The King of Holland. See King Leopold's letter
    of 4th February.]

[Pageheading: CHRISTENING OF PRINCE OF WALES]

Queen Adelaide to Queen Victoria.

MARLBOROUGH HOUSE, 5th February 1842.

MY DEAR NIECE,--I thank you a thousand times for your kind letter, just received, and am delighted
with the hope of seeing you, if you have time to spare, when you come to town next week. I
hardly dare to expect it, but it will make me very happy should you be able to fulfil your
kind intention.

I was happy to hear how well the holy ceremony went off on Tuesday, and how splendid the whole
was. The earnest attention of the King of Prussia to the ceremony, and the manner with which
he read the responses, was universally remarked and admired. May your dear child, our beloved
Prince of Wales, follow his pious example in future, and become as truly estimable and amiable
and good as his Godfather really is. He is indeed most charming, and so very agreeable and
affable to every one, that he must be loved and respected by all who have the good fortune
to approach him. I hope he does not over-fatigue himself, for he does a great deal in the short
time of his stay in England. He expresses himself delighted with his reception.

I regret to find that your dear little girl is still suffering so much from her teeth. God
bless and guard her and her brother!--who by all descriptions must be a very fine babe. The
King of Prussia admires little Victoria very much; he described her to me as the most lovely
child he ever saw.

I enclose the impression of my seal, according to your wish....

With my best love to dear Albert, I beg you to believe me ever, dearest Victoria, your most
attached and devoted Aunt,

ADELAIDE.

May I ask you to give my affectionate respects to the King of Prussia, and my love to your Mamma?

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

WHITEHALL, 14th February, Monday Night.

Lord John Russell was followed in the debate by Mr Gladstone, the Vice-President of the Board
of Trade, who vindicated the plan....

Sir Robert Peel had a meeting yesterday of the friends of the Government in the House of Commons,
and he is convinced that although many may have wished that the plan of the Government had
given an increased degree of protection to agriculture, the great body will support the measure,
and that we shall have no difficulty in resisting any detached efforts that may be made to
add to the duties on foreign corn.

[Pageheading: PEEL AND PRINCE ALBERT]

Sir Robert Peel to the Prince Albert.

WHITEHALL, 15th February(?) 1842.

SIR,--When I had the honour of last seeing your Royal Highness at Windsor Castle, I stated
to your Royal Highness that it would give me great satisfaction to have the opportunity from
time to time of apprising your Royal Highness of the legislative measures in contemplation
of Her Majesty's servants, and of explaining in detail any matters in respect to which your
Royal Highness might wish for information.

In conformity with this feeling on my part, I take the liberty of sending to your Royal Highness
two confidential Memoranda prepared for the information of Her Majesty's servants on the important
subjects respectively of the state of Slavery in the East Indies, and of the Poor Laws in this
country.

They may probably be interesting to your Royal Highness, and if your Royal Highness should
encourage me to do so, I will, as occasion may arise, make similar communications to your Royal
Highness. I have the honour to be, Sir, with sincere respect, your Royal Highness's most faithful
and humble servant,

ROBERT PEEL.

P.S.--I do not think that the measure which I have brought forward for the diminution of the
duties on the import of foreign corn, will deprive us of any portion of the support or goodwill
of our friends. Many wish that the reduction had not been carried so far, but almost all are
aware of the consequences of rejecting or obstructing the measure.

[Pageheading: AFGHANISTAN]

Lord Fitzgerald and Vesci to Queen Victoria.

INDIA BOARD, 1st March 1842.

Lord Fitzgerald, with his most humble duty to your Majesty, requests permission humbly to submit
to your Majesty, that the communications received yesterday at the India House present a dark
and alarming picture of the position and danger of the British troops in Afghanistan.[16]

Although the Governor-General's despatch announcing these melancholy tidings also states that
no strictly official intelligence had reached him from Cabul, yet the opinion of Lord Auckland
evidently is, that the reports on which his despatch is founded are but too likely to be true.

From them it would appear that a numerous and excited native population had succeeded in intercepting
all supplies, that the army at Cabul laboured under severe privations, and that in consequence
of the strict investment of the cantonments by the enemy, there remained, according to a letter
from the late Sir William Macnaghten to an officer with Sir Robert Sale's force, only three
days' provision in the camp.

Under such circumstances it can perhaps be but faintly hoped that any degree of gallantry and
devotion on the part of your Majesty's forces can have extricated them from the difficulties
by which they were encompassed on every side.

Capitulation had been spoken of, and it may, unhappily, have become inevitable, as the relieving
column, expected from Candahar, had been compelled by the severity of an unusual season to
retrace its march.

The despatches from Calcutta being voluminous, and embracing minute unofficial reports, Lord
Fitzgerald has extracted and copied those parts which relate to the military operations in
Afghanistan, and most humbly submits them to your Majesty.

He at the same time solicits permission to annex a précis of some of the most important of
the private letters which have been forwarded from India; and, as your Majesty was graciously
pleased to peruse with interest some passages from the first journal of Lady Sale, Lord Fitzgerald
ventures to add the further extracts, transmitted by Lord Auckland, in which Lady Sale describes
successive actions with the enemy, and paints the state of the sufferings of the army, as late
as the 9th of December.

Nothing contained in any of these communications encourages the
hope of Sir Alexander Burnes's safety. In one letter the death of
an individual is mentioned, who is described as the assassin of that
lamented officer.
     (Intro Note to Ch. X; Intro Note to Ch. XI)]

[Pageheading: A MARINE EXCURSION]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

PAVILION, 4th March 1842.

The Queen thanks Lord Melbourne for his kind letter, received the day before yesterday, by
which she is glad to see he is well, and Fanny got safe to Dublin.

Our excursion was most successful and gratifying. It rained very much all Monday evening at
Portsmouth, but, nevertheless, we visited the St Vincent and the Royal George yacht, and the
Prince went all over the Dockyards.

It stormed and rained all night, and rained when we set off on bord the Black Eagle (the Firebrand
that was) for Spithead on Tuesday morning; it, however, got quite fine when we got there, and
we went on board the Queen, and a glorious sight it was; she is a magnificent ship, so wide
and roomy, and though only just commissioned, in the best order. With marines, etc., her crew
is near upon a thousand men! We saw the men at dinner, and tasted the grog and soup, which
pleased them very much. Old Sir Edward Owen is very proud of her.

It was a great pleasure for the Queen to be at sea again, and not a creature thought even of
being sick. The saluting of all those great ships in the harbour at once, as we came out and
returned, has a splendid effect.

The Queen was also much pleased at seeing four of the crew of the Emerald again whom she knew
so well nine years ago! The Prince was delighted with all he saw, as were also our Uncle and
Cousins; these last, we are sorry to say, leave us on Monday,--and we go up to Town on Tuesday,
where the Queen hopes to see Lord Melbourne soon.

The Queen sends Lord Melbourne a letter from the Queen of Portugal, all which tends to show
how wrong it is to think that they connive at the restoration of the Charter....

Lady Dunmore is in waiting, and makes an excellent Lady-in-Waiting. Lord Hardwicke the Queen
likes very much, he seems so straightforward. He took the greatest care of the Queen when on
board ship.

Was not his father drowned at Spithead or Portsmouth?[17]

The Queen hopes to hear that Lord Melbourne is very well.

    [Footnote 17: "His father, Sir Joseph Yorke," Lord Melbourne
    replied, "was drowned in the Southampton River, off Netley
    Abbey, when sailing for pleasure. The boat was supposed to
    have been struck by lightning. His cousin, Lord Royston,
    was drowned in the year 1807 in the Baltic, at Cronstadt"
    [according to Burke in 1808, off Lubeck, æt. twenty-three],
    "which event, together with the death of two younger sons of
    Lord Hardwicke, gave the earldom ultimately to the present
    Lord."]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

PAVILION, 7th March 1842.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--As I wrote you so long a letter yesterday, I shall only write you a few lines
to-day, to thank you for your kind letter of the 4th, received yesterday. Our dear Uncle and
dear Cousins have just left us, and we are very sorry to see them go; for the longer one is
together the more intimate one gets, and they were quite become as belonging to us, and were
so quiet and unassuming, that we shall miss them much, particularly dear Leopold, whom poor
Uncle Ferdinand recommended to my especial care, and therefore am really very anxious that
we should settle something for his future. Uncle Ferdinand likes the idea of his passing some
time at Brussels, and some time here, very much, and I hope we may be able to settle that.
Uncle and Cousins were sorry to go.

You will have heard how well our Portsmouth expedition went off; the sea was quite smooth on
Tuesday, and we had a delightful visit to the Queen, which is a splendid ship. I think it is
in these immense wooden walls that our real greatness exists, and I am proud to think that
no other nation can equal us in this....

Now addio! Ever your most affectionate Niece,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: THE FALL OF CABUL]

Lord Fitzgerald and Vesci to Queen Victoria.

They are to be found in a despatch from the Governor and Council of Bombay, and unhappily confirm,
to an appalling degree, the disastrous intelligence from Afghanistan. The commercial expresses,
which reached London yesterday, gave to the public some of the details of the fall of Cabul;
and Lord Fitzgerald laments that it is his painful duty most humbly to inform your Majesty
that the despatches just arrived confirm to their full extent the particulars of Sir William
Macnaghten's fate, and of the fate of that remnant of gallant men who, on the faith of a capitulation,
had evacuated that cantonment which they had defended with unavailing courage.

In addition to the despatch from the Council of Bombay, Lord Fitzgerald humbly ventures to
submit to your Majesty a letter addressed to him by Mr Anderson, the Acting-Governor of that
Presidency, with further details of these melancholy events.

The despatches from the Governor-General of India come down to the date of the 22nd of January
(three days previous to the tragical death of Sir William Macnaghten). Lord Auckland was then
uninformed of the actual state of the force in Cabul, though not unprepared for severe reverses.

[Pageheading: THE GARTER]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

WHITEHALL, 20th March 1842.

Sir Robert Peel presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and will take an opportunity to-morrow
of ascertaining your Majesty's pleasure with respect to the remaining Garter which still remains
undisposed of, as your Majesty may probably think it advisable that the Investiture of all
the Knights selected for the vacant Garters should take place at the same time.

Sir Robert Peel humbly represents to your Majesty that those Peers who may severally be considered
from their rank and station candidates for this high distinction, have behaved very well in
respect to it, as since Sir Robert Peel has had the honour of serving your Majesty he has never
received, excepting in the cases of the Duke of Buckingham and recently of Lord Cardigan, a
direct application on the subject of the Garter.

Of those who from their position and rank in the Peerage, and from the Garter having been heretofore
conferred on their ancestors or relations, may be regarded as competitors, the principal appear
to Sir Robert Peel to be the following:--

  The Duke of Cleveland
  The Duke of Montrose
  The Marquis of Hertford
  The Marquis of Bute
  The Marquis of Abercorn
  The Marquis Camden
  The Marquis of Londonderry.

Sir Robert Peel names all, without meaning to imply that the pretensions of all are very valid
ones. He would humbly represent for your Majesty's consideration, whether on account of rank,
fortune and general character and station in the country, the claims of the Duke of Cleveland
do not upon the whole predominate.[18]

His Grace is very much mortified and disappointed at Sir Robert Peel's having humbly advised
your Majesty to apply the general rule against the son's succeeding the father immediately
in the Lieutenancy of a county to his case in reference to his county of Durham.

Sir Robert Peel thinks it better to write to your Majesty upon this subject, as your Majesty
may wish to have an opportunity of considering it.

    [Footnote 18: The Garter was conferred on the Duke of
    Cleveland.]

[Pageheading: THE EARL OF MUNSTER]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN AND THE INCOME TAX]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

SOUTH STREET, 21st March 1842.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. A letter from Charles Fox to Lady
Holland, and which she has sent to me, informs me of the shocking end of Munster,[19] which
your Majesty will have heard long before you receive this. Charles Fox attributes it entirely
to the vexatious and uneasy life which he led with Lady Munster, but he was always, as your
Majesty knows, an unhappy and discontented man, and there is something in that unfortunate
condition of illegitimacy which seems to distort the mind and feelings and render them incapable
of justice or contentment.

It is not impossible that upon this event application may be made to your Majesty for the continuance
of the pension upon the Privy Purse to his son. As Lord Melbourne advised your Majesty to continue
these pensions upon the late King's death, perhaps it may not be improper that he should now
say that it is his strong opinion that they should not be continued further. There is no reason
for it. They are not very rich, but neither are they poor, and they have very opulent connections
and relations. It appears to me that the first opportunity should be taken to show that it
is not your Majesty's intention to charge the Crown with the maintenance and support of all
these families, which will otherwise be the case. Lord Melbourne thinks it not improper to
mention this matter thus early, as otherwise the [compassionate] feelings naturally raised
by such an event might lead to a different determination.

There is another matter mentioned in your Majesty's letter, relating to money, which is of
considerable importance, and that is the determination taken by your Majesty to subject your
own provision to the proposed duty on income. When it was put to your Majesty Lord Melbourne
is disposed to think that your Majesty's determination[20] was right, and it certainly will
be very popular, which in the present circumstances of the country and state of public feelings
is a great advantage.

At the same time it is giving up a principle of the Constitution, which has hitherto exempted
the Sovereign from all direct taxation, and there are very great doubts entertained whether
the announcement to Parliament of the intention was not in a constitutional point of view objectionable,
inasmuch as it pronounced the opinion of the Crown upon a tax which was still under discussion.
It is also a great pecuniary sacrifice, and, as your Majesty says, together with the loss of
the Duchy of Cornwall and other revenues, will make a great change in your Majesty's pecuniary
circumstances. These defalcations can only be repaired by care and economy. Your Majesty has
all the most right feelings and the best judgment about money, and Lord Melbourne has no doubt
that your Majesty will so act as to avoid pecuniary embarrassment--the only difficulty which
Lord Melbourne fears for your Majesty, and the only contingency which could involve your Majesty
in serious personal inconvenience.

Lord Melbourne thanks your Majesty much for the kindness of your letter....

Everybody says that the marriage between Miss Stuart and Lord Waterford[21] is likely to take
place. It is said that he would do almost anything rather than go to St. Petersburg. Lord Melbourne
has not seen Lord Waterford, but he is said to be very good-looking; we know him to be rich
and of high rank, and, after all, that sort of character is not disliked by all ladies. Perhaps
also she counts upon the effect of her influence to soften, to tranquillise, and to restrain.

Lord Melbourne hears a very bad account of Lord Anglesey's affairs. His case is a hard one,
for these pecuniary difficulties are owing to the extravagance of others, and by no means to
his own. Lord Melbourne saw Uxbridge and Ellen at Lady Palmerston's on Saturday evening. The
latter seemed in good spirits, and said that she did not mean to shut herself up too closely
in Hertfordshire.

Lord Melbourne thought that your Majesty would be pleased with Lambeth. The view from the great
window in the drawing-room over the river, and to the Houses of Parliament and the Abbey, is
very fine indeed, but like all London views can rarely be seen in consequence of the foggy
atmosphere....

No doubt your Majesty and His Royal Highness must be anxious for a little quiet and repose,
which Lord Melbourne hopes that your Majesty will enjoy. Lord Melbourne had feared that your
Majesty's health was not quite so good as it appeared.... Lord Melbourne concludes this very
long letter with the most fervent expression of his most sincere wishes for your Majesty's
health and happiness.

Lord Melbourne in speaking of poor Lord Munster forgot to mention that at the Levée on Wednesday
last he followed Lord Melbourne down the long gallery as he was going away, came up to him
with great emotion of manner, pressed his hand warmly, and said that he wished to take the
earliest opportunity of thanking Lord Melbourne for all the kindness he had shown him whilst
he had been in office.

    [Footnote 19: The Earl of Munster, son of William IV. and Mrs.
    Jordan, shot himself, 20th March. His wife was a daughter of
    the Earl of Egremont.]

    [Footnote 20: The Queen had decided that she would herself pay
    Income Tax.]

    [Footnote 21: Henry, third Marquis, and Louisa, second
    daughter of Lord Stuart de Rothesay, were married on 8th
    June.]

[Pageheading: STRAWBERRY HILL]

[Pageheading: THE ROYAL GOVERNESS]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. He is much rejoiced to learn that your Majesty has had
fine weather and has enjoyed it. It rained here hard yesterday in the morning, but cleared
up about half-past twelve and was very fine indeed. Lord Melbourne went over to Brocket Hall
and enjoyed it much. He does not intend to return to London until Monday next, when the House
of Lords reassembles. It is to be hoped that we shall then soon have the Corn Bill up from
the Commons and pass it. The Income Tax will give some trouble, but that done, and the Poor
Law Bill, the end of the Session may begin to be looked forward to.

The sale of Strawberry Hill[22] naturally excites interest, and things are not unlikely to
be sold high. The collection has after all been kept together, and the place has remained in
the family of his niece,[23] the Duchess of Gloucester, to whom he bequeathed it, longer than
he himself expected. He says in one of his letters that he would send a statue down to Linton,
Sir Horace Mann's place in Kent, because there it had a better chance of remaining permanently,
"for as to this poor bauble of a place," he adds, "it will be knocked to pieces in a very few
years after my decease." It has stood, however, and remained five-and-forty years, a longer
period than he had anticipated. Some of the works, such as the bell by Benvenuto Cellini, and
the antique Eagle, are very fine; others are only curious. Lord Melbourne would not give much
money for a mere curiosity, unless there were also some intrinsic merits or beauty.

What is the value of Cardinal Wolsey's cap, for instance? It was not different from that of
any other Cardinal, and a Cardinal's cap is no great wonder.

Lord Melbourne returns Lord Munster's letter. It is without date, but was evidently written
in contemplation of the dreadful act which he afterwards perpetrated. It is very melancholy.
Lord Melbourne was certain that your Majesty would send to Lord Adolphus[24] the assurance
which you have done, and that you would be anxious to assist his children, and promote their
interests by every means in your power. But both their brothers and they must be made sensible
that they must make some effort for themselves.

Lord Melbourne is very glad to learn that your Majesty intends to offer the Round Tower[25]
to the Duke of Sussex. It is in every respect kind. It will be of essential service to him,
and it will gratify him most exceedingly.

Lord Melbourne thinks that your Majesty's decision respecting the Governess[26] is right. It
should be a lady of rank; but that she should be a woman of sense and discretion, and capable
of fulfilling the duties of the office, is of more importance than whether she is a Duchess,
a Marchioness, or a Countess. The selection is difficult, but if your Majesty can find a person,
it would not be well to consider either high or low rank as a disqualification.

Lord Melbourne intends to take advantage of his freedom from the restraints of office in order
to see a little of the bloom of spring and summer, which he has missed for so many years. He
has got one or two horses, which he likes well enough, and has begun to ride again a little.
Lord Melbourne wishes your Majesty much of the same enjoyment, together with all health, happiness,
and prosperity.

    [Footnote 22: Near Twickenham, formerly the residence of
    Horace Walpole, and filled with his collection of pictures and
    objets de vertu.]

    [Footnote 23: The Duke of Gloucester, brother of George
    III., married in 1766 Maria, Countess-Dowager Waldegrave,
    illegitimate daughter of Sir Edward Walpole, and niece of
    Horace Walpole. This, and the Duke of Cumberland's marriage in
    1771 to Lady Anne Horton, occasioned the passing of the Royal
    Marriages Act.]

    [Footnote 24: Lord Adolphus FitzClarence (1802-1856), a
    Rear-Admiral, brother of the Earl of Munster.]

    [Footnote 25: The Earl of Munster had held the office of
    Governor and Constable of Windsor Castle, with a salary of
    £1,000 a year.]

    [Footnote 26: To the Royal children. Lady Lyttelton was
    ultimately appointed.]

[Pageheading: PARTY POLITICS]

[Pageheading: THE GARTER]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Your Majesty may depend upon it that Lord Melbourne will
do everything in his power to discourage and restrain factious and vexatious opposition, not
only on account of your Majesty's wish, but because he disapproves it as much as your Majesty
can possibly do. But everything in his power he fears is but little. The leaders of a party,
or those who are so called, have but little sway over their followers, particularly when not
in Government, and when they have it not in their power to threaten them with any very serious
consequences, such as the dissolution of the Administration. Mr Pulteney, afterwards Earl of
Bath, is reported to have said that political parties were like snakes, guided not by their
heads, but by their tails. Lord Melbourne does not know whether this is true of the snake,
but it is certainly so of the party. The conduct of the Opposition upon the resolution respecting
the Income Tax is rendered peculiarly ridiculous by the result. They forcibly put it off until
after the holidays, and then upon the first day of the meeting they vote it without a division.
What is this but admitting that they looked to a movement in the country which they have not
been able to create? Moreover, all Oppositions that Lord Melbourne has ever seen are more or
less factious. The Opposition of Mr Fox to Mr Pitt was the least so, but these were great men,
greater than any that exist at the present day, although Lord Melbourne is by no means inclined
to depreciate his own times. The factiousness of one Opposition naturally produces the same
in the next. They say, "They did so to us; why should we not do so to them?" Your Majesty may
rest assured that Lord Melbourne will do everything he can to prevent delay, and to accelerate
the transaction of the public business.

Lord Melbourne sends a letter which he has received this morning from the Duke of Sussex, and
which expresses very right and proper feeling. Lord Melbourne has written in reply that, "Your
Majesty was no doubt influenced principally by your natural affection for him, and by your
sense of the generosity of his conduct towards Lord Munster, but that if any thought of Lord
Melbourne intervened, your Majesty could not have given a higher or a more acceptable proof
of your approbation and regard."

The Garters[27] seem to Lord Melbourne to be given well enough. Your Majesty's feelings upon
the subject are most kind and amiable. But these things cannot be helped, and it is upon the
whole advantageous that each party should have their portion of patronage and honours. If there
is very distinguished service, the Garter should be bestowed upon it. Otherwise, in Lord Melbourne's
opinion, it is better given to noblemen of high rank and great property. The chapter in Ecclesiasticus,
read in St George's Chapel on Obiit Sunday, well describes those who ought to have it, with
the exception of those "who find out musical tunes." Lord Melbourne does not think it well
given to Ministers. It is always then subject to the imputation of their giving it to themselves,
and pronouncing an approbation of their own conduct.

Lord Melbourne hopes that the Pope's standing sponsor for the young Prince of Portugal is a
sign of complete reconciliation with the See of Rome. It is a very awkward thing for a Roman
Catholic Government to be at variance with the Pope. He is still a very ugly customer.

Lord Melbourne is very much concerned to hear of the Baron's[28] illness--very much indeed;
he is an excellent and most valuable man, with one of the soundest and coolest judgments that
Lord Melbourne has ever met with. Your Majesty knows that Lord Melbourne has never had a favourable
opinion of his health. There seems to be about him a settled weakness of the stomach, which
is in fact the seat of health, strength, thought and life. Lord Melbourne sees that a great
physician says that Napoleon lost the battle of Leipsic in consequence of some very greasy
soup which he ate the day before, and which clouded his judgment and obscured his perceptions.

Lord Melbourne is very glad to hear that your Majesty has amused yourself so well in the country,
and is not surprised that you are unwilling to quit it. He means himself to see a little of
the coming in of the spring, which he has not done for many years.

    [Footnote 27: The recipients had been the King of Saxony,
    the Duke of Beaufort, the Duke of Buckingham, the Marquess of
    Salisbury, the Duke of Cleveland.]

    [Footnote 28: Baron Stockmar.]

[Pageheading: A BRILLIANT BALL]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 19th April 1842.

DEAREST UNCLE,--I am so sorry to see by your kind letter of the 15th that you are all so enrhumés,
but hear to-day from Vecto that Charlotte is quite well again. I am quite bewildered with all
the arrangements for our bal costumé, which I wish you could see; we are to be Edward III.
and Queen Philippa, and a great number of our Court to be dressed like the people in those
times, and very correctly, so as to make a grand Aufzug; but there is such asking, and so many
silks and drawings and crowns, and God knows what, to look at, that I, who hate being troubled
about dress, am quite confuse.

To get a little rest we mean to run down to Claremont with the children from Friday to Monday.
My last ball was very splendid, and I have a concert on Monday next....

I hope Ernest and dear Alexandrine will come in June, and stay some time quietly with us in
the country. I saw another beautiful letter of hers, so well and sensibly and religiously written,
it would have pleased you. Now adieu! Lord Melbourne has been so much occupied with the debates
in the House of Lords during the last two days, that he has ventured to put off replying to
your Majesty's letters, which he trusts that your Majesty will excuse.

Lord Melbourne did not leave the ball until ten minutes after one, and as there were so many
persons there, which Lord Melbourne thinks quite right and was very glad to see, Lord Melbourne
had little hope of seeing your Majesty again, and therefore ventured to take advantage of having
ordered his carriage at half-past twelve and of its having come at the time that it was ordered.
It was a very brilliant and very beautiful and a very gay ball.

Lord Melbourne is very sorry to be obliged to express his fear that your Majesty will prove
more in the right than he was about the duration of Parliament. There will be much debate in
the Committee upon the details of the Income Tax, and the discussions upon the Tariff of duties,
which affects so many interests, are likely to be very long indeed. There is one good thing
in the House of Lords, and that is that it never much delays or obstructs public business....

As Lord Melbourne drove down the Park on Saturday evening last to dine with his sister, he
could see clearly into your Majesty's room, so as to be able to distinguish the pictures, tables,
etc., the candles being lighted and the curtains not drawn. Your Majesty was just setting off
for the Opera.

[Pageheading: PRINCE ALBERT AND THE ARMY]

Queen Victoria to Sir Robert Peel.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 20th April 1842.

The Queen encloses the Prince's letter to Sir Robert Peel, containing his acceptance of the
Guards. At the same time, both the Prince and Queen feel much regret at the Prince's leaving
the 11th, which is, if possible, enhanced by seeing the Regiment out to-day, which is in beautiful
order. It was, besides, the Regiment which escorted the Prince from Dover to Canterbury on
his arrival in England in February '40. The Queen fears, indeed knows, that Lord Cardigan will
be deeply mortified at the Prince's leaving the Regiment, and that it will have the effect
of appearing like another slight to him; therefore, the Queen much wishes that at some fit
opportunity[29] a mark of favour should be bestowed upon him....

The Queen hopes Sir Robert will think of this.

    [Footnote 29: Lord Cardigan was promoted Major-General in
    1847. He became Inspector-General of Cavalry, and received the
    K.C.B. in 1855.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Lord Melbourne learns with the greatest satisfaction
that Lady Lyttelton has undertaken the important and interesting charge, for which she is so
well fitted. Lord Melbourne is most sincerely of opinion that no other person so well qualified
could have been selected. Lord Melbourne will keep the matter strictly secret; he has not yet
mentioned it to any one, nor has he heard it mentioned by any other person, which, as it must
be known to some, rather surprises him. Unreserved approbation cannot be expected for anything,
but when it is known, Lord Melbourne anticipates that it will meet with as general an assent
as could be anticipated for a choice in which all the community will take, and indeed have,
so deep an interest.

[Pageheading: GOETHE AND SCHILLER]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

BROCKET HALL, 15th May 1842.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. He is very sorry indeed, and entreats
your Majesty's pardon for his great omission on Monday evening. He was never told that he was
to pass before your Majesty at the beginning; at the same time he admits that it was a blundering
piece of stupidity not to find this out of himself. After this he never saw the glimmer of
a chance of being able to get near to your Majesty.

Lord Melbourne wonders much who could have whispered to your Majesty that he felt or expressed
anything but the most unqualified admiration of the ball, which was the most magnificent and
beautiful spectacle that he ever beheld. Lord Melbourne also believes it to be very popular,
for the reasons which your Majesty mentions.

Your Majesty having generally chosen handsome and attractive girls for the Maids of Honour,
which is very right, must expect to lose them in this way. Lord Melbourne is very glad of the
marriage. Lord Emlyn[30] always seemed to him a very pleasing young man, and well calculated
to make a woman happy.

Lord Melbourne felt quite sure that there had been a mistake about Ben Stanley, which was the
reason that he mentioned his name. He is sorry that he has made a fool of himself by writing.
Having had so much to do with invitations during the two last years, he was not altogether
unnaturally mortified to find himself not invited there.[31] Stanley is not a man to whom Lord
Melbourne is very partial, but we must give every one his due. Lord Melbourne always discourages
to the utmost of his power the notion of any one's having a right or claim to be asked, which
notion, however, has a strong possession of the minds of people in general.

Lord Melbourne is come down here again, being determined to see this spring thoroughly and
completely. His feelings are like those, so beautifully described by Schiller, of Max Piccolomini,[32]
when, after a youth passed entirely in war, he for the first time sees a country which has
enjoyed the blessings of peace. The Germans seem to Lord Melbourne generally to prefer Goethe
to Schiller, a decision which surprises him, although he feels that he has no right to dictate
to a people, of whose language he does not understand a word, their judgment upon their own
authors. But the one, Schiller, seems to him to be all truth, clearness, nature and beauty;
the other, principally mysticism, obscurity, and unintelligibility.

Lord Melbourne intends to return on Wednesday, and will have the honour and pleasure of waiting
upon your Majesty on Thursday.

    [Footnote 30: The second Earl Cawdor, who married Miss Sarah
    Mary Cavendish.]

    [Footnote 31: Edward John, afterwards second Lord Stanley of
    Alderley, was nicknamed Ben, after "Sir Benjamin Backbite."
    He had mentioned to Lord Melbourne that he was disappointed at
    not receiving an invitation to the Royal Ball.]

    [Footnote 32: In the Wallenstein Trilogy.]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 20th May 1842.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I found here yesterday a very long and dear letter from your august hand,
which made me very happy. Your fête I believe to have been most probably one of the most splendid
ever given. There is hardly a country where so much magnificence exists; Austria has some of
the means, but the Court is not elegant from its nature. We regret sincerely not to have been
able to witness it, and will admire the exhibition of your splendid costume.

[Pageheading: MR EDWIN LANDSEER]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

WHITEHALL, 27th May 1842.

... Sir Robert Peel humbly submits his opinion to your Majesty that Mr Landseer's eminence
as an artist would fully justify his having the honour of Knighthood, and would not give any
legitimate ground of complaint to any other artist on account of a similar distinction not
being conferred on him.

Sir Robert Peel proposes therefore to write to Mr Landseer on the subject, as your Majesty's
opinion appears to be in favour of his name appearing with the others, should he wish for the
distinction....

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 28th May 1842.

The Queen is quite vexed at having been quite unable to write to Lord Melbourne sooner, but
we have been so occupied that she could not. She was so vexed too to have not had her head
turned the other way when she met him yesterday, but she was looking at the Prince, her Uncle,
and Cousins riding, and only turned to see Lord Melbourne's groom whom she instantly recognised,
but too late, alas! The Queen spent a very merry, happy birthday at dear old Claremont, and
we finished by dancing in the gallery. She was grieved Lord Melbourne could not be there.

We have got our dear Uncle Mensdorff[33] and his four sons here, which is a great happiness
to us. Dear Uncle (who Lord Melbourne is aware is a most distinguished officer) is a delightful
and amiable old man, and the sons are all so nice and amiable and kind and good; Lord Melbourne
remembers seeing Alexander here in 1839, and that the Queen was very partial to him. The two
eldest and the youngest--Hugo, Alphonse, and Arthur--are all amiable, though none near so good-looking,
but so very well brought up and so unassuming. The second is very clever. And it is quite beautiful
to see the love the father has for his sons, and vice versâ--and the affection the four brothers
have for one another; this is so rarely seen that it does one's heart good to witness it. The
Queen has appointed the Duchess of Norfolk in Lady Lyttelton's place, and intends appointing
Lady Canning in Lady Dalhousie's, who has resigned from ill-health.

Lady Lyttelton is established here in her new office, and does everything admirably.

The Queen must conclude here as she has got so much to do--hoping Lord Melbourne is well.

    [Footnote 33: See p. 97.]

[Pageheading: LANDSEER DECLINES KNIGHTHOOD]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

WHITEHALL, 31st May 1842.

Mr Landseer repeated his expressions of deep and sincere gratitude for the favour and kindness
with which your Majesty had contemplated his claims for professional distinction, but appeared
to retain the impression that he had yet scarcely done enough to entitle him to the honour
which it was contemplated to bestow upon him.

In the course of conversation he observed that he was now occupied upon works of a more important
character than any that he had yet completed, and mentioned particularly an equestrian portrait
of your Majesty. He said that when these works were finished, and should they prove successful
and meet with your Majesty's approbation, he might feel himself better entitled to receive
a mark of your Majesty's favour.

As these were evidently his sincere impressions and wishes, Sir Robert Peel forbore from pressing
upon him the immediate acceptance of the honour of Knighthood.

[Pageheading: ATTEMPT ON THE QUEEN]

[Pageheading: JOHN FRANCIS]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 31st May 1842.

MY DEAREST UNCLE.--I wish to be the first to inform you of what happened yesterday evening,
and to tell you that we are saines et sauves. On returning from the chapel on Sunday, Albert
was observing how civil the people were, and then suddenly turned to me and said it appeared
to him as though a man had held out a pistol to the carriage, and that it had hung fire; accordingly,
when we came home he mentioned it to Colonel Arbuthnot, who was only to tell it to Sir J. Graham
and Sir Robert Peel, and have the police instructed, and nobody else. No one, however, who
was with us, such as footmen, etc., had seen anything at all. Albert began to doubt what he
believed he had seen. Well, yesterday morning (Monday) a lad came to Murray[34] (who of course
knew nothing) and said that he saw a man in the crowd as we came home from church, present
a pistol to the carriage, which, however, did not go off, and heard the man say, "Fool that
I was not to fire!" The man then vanished, and this boy followed another man (an old man) up
St James's Street who repeated twice, "How very extraordinary!" but instead of saying anything
to the police, asked the boy for his direction and disappeared. The boy accordingly was sent
to Sir Robert Peel, and (doubtful as it all still was) every precaution was taken, still keeping
the thing completely secret, not a soul in the house knowing a word, and accordingly after
some consultation, as nothing could be done, we drove out--many police then in plain clothes
being distributed in and about the parks, and the two Equerries riding so close on each side
that they must have been hit, if anybody had; still the feeling of looking out for such a man
was not des plus agréables; however, we drove through the parks, up to Hampstead, and back
again. All was so quiet that we almost thought of nothing,--when, as we drove down Constitution
Hill, very fast, we heard the report of a pistol, but not at all loud, so that had we not been
on the alert we should hardly have taken notice of it. We saw the man seized by a policeman
next to whom he was standing when he fired, but we did not stop. Colonel Arbuthnot and two
others saw him take aim, but we only heard the report (looking both the other way). We felt
both very glad that our drive had had the effect of having the man seized. Whether it was loaded
or not we cannot yet tell, but we are again full of gratitude to Providence for invariably
protecting us! The feeling of horror is very great in the public, and great affection is shown
us. The man was yesterday examined at the Home Office, is called John Francis, is a cabinet-maker,
and son of a machine-maker of Covent Garden Theatre, is good-looking (they say). I have never
seen him at all close, but Arbuthnot gave the description of him from what he saw on Sunday,
which exactly answered. Only twenty or twenty-one years old, and not the least mad--but very
cunning. The boy identified him this morning, amongst many others. Everything is to be kept
secret this time, which is very right, and altogether I think it is being well done. Every
further particular you shall hear. I was really not at all frightened, and feel very proud
at dear Uncle Mensdorff calling me "sehr muthig," which I shall ever remember with peculiar
pride, coming from so distinguished an officer as he is! Thank God, my Angel is also well!
but he says that had the man fired on Sunday, he must have been hit in the head! God is merciful;
that indeed we must feel daily more! Uncle and cousins were quite horrified.... Ever your devoted
Niece,

VICTORIA R.

You will tell Louise all, of course.

    [Footnote 34: The Hon. Charles Augustus Murray, Master of the
    Household, afterwards Consul-General of Egypt, and Minister in
    Persia and at Dresden.]

Queen Adelaide to Queen Victoria.

BUSHEY HOUSE (Monday night), May 1842.

MY DEAR NIECE,--I must write a line to express to you what I felt when I took up the newspapers
which informed me of what had happened yesterday. Is it possible?--can it be true? was my first
question. However, the detailed accounts leave no doubt that a pistol was pointed at you again,
though not fired. It is really shocking that such wretches exist who dare tempt (sic) to alarm
you--though in this instance there was nothing alarming except the evil spirit which inspired
the boy.

How grateful must we not feel to our merciful God, who protects you so visibly, and gives you
courage and confidence in Him, who is and ever will be your safest guard and support. Trust
in Him and you will not fail to be well guided.

I hope it is true that you were not aware of what had happened when you went to church, not
to be disturbed in your devotions, and that the account did not agitate you.

Edward[35] came yesterday from town, but he knew nothing but that a pistol had been taken from
a man in the Park. We hardly believed the story till the papers informed us of the truth. Pray
say to dear Albert what I feel for and with you both, and how I thank God and pray that His
merciful protection may never fail you.

We are going to Frogmore to-morrow, and from there shall drive in the Park and to St George's
Chapel. I hope the weather will be as fine as it was to-day. God bless and guard you ever and
ever! dearest Victoria, prays your most devotedly attached Aunt,

ADELAIDE.

    [Footnote 35: Prince Edward of Saxe-Weimar.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

SOUTH STREET, 1st June 1842.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. He was much shocked at learning, which
he did not do until six o'clock yesterday evening, the event which took place on Monday. After
what took place on Sunday, it must have been a trial to your Majesty's nerves, and still more
to those of the Prince, to go out on Monday; but it appears to Lord Melbourne that your Majesty
judged quite correctly in doing so. Lord Melbourne hardly knows what to say of this repeated
attempt. It is a depravity and a malice as unintelligible as it is atrocious. Lord Melbourne
is at least as grateful as any one of your Majesty's subjects, and the gratitude is universal
and fervent for your Majesty's safety.

Lord Melbourne had ridden over in the morning to visit Lord and Lady Uxbridge in their rural
retirement, and upon his return to Brocket Hall, about six o'clock, found the morning newspaper
with the accounts of what had happened. If they had sent him down a messenger on Monday night,
which it would have been better to have done, he would have been yesterday in his place in
the House of Lords.

Lord Melbourne found Uxbridge enveloped in parcels and boxes, which he was busy unpacking,
Lady Uxbridge reclining by the stream under the shade of a plane-tree, and the two young ladies
somewhat pensive. The place looked beautiful, but Lord Melbourne fears that all its beauty
will not be a compensation to them for London at this time of the year.

[Pageheading: THE ADDRESS]

Sir James Graham to Queen Victoria.

WHITEHALL, 1st June 1842.

Sir James Graham, with humble duty to your Majesty, submits a copy of the Answer to the Address;
and an alteration has been made in the Answer which Sir James Graham hopes may render it conformable
to the tender and generous feelings which your Majesty has deigned to express with reference
to the Prince.

The two Houses of Parliament followed the exact precedent which has been established in Oxford's
case; and although the life of the Prince, so dear to your Majesty, is highly valued by all
your loving subjects, yet the crime of treason attaches only to an attack on the sacred person
of your Majesty; and the expressions used by Parliament with reference to these atrocious crimes,
when directed against the Sovereign, are necessarily inapplicable to any other person, and
could not be used with propriety. Hence the omission in the former case of all allusion to
the Prince; and the silence of Parliament on the present occasion is to be ascribed to the
same cause--not to any cold indifference, which the general feeling of attachment to the Prince
entirely forbids.

The above is humbly submitted by your Majesty's dutiful Subject and Servant,

J. R. G. GRAHAM.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 6th June 1842.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I was sure of the kind interest you would take in the event of the 29th
and 30th. I am most thankful for your very kind, long letter of the 3rd, which I received the
day before yesterday. I have so little time--as we are just setting off for Ascot--that I can
hardly write anything to you. There seems no doubt whatever that Francis is totally without
accomplices, and a mauvais sujet. We shall be able probably to tell you more when we see you.
I am grieved that you have deferred your visit again. We are then to expect your arrival either
on the Tuesday or Wednesday? Very thankful we should be soon to hear whom you bring with you.

Dear Uncle and the Cousins are delighted with Windsor, and the weather is beautiful, only unfortunately
too hot to be pleasant. I rode on my little Barb at a review of Cavalry at Wormwood Scrubbs
on Saturday, dont je suis bien fière. Now adieu! dearest Uncle. In haste, your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: NEWS FROM AFGHANISTAN]

[Pageheading: SALE AND POLLOCK]

Lord Fitzgerald and Vesci to Queen Victoria.

INDIA BOARD, 7th June 1842.

Lord Fitzgerald, with his most humble duty to your Majesty, humbly acquaints your Majesty that
despatches have been this day received from the Governor-General and the several Presidencies
of India.

They announce a signal victory, achieved by Sir Robert Sale and his admirable garrison.[36]

The circumstances attending his glorious success, and the consequences likely to result from
it, are amongst the most important of this hurtful war.

They are described in Sir Robert Sale's Report, as published in the Bombay Gazette, a copy
of which is most humbly submitted to your Majesty.

The despatches further bring the gratifying intelligence that General Pollock had forced the
Khyber Pass, and, defeating the enemy on every point, had surmounted the chief obstacles of
that dangerous defile.[37]

The relief of the brave men under Sir Robert Sale, to which their own gallantry and their late
victory have so mainly contributed, may now be regarded as certain from the success of General
Pollock's advance.

It is with regret that Lord Fitzgerald has to add that the citadel of Ghuznee has surrendered
on the faith of a capitulation, perhaps already violated, and that General England, who had
marched with a convoy of treasure, and other supplies for the Army at Candahar, had been forced
to retrace his steps and had arrived at Quetta.

At the same time, however, General Nott had dispersed considerable assemblages of rebel tribes,
whom he had defeated with loss, while an attack made during his absence on the city of Candahar
had been effectually repulsed by that portion of his force which had been left for its defence.

The Governor-General having proceeded in person to the North-Western Provinces of Bengal, had
issued at Benares General Orders congratulating the Army on the return of victory to its ranks,
and on the fresh lustre thus added to your Majesty's Arms.

FITZGERALD AND VESCI.

    [Footnote 36: Sir R. Sale, who with his column had thrown
    himself into Jellalabad on 13th November 1841, and had heard
    Brydon's narrative, made a sortie on 7th April, and secured
    a great victory over Akbar Khan, whose force outnumbered
    Sale's by five to one.]

    [Footnote 37: General Pollock, whom Auckland had selected
    for the command, and who found everything in confusion on the
    frontier, swept the Khyber Pass of the enemy, and joined
    Sale. The insurrection had spread to Candahar, where General
    (afterwards Sir William) Nott was in command with a force of
    10,000 men. He heard of Macnaghten's murder on 31st January,
    and, like Sale, refused to follow the order received (under
    coercion, as he believed) from Elphinstone to return to India.
    On the contrary, he ordered all Afghans to leave Candahar,
    marched out himself and attacked and dispersed the enemy,
    12,000 strong; while a flank movement made by the enemy on
    the city was repulsed with great loss. General (afterwards Sir
    Richard) England started from Quetta with reinforcements, but
    met with a reverse at Haikalzai; meanwhile also Colonel
    Palmer had had to make terms at Ghuznee, and had to encounter
    treachery. He has
thought it better not to interrupt your Majesty with letters during
the bustle of the last week, but he cannot omit to express to your
Majesty how much he was struck with the letter of the 2nd inst. which
he received, and how entirely he concurs in the justice and propriety
of your Majesty's feelings and observations. Let us hope that we shall
have no more of these horrid attempts, which are generated by the
wild notions of the time, and by the expectation, extravagant and
unfounded, so industriously inculcated into the public mind, of
advantages to be derived from change and confusion; Lord Melbourne
anxiously hopes that the painful impressions which such events
are calculated to produce upon your Majesty's mind, and which they
necessarily must produce, will pass away and that nothing will happen
to renew and revive them.

Lord Melbourne is happy to hear from Normanby that everything passed off well and successfully
at Windsor and at Ascot. The last is always rather a doubtful and disagreeable ordeal to pass
through.

We should have got through the debate upon the Income Tax this evening in the House of Lords,
if Lansdowne had not unfortunately this morning had an access of gout in the hand, which prevented
him from attending, and obliged the debate to be deferred. Lord Melbourne hopes that the resolution
which Lansdowne is to move[38] is put in such a shape as to vindicate our course, and at the
same time not to condemn that which has been adopted overmuch, nor to pledge us for the future....

Lord Melbourne earnestly hopes that your Majesty is well and not too much affected by the heat
of this weather, which does not suit Lord Melbourne very well. In conjunction with a large
dinner which we had at the Reform Club in honour of the Duke of Sussex, it has given Lord Melbourne
a good deal of headache and indisposition. The Duke was in very good humour, and much pleased
with the dinner, but he was by no means well or strong.

    [Footnote 38: This Resolution was in favour of altering the
    Corn, Sugar, and Timber Duties, in preference to imposing an
    Income Tax. It was negatived by 112 to 52.]

[Pageheading: QUEEN'S FIRST RAILWAY JOURNEY]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 14th June 1842.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Though I shall have the inexpressible happiness of seeing you and dearest
Louise so soon, I write these few lines to thank you for your very kind letter of the 9th.
We arrived here yesterday morning, having come by the railroad, from Windsor, in half an hour,
free from dust and crowd and heat, and I am quite charmed with it.[39] We spent a delightful
time at Windsor, which would have been still pleasanter had not the heat been such, ever since
Saturday week, that one is quite overcome; the grass is quite brown, and the earth full of
wide cracks; there has not been a drop of rain since the 24th, my birthday! We rode and walked
and danced, and I think I never was better than in all this fatigue and exercise....

I get every day fonder of dearest, excellent Uncle Mensdorff and the dear cousins, who are
so amiable and good and unassuming; really, in society they keep quite in the background. They
are out and out the nicest cousins we have. I am sure what I can do for them I shall be too
happy to do. Alexander is the most distinguished and solid, but Alphonse and Arthur the most
unassuming. There is something so peculiarly good in dear Arthur! and they are all five so
fond of Pussy, and she so fond of them.... Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 39: This was the Queen's first journey on the Great
    Western Railway. The Prince had often used it, and had been
    known to say, on descending from the train, "Not quite so
    fast next time, Mr Conductor, if you please."--Acworth, The
    Railways of England, p. 17.]

[Pageheading: THE INCOME TAX BILL]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Lord Melbourne is very glad to hear that your Majesty
has enjoyed in the society of your near and dear relations so much happiness, which, like all
other things, must have its portion of alloy in their departure. Lord Melbourne was much pleased
with the short conversation which he had with Count Mensdorff at Stafford House, and it is
highly interesting to see at this distance of time a man who has been engaged in affairs so
important and of so awful and melancholy a character. Your Majesty is surely right in terming
your cousins young men; if the health and constitution be good, thirty-six is a young man,
twenty-nine and thirty-two very young men, and twenty-five quite a boy. The weather has been
very hot but very fine. The rain was so much required that Lord Melbourne cannot lament its
coming, but he also regrets the hot suns which it has banished.

The course which had been taken upon the Income Tax in the House of Commons,[40] contrary to
Lord Melbourne's wish and opinion, rendered it impossible for Lord Melbourne directly to support
the Bill in the House of Lords without offending and separating himself from the whole body
of those who supported the last Government.

He therefore acquiesced in the resolution, which was moved by Lord Lansdowne, and which did
not oppose the measure, but declared that it might have been avoided if the course which we
had proposed had been taken. In the debate Lord Melbourne argued as strongly as he could in
favour of the tax, and ended by declaring that if it was imposed, he could not pledge himself
for the future against maintaining and even extending it. Lord Melbourne is anxious to make
this explanation of his conduct to your Majesty, and hopes therefore that your Majesty will
forgive his writing thus much upon this subject. Lord Melbourne very much lamented that the
business did not terminate as amiably as it began, and that a contest should have been got
into respecting the third reading of the Bill; but considering that the measure had passed
by accident through its first stages without any debate, and that there were Lords who were
still desirous of speaking upon it, it was imprudent of the Ministers not at once to give another
day for that purpose, especially as they were sure to be compelled to do so by repeated motions
of adjournment.

The feelings which your Majesty expresses upon the conviction of this man[41] are natural,
and such as must arise in your Majesty's bosom; but Lord Melbourne knows very well that your
Majesty will at once see the necessity of not yielding to your own feelings, and of leaving
the issue entirely in the hands of your advisers.

Without any reference to personal or particular circumstances, without adverting to your Majesty's
age, sex, qualities mental or personal, without attending to any sentiments of attachment or
affection which may be felt for your Majesty's person, it must be remembered that your Majesty's
life is, from the position which you occupy and the office which you fill, the most important
life in these realms; it is also too clear that it is the most exposed life in the country,
the life the most obnoxious[42] to danger; and therefore it is a duty to throw around it every
protection which the law and the execution of the law can afford.

Lord Melbourne was sure that your Majesty, being fond of speed, would be delighted with the
railway. Lord Melbourne hopes that your Majesty was not much affected by the heat, which he
feared that you would be.

Has your Majesty read the last volume of Madame D'Arblay's (Miss Burney) Diary, which contains
the account of her service in the family of George III.?[43] It is a curious [work], gives
a curious account of the intérieur, and shows the King and Queen and the Princesses in a very
amiable light.

    [Footnote 40: Lord John Russell had strenuously opposed the
    Income Tax Bill, but had been defeated by large majorities.]

    [Footnote 41: Frances was tried on 17th June, and convicted.
    The death sentence was commuted to one of transportation for
    life.]

    [Footnote 42: Used in the classical sense of "exposed to";
    cf. "obnoxia fato."]

    [Footnote 43: The first five volumes were published this
    year, Madame D'Arblay having died in 1840, at the age of
    eighty-seven. Croker somewhat rancorously attacked them in the
    Quarterly, to which Macaulay replied in the Edinburgh.]

[Pageheading: A PRESENT FROM MUSCAT]

The Earl of Aberdeen to Queen Victoria.

FOREIGN OFFICE, 28th June 1842.

Lord Aberdeen, with his humble duty, begs to enclose for your Majesty's information a list
of the presents brought by the Envoy of the Imam of Muscat for your Majesty.

Lord Aberdeen will attend to-morrow with the Envoy, at the hour your Majesty has been pleased
to command; and he will suggest that the presents should be sent previously to the Palace,
in order to be laid before your Majesty.

[List of Articles sent for Her Most Gracious Majesty, The
         Mighty Queen, a trifling Gift scarce worth being
         mentioned.]

  Two Pearl Necklaces,
  Two Emeralds,
  An Ornament made like a Crown,
  Ten Cashmere Shawls,
  One Box containing four Bottles Otto of Roses.
  Four Horses, before mentioned in a former letter, but for
the transmission of which no opportunity offered in Bombay,
but now sent in my own ship. Through your kindness have
those things taken[44] from Ali bin Nassur, and make an excuse
for me to Her Most Gracious Majesty, and peace be on you!

    [Footnote 44: I.e. accept.]

Lord Fitzgerald and Vesci to Queen Victoria.

INDIA BOARD, 4th July 1842.

... From the seat of war, the intelligence is most satisfactory. The conduct of the army, its
perseverance and its courage, have not been surpassed in the military history of British India.

Recent events have not, however, changed the views of Lord Ellenborough as to the general policy
which he recommends to be pursued.

He regards as the best result of that success which has attended the Arms of your Majesty,
that it admits of withdrawing, without dishonour, the British force to positions of safety,
having certain and uninterrupted communications with the British territory.

From other quarters the reports are equally favourable. The successful advance of a division
commanded by Brigadier-General England may be regarded as ensuring the safety of the force
at Candahar.

In the Indian Dominions and in the native Army the best spirit prevails.

[Pageheading: BEAN'S ATTEMPT ON THE QUEEN]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

SOUTH STREET, 4th July 1842.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and is anxious to express his earnest
hope that your Majesty is well and not disturbed by the event[45] which took place yesterday,
and which, although it appears not to have been dangerous in itself, is formidable as affording
additional evidence of the ease with which persons of the lower orders can incite themselves,
or be incited by others, to the contemplation and commission of such acts. The only observation
that can be made upon these attempts is, that hitherto they appear to have been made by those
who have not the means of executing their own wicked designs, and that they are not marked
by the same determination and the same long and ferocious preparation which characterised in
France the conduct of Fieschi and Alibaud.[46] Lord Melbourne is not of opinion that the extension
of mercy to Francis--which from what Lord Melbourne hears of the opinion of the judges he apprehends
to have been unavoidable--could have had any effect in encouraging this man to a similar act;
at the same time it is impossible to say what may have had an effect upon the mind, and we
can only collect the intentions of men from the deeds which they perform.

Lord Melbourne thanks your Majesty much for your letter of the 26th ult. Lord Melbourne again
expresses his fervent wishes for your Majesty's health, safety, and tranquillity of mind.

    [Footnote 45: Bean, a deformed lad, presented a pistol at the
    Queen in the Mall.]

    [Footnote 46: The perpetrators of attempts on King Louis
    Philippe.]

[Pageheading: DEATH OF THE DUKE OF ORLEANS]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

CLAREMONT, 14th July 1842.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--These two horrible news of poor dear Chartres'[47] fatal accident have quite
overcome us. It is the most dreadful misfortune I ever remember, and will be felt everywhere.
I can't say how I feel it; I liked and admired him, and know how he was adored by all of you,
and by poor wretched Hélène, whom this will kill. Those poor helpless little children! it is
too melancholy. After escaping from so many dangers, to be cut off in this way is too dreadful!
God knows what is for our best, but this does seem difficult to understand. I pray and hope
that you will all be mercifully supported under this heavy bereavement. I think it is so dreadful
that poor Hélène could not be with him in his last moments! God be with you all, and believe
me, ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

I had begun a letter to poor Chartres this morning.

    [Footnote 47: On 13th July the Duke of Orleans (formerly Duc
    de Chartres), eldest son of Louis Philippe, was thrown from
    his phaeton near the Porte Maillot, Paris, and died shortly
    afterwards. He was the father of the Comte de Paris and the
    Duc de Chartres.]

[Pageheading: ACCOUNT OF THE ACCIDENT]

The Queen of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 15th July 1842.

MY BELOVED VICTORIA,--You have surely already heard of the heavy visitation God has sent us.
My beloved brother was unexpectedly taken away from us before yesterday evening. Before yesterday
morning he went to Neuilly to take leave of my parents, previous to his departure for St Omer.
The horses ran away: he had the unfortunate idea to jump out from his barouche--a thing I cannot
understand, as he had on all occasions an uncommon presence of mind--fell upon his head, and
expired a few hours afterwards, in presence of my too unfortunate parents, without having recovered
his consciousness. It is the greatest misfortune that could happen to us.

We are quite stunned by the sudden and horrid blow, and I cannot believe it yet, although I
have before me the letter of my poor parents. They are full of courage and resignation to the
will of Providence; but I do not understand what will become of them, particularly of my mother,
who loved so fondly, and with so much reason, my brother, and of the too unfortunate Hélène.
May God help them and have mercy on them! Clémentine and Victoire are gone to Plombières to
give to Hélène the fatal news, and bring her back: it will most probably be her death. My parents
wished to see us immediately, and we go to-morrow to Paris.

I am sure, my beloved Victoria, of the share you will take in the misfortune, the greatest
which could befall us, and I thank you beforehand for it. God's will be done! May He at least
always bless you, and preserve those you love from all evil and danger! In affliction as in
joy, I am, ever, my beloved Victoria, yours most devotedly,

LOUISE.

Queen Victoria to Sir Robert Peel.

CLAREMONT, 16th July 1842.

The Queen is anxious to draw Sir Robert Peel's attention to a circumstance which she has already
some months ago mentioned to him: this is relative to Sir Edward Disbrowe.[48] The Queen knows
that Sir Robert Peel shares her opinion as to Sir Edward Disbrowe's abilities not being of
the first order, but this is not the only thing; what she chiefly complains of is his decided
unfairness towards Belgium, which she thinks has always shown itself, and again most strongly
in his last despatches. The King of the Belgians has never dropped a word on the subject, but
the Queen really feels it her duty by her Uncle to state this frankly to Sir Robert Peel, and
to say that she thinks it highly important that Sir Edward Disbrowe should be removed to some
other Mission. Of course she wishes that this should be done quietly, but she thinks that with
a man like the present King of the Netherlands, who is continually intriguing in Belgium and
making her Uncle's position very painful, it is of the utmost importance that our Minister
there should be totally unbiassed--which Sir Edward Disbrowe most decidedly is not. Could not
Sir T. Cartwright be sent there, and Sir Edward Disbrowe go to Stockholm? The Queen merely
suggests this; but, of course, as long as the man sent to the Hague is sensible and fair, it
is indifferent to her who goes there....

    [Footnote 48: Then British Minister at the Hague.]

[Pageheading: GRIEF OF THE QUEEN]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

CLAREMONT, 17th July 1842.

The Queen had intended to have written to Lord Melbourne some time ago to have thanked him
for his kind letter of the 5th, but she was so occupied, first of all with the arrival of our
brother and sister, with our removal here, and lastly by the dreadful misfortune at Paris,
which has completely overpowered her, and made her quite ill--that it prevented her from doing
so. The Queen is sure that Lord Melbourne will have warmly shared the universal horror and
regret at the untimely and fearfully sudden end of so amiable and distinguished a Prince as
poor Chartres (as we all called the Duke of Orleans) was! The loss to France, and indeed Europe,
is very great; but to the Royal Family, dearest Louise (who all doted on him), and above all
to poor unfortunate Hélène, who adored him (and he was a most devoted husband to her), and
to his two poor little boys of four and one years old--he is an irreparable loss. The Queen
has heard from none yet, but has seen a letter from Guizot, who was a witness of the last scene,
which is quite truly reported in the papers; he says it was fearful--the poor Duke lying and
dying on a mattress on the floor surrounded by his parents and sisters, kneeling and praying
around their dearly beloved Child! Alas! poor Hélène had not even that comfort!

The Queen is very glad that the Bill for the better security of her person has passed so quickly
and in so gratifying a manner through both Houses.

We are here since yesterday week, enjoying the fine weather, and great quiet and peace; but
the news from Paris have damped our spirits.

The Queen is charmed with her new sister,[49] who is a most amiable, sensible, and gentle creature,
and without being really handsome, very pretty and pleasing.

We return to town to-morrow and the Queen hopes soon to see Lord Melbourne. We intend going
to Windsor to settle, on Saturday.

The Queen trusts Lord Melbourne is quite well.

    [Footnote 49: The Duchess Ernest of Saxe-Coburg.]

[Pageheading: LETTER FROM KING LOUIS PHILIPPE]

The King of the French to Queen Victoria.

NEUILLY, 17 Juillet 1842.

MADAME MA BIEN CHÈRE ET BIEN BONNE S[OE]UR,--J'ai bien reconnu le c[oe]ur de votre Majesté
dans l'empressement qu'elle a mis à m'exprimer la part qu'elle prend à mon malheur. Ma malheureuse
Reine en est également bien touchée, et si elle ne le témoigne pas elle-même dès aujourd'hui
à votre Majesté, c'est qu'elle est encore dans l'impossibilité d'écrire. Nous osons lui demander
tous les deux, d'être notre interprète auprès du Prince Albert, et de lui dire combien nous
sommes sensibles à son intérêt. S'il pouvait y avoir une consolation au coup affreux qui a
frappé nos vieux jours, ce serait ces témoignages d'intérêt, et les regrets dont on entoure
le tombeau de mon enfant chéri, et la perte immense que tous ont faite en lui! C'est à présent
qu'on sent ce qu'il était, et ce qu'il devenait chaque jour de plus en plus.

NEUILLY, 19 Juillet 1842.

MADAME MA TRÈS CHÈRE S[OE]UR,--Je comptais que votre Majesté et le Prince Albert s'associeraient
à notre immense douleur; que Dieu vous bénisse pour les tendres expressions de votre lettre.
Nous sommes anéantis par le coup dont Dieu nous a frappés, que sa Sainte Volonté soit faite!
J'ai perdu l'objet de ma plus vive tendresse, celui qui depuis 32 ans avait été mon amour,
mon bonheur, et ma gloire, plein de vie, d'avenir, ma tête n'y est plus, mon c[oe]ur est flétri,
je tâche de me résigner, je pleure et je prie pour cette Ame qui m'était si chère et pour que
Dieu nous conserve l'infortuné et précieux Roi dont la douleur est incommensurable; nous tâchons
de nous réunir tous pour faire un faisceau autour de lui. Notre ange de Louise et votre excellent
oncle sont arrivés avant-hier; leur présence nous a fait du bien. Hélène, anéantie par la douleur,
a un courage admirable, sa santé se soutient. Nemours, dont l'affliction est inexprimable,
tâche de prendre des forces pour nous consoler tous, et les bonnes Victoire et Clémentine après
l'horrible et douleureuse scène à laquelle elles avaient assisté, ont passé trois nuits pour
aller chercher leur infortunée Belle-S[oe]ur. Enfin, Dieu veut que nous vivions pour nous soutenir
les uns les autres, que ce Dieu Tout Puissant vous bénisse, Madame, et vous préserve à jamais
de pareilles douleurs, c'est le v[oe]u bien sincère de celle qui se dit de tout son c[oe]ur,
Madame, De votre Majesté la toute dévouée S[oe]ur,

MARIE AMÉLIE.

[Pageheading: LEIGH HUNT]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

SOUTH STREET, 22nd July 1842.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty, and ventures to transmit the copy of Mr Leigh Hunt's
poem, which he mentioned to your Majesty in his last letter. Lord Melbourne also sends the
letter which Mr Leigh Hunt has taken the liberty of addressing to your Majesty, as well as
that which he has addressed to Lord Melbourne. Lord Melbourne will inform Mr Hunt that he has
done this, and it is not at all required that any further notice should be taken.[50]

It is a very gay and lively work, and has in it some wit and fun.

Lord Melbourne had great pleasure yesterday in seeing your Majesty well and in good spirits.

    [Footnote 50: The poem was no doubt The Palfrey; a Love-Story
    of Old Times.]

Mr Leigh Hunt to Viscount Melbourne.

32 EDWARDES SQUARE, KENSINGTON, 15th July 1842.

MY LORD,--I was once speaking to Mr Fonblanque[51] of my unwillingness to trouble your Lordship,
when Prime Minister, with a request to lay my tragedy of the Legend of Florence[52] before
Her Majesty; and he said that he was sure your good-nature would not have been displeased with
it. This is the reason why I now venture to ask whether a similar kindness might be shown the
accompanying little poem, supposing no etiquette to stand in the way of it. I have no Tory
channels of communication with the Palace, nor wish to seek any; neither can I trespass upon
any friendships of Her Majesty's, unless they can find my excuse in some previous knowledge
of me. On the other hand, I have no fear of being supposed by your Lordship to approach one
who is no longer Premier with less respect than when he was in power. I would even venture
to say, if the mode of testifying it were not so poor a one, that it is in a double spirit
of respectfulness the application is made. Should it be of a nature calculated to give your
Lordship any perplexity, I can only blush for having been the occasion of it, and beg it may
be laid to the account of an ignorance which lives very much out of the world. The same reason
will plead my excuse for not knowing whether a letter to Her Majesty ought, or ought not, to
accompany the book; and for begging your Lordship, after its perusal, to suppress it or otherwise
accordingly, in case you can oblige me in the other part of my request. Your Lordship will
perceive that the Address prefixed to the poem, not having ventured to ask Her Majesty's permission,
does not presume to call itself a dedication; neither does it leave the public under any erroneous
impression whatsoever as to the nature of its intentions: and on this account I not only expect,
of course, no acknowledgment of its receipt on the part of any one about Her Majesty's person,
but shall be more than content to understand by your Lordship's own silence that my book has
reached its destination, and therefore not been considered altogether unworthy of it.

The bookseller tells me that it is no longer "the mode" for authors to present their volumes
bound; but in regard to books intended to go to Court, he is not quite so certain; and I find
it so difficult to disassociate the idea of dress from any such proceeding, that I trust my
inexperience in this respect also will procure me whatever pardon it may require.

I have the honour to be, my Lord, your Lordship's ever grateful and faithful Servant,

LEIGH HUNT.

    [Footnote 51: Hunt had founded The Examiner in 1808, and
    Albany Fonblanque (1793-1872) had succeeded him on it as
    leader writer.]

    [Footnote 52: Leigh Hunt's play, A Legend of Florence, had
    had a great success at Covent Garden in 1840; in 1852 it was
    performed at Windsor by the Queen's command.]

[Pageheading: THE AFFLICTED FAMILY]

The Queen of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

NEUILLY, 21st July 1842.

MY BELOVED VICTORIA,--I was unable to thank you the other day for your kind and feeling letter
of the 14th, although I was greatly touched by it, and I trust you will have excused me. I
thank you to-day very sincerely for both your letters, and for the share and sympathy you and
dear Albert take in our great misfortune. I know it is very heart-felt, and we are all very
grateful for it. Victoire and my poor mother have already given you news from the unfortunate
Hélène. She has sustained and outlived the first shock and shows wonderful courage. She is
even well in health, and much better and stronger in all ways than I had expected. She takes
very much upon herself on account of the poor children, to prevent that any melancholy or painful
feeling should be connected for them with the remembrance of their beloved and unfortunate
father. My parents show great fortitude and resignation, but their hearts are for ever broke.
They are only sustained by their feeling of duty. My poor mother bears up for my father, and
my father bears up to fulfil his duties of father and of king. Their health is, thank God!
good, and my father retains all his strength of mind and quickness of judgment; but they are
both grown old in looks, and their hairs are turned quite white.

The first days, my poor father could do nothing but sob, and it was really heartbreaking to
see him. He begins now to have more command upon his grief, and the presence of your uncle,
whom he dearly loves, seems to do him good. The poor children are well and merry and seem unconscious
of their dreadful loss. From time to time only they jump round us as if looking for protection.
The contrast of their gaiety with their horrid misfortune is very painful. Paris is looking
remarkably well and strong. Robert[53] is much grown, extremely quick and lively, and begins
to speak. The remainder of the family is, as you may easily imagine, in the deepest affliction.
Nemours especially is quite broken down with grief. Chartres was more than a brother to him,
as he was more than a second father to us all. He was the head and the heart and soul of the
whole family. We all looked up to him, and we found him on all occasions. A better, or even
such a brother was never seen; our loss is as great as irreparable; but God's will be done!
He had surely His motives in sending on my unfortunate parents the horrid affliction in their
old days, and in removing from us the being who seemed the most necessary to the hope and happiness
of all; we must submit to His decrees, hard as they are; but it is impossible not to regret
that my poor brother has not at least found the death of a soldier, which he had always wished
for, instead of such a useless, horrid, and miserable one! It seems, for no one saw him fall,
that he did not jump, as we had thought at first, but that he was thrown from the barouche,
while standing; and I like it in some measure better so, as God's will is still more manifest
in this way. It is equally manifest in all the circumstances attending the catastrophe. My
poor brother was not even to have come to Neuilly. He had taken leave of my parents the day
before, and would not have gone again if my unfortunate mother had not asked him, and if my
parents, who were to go to Paris, had not delayed their departure....

I thank you again and again, my beloved Victoria, for all your interest and sympathy. I was
sure you would think of us and of me: you know how much I loved my brother. I little expected
to outlive him, as I had done my beloved Mary;[54] but once more, God's will be done. I remain
now and ever, yours most devotedly,

LOUISE.

I perceive I forgot mentioning Ernest. Pray thank him for his sympathy also. He knows what
a brother is, and may feel for us! We expect on Saturday poor Joinville. My father will have
thus his four remaining sons round him for the opening of the Session, which takes place on
the 26th, and at which he must preside in person. It is a hard duty for him.

    [Footnote 53: The young Duc de Chartres, born in 1840.]

    [Footnote 54: See ante, p. 144. (Ch. VIII, Footnote 8)]

[Pageheading: THE CORN LAWS]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria. The debate was entirely confined to those members who act
in concert with the Anti-Corn Law League.[55] It continued until twelve, when Mr Cobden, the
Member for Stockport, moved an adjournment of the House, on the ground that none of your Majesty's
servants had taken a part in the debate....

Several members of the Opposition voted with the Government, and declared that they would not
be parties to such vexatious proceedings.

A division on the main question--a Committee to enquire into the state of the country with
a view to the Repeal of the Corn Laws--then took place.

The motion was negatived by a majority of 156 to 64--92. The House did not adjourn until three
this morning.

    [Footnote 55: The Anti-Corn Law League was rapidly gaining
    importance, and fiscal policy occupied a great part of the
    session of 1842. Peel was already reducing import duties
    on articles other than corn. Cobden had been elected at
    Stockport, for the first time, in 1841.]

[Pageheading: FURTHER PARTICULARS OF ACCIDENT]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

NEUILLY, 22nd July 1842.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I was anxious to write to you on the 18th, but I was so overpowered with
all that surrounded me that I could really not. Yesterday I received your dear letter of the
19th, and I will answer it, so as to give you a clear view of the sad case. On the 12th, Tuesday,
Chartres had taken leave, as he meant to go to St Omer, the 13th; however, in the family the
Queen and others said he ought to come once more to see them. The King had ordered his carriage
to go to town on the 13th, to a Council; Chartres meant to have called shortly after ten.

It is necessary to tell you all this, as it shows how strangely circumstances turned fatally.
Chartres did not want to return once more to Neuilly, and the King, if exact, might see him
once more in town. Chartres, however, instead of coming early, set off after eleven; his Off.
d'Ordonnance, M. Bertin de Veaux, his valet de chambre, a German, Holder, begged him not to
go quite alone in that small phaeton through Paris, as he was in uniform, but all this did
not avail; he insisted to go in the phaeton and to go alone. He set out later than he expected,
and if the King had set out exactly as he had named, the parents and the son would probably
have met on the rising avenue of the Champs Elysees, towards the Barrière de l'Étoile and Arc
de Triomphe. However, the King delayed his departure and the son set off. At the place where
from the great avenue one turns off towards Neuilly, the horses, which were not even young
horses, as I am told that he has had them some years, moved by that stupid longing to get to
Neuilly, where they knew their stables, got rather above the postillion, and ran quasi away.
Chartres got up and asked the postillion if he could hold his horses no longer; the boy called
out "Non, Monseigneur"; he had looked back when he said this, and saw his master for the last
time standing in the phaeton. People at some distance saw him come out of his carriage and
describe a sort of semicircle falling down. Nobody knows exactly if he jumped out of the carriage,
or if he lost his position and fell out. I am inclined to think that, trusting to his lightness
and agility, he wanted to jump out, forgetting the impulse which a quick-going carriage gives,
as there were marks on his knees as if he had first fallen that way. The principal blow was,
however, on the head, the skull being entirely fractured. He was taken up senseless, that is
to say confused, but not fainting, and carried into a small inn. At first his appearance, sitting
in a chair, was so little altered that people thought it was nothing of any consequence.

He knew no one, and only spoke a few incoherent words in German. The accident happened about
a quarter before twelve, and at four he was no more.

I refer for some other details to Albert. Poor Louise looks like a shadow, and only her great
devotion for me supports her. It may serve as a lesson how fragile all human affairs are. Poor
Chartres, it seems, with the prospect of these camps and altogether, was never in better spirits.
But I must end. Ever, my dearest Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

[Pageheading: SIR EDWARD DISBROWE]

Queen Victoria to the Earl of Aberdeen.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 27th July 1842.

The Queen thanks Lord Aberdeen for the letter she has this morning received.

The Queen thinks that a reprimand would hardly do, as it is not so much from any particular
despatch that she has formed this opinion of Sir Edward Disbrowe, but more from the general
tenor of his conduct and despatches; therefore she thinks it would be difficult to censure
him, which would probably not have the desired effect.[56] For this reason the Queen would
prefer his being removed without his being told that it was for his conduct, and without his
being able to find this out, which, the Queen concludes from Lord Aberdeen's letter, could
easily be done.

    [Footnote 56: See p. 409. Lord Aberdeen had suggested
    sending Sir Edward Disbrowe a private admonition.]
      (Ch. XI, 16th July, 1842)

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 2nd August 1842.

DEAREST UNCLE,--I had the pleasure of receiving your kind letter of the 29th, late on Sunday
evening. You know all we have felt, and do feel, for the dear and exemplary French family.
Really it is too dreadful, but God's will be done! Perhaps poor Chartres is saved great sorrow
and grief. Him we must not pity!

God grant all may go off well on these dreadful days, and may He support the dear afflicted
parents, widow, and brothers and sisters! My dearest Louise! I hope and trust that her dear
children will occupy her and divert her attention; only don't let her swallow and suppress
her grief and keep it to herself; that is dreadful, and very hurtful. Let her give way to her
sorrow, and talk of it to her.

Pray, dearest Uncle, will not and ought not Paris to be Duke of Orleans now? Hélène is sole
guardian, is she not?...

Dear Louise will, I trust, excuse my not answering her kind letter to-day; pray give her my
best love, and believe me, always, your most devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: THE FATHERLESS CHILDREN]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 5th August 1842.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--... Little Paris,[57] who has gained much of late, will keep the name
of Paris, at least for the present. Hélène will be, after the poor King's demise, sole guardian
of her children; till then the King as head of the family will be supreme in all matters relating
to the children.... Your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 57: The late Comte de Paris, who bore this title to
    the end of his life, father of the present Duc d'Orléans.]

The Queen of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 5th August 1842.

MY BELOVED VICTORIA,--... Poor little Paris is aware of his misfortune in the way he can be.
Hélène told him that he saw everybody weep because he would see no more his beloved father.
The poor child wept then very much, and he has done several times since, when the same thing
was repeated to him. He wonders why he does not go any more in his unfortunate father's room,
and why there is no more "de cher Papa," as he says: else he makes no question or observation
and is very quiet and cheerful. He cannot yet feel what he has lost and his melancholy fate:
but Hélène does what she can to keep alive in him the remembrance of his father.... Yours most
affectionately,

LOUISE.

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. It can hardly be expected that the grief of the French
family will, as yet, much diminish, but Lord Melbourne hopes that they are somewhat more composed.
He has heard this morning that Lord and Lady Beauvale were at Boulogne on Saturday; they would
probably cross yesterday, and will be in London to-day.

Lord Melbourne understands that Lord Beauvale had an interview of three hours with the King
of the French. Charles Howard was married this morning, and Lord Melbourne is going to meet
Lord and Lady Carlisle and the rest of the family at Baron Parke's[58] at dinner. Lord Melbourne
thinks that Lord Prudhoe's marriage[59] was to be expected.[60] Upon looking at the Peerage,
he is only fifty years old, and fifty is young enough to marry anybody. The only fault of fifty
is that it advances too rapidly on to sixty, which, on the other hand, is too old to marry
anybody. It is Lord Melbourne's opinion that if a man does marry either at fifty or sixty,
he had much better take a young girl than a woman of more age and experience. Youth is more
malleable, more gentle, and has often more respect and compassion for infirmity than middle-age.

    [Footnote 58: Afterwards Lord Wensleydale.]

    [Footnote 59: To Lady Eleanor Grosvenor.]

    [Footnote 60: Admiral Lord Algernon Percy (1792-1865),
    President of the Royal Institution, was created in 1816 Baron
    Prudhoe: in 1847, on the death of his brother, he became
    fourth Duke of Northumberland.]

[Pageheading: RESIGNATION OF LORD HILL]

Lord Hill to Queen Victoria.

HARDWICKE GRANGE,[61] 9th August 1842.

Lord Hill presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and craves your Majesty's gracious permission
to lay before your Majesty his resignation of the Command of your Majesty's Army.

Lord Hill deeply regrets the necessity of taking a step which will deprive him of a charge
that has been so long committed to his hands, and for his continuance in which he is indebted
to your Majesty's grace and favour; but he has again suffered much from the illness under which
he laboured in the early part of the year, and his health has in consequence become so indifferent
as to render him unequal to the adequate discharge of the various important duties of his command,
which therefore he feels he could not retain with due regard to the interests of your Majesty's
Service.

Lord Hill had flattered himself that he should have been able to have laid his application
for retirement before your Majesty himself, and personally to have expressed to your Majesty
his deep and lasting sense of your Majesty's gracious kindness to him on all occasions. Having,
however, left London by the advice of his medical attendants, and being too unwell to undertake
a second journey, Lord Hill avails himself of this mode of assuring your Majesty of his unabated
zeal for the Service, of his dutiful devotion to your Majesty's person, and of the pain and
sorrow with which he relinquishes an appointment that afforded him the honour and advantage
of executing your Majesty's commands, and receiving many gracious proofs of your Majesty's
support and confidence.

    [Footnote 61: Lord Hill's country house in Shropshire.]

[Pageheading: APPOINTMENT OF COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria. From the one which accompanied it, addressed to Sir Robert
Peel, he has reason to believe that it conveys to your Majesty the wish of Lord Hill to be
relieved, on the ground of ill-health and increasing infirmities, from the Command of your
Majesty's Forces.

Sir Robert Peel would humbly submit for your Majesty's consideration whether it might not be
a deserved mark of your Majesty's approbation to confer upon Lord Hill the rank of Viscount,
with remainder to his nephew Sir Rowland Hill,[62] who will succeed Lord Hill in the Barony.
Lord Beresford[63] and Lord Combermere[64] have the rank of Viscounts, and perhaps the long,
faithful services of Lord Hill as Commander-in-Chief may appear to your Majesty to entitle
him to equal distinction in the Peerage.

Sir Robert Peel has reason to believe that when Lord Hill's retirement shall be known there
will be many competitors for the office of Commander-in-Chief.

Sir George Murray,[65] Sir Edward Paget,[66] Lord Londonderry,[67] Lord Combermere, and perhaps
Lord Beresford, will severally urge their pretensions.

Sir Robert Peel humbly submits to your Majesty that should the Duke of Wellington be willing
to undertake the duties of this important trust, no claims could stand in competition with
his, and no selection from the candidates whom he has named would be satisfactory to the Army
or public in general.

Sir Robert Peel would therefore humbly recommend to your Majesty that the offer of this appointment
should be made to the Duke of Wellington, with the signification of a wish on the part of your
Majesty (should your Majesty be pleased to approve of the arrangement), that His Grace should
continue a member of the Cabinet, and the organ of the Government, as at present, in the House
of Lords.

    [Footnote 62: Lord Hill died 10th December 1842, and was
    succeeded in his peerages by Sir Rowland Hill, who died in
    1875.]

    [Footnote 63: William Carr Beresford (1768-1854), created
    Viscount Beresford in 1823 for the victory of Albuera, 1811.]

    [Footnote 64: Sir Stapleton Cotton (1773-1865), created
    Viscount Combermere for the capture of Bhurtpore.]

    [Footnote 65: Sir George Murray (1772-1846), received a
    K.C.B. for his services in the Peninsula, M.P. for Perth, and
    afterwards Commander-in-Chief in Ireland.]

    [Footnote 66: General Sir Edward Paget, G.C.B. (1775-1849),
    brother of the first Marquis of Anglesey.]

    [Footnote 67: Prior to being Ambassador at Vienna, Lord
    Londonderry had distinguished himself in the Peninsula.]

[Pageheading: THE DUKE ACCEPTS]

The Duke of Wellington to Queen Victoria. He has been informed by Sir Robert Peel that your
Majesty had been graciously pleased to approve of the recommendation submitted by your Majesty's
servants that he should be appointed the Commander-in-Chief of your Majesty's Forces.

He is sensible of and grateful for this fresh proof of your Majesty's confidence in him and
gracious favour towards him.

He hopes that your Majesty will believe that your Majesty may rely upon his making every effort
in his power to promote your Majesty's views for the honour and interest of the country in
any situation in which he may be placed.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 12th August 1842.

The Queen has received Lord Hill's letter of the 9th inst., and is much concerned to learn
that Lord Hill's health is so indifferent that he thinks it is his duty to resign the important
office which he has so long and so honourably held. The Queen can only reluctantly give her
consent to this determination, as she regrets to lose Lord Hill's services at the head of her
Army. She cannot, however, miss this opportunity of expressing to Lord Hill her entire approbation
of his conduct throughout the time he served her. The Prince begs to have his kind regards
sent to Lord Hill.

[Pageheading: RIOTS IN MANCHESTER]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

A Cabinet has just been held, and it is proposed to send a battalion of Guards by the railway
this evening. The 16th of August (Tuesday next) is the anniversary of a conflict which took
place in Manchester in the year 1819[69] between the Yeomanry Cavalry and the populace, and
it is feared that there may be a great assemblage of persons riotously disposed on that day.

Under these circumstances it appears desirable to your Majesty's confidential advisers that
a proclamation should be immediately issued, warning all persons against attendance on tumultuous
meetings, and against all acts calculated to disturb the public peace. It is necessary that
a Council should be held for the issue of this proclamation, and important that it should arrive
in Manchester on Monday.

These considerations have prevented Sir Robert Peel from giving previous notice to your Majesty,
and having your Majesty's sanction for the holding of a Council. On account of the urgency
of the case, he has requested a sufficient number of Privy Councillors to repair to Windsor
this evening, in order that should your Majesty be graciously pleased to hold a Council, the
proclamation may be forthwith issued. The members of the Privy Council will be in attendance
about half-past six o'clock, as Sir Robert Peel has considered that from that time to half-past
seven will probably be the least inconvenient to your Majesty.

He writes this immediately after the breaking up of the Cabinet.

    [Footnote 68: The disturbances of this month, which originated
    in a strike for wages in Lancashire, were inflamed by
    agitators, and rapidly spread through Cheshire, Staffordshire,
    Warwickshire, and Yorkshire, eventually extending to the
    populous parts of Scotland and Wales. Several conflicts took
    place between the populace and the military, and there
    was much loss of life and property, as well as aggravated
    distress.]

    [Footnote 69: On 16th August 1819, a great popular
    demonstration in favour of Parliamentary Reform, presided
    over by Henry Hunt, the Radical, had taken place in St Peter's
    Fields, Manchester. A riot ensued, and the Yeomanry charged
    the populace, with some loss of life. The affair was
    afterwards known as the Peterloo massacre.]

[Pageheading: CHARTIST DISTURBANCES]

Sir James Graham to Queen Victoria.

WHITEHALL, 15th August 1842.

From this report it is evident that a strong and salutary moral impression had been produced
by the arrival of a reinforcement of 1,400 men in the disturbed district in the short time
of six-and-thirty hours after the first requisition for assistance had been sent from Manchester;
and the General has now at his disposal a force quite adequate to cope with the vast assemblage
of people who are expected to meet to-morrow at Manchester.

Some symptoms of this disposition forcibly to suspend labour have appeared in the West Riding
of Yorkshire; but on the whole the accounts, both from Scotland and the disturbed district,
which have been received this morning, may be considered favourable. The railroad communications
as yet are uninterrupted; no collision has taken place between the troops and the multitude,
except at Preston;[71] and Sir James Graham is willing to hope that this insurrectionary movement
may be suppressed without recourse to extreme measures. Every precaution, however, has been
taken, and arrangements are made for augmenting the force under the command of Sir William
Warre, if it should become necessary.

The character of these riots has assumed more decidedly a political aspect. It is no longer
a strike for higher wages, but the Delegates, who direct the movement, avow that labour shall
not be resumed until the people's Charter be granted.[72]

Sir James Graham will hasten to-morrow to inform your Majesty of the accounts which he may receive.

WHITEHALL, 18th August 1842.

He has this morning gone through all the letters received from the country, with Sir James
Graham, by whom the details of the information will be forwarded to your Majesty.

It appears to Sir Robert Peel that the general tenor of the reports is satisfactory. From Manchester,
from Wigan, from Preston, the reports are very good.

The movement is not one caused by distress. The demand for employment has increased, and the
price of provisions--and particularly of potatoes, bread, and bacon--has rapidly fallen within
the last fortnight or three weeks.

People of property and the Magistrates (notwithstanding their political dissensions) are now
acting in harmony, and with more energy.

Orders have been sent to apprehend the Delegates assembled in Manchester, the very moment that
the law will warrant their apprehension, and Sir Robert Peel should not be surprised to hear
of their committal to Lancaster Castle in the course of to-day.

Every vigilance will be exerted with reference to Cooper[73] (whom your Majesty names) and
all other itinerant agitators.

As might be naturally expected, the movements and disorderly spirit spreading from the centre
(Manchester) are appearing in remote points; but when peace and confidence are thoroughly restored
at Manchester, the example will quickly tell in the circumjacent districts.

Birmingham is tranquil and well-disposed. The accounts from Scotland are favourable.

    [Footnote 73: A Leicester Chartist, who was afterwards tried
    for sedition.]

[Pageheading: PARLIAMENT PROROGUED]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. He is going down to-day to Brocket Hall with Lord and
Lady Beauvale. Lord and Lady Palmerston are coming down to-morrow, and Lord and Lady Cowper
will probably come over from Panshanger.

Your Majesty read extremely well in the House of Lords on Friday last.[74] Lord Melbourne can
judge better of this from the body of the House than he could when he stood close to your Majesty.
Nothing can be more clear and distinct, and at the same time more natural and free from effort.
Perhaps if your Majesty could read a tone louder it would be as well. Charles Buller, who was
amongst the House of Commons, told Lord Melbourne that, where he stood, the voice, although
well heard, sounded somewhat weak. But this should not be attempted unless it can be done with
perfect ease. Nothing injures reading so much as the attempt to push the organ beyond its natural
powers.

Lord Melbourne hopes that these tumults in the manufacturing districts are subsiding, but he
cannot conceal from your Majesty that he views them with great alarm--much greater than he
generally thinks it prudent to express. He fears that they may last in the form of strike,
and turn out much longer than is looked for, as they did in 1832 and 1833.

There is a great mass of discontented feeling in the country arising from the actual state
of society. It arises from the distress and destitution which will fall at times upon a great
manufacturing population, and from the wild and extravagant opinions which are naturally generated
in an advanced and speculative state of society.

This discontent has been aggravated and fermented by the language of every party in the state.
Lord Melbourne can exempt no party from this blame, nor hardly any individual except himself.
The Tories and Conservatives (not the Leaders, but the larger portion of the party) have done
what they could to inflame the public mind upon that most inflammable topic of the Poor Laws.
The Times newspaper has been the most forward in this. The Whigs and Radicals have done what
they could in the same direction upon the Corn Laws. Mr Attwood[75] and another set have worked
the question of the Currency, and the whole career of Mr O'Connell in Ireland has been too
manifest to be mistaken. It is no wonder if working in this manner altogether they have at
last succeeded in driving the country into this which is certainly very near, if not actually
a rebellion.

Lord Melbourne earnestly hopes that your Majesty and the Prince, the Prince, and Princess are
all well.

    [Footnote 74: Parliament was prorogued by the Queen in person
    on 12th August.]

    [Footnote 75: Who represented the Radical views of the
    Birmingham school.]

[Pageheading: THE DISTURBED DISTRICTS]

Sir James Graham to Queen Victoria.

WHITEHALL, 18th August 1842.

Sir James Graham, with humble duty, is happily enabled to state to your Majesty that the accounts
from the disturbed districts received this morning are more satisfactory.

In Lancashire a disposition to resume work has been partially evinced; and at Preston, where
the most vigorous measures were taken in the first instance, there has hardly been a cessation
of employment.

Sir James Graham encloses a letter from the Chief Constable of the County of Lancashire detailing
a successful resistance to a fresh attempt on the part of a mob to enter Preston; and he sends
also a report from the Mayor of Manchester and from Mr Forster, the Stipendiary Magistrate.
Decisive measures will be adopted for the immediate apprehension of the Delegates, not only
at Manchester, but in every other quarter where legal evidence can be obtained which will justify
their arrest. The law, which clearly sanctions resistance to the entry of these mobs into cities,
is now understood by the local authorities. A bolder and firmer spirit is rising among all
classes possessing property in defence of their rights against these bands of plunderers, who
are the enemies both of law and of property. The prisoners taken in the commission of treasonable
felonies are numerous; warrants are issued against others whose persons are known: the supremacy
of the law will be promptly vindicated, and Sir James Graham entertains the confident hope
that order will be soon restored.

In the Potteries a signal example was made by a handful of your Majesty's troops opposed to
a riotous multitude which had burnt houses and spread devastation, and Sir James Graham encloses
a letter from Captain Powys giving a description of the occurrence. The effect of this example
has been that yesterday throughout this district no rioting took place.

[Pageheading: DISTURBANCES IN LONDON]

Sir James Graham to Queen Victoria. Warrants are out against four others. A very important
seizure of papers has been made which discloses a conspiracy, extensive in its ramifications,
going back as far as July 1841. It is hoped that these papers, which are still at Manchester,
may lead to fresh discoveries. Sir James Graham will send to Manchester to-night an experienced
law officer, for the purpose of pursuing the investigation on the spot.

There was a meeting last night in the neighbourhood of London, of a violent character. Sir
James Graham had given positive orders to the police not to allow any mob, as night approached,
to enter London. Notwithstanding these directions, a mob assembled in Lincoln's Inn Fields
about eleven o'clock, and moved through the city to Bethnal Green. Sir James Graham had the
troops on the alert, but the multitude dispersed without any serious disturbance.

Sir James Graham to Queen Victoria.

20th August 1842.

... An attempt to hold a meeting at dusk in the suburbs of London was resisted by the police
yesterday evening in pursuance of orders issued by the Government in conjunction with the Lord
Major, and the peace of the metropolis was preserved.

The above is humbly submitted by your Majesty's dutiful Subject and Servant,

J. R. G. GRAHAM.

[Pageheading: TROUBLE AT THE CAPE]

Lord Stanley to Queen Victoria.

DOWNING STREET, 26th August 1842.

Lord Stanley, with his humble duty, submits for your Majesty's perusal copies of three despatches,
received yesterday from the Governor of the Cape of Good Hope, detailing the unfortunate result
of an attack made by a small party of your Majesty's troops upon the camp of the insurgent
Boers at Natal; and also the copy of a despatch which Lord Stanley has sent in consequence
to Sir George Napier,[76] which, he trusts, may meet your Majesty's approbation. Lord Stanley
would have submitted the draft for your Majesty's approval previous to sending it, had not
an opportunity presented itself of sending it off by a fast-sailing private ship which sailed
this morning, the intelligence having only been received yesterday. The instructions sent to
Sir George Napier, on the 10th of April, but not received when this unfortunate affair took
place, were in substance not to attempt the subjugation of these people by direct force, but
to warn them that their titles to the land which they occupy would not be recognised by your
Majesty, that they would have no title to claim protection from the aggression of the neighbouring
tribes, to interdict communication between them and the settled parts of the Colony, and to
prevent any intercourse by sea with foreign or British traders. The unfortunate event which
has now occurred will render it necessary to take steps, as Sir George Napier has already done,
for vindicating the power of your Majesty's Arms; but when that shall have been effected, Lord
Stanley would still hope that a considerable number of these misguided men may be induced to
return to their allegiance, and to the settled parts of your Majesty's dominions, and he feels
confident that in such an event he will be fulfilling your Majesty's wishes in directing that
they may be treated with all possible lenity.

All which is humbly submitted by your Majesty's most dutiful Servant and Subject,

STANLEY.

    [Footnote 76: Sir George Napier (1784-1855) governed Cape
    Colony for seven years, and the Boers were extruded from Natal
    by him.]

Queen Adelaide to Queen Victoria.

BUSHEY HOUSE, 7th September 1842.

MY DEAREST NIECE,--... Your Mamma's visit gave me great pleasure, and it has been a great treat
to me to hear her sing again, and so well, which put me in mind of former happy days. I regret
much that she leaves me already this afternoon again, but the strong and powerful magnet which
you have left at the Castle draws her back, and I dare not keep her away from such treasures.

I beg you, my dearest Victoria, to give my affectionate love to dear Albert, and to believe
me ever most devotedly, your very affectionate Aunt,

ADELAIDE.

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN VISITS SCOTLAND]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

TAYMOUTH,[77] 8th September 1842.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I make no excuses for not having written, as I know that you will understand
that when one is travelling about and seeing so much that is totally new, it is very difficult
to find time to write....

Albert has told you already how successfully everything had gone off hitherto, and how much
pleased we were with Edinburgh, which is an unique town in its way. We left Dalkeith on Monday,
and lunched at Dupplin, Lord Kinnoul's, a pretty place with quite a new house, and which poor
Lord Kinnoul displayed so well as to fall head over heels down a steep bank, and was proceeding
down another, if Albert had not caught him; I did not see it, but Albert and I have nearly
died with laughing at the relation of it. From Dalkeith we went through Perth (which is most
beautifully situated on the Tay) to Scone Palace,[78] Lord Mansfield's, where we slept; fine
but rather gloomy. Yesterday morning (Tuesday) we left Scone and lunched at Dunkeld, the beginning
of the Highlands, in a tent; all the Highlanders in their fine dress, being encamped there,
and with their old shields and swords, looked very romantic; they were chiefly Lord Glenlyon's[79]
men. He, poor man! is suddenly become totally blind, and it was very melancholy to see him
do the honours, not seeing anything. The situation of Dunkeld, down in a valley surrounded
by wooded hills, is very, very pretty. From thence we proceeded to this enchanting and princely
place; the whole drive here was beautiful. All Lord Breadalbane's[80] Highlanders, with himself
at their head, and a battalion of the 92nd Highlanders, were drawn up in front of the House.
In the evening the grounds were splendidly illuminated, and bonfires burning on the hills;
and a number of Highlanders danced reels by torchlight, to the bagpipes, which was very wild
and pretty....

    [Footnote 77: Lord Breadalbane's house. The Queen left London
    on 29th August for Scotland by sea, reaching Edinburgh on 1st
    September.]

    [Footnote 78: Scone Abbey was granted to Sir David Murray
    (afterwards Viscount Stormont) by James VI. of Scotland, whose
    cup-bearer he was, and whose life he saved.]

    [Footnote 79: Afterwards George, sixth Duke of Atholl
    (1814-1864).]

    [Footnote 80: John, second Marquis of Breadalbane, K.T.
    (1796-1862).]

[Pageheading: DRUMMOND CASTLE]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

TAYMOUTH, 10th September 1842.

It has been long the Queen's intention to write to Lord Melbourne, but we have seen and done
so much, it has been impossible. Everything has gone off so well at Edinburgh, Perth, and elsewhere.
This is a princely and most beautiful place, and we have been entertained by Lord Breadalbane
in a magnificent way. The Highland Volunteers, two hundred in number (without the officers),
keeping guard, are encamped in the park; the whole place was twice splendidly illuminated,
and the sport he gave the Prince out shooting was on the largest scale.

The Highlands and the mountains are too beautiful, and we must come back for longer another
time. The Queen will finish this letter at Drummond Castle,[81] as we leave this in half an hour.

Drummond Castle, 11th.--We arrived here yesterday evening at seven, having had a most beautiful
journey. We went with Lord Breadalbane up the Loch Tay (by water) to Ochmore[82] (I don't know
how it is written), a cottage belonging to Lord Breadalbane, close to Killin. The morning was
very fine, and the view indescribably beautiful; the mountains so high, and so wooded close
to Killin. It is impossible to say how kind and attentive Lord Breadalbane and poor Lady Breadalbane
(who is so wretchedly delicate) were to us. We were so sorry to go away, and might perhaps
have managed to stay two days longer at Taymouth, were we not fearful of delaying our sea voyage
back too much. However, we mean to visit him for longer another time; the Highlands are so
beautiful, and so new to me, that we are most anxious to return there again.

The journey from Killin to Comrie was most beautiful, and through such wild scenery--Glen Ogle,
which of course Lord Melbourne knows--and then along Loch Ern. This house is quite a cottage,
but the situation is fine, and the garden very beautiful. We leave this on Tuesday for Dalkeith[83]
where we sleep, and re-embark the next day for England. We greatly admire the extreme beauty
of Edinburgh; the situation as well as the town is most striking; and the Prince, who has seen
so much, says it is the finest town he ever saw. Scone Palace (where we slept on Tuesday night)
is fine, but gloomy; Perth is beautiful.

The Queen hopes Lord Melbourne is very well. The Prince begs to be remembered to him.

Dalkeith is a fine good house, and the park and grounds very pretty.

    [Footnote 81: The seat of Lord Willoughby d'Eresby.]

    [Footnote 82: It should be written Auchmore.]

    [Footnote 83: The seat of the Duke of Buccleuch.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 20th September 1842.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Pray accept my best thanks for your kind letter of the 15th, which I received
on Saturday, the day of our arrival here. Dearest Louise will have told you what I wrote to
her. We had a speedy and prosperous voyage home of forty-eight hours, on board a fine large
and very fast steamer, the Trident, belonging to the General Steam Navigation Company. We found
our dear little Victoria so grown and so improved, and speaking so plain, and become so independent;
I think really few children are as forward as she is. She is quite a dear little companion.
The Baby is sadly backward, but also grown, and very strong. I am so distressed about dearest
Louise's still coughing, but she tells me it is decreasing. Only pray let her give way to her
grief; much crying, even if it makes her cough for the moment, can do her no real harm, but
stifling and swallowing grief (which she cannot repress) gnaws at the very roots of life and
undermines health. Ostend and sea-baths would, I should think, do her good.

I am very glad that you went to see the King of Prussia, and saw so many old friends; Fritz
of Mecklenburg[84] is, you know, Albert's very dear friend; he is just arrived here.

Alexandrine's brother everybody praises; the whole family are handsome and well brought up.

The Archduke Frederic[85] comes here to-morrow for a week's visit. Everybody praises him, and
Ferdinand liked him very much; all Archduke Charles's[86] sons are said to be very well brought
up. How I wish Archduke John[87] had come over here!

Now, dearest Uncle, adieu! and pray believe me, always, your most affectionate Niece,

VICTORIA R.

It would be very kind of you if you would tell me if there is a chance of Augustus's marrying
Clementine.[88] Don't believe I should say a word against it; but I have heard so much about
it that I should be really and sincerely glad to know a little of the truth from you.

    [Footnote 84: Frederic William (1819-1904), afterwards Grand
    Duke of Mecklenburg-Strelitz. See post, p 434. (Ch. XI, Footnote 93)]

    [Footnote 85: Son of the Archduke Charles.]

    [Footnote 86: (1771-1847), third son of the Emperor Leopold
    II. Distinguished in the Napoleonic wars.]

    [Footnote 87: (1782-1859), younger son of the Emperor Leopold
    II. Commanded on the Rhine, 1815. Administrator of the Empire,
    1848.]

    [Footnote 88: Prince Augustus of Saxe-Coburg and Princess
    Clementine of Orleans were married in the following April.
    Prince Ferdinand of Bulgaria is their son.]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S STEAM YACHT]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

Sir Robert Peel trusts that your Majesty may entirely depend upon being enabled to make any
excursions your Majesty may resolve upon in the early part of next summer, in a steam vessel
belonging to your Majesty, and suitable in every respect for your Majesty's accommodation.

Sir Robert Peel has had a personal communication with Sir John Barrow,[90] one of the Secretaries
to the Admiralty, this morning, upon the subject, and Sir Robert Peel has written by this post
to Sir George Cockburn,[91] who is out of town.

He finds that the Admiralty is now building a large vessel to be worked by steam power, applied
by means of a revolving screw instead of paddles. It may be doubtful whether the same degree
of velocity can be attained by means of the screw, particularly in a very large vessel. Of
this a full trial will be made.

Sir John Barrow assures Sir Robert Peel that he has been on board a steam-boat moved by the
screw, and that the working of the engine is scarcely perceptible; that there is none of the
tremulous motion which accompanies the beats of the paddles, and that it will be possible to
apply an apparatus by means of which the smoke can be consumed, and the disagreeable smell
in great measure prevented.

Sir Robert Peel will leave nothing undone to ensure your Majesty's comfort and safety in any
future naval excursions that your Majesty may be pleased to make.

    [Footnote 89: First Lord of the Admiralty.]

    [Footnote 90: Barrow had been made second Secretary in 1804
    by Dundas; he was a self-made man, and a most indefatigable
    traveller, writer, and promoter of Arctic exploration.]

    [Footnote 91: Admiral of the Fleet Sir George Cockburn
    (1772-1853), First Naval Lord.]

[Pageheading: QUEEN ISABELLA]

The Earl of Aberdeen to Queen Victoria.

27th September 1842.

Lord Aberdeen, with his most humble duty, lays before your Majesty a letter which he has received
from Mr Aston, respecting the marriage of the Queen of Spain, and which, after what has already
passed, may perhaps cause your Majesty some surprise.

Lord Aberdeen is humbly of opinion that the language hitherto employed by your Majesty's Government
upon this subject ought not to undergo any change, and that it ought to be treated entirely
as a Spanish question.

Great Britain would naturally regard a marriage with a son of the King of the French as injurious
to Spain and menacing to Europe, but would probably not feel it necessary to give such an opinion
respecting any other alliance. While this might be plainly stated, and the Spanish Government
exhorted to act according to their own independent view of the real interests of the country
and of the Queen, Lord Aberdeen would humbly propose that the Regent should be explicitly informed
by Mr Aston that he must not expect to receive any assistance from your Majesty's Government
in promoting a marriage with a Prince of the Netherlands.

Lord Aberdeen believes that the difficulties in the way of such an alliance will be found to
be very great, and especially that the religion of the Prince will present an obstacle which
in Spain must be nearly insurmountable.

[Pageheading: LORD MELBOURNE ON SCOTLAND]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

BROCKET HALL, 29th September 1842.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and has to acknowledge your Majesty's
letter of the 25th inst., which he had the honour and pleasure of receiving here on the 27th.
Lord Melbourne is well aware how much your Majesty's time must have been occupied by the number
of visitors at the Castle. We are much rejoiced here that your Majesty saw the Prince and Princess
Liechtenstein.[92] The latter is a great favourite of Lady Beauvale's, to whom she was always
very kind, and who describes her exactly as your Majesty does, as being very "amiable and unassuming,"
and though one of the first, if not the first lady at Vienna, as not at all partaking of the
insolence and hauteur which is by some ascribed to the society of that capital. As a beauty,
she is perhaps upon too large a scale, except for those who admire women of all shapes and
sizes; but her eyes and brow are very fine, and there is a very peculiarly soft and radiant
expression about them. Lord Melbourne had heard of his Sovereignty, but understands that his
territory is extremely limited. His possessions as a subject of Austria are worth a good deal
more than his German principality.

Lord Melbourne greatly congratulates your Majesty upon the happy progress and termination of
the expedition to Scotland. He is very glad of three things--that your Majesty returned by
sea, in the steamer, and that the passage was a good one....

The country is indeed most interesting, full of real picturesque beauty and of historical and
poetical associations and recollections. There is nothing to detract from it, except the very
high opinion that the Scotch themselves entertain of it. Edinburgh is magnificent--situation,
buildings, and all--but the boasting of the articles in the newspapers respecting it almost
inclined one to deny its superiority. It is also, as your Majesty says, most striking to contemplate
in the Clans the remains of feudal times and institutions. It is quite as well, however, particularly
for Monarchy, that they are but remains, and that no more of them have been left.

Lord Melbourne thanks your Majesty much for your kind enquiries after his health. He thinks
that he is getting better and stronger than he has been, and has a notion of trying a little
shooting in October.

Lord Melbourne begs to be respectfully remembered to the Prince.

    [Footnote 92: Prince Aloysius Joseph of Liechtenstein
    (1796-1858) and his wife, Princess Françoise-de-Paule,
    Countess Kinsky.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 18th October 1842.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I only received your kind letter yesterday, for which my best thanks. I
am delighted to hear that Louise's cough is decidedly better, and that upon the whole the dear
family are well, thank God! Certainly where He sees fit to afflict, He gives strength to bear up!

Louise says Vecto is in great beauty, and the baby magnificent. I wish you could see Pussy
now; she is (unberufen) the picture of health, and has just cut her first eye-tooth, without
the slightest suffering. We are going to Brighton on the 1st of November for a month; it is
the best month there and the worst here. I think I may announce Augusta Cambridge's[93] marriage
as certain, as I have just received a note from the Duke, which is as follows:--

"Being very anxious to communicate to you as soon as possible an event which concerns deeply
my family, I take the liberty of requesting you to let me know on what day and at what hour
I may wait upon you."

I shall see him to-morrow, and report the result to Louise on Friday.

I have just taken leave of poor Esterhazy, who has presented his letters of recall. He looked
wretched, and Lord Aberdeen told me he is only ill at being obliged to go; he is quite miserable
to do so, but the great gentleman at Johannisberg has most ungraciously refused to listen to
his entreaties to remain, which is very foolish, as they don't know who to send in his place.
I am very sorry to lose him, he is so amiable and agreeable, and I have known him ever since
I can remember anybody; he is, besides, equally liked and on equally good terms with both parties
here, which was of the greatest importance. It was touching to see him so low and ill and unlike
himself.

The accounts of poor dear Alexandrine's eyes continue very bad; she cannot write at all, or
go out, or do anything.

Say everything proper from us to the whole family, and pray believe me, always, your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 93: The Princess Augusta of Cambridge, who was
    married to Frederic William, afterwards Grand Duke of
    Mecklenburg-Strelitz, in the following June.]

[Pageheading: HISTORICAL STUDIES]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

