ON CHAUCER'S KNOWLEDGE OF ITALIAN.

In the Memoir prefixed to the Aldine edition of the Poetical Works of Chaucer, London, 1845,
Sir Harris Nicolas expresses an opinion that Dan Geoffrey was not acquainted with the Italian
language, and therefore not versed in Italian literature.

    "Though Chaucer undoubtedly knew Latin and French, it is by no means
    certain, notwithstanding his supposed obligations to the Decameron,
    that he was as well acquainted with Italian. There may have been a
    common Latin original of the main incidents of many, if not of all the
    tales, for which Chaucer is supposed to have been wholly indebted to
    Boccaccio, and from which originals Boccaccio himself may have taken
    them. That Chaucer was not acquainted with Italian may be inferred from
    his not having introduced any Italian quotation into his works,
    redundant as they are with Latin and French words and phrases."--Life
    of Chaucer, pp. 24, 25.

To which the following note is subjoined:

    "Though Chaucer's writings have not been examined for the purpose, the
    remark in the text is not made altogether from recollection, for at the
    end of Speght's edition of Chaucer's Works, translations are given of
    the Latin and French words in the poems, but not a single Italian word
    is mentioned."

If Sir Harris Nicolas had examined the writings of Chaucer with any care, he would scarcely
have formed or expressed so strange an opinion, for he must necessarily have discovered that
Chaucer was not only well acquainted with the language, but thoroughly well versed in Italian
literature, and that he paraphrased and translated freely from the works of Dante, Petrarca,
and Boccaccio. Chaucer would naturally quote Latin and French, as being familiar to his cotemporaries,
and would abstain from introducing Italian, as a knowledge of that language must have been
confined to a few individuals in his day; and he wrote for the many, and not for the minority.

The circumstances of Chaucer's life, his missions to Italy, during which he resided several
months in that country, when sent on the king's business to Genoa, and Florence, and Lombardy,
afforded {518} him ample opportunities of becoming thoroughly acquainted with the language
and literature of Italy; the acquisition of which must have been of easy accomplishment to
Chaucer, already familiar with Latin and French. So that it is not necessary to endow Chaucer
"with all human attainments as proof of his having spoken Italian."

Chaucer's own writings, however, afford the strongest evidence against the opinion entertained
by Sir Harris Nicolas, and such evidence as cannot be controverted.

Chaucer loves to refer to Dante, and often translates passages from the Divine Comedy. The
following lines are very closely rendered from the Paradiso, xiv. 28.:--

 "Thou one, two, and thre, eterne on live,
  That raignest aie in thre, two, and one,
  Uncircumscript, and all maist circumscrive."
              Last stanza of Troilus and Creseide.

 "Quell' uno e due e tre che sempre vive,
  E regna sempre in tre e due ed uno,
  Non circonscritto, e tutto circonscrive."
              Dante, Il Paradiso, xiv. 28.

 "Wel can the wise poet of Florence,
  That highte Dant, speken of this sentence:
  Lo, in swiche maner rime is Dantes tale.
  Ful selde up riseth by his branches smale
  Prowesse of man, for God of his goodnesse
  Wol that we claime of him our gentillesse."
              Wif of Bathes Tale, 6707.
              Purgatorio, vii. 121.

After relating the dread story of the Conte Ugolino, Chaucer refers to Dante, from whom perhaps
he derived it. (Conf. Inferno, xxxiii.)

