A very little consideration may convince one that this electuary was likely to effect the purpose
for which it was recommended.

    "Whether," says the Judge, "it be in time of health or sickness,
    whensoever you find any evill disposition in the stomach, eat a
    convenient meal of what meat and drink you please, then walk a little
    while after it: Then set down your body bending, and thrust the said
    Whalebone Instrument into your stomach, stirring it very gently, which
    will make you vomit; then drink a good draught of drink, and so use the
    Instrument as oft as you please, but never doe this upon an empty
    stomach. To make the stomach more apt to vomit, and to prepare the
    humours thereunto before you eat and drink, Take the bigness of a
    Nutmeg or more of the said Electuary of Cophie, &c., into your mouth;
    {70} then take drink to drive it down; then eat and drink, and walk,
    and use the Instrument as before." p. 19.

Should any reader wish to test the efficacy of the learned Judge's prescription, I am afraid
he must make an "instrument" for himself, or get one made for him; though when the Organon
Salutis was published, they were "commonly sold in London, and especially at the long shops
in Westminster Hall."

As to the book, and the name of the author, I may add (with reference to Wood's Athen.), that
in the copy before me, which is, like that referred to by Dr. Bliss, of the first edition (not
the second mentioned by Aubrey as published in 1659), the author's name does not appear on
the title-page at all. There we find only "By W. R. of Gray's Inne, Esq. Experto credo" [sic];
and really one seems as if one could believe any thing from a man who had habitually used such
medicines, for I have said nothing of his infusion of tobacco, for which you must--

    "Take a quarter of a pound of Tobacco, and a quart of Ale, White-wine,
    or Sider, and three or four spoonfulls of Hony, and two pennyworth of
    Mace; And infuse these by a soft fire, in a close earthen pot, to the
    consumption of almost the one-half, and then you may take from two
    spoonfulls to twelve [no tea-spoons in those days], and drink it in a
    cup with Ale or Beer."

One could, I say, believe almost any thing from a gentleman who under such a course of discipline
was approaching the age of fourscore; but though the title-page has only his initials, the
Dedication to the Marquess of Dorchester, and the letter to Sir Henry Blount, are both signed
"Will. Rumsey."

S. R. M.

[Footnote 3: See Vol. i. pp. 124. 139. 156. 242. 300. and 399.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

QUERIES CONCERNING OLD MSS.

I am very desirous of gaining some knowledge respecting the following MSS., especially as regards
their locality at the present time. Perhaps some of your numerous readers can help me to the
information which I seek.

1. "Whitelocke's Labours remembered in the Annales of his Life, written for the use of his
Children." This valuable MS. contains a most minute and curious account of the performance
of Shirley's masque, entitled The Triumphs of Peace. In 1789, when Dr. Burney published the
third volume of his History of Music, it was in the possession of Dr. Morton of the British
Museum.--Query, Was Dr. Morton's library disposed of by auction, or what was its destiny?

2. "A MS. Treatise on the Art of Illumination, written in the year 1525." This MS. is said
by Edward Rowe Mores, in his Dissertation upon English Typographical Founders, to have been
in the possession of Humphrey Wanley, who by its help "refreshed the injured or decayed illuminations
in the library of the Earl of Oxford." The MS. was transcribed by Miss Elstob in 1710, and
a copy of her transcript was in the possession of Mr. George Ballard. Where now is the original?

3. "A Memorandum-book in the handwriting of Paul Bowes, Esq., son of Sir Thomas Bowes, of London,
and of Bromley Hall, Essex, Knight, and dated 1673." In 1783 this MS., which contains some
highly interesting and important information, was in the possession of a gentleman named Broke,
of Nacton in Suffolk, a descendant from the Bowes family; but I have not been able to trace
it further.

4. "The Negotiations of Thomas Wolsey, Cardinall." This valuable MS. was in the collection
of Dr. Farmer, who wrote on the fly-leaf,--

    "I believe several of the Letters and State Papers in this volume have
    not been published; three or four are printed in the collections at the
    end of Dr. Fiddes' Life of Wolsey, from a MS. in the Yelverton
    Library."

If I remember rightly, the late Richard Heber afterwards came into the possession of this curious
and important volume. It is lamentable to think of the dispersion of poor Heber's manuscripts.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Chantrey's Sleeping Children in Lichfield Cathedral.--In reference to a claim recently put
forth on behalf of an individual to the merit of having designed and executed this celebrated
monument, Mr. Peter Cunningham says (Literary Gazette, June 5.),--"The merit of the composition
belongs to Chantrey and Stothard." As a regular reader of the "NOTES AND QUERIES," I shall
feel obliged to Mr. Cunningham (whose name I am always glad to see as a correspondent) if he
will be kind enough to inform me on what evidence he founds the title of Mr. Stothard to a
share of the merit of a piece of sculpture, which is so generally attributed to the genius
of Chantrey?

PLECTRUM.

Viscount Dundee's Ring.--In the Letters of John Grahame of Claverhouse, Viscount of Dundee,
printed for the Bannatyne Club in 1826, is a description and engraving of a ring containing
some of Ld. Dundee's hair, with the letters V.D., surmounted by a coronet, worked on it in
gold; and on the inside of the ring are engraved a skull, and the posey--"Great Dundee, for
God and me, J. Rex."

The ring, which belonged to the family of Graham of Duntrune (representative of Viscount Dundee),
has for several years been lost or mislaid; perhaps, through some of the numerous readers of
the "NOTES AND QUERIES," information {71} might be obtained as to the place where that ring
is at present preserved, and whether there would be any possibility of the family recovering
it by purchase or otherwise.

W. C. TREVELYAN.

Duntrune, near Dundee.

The Kilkenny Cats.--I would feel obliged if any of your correspondents could give me information
as to the first, or any early, published allusion to the strange tale, modernly become proverbial,
of the ferocity of the cats of Kilkenny. The story generally told is, that two of those animals
fought in a sawpit with such ferocious determination that when the battle was over nothing
could be found remaining of either combatant except his tail,--the marvellous inference to
be drawn therefrom being, of course, that they had devoured each other. This ludicrous anecdote
has, no doubt, been generally looked upon as an absurdity of the Joe Miller class; but this
I conceive to be a mistake. I have not the least doubt that the story of the mutual destruction
of the contending cats was an allegory designed to typify the utter ruin to which centuries
of litigation and embroilment on the subject of conflicting rights and privileges tended to
reduce the respective exchequers of the rival municipal bodies of Kilkenny and Irishtown,--separate
corporations existing within the liberties of one city, and the boundaries of whose respective
jurisdiction had never been marked out or defined by an authority to which either was willing
to bow. Their struggles for precedency, and for the maintenance of alleged rights invaded,
commenced A.D. 1377. (see Rot. Claus. 51 Ed. III. 76.), and were carried on with truly feline
fierceness and implacability till the end of the seventeenth century, when it may fairly be
considered that they had mutually devoured each other to the very tail, as we find their property
all mortgaged, and see them each passing by-laws that their respective officers should be content
with the dignity of their station, and forego all hope of salary till the suit at law with
the other "pretended corporation" should be terminated, and the incumbrances thereby caused
removed with the vanquishment of the enemy. Those who have taken the story of the Kilkenny
cats in its literal sense have done grievous injustice to the character of the grimalkins of
the "faire cittie," who are really quite as demure and quietly disposed a race of tabbies as
it is in the nature of any such animals to be.

JOHN G. A. PRIM.

Kilkenny.

Robert de Welle.--Can any of your correspondents inform me of what family was Robert de Welle,
who married Matilda, one of the co-heirs of Thomas de Clare, and in 15th Edward II. received
seisin of possessions in Ireland, and a mediety of the Seneschalship of the Forest of Essex
in her right? (Rotul. Original., Record Commission, pp. 266, 277.) And how came the Irish title
of Baron Welles into the family of Knox?

Again, where can I meet with a song called the Derby Ram, very popular in my school-boy days,
but of which I recollect only one stanza,--

 "The man that killed the ram, Sir,
    Was up to his knees in blood;
  The boy that held the bucket, Sir,
    Was carried away in the flood."

I fancy it had an electioneering origin.

H. W.

Lady Slingsby.--Among many of the plays temp. Car. II. the name of "The Lady Slingsby" occurs
in the list of performers composing the dramatis personæ. Who was this Lady Slingsby?

T.

God save the Queen.--Can any correspondent state the reason of the recent discontinuance of
this brief but solemn and scriptural ejaculation, at the close of royal proclamations, letters,
&c., read during the service of the Church?

J. H. M.

Meaning of Steyne--Origin of Adur.--Can any of your correspondents give the derivation of the
word "Steyne," as used at Brighton, for instance? or the origin of the name "Adur," a small
river running into the sea at Shoreham?

F.

Col. Lilburn.--Who was the author of a book called Lieut.-Colonel John Lilburn tryed and cast,
or his Case and Craft discovered, &c., &c., published by authority, 1653?

P. S. W. E.

French Verses.--Will one of your readers kindly inform me from what French poet the two following
stanzas are taken?

D. V. S.

Home, April 29.

Porson's Imposition.--When Porson was at Cambridge, his tutor lent him a pound to buy books,
which he spent in getting drunk at a {72} tavern. The tutor set him an imposition, which he
made to consist in a dog-Greek poem, giving an account of the affair. These were the three
first lines,--

  [Greek: "Tutor emoi men poundon elendeto; ôs mala simplos]
  [Greek: Ton men egô spendon kata dômata redlionoio,]
  [Greek: Drinkomenos kai rhôromenos dia nukta bebaiôs."]

Then part of another,--

  [Greek: "--autar egô megalois klubboisin ebanchthên."]

I cannot but think that some Cambridge men know the whole, which would be invaluable to retrieve.
There is nothing about it in Kidd.

C. B.

Alice Rolle.--Can any of your readers conversant with Irish pedigrees, if they remember to
have met with this lady's name, kindly inform me where it may be found?

S. S. S.

