Cognizant of the value of this feature of gymnastic training, I have employed, within the last
twelve years, various sorts of weights, but have recently invented an iron crown, which I think
completely satisfactory. I have it made to weigh from five to thirty pounds. It is so padded
within that it rests pleasantly on the head, and yet so arranged that it requires skill to
balance it.

The skull-cap, which is fitted to the top of the head, must have an opening of two inches in
diameter at the crown, so that that part of the head shall receive no pressure. If this be
neglected, many persons will suffer headache. The skull-cap should be made of strong cotton,
and supported with a sliding cord about the centre. With such an arrangement, a feeble girl
can easily carry a crown, weighing ten or fifteen pounds, sufficiently long, morning and evening,
to secure an erect spine in a few months.

The crown which I employ is so constructed as to admit within itself two others, whereby it
may be made to weigh nine, eighteen, or twenty-seven pounds, at the pleasure of the wearer.
This is a profitable arrangement, as in the first use nine pounds might be as heavy as could
be well borne, while twenty-seven pounds could be as easily borne after a few weeks.

The crown may be used at home. It has been introduced into schools with excellent results.

Instead of this iron crown, a simple board, with an oblong rim on one side so padded with hair
that the crown of the head entirely escapes pressure, may prove a very good substitute. The
upholsterer should so fill the pad that the wearer will have difficulty in balancing it. It
may be loaded with bags of beans.

RULES FOR WEARING THE CROWN OR OTHER WEIGHT ON THE HEAD.

Wear it five to fifteen minutes morning and evening. Hold the body erect, hips and shoulders
thrown far back, and the crown rather on the front of the head.

Walk up and down stairs, keeping the body very erect. While walking through the hall or parlors,
first turn the toes inward as far as possible; second, outward; third, walk on the tips of
the toes; fourth, on the heels; fifth, on the right heel and left toe; sixth, on the left heel
and right toe; seventh, walk without bending the knees; eighth, bend the knees, so that you
are nearly sitting on the heels while walking; ninth, walk with the right leg bent at the knee,
rising at each step on the straight left leg; tenth, walk with the left leg bent, rising at
each step on the straight right leg.

With these ten different modes of walking, the various muscles of the back will receive the
most invigorating exercise.

Wearing the crown is the most valuable of all exercises for young people. If perseveringly
practised, it would make them quite erect, give them a noble carriage of the head, and save
them from those maladies of the chest which so frequently take their rise in drooping shoulders.

EXERCISES WITH RINGS.

After the exercises with the crown, those with the new gymnastic ring are the best ever devised.
Physiologists and gymnasts have everywhere bestowed upon them the most unqualified commendation.
Indeed, it is difficult to conceive any other series so complete in a physiological point of
view, and so happily adapted to family, school, and general use.

If a man were as strong as Samson, he would find in the use of these rings, with another man
of equal muscle, the fullest opportunity to exert his utmost strength; while the frailest child,
engaged with one of equal strength, would never be injured.

There is not a muscle in the entire body which may not be brought into direct play through
the medium of the rings. And if one particular muscle or set of muscles is especially deficient
or weak, the exercise may be concentrated upon that muscle or set of muscles.

Wherever these rings are introduced, they will obtain favor and awaken enthusiasm.

The rings are made of three pieces of wood, glued together with the grain running in opposite
directions. They are round, six inches in diameter with body one inch thick, and finished with
a hard, smooth polish.

The first series with the rings consists of a number of twisting exercises with the arms. Not
only are these valuable in producing freedom about the shoulder-joint, which, as has been explained,
is a great desideratum, but twisting motions of the limbs contribute more to a rounded, symmetrical
development than any other exercises. If the flexors and extensors are exercised in simple,
direct lines, the muscular outlines will be too marked.

In twisting with the rings, the arms may be drawn into twenty positions, thus producing an
almost infinite variety of action in the arm and shoulder.

Two of the positions assumed in this series are shown in the cuts.

It is our policy in these exercises to pull with a force of from five to fifty pounds, and
thus add indefinitely to the effectiveness of the movements.

To illustrate a few of the many hundred exercises possible with rings, the subjoined cuts are
introduced.

In this exercise, the rings are made to touch the floor, as shown, in alternation with the
highest point they can be made to reach, all without bending the knees or elbows.

The hands are thrust upward, outward, and downward with force.

The hands are thrust forward and drawn backward in alternation as far as the performers can reach.

It will be understood that in none of these exercises are the performers to maintain the illustrated
positions for a single moment. As in dancing, there is constant motion and change, while the
music secures concert. When, by marks on the floor, the performers are kept in linear rank
and file, the scene is most exhilarating to participants and spectators.

The above are specimens of the many charges with the rings. Shoulders, arms, back, and legs
receive an incomparable training. In constant alternation with the charges, the pupils rise
to the upright position; and when the company move simultaneously to the music, few scenes
are so brilliant.

In most exercises there must be some resistance. How much better that this should be another
human being, rather than a pole, ladder, or bar! It is social, and constantly changing.

EXERCISES WITH WANDS.

A straight, smooth stick, four feet long, (three feet for children,) is known in the gymnasium
as a wand. It is employed to cultivate flexibility, and is useful to persons of all ages and
degrees of strength.

Of this series there are sixty-eight exercises in the new system, but I have space only for
a few illustrations.

EXERCISES WITH BEAN-BAGS.

The use of small bags filled with beans, for gymnastic exercise, was suggested to my mind some
years since, while attempting to devise a series of games with large rubber-balls. Throwing
and catching objects in certain ways, requiring skill and presence of mind, not only affords
good exercise of the muscles of the arms and upper half of the body, but cultivates a quickness
of eye and coolness of nerve very desirable. Appreciating this, I employed large rubber-balls,
but was constantly annoyed at the irregularities resulting from the difficulty of catching
them. When the balls were but partially inflated, it was observed that the hand could better
seize them. This at length suggested the bean-bags. Six years' use of these bags has resulted
in the adoption of those weighing from two to five pounds, as the best for young people. The
bags should be very strong, and filled three-quarters full with clean beans. The beans must
be frequently removed and the bags washed, so that the hands and dress may not be soiled, nor
the lungs troubled with dust.

Forty games have been devised. If managers of schools are unwilling to study these games, and
organize their practice, it is hoped they will reject them altogether. If well managed, a school
of young ladies will use the bags half an hour every day for years, and their interest keep
pace with their skill; but mismanaged, as they generally have been, it is a marvel, if the
interest continues through a single quarter.

The following cuts may serve to illustrate some of the bag-exercises. It will be observed that
the players appear to be looking and throwing somewhat upward. Most of the exercises illustrated
are performed by couples,--the bags being thrown to and fro. It has been found advantageous,
where it is convenient, to suspend a series of hoops between the players, and require them
to throw the bags through these hoops, which, being elevated several feet, compel the players
to assume the positions seen in the figures.

With the bean-bags there are numberless possible games, requiring eye and hand so quick, nerves
so cool, skill and endurance so great, that the most accomplished has ever before him difficulties
to be surmounted.

In a country where pulmonary maladies figure so largely in the bills of mortality, a complete
system of physical training must embrace special means for the development of the respiratory
apparatus. The new system is particularly full and satisfactory in this department. Its spirometers
and other kindred agencies leave nothing to be desired.

Physiologists and teachers believe that the new system of gymnastics is destined to establish
a new era in physical education. It is ardently hoped that events may justify their confidence.

MR. AXTELL.

PART I.

I cannot tell who built it. It is a queer piece of architecture, a fragment, that has been
thrown off in the revolutions of the wheel mechanical, this tower of mine. It doesn't seem
to belong to the parsonage. It isn't a part of the church now, if ever it has been. No one
comes to service in it, and the only voiced worshipper who sends up little winding eddies through
its else currentless air is I.

My sister said "I will" one day, (naughty words for little children,) and so it came to pass
that she paid the penalty by coming to live in the parsonage with a very grave man. And he
preaches every Sunday out of the little square pulpit, overhung by a great, tremulous sounding-board,
to the congregation, sitting silently listening below, within the church.

I come every year to the parsonage, and in my visiting-time I occupy this tower. It is quite
deserted when I am away, for I carry the key, and keep it with me wherever I go. I hang it
at night where I can see the great shadow wavering on the ceiling above my head, when the jet
of gas, trembling in the night-wind below, sends a shimmer of light into my room.

It is a skeleton-key. It wouldn't open ordinary homes. There's a something about it that seems
to say, as plainly as words can say, "There are prisoners within"; and as oft as my eyes see
it hanging there, I say, "I am your jailer."

On the first day of March, in the year one thousand eight hundred and sixty, I arrived at the
parsonage. It was early morning when I saw the little wooden church-"steeple," in the distance,
and the sun was not risen when she who said the "naughty words" and the grave minister came
out to welcome me.

Ere the noontide came, I had learned who had gone from the village, all unattended, on the
mysterious journey, since last I had been there. There were new souls within the town. And
a few, that had been two, were called one. These things I heard whilst the minister sat in
his study up-stairs, and held his head upon his hands, thinking over the theology of the schools;
his wife, meanwhile, in the room below, working out a strange elective predestination, free-will
gifts to be, for some little ones that had strayed into the fold to be warmed and clothed and
fed. At length the village "news" having all been imparted to me, I gave a thought to my tower.

"How is the old place?" asked I, as my sister paused a moment in the cutting out of a formula
for a coat, destined for a growing boy.

"Don't get excited about the tower yet, Sister Anna," she said; "let it alone one day."

"Oh, I can't, Sophie!" I said; "it's such a length of days since I sat in the grated window!"--and
I looked out as I spoke.

Square and small and high stood the tower, as high as the church's eaves.

"What could it have been built for?"

I knew not that I had spoken my thought, until Sophie answered,--

"We have found out recently that the tower was here when the first church was built. It may
have been here, for aught we know, before white men came."

"Perhaps the church was built near to it for safety," I suggested.

"It has been very useful," said Sophie. "Not long ago, the first night in January, I think,
Mr. Bronson came to see my husband. He lived here when he was a boy, and remembers stories
told by his father of escapes, from the church to the tower, of women and children, at the
approach of Indians. One stroke of the bell during service, and all obeyed the signal. Deserted
was the church, and peopled the tower, when the foes came up to meet the defenders outside."

"I knew my darling old structure had a history," said I. "Is there time for me to take one
little look before dinner?"

"No," somewhat hastily said Sophie; "and I don't wish you to go up there alone."

"Don't wish me to go alone, Sophie? Why, I have spent hours there, and never a word said you."

"I--believe--the--place--is--haunted," slowly replied she, "by living, human beings."

"Never! Why, Sophie, think how absurd! Here's the key,--a great, strong, honest key; where
could another be found to open the heavy door? Such broad, true wards it has,--look, and believe!"

As if unhearing, Sophie went on,--

"I certainly heard a voice in there one day. Old Mother Hudson died, and was buried in the
corner, close beside the church. My husband went away as soon as the burial was over, and I
came across the graveyard alone. It was a bright winter's day, with the ground all asnow, and
no footstep had broken the fleecy white that lay on my way. As I passed under the tower I heard
a voice, and the words, too, Anna, as plainly as ever spoken words were heard."

"What were they, Sophie?"

"'But hope will not die; it has a root of life that goes down into the granite formation; human
hand cannot reach it.'"

"Who said it?" I asked.

"That is the mystery, Anna. The words were plainly spoken; the voice was that of one who has
sailed out into the region of great storms, and found that heavy calms are more oppressive."

"Was it voice of man?"

"Yes, deep and earnest."

"Where did it come from?"

"From the high window up there, I thought."

"And there were no footsteps near?"

"I told you, none; my own were the first that had crossed the church-yard that day."

"You know, Sophie, we voice our own thoughts sometimes all unknowingly; and knowing the thought
only, we might dissever the voice, and call it another's."

Sophie looked up from the table upon which she had been so industriously cutting, and holding
in one hand an oddly shapen sleeve, she gave a demonstrative wave at me, and said,--

"Anna, your distinctions are too absurd for reason to examine even. Have I a voice that could
command an army, or shout out orders in a storm at sea? Have I the voice of a man?"

Sophie had a depth of azure in her eyes that looked ocean-deep into an interior soul; she had
softly purplish windings of hair around a low, cool brow, that said, "There are no torrid thoughts
in me." And yet I always felt that there was an equator in Sophie's soul, only no mortal could
find it. Looking at her, as thus she stood, I forgot that she Lad questioned me.

"Why do you look at me so?" she asked. "Answer me! Have I the voice of a man? Listen now! Hear
Aaron up-stairs: he's preaching to himself, to convince himself that some thorn in theology
grows naturally: could I do that?"

"Your voice, I fancy, can do wonders: but about the theology, I don't believe you like thorns
in it; I think you would break one off at once, and cast it out";--and I looked again at the
rough tower, and ran my fingers over the strong protective key in my hands.

"Don't look that way, Anna,--please don't!--for your footsteps have an ugly way of following
some will-o'-the-wisp that goes out of your eyes. I know it,--I've seen it all your life,"
Sophie urged, as I shook my head in negation.

"Will you lend me this hood?" I asked, as I took up one lying near.

"If you are determined to go; but do wait. Aaron shall go with you after dinner; he will have
settled the thorn by that time."

"What for should I take Aaron up the winding stairs? There is no parishioner in want or dying
up there."

And I tied the hood about my head, and in a wrapping-shawl, closely drawn,--for cold and cannon-like
came the bursts of wind down through the mountain valleys,--I went out. Through the path, hedged
with leafless lilac-shrubs, just athrob with the mist of life sent up from the roots below,
I went, and crossed the church-yard fence. Winding in and out among the graves,--for upon a
heart, living and joyous, or still and dead, I cannot step,--I took my way. "Dear old tower,
I have thee at last!" I said; for I talk to unanswering things all over the world. In crowded
streets I speak, and murmur softly to highest heights.

But I quite forgot to tell what my tower was built like, and of what it was made. A few miles
away, a mountain, neither very large nor very high, has met with some sad disaster that cleaved
its stony shell, and so, time out of memory, the years have stolen into its being, and winter
frosts have sadly cut it up, and all along its rocky ridges, and thickly at its base, lie beds
of shaly fragments, as various in form and size as the autumn-leaves that November brings.

I've traced these bits of broken stone all the way from yonder mountain hither; and that once
my tower stood firm and fast in the hill's heart, I know.

There are sides and curves, concaves and convexities, and angles of every degree, in the stones
that make up my tower. The vexing question is, What conglomerated the mass?

No known form of cement is here, and so the simple village-people say, "It was not built by
the present race of men."

On the northern side of the tower leaves of ungathered snow still lay.

In the key-hole all winter must have been dead, crispy, last-year leaves, mingled with needles
of the pine-tree that stands in the church-yard corner; for I drew out fragment after fragment,
before I could find room for my key. At last the opening was free, and my precious bit of old
iron had given intimation of doing duty and letting me in, when a touch upon my shoulder startled
me.

'T was true the wind was as rude as possible, but I knew it never could grasp me in that way.
It was Aaron.

"What is the matter?" I asked; for he had come without his hat.

My brother-in-law, rejoicing in the authoritative name of Aaron, looked decidedly foolish,
as I turned my clear brown eyes upon him, standing flushed and anxious, with only March wind
enveloping his hair all astir with breezes of Theology and Nature.

"Sophie sent me," he said, with all the meekness belonging to a former family that had an Aaron
in it.

"What does Sophie wish?" I asked.

"She says it's dinner-time."

"And did she send you out in such a hurry to tell me that?"

"No, Anna,"--and the importance of his mission grew upon him, for he spoke quite firmly,--"Sophie
is troubled and anxious about your visit to this tower; please turn the key and come away."

"I will, if you give me good reason," I said.

"Why do you wish to go up, just now?"

