There was council that night between Ab and his friends and, as the easiest way of disposing
of the prisoners in the cave, it was proposed to block the entrance and allow the miserable
losers in battle to there starve at their leisure. But the thoughtful Old Mok took Ab aside
and said:

"Why not let them live and work for us? They will do as you say. This was the place they wanted.
They can stay and make us stronger."

And Ab saw the reason of all this and the hungry, imprisoned men were given the alternative
of death or obedient companionship. They did not hesitate long. The warmth of the valley and
its other advantages were what they had come for and they had no narrow views outside the food
and fuel question. The valley was good. They accepted Ab's authority and came out and fed and,
with their wives and children, who were sent for, became of the valley people.

This place of refuge and home and fortress was acquiring an importance.

CHAPTER XXX.

OUR VERY GREAT GRANDFATHER.

And the years passed. One still afternoon in autumn a gray, hairy man, a man approaching old
age, but without weakness of arm or stiffness of joint, as yet, sat on the height overlooking
the village. He looked in tranquil comfort, now down into the little valley, and now across
it into the wood beyond, where the sun was approaching the treetops. He had come to the hill
with the mere instinct of the old hunter seeking to be completely out of doors, but he had
brought work with him and was engaged, when not looking thoughtfully far away, in finishing
a huge bow, the spring of which he occasionally tested. Every motion showed the retained possession
of tremendous strength as well as the knowledge of its use to most advantage. A very hale old
man was Ab, the great hunter and head of the people of the Fire Valley.

A few yards away from Ab, leaning against the trunk of a beech, stood Lightfoot, her quick
glance roving from place to place and as keen, seemingly, as ever. These two were still most
content when together, and it was well for each that they had in the same degree withstood
what the years bring. The woman had, perhaps, changed less than the man. Her hair was still
dark and her step had not grown heavy. She had changed in face and expression rather than in
form. There had grown in her eyes and about her mouth the indefinable lines and tokens, pathetic
and sweet, of care, of sorrow, of suffering and of quiet gladness, in short, of motherhood.

As twilight came on the woods rang with the shouts and laughter of a party of young men who
were coming home from some forest trip. Ab, looking down the valley, over the flashing flame,
into the forest hills, in whose deep shade lay Little Mok, old Hilltop and Ab's mother, could
see the lusty youths in the village, running, leaping, wrestling and throwing spears, axes
and stones in competition. A strange oppression came upon him and he thought of Oak lying in
the ground alone on the hillside, miles away. Ab felt, even now, the strong, helpful arm of
his friend around him, just as it was in the evening journey from the Feast of the Mammoth
homeward, when he had been rescued from almost certain death by Oak. A lump rose in the throat
of the man of many battles and many trials. He shook himself, as if to shake off the memory
that plagued him. Oak came not often to trouble Ab's peace now, and when he came it was always
at night. Morning never found him near the Fire Village.

The young hunters, rioting like the young men in the valley, were passing now. Ab looked upon
them thoughtfully. He felt dimly a desire to speak to them, to tell them something about the
hurts they might avoid, and how hard it was to have a great, heavy load on one's chest at times--all
one's life--but the cave man was, as to the emotions, inarticulate. Ab could no more have spoken
his half defined feelings than the tree could cry out at the blow of the ax.

The woman left the beech tree and approached the man and touched his arm. His eyes turned upon
her kindly and after she had seated herself beside him, there was laughing talk, for Lightfoot
was declaring her desperate condition of hunger and demanding that he return to the valley
with her. She examined his bow critically and had an opinion to express, for so fine a shot
as she might surely talk a little about so manful a thing as the making of the weapon. And
as the sun sank lower and the valley fell into shadow, the two descended together, a pair who,
after all, had reason to be glad that they had lived.

And the children these two left were bold and strong and dominant by nature, and maintained
the family leadership as the village grew. With later generations came trouble vast and dire
to the people of the land, but it was not the part of this proud and seasoned and well-weaponed
group to flee like wild beasts when came drifting to the Westward the first feeble vanguard
of the Aryan overflow. The vanguard was overthrown; its men made serfs and its women mothers.
Other cave men in other regions might escape to the Northward as the wave increased, there
to become frost-bitten Lapps or the "Skrallings" of the Norsemen, the Eskimo of to-day, but
not so the people of the great Fire Valley or their stern and sturdy vassals for half a hundred
miles about. No child's play was it for those of another and still rude civilization to meet
them in their fastnesses, and the end of the struggle--for this region at least--was, not a
conquest, but a blending, a blending good for each of the two forces.

And as the face of Nature changed with the ages, as the later glacial cold wavered and fluctuated
and forced back and forth migrations of man and beast, still the first-formed group retained
coherence, retained it beyond great natural cataclysms, retained it to historic ages, to wield
long the smoothed stone weapons, and, afterward, the bronze axes, and to diverge in many branches
of contentious defenders and invaders, to become Iberian and Gaul and Celt and Saxon, to fight
family against family, and to commingle again in these later times.

Upon the beach the other day, watching the waves lap toward her, sat a woman, cultured, very
beautiful and wise in woman's way and among the fairest and the best of all earth can produce.
There are many such as she. Barely longer ago than the other day, as time is counted, a rugged
man, gentle as resolute and noble, became the enshrined hero of a vast republic, when he struck
from slave limbs the shackles of four million people. In an insular home across the sea, interested
still in the world's affairs, is an old man vigorous in his octogenarianism, a power, though
out of power, a figure to be a monument in personal history, a great man. But a few years ago
the whole world stood with bowed head while into the soil he loved was lowered the coffin of
one who has bound the nations together in sympathy for Les Miserables of the earth. In a home
on the continent broods watchfully a bald-headed giant in cavalry boots, one who has dictated
arbitrarily, as premier, the policy of the empire he has largely made. The woman upon the sands,
the great liberator, the man wonderful even in old age, the heart-stirring writer, the man
of giant personality physical and mental, have had reason to boast alike a strain of the blood
of Ab and Lightfoot. In the veins of each has danced the transmitted product of the identical
corpuscles which coursed in the veins of those two who first found a home in the Fire Valley.
Strong was primitive man; adroit, patient and faithful was primitive woman; he, the strongest,
she, the fairest and cleverest of the time, could protect their offspring, breed and care for
great children of similar powers and so insure a lasting race. Thus has the good blue blood
come down. This is not romance, this is not fancy; this is but faithful history.

THE END