In the minority of James V., Henderland Tower was occupied by Parys (supposed to be a corrupted
orthography of Paris) Cockburn. He was then comparatively a young man, and inherited, with
the property of a Border chief, all the usual characteristics of that class of lairds--a natural,
inborn valour being looked upon as the principal of all the qualities of the heart; and yet,
unfortunately, applied, by a habit that had assumed the strength of an instinct, to the strife
of contending families, the enterprises of pillage, and the contentions of a circumscribed
ambition. There was no peculiarity of the Borderers more remarkable than the union of a high
valour that would have immortalized many a knight within the palisades, and the habit of overturning
the rights of property--descending even to the grade of petty larceny. Now-a-days, theft and
cowardice are generally supposed to be nearly allied; but, in those days, the chief of a large
clan, inhabiting a stately castle, and famous for a noble courage throughout the land, could
pause, in the progress homewards, with half-a-dozen of his neighbour's kine; look, with a furacious
eye, on a bundle of hay, and regret, in his heart, that it had not four legs like a cow, by
which he could make it steal itself home to his semi-baronial residence.[3] These apparently
inconsistent and opposite qualities were possessed by the laird of Henderland. There was not
in all Liddesdale a nobler champion of the rights of war; and few there were that entered more
keenly into the spirit of enterprise, to take from his neighbour a fat steer, and then fight,
as nobly as ever did King Robert for a lost kingdom, in defence of his horned prey. The riever
in Cockburn was, however, a character of mere habit; for he possessed qualities of heart and
mind which raised him far above the Border chiefs with whom he was usually ranked. He could
fight to the effusion of blood that came from within an inch of the coronary veins of his heart,
for the property of a cow, that, next day, he would divide among the poor; and he was often
heard to say, that, if Henderland had been among "the Lowdens," he would have been a gay courtier,
a supporter of the throne, and a friend of the poor, if not the king's almoner himself. In
addition to these qualities, he carried a noble figure, and an open, intelligent countenance,
that expressed the feelings of a heart as susceptible of the social affections as it was of
the emotions that produced his lawless enterprises.

The interior of Henderland Castle, at this time, was graced by the presence of one of the fairest
of women, and the most dutiful and affectionate of wives. The lot of Marjory Scott, the wife
of Cockburn, was, indeed, in all respects, save in the possession of a husband she loved devotedly,
unfortunately cast; because, in person, mind, and heart, she was formed for gracing the polished
drawing-room of refined and civilized life, and imparting to the nursery the charm of a soft,
kind, and doting mother, whose love of strict moral discipline was only one phase of her maternal
affection. Become the wife of a Border chief from the force of an irresistible early passion,
she was as much the domesticated lover of in-door enjoyments, the cultivator of the social
affections, and the admirer of love and tranquillity, as if she had occupied a retreat in Arcadia.
She had brought her husband three children, all as fair as herself, one girl and two boys,
whom she, in playful kindness, declared she would rear in the fear of God, the love of man,
and the hearty hatred of Border rieving in all its gradations, from the laird's enforcing of
blackmail, to the prowess of the laird's Jock, whose depredations extended to the minutiæ of
Laverna's sacrifices:--

    "Baith hen and cock,
    And reel and rock,
    The laird's Jock
    All with him takes."

She had early entertained the expectation that she would cure her husband of his Border practices;
and, though she had not as yet succeeded in that hope, she had placed before him such a picture
of domestic bliss, in the working influences of all the finer and higher sentiments, seen and
heard in the acts and speech of every member of his little family, that he became daily more
reconciled to her views of the happiness of life, at the same time that he could not resist
the heart-stirring stimulus of a raid, to give him, as he said with a smile, a higher relish
for his domestic enjoyments.

A fine family picture, preserved as a legend of the house of Henderland, represents Cockburn
and Marjory sitting beneath an immense elm, the only tree of that kind near the castle, and
rendered curious on another account, with their three children beside them, engaged in swinging
from its branches, and other gambols of innocent childhood. The anxious wife had, for a time,
succeeded in her endeavours to keep her husband at home; but, latterly, some indications, on
the part of the chief's retainers, having been caught by her vigilant eye, she dreaded another
outbreak of that daring spirit which she had not yet been able effectually to quell.

"It will not conceal, Parys," said she, "that there are yet in this bosom, where your Marjory's
head has sought the refuge of love, frightened by war, some embers of your old spirit ready
to flame again. Is it not so? Love hath sharp eyes. It is not for stag hunting that your followers
are stringing their bows. The love of your old pastime, like that of an old concealed passion,
will act in such a manner as defieth all the art of concealment. I noticed, last night, as
you spoke to Scott's John, who was booming his bow to show the power of the cord, that the
sound went to your heart. Tushielaw oweth you a debt of vengeance. Is it not so? Come, now,
confess that it is not for nothing that the old sword points have been risped on the sharping-stone
on the ballium?"

"Tush, Marjory!" replied Cockburn, "you alarm the ear of the watchful Helen, who suspendeth
her play to listen to her mother's fears. Such is thy training, that our young Hector will
lose Henderland before the sods have grown together over his father's grave, in that small
burying ground around our chapel. And you have unmanned me too, Maudge. You have much to answer
for to the manes of the old Cockburns, who lie sleeping in their quiet beds there, after a
jolly life of sturdy stouthrieving from Yarrow to the Esk. What would the laird of Gilnockie
say if he heard that Cockburn's bairns were taught to read--ay, and to play on harpsichords,
and teylins, and dulcimers. By my faith, Maudge, but he would laugh a good laugh."

"And yet," answered she, "I have seen the clear drop shining in her father's eye as Helen touched
the strings to the soft melodies of Auld Scotland. Come, now, Parys, was not that sweet dream
dearer to ye than the fever of the strife of Border foray?"

"Ay, Maudge," responded he, "I confess that you have taught me that there is more in man's
heart than he himself dreams of. I once thought that the highest of human enjoyments was a
victory lost and won, with a hundred head of cattle driven before the returning host, in triumph,
to Henderland; but, in yon withdrawing-room in the west wing, in which your cunning hands have
placed the seductive couch, where one may lie and see roses blooming so near that he may smell
their odours, and hear witching strains stealing from these musical things of wood and wire,
the charm of the foray is broken, and the riever's spirit overcome. I wish I saw old Mangerton
twisting his leathern cheeks under these arts of domestic peace. Every tear would have its
avenging oath. He would trow old Henderland turret bewitched."

"But you have cunningly led me away from my subject, Parys. Is it not true that you are to
cut through my silken bands with the restless sword? Are you not again to turn the fearless
eye of the eagle on the cliff where Tushielaw hangs like a beetling crag? Is Helen's song to
be changed for the raven war-cry; and the blessings of our peaceful household, for the curses
of revengeful war?"

"How high mounteth Hector on my grandfather's elm!" responded Cockburn, playfully, evading
her question. "The fearless rogue will hang himself, and realize the prophecy of Merlin the
wild, regarding our house--

    'On Cockburn's elm, on Henderland lee,
    A Cockburn laird shall hangit be.'"

"God forfend!" ejaculated Marjory. "Hector, undo that cord, and descend. My ears ring with
old Lailoken's prophetic rhyme, when I look on that swing. I shall have it removed."

"Ha ha!" cried Cockburn, laughing, and glad to get rid of the original topic. "Don't you know,
Maudge, that my grandsire was a dabbler in prophetic visions; and, think ye, he would have
been fool enough to plant and water, as he is said to have done, his descendant's wuddy? But
I have a good mind to cut down the tree, and make Lailoken's prophecy a physical impossibility."

As Cockburn spoke, he cast his eye wistfully to the sky, as if he felt an anxiety as to the
state of the weather, an act which did not escape the observation of his wife, on whom the
allusion to Merlin's prophecy, generally current at that time, had produced an effect not remarkable
at a period when this species of soothsaying still retained the credit it had acquired by the
success of the poet of Ercildoun. At another time, her strong mind would not have acknowledged
the power of the rhythmic ravings of a wandering maniac; but she had got some obscure hints
of the wrath of the young King James V. against the Border chiefs; and the tender solicitude
of a doting wife traced, by a process perhaps unknown to herself, some connection between Merlin's
saying and the proof she now had of a concealed intention, on the part of Cockburn, to disregard
all her efforts to reclaim him, by imbuing his mind with a perception of the pleasures of domestic
happiness, from his old habits of rieving and fighting with his neighbours.

"It is--it is, Parys," she exclaimed, with a trembling voice--"It is too true that you are
bent on the execution of your old threat against Tushielaw. I have an accumulation of proofs
against you, and can read it even in your countenance. Do you love me, Parys?--say if you have
any love for your Marjory--say if your affection is changed towards those dear pledges of our
happiness, who, enjoying the sports of their age, are unconscious that their father is meditating
that which may, ere the morn's sun gild those woods, render them fatherless, and bring sorrow
o'er the house of Henderland? There are two dangers awaiting you: Tushielaw's arm, that has
incarnadined the waters of Ettrick with the blood of many a proud foe; and the vengeance of
King James, whose youthful fire his nobles, they say, cannot quell."

"This is not the cry of 'houghs in the pot,' Marjory," replied he, still laughing--"the hint
of the Border chieftains' wives, when they want more beef for the larder. But calm ye, love.
Young James will not travel hither to fulfil old Lailoken's rhyme, and Tushielaw's arm hath
no power over Cockburn. Truly, I do intend to weed thy pretty arbours, Maudge; and, peradventure,
I may even essay to sing a bass to thy sweet ballad of "Lustye May, with Flora Queen;" and
such a domesticated creature shall I be that, like Hercules, you may see me, ere long, ply
the distaff--a pretty sight for Adam Scott's warlike eye."

Cockburn's merriment fell with a lurid glare over the heart of his wife, who, seeing him determined
to cover his designs by light raillery, replied nothing; but, calling to her her three children,
kissed them, and bade them set aside their sports, and return with her to the Castle. As they
passed along, Cockburn still cast a wistful eye to the skies, which wore a threatening aspect--the
sun having been surrounded in his setting with large folds of clouds, whose bellying forms
came dipping near the mountains; while the pale form of the moon, scarcely distinguishable
in the falling gloaming, seemed to be sailing through broken masses of vapour, like a labouring
bark in a stormy sea; and, now and then, a deep hollow moan among the woods came on the ear,
like the far echo of dying thunder. About the Castle, the followers of Cockburn were observed,
by the anxious eye of Marjory, to be all secretly employed in repairing their arms or habiliments--an
occupation they threw aside, stealthily, when they saw their mistress; but not until she had
observed what they had thus endeavoured to conceal. Their countenances exhibited that mixture
of repressed joy and affected seriousness which the expectation of being gratified by a luxury
from which the heart has long been debarred by some external power, produces in the presence
of one hostile to the gratification. So strong was the desire of marauding and spoliation in
that distracted part of the country, that an expedition was then looked upon in nearly the
light in which a fair, or maiden-feast, or penny-wedding, would be contemplated by more civilized
revellers. These indications Marjory noticed; and, turning up her eyes in the face of her husband,
she sighed heavily, and sought her apartment. Soon afterwards she proceeded to put her children
to rest, making them offer up to heaven a prayer to avert from the head of their father a danger
they did not understand, but enough to them, if they saw it in the face of their mother, whose
looks were their laws, and whose smiles were the sunlight of their young hearts.

"This is a prettier sight," muttered she, in soft accents, as she looked upon the faces of
the beautiful and innocent supplicants--"this is surely a fairer sight, and better calculated
to fill and delight the heart of mortal, than what my Parys is now, I fear, preparing to behold.
How different is the expression of the faces of these innocents, upturned to heaven in supplication
and thankfulness, from the torch-flared countenances of blood and revenge which these retainers
will turn on the heights of Tushielaw, in the presence of their master! Nor is my Parys insensible
to this difference; but, wo for the force of education and habit over good hearts! Ask, my
little Hector, of your Father in heaven that, if you live to be a Border chief, you may be
loyal to your king, and a promoter of peace in the castle, and contentedness and happiness
in the cottage."

The little embryo chieftain obeyed the words of his mother; and all looked up in her face anxiously,
as they saw the tears stealing down her cheeks. Each asked the cause of her grief, and volunteered
an assuagement, as if their little swelling hearts contained the power of the instant amelioration
of her sorrow. She looked upon them in silence; and in a little time they were consigned to
rest and sleep, and utter oblivion of all the cares of this world.

After these maternal cares, Marjory sat and listened to the proceedings in the ballium of the
Castle. Cockburn did not come up, being either occupied in preparations for his expedition
against Adam Scott, or unwilling to expose his designs again to the danger of defeat, by the
expostulations or entreaties of his anxious wife. Meanwhile, as she listened, every whisper
or accidental sound of sword or spear went to her heart, and stirred up, in confused array,
the fears of love. One hope remained to her, that the moon would hide her head, and leave the
world to the empire of darkness--so unfavourable to the designs of the riever, that the moon's
minions would not fight under another power. There were clear indications in the heavens of
a coming storm; for the moon still toiled on through the clouds, and the booming of the low,
sullen wind in the woods was getting higher and higher. These sounds she hailed with hope;
but, the next moment, the clang of a falling spear consigned her to her fears. At a late hour,
Cockburn came up to his sleeping-room, and silently retired to pretended rest; while she, with
her solicitude increased, retired also to her couch, but with no disposition to become oblivious
of the fatal operations of her husband, though her tender nature forbade further efforts in
a cause that seemed hopeless. Resigning herself to the powers of fear, and the other disquieting
influences of the solemn hour of midnight, she lay quiet, and submitted to the current of inauspicious
thoughts that flowed through her mind. A disturbed slumber fell over her, sufficient only to
make a slight division between the world of dreams and that of reality, and to allow her waking
thoughts to pass in new and changing forms before the eye of the dreaming fancy, which again,
in its turn, invested them with attributes suitable to the complexion of her waking sorrows.
During this interval, Cockburn rose; and, dressing himself, went quietly out of the chamber--his
movements having only tended to give some new impulse to her half-dreamy sensations, ineffectual
as they were to recall her to the cares of a night vigil. A loud crash was the first sound
that awoke her; and opening her eyes, and becoming collected, she recognised, in the sharp
sound, the grating fall of the portcullis. A shrill horn now winded among the woods, though
its sound was scarcely distinguishable among the repressed bellowings of the night winds that
seemed to have risen considerably since she had been overcome by her slumber. She was satisfied
that the whole retinue, with her husband at their head, were off to the beetling Castle of
Tushielaw, from whose heights so many a riever had been precipitated into the Ettrick.

