'Upon love's calendar,' said the Queen, 'so it is. But have I not freely admitted, Roman, the
dependency, nay slavery, of a royal house? It would grieve my mother's heart, I need scarce
assure thee, were Julia unhappy. But grief to me might bring joy to two kingdoms.'

I then could not but urge the claims of my own family, and that by a more powerful and honored
one she could not ally herself to Rome; and might not national interest be as well promoted
by such a bond, as by one with the remoter East? I was the friend too of Aurelian, much in
his confidence and regard.

Zenobia paused, and was for a few moments buried in thought. A faint smile for the first time
played over her features as she said in reply, 'I wish for your sake and Julia's it could be
so. But it is too late. Rome is resolved upon the ruin of Palmyra--she cannot be turned aside.
Aurelian for worlds would not lose the glory of subduing the East. The greater need of haste
in seeking a union with Persia. Were Sapor dead to-day, to-morrow an embassy should start for
Ecbatana. But think not, Piso, I harbor ill will toward you, or hold your offer in contempt.
A Queen of the East might not disdain to join herself to a family, whose ancestors were like
yours. That Piso who was once the rival, and in power--not indeed in virtue--the equal of the
great Germanicus, and looked, not without show of reason, to the seat of Tiberius; and he who
so many years and with such honor reigned over the city its unequalled governor; and thou the
descendant and companion of princes--an alliance with such might well be an object of ambition
with even crowned heads. And it may well be, seeing the steps by which many an emperor of Rome
has climbed upon his precarious seat, that the coming years may behold thee in the place which
Aurelian fills, and, were I to pleasure thee in thy request, Julia empress of the world! The
vision dazzles! But it cannot be. It would be sad recreancy to my most sacred duty were I,
falling in love with a dream, to forsake a great reality.'

'I may not then--' I began.

'No, Piso, you may not even hope. I have reasoned with you because I honor you. But think not
that I hesitate or waver. Julia can never be yours. She is the daughter of the state, and to
a state must be espoused. Seek not therefore any more to deepen the place which you hold in
her affections. Canst thou not be a friend, and leave the lover out? Friendship is a sentiment
worthy godlike natures, and is the true sweetener of the cup of life. Love is at best but a
bitter sweet; and when sweetest, it is the friendship mingled with it that makes it so. Love,
too, wastes away with years. Friendship is eternal. It rests upon qualities that are a part
of the soul. The witchery of the outward image helps not to make it, nor being lost as it is
with age, can dissolve it. Friendship agrees too with ambition, while love is its most dreaded
rival. Need I point to Antony? If, Piso, thou wouldst live the worthy heir of thy great name;
if thou wouldst build for thyself a throne in the esteem of mankind, admit friendship, but
bar out love. And I trust to hear that thou art great in Rome, greater even than thine ancestor
Galba's adopted son. Aim at even the highest, and the arrow, if it reach it not, will hit the
nearer. When thou art Caesar, send me an embassy. Then perhaps--'

She closed with that radiant smile that subdues all to her will, her manner at the same time
giving me to understand that the conversation was ended, her own sentence being left playfully
unfinished.

I urged not many things which you may well suppose it came into my mind to do, for I neither
wished, nor did I feel as if I had a right, at an hour of so much public inquietude, to say
aught to add to the burden already weighing upon her. Besides, it occurred to me, that when
within so short a time great public changes may take place, and the relations of parties be
so essentially altered, it was not worth while to give utterance to sentiments, which the lapse
of a brief period might show to have been unnecessary and unwise. I may also add that the presence
of this great woman is so imposing; she seems, in the very nature and form the gods have given
her, to move so far above the rest of her kind, that I found it impossible both to say much
of what I had intended to say, and to express what I did say with the ease and propriety which
are common to me on ordinary or other extraordinary occasions. They are few, I believe, who
possess themselves fully in her presence. Even Longinus confesses a constraint.

'It is even as I apprehended,' said Fausta, as I communicated to her the result of my interview
with the Queen. 'I know her heart to have been set upon a foreign alliance by marriage with
Julia, and that she has been looking forward with impatience to the time when her daughters
should be of an age to add in this way new strength to the kingdom. I rather hoped than had
faith, that she would listen to your proposals. I thought that perhaps the earnestness of the
princess, with the Queen's strong affection for her, together with the weight of your family
and name, might prevail. But then I have asked myself, if it were reasonable to indulge such
a hope. The Queen is right in stating as she did her dependence, in some sort, upon the people.
It is they, as well as she, who are looking forward to this Persian marriage. I know not what
discontents would break out were Hormisdas postponed to Piso--Persia to Rome. My position,
Lucius, I think a sadder one than Zenobia's. I love Julia as dearly as Zenobia, and you a great
deal more than Zenobia does, and would fain see you happy; and yet I love Palmyra I dare not
say how much--nor that, if by such an act good might come to my country, I could almost wish
that Julia should live in Persia.'

I have within me a better ground of hope than is guessed either by the Queen or Fausta, but
yet can name it not. I mention this to you, and pass to other things.

       *       *       *       *       *

The city has to-day been greatly moved, owing to the expected audience of our ambassadors before
the council, and their final answer. The streets are thronged with multitudes not engaged in
the active affairs of traffic, but standing in larger or smaller crowds talking, and hearing
or telling news, as it arrives from the palace or from abroad.

       *       *       *       *       *

The die is cast The ambassadors are dismissed. The decision of the council has been confirmed
by the senate, and Varro and Petronius have with their train departed from the city. War therefore
is begun. For it was the distinct language of the embassy, that no other terms need be proposed,
nor would be accepted, beside those offered by them. None others have been offered on the part
of Palmyra. And the ambassadors have been delayed rather to avoid the charge of unreasonable
precipitancy, than in the belief that the public mind would incline to or permit any reply
more moderate than that which they have borne back to the emperor.

It is understood that Aurelian, with an army perfectly equipped, stands waiting, ready to start
for Asia on the arrival of the ambassadors or their couriers. From your last letters I gather
as much. How, again I ask--as I have often asked both myself and the principal persons here--how
is it possible there should be but one issue to this contest? Yet from language which I heard
in the senate, as well as in the private apartments of the Queen, there is a mad confidence,
that after a battle or two on the outskirts of the kingdom, in which they shall conquer as
always heretofore, an advantageous peace will end the contest. In the senate, scarce a voice
was raised for concession; its mere mention was enough to bring down the most bitter charges
of a want of patriotism, a Roman leaning, a sordid regard to the interests of commerce over
those of honor, a poor and low-minded spirit. Such as had courage to lift up a warning voice
were soon silenced by the universal clamor of the opposite party; and although the war was
opposed by some of the ablest men in the kingdom, men inferior to none of those who have come
more especially within my notice, and whom I have named to you, yet it is termed a unanimous
decision, and so will be reported at Rome.

The simple truth is however that, with the exception of these very few, there is no independent
judgment in Palmyra, on great national questions. The Queen is all in all. She is queen, council
and senate. Here are the forms of a republican deliberation, with the reality of a despotic
will. Not that Zenobia is a despotic prince, in any bad sense of the term, but being of so
exalted a character, ruling with such equity and wisdom; moreover having created the kingdom
by her own unrivalled energies and genius, it has become the habit of the people to defer to
her in all things; their confidence and love are so deep and fervent, that they have no will
nor power now, I believe, to oppose her in any measure she might propose. The city and country
of Palmyra proper are her property in as real a sense as my five hundred slaves, on my Tiburtine
farm, are mine. Nor is it very much otherwise with many of the nearer allied provinces. The
same enthusiasm pervades them. Her watchfulness over their interests, her impartiality, her
personal oversight of them by means of the frequent passages she makes among them, have all
contributed to knit them to her by the closest ties. With the more remote portions of the empire
it is very different, and it would require the operation of but slight causes to divide from
their allegiance Egypt, Armenia, and the provinces of Asia Minor.

How is not this rashness, this folly, to be deplored! Could the early counsels of Longinus
have been but heeded, all had been well. But he is now as much devoted to the will and interests
of Zenobia as any in the kingdom, and lends all the energies of his great mind to the promotion
of her cause. He said truly, that he like others is but a slave yoked to her car. His opinion
now is, that no concessions would avail to preserve the independent existence of Palmyra. The
question lies between war and a voluntary descent to the condition of a Roman province. Nothing
less than that will satisfy the ambition and the pride of Rome. The first step may be such
as that proposed by Varro--the lopping off of the late conquered provinces, leaving Zenobia
the city, the circumjacent territory, and Syria. But a second step would soon follow the first,
and the foot of Aurelian would plant itself upon the neck of Zenobia herself. This he felt
assured of, both from observation upon the Roman character and history, upon the personal character
of Aurelian, and from private advices from Rome. He is now accordingly the moving spirit of
the enterprise, going with all his heart and mind into every measure of the Queen.

I am just returned from a singular adventure. My hand trembles as I write. I had laid down
my pen and gone forth upon my Arab, accompanied by Milo, to refresh and invigorate my frame
after our late carousal--shall I term it?--at the palace. I took my way, as I often do, to
the Long Portico, that I might again look upon its faultless beauty and watch the changing
crowds. Turning from that, I then amused my vacant mind by posting myself where I could overlook,
as if I were indeed the builder or superintendent, the laborers upon the column of Aurelian.
I became at length particularly interested in the efforts of a huge elephant, who was employed
in dragging up to the foundations of the column, so that they might he fastened to machines
to be then hoisted to their place, enormous blocks of marble. He was a noble animal, and, as
it seemed to me, of far more than common size and strength. Yet did not his utmost endeavors
appear to satisfy the demands of those who drove him, and who plied without mercy the barbed
scourges which they bore. His temper at length gave way. He was chained to a mass of rock,
which it was evidently beyond his power to move. It required the united strength of two at
least. But this was nothing to his inhuman masters. They ceased not to urge him with cries
and blows. One of them at length, transported by that insane fury which seizes the vulgar when
their will is not done by the brute creation, laid hold upon a long lance, terminated with
a sharp iron goad, long as my sword, and rushing upon the beast, drove it into his hinder part.
At that very moment the chariot of the Queen, containing Zenobia herself, Julia, and the other
princesses, came suddenly against the column, on its way to the palace. I made every possible
sign to the charioteer to turn and fly. But it was too late. The infuriated monster snapped
the chains that held him to the stone, at a single bound, as the iron entered him, and trampling
to death one of his drivers, dashed forward to wreak his vengeance upon the first object that
should come in his way. That, to the universal terror and distraction of the now scattered
and flying crowds, was the chariot of the Queen. Her mounted guards, at the first onset of
the maddened animal, putting their horses to their speed, by quick leaps escaped. The horses
attached to the chariot, springing forward to do the same, urged by the lash of the charioteer,
were met by the elephant with straightened trunk and tail, who, in the twinkling of an eye,
wreathed his proboscis round the neck of the first he encountered, and wrenching him from his
harness, whirled him aloft and dashed him to the ground. This I saw was the moment to save
the life of the Queen, if it was indeed to be saved. Snatching from a flying soldier his long
spear, and knowing well the temper of my horse, I ran upon the monster as he disengaged his
trunk from the crushed and dying Arabian for a new assault, and drove it with unerring aim
into his eye, and through that opening on into the brain. He fell as if a bolt from heaven
had struck him. The terrified and struggling horses of the chariot were secured by the now
returning crowds, and the Queen and the princesses relieved from the peril which was so imminent,
and had blanched with terror every cheek but Zenobia's. She had stood the while, I was told--there
being no exertion which she could make--watching with eager and intense gaze my movements,
upon which she felt that their safety, perhaps their lives, depended.

It all passed in a moment. Soon as I drew out my spear from the dying animal, the air was rent
with the shouts of the surrounding populace. Surely, at that moment I was the greatest, at
least the most fortunate, man in Palmyra. These approving shouts, but still more the few words
uttered by Zenobia and Julia, were more than recompense enough for the small service I had
performed; especially, however, the invitation of the Queen:

'But come, noble Piso, leave not the work half done; we need now a protector for the remainder
of the way. Ascend, if you will do us such pleasure, and join us to the palace.'

I needed no repeated urging, but taking the offered seat--whereupon new acclamations went up
from the now augmented throngs--I was driven, as I conceived, in a sort of triumph to the palace,
where passing an hour, which it seems to me held more than all the rest of my life, I have
now returned to my apartment, and relate what has happened for your entertainment. You will
not wonder that for many reasons my hand trembles, and my letters are not formed with their
accustomed exactness.

Again I am interrupted. What can be the meaning of the noise and running to and fro which I
hear? Some one with a quick, light foot approaches.

It is now night. The palace is asleep, but I take again my pen to tell you of the accomplishment
of the dear object for which I have wandered to this distant spot. Calpurnius is arrived!

The quick, light foot by which I was disturbed was Fausta's. I knew it, and sprang to the door.
She met me with her bright and glowing countenance bursting with expression. 'Calpurnius!'
said she, 'your brother! is here'--and seizing my hand drew me to the apartment where he sat
by the side of Gracchus; Isaac, with his inseparable pack, standing near.

I need not, as I cannot, describe our meeting. It was the meeting of brothers--yet of strangers--and
a confusion of wonder, curiosity, vague expectation, and doubt, possessed the soul of each.
I trust and believe, that notwithstanding the different political bias which sways each, the
ancient ties which bound us together as brothers will again unite us. The countenance of Calpurnius,
though dark and almost stern in its general expression, yet unbends and relaxes frequently
and suddenly, in a manner that impresses you forcibly with an inward humanity as the presiding
though often concealed quality of his nature. I can trace faintly the features which have been
stamped upon my memory--and the form too--chiefly by the recollected scene of that bright morning,
when he with our elder brother and venerable parent gave me each a last embrace, as they started
for the tents of Valerian. A warmer climate has deepened the olive of his complexion, and at
the same time added brilliancy to an eye by nature soft as a woman's. His Persian dress increases
greatly the effect of his rare beauty, yet I heartily wish it off, as it contributes more I
believe than the lapse of so many years to separate us. He will not seem and feel as a brother
till he returns to the costume of his native land. How great this power of mere dress is upon
our affections and our regard, you can yourself bear witness, when those who parted from you
to travel in foreign countries have returned metamorphosed into Greeks, Egyptians, or Persians,
according to the fashions that have struck their foolish fancies. The assumed and foreign air
chills the untravelled heart as it greets them. They are no longer the same. However the reason
may strive to overcome what seems the mere prejudice of a wayward nature, we strive in vain--nature
will be uppermost--and many, many times have I seen the former friend-ships break away and perish.

I could not but be alive to the general justness of the comparison instituted by Isaac, between
Calpurnius and Julia. There are many points of resemblance. The very same likeness in kind
that we so often observe between a brother and sister--such as we have often remarked in our
nephew and niece, Drusus and Lavinia--whose dress being changed, and they are changed.

No sooner had I greeted and welcomed my brother, than I turned to Isaac and saluted him, I
am persuaded, with scarcely less cordiality.

'I sincerely bless the gods,' said I, 'that you have escaped the perils of two such passages
through the desert, and are safe in Palmyra. May every wish of your heart, concerning your
beloved Jerusalem, be accomplished. In the keeping of Demetrius will you find not only the
single talent agreed upon in case you returned, but the two which were to be paid had you perished.
One such tempest upon the desert, escaped, is more and worse than death itself met softly upon
one's bed.'

'Now, Jehovah be praised,' ejaculated Isaac, 'who himself has moved thy heart to this grace!
Israel will feel this bounty through every limb, it will be to her as the oil of life.'

'And my debt,' said Calpurnius, 'is greater yet, and should in reason be more largely paid.
Through the hands of Demetrius I will discharge it.'

'We are all bound to you,' said Fausta, 'more than words can tell or money pay.'

'You owe more than you are perhaps aware of to the rhetoric of Isaac,' added Calpurnius. 'Had
it not been for the faithful zeal and cunning of your messenger in his arguments not less than
his contrivances, I had hardly now been sitting within the walls of Palmyra.'

'But then again, noble Roman,' said Isaac, 'to be honest, I ought to say what I said not--for
it had not then occurred--in my letter to thy brother, how by my indiscretion I had nearly
brought upon myself the wrath, even unto death, of a foul Persian mob, and so sealed thy fate
together with my own. Ye have heard doubtless of Manes the Persian, who deems himself some
great one, and sent of God? It was noised abroad ere I left Palmyra, that for failing in a
much boasted attempt to work a cure by miracle upon the Prince Hormisdas, he had been strangled
by order of Sapor. Had he done so, his love of death-doing had at length fallen upon a proper
object, a true child of Satan. But as I can testify, his end was not such, and is not yet.
He still walks the earth, poisoning the air he breathes, and deluding the souls of men. Him
I encountered one day, the very day I had despatched thy letter, in the streets of Ecbatana,
dogged at the heels by his twelve ragged apostles, dragging along their thin and bloodless
limbs, that seemed each step ready to give way beneath the weight, little as it was, they had
to bear. Their master, puffed up with the pride of a reformer, as forsooth he holds himself,
stalked by at their head, drawing the admiration of the besotted people by his great show of
sanctity, and the wise saws which every now and then he let drop for the edification of such
as heard. Some of these sayings fell upon my ear, and who was I, to hear them and not speak?
Ye may know that this false prophet has made it his aim to bring into one the Magian and Christian
superstitions, so that by such incongruous and deadly mixture he might feed the disciples of
those two widely sundered religions, retaining, as he foolishly hoped, enough of the faith
of each to satisfy all who should receive the compound. In doing this he hath cast dirt upon
the religion of the Jew, blasphemously teaching that our sacred books are the work of the author
of evil, while those of Christ are by the author of good. With more zeal, it must be confessed,
than wisdom, seeing where I was and why I was there, I resisted this father of lies, and withstood
him to his face. 'Who art thou, bold blasphemer,' I said, 'that takest away the Godhead, breaking
into twain that which is infinite and indivisible? Who art thou to tread into the dust the
faith of Abraham, and Moses, and the prophets, imputing their words, uttered by the spirit
of Jehovah, to the great enemy of mankind? I wonder, people of Ecbatana, that the thunders
of God sleep, and strike him not to the earth as a rebel--nay, that the earth cleaveth not
beneath him and swalloweth him not up, as once before the rebels Korah, Dathan, and Abiram;'
and much more in the same mad way, till while I was yet speaking, those lean and hungry followers
of his set upon me with violence, crying out against me as a Jew, and stirring up the people,
who were nothing unwilling, but fell upon me, and throwing me down, dragged me to a gate of
the city, and casting me out as I had been a dead dog, returned themselves like dogs to their
vomit--that accursed dish of Manichean garbage. I believed myself for a long while surely dead;
and in my half conscious state took shame to myself, as I was bound to do, for meddling in
the affairs of Pagan misbelievers--putting thy safety at risk. Through the compassion of an
Arab woman dwelling without the walls, I was restored and healed--for whose sake I shall ever
bless the Ishmaelite. I doubt not, Roman, while I lay at the hut of that good woman, thou thoughtest
me a false man?'

'I could not but think so,' said Calpurnius, 'and after the strong desire of escape which you
had at length kindled, I assure you I heaped curses upon you in no stinted measure.'

'But all has ended well and so all is well,' said Fausta, 'and it was perhaps too much to expect,
Isaac, that you should stand quietly by and hear the religion of your fathers traduced. You
are well rewarded for what you did and suffered, by the light in which your tribe will now
regard you, as an almost-martyr, and owing to no want of will, or endeavor on your part, that
almost did not end in quite. Hannibal, good Isaac, will now see to your entertainment.'

'One word if it please you,' said Isaac, 'before I depart. The gentile despises the Jew. He
charges upon him usury and extortion. He accuses him of avarice. He believes him to subsist
upon the very life blood of whomsoever he can draw into his meshes. I have known those who
have firm faith that the Jew feeds but upon the flesh and blood of Pagan and Christian infants,
whom, by necromantic power, he beguiles from their homes. He is held as the common enemy of
man, a universal robber, whom all are bound to hate and oppress. Reward me now with your belief,
better than even the two gold talents I have earned, that all are not such. This is the charity,
and all that I would beg; and I beg it of you, for that I love you all, and would have your
esteem. Believe that in the Jew there is a heart of flesh as well as in a dog. Believe that
some noble ambition visits his mind as well as yours. Credit it not--it is against nature--that
any tribe of man is what you make the Jew. Look upon me, and behold the emblem of my tribe.
What do you see? A man bent with years and toil; this ragged tunic his richest garb; his face
worn with the storms of all climates; a wanderer over the earth; my home--Piso, thou hast seen
it--a single room, with my good dromedary's furniture for my bed at night, and my seat by day;
this pack my only apparent wealth. Yet here have I now received two gold talents of Jerusalem!--what
most would say were wealth enough, and this is not the tythe of that which I possess. What
then? Is it for that I love obscurity, slavery, and a beggar's raiment, that I live and labor
thus, when my wealth would raise me to a prince's state? Or is it that I love to sit and count
my hoarded gains? Good friends, for such you are, believe it not. You have found me faithful
and true to my engagements; believe my word also. You have heard of Jerusalem, once the chief
city of the East, where stood the great temple of our faith, and which was the very heart of
our nation, and you know how it was beleaguered by the Romans, and its very foundations rooted
up, and her inhabitants driven abroad as outcasts, to wander over the face of the earth, with
every where a country, but no where a home. And does the Jew, think you, sit down quietly under
these wrongs? Trajan's reign may answer that. Is there no patriotism yet alive in the bosom
of a Jew? Will every other toil and die for his country and not the Jew? Believe me again,
the prayers which go up morning, noon and night, for the restoration of Jerusalem, are not
fewer than those which go up for Rome or Palmyra. And their deeds are not less; for every prayer
there are two acts. It is for Jerusalem! that you behold me thus in rags, and yet rich. It
is for her glory that I am the servant of all and the scorn of all, that I am now pinched by
the winters of Byzantium, now scorched by the heats of Asia, and buried beneath the sands of
the desert. All that I have and am is for Jerusalem. And in telling you of myself, I have told
you of my tribe. What we do and are is not for ourselves, but for oar country. Friends, the
hour of our redemption draweth nigh. The Messiah treads in the steps of Zenobia! and when the
East shall behold the disasters of Aurelian--as it will--it will behold the restoration of
that empire, which is destined in the lapse of ages to gather to itself the glory and dominion
of the whole earth.'

Saying these words, during which he seemed no longer Isaac the Jew, but the very Prince of
the Captivity himself, he turned and took his departure.

Long and earnest conversation now ensued, in which we received from Calpurnius the most exact
accounts of his whole manner of life during his captivity; of his early sufferings and disgraces,
and his late honors and elevation; and gave in return similar details concerning the history
of our family and of Rome, during the same period of time. I will not pretend to set down the
narrative of Calpurnius. It was delivered with a grace which I can by no means transfer to
these pages. I trust you may one day hear it from his own lips. Neither can I tell you how
beautiful it was to see Fausta hanging upon his words, with a devotion that made her insensible
to all else--her varying color and changing expression showing how deeply she sympathized with
the narrator. When he had ended, and we had become weary of the excitement of this first interview,
Fausta proposed that we should separate to meet again at supper. To this we agreed.

According to the proposal of Fausta, we were again, soon as evening had come, assembled around
the table of the princely Gracchus.

When we had partaken of the luxuries of the feast, and various lighter discourse had caused
the time to pass by in an agreeable manner, I said thus, turning to my brother:

'I would, Calpurnius, that the temper of one's mind could as easily be changed as one's garments.
You now seem to me, having put off your Persian robes, far more like Piso than before. Your
dress, though but in part Roman and part Palmyrene, still brings you nearer. Were it wholly
Roman it were better. Is nothing of the Persian really put off, and nothing of the Roman put
on, by this change?'

'Whatever of the Persian there was about me,' replied Calpurnius, 'I am free to say I have
laid aside with my Persian attire. I was a Persian not by choice and preference, I need scarcely
assure you, but by a sort of necessity, just as it was with my costume. I could not procure
Roman clothes if I would. I could not help too putting off the Roman--seeing how I was dealt
by--and putting on the Persian. Yet I part with whatever of the Persian has cleaved to me without
reluctance--would it were so that I could again assume the Roman--but that can never be. But
Isaac has already told you all.'

'Isaac has indeed informed me in his letter from Ecbatana, that you had renounced your country,
and that it was the expectation of war with Rome that alone had power to draw you from your
captivity. But I have not believed that you would stand by that determination. The days of
republican patriotism I know are passed, but even now under the empire our country has claims
and her children owe her duties.'

'The figure is a common one,' Calpurnius answered, 'by which our country is termed a parent,
and we her children. Allow it just. Do I owe obedience to an unjust or tyrannical parent? to
one who has abandoned me in helplessness or exposed me in infancy? Are not the natural ties
then sundered?'

'I think not,' I replied; 'no provocation nor injury can justify a parricidal blow. Our parent
is our creator--in some sense a God to us. The tie that binds us to him is like no other tie;
to do it violence, is not only a wrong, but an impiety.'

'I cannot think so,' he rejoined. 'A parent is our creator, not so much for our good as his
own pleasure. In the case of the gods this is reversed: they have given us being for our advantage,
not theirs. We lie under obligation to a parent then, only as he fulfils the proper duties
of one. When he ceases to be virtuous, the child must cease to respect. When he ceases to be
just, or careful, or kind, the child must cease to love. And from whomsoever else then the
child receives the treatment, becoming a parent, that person is to him the true parent. It
is idle to be governed by names rather than things; it is more, it is mischievous and injurious.'

'I still am of opinion,' I replied, 'that nature has ordained what I have asserted to be an
everlasting and universal truth, by the instincts which she has implanted. All men, of all
tribes, have united in expressions of horror against him who does violence to his parents.
And have not the poets truly painted, when they have set before us the parricide, forever after
the guilty act, pursued by the Furies, and delivered over to their judicial torments?'

'All instincts,' he replied, 'are not to be defended: some animals devour their own young as
soon as born. Vice is instinctive. If it be instinctive to honor, and love, and obey a vicious
parent, to be unresisting under the most galling oppression, then I say, the sooner reason
usurps the place of instinct the safer for mankind. No error can be more gross or hurtful,
than to respect vice because of the person in whom it is embodied, even though that person
be a parent. Vice is vice, injustice is injustice, wrong is wrong, wheresoever they are found;
and are to be detested and withstood. But I might admit that I am in an error here; and still
maintain my cause by denying the justice of the figure by which our country is made our parent,
and our obligations to her made to rest on the same ground. It is mere fancy, it is a nullity,
unless it be true, as I think it is, that it has been the source of great mischiefs to the
world, in which case it cannot be termed a nullity, but something positively pernicious. What
age of the world can be named when an insane devotion to one's country has not been the mother
of war upon war, evil upon evil, beyond the power of memory to recount? Patriotism, standing
for this instinctive slavery of the will, has cursed as much as it has blessed mankind. Men
have not reasoned, they have only felt: they have not inquired, is the cause of my country
just--but is it her cause? That has ever been the cry in Rome. "Our country! our country!--right
or wrong--our country!" It is a maxim good for conquest and despotism; bad, for peace and justice.
It has made Rome mistress of the world, and at the same time the scourge of the world, and
trodden down into their own blood-stained soil the people of many a clime, who had else dwelt
in freedom. I am no Roman in this sense, and ought never to have been. Admit that I am not
justified in raising my hand against the life of a parent--though if I could defend myself
against violence no otherwise, I should raise that hand--I will never allow that I am to approve
and second with my best blood all the acts of my country; but when she errs am bound, on the
other hand, to blame, and if need be oppose. Why not? What is this country? Men like myself.
Who enact the decrees by which I am to be thus bound? Senators, no more profoundly wise perhaps,
and no more irreproachably virtuous, than myself. And do I owe their judgments, which I esteem
false, a dearer allegiance than I do to my own, which I esteem right and true? Never: such
patriotism is a degradation and a vice. Rome, Lucius, I think to have dealt by me and the miserable
men who, with me, fell into the hands of Sapor, after the manner of a selfish, cold-hearted,
unnatural parent, and I renounce her, and all allegiance to her. I am from this hour a Palmyrene,
Zenobia is my mother, Palmyra my country.'

'But,' I could not but still urge, 'should no distinction be made between your country and
her emperor? Is the country to rest under the imputation which is justly perhaps cast upon
him? That were hardly right. To renounce Gallienus, were he now emperor, were a defensible
act: But why Rome or Aurelian?'

'I freely grant, that had a just emperor been put upon the throne, a man with human feelings,
the people, had he projected our rescue or revenge, would have gone with him. But how is their
conduct to be defended during the long reign of the son of Valerian? Was such a people as the
people of Rome to conform their minds and acts to a monster like him? Was that the part of
a great nation? Is it credible that the senate and the people together, had no power to compel
Gallienus to the performance of his duties to his own father, and the brave legions who fell
with him? Alas! they too wanted the will.'

'O not so, Calpurnius,' I rejoined; 'Gallienus wished the death or captivity of his father,
that he might reign. To release him was the last act that wretch could have been urged to do.
And could he then have been made to interpose for the others? He might have been assassinated,
but all the power of Rome could not have compelled him to a war, the issue of which might have
been, by the rescue of Valerian, to lose him his throne.'

'Then he should have been assassinated. Rome owed herself a greater duty than allegiance to
a beast in human form.'

'But, Galpurnius, you now enjoy your liberty. Why consider so curiously whence it comes? Besides,
you have, while in Persia, dwelt in comfort, and at last even in magnificence. The Prince himself
has been your companion and friend.'

'What was it,' he replied, 'what was it, when I reflected upon myself, but so much deeper degradation,
to find that in spite of myself I was every day sinking deeper and deeper in Persian effeminacy?
What was it but the worst wretchedness of all to feel as I did, that I, a Roman and a Piso,
was losing my nature as I had lost my country? If any thing served to turn my blood into one
hot current of bitterness and revenge, it was this. It will never cool till I find myself,
sword in hand, under the banners of Zenobia. Urge me no more: it were as hopeful an endeavor
to stem the current of the Euphrates, as to turn me from my purpose. I have reasoned with you
because you are a brother, not because you are a Roman.'

'And I,' I replied, 'can still love you, because you are a brother, nor less because you are
also a Palmyrene. I greet you as the head of our house, the elder heir of an illustrious name.
I still will hope, that when these troubles cease, Rome may claim you as her own.'

'No emperor,' he answered, 'unless he were a Piso, I fear, would permit a renegade of such
rank ever to dwell within the walls of Rome. Let me rather hope, that when this war is ended,
Portia may exchange Rome for Palmyra, and that here, upon this fair and neutral ground, the
Pisos may once more dwell beneath the same roof.'

