In the mean time Sir Philip Hastings had fallen into a profound reverie, only repeating to
himself the words "John Groves." Now the train of thought which was awakened in his mind, though
not quite new, was unpleasant to him; for the time when he first became familiar with that
name was immediately subsequent to the opening of his father's will, in which had been found
a clause ordering the payment of a considerable sum of money to some very respectable trustees,
for the purpose of purchasing an annuity in favor of one John Groves, then a minor.

There had been something about the clause altogether which the son and heir of Sir John Hastings
could not understand, and did not like. However, the will enjoined him generally to make no
inquiry whatsoever into the motives of any of the bequests, and with his usual stern rigidity
in what he conceived right, he had not only asked no questions, but had stopped bluntly one
of the trustees, who was about to enter into some explanations. The money was paid according
to directions received, and he had never heard the name of John Groves from that moment till
it issued from the lips of the ruffian upon the present occasion.

"What the man says may be true," said Sir Philip Hastings, at length; "there is a person of
the name he mentions. I know not how I can have offended him. It may be as well to let him
rise and catch his horse if he can; but remember, Master Cutter, my eye is upon you; two competent
witnesses have seen you in possession of that horse, and if you attempt to sell him, you will
hang for it."

"I know better than to do that," said the bruiser, rising stiffly from the ground as the stranger
withdrew his foot; "but I can tell you, Sir Philip, others have their eyes upon you, so you
had better look to yourself. You hold your head mightily top high, just now: but it may chance
to come down."

Sir Philip Hastings did not condescend to reply, even by a look; but turning to the stranger,
as if the man's words had never reached his ear, he said, "I think we had better ride on, sir.
You seem to be going my way. Night is falling fast, and in this part of the country two is
sometimes a safer number to travel with than one."

The other bowed his head gravely, and remounting their horses they proceeded on the way before
them, while Tom Cutter, after giving up some five minutes to the condemnation of the eyes,
limbs, blood, and soul of himself and several other persons, proceeded to catch the horse which
he had been riding as fast as he could. But the task proved a difficult one.

TO BE CONTINUED.

CYPRUS AND THE LIFE LED THERE.

"Eidolon, or the Trial of a Soul, and other Poems," is the title of a new volume of verses
from the press of Pickering, written by WALTER R. CASSELS, a student of the school of Shelley,
and Keats, and Tennyson, and Browning. A favorable specimen of his abilities is offered in
the following description of Cyprus:

      Amid it riseth Olympus,
      Stately and grand as the throne of the gods,
    And the island sleeps 'neath its shadow
    Like a fair babe 'neath the care of its father.
      Streams clear as the diamond
      Evermore wander around it,
    Like the vein'd tide through our members,
    Quick with the blessings of beauty,
    And health and verdurous pleasure,
        Filling with yellow sheaves
    And plenty the bosom of Ceres;
    Calling forth flowers from the slumbering earth,
      Like thoughts from the dream of a poet,
    Till the island throughout is a garden,
    The child and the plaything of summer.

    "In luscious clusters the fruit hangs
    In the sunshine, melting away
      From swetness to sweetness;
    The grapes clustering 'mid leaves,
    That give their bright hue to the eye
      Like the setting of rubies;
    The nectarines and pomegranates
      Glowing with crimson ripeness,
    And the orange trees with their blossoms
    Yielding sweet odor to every breeze,
        As the incense flows from the censer.

    "The air is languid with pleasure and love,
    Lulling the senses to dreams Elysian,
      Making life seem a glorious trance,
      Full of bright visions of heaven,
      Safe from the touch of reality,
      Toil none--woe none--pain,
    Wild and illusive as sleep-revelations.
    Time to be poured like wine from a chalice
        Sparking and joyous for aye,
      Drain'd amid mirth and music,
        The brows circled with ivy,
      And the goblets at last like a gift
        Thrust in the bossom of slumber.

        "Thus are the people of Cyprus;
    Young men and old making holiday,
        Decking them daintily forth
        In robes of Sidonian purple;
    The maidens all beauteous, but wanton,
        Foolishly flinging youth's gifts,
      Its jewels--its richest adornment,
      Like dross on the altar of pleasure;
        Letting the worm of mortality
      Eat out their hearts till they bear
      Only the semblance of angels."

BOOK THIRD.

We left young Rovero in despair, yielding to the stupefaction which overpowered him, just as
the singer leaned over his bed to be assured that he was asleep. La Felina looked at him for
some time in silence, with pity in her eyes. "Why does he love me?" said she; "what have I
done? why should this poor lad love one who scarcely knew him?"

Rovero moved. "Heavens! is the effect of the narcotic over? Will he awaken?"

"Felina!" murmured Taddeo.

"My name ever on his lips and in his heart. Yes! I was right in avoiding another interview:
this letter tells all." She took a paper from her bosom. "But if he resist my prayer, if he
shrink from the duty imposed on him by honor and humanity! He alone can accomplish it--all
my hope is in him!"

She approached the table, and by the pale moonlight looked at the flask of Massa wine. A single
glass had been taken from it. "One glass!" said she, "only one glass? His sleep cannot be long.
This torpor will terminate before any one enters his cell. But Lippiani the turnkey is devoted
to me, and will see nothing."

Drawing near the bed she took out of her fine hair a long gold pin, with which to fasten the
letter on his pillow, so that his eyes would rest on it when he awoke. While Felina's face
was near Rovero's as she put the letter beneath his head, her warm breath hung on his lips;
they pressed hers, and, terrified, she sprang from his side.

The prisoner dreamed of happiness, and doubted not that his fancy was realized. Whether this
kiss had overcome his torpor, or whether, as La Felina thought, the narcotic had been taken
in such small quantity that it had produced but a slight effect, Taddeo tossed on his bed.
The singer, terrified at these signs, which were the precursors of his awakening, disappeared
by the secret passages through which she had entered. An hour rolled by before Taddeo could
triumph over his sleep. His heavy eyes shut together in spite of himself, and his eyelashes
rested on each other. All sensation was lost in general lassitude. In the first disorder of
his mind, he asked himself if he had not again dreamed of the appearance of La Felina. Had
he not seen her approaching his bed just as he sunk to sleep, he would have been sure of it.
He shuddered at the thought that he had lost the opportunity so anxiously expected. At last
he recovered his strength, and attempted to rise. As he did so, his hand touched La Felina's
letter on the pillow. When he drew out the diamond-headed pin which fastened it, he no longer
doubted that he had actually seen her. Having been unable to rouse him, she had written to
him. He felt angry with himself. He would have given ten years of his life to regain that one
lost hour. He went to the tall window of the chapel to invoke a single ray of the moon to enable
him to read the lines which had been traced by the hand of the woman he worshipped. This consolation
was denied him. The moon was hidden by clouds, and the completest obscurity pervaded the prison.
What Taddeo suffered during the time till day, which it seemed to him would never dawn, may
be fancied, but not described. His fate was in his own hands, yet it was unknown. Ardently
clasping to his heart and to his lips the perfumed paper on which Felina had written, his heart
became intoxicated. He passionately kissed the sheet on which the singer had left her words,
and a sad presentiment of misfortune took possession of him. He almost feared the coming of
day, the light of which would reveal to him his fate.

Day dawned, at first feeble, then brighter, and still brighter, and finally brilliant and clear.
He opened the letter, and his eyes glanced over it with tender earnestness. A livid pallor
overcast his features, a nervous tremor shook him. The lines traced by La Felina he could not
read; and overcome by despair, he sank to his seat. The keeper entered. "Signor," said he to
Taddeo, "the person who visited you three days ago asks permission to see you again."

"Who is he?" said Taddeo--his voice choked with grief.

"The Marquis de Maulear."

The name recalled to the prisoner his mother and Aminta. This memory soothed his wounded heart.
"My mother, my sister," thought he; "but for their tenderness what now would be my life! Show
the Marquis in."

While the keeper was absent, he hurried to the bed, examined it anxiously as if in search for
something which had escaped his observation. Seizing the letter, he read anxiously the last
lines, approached the bed, and discovered the mysterious deposit La Felina had placed under
the pillow. He took it and concealed it carefully in his clothing; and with an accent which
betrayed the contest in his crushed heart, he said aloud, as if he wished some one to hear
him, "You judged me correctly, Felina; misfortune will not make me unjust; I will do what you ask!"

A cry of joy echoed beneath the vault of the old chapel. Taddeo turned. The cry had penetrated
his heart. But he was alone. Just then Henri de Maulear entered.

"Yesterday evening, Signor Rovero, confiding your promise, I informed the minister that, consulting
with prudent reflections, you would accept the pardon offered by the King. You are free, and
can now accompany me."

"Let us hurry to my mother, Monsieur," said Taddeo, casting one last look on the chapel walls,
which had shut up so much sorrow, happiness and torment. He followed the Marquis. An hour afterwards
two gentlemen on noble English steeds--the best the stables of the Marquis afforded--rode toward
Sorrento. One of these riders, Rovero, was melancholy, so that even the French amiability of
the Marquis could not divert him from gloomy meditations. Ever and anon a smile hung on his
lips, till chased away by some painful memory. The Marquis de Maulear, satisfied that Taddeo
concealed a secret from him, avoided any allusion to it, with the delicacy and good taste which
above all things fears indiscretion. He feigned to attribute to the reserve of a new acquaintance
his companion's coldness and absence of mind. For his own part, delighted at being able to
restore this prodigal son to the parental roof, anxious to see her whom he loved (to whom,
relying on Taddeo's promise, he had gone the evening before to announce her brother's return),
he could scarcely repress his delight.

"Signor," said he to Taddeo, at a moment when the state of the road forced them to slacken
their pace, "we have arranged all: we have left the festivities and pleasures of Naples, and
have nothing to say of your suffering and captivity."

"Not one word, Monsieur, if you please, either of what I have passed through, or of the sufferings
of my friends."

"I think your mother and sister know nothing of what you have undergone. Had they, their suffering
and alarm would have been great. But do not flatter yourself that the arrest of Count Monte-Leone
is unknown to them. One of the Neapolitan papers informed them yesterday of that fact; and
I do not hide from you, that in my presence, your mother deplored your unfortunate intimacy
with one so adventurous and rash."

"And what said Aminta?" asked Rovero anxiously, as if struck by a thought, which hitherto had
escaped him.

"Signorina said nothing," observed Maulear, with an air of surprise; "and he heard the news
with the most perfect indifference."

"To him she is unchanged," murmured Rovero.

Low as was the tone in which this was uttered, Maulear heard it, and could not repress the
question, which he put with great anxiety, "To whom is the Signorina always the same?"

"To him--to the Count," said Taddeo. "I confide to you almost a family secret. Count Monte-Leone
deeply loves my sister. He never told me so, but it is the case. If he be restored to liberty,
as his friends hope, it will be a good match for Aminta."

Every word of Rovero fell like a drop of boiling oil on the heart of Maulear.

"My father," said Taddeo, "left us but a moderate fortune. Perhaps some day we may be rich--richer
than the Monte-Leone--for we are the only heirs of the Roman Cardinal Justiniani, my mother's
brother, who, as eldest son, inherited all the property of my maternal grandfather. As yet,
however, our fortune in small, though sufficient for my tastes and ideas. But my mother and
sister have other notions; and the marriage of Aminta and Count Monte-Leone would assure her
a magnificent and brilliant portion."

"But if your sister does not love Count Monte-Leone?"

"Her refusal would make two persons unhappy; first the Count of Monte-Leone, and in the second
place----"

"And in the second place?" said Maulear.

"Myself."

"Yourself!" said Maulear, with surprise; "Are you intent on their marriage?"

"Yes," replied Taddeo, with emotion; "now, all my happiness depends on it."

Maulear was amazed at these singular words. Scarcely had they been uttered, when Taddeo spurred
his horse sharply, and rode toward the house of his mother, which he saw a few hundred yards
distant. Henri followed him, troubled, and for the first time, with a care-marked brow, paused
at Aminta's door. A fond mother clasped her son to her bosom, with that pleasure which a mother
only knows. Aminta, entirely recovered from her accident, kissed her brother affectionately.

"My son," said Madame Rovero to Taddeo, as she clasped the hand of Maulear, "beyond all doubt
the Marquis has told you what we owe him."

"The Marquis has only told me how devoted he was to you."

"Well," said Aminta, "I will be less discreet." With exquisite grace she told Taddeo all that
had passed.

"Ah, Monsieur," said he, opening his arms to the Marquis, "I would I could find some dearer
name than friend to give you."

Aminta blushed, and looked down. Maulear saw the motion, and a gentle hope stole over him.
The name which Taddeo could not think of, perhaps, suggested itself to Aminta. It was the name
Maulear was so anxious to give Rovero.

Aminta's brother wished to see the courageous child who had so heroically sacrificed himself
for her. All followed Signora Rovero to the room of the invalid. He was better. The great inflammation
of his face had disappeared, and his eyes had returned to their orbits. Apparently he was rapidly
recovering; but the cruel prediction of the physician seemed about to be verified: He will
live, but will never speak again. Only harsh and broken sounds escaped the invalid's lips.

Aminta, who had become Scorpione's nurse as soon as she was able to leave her room, had already
learned to discriminate between the modulations of his voice. A kind of mute groan called her
to him; a hiss expressed pain or impatience; but when his violent and almost savage nature
was excited, a terrible bellowing was heard, and the bravest heart might quail at the inhuman
sound. Tonio was asleep when the visitors entered his room, but he awoke, and without seeming
surprised at the curious faces that surrounded his bed, looked at them earnestly.

He first recognized Taddeo, and a contraction of his lips, which, bent from their deformity,
might have been called a smile, testified his pleasure at the visit. Aminta's presence always
produced a strange effect on Scorpione, which his inability to speak enhanced. His eyes, of
pale green, became suddenly lighted up with a peculiar and gentle languor, which was so tender
that they seemed almost attractive. This singular magnetism had a novel effect on the invalid.
But his brow soon became contracted; a violent storm seemed to agitate his heart; and the hissing
was heard.

"What is the matter?" asked Taddeo. Aminta said she did not know. He had perhaps some new suffering,
or something put him out of humor. Following the direction of Tonio's eyes, she saw they rested
sparkling and bright on those of Maulear. Aminta quailed, and Henri, who saw her tremble, hurried
to sustain her. He thought the strength of the young convalescent needed this aid. But at the
moment when the girl accepted the arm of Maulear, Scorpione rose and uttered the horrible cry
by which he expressed his impotent fury. All shuddered as they heard him. Aminta let go Maulear's
arm, and quickly sought, by gesture and words, to soothe the Cretin, as she would appease an
angry child. He became soothed at once, and Signora Rovero left him, followed by Taddeo, Maulear,
and Aminta; but Aminta did not take Maulear's arm.

II. A NIGHT AT SORRENTO.

A feeling of uneasiness had suddenly taken possession of Maulear while in the presence of Aminta
and Tonio. But he had not remarked the smile of happiness which played on the features of the
invalid when Aminta, with the most natural air in the world, took the arm of her mother instead
of his own.

"Signor," said Aminta's mother to the Marquis, as they went into the hall, "do not suffer this
festival in honor of the return of my son to be celebrated without your presence. Share our
family meal, and be satisfied that in doing so you will gratify us all."

The offer delighted Maulear, and time flew by with the rapidity love only confers on it when
passed in the presence of loved ones.

About dinner time two strangers came to the villa, the Count Brignoli and his son. The Count
was an old minister of war of Murat, and had been a colleague of Taddeo's father. He was one
of the best friends of Rovero's widow and daughter. A country neighbor, he often visited them.
His son Gaetano had been educated and brought up with Aminta, and a close friendship had been
the consequence. Gaetano was twenty years of age, and his features bore the imprint of masculine
and impressive Neapolitan beauty, deficient neither in the dark locks nor black though somewhat
glassy eye, which is as it were the ordinary seal of the countenances of the men of the south.

