Our attempt to try to help Emma decide why she got into so much difficulty resulted in a most
convincing discovery of beginnings.  We found a keynote to the situation in asking her about
the companionship which the mother had said she had broken up.  It seems that Emma had for
a year, quite clandestinely, been familiar with this family.  She apparently now desired to
reveal the results of the acquaintance.  Long ago the older sister, at present in a Reform
School, boasted of her escapades with boys.  Emma states that she herself never talked of these
topics with her mother, who had said that girls who don't do such things should not talk about
them.  But Tessie, the younger sister of the delinquent girl, says many bad words about boys.
These words and ideas about them bother Emma much.  They come up in her mind, ``sometimes at
night and sometimes in the day.''  She even dreams much about them and about boys.  ``I seen
the girls do bad things with boys.  It is in the dream, it was in the house, in the front room
on the floor.''  Emma says she never saw it in reality, but Tessie had boys in their front
room when she went there, and then came running out when she heard Emma coming.  She wonders
just what Tessie does.  Boys never bother Emma, but all these ideas bother her.  ``Then I think
that the boys are going to do it to me.''  In school she cannot study for this reason.  ``Sure,
when I start to study it comes up.  I just think about what she tells me, Tessie.  She tells
me she liked to do these things with boys.''

This little girl in the couple of interviews we had with her gave vent to much expression of
all this which had perplexed her, and she really seemed to want help.  She was very willing
to have her mother told.  She went on finally to say that the delinquent girl had taught her
long ago about masturbation and that she thinks of it every night in bed.  She can give no
explanation of why she runs away and why she falsely accused the man.  She says it was not
true at all what she said about him.  She thinks she would behave better if she were less bothered
about the things which those girls taught her.  Emma says she questioned a young woman relative
who did not tell her any more than her mother did.

Regarding her diversions Emma says that she likes reading, especially fairy tales.  She reads
mostly Andersen's Fairy Tales.  She enjoys dressing up as a grown lady and playing make-believe.
She particularly likes to go to bed early and lie and imagine things.  She imagines sometimes
that she is grown up and married and has her own home and children.

The neglect, through ignorance, of the several genetic features of Emma's case was quite clear.
The mother was made acquainted with the facts, which her little daughter then affirmed to her,
and she promised to alter conditions.  We insisted on attention to Emma's eyes and general
physical conditions, on removal from neighborhood association with these old companions, on
the necessity for motherly confidences, on watchfulness to break up sex habits, and on the
development of better mental interests.  Through relatives in the home town it seemed there
was some chance to get these remedial measures undertaken.

A year and a half later we can state that a certain number of our suggestions were followed
out.  The mother gained a better understanding of the case and there were some, although not
enough, environmental changes.  The father's mental condition has been much better, perhaps
because he has largely refrained from drink, and consequently family affairs are more stable.
The girl herself is said not to be doing perfectly either in school or home life, but to be
vastly improved.  We have obtained no definite statement concerning whether she now lies at
all or not, but it is sure that Emma has engaged in no more egregious types of prevarications
and in no more false accusations.  Competent observers think the case is fairly promising in
its general moral aspects if environmental conditions continue to improve.

---------------------------------------------------------------   
 Mental conflict.                             Case 14.            
   Improper sex teachings.                 Girl, age 13.          
     Bad companions.                     
        Home conditions: Lack of understanding                    
               and control.                               
            Father alcoholic,                                     
                 insane (?)                          
                Defective vision.      
Delinquencies:                          Mentality:      
False accusations.                      Ability fair.     
Runaway.      
Obtaining money by false representations.
---------------------------------------------------------------

CASE 15

Summary:  Girl of 16, over a period of some weeks made extreme accusations against several
members of her family.  She gave detailed account of sex immorality, alleged drunkenness and
thieving, and an attack on her own life.  She had herself, it was found, begun delinquent tendencies.
The family circumstances and her clearly detailed account gave the color of possibility to
her accusations, but investigation proved some of them false, and all of a sudden, after maintaining
for long a most convincing demeanor, she withdrew her allegations.  Both before and since this
episode she has given no marked evidence of being a falsifier.

We were asked to study this case by police officials who thought perhaps the girl was the victim
of some delusional state.  She appeared at the police station and informed them her adult brother
had been thieving from the place where he worked.  She lived with him.  Investigation by detectives
on the strength of her convincingly given details proved his innocence.  When the brother appeared
on the scene he said he had been intending to report her on account of her being away from
home.  She herself was then held in custody.

We found a girl in very good general physical condition.  Well developed in sex characteristics
and a very mature type of face.  Outside of a somewhat enlarged thyroid and moderately defective
vision, we found nothing abnormal.  Weight 114 lbs.; height 5 ft.  Notable was her strong features,
deep set eyes, high, broad forehead and sharp chin.

Our study of her on the mental side led us to denominate her as having fair general ability.
She had had poor educational advantages.  We noted much irregularity on work on tests.  She
did comparatively poorly on anything that called for careful attention and concentration. 
This was especially notable when she was dealing with abstractions or situations to be mentally
represented.  Although she could do arithmetic up to simple division she made a bad failure
in the continued process of subtraction as given in the Kraepelin test of taking 8's from 100.
In the work on the Code, Test XI, she found it altogether impossible to keep her mind concentrated.
In tests where perceptions were largely brought into play she did very well.  We noticed that
she was possessed of a very dramatic manner.  She sighed frequently as she worked.  She was
very nervous, continually moving her hands and tapping the table.  She was quite satisfied
with her superficial efforts.  It was very curious that we, as well as others, were able to
note her apparent sincere belief in her own statements about her family.  As she made them
she looked the interviewer straight in the eyes; there was not a hint of evasiveness. 

Her result on the ``Aussage'' (Test VI) was very meager.  She only recalled 10 details of the
picture.  On cross- examination she gave correctly 14 more items and was wrong on 3 of them.
She accepted only 2 out of 5 suggestions offered and these were the most probable ones.

A full family history was never to be obtained.  The best that we came ultimately to know was
that her father and mother had been long dead and she had lived in institutions for years,
then with a relative who was not at all a good person, and then with her brother and sister,
whom she bitterly accused.  These were people in decidedly poor circumstances and living in
very congested quarters.  Indeed, we were inclined to believe, finally, that crowded housing
conditions with the necessary unfortunate familiarity with sex affairs and the like was largely
responsible for her trouble.  A few months prior to these events she had become acquainted
with a girl who had drawn her into running away from home a few nights.  During her unsettled
home life she had seen a good deal of immorality in other houses, but had not been immoral
herself.  Conditions of squalor surrounded the whole situation.

Her accusations against her family as told to others, and reiterated to us, involved the drunkenness
of her own father and mother.  (We were never able to verify whether this charge against her
mother was true or not.)  Then she went on to allege extreme immorality on the part of her
three sisters.  She gave these in the utmost detail.  (There is little doubt but that one of
her sisters was rather free living before she was married.)  She constantly maintained that
she was the only virtuous one in the family and had withstood all advances.  She then recounted
much personal abuse and cruel treatment, and accused the brother and his wife of an attempt
to poison her because they wanted her out of the way. 

Her story was told in such detail, was so well remembered from time to time, and she presented
such outward form of sincerity that experienced people were led to believe there must be much
in what she said.  On one occasion, under observation, she cried nearly all of two days because
one good woman would not believe her statements.  At least she said this was the reason of
her tears.  Her general behavior during this period of observation was perfect.

We found her hazy and somewhat incoherent about a number of the details of her life, but she
had lived under such varied circumstances that this alone was not convincing of her insincerity.
When we met her brother we were very sure that at least a part of her story was false.  He
seemed to be a very decent fellow and was really interested in her.  Several months earlier
he had trouble with her on account of her staying out late at night, and had threatened her.
Then there was no more difficulty until her recent acquaintance with this other girl.  He stated
that he had been obliged to scold her very severely, and then finally she stayed away for five
nights and wound up by going to the police station and making the accusations against him and
the other members of the family.  When the case came up in court she stated she wished to go
back to live with this brother and admitted having continued misrepresentations about him and
the others in the family since her acquaintance with this girl.  It really was all false. 
She was placed under probation and the case has been, except for environmental circumstances,
entirely successful.  She is now a young married woman, and has had no further delinquent record
against her.

Our investigation of the causation showed perhaps self- protection from punishment for her
own behavior, but there was apparently much mental conflict about sex affairs and she had a
very unfortunate acquaintance with such details, resulting partly, as she acknowledged, from
her peeping through keyholes and so on.  On account of her peculiar unreliability of statement
and many quiet and staring periods, seen while she was under observation, we questioned whether
she was not verging on psychotic conditions.  However, all this tendency seems to have passed away.

---------------------------------------------------------------
Adolescent instability.                      Case 15.             
                                          Girl, 16 years.         
 Home conditions: Defective through poverty                       
                  and congestion.                
       Early sex experiences and mental conflict                  
                   about them.                     
            Reaction to own delinquencies, self                   
                protection phenomenon.                            
                      Heredity.      Mentality:      
Delinquencies:                          Fair ability, poor     
False accusations.                           advantages.
---------------------------------------------------------------

CASE 16

Summary:  A motherless girl of 9 1/2 years, following her complaint of local symptoms, which
proved to be due to vulvitis, accused her father and brother of incest.  She was a bright child
and normally affectionate, even towards these relatives.  Her father and brother were held
in jail for several weeks, but were dismissed at the trial because of the ascertained untruth
of the charges.

As causative factors of her false accusations our study showed (a) her local irritation, (b)
for which her father had treated her, (c) prior crowded housing conditions with her father
and brother, (d) her lack of mother's control, (e) early and intimate acquaintance with atrocious
sex knowledge and sex habits, and (f) recently becoming the center of interest in a group of
friends made through her statement of the vileness of family conditions.

We were requested to study this case by the judge of the court in which the father and brother
of Bessie M. were to be tried for the crime of incest with her.  At a preliminary hearing the
judge had felt that the remarkable statements of the little girl savored of untruth, and that
the character sustained by the brother, in particular, was quite out of keeping with the grave
accusations against him.  The girl's charges, so clearly detailed, together with her local
ailment, had proved thoroughly convincing to a group of women who had become interested in
her.  Bessie was evidently quite normal mentally and apparently affectionately regarded her
only near relatives--this father and brother.  Her story appeared thus entirely credible. 
The judge stated that he had been approached outside of court by these women, who in their
righteous indignation were insistent upon the need of dire punishment of the outrageous conduct
of Bessie's natural protectors.

We found a rather poorly developed little girl.  Weight 64 lbs.; height 4 ft. 4 in.  Bright,
pleasant, vivacious expression.  Attitude normal.  High, prominent, narrow forehead.  Head:
length 19 cm., breadth 13 cm.  Slightly asymmetrical frontal bosses.  Snub nose; eyes fairly
bright; ears asymmetrical in size--.6 cm.  difference in greatest length.  Thyroid palpable.
Tonsils enlarged moderately.  No sensory defect of importance.  Strength good for size.  Color
only fairly good.  (Results of gynecologic examination later.)

Bessie was given a wide range of mental tests, with the result that we classified her as being
well up to the ordinary in ability.  Indeed, considering her poor school advantages through
frequent changes of residence she did very well in the subjects covered by formal education.
Her memory processes and ability to testify correctly--in which we were naturally most interested--seemed,
so far as we were able to test them, quite normal.  Of a standard passage about a fire (Test
XII), which she read once to herself, she recalled 17 out of the 20 items.  A passage containing
12 main details (Test XIII), which was read to her in the usual way four times, she recalled
with 2 details omitted.  The ``Aussage'' test (Test VI) was done very well indeed, with 17
items of the picture given correctly on free recital, and 5 rejections out of the 7 suggestions
proffered.  Bessie's conversation was fluent and coherent, her range of information was good.
She showed fondness for the dramatic statement.

Her mother died in the old country when she was about four years old, and her father had immediately
come to America, but had never established a home of his own.  For the last nine months Bessie
had been living with a woman, Mrs. S., who was deeply interested in her.  Previously to this
she roomed for about six months with her father and brother, and prior to that time she had
been placed about in different homes by her father.  After some months with Mrs. S. she complained
of local pain and irritation.  When taken to a physician, she said her father was accustomed
to touch her, and her story involved incest by both her father and brother.  After others had
become interested in her case, the matter was turned into the hands of the police.  It was
notable that during this period Bessie's love of the dramatic was being fostered by her newly
found woman friend, who was providing her with lessons in dramatic reading and taking her extremely
frequently to moving picture shows and theatres.

When first seen by us, Bessie reiterated her story of sexual relations with her father and
brother.  As she had done with others, and with the judge, she went into almost convincing
details.  Her knowledge of such relationships was apparently complete.  She informed us that
she had caught ``an awful disease'' from her father.  She said that while rooming with them
her sexual relations with her father and brother were nightly occurrences.  They all slept
in one bed. 

A careful inquiry into Bessie's earlier knowledge of such things brought forth the most astounding
account.  One may say that this little girl had the most extensive acquaintance with many kinds
of pervert sex practices that one has ever known in a young individual.  She now said that
the last ones who engaged in such things with her were her father and brother.  Her experiences
began at 5 years with a boy and a girl, and, she maintained, they had been very frequent ever
since, up to within the last 9 months.  A number of boys and girls were involved, as well as
the men in two households where she had been placed.  The practices she had engaged in were
many, running all the way from self use of pieces of broom to normal intercourse, and both
active and passive forms of pervert practices.  It is unnecessary, even in this medical case,
to go into details or to give her actual phraseology.  It is sufficient to say that she frankly
stated her early discovery of the pleasures of local stimulation and how she asked others to
give it to her in various ways.  Then she performed different perversions on boys and men.
She told about observing sex relations between husband and wife in households where she had
lived.  She now says she had a disease before she came home to her father--a doctor had told
other people previously.  The men in two homes frequently had complete intercourse with her,
she maintains, and gives description of it.

The credible substance of Bessie's long story elaborately told upon inquiry into her life history
was that she certainly had had many sex experiences.  When, in the light of these, it finally
came to the question of the charges against her father and brother she said that it was really
she who had been the instigator.  When in bed she had begun playing with them.  She described
her method, learned before.  She now says they did not have real intercourse with her, but
the other men did. 

The account of local physical conditions as obtained from several sources is as follows.  Bessie
was taken to a physician for vulvitis, etc., by some people before she came back to her father.
During the period she roomed with her father he regularly treated her locally with a salve
and a wash.  The physician who later examined her for Mrs. S. found the parts so swollen that
he could make no diagnosis of ruptured hymen, but took it for granted.  After the father and
brother had been in jail for some weeks the inflammation had subsided.  (It is only fair to
say that the father had clamored for a specialist's examination, which, he contended, would
prove his innocence.  Of course he was not aware of her earlier experiences or he would not
have been so sure.)  Then a competent gynecologist found that coitus had never taken place.
The hymen was intact.  This was at the time we studied the case.  On the day of the trial,
I with two other physicians examined the girl.  It was found that a cotton swab about 3/8 of
an inch in diameter could with difficulty penetrate the vaginal orifice.  There was not the
slightest evidence of any rupture of the hymen or of any vaginitis.  So far as the ``awful
disease'' was concerned, repeated bacteriological tests over a considerable period failed to
show the extensive vulvitis to be due to gonorrhea.  It seemed much more likely that it was
due to nonspecific infection following traumatism from the use of the various foreign objects
which the girl told she had used.  Perhaps it was partly the result of the perversions which,
judging by her knowledge of them, had been practiced by others on her.

We were informed later that much indignation at our report to the judge was expressed by the
crowd in attendance at the trial.  The girl's first story was so well told that many had been
irrevocably convinced of the utter guilt of the father.

The father himself, who was brought to us in the course of our study of the case, was rather
a low type in appearance.  He was a poor earner, evidently had earlier been alcoholic, a small
whining figure with tears in his eyes.  His appearance would prejudice against him.  The brother,
on the contrary, made an unusually good impression.  He had the best of recommendations.  His
sister's first charges ought not to have been believed on the basis of his qualifications.
There had been 5 children, 3 died in infancy.  No history of any significance was obtained
except that the development of Bessie had apparently been normal in all ways.  Her mother was
said to be normal.  Both parents were evidently representative products of the underfeeding
and generally poor hygienic conditions of the laboring classes in a large Irish city.  There
was unquestionably a great feeling of affection between the three.  Indeed, Mrs. S. stated
that it was the excessive kissing of the child by the father which made her suspicious.  Bessie
always maintained that both father and brother treated her very well and that she loved them much.

It seemed clear to us that Bessie never knew in the least the significance of the charges she
so glibly made at first.  Her mind had long been so full of these things, and their social
import seemed so slight, that it meant no vindictiveness towards her loved ones to say what
she did about them.  She asserted to us later that she really did not know what she said to
the judge at the first hearing.  The case illustrated well the fallibility of a young girl's
accusations coming even from the lips of a normally bright and affectionate daughter or sister.

For her own protection Bessie was given a trial in an institutional school.  From there it
was reported after a few months that her mind was found to be so continually upon sex subjects
that it would be most advisable for her to remain long under the quietest conditions and closest
supervision.

