[Clark, August 28, 1806] Thursday 28th of August 1806 Capt Lewis had a bad nights rest and
is not very well this morning. we Set out early and proceded on very well, Saw a number of
Buffalow bulls on the banks in different places. passd the 3 rivers of the Seioux pass at 9
A.M. a Short distance below on the S W Side Sent out Reubin & Joseph Feild to hunt for the
Mule deer or the antilope neither of which we have either the Skins or Scellitens of, we detected
those two men to proceed on down to the places we encamped the 16th & 17th of Septr. 1804 and
which place the party had called pleasant Camp from the great abundance of Game Such as Buffalow
Elk, antilopes, Blacktail or mule deer, fallow deer, common deer wolves barking Squirels, Turkies
and a variety of other animals, aded to which there was a great abundance of the most delicious
plumbs and grapes. this Situation which is a Short distance above the enterance of Corvus Creek
we are deturmined to delay one day for the purpose of prcureing the sceletins of the Mule deer
& antilope, and Some barking Squirels. a fiew miles below the place the 2 Fields were Set on
Shore we Set Drewyer and Labeech on Shore with the Same directions which had been given to
the 2 field's at 12 oClock we Landed on the S W. Side at the Same Spot which we had encamped
on the 16th and 17th of September 1804, and formed a Camp, Sent out Serjt. Pryor, Shields,
Go. Gibson, Willard and Collins to hunt in the plains up Corvus Creek for the Antilope and
Mule deer Sent out Bratten and Frazier to kill the barking Squirel, and Gave directions to
all of them to kill the Magpye if they Should See any of them Several of the men and the Squaws
of the enterpreter Jessomme and the Mandan Chief went to Some plumb bushes in the bottom and
geathered more plumbs than the party Could eate in 2 days, those blumbs are of 3 Speces, the
most of them large and well flavored. our Situation is pleasent a high bottom thinly timbered
and covered with low grass without misquitors. at 3 P. M Drewyer and Labeech arived, the latter
haveing killd. a Deer of the Common Speceis only. in the evening late all the hunters returned
without any Speces of animal we were in want of, they killed 4 Common deer and two buffalow
a part of the best of the meat of those animals they brought in. we precured two of the barking
Squirels only. as we Could not precere any Mule deer or antelope we concluded to Send the hunters
on a head early in the morning and delay untill 10 A. M to give them time to hunt. I derected
Shannon & Collins to go on the opposit Side, and Labeech and Willard to proceed down on this
Side at Some distance from the river and join the party at the round Island &c. and R. Field
to proceed on Slowly in the Small Canoe to that place and take in any thing which the hunters
might kill. Made 32 miles to day

The hunters informed me that they Saw great numbers of Buffalow in the plains. I Saw Several
herds of those animals on either Side to day at a distance.

[Clark, August 29, 1806] Friday 29th August 1806 a cloudy morning the hunters proceeded on
agreeable to their orders of last night. I Sent out two men to the village of barking Squirels
with direcitions to kill Some of them. they after 2 hours returned and informed me that not
one of those Squirels were to be Seen out of their holes. the Skins of the party which they
had been dressing Since yesterday being now completely dressed I derected all loose baggage
to be put on board the Canoes and at 10 A.M. Set out and proceeded on passed the white river
at 12 oClock and halted below the enterance of Shannons Creek where we were joined by Labeech
Shannon and Willard, they had killed 2 common der but no Mule deer or antilopes. Willard informed
me that he Saw 2 antilopes but Could not get near to them. Willard and Labiech waded white
river a fiew miles above its enterance and inform me that they found it 2 feet water and 200
yards wide. the water of this river at this time nearly as white as milk. put Drewyer out to
hunt on the S W. Side and proceeded on below the round Island and landed on the N. E. Side
I with Several of the men went out in pursute of Buffalow. the men killed 2 Bulls near me they
were very por I assended to the high Country and from an eminance, I had a view of the plains
for a great distance. from this eminance I had a view of a greater number of buffalow than
I had ever Seen before at one time. I must have Seen near 20,000 of those animals feeding on
this plain. I have observed that in the country between the nations which are at war with each
other the greatest numbers of wild animals are to be found- on my return to the river I killed
2 young deer. after Dinner we proceeded down the river about 3 mile to the Camp of Jo. & Rubin
fields and Collins, and encamped on the S W. Side a little below our encampment of 13th Septr.
1804, haveing made 20 Miles only. neither of the hunters killed either a Black tail deer or
an antilope. Jo. Fields & Shields each killed a porcupin and two others of the hunters Killed
Deer, Drewyer did not join us untill 10 P.M. he informed that he Saw some antilopes and Mule
deer but Could kill none of them. Jo. Field informed that he wounded female of the Mule deer
a little below our Camp late in the evening and could not prosue her I directed him to Set
out with 3 others and follow the Deer and get her if possible early in the morning.

[Clark, August 30, 1806] Saturday 30th of August 1806 Capt. Lewis is mending Slowly. we set
out at the usial hour and proceeded on very well a fiew miles Jo Field who was on the Shore
being behind I derected one of the Small Canoes with R. Fields & Shannon to continue on the
point of a Sand bar untill he corns up. I took 3 hunters and walked on the N E Shore with a
view to kill Some fat meet. we had not proceeded far before Saw a large plumb orchd of the
most deelicious plumbs, out of this orchard 2 large Buck Elks ran the hunters killed them.
I Stoped the Canoes and brought in the flesh which was fat and fine. here the party Collected
as many plumbs as they could eate and Several pecks of which they put by &c. after a delay
of nearly 2 hours we again proceeded on downwards passed 3 Small Islands and as we were about
to land at the place appointed to wait for the 2 fields and Shannon, I saw Several men on horseback
which with the help of a Spie glass I found to be Indians on the high hills to the N E we landed
on the S. W. Side and I sent out two men to a village of Barking Squirels to kill Some of those
animals imedeatily after landing about 20 indians was discovered on an eminanc a little above
us on the opposite Side. one of those men I took to be a freinch man from his a blanket Capoe
& a handkerchief around his head. imediately after 80 or 90 Indian men all armed with fusees
& Bows & arrows Came out of a wood on the opposite bank about 1/4 of a mile below us. they
fired of their guns as a Salute we returned the Salute with 2 rounds. we were at a loss to
deturmin of what nation those indians were. from their hostile appearance we were apprehensive
they were Tetons. but from the Country through which they roved we were willing to believe
them eithe the Yanktons, Ponars or Mahars either of which nations are well disposed towards
the white people. I deturmined to find out who they were without running any resque of the
party and indians, and therefore took three french men who could Speak the Mahar Pania and
some Seioux and in a Small canoe I went over to a Sand bar which extended Sufficently near
the opposite Shore to Converse. imedeately after I Set out 3 young men Set out from the opposite
Side and Swam next me on the Sand bar. I derected the men to Speak to them in the Pania and
mahar Languages first neither of which they could understand I then derected the man who could
Speak a fiew words of Seioux to inquire what nation or tribe they belong to they informed me
that they were Tetons and their Chief was Tar-tack-kah-sabbar or the black buffalow This Chief
I knew very well to be the one we had seen with his band at Teton river which band had attempted
to detain us in the fall of 1804 as we assended this river and with whome we wer near comeing
to blows. I told those Indians that they had been deef to our councils and ill treated us as
we assended this river two years past, that they had abused all the whites who had visited
them since. I believed them to be bad people & Should not Suffer them to cross to the Side
on which the party lay, and directed them to return with their band to their Camp, that if
any of them come near our camp we Should kill them certainly. I lef them on the bear and returned
to th party and examined the arms &c. those indians seeing Some Corn in the Canoe requested
Some of it which I refused being deturmined to have nothing to do with those people. Several
others Swam across one of which understood pania, and as our pania interpreter was a very good
one we had it in our power to inform what we wished. I told this man to inform his nation that
we had not forgot their treatment to us as we passed up this river &c. that they had treated
all the white people who had visited them very badly; robed them of their goods, and had wounded
one man whome I had Seen. we viewed them as bad people and no more traders would be Suffered
to come to them, and whenever the white people wished to visit the nations above they would
Come Sufficiently Strong to whip any vilenous party who dare to oppose them and words to the
Same purpote. I also told them that I was informed that a part of all their bands were gorn
to war against the Mandans &c, and that they would be well whiped as the Mandans & Menetarres
& had a plenty of Guns Powder and ball, and we had given them a Cannon to defend themselves.
and derected them to return from the Sand bar and inform their Chiefs what we had Said to them,
and to keep away from the river or we Should kill every one of them &c. &c. those fellows requested
to be allowed to Come across and make Cumerads which we positively refused and I directed them
to return imediately which they did and after they had informed the Chiefs &c. as I Suppose
what we had Said to them, they all Set out on their return to their Camps back of a high hill.
7 of them halted on the top of the hill and blackguarded us, told us to come across and they
would kill us all &c. of which we took no notice. we all this time were extreamly anxious for
the arival of the 2 fields & Shannon whome we had left behind, and were Some what consd. as
to their Safty. to our great joy those men hove in Sight at 6 P.M. Jo. Fields had killed 3
black tail or mule deer. we then Set out, as I wished to See what those Indians on the hill
would act. we Steared across near the opposit Shore, this notion put them Some agitation as
to our intentions, some Set out on the direction towards their Camps others walked about on
the top of the hill and one man walked down the hill to meet us and invited us to land to which
invitation I paid no kind of attention. this man I knew to be the one who had in the fall 1804
accompaned us 2 days and is Said to be the friend to the white people. after we passd. him
he returned on the top of the hill and gave 3 Strokes with the gun he had in his hand this
I am informed is a great oath among the indians. we proceeded on down about 6 miles and encamped
on a large Sand bar in the middle of the river about 2 miles above our encampment on Mud Island
on the 10th Septr. 1804 haveing made 22 miles only to Day. Saw Several Indians on the hills
at a distance this evening viewing us. our encampment of this evening was a very disagreable
one, bleak exposed to the winds, and the Sand wet. I pitched on this Situation to prevent being
disturbed by those Scioux in the Course of the night as well as to avoid the Musquetors-. Killed
9 whistleing squirels.

[Clark, August 31, 1806] Saturday 31st August 1806 all wet and disagreeable this morning. at
half past 11 last night the wind Shifted about to the N. W. and it began to rain with hard
Claps of thunder and lightning the Clouds passd over and the wind Shifted about to the S W.
& blew with great violence So much So that all hands were obliged to hold the Canoes & Perogue
to prevent their being blown off from the Sand bar, however a Suden Squal of wind broke the
cables of the two Small Canoes and with Some dificuelty they were got to Shore Soon after the
2 Canoes in which Sergt. Pryor and the indians go in broke loose with wiser and Willard in
them and were blown quite across the river to the N E. Shore where fortunately they arived
Safe, I Sent Sergt. Jo Ordway with a Small perogue and 6 men to prosue the 2 Canoes and assist
them in effecting a landing, those 2 Canoes being tied together 2 men could not manage them,
the wind Slackened a little and by 2 A.M. Sergt Ordway with willard wiser and the 2 Canoes
returned all Safe, the wind continud to blow and it rained untill day light all wet and disagreeable.
all the party examind their arms and put them in order and we Set out and proceeded on down.
Saw Several Indians on the hills untill we passed the Island of Cedar 9 A. M the morning Cloudy
and wind down the the river at 4 P.M. passed the doome and lowest village of Barking Squirels.
this is also the highest up the river where I observed the fox Squirel in the bottom above
the doome on N. E Side I killed 2 fox Squirels. we Saw no game of any kind to day as the banks
as usial. the Sun Shone with a number of flying Clouds. we encamped on the N. E. Side a little
below our Encampment of the 5th of Septr. on no preserve Island haveing Come 70 Miles.

[Clark, September 1, 1806] Monday 1st of September 1806 Musquitors very troublesom last night,
we set out at the usial hour and had not proceeded on far before the fog became So thick that
we were oblige to come too and delay half an hour for the fog to pass off which it did in Some
measure and we again proceded on R. Jo. Fields and Shannon landed on an Ponceras Island to
try to kill Some deer which was Seen on the beech and the Canoes all passed them at 9 A. M
we passed the enterance of River Quiequur which had the Same appearance it had when we passed
up water rapid and of a milky white Colour about two miles below the Quicurre, 9 Indians ran
down the bank and beckened to us to land, they appeared to be a war party, and I took them
to be Tetons and paid no kind of attention to them further than an enquirey to what tribe they
belonged, they did not give me any answer, I prosume they did not understand the man who Spoke
to them as he Spoke but little of their language. as one Canoe was yet behind we landed in
an open Commanding Situation out of Sight of the indians deturmined to delay untill they Came
up. about 15 minits after we had landed Several guns were fired by the indians, which we expected
was at the three men behind. I calld out 15 men and ran up with a fill deturmination to Cover
them if possible let the number of the indians be what they might. Capt Lewis hobled up on
the bank and formed the remainder of the party in a Situation well calculated to defend themselves
and the Canoes &c. when I had proceeded to the point about 250 yards I discovered the Canoe
about 1 mile above & the indians where we had left them. I then walked on the Sand beech and
the indians came down to meet me I gave them my hand and enquired of them what they were Shooting
at, they informed me that they were Shooting off their guns at an old Keg which we had thrown
out of one of the Canoes and was floating down. those Indians informed me they were Yanktons,
one of the men with me knew one of the Indians to be the brother of young Durion's wife. finding
those indians to be Yanktons I invited them down to the boats to Smoke. when we arived at the
Canoes they all eagerly Saluted the Mandan Chief, and we all Set and Smoked Several pipes.
I told them that we took them to be a party of Tetons and the fireing I expected was at the
three men in the rear Canoe and I had went up with a full intention to kill them all if they
had been tetons & fired on the Canoe as we first expected, but finding them Yanktons and good
men we were glad to See them and take them by the hand as faithfull Children who had opened
their ears to our Councils. one of them Spoke and Said that their nation had opened their years,
& done as we had directed them ever Since we gave the Meadel to their great Chief, and Should
Continue to do as we had told them we enquired if any of their Chiefs had gone down with Mr.
Durion, the answered that their great Chief and many of their brave men had gone down, that
the white people had built a house near the Mahar village where they traded. we tied a piec
of ribon to each mans hair and gave them Some Corn of which they appeared much pleased. The
Mandan Cheif gave a par of elegant Legins to the principal man of the indian party, which is
an indian fashion. the Canoe & 3 men haveing joined us we took our leave of this party telling
them to return to their band and listen to our councils which we had before given to them.
Their band of 80 Lodges were on plum Creek a fiew miles to north. those nine men had five fusees
and 4 bows & quivers of arrows. at 2 P.M. we came too on the upper point of bon homme opposit
the antient fortification and Sent out men to hunt on each Side and on the island. and the
canoes on each Side of the island to receive any meat might be killed I walked on the N. E.
main Shore found the bottom rich and thickly covered with Peavine rich weed grass interwoven
in Such a manner with grape vines that I could not get through and was obliged to assend a
high plains the passing through which I also found tiresom. the grass was nearly as high as
my head and the musquitors excessively bad. at the lower point of the Island all the Canoes
& hunters Came together. Labeech killed an Elk only the flesh of which was brought on in the
perogue. at this island we brought 2 years together or on the 1st of Septr. 1804 we Encamped
at the lower point of this Island. after we all Came together we again proceeded on down to
a large Sand bar imediately opposit to the place were we met the Yanktons in Council at the
Calumet Bluffs and which place we left on the it of Septr. 1804. I observed our old flag Staff
or pole Standing as we left it. the musquitors excessively troublesom untill about 10 P.M.
when the S W wind became Strong and blew the most of them off. we came 52 miles to day only
with a head wind. the Country on either Side are butifull and the plains much richer below
the Queiquer river than above that river.

[Clark, September 2, 1806] Tuesday 2nd of September 1806 Set out at the usial hour passed the
River Jacque at 8 A.M. in the first bottom below on the N E. Side I observed the remains of
a house which had been built since we passed up, this most probably was McClellins tradeing
house with the Yanktons in the Winter of 1804 & 5 the wind was hard a head & continued to increas
which obliged us to lay by nearly all day. as our Store of meat, I took with me 8 men and prosued
a Small Gang of Cows in the plains 3 miles and killed two which was in very good order, had
them butchered and each man took a load as much as he Could Carry and returned to the Canoes,
the wind Still high and water rough we did not Set out untill near Sun Set we proceded to a
Sand bar a Short distance below the place we had Come too on account of the wind and Encamped
on a Sand bar, the woods being the harbor of the Musquetors and the party without the means
of Screaning themselves from those tormenting insects. on the Sand bars the wind which generaly
blows moderately at night blows off those pests and we Sleep Soundly. The wind Continued to
blow hard from the Same point S. E untill 3 P. M I saw in my walk to day Lynn and Slipery Elm.
the plains are tolerably leavel on each Side and very fertile. I saw 4 prarie fowls Common
to the Illinois, those are the highest up which have been Seen, white Oak is very Common also
white ash on the riveens and high bottoms. two turkys killed to day of which the Indians very
much admired being the first which they ever Saw. Capt L. is mending fast- we made only 22
Miles to day.

[Clark, September 3, 1806] Wednesday 3rd of September 1806 Wind Continued to blow very hard
this morning. it Shifted last night to the S. W. and blew the Sand over us in Such a manner
as to render the after part of the night very disagreeable. the wind luled a little and we
Set out and proceeded on with the wind a head passed the enterance of redstone River on the
N E. Side at 11 A M. and at half past 4 P. M we Spied two boats & Several men, our party peyed
their Ores and we Soon landed on the Side of the Boats the men of these boats Saluted us with
their Small arms I landed & was met by a Mr. James Airs from Mackanaw by way of Prarie Dechien
and St. Louis. this Gentleman is of the house of Dickson & Co. of Prarie de Chian who has a
Licence to trade for one year with the Sieoux he has 2 Batteaux loaded with Merchendize for
that purpose. This Gentleman receved both Capt. Lewis and my Self with every mark of friendship
he was himself at the time with a chill of the agu on him which he has had for Several days.
our first enquirey was after the President of our country and then our friends and the State
of the politicks of our country &c. and the State Indian affairs to all of which enquireys
Mr. Aires gave us as Satisfactory information as he had it in his power to have Collected in
the Illinois which was not a great deel. soon after we Landed a violent Storm of Thunder Lightning
and rain from the N W. which was violent with hard Claps of thunder and Sharp Lightning which
continued untill 10 P M after which the wind blew hard. I set up late and partook of the tent
of Mr. Aires which was dry. Mr. Aires unfortunately had his boat Sunk on the 25 of July last
by a violent Storm of Wind and hail by which accident he lost the most of his usefull articles
as he informd. us. this Gentleman informed us of maney Changes & misfortunes which had taken
place in the Illinois amongst others the loss of Mr. Cady Choteaus house and furniture by fire.
for this misfortune of our friend Choteaus I feel my Self very much Concernd &c. he also informed
us that Genl. Wilkinson was the governor of the Louisiana and at St. Louis. 300 of the american
Troops had been Contuned on the Missouri a fiew miles above it's mouth, Some disturbance with
the Spaniards in the Nackatosh Country is the Cause of their being Called down to that Country,
the Spaniards had taken one of the U, States frigates in the Mediteranean, Two British Ships
of the line had fired on an American Ship in the port of New York, and killed the Capts. brother.
2 Indians had been hung in St. Louis for murder and several others in jale. and that Mr. Burr
& Genl. Hambleton fought a Duel, the latter was killed &c. &c. I am happy to find that my worthy
friend Capt L's is so well as to walk about with ease to himself &c., we made 60 Miles to day
the river much crowded with Sand bars, which are very differently Situated from what they were
when we went up.

[Clark, September 4, 1806] Thursday 4th September 1806 The Musquitors became troublesom early
this morning I rose at the usial hour found all the party as wet as rain could make them. as
we were in want of Some tobacco I purposed to Mr. Airs to furnish us with 4 Carrots for which
we would Pay the amount to any Merchant of St. Louis he very readily agreed to furnish us with
tobacco and gave to each man as much as it is necessary for them to use between this and St.
Louis, an instance of Generossity for which every man of the party appears to acknowledge.
Mr. Airs also insisted on our accepting a barrel of flourwe gave to this gentleman what Corn
we Could Spear amounting to about 6 bushels, this Corn was well Calculated for his purpose
as he was about to make his establishment and would have it in his power to hull the Corn &
The flower was very acceptable to us. we have yet a little flour part of what we carried up
from the Illinois as high as Maria's river and buried it there untill our return &c. at 8 A.
M we took our leave and Set out, and proceeded on very well, at 11 A.M. passed the Enterance
of the big Sieoux River which is low, and at meridian we came too at Floyds Bluff below the
Enterance of Floyds river and assended the hill, with Capt Lewis and Several men, found the
grave had been opened by the nativs and left half Covered. we had this grave Completely filled
up, and returned to the Canoes and proceeded on to the Sand bar on which we encamped from the
12th to the 20th of August 1804 near the Mahar Village, here we came to and derected every
wet article put out to dry, all the bedding of the party and Skins being wet. as it was late
in the evening we deturmined to continue all night. had issued to each man of the party a cup
of flour. we See no Species of Game on the river as usial except wild geese and pelicans. I
observed near Sergt Floyds Grave a number of flurishing black walnut trees, these are the first
which I have seen decending the river. a little before night Several Guns were heard below
and in a direction towards the Mahar village which induced us to suspect that Mr. McClellin
who we was informed was on his way up to trade with the Mahars had arived at the Creek below
and that those reports of Guns was Some of his party out hunting. every thing being dry we
derected the Perogue & Canoes to be loaded and in readiness to Set out in the morning early.
at dark the Musquetors became troublesom and continued So all night the party obtained but
little Sleep- we made 36 miles only to daye.

[Clark, September 5, 1806] Friday 5th September 1806 The Musquetors being So excessively tormenting
that the party was all on board and we Set out at day light and proceeded on very well. here
the river is bordered on both sides with timber &c becoms much narrower more Crooked and the
Current more rapid and Crouded with Snags or Sawyers than it is above, and continus So all
day. We did not meet with McClellen as we expected at the Creek. the report of the guns which
was heard must have been the Mahars who most probably have just arrived at their village from
hunting the buffalow. this is a Season they usialy return to their village to Secure their
Crops of Corn Beens punkins &c &c. proceeded on very well passd. the blue Stone bluff at 3
P. M here the river leaves the high lands and meanders through a low rich bottom. Encamped
on the S W Side on a Sand bar at a cut off a little below our Encampment of the 9th of August
1804. haveing made 73 Miles to day- Capt. Lewis still in a Convelesent State. We Saw no game
on the Shores to day worth killig only Such as pelicans Geese ducks, Eagles and Hawks &c.-

[Clark, September 6, 1806] Saturday 6th of September 1806 The Musquetors excessively troublesom
we Set out early at the great Cut off Saw a herd of Elk, we landed and Sent out Several hunters
to kill Some of the Elk, they returnd. without killing any as the Elk was wild and ran off
much fritened. I Sent the two Small Canoes on a head with derections to hunt in two bottoms
below, and after a delay of half an hour proceeded on wind-hard a head at the lower point 7
of Pelecan Island a little above the Petite River de Seeoux we met a tradeing boat of Mr. Ag.
Choteaux of St Louis bound to the River Jacque to trade with the Yanktons, this boat was in
Care of a Mr. Henry Delorn, he had exposed all his loading and Sent out five of his hands to
hunt they Soon arived with an Elk. we purchased a gallon of whiskey of this man and gave to
each man of the party a dram which is the first Spiritious licquor which had been tasted by
any of them Since the 4 of July 1805. Several of the party exchanged leather for linen Shirts
and beaver for Corse hats. Those men Could inform us nothing more than that all the troops
had movd. from the Illinois and that Genl. Wilkinson was prepareing to leave St. Louis. We
advised this trader to treat the Tetons with as much Contempt as possible and Stated to him
where he would be benefited by such treatment &c &c. and at 1 P. M Set out those men gave us
2 Shots from a Swivell they had on the bow of their boat which we returned in our turn. proceeded
on about 3 miles and Came up with two of the hunters, they had not killd. any thing. at 5 miles
we over took the Canoe of the other hunters with Shannon in it floating down, the two fields
being in the woods behind we Came too on a Sand bar on the N. E. Side and delayed all the after
part of the day for the two Fields, Sent out 3 men to hunt in the bottom up the river and observe
if they Saw any Sign of the hunters. the evening proved Cloudy and the wind blew hard two pelicans
were killed to day. we came 30 Miles only to day the 2 fieldses did not join us I think they
are below. The Chief & the Squaws & children are awarey of their journey. Children cry &c.

[Clark, September 7, 1806] Sunday 7th September 1806 as we were doubtfull that the two fieldses
were behind I derected Sergt. Ordway with 4 men to Continue untill Meridian and if those men
did not arive by that hour to proceed on. if we met with them at any Short distance a gun Should
be fired which would be a Signal for him to proceed on. we had proceeded on about 8 miles by
water and the distance through not more than 1 mile when we Saw the fire of those 2 men, I
derected a gun fired as a Signal for Sergt. ordway to proceed on, and took the boys on board.
they had killed nothing & informed me they had been Somewhat almd. at our delay, that the distance
across from the little Sieoux river was about 1 1/2 miles only, the bottoms thick and Grass
very high. we proceded on with a Stiff Breeze ahead (note the evaperation on this portion of
the Missouri has been noticed as we assended this river, and it now appears to be greater than
it was at that time. I am obliged to replenish my ink Stand every day with fresh ink at least
9/10 of which must evaperate.) we proceded on to a bottom on the S W Side a little above the
Soldiers river and Came too and Sent out all the hunters. they killed 3 Elk which was at no
great distance we Sent out the men and had the flesh brought in Cooked and Dined. Sergt. Ordway
Came up & after takeing a Sumptious Dinner we all Set out at 4 P M wind ahead as usial. at
Dusk we came too on the lower part of a Sand bar on the S W side found the Musquetors excessively
tormenting not withstanding a Stiff breeze from the S. E. a little after dark the wind increased
the Musquetors dispersed our Camp of this night is about 2 miles below our Encampment of the
4th of august 1804 ascending we came 44 miles to day only

[Clark, September 8, 1806] Munday 8th September 1806 Set out very early this morning, passed
an old tradeing house on the S W Side a few miles above the Council bluffs, at 11 A M we Came
too at the bluffs and Capt Lewis and myself walked up on the bluffs and around to examine the
Country and Situation more particularly, the Situation appeared to us eaqually as eligable
as when we passed up for an establishment, the hill high and Commanding with a high rich bottom
of great extent below. we proceeded on very well all being anxious to get to the River Platt
to day they ply'd their orers very well, and we arived at our old encampment at White Catfish
Camp 12 miles above the river platt at which place we lay from the 22th to the 26th of July
1804 here we encamped haveing made 78 Miles to day. The Missouri at this place does not appear
to Contain more water than it did 1000 Miles above this, the evaperation must be emence; in
the last 1000 miles this river receives the water 20 rivers and maney Creeks Several of the
Rivers large and the Size of this river or the quantity of water does not appear to increas any-

[Clark, September 9, 1806] Tuesday 9th September 1806 Set out early at 8 A. M passed the enterance
of the great river Platt which is at this time low the water nearly clear the Current turbelant
as usial; the Sand bars which Choked up the Missouri and Confined the river to a narrow Snagey
Chanel are wastd a way and nothing remains but a fiew Small remains of the bear which is covered
with drift wood, below the R. Platt the Current of the Missouri becomes evidently more rapid
than above and the Snags much more noumerous and bad to pass late in the evening we arived
at the Bald pated prarie and encamped imediately opposit our encampment of the 16th and 17th
of July 1804. haveing made 73 miles only to day. The river bottoms are extencive rich and Covered
with tall large timber, and the hollows of the reveins may be Said to be covered with timber
Such as Oake ash Elm and Some walnut & hickory. our party appears extreamly anxious to get
on, and every day appears produce new anxieties in them to get to their Country and friends.
My worthy friend Cap Lewis has entirely recovered his wounds are heeled up and he Can walk
and even run nearly as well as ever he Could. the parts are yet tender &c. &.

The Musquetors are yet troublesom, tho not So much So as they were above the River platt. the
Climate is every day preceptably wormer and air more Sultery than I have experienced for a
long time. the nights are now So worm that I sleep Comfortable under a thin blanket, a fiew
days past 2 was not more than Sufficient

[Clark, September 10, 1806] Wednesday 10th of September 1806 we Set out very early this morning
and proceeded on very well with wind moderately a head at  P M we met a Mr. Alexander La fass
and three french men from St. Louis in a Small perogue on his way to the River Platt to trade
with the Pania Luup or Wolf Indians. this man was extreemly friendly to us he offered us any
thing he had, we axcepted of a bottle of whisky only which we gave to our party, Mr. la frost
informed us that Genl. Wilkinson and all the troops had decended the Mississippi and Mr. Pike
and young Mr. Wilkinson had Set out on an expedition up the Arkansaw river or in that direction
after a delay of half an hour we proceedd on about 3 miles and met a large perogue and 7 Men
from St. Louis bound to the Mahars for the purpose of trade, this perogue was in Charge of
a Mt. La Craw, we made Some fiew enquiries of this man and again proceeded on through a very
bad part of the river Crouded with Snags & Sawyers and incamped on a Sand bar about 4 miles
above the Grand Nemahar. we find the river in this timbered Country narrow and more moveing
Sands and a much greater quantity of Sawyers or Snags than above. Great caution and much attention
is required to Stear Clear of all those dificuelties in this low State of the water. we made
65 Miles to day. we Saw Deer rackoons and turkies on the Shores to day one of the men killed
a racoon which the indians very much admired.

[Clark, September 11, 1806] Thursday 11th Septr. 1806 a heavy Cloud and wind from the N W.
detained us untill after Sunrise at which time we Set out and proceeded on very well, passed
the nemahar which was low and did not appear as wide as when we passed up. Wolf river Scercely
runs at all, at 3 P. M we halted a little above the Nadawa river on the S. Side of the Missouri
to kill Some meat that which we killed a fiew days past being all Spoiled. Sent out 6 hunters
they killed and brought in two Deer only, we proceeded on a fiew miles below the Nadawa Island
and encamped on a Small Isld. near the N. E. Side, haveing Came 40 Miles only to day, river
rapid and in maney places Crouded with Snag's. I observe on the Shores much deer Sign- the
mosquitoes are no longer troublesome on the river, from what cause they are noumerous above
and not So on this part of the river I cannot account. Wolves were howling in different directions
this evening after we had encamped, and the barking of the little prarie wolves resembled those
of our Common Small Dogs that 3/4 of the party believed them to be the dogs of Some boat assending
which was yet below us. the barking of those little wolves I have frequently taken notice of
on this as also the other Side of the Rocky mountains, and their Bark so much resembles or
Sounds to me like our Common Small Cur dogs that I have frequently mistaken them for that Speces
of dog- The papaws nearly ripe

[Clark, September 12, 1806] Friday 12th of September 1806 a thick fog a litile before day which
blew off at day light. a heavy Dew this morning. we Set out at Sunrise the usial hour and proceeded
on very well about 7 miles met 2 perogues from St. Louis one contained the property of Mr.
Choteau bound to the panias on River Platt, the other going up trapping as high as the Mahars.
here we met one of the french men who had accompanied us as high as the Mandans he informed
us that Mr. McClellen was a fiew miles below the wind blew a head Soon after we pased those
perogues, we Saw a man on Shore who informed us that he was one of Mr. McClellens party and
that he was a Short distance below, we took this man on board and proceeded on and Met Mr.
McClellin at the St. Michl. Prarie we came too here we found Mr. Jo. Gravelin the Ricaras enterpreter
whome we had Sent down with a Ricaras Chief in the Spring of 1805 and old Mr. Durion the Sieux
enterpreter, we examined the instructions of those interpreters and found that Gravelin was
ordered to the Ricaras with a Speach from the president of the U. States to that nation and
some presents which had been given the Ricara Cheif who had visited the U. States and unfortunately
died at the City of Washington, he was instructed to teach the Ricaras agriculture & make every
enquirey after Capt Lewis my self and the party Mr. Durion was enstructed to accompany Gravelin
and through his influence pass him with his presents & by the tetons bands of Sieux, and to
provale on Some of the Principal chiefs of those bands not exceeding six to Visit the Seat
of the Government next Spring he was also enstructed to make every enquirey after us. we made
Some Small addition to his instructions by extending the number of Chiefs to 10 or 12 or 3
from each band including the Yanktons &c. Mr. McClellin receved us very politely, and gave
us all the news and occurrences which had taken place in the Illinois within his knowledge
the evening proveing to be wet and Cloudy we Concluded to continue all night, we despatched
the two Canoes a head to hunt with 5 hunters in them

[Clark, September 13, 1806] Saturday 13th September 1806 rose early Mr. McClellen gave each
man a Dram and a little after Sunrise we Set out the wind hard a head from the S E at 8 A M
we landed at the Camp of the 5 hunters whome we had Sent a head, they had killed nothing, the
wind being too high for us to proceed in Safty through the emecity of Snags which was imediately
below we concluded to lye by and Sent on the Small Canoes a Short distance to hunt and kill
Some meat, we Sent out 2 men in the bottom they Soon returned with one turky and informed that
the rushes was so high and thick that it was impossible to kill any deer. I felt my Self very
unwell and derected a little Chocolate which Mr. McClellen gave us, prepared of which I drank
about a pint and found great relief at 11 A.M. we proceeded on about 1 mile and come up with
the hunters who had killed 4 deer, here we delayed untill 5 P. M when the hunters all joined
us and we again proceded on down a fiew miles and encamped on the N E Side of the Missouri
haveing decended 18 Miles only to day. the day disagreeably worm. one man George Shannon left
his horn and pouch with his powder ball and knife and did not think of it untill night. I walked
in the bottom in the thick rushes and the Growth of timber Common to the Illinois Such as cotton
wood, Sycamore, ash mulberry, Elm of different Species, walnut, hickory, horn beem, pappaw
arrow wood willow, prickly ash, &c and Grape vines, pees of 3 species &c &c. Birds most Common
the buzzard Crow the hooting owl and hawks, &c. &c.-

[Clark, September 14, 1806] Sunday 14th Sept. 1806 Set out early and proceeded on very well.
this being the part of the Missouri the Kanzas nation resort to at this Season of the year
for the purpose of robbing the perogues passing up to other nations above, we have every reason
to expect to meet with them, and agreeably to their Common Custom of examining every thing
in the perogues and takeing what they want out of them, it is probable they may wish to take
those liberties with us, which we are deturmined not to allow of and for the Smallest insult
we Shall fire on them. at 2 P.M. a little below the lower of the old Kanzas Village we met
three large boats bound to the Yanktons and Mahars the property of Mr. Lacroy, Mr. Aiten &
Mr. Coutau all from St. Louis, those young men received us with great friendship and pressed
on us Some whisky for our men, Bisquet, Pork and Onions, & part of their Stores, we continued
near 2 hours with those boats, makeing every enquirey into the state of our friends and Country
&c. those men were much affraid of meeting with the Kanzas. we Saw 37 Deer on the banks and
in the river to Day 5 of which we killed those deer were Meager. we proceeded on to an Island
near the middle of the river below our encampment of the 1st of July 1804 and encamped haveing
decended only 53 miles to day. our party received a dram and Sung Songs untill 11 oClock at
night in the greatest harmoney.

[Clark, September 15, 1806] Monday 15th of September 1806 we set out early with a Stiff Breeze
a head saw Several deer Swiming the river soon after we Set out. at 11 A.M. passed the enterance
of the Kanzas river which was very low, about a mile below we landed and Capt Lewis and my
Self assended a hill which appeared to have a Commanding Situation for a fort, the Shore is
bold and rocky imediately at the foot of the hill, from the top of the hill you have a perfect
Command of the river, this hill fronts the Kanzas and has a view of the Missouri a Short distance
above that river. we landed one time only to let the men geather Pappaws or the Custard apple
of which this Country abounds, and the men are very fond of. we discovered a Buck Elk on a
Small Island, and sent the 2 fields and Shannon in pursute of it they Soon Came up with and
killed the Elk, he was large and in fine order we had his flesh Secured and divided. as the
winds were unfabourable the greater part of the day we only decended 49 Miles and encamped
a Short distance Above Hay Cabin Creek we are not tormented by the Musquetors in this lower
portion of the river, as we were above the river plat and as high up as the Rochejhone and
for a fiew miles up that river, and above its enterance into the Missouri. we passd Some of
the most Charming bottom lands to day and the uplands by no means bad, all well timberd. the
weather disagreeably worm and if it was not for the constant winds which blow from the S. and
S E. we Should be almost Suficated Comeing out of a northern Country open and Cool between
the Latd. Of 46° and 49° North in which we had been for nearly two years, rapidly decending
into a woody Country in a wormer Climate between the Latds. 38°& 39° North is probably the
Cause of our experiencing the heat much more Senceable than those who have Continued within
the parralel of Latitude.

[Clark, September 16, 1806] Tuesday 16th September 1806 we Set out early this morning and proceded
on tolerably well the Day proved excessively worm and disagreeable, So much So that the men
rowed but little, at 10 A M we met a large tradeing perogue bound for the Panias we continued
but a Short time with them. at 11 A. M we met young Mr. Bobidoux with a large boat of six ores
and 2 Canoes, the licenes of this young man was to trade with the Panias Mahars and ottoes
reather an extroadanary a license for young a man and without the Seal of the teritory anexed,
as Genl. Wilkensons Signeture was not to this instrement we were Somewhat doubtfull of it.
Mr. Browns Signeture we were not acquainted with without the Teritorial Seal. we made Some
enquireys of this young man and Cautioned him against prosueing the Steps of his brother in
attempting to degrade the American Charector in the eyes of the Indians. we proceeded on to
an Island a little above our encampment of the 16th & 17th of June 1804 haveing Came 52 miles
only to day.

[Clark, September 17, 1806] Wednesday 17th September 1806 We Set out as usial early pass the
Island of the little Osage Village which is considered by the navigater of this river to be
the worst place in it. at this place water of the Missouri is confined between an Island and
the S E main Shore and passes through a narrow chanel for more than 2 miles which is crouded
with Snags in maney places quite across obligeing the navigater to pica, his passage between
those Snags as he can, in maney places the current passing with great velocity against the
banks which cause them to fall &c. at 11 A.M. we met a Captain McClellin late a Capt. of Artily
of the U States Army assending in a large boat. this gentleman an acquaintance of my friend
Capt. Lewis was Somewhat astonished to See us return and appeared rejoiced to meet us. we found
him a man of information and from whome we received a partial account of the political State
of our Country, we were makeing enquires and exchangeing answers &c. untill near mid night.
this Gentleman informed us that we had been long Since given out by the people of the U S Generaly
and almost forgotton, the President of the U. States had yet hopes of us; we received some
civilities of Capt. McClellin, he gave us Some Buisquit, Chocolate Sugar & whiskey, for which
our party were in want and for which we made a return of a barrel of corn & much obliges to
him. Capt. McClellin informed us that he was on reather a speculative expedition to the confines
of New Spain, with the view to entroduce a trade with those people. his plan is to proceede
up this river to the Entcrance of the river platt there to form an establishment from which
to trade partially with the Panas & Ottoes, to form an acquaintance with the Panias and provail
Some of their principal Chiefs to accompany him to Santa Fee where he will appear in a stile
calculated to atract the Spanish government in that quarter and through the influence of a
handsome present he expects to be promited to exchange his merchindize for Silver & gold of
which those people abound. he has a kind of introductory Speach from Govr. Wilkinson to the
Panias and Ottoes and a quantity of presents of his own which he purposes distributing to the
Panias and ELeatans with a view to gain their protection in the execution of his plans, if
the Spanish Governmt. favour his plans, he purposes takeing his merchendize on mules & horses
which Can easily be procured of the panias, to Some point convenient to the Spanish Settlements
within the Louisiana Teritory to which place the inhabitants of New mexico may meet him for
the purpose of trade &c. Capt McClellins plan I think a very good one if strictly prosued &c.

we Sent 5 hunters a head with directions to halt below Grand river and hunt untill we arived
which would be in the morning. This day proved worme. we decended only 30 miles to day and
encamped 4 miles above Grand river on S E. Side.

[Clark, September 18, 1806] Thursday 18th of September 1806 we rose early Capt McClellin wrote
a letter and we took our leave, and proceeded on passed the Grand river at 7 A M. a Short distance
below we came up with our hunters, they had killed nothing. at 10 oClock we Came too and gathered
pottows to eate we have nothing but a fiew Buisquit to eate and are partly compelled to eate
poppows which we find in great quantities on the Shores, the weather we found excessively hot
as usial. the lands fine particularly the bottoms. a charming Oake bottom on the S E Side of
the Missouri above the 2 Charletons rivers we find the Current of this part of the Missouri
much more jentle than it was as we assended, the water is now low and where it is much confin'd
it is rapid. we saw very little appearance of deer, Saw one bear at a distance and 3 turkeys
only to day. our party entirely out of provisions Subsisting on poppaws. we divide the buiskit
which amounted to nearly one buisket per man, this in addition to the poppaws is to last is
down to the Settlement's which is 150 miles the party appear perfectly contented and tell us
that they can live very well on the pappaws. we made 52 miles to day only. one of our party
J. Potts complains very much of one of his eyes which is burnt by the Sun from exposeing his
face without a cover from the Sun. Shannon also complains of his face & eyes &c. Encamped on
an Island nearly opposit to the enterance of Mine river.

[Clark, September 19, 1806] Friday 19th of Sept. 1806 Set out this morning a little after day
& proceeded on very well the men ply their oares & we decended with great velocity, only Came
too once for the purpose of gathering pappows, our anxiety as also the wish of the party to
proceed on as expeditiously as possible to the Illinois enduce us to continue on without halting
to hunt. we Calculate on ariveing at the first Settlements on tomorrow evening which is 140
miles, and objecet of our party is to divide the distance into two days, this day to the Osarge
River, and tomorrow to the Charriton a Small french Village- we arived at the Enterance of
Osage River at dark and encamped on the Spot we had encamped on the 1st & 2d of June 1804 haveing
Came 72 miles. a very singular disorder is takeing place amongst our party that of the Sore
eyes. three of the party have their eyes inflamed and Sweled in Such a manner as to render
them extreamly painfull, particularly when exposed to the light, the eye ball is much inflaimed
and the lid appears burnt with the Sun, the cause of this complaint of the eye I can't account
for. from it's Sudden appearance I am willing to believe it may be owing to the reflection
of the Sun on the water

[Clark, September 20, 1806] Saturday 20th Septr. 1806 as three of the party was unabled to
row from the State of their eyes we found it necessary to leave one of our Crafts and divide
the men into the other Canoes, we left the two Canoes lashed together which I had made high
up the River Rochejhone, those Canoes we Set a drift and a little after day light we Set out
and proceeded on very well. The Osage river very low and discharges but a Small quantity of
water at this time for so large a river. at meridian we passed the enterance of the Gasconnade
river below which we met a perogue with 5 french men bound to the Osarge Gd. village. the party
being extreemly anxious to get down ply their ores very well, we Saw Some cows on the bank
which was a joyfull Sight to the party and Caused a Shout to be raised for joy at  P M we Came
in Sight of the little french Village called Charriton the men raised a Shout and Sprung upon
their ores and we soon landed opposit to the Village. our party requested to be permited to
fire off their Guns which was alowed & they discharged 3 rounds with a harty Cheer, which was
returned from five tradeing boats which lay opposit the village. we landed and were very politely
received by two young Scotch men from Canada one in the employ of Mr. Aird a Mr.  and the other
Mr. Reed, two other boats the property of Mr. Lacomb & Mr.  all of those boats were bound to
the Osage and Ottoes. those two young Scotch gentlemen furnished us with Beef flower and Some
pork for our men, and gave us a very agreeable supper. as it was like to rain we accepted of
a bed in one of their tents. we purchased of a Citizen two gallons of Whiskey for our party
for which we were obliged to give Eight dollars in Cash, an imposition on the part of the Citizen.
every person, both French and americans Seem to express great pleasure at our return, and acknowledged
them selves much astonished in Seeing us return. they informed us that we were Supposed to
have been lost long Since, and were entirely given out by every person &c.

Those boats are from Canada in the batteaux form and wide in perpotion to their length. their
length about 30 feet and the width 8 feet & pointed bow & Stern, flat bottom and rowing Six
ores only the Skeneckeity form. those Bottoms are prepared for the navigation of this river,
I beleive them to be the best Calculated for the navigation of this river of any which I have
Seen. they are wide and flat not Subject to the dangers of the roleing Sands, which larger
boats are on this river. the American inhabitants express great disgust for the govermt of
this Teritory. from what I can lern it arises from a disapmt. of getting all the Spanish Grants
Confirmed-. Came 68 ms. to day.

[Clark, September 21, 1806] Sunday 21st Septr. 1806 rose early this morning Colected our men
Several of them had axcepted of the invitation of the Citizens and visited their families.
at half after 7 A. M we Set out. passed 12 canoes of Kickapoos assending on a hunting expedition.
Saw Several persons also Stock of different kind on the bank which reviv'd the party very much.
at 3 P M we met two large boats assending. at 4 P M we arived in Sight of St. Charles, the
party rejoiced at the Sight of this hospital village plyed thear ores with great dexterity
and we Soon arived opposit the Town, this day being Sunday we observed a number of Gentlemen
and ladies walking on the bank, we Saluted the Village by three rounds from our blunderbuts
and the Small arms of the party, and landed near the lower part of the town. we were met by
great numbers of the inhabitants, we found them excessively polite. we received invitations
from Several of those Gentlemen a Mr. Proulx, Taboe, Decett, Tice Dejonah & Quarie and several
who were pressing on us to go to their houses, we could only visit Mr. Proulx and Mr. Deucett
in the course of the evening. Mr. Querie under took to Supply our party with provisions &c.
the inhabitants of this village appear much delighted at our return and seem to vie with each
other in their politeness to us all. we Came only 48 miles today. the banks of the river thinly
Settled &c.

