"

Ser Federigo listened with tears of love and pity in his eyes, then sadly answered, "Alas,
dear lady, how gladly would I have granted what you ask had you but expressed this wish one
short hour ago. But, thinking I could best do honor to my guests by sacrificing what was most
dear to me, I slew my gallant falcon to provide you with a fitting repast."

Slowly the lady turned aside her head, grieved to think that this noble knight had slain his
cherished falcon for her sake, and yet glad of this proof of his devotion. But her mind was
now filled with alarm, for she must return empty-handed to her sick child; so, taking a hasty
farewell of their host, the ladies sadly made their way homewards.

The mother's fears were only too well founded. Three days later Ser Federigo heard the tolling
of the passing-bell from the chapel on the hill, and, as he breathed a prayer, "Alas! her child
is dead," he murmured.

But happier times were in store for the bereaved lady and her faithful lover. Touched by his
devotion Monna Giovanna plighted her troth with Ser Federigo, and by Christmas time the little
farm was deserted, and a wedding-feast was held in the grand villa on the hill. Once more Monna
Giovanna sat upon the rustic chair which had been brought from the cottage, but something had
been added. On the chair-back was perched a wooden image of the gallant falcon, and round the
cage Ser Federigo had caused this inscription to be carved: "All things come round to him who
will but wait."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TOMMY TIPTOP SERIES

By RAYMOND STONE

A new series for outdoor boys. Every lad who likes Baseball, Football and other outdoor sports
is going to be a friend of Tommy Tiptop--that is, if he reads these stories, and he would if
he knew what was in store for him.

Never was there a boy like Tommy Tiptop for doing things. Tommy could not be still a minute,
and although only ten years of age he organized a baseball club, a football eleven, went into
a winter camp, and did other things too numerous to mention.

TOMMY TIPTOP and HIS BASEBALL NINE Or, The Boys of Riverdale and Their Good Times

TOMMY TIPTOP and HIS FOOTBALL ELEVEN Or, A Great Victory and How It Was Won

TOMMY TIPTOP and HIS WINTER SPORTS Or, Jolly Times on the Ice and in Camp

Quarto size, 128 pages, 8 full-page illustrations, beautiful colored picture on the cover.
Price 40 cents per copy.

For sale at all book stores or sent postpaid upon receipt of price by the publishers.

GRAHAM & MATLACK 251 West 19th Street         New York

       *       *       *       *       *

UP AND DOING SERIES

By FREDERICK GORDEN

The doings of real, live boys between the ages of 9 and 12.

THE YOUNG CRUSOES OF PINE ISLAND Or, The Wreck of the Puff

Here is a story full of thrills about three boys that lived on the edge of a large lake. They
have plenty of fun fishing, swimming and sailing, etc., and one day while sailing their boat,
"The Puff," she capsized and drifted to an island in the lake where they play Robinson Crusoe
until rescued.

SAMMY BROWN'S TREASURE HUNT Or, Lost in the Mountains

The great desire of Sammy Brown and his chums to find a treasure leads them into many adventures,
gets them lost and finally discloses the treasure--but not the one for which they were searching.

Adventure-loving boys should not miss this great story.

BOB BOUNCER'S SCHOOLDAYS Or, The Doings of a Real, Live, Everyday Boy

Primary and Grammar School life affords boys plenty of fun, and Bob Bouncer's schooldays are
"brimfull" of just such fun, adventures and some rivalries.

Bob Bouncer was a boy with red blood in his veins, and you should read this story of his doings.

Quarto, cloth, 128 pages.

These stories have been told over the telephone nightly to thousands of children.