    "Le peuple nomma une commission pour corriger les statuts de la
    république, et réprimer par les lois l'insolence des nobles. Une
    ordonnance fameuse, connue sous le nom d'Ordinamenti della Giustizia,
    fut l'ouvrage de cette commission. Pour le maintien de la liberté et de
    la justice, elle sanctionna la jurisprudence la plus tyrannique, et la
    plus injuste. Trente-sept familles, les plus nobles et les plus
    respectables de Florence, furent exclus à jamais du priorat, sans qu'il
    leur fùt permis de recouvrer les droits de cité, en se {245} faisant
    matriculer dans quelque corps de métier, ou en exerçant quelque
    profession.... Les membres de ces trente-sept familles furent désignés,
    même dans les lois, par les noms de grands et de magnats; et pour la
    première fois, on vit un titre d'honneur devenir nonseulement un
    fardeau onéreux, mais une punition."--Sismondi, Histoire des
    Républiques Italiennes, tom. iv. pp. 63-4.: Paris, 1826.

    "The people, now sure of their triumph, relaxed the Ordinances of
    Justice, and, to make some distinction in favour of merit or innocence,
    effaced certain families from the list of the nobility. Five hundred
    and thirty persons were thus elevated, as we may call it, to the rank
    of commoners. As it was beyond the competence of the Republic of
    Florence to change a man's ancestors, this nominal alteration left all
    the real advantage of birth as they were, and was undoubtedly an
    enhancenent of dignity, though, in appearance, a very singular one.
    Conversely, several unpopular commoners were ennobled in order to
    disfranchise them. Nothing was more usual, in subsequent times, than
    such an arbitrary change of rank, as a penalty or a benefit. (Messer
    Antonio de Baldinaccio degli Adimari, tutto che fosse de più grandi e
    nobili, per grazia era misso tra 'l popolo.--Villani, xii. c. 108.)
    Those nobles who were rendered plebeian by favour, were obliged to
    change their name and arms."--Hallam's Middle Ages, vol. i. p.
    435-6.: London, 1834.

    "In the history of Florentine families, a singular feature presents
    itself; by a practice peculiar to Italy, nay, it is believed to
    Florence, families, under certain circumstances, were compelled to
    change their arms and their surnames, the origin of which was as
    follows. After having long suffered the insolent factions of the great
    families to convulse the state, the middle classes, headed indeed by
    one of the nobles, by a determined movement, obtained the mastery. To
    organize their newly-acquired power, they instituted an office, the
    chief at Florence during the republican era, that of Gonfalonier of
    Justice; they formed a species of national guard from the whole body of
    the citizens, who were again subdivided into companies, under the
    command of other officers of inferior dignity, also styled Gonfaloniers
    (Bannarets). As soon as any noble committed violence within the walls
    of the city, likely to compromise the public peace, or disturb the
    quiet of the state, the great bell at the Palazzo Vecchio raised its
    alarum, the population flew to arms, and hastened to the spot, where
    the Gonfalonier of Justice speedily found himself in a position, not
    merely to put an end to the disturbance, but even to lay siege to the
    stout massive fortresses which formed the city residences of the
    insolent and refractory offenders to which they then withdrew. But the
    reforming party did not stop there; by the new constitution, which was
    then introduced, the ancient noble families, termed by cotemporary
    historians 'i grandi,' and explained to include those only which had
    ever been illustrated by the order of knighthood, were all placed under
    a severe system of civil restrictions, and their names were entered
    upon a roll called the Ordinances of Justice; the immediate effect was
    that, losing all political rights, they were placed in a most
    disadvantageous position before the law.

    "By a remarkable species of democratic liberality, a man or a family
    might be emancipated from this position and rendered fit for office,
    born again as it were into a new political life, by renouncing their
    connections (consorteria) and changing their arms and surnames. They
    were then said to be made plebeian or popular (fatti di popolo).
    Niebuhr has noticed the analogy of such voluntary resignation of
    nobility to the 'transitio ad plebem' of the Romans.

    "This practice of changing arms and surnames originated from the
    Ordinances of Justice promulgated about that time, which expressly
    requires this as a condition to the enjoyment by any of the old
    families of popular rights. It gave rise to great varieties of surnames
    and armorial bearings in different branches of the same house. But it
    has nevertheless been noted that in all these mutations it was still
    the endeavour of the parties to retain as much as possible of the
    ancient ensigns and appellations, so that traces of descent and
    connexion might not in the progress of years be altogether obliterated.
    Thus the Cavalcanti took the name of Cavallereschi, the Tornaquinci
    that of Tornabuoni. Sometimes they obtained the object by a play upon
    the name itself thus; at other times by making a patronymic of the
    Christian name of the first or some other favourite ancestor; thus a
    branch of the Bardi assumed the name of Gualterotti, and a branch of
    the Pazzi that of Accorri. Sometimes they took their new name from a
    place or circumstance calculated to preserve the memory of their
    origin; thus the Agolanti designated themselves Fiesolani, the Bostichi
    from the antiquity of their stock, Buonantichi. In mutation of arms a
    similar object was borne in mind. Thus the Buondelmonti simply added to
    their ancient bearings a mountain az. and a cross gu. The Baccelli, who
    were a branch of the Mazzinghi, replaced the three perpendicular clubs,
    the ancient ensigns of the family, by two placed in the form of a
    cross.

    "As the object of these provisions was to discriminate for the future
    those of the ancient families who had acceded to the principles of the
    popular institutions from their more haughty kindred, who remained true
    to the defence of their feudal and aristocratical pretensions, the
    change either of arms or surname was not required if the whole family
    became converts to the new doctrines; for then there was no need of
    discrimination, and the law was not framed out of any dislike merely to
    particular ensigns, but only to the principles and opinions which they
    had up to a certain time been understood to represent."--Mazzinghi.

The identity of the Volpes and Bigliottis is attested by ancient sepulchral monuments of the
family in Santo Spirito at Florence. To mark the ancient origin, they retained or assumed the
fox (volpe) as their arms. Borghini, in his Discorsi (Florence, 1584-5), mentions the family
as an instance of the name giving rise to the arms, and mentions Sandro Biglotti, 1339, as
the first who assumed the fox as his ensigns. The distinction and influence enjoyed at Florence
by the family is indicated by its having contributed ten Gonfaloniers of Justice to the republic;
an office corresponding in rank with those of Doge of Venice {246} and Doge of Genoa. Details
of several branches of the family will be found in Saggi Istorici D'Antichità Toscane di Lorenzo
Cantini: Firenze, 1798.

Among the junta of twenty noblemen of Venice, chosen in 1355, on the discovery of the conspiracy
of Marino Faliero, Doge of Venice, we find the name of "Ser Niccolò Volpe":--

    "Questi [que' del Consiglio de' Dieci] elessero tra loro una Giunta,
    nella notte, ridotti quasi sul romper del giorno, di venti nobili di
    Vinezia de' migliori, de' piu savii, e de' piu antichi, per consultare,
    non pero che mettessero pallottola."--Vitæ Ducum Venetorum,--though
    the title is in Latin, the work is in Italian,--published in Muratori's
    Rerum Italicarum Scriptores, tom. xii. p. 634.

The following particulars are extracted from the Biographie Universelle:--

    "Ivo. Biliotti, d'une famille patricienne de Florence (qui avoit fourni
    dix Gonfaloniers de Justice à cette république, et placé ses armes sur
    les monnaies de l'état), fut un des derniers défenseurs de la liberté
    de sa patrie, et un des meilleurs capitaines de son temps. En 1529, il
    defendit le fort de Spello, en Toscane, contre les troupes liguées du
    pape et de l'Empereur Charles Quint. Il obligea le prince d'Orange, qui
    les commandait, à se retirer, et se distingua aussi au siége de
    Florence. Il passa au service de Francois I^{er}, roi de France, avec
    de Gondi et Pierre de Strozzi, ses parents, et fut tué au siége de
    Dieppe. Une partie de la famille Biliotti, proscrite par les Médicis,
    se refugia à Avignon et dans le comtat Venaissin, vers la fin du 15^e
    siècle. Le 29 juillet, 1794, le chef de cette maison, Joseph Joachim,
    Marquis de Biliotti, chevalier de St. Louis, âgé de soixante-dix ans,
    aussi distingué par ses vertus que par sa naissance, fut la dernière
    victime du tribunal révolutionnaire d'Orange, qui fut suspendu le
    lendemain de sa mort."

The only particulars of Iovanni Volpe furnished by the Gwerclas MSS. are given in the annexed
pedigree. The marriage of his daughter Frances with my ancestor, Richard Hughes of Gwerclas,
arose from the latter (before his accession to the family estates and representation, consequent
on the decease without issue--February 6, 18 James I., 1620-1--of his elder brother, Humffrey
Hughes, Esq., of Gwerclas, Baron of Cymmer-yn-Edeirnion, High Sheriff of Merionethshire in
1618) having been secretary of the princely Cliffords, Earls of Cumberland, to whom Iovanni
Volpe had been physician. There can be little doubt that Iovanni was descended from a branch
of the Italian Volpes which had retained the ancient name; a supposition confirmed by the tradition
of my family, and by the fact of the fox being assigned to his daughter Frances as her arms,
in an emblazoned genealogy of the house of Gwerclas compiled in 1650 by the most accurate and
eminent of Welsh antiquaries, Robert Vaughan of Hengwrt, Esq.

I may add, that among the Gwerclas pictures are portraits of Richard Hughes and Frances; the
latter exhibiting in features an complexion the unmistakeable impress of Italian lineage.

WILLIAM HUGHES.

Twyford, Hants, March 18. 1851.

                    WILLIAM WOLPE.   ===
                    Arms, Vert a fox  |
                    courant, proper.  |
                                      |
                       +--------------+
                       |
  JOHN WOLPE, aliter VULP, "An Italian === ---- ----, "Descended
  doctor; was ffamous in Queene Eliza-         |  of the ffamily of the
  beth's tyme, went with George Erle           |  Monntaynes in Yorkshire,
  of Cumberland most of his sea                |  who keepe the name this
  voyages, and was with him at the             |  daye [1622.]."
  takeing of Portorico, in the Indies."        |
                                               |
                                +--------------+
                                |
  RICHARD EVERS (1st) === FRANCES, "Sole  === (2nd) RICHARD HUGHES, Esq.,
  "Of the ffamily of   |  daughter." Died  |  of Gwerclas, co. Merioneth,
  Evers of Coventry."  |  29 June, 1636,   |  Baron of Cymmer-yn-Edeirnion.
                       |  circa æt. 50.    |  Married 2 Nov. 1601. Died 21
                       |                   |  March, 1641, circa æt. 80.
                       |                   |
          +------------+                   +----------------+
          |                                                 |
  MARTHA, "Only daughter." === RICHARD LLOYD    HUMFFREY HUGHES, Esq. of
  Born 25 January, 1599.    |  of Vaerdre [in   Gwerclas, Baron of Cymmer-
  Married, 27 June, 1616.  /|\ Edeirnion, co.   yn-Edeirnion, son and heir.
                               Merioneth].      High Sheriff of Merioneth-
  "Had issue sonnes and daughters, now [19      shire in 1670. Born 14
  April, 1622] liveing."                        Aug. 1605. Buried at
                                                Llangar in Edeirnion,
                                                4 May, 1682.  |
                                                             /|\

{247}

Giovanni Volpe or Master Wolfe (Vol. iii., p. 188.).--This person was certainly never "physician
to Queen Elizabeth," but he may have received from her Majesty the appointment of apothecary,
as he did from her successor. On New-Year's day, 1605-6, John Vulp presented to the king "a
box of Indian plums," receiving in return 7 oz. di. di. qr. of gilt plate; he is then named
the last of five apothecaries who paid their votive offerings to royalty. (Nichols's Progresses,
&c. of King James I., vol. i. p. 597.) In 1617 he had risen to be the king's principal apothecary,
and by the name of John Wolfgango Rumlero received "for his fee by the year 40 li.," as appears
by the abstract of his Majesty's revenue attached to the pamphlet entitled Time brought to
Light by Time. From the name here given him, it may be conjectured that he was rather from
Germany than Italy. However, he also went by the plain English name of Master Wolfe.

He is thus alluded to in the epilogue to Ben Jonson's Masque of the Metamorphosed Gipsies,
when it was performed at Windsor in September, 1621:--

 "But, lest it prove like wonder to the sight
  To see a gipsy, as an Æthiop, white,
  Know that what dy'd our faces was an ointment
  Made and laid on by Master Woolfe's appointment,
  The Count Lycanthropos."

As he was a man of such prominence in his profession, probably many other notices of him might
be collected if duly "noted" as they occur.

J. G. N.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Sir Andrew Chadwick (Vol. iii., p. 141.).--It was stated in evidence, in a trial at Lancaster
assizes, Hilary Term, 1769, between Law and Taylor, plaintiffs, and Duckworth and Wilkinson,
defendants, respecting the heirs at law of Sir Andrew Chadwick, and their claim to his estates,
that "Ellis Chadwick married in Ireland a lady of fashion, who had some connexion with her
late Majesty Queen Anne, and had issue by her the late Sir Andrew Chadwick. Ellis, the father,
dying in his son's infancy, about the year 1693, his widow brought her son Andrew over to England,
where he was very early introduced at court, and being contemporary with the young Duke of
Gloucester, became a great favourite with him, was knighted, and had divers preferments."--From
the Attorney-General's MS. Brief. The latter part of this statement does not appear to confirm
the supposition recorded by MR. J.N. CHADWICK.

F. R. R.

Manuscript of Bede (Vol. iii., p. 180.).--The volume in question is entered in the Catalogue
of Thoresby's MSS., No. 10. in the Ducatus Leodiensis, p. 72. 2d ed. 1816. The greater part
of these MSS. came into the hands of Ralph Thoresby, Jun., and, together with the coins, were
disposed of by public auction in March, 1764, by Whiston Bristow, sworn broker. The MSS. were
sold on the third day, but the volume containing Bede does not appear among them. The opinion
formed by J. M. of the age of this MS. is certainly erroneous, and being on paper it is more
probably of the fifteenth than the twelfth century. The period of William Dadyngton, Vicar
of Barton, might decide this.

[mu].

MS. of Bede (Vol. iii., p. 180.).--Your correspondent will find a description of this MS. in
the catalogue of Thoresby's Museum, at the end of his Ducatus Leodiensis, edit. 1715, fol.,
p. 515. He will also, in Thoresby's Correspondence, 1832, 8vo. vol. ii. p. 39., see a letter
from Dr. John Smith, the editor of Bede's History, respecting this manuscript, the original
of which letter is in my possession.

After many dismemberments, what remained of Thoresby's Museum, including his manuscripts, was
sold in London in March, 1764, by auction. Mr. Lilly, the bookseller of Pall Mall, had a priced
catalogue of this sale; and your correspondent, if anxious to trace the pedigree of his MS.
further, can, I have no doubt, on application, get a reference made to that catalogue.

I take the present opportunity of mentioning that, as Mr. Upcott's sale, when I became the
purchaser of the Thoresby papers, including his MS. diaries, his Album, and upwards of 1000
letters to him, a very small number of which were printed in the collection, in two volumes,
edited by Mr. Hunter, one of the diaries, from May 14, 1712, to September 26, 1714, which was
sold with the lot, was after the sale found to be missing. It subsequently came into the hands
of a London dealer, by whom it was sold to a Yorkshire gentleman, as I understand, but whose
name I have not yet been able to trace. Should this meet his eye, I will venture to appeal
to his sense of justice, entirely ignorant as I am sure he has been of the "pedigree," to use
your correspondent's expression, of his MS., whether he will allow it to be longer separated
from the series to which it belongs, and which is incomplete without it. I need hardly say,
I can only expect to receive it on the terms of repaying the price paid for it, and which I
should embrace with many thanks.

JAS. CROSSLEY.

Manchester, March 8. 1851.

    [The following advertisement of the missing MS. appeared in the
    Catalogue (No. 33., 1848) of Mr. C. J. Hamilton, then of Castle Court,
    Birchin Lane, now residing in the City Road, London:--"Thoresby's
    (Ralph, antiquary of Leeds), Diary from May 14, 1712, to September
    23, 1714, an original unpublished MS., containing much highly
    interesting literary information, with autograph on fly-leaf, thick
    8vo., 436 {248} pages, vellum with tuck, closely written, price 2l.
    12s. 6d." The purchaser was Mr. Wallbran, Fallcroft, Ripon, Yorkshire.]

Closing of Rooms on account of Death (Vol. iii., p. 142.).--I am acquainted with a remarkable
instance of this custom. A respectable farmer who resided in a parish in Bedfordshire, adjoining
that in which I am writing, died in 1844; leaving to his daughter the fine old manor-house
in which he had lived for many years, and in which he died, together with about 300 acres of
land. The lady, with her husband, was then residing in a neighbouring village, where the latter
rented a farm, which he has since given up, retaining the house; but she positively refused
to remove to the manor-house, "because her father had died in it;" and as she still persists
in her refusal, it is unoccupied to this day. For Mr. ---- is not even permitted to let it,
except a part, now tenanted by a valued friend of mine, which for many years has been let separately.
The rooms and the furniture in them remain exactly as in the lifetime of the late occupant.
The lady's husband, who farms the land attached to the house, is put to great inconvenience
by living at a distance from it, but nothing will induce her to alter her determination. The
facts I have related are notorious in the neighbourhood.

ARUN.

Enigmatical Epitaph on Rev. John Mawer (Vol. iii., p. 184.).--On reading to a lady the article
on this subject in a late Number, she immediately recollected, that about thirty years ago
she had a governess of that name, the daughter of a clergyman in Nottinghamshire, who often
mentioned that they were descended from the Royal Family of Wales, and that she had a brother
who was named Arthur Lewellyn Tudor Kaye Mawer.

This anecdote will perhaps be of use in directing attention to Cambrian pedigrees, and leading
it from Dr. Whitaker's "Old King Cole" to "the noble race of Shenkin."

J. T. A.

Haybands in Seals (Vol. iii., p. 186.).--The practice mentioned by MR. LOWER, of inserting
haybands, or rather slips of rush, in the seals of feoffments, was common in all counties;
and it certainly was not confined to the humbler classes. Hundreds of feoffments of the fifteenth
century, and earlier, have passed through my hands with the seals as described by MR. LOWER,
relating to various counties, and executed by parties of all degrees. In these instances, a
little blade of rush is generally neatly inserted round the inner rim of the impression, and
evidently must have been so done while the wax was soft. In some instances, these blades of
rush overlay the whole seal; in others, a slip of it is merely tied round the label. In delivering
seisin under a feoffment, the grantor, or his attorney, handed over to the grantee, together
with the deed, a piece of turf, or a twig, or something plucked from the soil, in token of
his giving full and complete possession. I have generally supposed that these strips of rush
were the tokens of possession so handed over, as part and parcel of the soil, by the grantor;
and that they were attached to the seal, as it were, "in perpetuam rei memoriam." In default
of better information, I venture to suggest this explanation, but will not presume to vouch
for its correctness.

L. B. L.

Notes on Newspapers (vol. iii., p. 164.).--John Houghton, the editor of the periodical noticed
by your correspondent, A Collection for the Improvement of Husbandry and Trade, was one of
those meritorious men who well deserve commemoration, though his name is not to be found in
any biography that I am acquainted with. He was an apothecary, and became a dealer in tea,
coffee, and chocolate. He was in politics a loyalist, or Tory, and was admitted a member of
the Royal Society in 1679-80. He began to publish his Letters on Husbandry and Trade in 1681.
No. 1. is dated Thursday, September 8, 1681. The first collection ended June, 1684, and consists
of two vols. 4to. In November, 1691, Houghton determined to resume his old plan of publishing
papers on Husbandry and Trade. His abilities and industry were warmly recommended by several
members of the Royal Society: Sir Peter Pott, John Evelyn, Dr. Hugh Chamberlain, and others.
The recommendation is prefixed to the first number of this second collection. The first paper
is dated Wednesday, March 30, 1692; and the second Wednesday, April 6, 1692; they were continued
every succeeding Wednesday. The concluding paper was published September 24, 1703. There were
583 numbers, in 19 vols., of the folio papers. The last number contains an "Epitome" of the
19 vols. and a "Farewell," which gives his reason for discontinuing the paper, and thanks to
his assistants, "wishing that knowledge may cover the earth as the water covers the sea." A
selection from these papers was published in 1727, by Richard Bradley, F.R.S., in three vols.
8vo., to which a fourth was afterwards added in 1728, 8vo.

Houghton also published An Account of the Acres and Houses, with the proportional Tax, &c.
of each County in England and Wales. Lond. 1693, on a broadside. Also, Book of Funds, 1694,
4to. Alteration of the Coin, with a feasible Method to it 1695. 4to.

JAMES CROSSLEY.

Duncan Campbell (Vol. i., p. 186.).--There seems to be no doubt that Duncan Campbell, whose
life was written by Defoe, was a real person. See Tatler, vol. i. p. 156. edit. 1786, 8vo.;
Spectator, No. 560.; Wilson's Life of Defoe, vol. iii. p. 476. His house was "in Buckingham
Court, over against Old Man's Coffee House, at Charing {249} Cross," and at another period
of his life in Monmouth Court. He is reported to have amassed a large fortune from practising
upon the credulity of the public, and was the grand answerer of "Queries" in his day. Defoe's
entertaining pieces relating to him are evidently novels founded upon fact.

JAS. CROSSLEY.

Christmas Day (Vol. iii., p. 167.).--Julian I. has the credit of transferring the celebration
of Christ's birth from Jan. 6th to Dec. 25th; but Mosheim considers the report very questionable
(vol. i. p. 370. Soames's edit.). Bingham, in his Christian Antiq., devotes ch. iv. of book
xx. to the consideration of this festival, and that of the Epiphany; but does not notice the
claim set up on behalf of Julian I.; neither Neander (vol. iii. pp. 415-22. Eng. Translation).
It would appear that the Eastern Church kept Christmas on Jan. 6th, and the Western Church
on Dec. 25th: at length, about the time of Chrysostom, the Oriental Christians sided with the
Western Church. Bingham also cites Augustine as saying that it was the current tradition that
Christ was born on the eighth of the kalends of January, that is, on the 25th of December.
Had, therefore, Julian I. dogmatically fixed the 25th of December as the birthday of our Saviour,
it is scarcely possible to suppose that Augustine, who flourished about half a century later,
would allege current tradition as the reason, without any notice of Julian.

N. E. R. (A Subscriber).

    [See Tillemont's Histoire Ecclésiastique, tome i., note 4., for a
    full discussion of this question. Also Mosheim's De Rebus
    Christianorum ante Constantinum Commentarii, sæculum primum, sec. 1.;
    and Butler's Lives of the Saints, article Christmas-Day.]

Christmas-day (Vol. iii, p. 167.).--St. John of Chrysostom, archbishop of Nice (died A.D. 407),
in an epistle upon this subject, relates (tom. v. p. 45. edit. Montf. Paris, 1718-34) that,
at the instance of St. Cyril of Jerusalem (died A.D. 385), St. Julius (Pope A.D. 337-352) procured
a strict inquiry to be made into the day of our Saviour's nativity, which being found to be
the 25th Dec., that day was thenceforth set apart for the celebration of this "Festorum omnium
metropolis," as he styles it. St. Tilesphorus (Pope A.D. 128-139), however, is supposed by
the generality of ancient authorities to be the first who appointed the 25th Dec. for that
purpose. The point is involved in much uncertainty, but your correspondent may find all the
information he seeks in Baronii Apparatus ad Annales Ecclesiasticos, fol., Lucæ, 1740, pp.
475. et seq.; and in a curious tract, entitled The Feast of Feasts; or, the Celebration of
the Sacred Nativity of our Blessed Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ; grounded upon the Scriptures,
and confirmed by the Practice of the Christian Church in all Ages. 4to. Oxf. 1644. This tract
is in the British Museum. J. C. makes a tremendous leap in chronology when he asks "Was it
not either Julius I. or II.?" Why the one died exactly 1161 years after the other!

COWGILL.

Christmas Day (Vol. iii., p. 167.).--In a note to one of Bishop Pearson's sermons (Opera Minora,
ed. Churton) occurs the following passage from St. Chrysostom:--

    "[Greek: Para tôn akribôs tauta eidotôn, kai tên polin ekeinên] (sc.
    Romam) [Greek: oikountôn, PAREILÊPHAMEN TÊN HÊMERAN. Hoi gar ekei
    diatribontes ANÔTHEN kai ek PALAIAS PARADOSEÔS tautên epitelountes],"
    &c.--Homil. Di. Nat. ii. 354.

The remainder of the quotation my note does not supply, but it may be easily found by the reference.
The day, therefore, seems fixed by "tradition," and received both by the Eastern and Western
Church, and not on any dogmatical decision of the popes.

R. W. F.

MS. Sermons by Jeremy Taylor (Vol. i., p. 125.).--Coleridge's assertion, "that there is now
extant in MS. a folio of unprinted sermons by Jeremy Taylor," must have proceeded from his
wishes rather than his knowledge. No such MS. is known to exist; and such a discovery is, I
believe, as little to be expected as a fresh play of Shakspeare's. Was it in the "Lands of
Vision," and with "the damsel and the dulcimer," that the transcendental philosopher beheld it?

JAS. CROSSLEY.

Dryden's Absolom and Achitophel (Vol. ii., p. 406.).--The edition noticed by your correspondent,
"printed and sold by H. Hills, in Blackfriars, near the Water Side, for the benefit of the
Poor," 1708, 8vo., is a mere catch-penny. Hills, the printer, was a great sinner in this way.
I have Roscommon's translation of Horace's Art of Poetry, 1709; his Essay on translated Verse,
1709; Mulgrave's Essay on Poetry, 1709; Denham's Cooper's Hill, 1709; and many other poems,
all printed by Hills, on bad paper, and very incorrectly, from 1708 to 1710, for sale at a
low price.

JAS. CROSSLEY.

The Rev. W. Adams (Vol. iii., p. 140.).--The age of Mr. Adams at his death was thirty-three.
His tomb is in the churchyard of Bonchurch--a simple coped coffin; but the cross placed upon
it is, in allusion to his own beautiful allegory, slightly raised, so that its shadow falls--

 "Along the letters of his name,
  And o'er the number of his years."

I have a pretty engraving of this tomb, purchased at Bonchurch in 1849, and your correspondent
may perhaps be glad to adopt the idea for an illustration of the book he mentions.

E. J. M.

Duchess of Buckingham (Vol. iii., p. 224.).--I am much surprised at this question; I thought
{250} there were few ladies of the last century better known than Catherine, daughter of James
II. (to whom he gave the name of Darnley) by Miss Ledley, created Countess of Dorchester. Lady
Catherine Darnley was married first to Lord Anglesey, and secondly to Sheffield Duke of Buckingham,
by whom she was mother of the second duke of that name, who died in his minority, and the title
became extinct. All this, and many more curious particulars of that extraordinary lady, may
be found in the Peerages, in Pope, in Walpole's Reminiscences, and in Park's edition of the
Noble Authors.

C.

"Go the whole Hog" (Vol. iii., p. 224.).--We learn from Men and Manners in America, vol. i.
pp. 18, 19., that going the whole hog is the American popular phrase for radical reform, or
democratical principle, and that it is derived from the phrase used by butchers in Virginia,
who ask their customer whether he will go the whole hog, or deal only for joints or portions of it.

C. B.

Lord Bexley's Descent from Cromwell (Vol. iii., p. 185.).--In answer to PURSUIVANT'S Query,
How were the families of Morse and Ireton connected? it appears that Jane, only child of Richard
Lloyd (of Norfolk?), Esq., by Jane, second daughter of Ireton, married, circa 1700, Nicholas
or Henry Morse. But what appears to me most likely to have occasioned the report of Lord Bexley's
connexion with the Cromwell family is, that the late Oliver Cromwell, Esq., of Cheshunt, married
Miss Mary Morse in 1771, which must have been not far from the period when Lord Bexley's mother,
also a Miss Morse, was married to Mr. Vansittart.

WAYLEN.

Morse and Ireton Families.--I have a small original portrait of General Ireton by old Stone;
on the back of it is a card, on which is the following:--

    "Bequeathed by Jane Morse to her daughter Ann Roberts, this picture of
    her grandfather Ireton. Will dated Jan. 15. 1732-33."

    "Anne Roberts, wife of Gaylard Roberts, brother of Christ^r Roberts,
    father of J. R."

In Noble's Memoirs of the Cromwell Family, vol. ii. p. 302., the name is printed Moore, evidently
a mistake for Morse:--

    "Jane, third daughter of General Ireton, having married Richard Lloyd,
    Esq., the issue of this marriage was Jane, an only child, who married
    Nicholas, or Henry Moore [Morse], Esq., by whom she had four sons and
    three daughters."

SPES.

The Countess of Desmond (Vol. ii., pp. 153. 186. 219. 317.).--Touching this venerable lady,
the following "Note" may not be unacceptable.

In the year 1829, when making a tour in Ireland, I saw an engraving at Lansdowne Lodge, in
the county of Kerry, the residence of Mr. Hickson, on which the following record was inscribed:--

    "Catherine Fitzgerald, Countess of Desmond (from the original in the
    possession of the Knight of Kerry on Panell).

    "She was born in 1464; married in the reign of Edw. IV.; lived during
    the reigns of Edw. V., Rich. III., Hen. VII., Hen. VIII., Edw. VI.,
    Mary, and Elizabeth; and died in the latter end of James' or the
    beginning of Charles I.'s reign, at the great age of 162 years."

On my return home I was much surprised and gratified to find in my own house, framed and glazed,
a very clever small-sized portrait in crayon, which at once struck me a a fac-simile (or nearly
so) of the engraving I had seen at Lansdowne Lodge.

Your correspondent C. in p. 219. appears very sceptical about this female Methuselah! and speaks
of a reputed portrait at Windsor "as a gross imposition, being really that of an old man"--

 "Non nostrum tantus componere lites:"

but I would remind your correspondent C. that such longevity is not impossible, and the traditions
of the Countess of Desmond are widely diffused. The portrait in my possession is not unlike
an old man; but old ladies, like old hen pheasants, are apt to put on the semblance of the male.

A BORDERER.

Aristophanes on the Modern Stage (Vol. iii., p. 105.).--In reply to a Query of our correspondent
C. J. R., I beg leave to state, that, after having made inquiry on the subject, I cannot find
that any of the Comedies of Aristophanes have ever been introduced upon the English stage,
although I agree with him in thinking that some of them might be advantageously adapted to
the modern theatre; and I am more confirmed in this opinion from having witnessed at the Odéon
in Paris, some years since, a dramatic piece, entitled "Les Nuées d'Aristophane," which had
a great run there. It was not a literal translation from the Greek author, but a kind of mélange,
drawn from the Clouds and Plutus together. The characters of Socrates and his equestrian son
were very well performed; but the scenic accessories I considered very meagre, particularly
the choral part, which must have been so striking and beautiful in the original of the former
drama. Upon my return to England I wrote to the then lessee of Drury Lane Theatre, recommending
a similar experiment on our stage from the free version by Wheelwright, published some time
before by the late D. A. Talboys, of Oxford. The answer I received was, that the manager had
then too much on his hands to admit of his giving time to such an undertaking, which I still
think might be a successful one (as is the case with the "Antigone" {251} of Sophocles, so
often represented at Berlin), and such as to ensure the favourable attention of an English
audience, particularly as the subject turns so much upon the danger and uselessness of the
meteoric or visionary education, then so prevalent at Athens.

ARCHÆUS.

Dusseldorf, March 6.

Denarius Philosophorum (Vol. iii., p. 168.).--Bishop Thornborough may have been thus styled
from his attachment to alchemy and chemistry. One of his publications is thus entitled:

