But suppose the bonds were sold below par, that is, that the State had lost $170,000, or less
than four per cent., on bonds for five millions of dollars. Was that a just or valid ground
for repudiating the whole, principal and interest? The plea of usury is always disgraceful,
even if true, especially where the security was negotiable to bearer and had passed, for full
value, into the hands of bona fide holders. But if such a plea is disgraceful to individuals,
what shall be said when it is made on behalf of a State? And what shall be thought of those
who make such an objection? What of a Governor, or of a United States Senator, who urges such
objections on behalf of a State? Do we not feel as if the State were some miserable culprit
on trial, and some pettifogging lawyer was endeavoring to screen him from punishment, by picking
a flaw in the indictment. Yet such are the pleas on behalf of a State, urged by Governor McNutt
and Senator Jefferson Davis. On reference to the letter before referred to, of Jefferson Davis,
it will be found that he does not confine himself to the constitutional objections. That is,
the State should pay none of the money received, because the purchaser, as alleged, had no
right to buy the bonds--and because the sale was, as erroneously stated, an infraction of the
law, that is usurious, or a sale below par. He insists the money was not received by the State,
because, he says, 'Mississippi had no bank, and could not have a bank of issue, because forbidden
by the tenth section of the first article of the United States Constitution--'no State shall
emit bills of credit.'' Surely Mr. Davis must have known, that in the case of the Bank of Kentucky,
a State bank of issue owned exclusively by the State, it was decided by the Supreme Court of
the United States, that such a bank was constitutional, and no politician of the secession
school can object to that decision. (2 Peters 257.) But however this might be, what kind of
a plea is this? Why, if, as alleged by Mr. Davis, Mississippi had violated the Federal Constitution,
by establishing a bank of circulation, that therefore the bonds of the State should be repudiated.
Is it not incredible that a Senator should assume such a position on behalf of his State? But,
if this be sound, it clearly follows, that, inasmuch as the Confederate bonds are issued in
plain violation of the Constitution of the United States, those bonds should be repudiated;
so also if they were sold below par, or if there be any other technical objection. Nor will
it avail that the bonds may have passed into the hands of bona fide holders, for, Mr. Jefferson
Davis says, in his letter of the 29th August, 1849, 'If the bonds have passed into the hands
of innocent holders, the fact does not vary the legal question, as the purchaser could not
acquire more than the seller had to dispose of.' And again, he says, referring to the alleged
inability of the first purchaser to buy the bonds, 'The claim of foreign holders is as good,
but no better, than that of the first purchaser.' It is difficult to say which is most astounding,
the law or the morals of this position. At all events, 'the foreign holders' of Confederate
bonds are informed by Jefferson Davis, that this is the law. Indeed it is a singular coincidence,
that one of the objections made to the payment of the Union Bank bonds by the Governor, was,
as he alleged, 'the monstrous assumption of power on the part of the bank, in seeking to monopolize
the cotton crop of the State, and becoming a factor and shipper of our great staple.' (Senate
Journals, 29.) Why, this is what is being attempted by these Confederate cotton bonds, although
the State-rights strict constructionists of slavedom would in vain look for any clause in their
so-called constitution, authorizing any such transactions in cotton. And here, let me say,
that the objection of a Senator from Mississippi to the payment of her bonds, that, in issuing
them, her Governor and Legislature had violated their own Constitution, proposes to cure one
fraud, by committing another far more stupendous. The bonds were issued by the highest legislative
and executive functionaries of the State, the broad seal of the State attached, the bonds sold,
and the money received. In such a case, there is a legal, as well as a moral estoppel, forbidding
such a plea, for, by the English, as well as by the American doctrine, an estoppel excludes
the truth, whenever such proof would enable the party, who obtained money on false pretences,
to commit a fraud on third persons, by disproving his own averment. This is not a mere technical
rule, but one which is based upon experience, and sustained by the most exalted morality.

I have given the several objections made by Governor McNutt and Senator Davis to the payment
of these bonds, with one exception. This will be found in the following extract from the executive
message of Governor McNutt, (p. 502): 'The bank, I have been informed, has hypothecated these
bonds, and borrowed money upon them of the Baron Rothschild; the blood of Judas and Shylock
flows in his veins, and he unites the qualities of both his countrymen. He has mortgages on
the silver mines of Mexico and the quicksilver mines of Spain. He has advanced money to the
Sublime Porte, and taken as security a mortgage upon the holy city of Jerusalem, and the sepulchre
of our Saviour. It is for the people to say, whether he shall have a mortgage upon our cotton
fields and make serfs of our children.' I trust the baron will have the good sense to smile
at such folly, and realize how universally, at least throughout the North, the malice and dishonesty
of these suggestions was condemned and repudiated. We have no such prejudices, worthy only
of the dark ages, against 'God's chosen people,' 'the descendants of the patriarchs and prophets,'
and the 'countrywomen of the mother of our Lord.'

But this whole question has been twice unanimously decided by the highest judicial tribunal
of Mississippi against the State, and every point made by Governor McNutt and Jefferson Davis
overruled by the court. One of these decisions was in January term, 1842, more than seven years
before the date of Jefferson Davis's letters, and the other was at April term, 1853, nearly
four years subsequently.

The first decision, at January term, 1842, is in the case of Campbell et al. v. Mississippi
Union Bank (6 Howard 625 to 683). In this case it was pleaded 'that the charter of the Mississippi
Union Bank was not enacted and passed by the Legislature in compliance with the provisions
of the Constitution of the State, in this, that the supplemental act of 15th February, 1838,
the same being a law to raise a loan of money on the credit of the State, was not published
and submitted to the succeeding Legislature, according to the provisions of the Constitution
in 9th section, 7th article.' Here the direct constitutional question was presented, requiring
the decision of the Court. The case was most elaborately argued on both sides. The able and
upright circuit judge, Hon. B. Harris, had decided that the supplemental act was constitutional,
and the bonds valid, and the High Court of Errors and Appeals of Mississippi, after full argument
on both sides, unanimously affirmed that decision. In delivering the opinion of this highest
judicial tribunal of the State, and the one designated by the Legislature in 1833, under the
mandatory clause of the Constitution, Chief Justice Sharkey said:

     'The second plea is, in substance, that the act supplemental to
     the charter of the Union Bank, was not agreed to by a majority
     of each House of the Legislature, and entered on the journals
     with the yeas and nays, and referred to the next succeeding
     Legislature, after publication in the newspapers, according to
     the provisions of the 9th section of the 7th article of the
     Constitution; but the said supplemental act made material
     alterations in the original act, and was only passed by one
     Legislature, and that no loan of money can be made on the faith
     of the State without the assent of two Legislatures, given in
     the manner prescribed by the Constitution.'--'I shall then
     proceed to notice the constitutional provision, and to inquire,
     by an application of it to the bank charter, whether the
     position can be sustained. The supplemental act
     makes no alteration whatever in regard to this section. It
     changes in some respects the mere details of the original
     charter, in the mode of carrying the corporation into
     successful operation, and authorizes the Governor to subscribe
     for the stock on the part of the State. The object of the
     pledge is not changed; on the contrary, the supplemental act
     was passed in aid of the original design. In applying the
     constitutional test to the 5th section, I am not able to
     perceive any reason which to me seems sufficient to justify the
     conclusion that it is unconstitutional.'

     'The plea presents no bar to the action.'

Justices Turner and Trotter concurred.

Mr. Howard, the distinguished State reporter, gives, in the heading of the case, the following
as the decision of the court. 'The act supplemental to the charter of the Union Bank, being
in aid of the charter, and changing the same only in some of the mere details, is a constitutional
act.'

Surely this decision should have settled the question. But it did not. The Governor, A. G.
McNutt, who had signed the laws authorizing these bonds, and the bonds themselves, anticipating
the decision of the court (as he indicates in his message) in favor of 'the holders of certain
bonds heretofore issued to the Planters' and Union Bank,' recommends the Legislature, in his
message of January, 1842, to create a 'revenue court,' the judge of which shall be appointed
'by the Executive or Legislature,' to which such cases should be transferred. (Sen. Jour. p.
22.) Thus the case, on the bonds, was to be taken from the high tribunal (where it was then
pending) created by the Constitution, and chosen by the people, and transferred to a revenue
judge to be appointed by the repudiating Governor and Legislature of 1842, of course a mere
executive parasite, or legislative minion, placed on the bench to repudiate the bonds. Fortunately,
such an appointment was forbidden expressly by the Constitution, and would have been disregarded
by the court; so this attempted usurpation failed.

The Governor says in that message:

     'It never was intended by the framers of the Constitution, that
     every public creditor should be permitted to harass the State
     at pleasure by vexatious suits. Neither the judgment of a court
     nor the decree of the Chancellor can be obligatory on the
     Legislature,' &c. (P. 17.)

In conformity with this recommendation of the Governor, the Legislature passed a series of
resolutions declaring that 'the Legislature is the exclusive judge of the objects for which
money shall be raised and appropriated by its authority,' &c.; that the Legislature has no
right to 'levy or appropriate money for the purpose of executing the object of a law, by them
deemed repugnant to, or unauthorized by the Constitution;' that the 'Supplemental (Union Bank)
Bill is unconstitutional;' that 'the bonds delivered by said bank, and by it sold to Nicholas
Biddle on the 18th August, 1838, are not binding upon the State,' &c. (Acts of 1842, ch. 127.)
But, unfortunately for these positions, the Constitution of the State had deprived the Legislature
of all 'judicial power;' it had vested this power exclusively in 'the courts;' it had, in the
very case of all bonds of the State, required and commanded the Legislature to designate the
courts in which such cases should be decided; it had, by the act of 1833, passed in obedience
to the imperative mandate of the Constitution, referred all such cases to the decision of the
Court of Chancery, with appeal to the High Court of Errors and Appeals; it had made their decision
conclusive; it had already appropriated the money, to pay all such decrees, and made it the
duty of the Governor to command the Auditor to draw his warrant on the Treasurer for payment:
this was the constitution of the law when these bonds were issued and sold in 1838--such was
the contract of the State, in regard to which the Federal Constitution declares, 'no State
shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts'--which clause has been uniformly
held by all the Federal as well as State Courts, to apply to contracts of a State--and yet,
in flagrant defiance of the highest duties and the most sacred obligations, the Legislature
passed these resolutions, to nullify the anticipated decisions of the court. We have seen,
however, that this executive and legislative usurpation was ineffectual. The court stood firm,
not a single judge wavered, and, by a unanimous decree, reversed the legislative and executive
repudiation--vindicated the majesty of the law and the Constitution--upheld the sacred cause
of truth and justice--resisted the popular frenzy, and defied the unprincipled demagogues by
whom the people of the State had been deceived and deluded. It was a noble spectacle, when
those three upright and fearless Judges, Sharkey, Turner, and Trotter, entered the temple of
justice, and declared to the people, by whose ballots they were chosen, that the State was
bound to pay these bonds, and decreed accordingly. The same sublime scene was reënacted by
a similar decree, in a suit against the State, on one of these bonds, by the same court, in
1853, then composed of different judges--Smith, Yerger, and Fisher. And not one judge or chancellor
of the State ever wavered. Amid all this heaven-daring iniquity, thank God! the judicial ermine
was unstained. Whilst constrained to denounce the repudiating Legislature, Governor, and Senator
of Mississippi, let me point to another green spot amid the moral waste and desolation of that
dreadful period.

With scarcely an exception, the Bar of Mississippi was true to the cause of honor, law, and
justice. They knew the objections of McNutt and Davis were wretched pretexts, and they vindicated
the reputation of that noble profession, which, in all ages, has been the champion of constitutional
liberty. They were men of the same stamp as their illustrious English ancestry, Hampden, Sidney,
and Russell, whose names cover the map of my country, and whose deeds have exalted the character
of man; and although the blood of our anti-repudiating heroes did not flow like that of the
British martyrs, as a sacrificial offering on the altar of freedom, they sacrificed ease, and
affluence, and ambition, and political preferment, and endured obloquy and reproach. I rejoice
in the recollection, that, during this contest they should have selected a sentence from my
address against repudiation, and placed it on their banners, and at the head of their presses,
in these words: 'The honor of the nation and of every State is the birthright of every American--it
is the stainless and priceless jewel of popular sovereignty--it has been preserved unsullied,
in all times that are past, through every sacrifice of blood and treasure, and it must be maintained.'
Ay! and it will yet be maintained. The time will come, when repudiation will be repudiated
by Mississippi--when her wretched secession leaders, the true authors of her disgrace and ruin,
will be discarded--when her insolent slaveholding oligarchy will be overthrown, when the people
will break the chains of their imperious masters, and labor, without regard to color, will
be emancipated. Secession, repudiation, and slavery are the same in principle and had the same
leaders. Jefferson Davis carried the repudiation banner in 1849, as he now does that of secession
and slavery. Secession is a repudiation of law, of constitution, of country, of the flag of
our forefathers, and of the Union purchased by their blood. Driven at home within a circle
of fire, which narrows every day, it is crouching before foreign rulers, and imploring their
aid to accomplish the ruin of our country. It appeals to their ambition, their avarice, their
fears, their hatred of free institutions and of constitutional government. It summons them
to these English shores, it unsheathes the imperial sceptre in the House of Commons, denounces
the Ministry of England, and dictates the vote of Parliament on the most momentous question
in the history of the world. Why, when these sentiments were uttered, I almost expected to
see the shades of Burke and Fox, and Pitt and Chatham, and Peel and Wellington, rise in the
midst and denounce the degenerate bearer of such a message. What! the British Commons become
the supple tools, the obsequious minions, the obedient parasites, to do the bidding of a foreign
master, and tremble when his envoy should stamp his foot and wave the imperial banner in the
halls of Parliament. From whom was this message, and to whom? Was it to the England of Trafalgar
and the Nile? Was it to the descendants of the men who conquered at Agincourt and Cressy, and
changed for ages at Waterloo the destiny of the world? Why, Nelson would speak from his monument,
and the Iron Duke from his equestrian statue, and forbid the degradation of their country.
But there stood the Confederate messenger, delivering the mandate of a foreign power to the
House of Commons, describing England as a crawling reptile, exalting the Government he professed
to represent, as controlling the Continent, and fearing lest the Imperial Eagle alone should
swoop down upon his prey. And such language, such sentiments! Was I in Billingsgate, that ancient
and illustrious institution, so near the House of Parliament? Why, the whole code of morals
and of international law was repudiated in a sentence, and our demagogues distanced in the
race. Did the envoy echo the voice of his master, when he announced that the American Union
must be dissolved by foreign intervention, because, if reunited, it would be too strong, and
bully the world--therefore France and England combined must strike us when we were supposed
to be weak and divided. It is not the author of such atrocious and dastard sentiments that
would lead the banner of France or of England anywhere except to humiliation and disgrace.
'Non talis auxilii, nec defensoribus ipsis.' No, when England seeks leaders, it will not be
the sycophants of power, those who worship alternately democracy and autocracy, who slaver
over despotism one day with their venom, and the next with their still more loathsome adulation.

But there was a change. The Ministry, and one of an order supposed to be our most deadly foes,
spoke. There were some opinions as to the results in which no American could concur--there
was deep devotion to England--but there was also the voice of reason, of justice, of international
law: it was not so cosmopolitan as I expected, but the argument of felon force and robber violence
was discarded. The scholar, the statesman, the gentleman, the philanthropist addressed the
English Commons. Yes, and the nobility of nature also spoke, one who could rise above the reputed
prejudices of his order, and do justice to a kindred race of simple republicans, though they
may know neither diadems nor coronets. Such examples exalt and dignify the character of man.
They teach us republicans a useful lesson--that those who differ from us as to some of the
forms of government, may most sincerely support that system which in their judgment will best
promote the welfare and happiness of the people. That indeed is the only question. Let England
and America work out the problem in peaceful and friendly rivalry. Time and experience will
decide the question. If, when slavery is extinguished in our Union, and the only aggressive
element of our system is extirpated, we should run a grand and peaceful career of honor and
glory and prosperity, we will want no other argument than the results. The blasphemous doctrine
of the divine rights of kings was discarded by England in the revolution of 1688. The British
throne reposes now on the alleged basis of the welfare and happiness of the people. What form
of government will best promote that end--this is the only question. I believe it is ours--but
only with slavery extinguished, and universal education--schools--schools--SCHOOLS--common
schools--high schools for all. Education the criterion of the right of suffrage, not property.
I do not believe in a government of ignorance, whether by the many or the few. With the constant
and terrible opposing element of slavery, we have certainly achieved stupendous results in
three fourths of a century, and to say that our system has failed, because slavery now makes
war upon it, is amazing folly. Why predict, that, when reunited, and with slavery extinguished,
we would bully the world. Who were our bullies? Who struck down Charles Sumner, the Senator
of Massachusetts, the eminent scholar and orator, on the floor of the Senate, for denouncing
the horrors of slavery? A South Carolinian, whilst all slavedom approved the deed. Who endeavored
to force slavery on Kansas by murder and rapine, and the forgery of a constitution? Who repealed
the Missouri Compromise, in order to force slavery upon all the Territories of the United States?
Who are endeavoring now to dissolve the Union, and spread slavery over all this wide domain?
There is a plain answer to all these questions. It is the lords of the whip and the chain and
the branding iron, who are our bullies--who insist upon forced labor, and repudiate all compensation
to the toiling millions of slaves--who repudiate, among slaves, the marital and parental relation,
and class them by law as chattels--who forbid emancipation--who make it a crime to teach slaves
to read or write--ay, even the Bible--who keep open the interstate slave-trade (more horrible
than the African, making Virginia a human stock farm), tearing husband from wife, and parents
from children--founding a government boldly announcing the doctrine of property in man, based
avowedly on the divinity, extension, and perpetuity of slavery--these are our bullies; and
when they are overthrown, we shall commence a new career of peaceful progress and advanced
civilization. And why sow the seeds of international hatred between England and America? Is
war really desired between the two countries, or is it supposed that we will yield to foreign
intervention without a struggle? No, the North will rise up as one man, and thousands even
from the South will join them. The country will become a camp, and the ocean will swarm with
our privateers. Rather than submit to dismemberment or secession, which is anarchy and ruin,
we will, we must fight, until the last man has fallen. The Almighty can never prosper such
a war upon us. If the views of a foreign power have been truly represented in Parliament, and
such an aggression upon us is contemplated, let him beware, for in such a contest, the political
pyramid resting upon its apex, the power of one man, is much more likely to fall, than that
which reposes on the broad basis of the will of the people.

Returning from this episode, I resume the narrative.

We have seen the repudiating Executive message and repudiating legislative resolutions of January,
1842, and their failure to influence the decision of the court. And now, we approach another
act in the drama. The court having affirmed the constitutionality of the Union Bank bonds,
and as the act of 1833 directed their payment, the Legislature of 1844 enacted a new law, in
these words: 'That hereafter, no judgment or decree of any court of law or equity having jurisdiction
of suits against the State, shall be paid by warrants on the Treasurer, or otherwise, without
an appropriation by law, any former law or usage to the contrary notwithstanding.' The 'law
and usage' were plain, to pay such decrees, as required by the law and Constitution; but both
were disregarded, and the act of 1833, for all practical purposes, repealed. It remained in
part, on the statute book, only to invite to the gambler's game of 'odd I win, even you lose'--that
is, if, under the act of 1833, there should be a decision in any case in favor of the State,
it should be conclusive, but if against the State, the money should not be paid, where (as
in the case of these bonds) the Legislature differed from the court, and had already repudiated
its decision. Such was the action of the Legislature in 1842 and 1844. In 1842, it repudiated,
in advance, the decision of the court on these bonds, and, after that decision, repealed so
much of the law as required the payment of the decrees of the court. Now, who would have supposed,
that more than five years before the date of Mr. Davis's letters, the highest judicial tribunal
of the State, the one designated by the law and the Constitution, had already unanimously decided
that these bonds were valid, and that the State Legislature, instead of paying the money, had
repealed the appropriation. But there came a new court, all chosen by the people, under the
wretched system, in many of the States, of an elective judiciary, but unknown to the independent
Federal judicial system. A suit was brought in 1851, under the act of 1833, on one of the Union
Bank State bonds and coupons before the Chancellor. After elaborate argument, the Chancellor
decided against the State, and entered a decree for the payment of the money. The State, as
authorized by the law, appealed from this decision to its own High Court of Errors and Appeals,
elected by the people.

Surely, it was supposed, that this new court, so recently chosen by the people, after the legislative
repudiation, would be governed by 'a proper regard for the public interest and public opinion.'
Before the Chancellor, as well as the High Court, all the objections made by Governor McNutt
and Senator Davis were earnestly pressed by the Attorney-General of the State and associate
counsel, but in vain; the decision of the Chancellor was against the State, and it was unanimously
affirmed by the High Court. This case will be found reported by the State reporter, Johnson
v. The State, April term, 1853. (3 Cushman, 625 to 882,--257 pages.)

In this case, the bond sued on is given in the record, and will be found an exact copy of that
(heretofore quoted) under the original act, which had passed two successive Legislatures, the
principal as well as coupons being payable in Federal currency.

On the reverse side of the bond is the following:

     '£450 sterling. The President, Directors, and Co. of the
     Mississippi Union Bank, do hereby designate the agency of the
     Bank of the United States in London, as the place of payment of
     the within bond and interest, and hereby assign and transfer
     the same for value received to the bearer, principal equal to
     £450 sterling, and guarantee the payment of the same at the
     place designated.

                                 'S. GWIN, Cashier.

                                 'H. G. RUNNELLS, President.

     'Mississippi State Bond, No. 91. 'Redeemable February 25th,
     1850.'

As to the place where the bond was made payable, there could be no objection, for the original,
as well as the supplemental act, gave full authority to make the bonds payable abroad. But
as to the objection that they were said to be payable in sterling, at the rate of four shillings
and sixpence to the pound, the answer was, as shown: 1st. That this was the true rate of exchange.
2d. That the bond was payable in Federal currency, and this was all the bondholder ever asked
from the State. As to the allegation that the bonds were sold below par, the court showed most
conclusively from the facts and agreed case, that they were sold above par, and their constitutionality
was fully affirmed.

The argument of the Attorney-General (Glenn) for the State, embraced 32 printed pages; in addition
to which was an elaborate argument by his associate, Mr. Stearns. The opinion of Chief Justice
Smith embraced 45 pages, the concurring opinion of Justice Yerger, 27 pages, and Justice Fisher
concurred. The State was not satisfied, but moved for a reargument, that of Wharton for the
State, embracing 54 pages, and that of Mays, on the same side, 32 pages; but the court adhered
to their decision, and unanimously affirmed the decree of the Chancellor against the State.
The decision of the court, in the heading of the case, is thus given by the reporter.

     'The bonds might have been legally issued to the bank, by the
     Governor, on the 5th June, 1838, pursuant to the provision of
     the original charter of the bank, and the faith of the State
     pledged for the purpose of raising the capital.' 'The
     supplement was not void in consequence of not having been
     passed in conformity with the provisions of the Constitution
     contained in the 7th article, 9th section of that instrument.'
     'The object of the original pledge of the faith of the State,
     was not changed by the supplemental charter, but it was passed
     in aid of the original charter.' 'Campbell v. Union Bank (6
     Howard 625) cited and confirmed.' 'The liability of the
     State, under the operation of the charter of the bank, attached
     so soon or whenever the bonds were legally executed to the
     bank, and the execution of the mortgages was neither a
     condition precedent to the pledge of the faith of the State,
     nor the condition on which the State bonds were to be executed
     and delivered.' 'It does not appear from the facts that the
     bonds were sold for less than their par value. Held that the
     sale was neither illegal nor void.' 'If the commissioners in
     the sale of the bonds received 'sterling money of Great
     Britain' at the rate of four shillings and sixpence to the
     pound, that is not such an act on their part as would avoid the
     bonds.'

Here, then, the whole case was again fully decided in 1853, by the very tribunal to which Jefferson
Davis, in 1849, invited the bondholders. And did he or the State then yield or pay the obligations.
Not at all, but they adhered to the repudiation of these bonds, disregarded and defied the
decision of the court, and have never paid one dollar of principal or interest, and never will,
so long as slavery exists in Mississippi. But it is of some moment, at least to the unfortunate
bondholders, that the minister of Jefferson Davis at Paris, avers now that these bonds are
unconstitutional.

In the case, also, of another slaveholding State, I will prove, from the public documents,
that Jefferson Davis volunteered to sustain her in the repudiation of her State bonds, in a
case more atrocious, if possible, than that of Mississippi. As Jefferson Davis is now at the
head of a slaveholding conspiracy, endeavoring to destroy the Government of my country, and
is now also engaged in selling worthless Confederate bonds in this market, I have deemed it
my duty to make this publication.

                                                    R. J. WALKER.

NOTE.--Since this was written, the supposed menacing message from the Continent has been officially
contradicted. Surely, however, I had a right to conclude, after such solemn assurances from
a member to the House, that, although acting in the character of a Confederate messenger, and
avowing such atrocious sentiments, he at least spoke the truth on that point.

                                                    R. J. W.

EVERGREEN BEAUTY.

Perhaps if my early home had stood upon an island of evergreens, or if I had dreamed my first
bright dreams among pine hills and cliffs of laurel, I should have loved their changeless beauty
less. But through all my early years I saw but little of our native evergreens, and none of
cultured, save a stunted cedar, that grew, or, rather, refused to grow, in our front yard at
home; and thus they have ever attracted me exceedingly--the charm of rarity and novelty being
added for me to their exceeding beauty.

And yet, if brought up among them, I might but have loved them more. For all I know of philosophy,
if I had been earlier familiar with shrubs, hedges, groups, cedared cliffs, and tall forests
of evergreens, they might have brought me still nobler conceptions, a more exquisite sense
of beauty, than they now do.

Be that as it may, two years 'among the pines' of Virginia and her piny mountains, have enriched
my mind with rare pictures of scenic beauty that shall keep fresh and green in memory while
memory endures! I am no botanist, I have made no studies of the evergreens, nor shall I attempt
to write of them as scholar or critic, but only as a fascinated observer. I neither care to
know or tell whether the shrubs and trees in my evergreen pictures are angiosperms or gymnosperms;
we have no 'transportation' for text books for students! During these two years, however, I
have been charmed with a thousand views of landscape scenery, embracing every form, hue, and
combination of our lovely native evergreens, whether on mountain, hill, or plain. I have seen
them along winding streams, with backgrounds of bold, rocky bluffs; sweeping across undulating
plains; rising with the uplifting mountains; peering into and over romantic mountain gorges;
and growing up through the interstices of bowldered cascades. Or, standing on the mountain
peaks, I have seen them sweep away into the vastness and grandeur of mighty, varied, and almost
boundless expanse. These are but parts of my evergreen pictures. I have looked upon a simple
holly bush when the wind of winter was upon it, scattering in lovely fragments its pure white
robe of snow, revealing the gleaming of the rich green leaves, and the half-hidden clusters
of the carmine berries. Three distinct colors thrown carelessly together, but no want of harmony--only
pure and exquisite beauty!

