Our present example is pure tragedy of the most ambitious kind, and is, perhaps, a little in
advance of the taste of a Music-hall audience of the present day. When the fusion between the
Theatres and the Music-Halls is complete--when Miss BESSIE BELLWOOD sings "What Cheer, 'Ria?"
at the Lyceum, and Mr. HENRY IRVING gives his compressed version of Hamlet at the Trocadero;
when there is a general levelling-up of culture, and removal of prejudice--then, and not till
then, will this powerful little play meet with the appreciation which is its due. The main
idea is suggested by the Misses TAYLOR'S well-known poem, The Pin, though the dramatist has
gone further than the poetess in working out the notion of Nemesis.

THE FATAL PIN.--A TRAGEDY.

DRAMATIS PERSONÆ.

Emily Heedless. By either Miss VESTA TILLEY or Mrs. BERNARD BEERE.

Peter Paragon. Mr. FORBES ROBERTSON or Mr. ARTHUR ROBERTS (only he mustn't sing "The Good Young
Man who Died").

First and Second Bridesmaids. Miss MAUDE MILLETT and Miss ANNIE HUGHES.

    SCENE.--EMILY'S Boudoir, sumptuously furnished with a
    screen and sofa, C. Door, R., leading to EMILY'S
    Bed-chamber. Door, L. EMILY discovered in loose
    wrapper, and reclining in uncomfortable position on
    sofa.

Emily (dreamily). This day do I become the envied bride of PETER, justly surnamed PARAGON;
and much I wonder what in me he found (he, who Perfection so personifies) that he could condescend
an eye to cast on faulty, feather-headed EMILY! How solemn is the stillness all around me!
(A loud bang is heard behind screen.) Methought I heard the dropping of a pin!--perhaps I should
arise and search for it.... Yet why, on second thoughts, disturb myself, since I am, by my
settlements, to have a handsome sum allowed for pin-money? Nay, since thou claim'st thy freedom,
little pin, I lack the heart to keep thee prisoner. Go, then, and join the great majority of
fallen, vagrant, unregarded pinhood--my bliss is too supreme at such an hour to heed such infidelities
as thine.

    [Falls into a happy reverie.

    Enter First and Second Bridesmaids.

First and Second Bridesmaids. What, how now, EMILY--not yet attired? Nay, haste, for PETER
will be here anon!

    [They hurry her off by R. door, just as PETER
    PARAGON enters L. in bridal array. N.B.--The
    exigences of the Drama are responsible for his making
    his appearance here, instead of waiting, as is more
    usual, at the church.

Peter (meditatively). The golden sands of my celibacy are running low--soon falls the final
grain! Yet, even now, the glass I would not turn. My EMILY is not without her faults--"was
not without them," I should rather say, for during ten idyllic years of courtship, by precept
and example I have striven to mould her to a helpmate fit for me. Now, thank the Gods, my labours
are complete--she stands redeemed from all her giddiness! (Here he steps upon the pin, and
utters an exclamation). Ha! what is this? I'm wounded ... agony! With what a darting pain my
foot's transfixed! I'll summon help (with calm courage)--yet, stay, I would not dim this nuptial
day by any sombre cloud. I'll bear this stroke alone--and now to probe the full extent of my
calamity. (Seats himself on sofa in such a position as to be concealed by the screen from all
but the audience, and proceeds to remove his boot.) Ye powers of Perfidy, it is a pin! I must
know more of this--for it is meet such criminal neglect should be exposed. Severe shall be
that house-maid's punishment who's proved to be responsible for this!--but soft, I hear a step.

    [Enter First and Second Bridesmaids, who hunt
    diligently upon the carpet without observing PETER's
    presence.

Emily's Voice (within). Oh, search, I pray you. It must be there--my own ears heard it fall!

    [PETER betrays growing uneasiness.

