Mr. Russell's "Review" is rather a paraphrase and a condensation,--the original work of the
Russian General being too costly even for the English market. The task of the English editor
is done with his usual spirit, and with all the more zest from an evident enjoyment of finding
Mr. Kinglake in the wrong. Between his sympathies as a Briton and his sympathies as a literary
man there is sometimes a struggle. But we Americans can do more justice to Mr. Russell than
in those days of national innocence when we knew not Mackay and Gallenga and Sala; and it must
be admitted that the tone of the present book is manly and impartial.

Kinglake's description of the Battle of the Alma will always remain as one of the masterpieces
of literature in its way; but it is noticeable that Todleben entirely ignores some of the historian's
most dramatic effects, and also knocks away much of his underpinning by demolishing the reputation
of General Kiriakoff, his favorite Russian witness. Kinglake says that Eupatoria was occupied
by a small body of English troops, and tells a good story about it: Todleben declares that
the Allies occupied it with more than three thousand men and eight field-guns. Kinglake represents
Lord Raglan as forcing the French officers, with great difficulty, to disembark the troops
at a spot of his own selection: Todleben gives to Canrobert and Martinprey the whole credit
of the final choice and of all the arrangements. And so on.

On the side of the Russians, the most interesting points brought out by Todleben are their
fearful disadvantage as regarded the armament of the infantry, (these being decimated by the
rifles of the Allies long before the Russians were near enough to use their smooth-bores,)
and the popular enthusiasm inspired by the war in Russia. "The Czar was aided by the spontaneous
contributions of his people. Great supplies were forwarded by private individuals of all that
an army could need." "From all parts of the empire persons sent lint, bandages, etc., by post
to the army." These are phrases which bring us back to the daily experience of our own vaster
struggle.

As respects the Allies, Todleben uniformly credits the French army with more of every military
quality than the English, save personal courage alone. From the commanding general to the lowest
private, every technical detail of duty seems to have been better done by the French. At the
height of the siege, it became "a war of sorties" on the part of the Russians, and Todleben
says,--"Apropos of those sorties, it is indispensable to make the remark here, that the French
guarded their trenches with much more vigilance, and defended them with incomparably more tenacity,
than the English. It frequently happened that our volunteers approached the English trenches
without being perceived, and without even firing a single shot, and found the soldiers of the
guard sitting in the trench in the most perfect security, far from their firelocks, which were
stacked in piles. With the French, matters were quite different. They were always on the qui
vive, so that it rarely happened we were able to get near them without having been remarked,
and without having to receive beforehand a sharp fire of musketry."

This, however, as Russell remarks, was when the English army was at its lowest condition of
neglect; but that simply transfers the indictment to another count. And it is interesting to
observe, that Russell's claim for the English army and Todleben's claim for the Russian army
come at last to about the same point, namely, that the individual soldier is in each case tough
and resolute to the last degree. But this is only the beginning of the merits of the French
array, which to individual courage superadds all that organization can attain.

As to the poor Turks, they are dismissed with much the same epitaph which might long since
have been written for our colored troops, if some of our Department commanders had been suffered
to have their way:--"As to the Turks, the Allies despised them, and the English used them as
beasts of burden; in short, they lost three hundred men a day, till they almost perished out,
and the remains of their army were sent away."

In view of the grander issues of our own pending contest, with its vaster scale of munitions
and of men, one cannot always feel the due interest in successive pages about battles like
"Little Inkermann," where the total of Russian killed and wounded comprised twenty-five officers
and two hundred and forty-five men. But it is not numbers which make a contest memorable. Even
the mere contemplation of the Crimean War had an appreciable influence on the military training
of the American people; and the clear narratives of Todleben, written "in his usual elaborate
engineering way, in which every word is used like a gabion," form a good sequel to that unconscious
instruction.

     Vanity Fair. A Novel without a Hero. By WILLIAM MAKEPEACE
     THACKERAY. With Illustrations by the Author. New York: Harper &
     Brothers. 3 vols. 12mo.

In the novels of Thackeray, essay is so much mixed up with narrative, and comment with characterization,
that they can hardly be thoroughly appreciated in poor editions. The temptation to skip is
almost irresistible, when wisdom can be purchased only at the expense of eyesight. We are therefore
glad to welcome the commencement of a new edition of his writings, over whose pages the reader
can linger at his pleasure, and quietly enjoy subtilties of humor and observation which in
previous perusals he overlooked. The present volumes, published by the Harpers, are among the
most tasteful and comely products of the Cambridge University Press. Printed in large type
on tinted paper, elegantly bound in green cloth, and with a fac-simile of the author's autograph
on the cover, every copy has the appearance of being a presentation copy. No English edition
of "Vanity Fair" is equal to this American one in respect either to convenience of form or
beauty of mechanical execution. The illustrations are numerous, well engraved, and embody the
writer's own conceptions of his scenes and characters, and are often deliciously humorous.

"Vanity Fair," though it does not include the whole extent of Thackeray's genius, is the most
vigorous exhibition of its leading characteristics. In freshness of feeling, elasticity of
movement, and unity of aim, it is favorably distinguished from its successors, which too often
give the impression of being composed of successive accumulations of incidents and persons,
that drift into the story on no principle of artistic selection and combination. The style,
while it has the raciness of individual peculiarity and the careless ease of familiar gossip,
is as clear, pure, and flexible as if its sentences had been subjected to repeated revision,
and every pebble which obstructed its lucid and limpid flow had been laboriously removed. The
characterization is almost perfect of its kind. Becky Sharp, the Marquis of Steyne, Sir Pitt
Crawley and the whole Crawley family, Amelia, the Osbornes, Major Dobbin, not to mention others,
are as well known to most cultivated people as their most intimate acquaintances in the Vanity
Fair of the actual world. It has always seemed to us that Mr. Osborne, the father of George,
a representation of the most hateful phase of English character, is one of the most vividly
true and life-like of all the delineations in the book, and more of a typical personage than
even Becky or the Marquis of Steyne. Thackeray's theory of characterization proceeds generally
on the assumption that the acts of men and women are directed not by principle, but by instincts,
selfish or amiable,--that toleration for human weakness is possible only by lowering the standard
of human capacity and obligation,--and that the preliminary condition of an accurate knowledge
of human character is distrust of ideals and repudiation of patterns. This view is narrow,
and by no means covers all the facts of history and human life, but what relative truth it
has is splendidly illustrated in "Vanity Fair." There is not a person in the book who excites
the reader's respect, and not one who fails to excite his interest. The morbid quickness of
the author's perceptions of the selfish element, even in his few amiable characters, is a constant
source of surprise. The novel not only has no hero, but implies the non-existence of heroism.
Yet the fascination of the book is indisputable, and it is due to a variety of causes besides
its mere exhibition of the worldly side of life. Among these, the perfect intellectual honesty
of the writer, the sad or satirical sincerity with which he gives in his evidence against human
nature, is the most prominent. With all his lightness of manner, he is essentially a witness
under oath, and testifies only to what he is confident he knows. Perhaps this quality, rare
not only in novel-writing, but in all writing, would not compensate for the limitation of his
perceptions and the repulsiveness of much that he perceives, were it not for the peculiar charm
of his representation. It is here that the individuality of the man appears, and it presents
a combination of sentiments and powers more original perhaps than the matter of his works.
Take from "Vanity Fair" that special element of interest which comes from Thackeray's own nature,
and it would lose the greater portion of its fascination. It is not so much what is done, as
the way in which it is done, that surprises and delights; and the manner is always inimitable,
even when the matter is common.

     Seaside and Fireside Fairies. Translated from the German of
     George Blum and Louis Wahl. By A. L. WISTAR. Philadelphia:
     Ashmead & Evans.

These pretty fairy stories peep at us out of German-land through a pleasant, clear translation,
and they remind us how easily the supernatural and loves to dwell in airborn castles. The beautiful
instinct of reverence common to child-life is readily taken advantage of by writers for the
young; but where in England we find in stories some angel-mother who discovers the treachery
of her governess and teaches her own children, or a rotund uncle who tips the boys, providentially,
as it seems, in Germany the protectors of children possess no nearer abode than the land of
Fairy, and their presence is as rare as that of the Indian "Vanishers." Perhaps, even among
American children, the tales which approximate more nearly to their experience hold the strongest
attractive power; yet, in the wide range of the commingled races of the United States, there
must be many children who long for stories of that dear Dream-land familiar to their thoughts,
and to whom these stories would be a happy era in childhood's experience.

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS. By Max Müller, Fellow of All-Souls College, Oxford; Correspondent
de l'Institut de France. Second Series. With Thirty-One Illustrations. New York. C. Scribner.
12mo. pp. 622. $3.00. New York. C. Scribner. 12mo. pp. 356. $1.75.

The Beautiful Widow. By Mrs. Percy B. Shelley. Philadelphia. T. B. Peterson & Brothers. 12mo.
pp. 244. $2.00.

The Differential Calculus: with Unusual and Particular Analysis of its Elementary Principles,
and Copious Illustrations of its Practical Application. By John Spare, A. M., M. D. Boston.
Bradley, Dayton, & Co. 12mo. pp. xx., 244. $2.00.

Vest-Pocket Lexicon. An English Dictionary of all except Familiar Words; including the Principal
Scientific and Technical Terms, and Foreign Moneys, Weights, and Measures. By Jabez Jenkins.
Philadelphia. J. B. Lippincott & Co. 18mo. pp. 563.