But we do find in real life cases of dissociation of the personality, also called cases of
double or multiple personality. The individual passes from one state to another, behaving very
differently in the two states, and usually unable to remember in the primary or more lasting
state what he has done in the secondary state. In the secondary state he remembers what he
did in the primary state, but is apt to speak of it as if done by another person. In many cases,
the primary state seems limited and hampered, as if the individual were not his complete self,
while the secondary state is a sort of complement to the first, but decidedly imperfect in
itself. Thus in the primary state the individual may be excessively quiet, while in the secondary
state he is excessively mischievous. It is much as if some of his reaction-tendencies were
forcibly kept apart from the rest, so that when they did become aroused to activity, the remainder
of the individual went to sleep. The individual seems to function in fractions, and never as
a whole.

Often the secondary state likes to have a name for itself and to be considered as a secondary
personality, as if two persons were inhabiting the same body--a very forced conception. The
secondary personality will even assert that it stays awake in the background and watches the
primary personality when the latter is active, spying on it without {560} that personality
being aware of it. Thus two fractions of the individual would be functioning at the same time,
but still not working together as a unit.

This claim of the secondary personality has been experimentally checked up by Dr. Morton Prince,
in the following way. He was able to cause his subject, a young woman, to pass from the primary
to the secondary state and back again, by a procedure resembling hypnotism. While she was in
the secondary state, he told her that she (the secondary personality) was to solve an arithmetical
problem, the general nature of which he described to her then and there, while the actual numbers
were not shown till she was put back in the primary state. He then put her into the primary
state for a few moments, and placed the numbers unobtrusively before her, without the primary
personality seeming to notice them. Put back now into the secondary state, she instantly shouted
out the answer to the problem, and asserted that she (the secondary personality) had had the
answer ready for some time, and had been impatiently waiting to be brought back and announce
it. This is at least prima facie evidence in favor of Dr. Prince's view, that two separate
fractions of the individual were both functioning consciously at the same time.

It is weird business, however interpreted, and raises the question whether anything of the
same sort, only milder in degree, occurs in ordinary experience. Here is one somewhat similar
fact that we are all familiar with: we have two matters in hand at the same time, very different
in their emotional tone, one perhaps a worrisome matter of business, the other an interesting
personal matter; and the shift from one to the other feels almost like changing personalities.
Also, while busy with one, we may sometimes feel the other stirring, just barely awake and
dimly conscious.

Also, is not something like this true?--A person, very {561} conscientious in the performance
of his duties, always doing what he is told, feels stirrings of a carefree, independent spirit,
as if some sides of his nature were not finding expression, and in little ways he gives it
expression, not exactly by taking a "moral holiday" [Footnote: This is one of William James's
expressive phrases.] or going on a spree of some sort, but by venting his impulses just an
instant at a time, so that he scarcely remembers it later, and in such little ways that other
people, also, are scarcely aware of It. He has a "secondary personality", only it is little
developed, and it has its little place in the conscious life, instead of being dissociated.

In the cases of true dissociation, there was often a violent emotional shock that started the
cleavage. One celebrated case started at 8 years of age, when the subject, a little girl, was
thrown to the floor by a drunken father angered by finding the child asleep in his bed. From
that moment, it would seem that the frolicsome side of childish behavior was banished from
the main personality, and could get into action only when the main personality relaxed its
control and became dormant; so that thereafter the child alternated between two states, one
very quiet, industrious and conscientious, the other vivacious and mischievous; and the main
personality never remembered what was done in this secondary, mischievous state. In such cases,
it would appear that the cleavage resulted from a violent thrusting out from the main personality
of tendencies inconsistent with the dominant (here serious) attitude of that personality.

The Unconscious, or, the Subconscious Mind

Here at last, it may strike the reader, we have come to the core of the whole subject of psychology;
for many readers will undoubtedly have been attracted by the statements {562} sometimes made,
to the effect that the "unconscious" represents the deeper and more significant part of mental
life, and that psychologists who confine their attention mostly to the conscious activities
are treating their subject in a very partial and superficial manner. There is a sort of fascination
about the notion of a subconscious mind, and yet it will be noticed that psychologists, as
a rule, are inclined to be wary and critical in dealing with it. Let as take up in order the
various sorts of unconscious mental processes.

In the first place, retention is unconscious. The host of memories that a person possesses
and can recall under suitable conditions is carried about with him in an unconscious condition.
But there need be no special mystery about this, nor is it just to speak about memories being
"preserved in the unconscious". The fact simply is that retention is a resting condition, whereas
consciousness is an active condition. Retention is a matter of brain structure, neurone connections,
neural mechanisms ready for action when the proper stimulus reaches them but remaining inactive
till the stimulus comes. An idea is like a motor reaction, to the extent that it is a reaction;
and we retain ideas in the same way that we retain learned motor reactions. Now no one would
think of saying that a learned motor reaction was retained in the unconscious. The motor reaction
is not present at all, until it is aroused; the neuro-muscular mechanism for executing the
reaction is present, but needs a stimulus to make it active and give the reaction. In the same
way, an idea is not present in the individual except when it is activated, but its neural mechanism
is present, and unconscious just because it is inactive.

Unconscious inactivity is therefore no great problem. But there is such a thing as unconscious
activity. Two sorts of such activity are well known. First, there are the {563} purely "physiological"
processes of digestion, liver and kidney secretion, etc. We are quite reconciled to these being
unconscious, and this is not the sort of unconscious activity that gives us that fascinatingly
uncanny feeling. Second, there are the "secondarily automatic" processes, once conscious, now
almost or quite unconscious through the effect of frequent repetition.

Such unconscious activities occur as side-activities, carried on while something else occupies
attention, or as part-activities that go on while attention is directed to the total performance
of which they are parts. In either case, the automatism may be motor or perceptive, and the
degree of consciousness may range from moderate down to zero. [Footnote: See pp. 265-267.]

For example, the letters of your name you write almost unconsciously, while fully conscious
of writing your name. When you are reading, the letters are only dimly conscious, and even
the words are only moderately conscious, while the whole performance of reading is highly conscious.
These are instances of unconscious (or dimly conscious) part-activities. Unconscious side-activities
are illustrated by holding your books firmly but unconsciously under your arm, while absorbed
in conversation, by drumming with your fingers while puzzling over a problem, and by looking
at your watch and reading the time, but so nearly unconsciously that the next instant you have
to look again. In all such cases, the unconscious or barely conscious activity has been made
easy by previous practice, and there is no special fascination about it, except such as comes
through the use of that awesome word, "unconscious".

But now for the real "subconscious mind". You try to recall a familiar name, but are stuck;
you drop the matter, and "let your subconscious mind work"; and, sure enough, after a few minutes
you have the name. Or, you are all {564} tangled up in a difficult problem; you let the subconscious
mind work on it overnight, and next morning it is perfectly clear. Just here it is that psychology
begins to take issue with the popular idea. The popular interpretation is that work has been
done on the problem during the interval when it was out of consciousness--unconscious mental
work of a high order. But is it necessary to suppose that any work has been done on the problem
during the interval?

The difficulty, when you first attacked the problem, arose from false clues which, once they
got you, held you by virtue of their "recency value". [Footnote: See pp. 390-391.] The matter
laid aside, these false clues lost their recency value with lapse of time, so that when you
took the matter up again you were free from their interference and had a good chance to go
straight towards the goal.

It is the same with motor acts. On a certain day, a baseball pitcher falls into an inefficient
way of handling the ball, and, try as he may, cannot recover his usual form. He has to give
up for that day, but after a rest is as good as ever. Shall we say that his subconscious mind
has been practising pitching during the rest interval? It is much more likely that here, as
in the preceding case, the value of a fresh start lies in freshness, in rest and the consequent
disappearance of interferences, rather than in any work that has been done during the interval
of rest.

Next, consider the "co-conscious" as Morton Prince has well named the presence and activity
of the secondary personality along with the primary, as in his experiment described above.
Here it seems that two streams of consciousness were flowing along side by side within the
same individual. There is the activity of the main personality, and there is the activity of
the secondary personality, going on at the same time without the knowledge of the main {565}
personality. This is a way of reading the facts, rather than a simple statement of fact, but
at least it is a reasonable interpretation, and worthy of consideration.

Unconscious Wishes and Motives

Schopenhauer wrote much of the "will to live", which was, in his view, as unconscious as it
was fundamental, and only secondarily gave rise to the conscious life of sensations and ideas.
Bergson's "élan vital" has much the same meaning. In a sense, the will to live is the fountain
of all our wishes; in another sense, it is the sum total of them all; and in another sense,
it is an abstraction, the concrete facts consisting in the various particular wishes and tendencies
of living creatures. The will to live is not simply the will to stay alive; it is the will
to live with all that that includes. Life is activity, and to live means, for any species,
to engage in the full activity possible for that species.

The will to live is in a sense unconscious, since it is seldom present simply in that bald,
abstract form. But since life is activity, any will to act is the will to live in a special
form, so that we may perfectly well say that the will to live is always conscious whenever
there is any conscious impulse or purpose.

In this simple statement we may find the key to all unconscious motives, disregarding the case
of dissociation and split personality. If you analyze your motives for doing a certain act
and formulate them in good set terms, then you have to admit that this motive was unconscious
before, or only dimly conscious, since it was not formulated, it was not isolated, it was not
present in the precise form you have now given it. Yet it was there, implicated in the total
conscious activity. It was not unconscious in the sense of being active in a different, unconscious
realm. The realm in which it was active was that of conscious activity, and it formed an {566}
unanalyzed part of that activity. It was there in the same way that overtones are present in
perceiving the tone quality of a particular instrument; the overtones are not separately heard
and may be very difficult to analyze, yet all the time they are playing an important part in
the conscious perception.

In the same way, we may not "realize" that we are helping our friend as a way of dominating
over him, but think, so far as we stop to think, that our motive is pure helpfulness. Later,
analyzing our motives, we may separate out the masterful tendency, which was present all the
time and consciously present, but so bound up with the other motive of helpfulness that it
did not attract attention to itself. Now if our psychology makes us cynics, and leads us to
ascribe the whole motivation of the helpful act to the mastery impulse, and therefore to regard
this as working in the unconscious, we are fully as far from the truth as when we uncritically
assumed that helpfulness was the only motive operating.

For man, to live means a vast range of activity--more than can possibly be performed by any
single individual. We wish to do a thousand things that we never can do. We are constantly
forced to limit the field of our activity. Physical incapacity, mental incapacity, limitations
of our environment, conflict between one wish and another of our own, opposition from other
people, and mere lack of time, compel us to give up many of our wishes. Innumerable wishes
must be laid aside, and some, resisting, have to be forcibly suppressed. Renunciation is the
order of the day, from childhood up to the age when weakness and weariness supervene upon the
zest for action, and the will to live fades out into readiness to die.

What becomes of the suppressed wishes, we have already briefly considered. [Footnote: See p.
533.] We have noticed Freud's conception {567} that they live on "in the unconscious". Nothing
ever learned, he would say, can ever be forgotten, and no wish ever aroused can ever be quieted,
except by being gratified either directly or through some substitute response. Each one of
us, according to this view, carries around inside of him enough explosive material to blow
to bits the whole social structure in which he lives. It is the suppressed sex wishes, and
spite wishes growing out of thwarted sex wishes, that mostly constitute the unconscious.

