This e-text uses a number of special characters, including:

    vowels with macrons: ā ē ō
    vowels with breves: ă ĕ ŏ
    accented Greek: ἀ ἔ ἦ ϊ ῦ ῳ
    phonetic symbols: ɛ ɨ ɵ ŋ

If these do not display correctly, make sure that your browser’s file encoding is set to UTF-8.
You may also need to change your default font.

A short passage on page 222 uses some unusual phonetic symbols; different Unicode characters
have been substituted where the original symbols were not available. The html version contains
images of the original book’s symbols.

In the original book, the odd-numbered pages have unique headers, marked here as sidenotes.

Obvious printing errors involving punctuation (such as missing single quotes), as well as alphabetization
errors in the index, have been corrected without notes. Other corrections of printing errors,
as well as notes regarding spelling variations, are listed at the end of this file.}

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLISH PAST AND PRESENT

BY

RICHARD CHENEVIX TRENCH, D.D.

Edited with Emendations

BY

A. SMYTHE PALMER, D.D.

Author of ‘The Folk and their Word-lore,’ ‘Folk-Etymology,’ ‘Babylonian Influence on the Bible,’
etc.

{Illustration: Printer’s Mark}

LONDON

GEORGE ROUTLEDGE & SONS, LIMITED

NEW YORK: E. P. DUTTON & CO.

1905

EDITOR’S PREFACE

In editing the present volume I have thought it well to follow the same rule which I laid down
for myself in editing The Study of Words, and have made no alteration in the text of Dr. Trench’s
work (the fifth edition). Any corrections or additions that seemed to be demanded owing to
the progress of lexicographical knowledge have been reserved for the foot-notes, and these
can always be distinguished from those in the original by the square brackets [thus] within
which they are placed.

On the whole more corrections have been required in English Past and Present than in The Study
of Words owing to the sweeping statements which involve universal negatives--statements, e.g.
that certain words either first came into use, or ceased to be employed, at a specific date.
Nothing short of the combined researches of an army of co-operative workers, such as the New
English Dictionary commanded, could warrant the correctness of assertions of this kind, which
imply an exhaustive acquaintance with a subject so immense as the entire range of English literature.

Even the mistakes of a learned man are instructive to those who essay to follow in his steps,
and it is not without use to point them out instead of ignoring or expunging them. Thus, when
the Archbishop falls into the error (venial when he wrote) of assuming an etymological connexion
between certain words which have a specious air of kinship--such as ‘care’ and ‘cura,’ ‘bloom’
and ‘blossom,’ ‘ghastly’ and ‘ghostly,’ ‘brat’ and ‘brood,’ ‘slow’ and ‘slough’--he makes just
the mistakes which we would be tempted to make ourselves had not Professor Skeat and Dr. Murray
and the great German School of philologists taught us to know better. Our plan, therefore,
has been to leave such errors in the text and point out the better way in the notes. In other
words, we have treated the Archbishop’s work as a classic, and the occasional emendations in
the notes serve to mark the progress of half a century of etymological investigation. It is
hardly necessary to point out that the chronological landmarks occurring here and there need
an obvious equation of time to make them correct for the present year of grace, e.g. ‘lately,’
when it occurs, must be understood to mean at least fifty years ago, and a similar addition
must be made to other time-points when they present themselves.

                                          A. SMYTHE PALMER.

PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION

A series of four lectures which I delivered last spring to the pupils of the King’s College
School, London, supplied the foundation to this present volume. These lectures, which I was
obliged to prepare in haste, on a brief invitation, and under the pressure of other engagements,
being subsequently enlarged and recast, were delivered in the autumn somewhat more nearly in
their present shape to the pupils of the Training School, Winchester; with only those alterations,
omissions and additions, which the difference in my hearers suggested as necessary or desirable.
I have found it convenient to keep the lectures, as regards the persons presumed to be addressed,
in that earlier form which I had sketched out at the first; and, inasmuch as it helps much
to keep lectures vivid and real that one should have some well defined audience, if not actually
before one, yet before the mind’s eye, to suppose myself throughout addressing my first hearers.
I have supposed myself, that is, addressing a body of young Englishmen, all with a fair amount
of classical knowledge (in my explanations I have sometimes had others with less than theirs
in my eye), not wholly unacquainted with modern languages; but not yet with any special designation
as to their future work; having only as yet marked out to them the duty in general of living
lives worthy of those who have England for their native country, and English for their native
tongue. To lead such through a more intimate knowledge of this into a greater love of that,
has been a principal aim which I have set before myself throughout.

In a few places I have been obliged again to go over ground which I had before gone over in
a little book, On the Study of Words; but I believe that I have never merely repeated myself,
nor given to the readers of my former work and now of this any right to complain that I am
compelling them to travel a second time by the same paths. At least it has been my endeavour,
whenever I have found myself at points where the two books come necessarily into contact, that
what was treated with any fulness before, should be here touched on more lightly; and only
what there was slightly handled, should here be entered on at large.

CONTENTS

    LECTURE I                                  PAGE
    ENGLISH A COMPOSITE LANGUAGE                  1

    LECTURE II
    GAINS OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE                40

    LECTURE III
    DIMINUTIONS OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE         113

    LECTURE IV
    CHANGES IN THE MEANING OF ENGLISH WORDS     176

    LECTURE V
    CHANGES IN THE SPELLING OF ENGLISH WORDS    212

    INDEX                                       257

ENGLISH PAST AND PRESENT

I

ENGLISH A COMPOSITE LANGUAGE

“A very slight acquaintance with the history of our own language will teach us that the speech
of Chaucer’s age is not the speech of Skelton’s, that there is a great difference between the
language under Elizabeth and that under Charles the First, between that under Charles the First
and Charles the Second, between that under Charles the Second and Queen Anne; that considerable
changes had taken place between the beginning and the middle of the last century, and that
Johnson and Fielding did not write altogether as we do now. For in the course of a nation’s
progress new ideas are evermore mounting above the horizon, while others are lost sight of
and sink below it: others again change their form and aspect: others which seemed united, split
into parts. And as it is with ideas, so it is with their symbols, words. New ones are perpetually
coined to meet the demand of an advanced understanding, of new feelings that have sprung out
of the decay of old ones, of ideas that have shot forth from the summit of the tree of our
knowledge; old words meanwhile fall into disuse and become obsolete; others have their meaning
narrowed and defined; synonyms diverge from each other and their property is parted between
them; nay, whole classes of words will now and then be thrown overboard, as new feelings or
perceptions of analogy gain ground. A history of the language in which all these vicissitudes
should be pointed out, in which the introduction of every new word should be noted, so far
as it is possible--and much may be done in this way by laborious and diligent and judicious
research--in which such words as have become obsolete should be followed down to their final
extinction, in which all the most remarkable words should be traced through their successive
phases of meaning, and in which moreover the causes and occasions of these changes should be
explained, such a work would not only abound in entertainment, but would throw more light on
the development of the human mind than all the brainspun systems of metaphysics that ever were
written”.

       *       *       *       *       *

These words, which thus far are not my own, but the words of a greatly honoured friend and
teacher, who, though we behold him now no more, still teaches, and will teach, by the wisdom
of his writings, and the nobleness of his life (they are words of Archdeacon Hare), I have
put in the forefront of my lectures; seeing that they anticipate in the way of masterly sketch
all which I shall attempt to accomplish, and indeed draw out the lines of much more, to which
I shall not venture so much as to put my hand. They are the more welcome to me, because they
encourage me to believe that if, in choosing the English language, its past and its present,
as the subject of that brief course of lectures which I am to deliver in this place, I have
chosen a subject which in many ways transcends my powers, and lies beyond the range of my knowledge,
it is yet one in itself of deepest interest, and of fully recognized value. Nor can I refrain
from hoping that even with my imperfect handling, it is an argument which will find an answer
and an echo in the hearts of all who hear me; which would have found this at any time; which
will do so especially at the present. For these are times which naturally rouse into liveliest
activity all our latent affections for the land of our birth. It is one of the compensations,
indeed the greatest of all, for the wastefulness, the woe, the cruel losses of war{1}, that
it causes and indeed compels a people to know itself a people; leading each one to esteem and
prize most that which he has in common with his fellow countrymen, and not now any longer those
things which separate and divide him from them.

{Sidenote: Love of our own Tongue}

And the love of our own language, what is it in fact, but the love of our country expressing
itself in one particular direction? If the great acts of that nation to which we belong are
precious to us, if we feel ourselves made greater by their greatness, summoned to a nobler
life by the nobleness of Englishmen who have already lived and died, and have bequeathed to
us a name which must not by us be made less, what exploits of theirs can well be nobler, what
can more clearly point out their native land and ours as having fulfilled a glorious past,
as being destined for a glorious future, than that they should have acquired for themselves
and for those who come after them a clear, a strong, an harmonious, a noble language? For all
this bears witness to corresponding merits in those that speak it, to clearness of mental vision,
to strength, to harmony, to nobleness in them that have gradually formed and shaped it to be
the utterance of their inmost life and being.

To know of this language, the stages which it has gone through, the sources from which its
riches have been derived, the gains which it is now making, the perils which have threatened
or are threatening it, the losses which it has sustained, the capacities which may be yet latent
in it, waiting to be evoked, the points in which it transcends other tongues, in which it comes
short of them, all this may well be the object of worthy ambition to every one of us. So may
we hope to be ourselves guardians of its purity, and not corrupters of it; to introduce, it
may be, others into an intelligent knowledge of that, with which we shall have ourselves more
than a merely superficial acquaintance; to bequeath it to those who come after us not worse
than we received it ourselves. “Spartam nactus es; hanc exorna”,--this should be our motto
in respect at once of our country, and of our country’s tongue.

{Sidenote: Duty to our own Tongue}

Nor shall we, I trust, any of us feel this subject to be alien or remote from the purposes
which have brought us to study within these walls. It is true that we are mainly occupied here
in studying other tongues than our own. The time we bestow upon it is small as compared with
that bestowed on those others. And yet one of our main purposes in learning them is that we
may better understand this. Nor ought any other to dispute with it the first and foremost place
in our reverence, our gratitude, and our love. It has been well and worthily said by an illustrious
German scholar: “The care of the national language I consider as at all times a sacred trust
and a most important privilege of the higher orders of society. Every man of education should
make it the object of his unceasing concern, to preserve his language pure and entire, to speak
it, so far as is in his power, in all its beauty and perfection.... A nation whose language
becomes rude and barbarous, must be on the brink of barbarism in regard to everything else.
A nation which allows her language to go to ruin, is parting with the last half of her intellectual
independence, and testifies her willingness to cease to exist”{2}.

But this knowledge, like all other knowledge which is worth attaining, is only to be attained
at the price of labour and pains. The language which at this day we speak is the result of
processes which have been going forward for hundreds and for thousands of years. Nay more,
it is not too much to affirm that processes modifying the English which at the present day
we write and speak have been at work from the first day that man, being gifted with discourse
of reason, projected his thought from out himself, and embodied and contemplated it in his
word. Which things being so, if we would understand this language as it now is, we must know
something of it as it has been; we must be able to measure, however roughly, the forces, which
have been at work upon it, moulding and shaping it into the forms which it now wears.

At the same time various prudential considerations must determine for us how far up we will
endeavour to trace the course of its history. There are those who may seek to trace our language
to the forests of Germany and Scandinavia, to investigate its relation to all the kindred tongues
that were there spoken; again, to follow it up, till it and they are seen descending from an
elder stock; nor once to pause, till they have assigned to it its place not merely in respect
of that small group of languages which are immediately round it, but in respect of all the
tongues and languages of the earth. I can imagine few studies of a more surpassing interest
than this. Others, however, must be content with seeking such insight into their native language
as may be within the reach of all who, unable to make this the subject of especial research,
possessing neither that vast compass of knowledge, nor that immense apparatus of books, not
being at liberty to dedicate to it that devotion almost of a life which, followed out to the
full, it would require, have yet an intelligent interest in their mother tongue, and desire
to learn as much of its growth and history and construction as may be reasonably deemed within
their reach. To such as these I shall suppose myself to be speaking. It would be a piece of
great presumption in me to undertake to speak to any other, or to assume any other ground than
this for myself.

{Sidenote: The Past explains the Present}

I know there are some, who, when they are invited to enter at all upon the past history of
the language, are inclined to make answer--“To what end such studies to us? Why cannot we leave
them to a few antiquaries and grammarians? Sufficient to us to know the laws of our present
English, to obtain an accurate acquaintance with the language as we now find it, without concerning
ourselves with the phases through which it has previously past”. This may sound plausible enough;
and I can quite understand a real lover of his native tongue, who has not bestowed much thought
upon the subject, arguing in this manner. And yet indeed such argument proceeds altogether
on a mistake. One sufficient reason why we should occupy ourselves with the past of our language
is, because the present is only intelligible in the light of the past, often of a very remote
past indeed. There are anomalies out of number now existing in our language, which the pure
logic of grammar is quite incapable of explaining; which nothing but a knowledge of its historic
evolutions, and of the disturbing forces which have made themselves felt therein, will ever
enable us to understand. Even as, again, unless we possess some knowledge of the past, it is
impossible that we can ourselves advance a single step in the unfolding of the latent capabilities
of the language, without the danger of committing some barbarous violation of its very primary
laws.

       *       *       *       *       *

The plan which I have laid down for myself, and to which I shall adhere, in this lecture and
in those which will succeed it, is as follows. In this my first lecture I will ask you to consider
the language as now it is, to decompose with me some specimens of it, to prove by these means,
of what elements it is compact, and what functions in it these elements or component parts
severally fulfil; nor shall I leave this subject without asking you to admire the happy marriage
in our tongue of the languages of the north and south, an advantage which it alone among all
the languages of Europe enjoys. Having thus presented to ourselves the body which we wish to
submit to scrutiny, and having become acquainted, however slightly, with its composition, I
shall invite you to go back with me, and trace some of the leading changes to which in time
past it has been submitted, and through which it has arrived at what it now is; and these changes
I shall contemplate under four aspects, dedicating a lecture to each;--changes which have resulted
from the birth of new, or the reception of foreign, words;--changes consequent on the rejection
or extinction of words or powers once possessed by the language;--changes through the altered
meaning of words;--and lastly, as not unworthy of our attention, but often growing out of very
deep roots, changes in the orthography of words.

{Sidenote: Alterations unobserved}

I shall everywhere seek to bring the subject down to our present time, and not merely call
your attention to the changes which have been, but to those also which are now being, effected.
I shall not account the fact that some are going on, so to speak, before our own eyes, a sufficient
ground to excuse me from noticing them, but rather an additional reason for doing this. For
indeed changes which are actually proceeding in our own time, and which we are ourselves helping
to bring about, are the very ones which we are most likely to fail in observing. There is so
much to hide the nature of them, and indeed their very existence, that, except it may be by
a very few, they will often pass wholly unobserved. Loud and sudden revolutions attract and
compel notice; but silent and gradual, although with issues far vaster in store, run their
course, and it is only when their cycle is completed or nearly so, that men perceive what mighty
transforming forces have been at work unnoticed in the very midst of themselves.

Thus, to apply what I have just affirmed to this matter of language--how few aged persons,
let them retain the fullest possession of their faculties, are conscious of any difference
between the spoken language of their early youth, and that of their old age; that words and
ways of using words are obsolete now, which were usual then; that many words are current now,
which had no existence at that time. And yet it is certain that so it must be. A man may fairly
be supposed to remember clearly and well for sixty years back; and it needs less than five
of these sixties to bring us to the period of Spenser, and not more than eight to set us in
the time of Chaucer and Wiclif. How great a change, what vast modifications in our language,
within eight memories. No one, contemplating this whole term, will deny the immensity of the
change. For all this, we may be tolerably sure that, had it been possible to interrogate a
series of eight persons, such as together had filled up this time, intelligent men, but men
whose attention had not been especially roused to this subject, each in his turn would have
denied that there had been any change worth speaking of, perhaps any change at all, during
his lifetime. And yet, having regard to the multitude of words which have fallen into disuse
during these four or five hundred years, we are sure that there must have been some lives in
this chain which saw those words in use at their commencement, and out of use before their
close. And so too, of the multitude of words which have sprung up in this period, some, nay,
a vast number, must have come into being within the limits of each of these lives. It cannot
then be superfluous to direct attention to that which is actually going forward in our language.
It is indeed that, which of all is most likely to be unobserved by us.

       *       *       *       *       *

With these preliminary remarks I proceed at once to the special subject of my lecture of to-day.
And first, starting from the recognized fact that the English is not a simple but a composite
language, made up of several elements, as are the people who speak it, I would suggest to you
the profit and instruction which we might derive from seeking to resolve it into its component
parts--from taking, that is, any passage of an English author, distributing the words of which
it is made up according to the languages from which they are drawn; estimating the relative
numbers and proportions, which these languages have severally lent us; as well as the character
of the words which they have thrown into the common stock of our tongue.

{Sidenote: Proportions in English}

Thus, suppose the English language to be divided into a hundred parts; of these, to make a
rough distribution, sixty would be Saxon; thirty would be Latin (including of course the Latin
which has come to us through the French); five would be Greek. We should thus have assigned
ninety-five parts, leaving the other five, perhaps too large a residue, to be divided among
all the other languages from which we have adopted isolated words{3}. And yet these are not
few; from our wide extended colonial empire we come in contact with half the world; we have
picked up words in every quarter, and, the English language possessing a singular power of
incorporating foreign elements into itself, have not scrupled to make many of these our own{4}.

{Sidenote: Oriental Words}

Thus we have a certain number of Hebrew words, mostly, if not entirely, belonging to religious
matters, as ‘amen’, ‘cabala’, ‘cherub’, ‘ephod’, ‘gehenna’, ‘hallelujah’, ‘hosanna’, ‘jubilee’,
‘leviathan’, ‘manna’, ‘Messiah’, ‘sabbath’, ‘Satan’, ‘seraph’, ‘shibboleth’, ‘talmud’. The
Arabic words in our language are more numerous; we have several arithmetical and astronomical
terms, as ‘algebra’, ‘almanack’, ‘azimuth’, ‘cypher’{5}, ‘nadir’, ‘talisman’, ‘zenith’, ‘zero’;
and chemical, for the Arabs were the chemists, no less than the astronomers and arithmeticians
of the middle ages; as ‘alcohol’, ‘alembic’, ‘alkali’, ‘elixir’. Add to these the names of
animals, plants, fruits, or articles of merchandize first introduced by them to the notice
of Western Europe; as ‘amber’, ‘artichoke’, ‘barragan’, ‘camphor’, ‘coffee’, ‘cotton’, ‘crimson’,
‘gazelle’, ‘giraffe’, ‘jar’, ‘jasmin’, ‘lake’ (lacca), ‘lemon’, ‘lime’, ‘lute’, ‘mattress’,
‘mummy’, ‘saffron’, ‘sherbet’, ‘shrub’, ‘sofa’, ‘sugar’, ‘syrup’, ‘tamarind’; and some further
terms, ‘admiral’, ‘amulet’, ‘arsenal’, ‘assassin’, ‘barbican’, ‘caliph’, ‘caffre’, ‘carat’,
‘divan’, ‘dragoman’{6}, ‘emir’, ‘fakir’, ‘firman’, ‘harem’, ‘hazard’, ‘houri’, ‘magazine’,
‘mamaluke’, ‘minaret’, ‘monsoon’, ‘mosque’, ‘nabob’, ‘razzia’, ‘sahara’, ‘simoom’, ‘sirocco’,
‘sultan’, ‘tarif’, ‘vizier’; and I believe we shall have nearly completed the list. We have
moreover a few Persian words, as ‘azure’, ‘bazaar’, ‘bezoar’, ‘caravan’, ‘caravanserai’, ‘chess’,
‘dervish’, ‘lilac’, ‘orange’, ‘saraband’, ‘taffeta’, ‘tambour’, ‘turban’; this last appearing
in strange forms at its first introduction into the language, thus ‘tolibant’ (Puttenham),
‘tulipant’ (Herbert’s Travels), ‘turribant’ (Spenser), ‘turbat’, ‘turbant’, and at length ‘turban’.
We have also a few Turkish, such as ‘chouse’, ‘janisary’, ‘odalisque’, ‘sash’, ‘tulip’{7}.
Of ‘civet’{8} and ‘scimitar’{9} I believe it can only be asserted that they are Eastern. The
following are Hindostanee, ‘avatar’, ‘bungalow’, ‘calico’, ‘chintz’, ‘cowrie’, ‘lac’, ‘muslin’,
‘punch’, ‘rupee’, ‘toddy’. ‘Tea’, or ‘tcha’, as it was spelt at first, of course is Chinese,
so too are ‘junk’ and ‘satin’{10}.

The New World has given us a certain number of words, Indian and other--‘cacique’ (‘cassique’,
in Ralegh’s Guiana), ‘canoo’, ‘chocolate’, ‘cocoa’{11}, ‘condor’, ‘hamoc’ (‘hamaca’ in Ralegh),
‘jalap’, ‘lama’, ‘maize’ (Haytian), ‘pampas’, ‘pemmican’, ‘potato’ (‘batata’ in our earlier
voyagers), ‘raccoon’, ‘sachem’, ‘squaw’, ‘tobacco’, ‘tomahawk’, ‘tomata’ (Mexican), ‘wigwam’.
If ‘hurricane’ is a word which Europe originally obtained from the Caribbean islanders{12},
it should of course be included in this list{13}. A certain number of words also we have received,
one by one, from various languages, which sometimes have not bestowed on us more than this
single one. Thus ‘hussar’ is Hungarian; ‘caloyer’, Romaic; ‘mammoth’, of some Siberian language;{14}
‘tattoo’, Polynesian; ‘steppe’, Tartarian; ‘sago’, ‘bamboo’, ‘rattan’, ‘ourang outang’, are
all, I believe, Malay words; ‘assegai’{15} ‘zebra’, ‘chimpanzee’, ‘fetisch’, belong to different
African dialects; the last, however, having reached Europe through the channel of the Portuguese{16}.

{Sidenote: Italian Words}

{Sidenote: Spanish, Dutch and Celtic Words}

To come nearer home--we have a certain number of Italian words, as ‘balcony’, ‘baldachin’,
‘balustrade’, ‘bandit’, ‘bravo’, ‘bust’ (it was ‘busto’ as first used in English, and therefore
from the Italian, not from the French), ‘cameo’, ‘canto’, ‘caricature’, ‘carnival’, ‘cartoon’,
‘charlatan’, ‘concert’, ‘conversazione’, ‘cupola’, ‘ditto’, ‘doge’, ‘domino’{17}, ‘felucca’,
‘fresco’, ‘gazette’, ‘generalissimo’, ‘gondola’, ‘gonfalon’, ‘grotto’, (‘grotta’ is the earliest
form in which we have it in English), ‘gusto’, ‘harlequin’{18}, ‘imbroglio’, ‘inamorato’, ‘influenza’,
‘lava’, ‘malaria’, ‘manifesto’, ‘masquerade’ (‘mascarata’ in Hacket), ‘motto’, ‘nuncio’, ‘opera’,
‘oratorio’, ‘pantaloon’, ‘parapet’, ‘pedantry’, ‘pianoforte’, ‘piazza’, ‘portico’, ‘proviso’,
‘regatta’, ‘ruffian’, ‘scaramouch’, ‘sequin’, ‘seraglio’, ‘sirocco’, ‘sonnet’, ‘stanza’, ‘stiletto’,
‘stucco’, ‘studio’, ‘terra-cotta’, ‘umbrella’, ‘virtuoso’, ‘vista’, ‘volcano’, ‘zany’. ‘Becco’,
and ‘cornuto’, ‘fantastico’, ‘magnifico’, ‘impress’ (the armorial device upon shields, and
appearing constantly in its Italian form ‘impresa’), ‘saltimbanco’ (=mountebank), all once
common enough, are now obsolete. Sylvester uses often ‘farfalla’ for butterfly, but, as far
as I know, this use is peculiar to him. If these are at all the whole number of our Italian
words, and I cannot call to mind any other, the Spanish in the language are nearly as numerous;
nor indeed would it be wonderful if they were more so; our points of contact with Spain, friendly
and hostile, have been much more real than with Italy. Thus we have from the Spanish ‘albino’,
‘alligator’ (el lagarto), ‘alcove’{19}, ‘armada’, ‘armadillo’, ‘barricade’, ‘bastinado’, ‘bravado’,
‘caiman’, ‘cambist’, ‘camisado’, ‘carbonado’, ‘cargo’, ‘cigar’, ‘cochineal’, ‘Creole’, ‘desperado’,
‘don’, ‘duenna’, ‘eldorado’, ‘embargo’, ‘flotilla’, ‘gala’, ‘grandee’, ‘grenade’, ‘guerilla’,
‘hooker’{20}, ‘infanta’, ‘jennet’, ‘junto’, ‘merino’, ‘mosquito’, ‘mulatto’, ‘negro’, ‘olio’,
‘ombre’, ‘palaver’, ‘parade’, ‘parasol’, ‘parroquet’, ‘peccadillo’, ‘picaroon’, ‘platina’,
‘poncho’, ‘punctilio’, (for a long time spelt ‘puntillo’, in English books), ‘quinine’, ‘reformado’,
‘savannah’, ‘serenade’, ‘sherry’, ‘stampede’, ‘stoccado’, ‘strappado’, ‘tornado’, ‘vanilla’,
‘verandah’. ‘Buffalo’ also is Spanish; ‘buff’ or ‘buffle’ being the proper English word; ‘caprice’
too we probably obtained rather from Spain than Italy, as we find it written ‘capricho’ by
those who used it first. Other Spanish words, once familiar, are now extinct. ‘Punctilio’ lives
on, but not ‘punto’, which occurs in Bacon. ‘Privado’, signifying a prince’s favourite, one
admitted to his privacy (no uncommon word in Jeremy Taylor and Fuller), has quite disappeared;
so too has ‘quirpo’ (cuerpo), the name given to a jacket fitting close to the body; ‘quellio’
(cuello), a ruff or neck-collar; and ‘matachin’, the title of a sword-dance; these are all
frequent in our early dramatists; and ‘flota’ was the constant name of the treasure-fleet from
the Indies. ‘Intermess’ is employed by Evelyn, and is the Spanish ‘entremes’, though not recognized
as such in our dictionaries. ‘Mandarin’ and ‘marmalade’ are our only Portuguese words I can
call to mind. A good many of our sea-terms are Dutch, as ‘sloop’, ‘schooner’, ‘yacht’, ‘boom’,
‘skipper’, ‘tafferel’, ‘to smuggle’; ‘to wear’, in the sense of veer, as when we say ‘to wear
a ship’; ‘skates’, too, and ‘stiver’, are Dutch. Celtic things are for the most part designated
among us by Celtic words; such as ‘bard’, ‘kilt’, ‘clan’, ‘pibroch’, ‘plaid’, ‘reel’. Nor only
such as these, which are all of them comparatively of modern introduction, but a considerable
number, how large a number is yet a very unsettled question, of words which at a much earlier
date found admission into our tongue, are derived from this quarter.

Now, of course, I have no right to presume that any among us are equipped with that knowledge
of other tongues, which shall enable us to detect of ourselves and at once the nationality
of all or most of the words which we may meet--some of them greatly disguised, and having undergone
manifold transformations in the process of their adoption among us; but only that we have such
helps at command in the shape of dictionaries and the like, and so much diligence in their
use, as will enable us to discover the quarter from which the words we may encounter have reached
us; and I will confidently say that few studies of the kind will be more fruitful, will suggest
more various matter of reflection, will more lead you into the secrets of the English tongue,
than an analysis of a certain number of passages drawn from different authors, such as I have
just now proposed. For this analysis you will take some passage of English verse or prose--say
the first ten lines of Paradise Lost--or the Lord’s Prayer--or the 23rd Psalm; you will distribute
the whole body of words contained in that passage, of course not omitting the smallest, according
to their nationalities--writing, it may be, A over every Anglo-Saxon word, L over every Latin,
and so on with the others, if any other should occur in the portion which you have submitted
to this examination. When this is done, you will count up the number of those which each language
contributes; again, you will note the character of the words derived from each quarter.

{Sidenote: Two Shapes of Words}

Yet here, before I pass further, I would observe in respect of those which come from the Latin,
that it will be desirable further to mark whether they are directly from it, and such might
be marked L¹, or only mediately from it, and to us directly from the French, which would be
L², or L at second hand--our English word being only in the second generation descended from
the Latin, not the child, but the child’s child. There is a rule that holds pretty constantly
good, by which you may determine this point. It is this,--that if a word be directly from the
Latin, it will not have undergone any alteration or modification in its form and shape, save
only in the termination--‘innocentia’ will have become ‘innocency’, ‘natio’ will have become
‘nation’, ‘firmamentum’ ‘firmament’, but nothing more. On the other hand, if it comes through
the French, it will generally be considerably altered in its passage. It will have undergone
a process of lubrication; its sharply defined Latin outline will in good part have departed
from it; thus ‘crown’ is from ‘corona’, but though ‘couronne’, and itself a dissyllable, ‘coroune’,
in our earlier English; ‘treasure’ is from ‘thesaurus’, but through ‘trésor’; ‘emperor’ is
the Latin ‘imperator’, but it was first ‘empereur’. It will often happen that the substantive
has past through this process, having reached us through the intervention of the French; while
we have only felt at a later period our want of the adjective also, which we have proceeded
to borrow direct from the Latin. Thus, ‘people’ is indeed ‘populus’, but it was ‘peuple’ first,
while ‘popular’ is a direct transfer of a Latin vocable into our English glossary. So too ‘enemy’
is ‘inimicus’, but it was first softened in the French, and had its Latin physiognomy to a
great degree obliterated, while ‘inimical’ is Latin throughout; ‘parish’ is ‘paroisse’, but
‘parochial’ is ‘parochialis’; ‘chapter’ is ‘chapitre’, but ‘capitular’ is ‘capitularis’.

{Sidenote: Doublets}

Sometimes you will find in English what I may call the double adoption of a Latin word; which
now makes part of our vocabulary in two shapes; ‘doppelgängers’ the Germans would call such
words{21}. There is first the elder word, which the French has given us; but which, before
it gave, it had fashioned and moulded, cutting it short, it may be, by a syllable or more,
for the French devours letters and syllables; and there is the later word which we borrowed
immediately from the Latin. I will mention a few examples; ‘secure’ and ‘sure’, both from ‘securus’,
but one directly, the other through the French; ‘fidelity’ and ‘fealty’, both from ‘fidelitas’,
but one directly, the other at second-hand; ‘species’ and ‘spice’, both from ‘species’, spices
being properly only kinds of aromatic drugs; ‘blaspheme’ and ‘blame’, both from ‘blasphemare’{22},
but ‘blame’ immediately from ‘blâmer’. Add to these ‘granary’ and ‘garner’; ‘captain’ (capitaneus)
and ‘chieftain’; ‘tradition’ and ‘treason’; ‘abyss’ and ‘abysm’; ‘regal’ and ‘royal’; ‘legal’
and ‘loyal’; ‘cadence’ and ‘chance’; ‘balsam’ and ‘balm’; ‘hospital’ and ‘hotel’; ‘digit’ and
‘doit’{23}; ‘pagan’ and ‘paynim’; ‘captive’ and ‘caitiff’; ‘persecute’ and ‘pursue’; ‘superficies’
and ‘surface’; ‘faction’ and ‘fashion’; ‘particle’ and ‘parcel’; ‘redemption’ and ‘ransom’;
‘probe’ and ‘prove’; ‘abbreviate’ and ‘abridge’; ‘dormitory’ and ‘dortoir’ or ‘dorter’ (this
last now obsolete, but not uncommon in Jeremy Taylor); ‘desiderate’ and ‘desire’; ‘fact’ and
‘feat’; ‘major’ and ‘mayor’; ‘radius’ and ‘ray’; ‘pauper’ and ‘poor’; ‘potion’ and ‘poison’;
‘ration’ and ‘reason’; ‘oration’ and ‘orison’{24}. I have, in the instancing of these named
always the Latin form before the French; but the reverse I suppose in every instance is the
order in which the words were adopted by us; we had ‘pursue’ before ‘persecute’, ‘spice’ before
‘species’, ‘royalty’ before ‘regality’, and so with the others{25}.

The explanation of this greater change which the earlier form of the word has undergone, is
not far to seek. Words which have been introduced into a language at an early period, when
as yet writing is rare, and books are few or none, when therefore orthography is unfixed, or
being purely phonetic, cannot properly be said to exist at all, such words for a long while
live orally on the lips of men, before they are set down in writing; and out of this fact it
is that we shall for the most part find them reshaped and remoulded by the people who have
adopted them, entirely assimilated to their language in form and termination, so as in a little
while to be almost or quite indistinguishable from natives. On the other hand a most effectual
check to this process, a process sometimes barbarizing and defacing, however it may be the
only one which will make the newly brought in entirely homogeneous with the old and already
existing, is imposed by the existence of a much written language and a full formed literature.
The foreign word, being once adopted into these, can no longer undergo a thorough transformation.
For the most part the utmost which use and familiarity can do with it now, is to cause the
gradual dropping of the foreign termination. Yet this too is not unimportant; it often goes
far to making a home for a word, and hindering it from wearing the appearance of a foreigner
and stranger{26}.

{Sidenote: Analysis of English}

But to return from this digression--I said just now that you would learn very much from observing
and calculating the proportions in which the words of one descent and those of another occur
in any passage which you analyse. Thus examine the Lord’s Prayer. It consists of exactly seventy
words. You will find that only the following six claim the rights of Latin citizenship--‘trespasses’,
‘trespass’, ‘temptation’, ‘deliver’, ‘power’, ‘glory’. Nor would it be very difficult to substitute
for any one of these a Saxon word. Thus for ‘trespasses’ might be substituted ‘sins’; for ‘deliver’
‘free’; for ‘power’ ‘might’; for ‘glory’ ‘brightness’; which would only leave ‘temptation’,
about which there could be the slightest difficulty, and ‘trials’, though we now ascribe to
the word a somewhat different sense, would in fact exactly correspond to it. This is but a
small percentage, six words in seventy, or less than ten in the hundred; and we often light
upon a still smaller proportion. Here are forty-five words, and only the three in italics are
Latin; and for every one of these too it would be easy to substitute a word of Saxon origin;
little more, that is, than the proportion of seven in the hundred; while, still stronger than
this, in five verses out of Genesis, containing one hundred and thirty words, there are only
five not Saxon, less, that is, than four in the hundred.

Shall we therefore conclude that these are the proportions in which the Anglo-Saxon and Latin
elements of the language stand to one another? If they are so, then my former proposal to express
their relations by sixty and thirty was greatly at fault; and seventy and twenty, or even eighty
and ten, would fall short of adequately representing the real predominance of the Saxon over
the Latin element of the language. But it is not so; the Anglo-Saxon words by no means outnumber
the Latin in the degree which the analysis of those passages would seem to imply. It is not
that there are so many more Anglo-Saxon words, but that the words which there are, being words
of more primary necessity, do therefore so much more frequently recur. The proportions which
the analysis of the dictionary that is, of the language at rest, would furnish, are very different
from these which I have just instanced, and which the analysis of sentences, or of the language
in motion, gives. Thus if we examine the total vocabulary of the English Bible, not more than
sixty per cent. of the words are native; such are the results which the Concordance gives;
but in the actual translation the native words are from ninety in some passages to ninety-six
in others per cent{27}.

{Sidenote: Anglo-Saxon the Base of English}

The notice of this fact will lead us to some very important conclusions as to the character
of the words which the Saxon and the Latin severally furnish; and principally to this:--that
while the English language is thus compact in the main of these two elements, we must not for
all this regard these two as making, one and the other, exactly the same kind of contributions
to it. On the contrary their contributions are of very different character. The Anglo-Saxon
is not so much, as I have just called it, one element of the English language, as the foundation
of it, the basis. All its joints, its whole articulation, its sinews and its ligaments, the
great body of articles, pronouns, conjunctions, prepositions, numerals, auxiliary verbs, all
smaller words which serve to knit together and bind the larger into sentences, these, not to
speak of the grammatical structure of the language, are exclusively Saxon. The Latin may contribute
its tale of bricks, yea, of goodly and polished hewn stones, to the spiritual building; but
the mortar, with all that holds and binds the different parts of it together, and constitutes
them into a house, is Saxon throughout. I remember Selden in his Table Talk using another comparison;
but to the same effect: “If you look upon the language spoken in the Saxon time, and the language
spoken now, you will find the difference to be just as if a man had a cloak which he wore plain
in Queen Elizabeth’s days, and since, here has put in a piece of red, and there a piece of
blue, and here a piece of green, and there a piece of orange-tawny. We borrow words from the
French, Italian, Latin, as every pedantic man pleases”.

{Sidenote: Composite Languages}

I believe this to be the law which holds good in respect of all composite languages. However
composite they may be, yet they are only so in regard of their words. There may be a medley
in respect of these, some coming from one quarter, some from another; but there is never a
mixture of grammatical forms and inflections. One or other language entirely predominates here,
and everything has to conform and subordinate itself to the laws of this ruling and ascendant
language. The Anglo-Saxon is the ruling language in our present English. Thus while it has
thought good to drop its genders, even so the French substantives which come among us, must
also leave theirs behind them; as in like manner the French verbs must renounce their own conjugations,
and adapt themselves to ours{28}. I believe that a remarkable parallel to this might be found
in the language of Persia, since the conquest of that country by the Arabs. The ancient Persian
religion fell with the government, but the language remained totally unaffected by the revolution,
in its grammatical structure and character. Arabic vocables, the only exotic words in Persian,
are found in numbers varying with the object and quality, style and taste of the writers, but
pages of pure idiomatic Persian may be written without employing a single word from the Arabic.

At the same time the secondary or superinduced language, even while it is quite unable to force
any of its forms on the language which receives its words, may yet compel that to renounce
a portion of its own forms, by the impossibility which is practically found to exist of making
them fit the new comers; and thus it may exert although not a positive, yet a negative, influence
on the grammar of the other tongue. It has been so, as is generally admitted, in the instance
of our own. “When the English language was inundated by a vast influx of French words, few,
if any, French forms were received into its grammar; but the Saxon forms soon dropped away,
because they did not suit the new roots; and the genius of the language, from having to deal
with the newly imported words in a rude state, was induced to neglect the inflections of the
native ones. This for instance led to the introduction of the s as the universal termination
of all plural nouns, which agreed with the usage of the French language, and was not alien
from that of the Saxon, but was merely an extension of the termination of the ancient masculine
to other classes of nouns”{29}.

{Sidenote: The Anglo-Saxon Element}

If you wish to convince yourselves by actual experience, of the fact which I just now asserted,
namely, that the radical constitution of the language is Saxon, I would say, Try to compose
a sentence, let it be only of ten or a dozen words, and the subject entirely of your choice,
employing therein only words which are of a Latin derivation. I venture to say you will find
it impossible, or next to impossible to do it; whichever way you turn, some obstacle will meet
you in the face. And while it is thus with the Latin, whole pages might be written, I do not
say in philosophy or theology or upon any abstruser subject, but on familiar matters of common
everyday life, in which every word should be of Saxon extraction, not one of Latin; and these,
pages in which, with the exercise of a little patience and ingenuity, all appearance of awkwardness
and constraint should be avoided, so that it should never occur to the reader, unless otherwise
informed, that the writer had submitted himself to this restraint and limitation in the words
which he employed, and was only drawing them from one section of the English language. Sir
Thomas Browne has given several long paragraphs so constructed. Take for instance the following,
which is only a little fragment of one of them: “The first and foremost step to all good works
is the dread and fear of the Lord of heaven and earth, which through the Holy Ghost enlighteneth
the blindness of our sinful hearts to tread the ways of wisdom, and lead our feet into the
land of blessing”{30}. This is not stiffer than the ordinary English of his time. I would suggest
to you at your leisure to make these two experiments; you will find it, I think, exactly as
I have here affirmed.

While thus I bring before you the fact that it would be quite possible to write English, forgoing
altogether the use of the Latin portion of the language, I would not have you therefore to
conclude that this portion of the language is of little value, or that we could draw from the
resources of our Teutonic tongue efficient substitutes for all the words which it has contributed
to our glossary. I am persuaded that we could not; and, if we could, that it would not be desirable.
I mention this, because there is sometimes a regret expressed that we have not kept our language
more free from the admixture of Latin, a suggestion made that we should even now endeavour
to keep under the Latin element of it, and as little as possible avail ourselves of it. I remember
Lord Brougham urging upon the students at Glasgow as a help to writing good English, that they
should do their best to rid their diction of long-tailed words in ‘osity’ and ‘ation’{31}.
He plainly intended to indicate by this phrase all learned Latin words, or words derived from
the Latin. This exhortation is by no means superfluous; for doubtless there were writers of
a former age, Samuel Johnson in the last century, Henry More and Sir Thomas Browne in the century
preceding, who gave undue preponderance to the learned, or Latin, portion in our language;
and very much of its charm, of its homely strength and beauty, of its most popular and truest
idioms, would have perished from it, had they succeeded in persuading others to write as they
had written.

{Sidenote: Anglo-Saxon Aboriginal}

But for all this we could almost as ill spare this side of the language as the other. It represents
and supplies needs not less real than the other does. Philosophy and science and the arts of
a high civilization find their utterance in the Latin words of our language, or, if not in
the Latin, in the Greek, which for present purposes may be grouped with them. How they should
have found utterance in the speech of rude tribes, which, never having cultivated the things,
must needs have been without the words which should express those things. Granting too that,
cœteris paribus, when a Latin and a Saxon word offer themselves to our choice, we shall generally
do best to employ the Saxon, to speak of ‘happiness’ rather than ‘felicity’, ‘almighty’ rather
than ‘omnipotent’, a ‘forerunner’ rather than a ‘precursor’, still these latter must be regarded
as much denizens in the language as the former, no alien interlopers, but possessing the rights
of citizenship as fully as the most Saxon word of them all. One part of the language is not
to be favoured at the expense of the other; the Saxon at the cost of the Latin, as little as
the Latin at the cost of the Saxon. “Both are indispensable; and speaking generally without
stopping to distinguish as to subject, both are equally indispensable. Pathos, in situations
which are homely, or at all connected with domestic affections, naturally moves by Saxon words.
Lyrical emotion of every kind, which (to merit the name of lyrical) must be in the state of
flux and reflux, or, generally, of agitation, also requires the Saxon element of our language.
And why? Because the Saxon is the aboriginal element; the basis and not the superstructure:
consequently it comprehends all the ideas which are natural to the heart of man and to the
elementary situations of life. And although the Latin often furnishes us with duplicates of
these ideas, yet the Saxon, or monosyllabic part, has the advantage of precedency in our use
and knowledge; for it is the language of the nursery whether for rich or poor, in which great
philological academy no toleration is given to words in ‘osity’ or ‘ation’. There is therefore
a great advantage, as regards the consecration to our feelings, settled by usage and custom
upon the Saxon strands in the mixed yarn of our native tongue. And universally, this may be
remarked--that wherever the passion of a poem is of that sort which uses, presumes, or postulates
the ideas, without seeking to extend them, Saxon will be the ‘cocoon’ (to speak by the language
applied to silk-worms), which the poem spins for itself. But on the other hand, where the motion
of the feeling is by and through the ideas, where (as in religious or meditative poetry--Young’s,
for instance, or Cowper’s), the pathos creeps and kindles underneath the very tissues of the
thinking, there the Latin will predominate; and so much so that, whilst the flesh, the blood,
and the muscle, will be often almost exclusively Latin, the articulations only, or hinges of
connection, will be the Anglo-Saxon”.

These words which I have just quoted are De Quincey’s--whom I must needs esteem the greatest
living master of our English tongue. And on the same matter Sir Francis Palgrave has expressed
himself thus: “Upon the languages of Teutonic origin the Latin has exercised great influence,
but most energetically on our own. The very early admixture of the Langue d’Oil, the never
interrupted employment of the French as the language of education, and the nomenclature created
by the scientific and literary cultivation of advancing and civilized society, have Romanized
our speech; the warp may be Anglo-Saxon, but the woof is Roman as well as the embroidery, and
these foreign materials have so entered into the texture, that were they plucked out, the web
would be torn to rags, unravelled and destroyed”{32}.

{Sidenote: The English Bible}

I do not know where we could find a happier example of the preservation of the golden mean
in this matter than in our Authorized Version of the Bible. One of the chief among the minor
and secondary blessings which that Version has conferred on the nation or nations drawing spiritual
life from it,--a blessing not small in itself, but only small by comparison with the infinitely
higher blessings whereof it is the vehicle to them,--is the happy wisdom, the instinctive tact,
with which its authors have steered between any futile mischievous attempt to ignore the full
rights of the Latin part of the language on the one side, and on the other any burdening of
their Version with such a multitude of learned Latin terms as should cause it to forfeit its
homely character, and shut up large portions of it from the understanding of plain and unlearned
men. There is a remarkable confession to this effect, to the wisdom, in fact, which guided
them from above, to the providence that overruled their work, an honourable acknowledgement
of the immense superiority in this respect of our English Version over the Romish, made by
one now, unhappily, familiar with the latter, as once he was with our own. Among those who
have recently abandoned the communion of the English Church one has exprest himself in deeply
touching tones of lamentation over all, which in renouncing our translation, he feels himself
to have forgone and lost.

{Sidenote: The Rhemish Bible}

Such are his touching words; and certainly one has only to compare this version of ours with
the Rhemish, and the transcendent excellence of our own reveals itself at once. I am not extolling
now its superior scholarship; its greater freedom from by-ends; as little would I urge the
fact that one translation is from the original Greek, the other from the Latin Vulgate, and
thus the translation of a translation, often reproducing the mistakes of that translation;
but, putting aside all considerations such as these, I speak only here of the superiority of
the diction in which the meaning, be it correct or incorrect, is conveyed to English readers.
Thus I open the Rhemish version at Galatians v. 19, where the long list of the “works of the
flesh”, and of the “fruit of the Spirit”, is given. But what could a mere English reader make
of words such as these--‘impudicity’, ‘ebrieties’, ‘comessations’, ‘longanimity’, all which
occur in that passage? while our Version for ‘ebrieties’ has ‘drunkenness’, for ‘comessations’
has ‘revellings’, and so also for ‘longanimity’ ‘longsuffering’. Or set over against one another
such phrases as these,--in the Rhemish, “the exemplars of the celestials” (Heb. ix. 23), but
in ours, “the patterns of things in the heavens”. Or suppose if, instead of the words we read
at Heb. xiii. 16, namely “To do good and to communicate forget not; for with such sacrifices
God is well pleased”, we read as follows, which are the words of the Rhemish, “Beneficence
and communication do not forget; for with such hosts God is promerited”!--Who does not feel
that if our Version had been composed in such Latin-English as this, had abounded in words
like ‘odible’, ‘suasible’, ‘exinanite’, ‘contristate’, ‘postulations’, ‘coinquinations’, ‘agnition’,
‘zealatour’, all, with many more of the same mint, in the Rhemish Version, our loss would have
been great and enduring, one which would have searched into the whole religious life of our
people, and been felt in the very depths of the national mind{34}?

There was indeed something still deeper than love of sound and genuine English at work in our
Translators, whether they were conscious of it or not, which hindered them from presenting
the Scriptures to their fellow-countrymen dressed out in such a semi-Latin garb as this. The
Reformation, which they were in this translation so mightily strengthening and confirming,
was just a throwing off, on the part of the Teutonic nations, of that everlasting pupilage
in which Rome would have held them; an assertion at length that they were come to full age,
and that not through her, but directly through Christ, they would address themselves unto God.
The use of the Latin language as the language of worship, as the language in which the Scriptures
might alone be read, had been the great badge of servitude, even as the Latin habits of thought
and feeling which it promoted had been the great helps to the continuance of this servitude,
through long ages. It lay deep then in the very nature of their cause that the Reformers should
develop the Saxon, or essentially national, element in the language; while it was just as natural
that the Roman Catholic translators, if they must translate the Scriptures into English at
all, should yet translate them into such English as should bear the nearest possible resemblance
to the Latin Vulgate, which Rome with a very deep wisdom of this world would gladly have seen
as the only one in the hands of the faithful.

{Sidenote: Future of the English Language}

Let me again, however, recur to the fact that what our Reformers did in this matter, they did
without exaggeration; even as they had shown the same wise moderation in still higher matters.
They gave to the Latin side of the language its rights, though they would not suffer it to
encroach upon and usurp those of the Teutonic part of the language. It would be difficult not
to believe, even if many outward signs said not the same, that great things are in store for
the one language of Europe which thus serves as connecting link between the North and the South,
between the languages spoken by the Teutonic nations of the North and by the Romance nations
of the South; which holds on to and partakes of both; which is as a middle term between them{35}.
There are who venture to hope that the English Church, being in like manner double-fronted,
looking on the one side toward Rome, being herself truly Catholic, looking on the other towards
the Protestant communions, being herself also protesting and reforming, may yet in the providence
of God have an important part to play for the reconciling of a divided Christendom. And if
this ever should be so, if, notwithstanding our sins and unworthiness, so blessed a task should
be in store for her, it will not be a small help and assistance thereunto, that the language
in which her mediation will be effected is one wherein both parties may claim their own, in
which neither will feel that it is receiving the adjudication of a stranger, of one who must
be an alien from its deeper thoughts and habits, because an alien from its words, but a language
in which both must recognize very much of that which is deepest and most precious of their own.

{Sidenote: Jacob Grimm on English}

Nor is this prerogative which I have just claimed for our English the mere dream and fancy
of patriotic vanity. The scholar who in our days is most profoundly acquainted with the great
group of the Gothic languages in Europe, and a devoted lover, if ever there was such, of his
native German, I mean Jacob Grimm, has expressed himself very nearly to the same effect, and
given the palm over all to our English in words which you will not grudge to hear quoted, and
with which I shall bring this lecture to a close. After ascribing to our language “a veritable
power of expression, such as perhaps never stood at the command of any other language of men”,
he goes on to say, “Its highly spiritual genius, and wonderfully happy development and condition,
have been the result of a surprisingly intimate union of the two noblest languages in modern
Europe, the Teutonic and the Romance--It is well known in what relation these two stand to
one another in the English tongue; the former supplying in far larger proportion the material
groundwork, the latter the spiritual conceptions. In truth the English language, which by no
mere accident has produced and upborne the greatest and most predominant poet of modern times,
as distinguished from the ancient classical poetry (I can, of course, only mean Shakespeare),
may with all right be called a world-language; and like the English people, appears destined
hereafter to prevail with a sway more extensive even than its present over all the portions
of the globe{36}. For in wealth, good sense, and closeness of structure no other of the languages
at this day spoken deserves to be compared with it--not even our German, which is torn, even
as we are torn, and must first rid itself of many defects, before it can enter boldly into
the lists, as a competitor with the English”{37}.

{FOOTNOTES}

{1} These lectures were first delivered during the Russian War. [See De
    Quincey to the same effect, Works, 1862, vol. iv. pp. vii, 286.]

{2} F. Schlegel, History of Literature, Lecture 10.

{3} [If dictionary words be counted as apart from the spoken language,
    the proportion of the component elements of English is very
    different. M. Müller quotes a calculation which makes the classical
    element about 68 per cent, the Teutonic about 30, and miscellaneous
    about 2 (Science of Language, 8th ed. i, 89). See Skeat,
    Principles of Eng. Etymology, ii, 15 seq., and infra p. 25.]

{4} [What here follows should be compared with the fuller and more
    accurate lists of words borrowed from foreign sources given by Prof.
    Skeat in his larger Etymolog. Dictionary, 759 seq.; and more
    completely in his Principles of Eng. Etymology, 2nd ser. 294-440.]

{5} Yet see J. Grimm, Deutsche Mythologie, p. 985.

{6} The word hardly deserves to be called English, yet in Pope’s time it
    had made some progress toward naturalization. Of a real or pretended
    polyglottist, who might thus have served as an universal
    interpreter, he says:

        “Pity you was not druggerman at Babel”.

    ‘Truckman’, or more commonly ‘truchman’, familiar to all readers of
    our early literature, is only another form of this, one which
    probably has come to us through ‘turcimanno’, the Italian form of
    the word. [See my Folk and their Word-Lore, p. 19].

{7} [‘Tulip’, at first spelt tulipan, is really the same word as
    turban (tulipant just above), which the flower was thought to
    resemble (Persian dulband).]

{8} [Ultimately from the Arabic zabād (N.E.D.).]

{9} [Apparently to be traced to the Persian shim-shír or sham-shír
    (“lion’s-nail”), a crooked sword (Skeat).]

{10} [Rather through the French from low Latin satinus or setinus, a
     fabric made of seta, silk. But Yule holds that it may be from
     Zayton or Zaitun (in Fokien, China), an important emporium of
     Western trade in the Middle Ages (Hobson-Jobson, 602).]

{11} [Probably intended for cacao, which is Mexican. Cocoa, the nut,
     is from Portuguese coco.]

{12} See Washington Irving, Life and Voyages of Columbus, b. 8, c. 9.

{13} [It is from the Haytian Hurakan, the storm-god (The Folk and
     their Word-Lore, 90).]

{14} [From old Russian mammot, whence modern Russian mamant.]

{15} [‘Assagai’ is from the Arabic az- (al-) zaghāyah, ‘the
     zagāyah’, a Berber name for a lance (N.E.D.).]

{16} [This puts the cart before the horse. ‘Fetish’ is really the
     Portuguese word feitiço, artificial, made-up, factitious (Latin
     factitius), applied to African amulets or idols.]

{17} [‘Domino’ is Spanish rather than Italian (Skeat, Principles, ii,
     312).]

{18} [‘Harlequin’ appears to be an older word in French than in Italian
     (ibid.).]

{19} On the question whether this ought to have been included among the
     Arabic, see Diez, Wörterbuch d. Roman. Sprachen, p. 10.

{20} Not in our dictionaries; but a kind of coasting vessel well known
     to seafaring men, the Spanish ‘urca’; thus in Oldys’ Life of
     Raleigh: “Their galleons, galleasses, gallies, urcas, and zabras
     were miserably shattered”.

{21} [A valuable list of such doublets is given by Prof. Skeat in his
     large Etymological Dictionary, p. 772 seq.]

{22} This particular instance of double adoption, of ‘dimorphism’ as
     Latham calls it, ‘dittology’ as Heyse, recurs in Italian,
     ‘bestemmiare’ and ‘biasimare’; and in Spanish, ‘blasfemar’ and
     ‘lastimar’.

{23} [‘Doit’, a small coin (Dutch duit) has no relation to, ‘digit’.
     Was the author thinking of old French doit, a finger, from Latin
     digitus?]

{24} Somewhat different from this, yet itself also curious, is the
     passing of an Anglo-Saxon word in two different forms into English,
     and continuing in both; thus ‘desk’ and ‘dish’, both the
     Anglo-Saxon ‘disc’ [a loan-word from Latin discus, Greek
     diskos] the German ‘tisch’; ‘beech’ and ‘book’, both the
     Anglo-Saxon ‘boc’, our first books being beechen tablets (see
     Grimm, Wörterbuch, s. vv. ‘Buch’, ‘Buche’); ‘girdle’ and
     ‘kirtle’; both of them corresponding to the German ‘gürtel’;
     already in Anglo-Saxon a double spelling, ‘gyrdel’, ‘cyrtel’, had
     prepared for the double words; so too ‘haunch’ and ‘hinge’; ‘lady’
     and ‘lofty’ [these last three instances are not doublets at all,
     being quite unrelated; see Skeat, s. vv.]; ‘shirt’, and ‘skirt’;
     ‘black’ and ‘bleak’; ‘pond’ and ‘pound’; ‘deck’ and ‘thatch’;
     ‘deal’ and ‘dole’; ‘weald’ and ‘wood’†; ‘dew’ and ‘thaw’†;
     ‘wayward’ and ‘awkward’†; ‘dune’ and ‘down’; ‘hood’ and ‘hat’†;
     ‘ghost’ and ‘gust’†; ‘evil’ and ‘ill’†; ‘mouth’ and ‘moth’†;
     ‘hedge’ and ‘hay’.

     [All these suggested doublets which I have obelized must be
     dismissed as untenable.]

{25} We have in the same way double adoptions from the Greek, one
     direct, at least as regards the forms; one modified by its passage
     through some other language; thus, ‘adamant’ and ‘diamond’;
     ‘monastery’ and ‘minster’; ‘scandal’ and ‘slander’; ‘theriac’ and
     ‘treacle’; ‘asphodel’ and ‘daffodil’; ‘presbyter’ and ‘priest’.

{26} The French itself has also a double adoption, or as perhaps we
     should more accurately call it there, a double formation, from the
     Latin, and such as quite bears out what has been said above: one
     going far back in the history of the language, the other belonging
     to a later and more literary period; on which subject there are
     some admirable remarks by Génin, Récréations Philologiques, vol.
     i. pp. 162-66; and see Fuchs, Die Roman. Sprachen, p. 125. Thus
     from ‘separare’ is derived ‘sevrer’, to separate the child from its
     mother’s breast, to wean, but also ‘séparer’, without this special
     sense; from ‘pastor’, ‘pâtre’, a shepherd in the literal, and
     ‘pasteur’ the same in a tropical, sense; from ‘catena’, ‘chaîne’
     and ‘cadène’; from ‘fragilis’, ‘frêle’ and ‘fragile’; from
     ‘pensare’, ‘peser’ and ‘penser’; from ‘gehenna’, ‘gêne’ and
     ‘géhenne’; from ‘captivus’, ‘chétif’ and ‘captif’; from ‘nativus’,
     ‘naïf’ and ‘natif’; from ‘designare’, ‘dessiner’ and ‘designer’;
     from ‘decimare’, ‘dîmer’ and ‘décimer’; from ‘consumere’,
     ‘consommer’ and ‘consumer’; from ‘simulare’, ‘sembler’ and
     ‘simuler’; from the low Latin, ‘disjejunare’, ‘dîner’ and
     ‘déjeûner’; from ‘acceptare’, ‘acheter’ and ‘accepter’; from
     ‘homo’, ‘on’ and ‘homme’; from ‘paganus’, ‘payen’ and ‘paysan’ [the
     latter from ‘pagensis’]; from ‘obedientia’, ‘obéissance’ and
     ‘obédience’; from ‘strictus’, ‘étroit’ and ‘strict’; from
     ‘sacramentum’, ‘serment’ and ‘sacrement’; from ‘ministerium’,
     ‘métier’ and ‘ministère’; from ‘parabola’, ‘parole’ and ‘parabole’;
     from ‘peregrinus’, ‘pélerin’ and ‘pérégrin’; from ‘factio’, ‘façon’
     and ‘faction’, and it has now adopted ‘factio’ in a third shape,
     that is, in our English ‘fashion’; from ‘pietas’, ‘pitié’ and
     ‘piété’; from ‘capitulum’, ‘chapitre’ and ‘capitule’, a botanical
     term. So, too, in Italian, ‘manco’, maimed, and ‘monco’, maimed of
     a hand; ‘rifutáre’, to refute, and ‘rifiutáre’, to refuse; ‘dama’
     and ‘donna’, both forms of ‘domina’.

{27} See Marsh, Manual of the English Language, Engl. Ed. p. 88 seq.

{28} W. Schlegel (Indische Bibliothek, vol. i. p. 284): Coeunt quidem
     paullatim in novum corpus peregrina vocabula, sed grammatica
     linguarum, unde petitæ sunt, ratio perit.

{29} J. Grimm, quoted in The Philological Museum vol. i. p. 667.

{30} Works, vol. iv. p. 202.

{31} [These words are taken from the ‘Whistlecraft’ of John Hookham
     Frere:--

         “Don’t confound the language of the nation
         With long-tail’d words in osity and ation”.

                                 (Works, 1872, vol. 1, p. 206).]

{32} History of Normandy and England, vol. i, p. 78.

{33} [F. W. Faber,] Dublin Review, June, 1853.

{34} There is more on this matter in my book On the Authorized Version
     of the New Testament, pp. 33-35.

{35} See a paper On the Probable Future Position of the English
     Language, by T. Watts, Esq., in the Proceedings of the
     Philological Society, vol. iv, p. 207.

{36} A little more than two centuries ago a poet, himself abundantly
     deserving the title of ‘well-languaged’; which a cotemporary or
     near successor gave him, ventured in some remarkable lines timidly
     to anticipate this.
         Or who can tell for what great work in hand
         The greatness of our style is now ordained?
         What powers it shall bring in, what spirits command,
         What thoughts let out, what humours keep restrained,
         What mischief it may powerfully withstand,
         And what fair ends may thereby be attained”?

{37} Ueber den Ursprung der Sprache, Berlin, 1832, p. 5.

II

GAINS OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE

It is not for nothing that we speak of some languages as living, of others as dead. All spoken
languages may be ranged in the first class; for as men will never consent to use a language
without more or less modifying it in their use, will never so far forgo their own activity
as to leave it exactly where they found it, it will therefore, so long as it is thus the utterance
of human thought and feeling, inevitably show itself alive by many infallible proofs, by motion,
growth, acquisition, loss, progress, and decay. A living language therefore is one which abundantly
deserves this name; for it is one in which, spoken as it is by living men, a vital formative
energy is still at work. It is one which is in course of actual evolution, which, if the life
that animates it be a healthy one, is appropriating and assimilating to itself what it anywhere
finds congenial to its own life, multiplying its resources, increasing its wealth; while at
the same time it is casting off useless and cumbersome forms, dismissing from its vocabulary
words of which it finds no use, rejecting from itself by a re-active energy the foreign and
heterogeneous, which may for a while have been forced upon it. I would not assert that in the
process of all this it does not make mistakes; in the desire to simplify it may let go distinctions
which were not useless, and which it would have been better to retain; the acquisitions which
it makes are very far from being all gains; it sometimes rejects words as worthless, or suffers
words to die out, which were most worthy to have lived. So far as it does this its life is
not perfectly healthy; there are here signs, however remote, of disorganization, decay, and
ultimate death; but still it lives, and even these misgrowths and malformations, the rejection
of this good, the taking up into itself of that ill, all these errors are themselves the utterances
and evidences of life. A dead language is the contrary of all this. It is dead, because books,
and not now any generation of living men, are the guardians of it, and what they guard, they
guard without change. Its course has been completely run, and it is now equally incapable of
gaining and of losing. We may come to know it better; but in itself it is not, and never can
be, other than it was when it ceased from the lips of men.

{Sidenote: English a Living Language}

Our own is, of course, a living language still. It is therefore gaining and losing. It is a
tree in which the vital sap is circulating yet, ascending from the roots into the branches;
and as this works, new leaves are continually being put forth by it, old are dying and dropping
away. I propose for the subject of my present lecture to consider some of the evidences of
this life at work in it still. As I took for the subject of my first lecture the actual proportions
in which the several elements of our composite English are now found in it, and the service
which they were severally called on to perform, so I shall consider in this the sources from
which the English language has enriched its vocabulary, the periods at which it has made the
chief additions to this, the character of the additions which at different periods it has made,
and the motives which induced it to seek them.

I had occasion to mention in that lecture and indeed I dwelt with some emphasis on the fact,
that the core, the radical constitution of our language, is Anglo-Saxon; so that, composite
or mingled as it must be freely allowed to be, it is only such in respect to words, not in
respect of construction, inflexions, or generally its grammatical forms. These are all of one
piece; and whatever of new has come in has been compelled to conform itself to these. The framework
is English; only a part of the filling in is otherwise; and of this filling in, of these its
comparatively more recent accessions, I now propose to speak.

{Sidenote: The Norman Conquest}

The first great augmentation by foreign words of our Saxon vocabulary, setting aside those
which the Danes brought us, was a consequence, although not an immediate one, of the battle
of Hastings, and of the Norman domination which Duke William’s victory established in our land.
And here let me say in respect of that victory, in contradiction to the sentimental regrets
of Thierry and others, and with the fullest acknowledgement of the immediate miseries which
it entailed on the Saxon race, that it was really the making of England; a judgment, it is
true, but a judgment and mercy in one. God never showed more plainly that He had great things
in store for the people which should occupy this English soil, than when He brought hither
that aspiring Norman race. At the same time the actual interpenetration of our Anglo-Saxon
with any large amount of French words did not find place till very considerably later than
this event, however it was a consequence of it. Some French words we find very soon after;
but in the main the two streams of language continued for a long while separate and apart,
even as the two nations remained aloof, a conquering and a conquered, and neither forgetting
the fact.

Time however softened the mutual antipathies. The Norman, after a while shut out from France,
began more and more to feel that England was his home and sphere. The Saxon, recovering little
by little from the extreme depression which had ensued on his defeat, became every day a more
important element of the new English nation which was gradually forming from the coalition
of the two races. His language partook of his elevation. It was no longer the badge of inferiority.
French was no longer the only language in which a gentleman could speak, or a poet sing. At
the same time the Saxon, now passing into the English language, required a vast addition to
its vocabulary, if it were to serve all the needs of those who were willing to employ it now.
How much was there of high culture, how many of the arts of life, of its refined pleasures,
which had been strange to Saxon men, and had therefore found no utterance in Saxon words. All
this it was sought to supply from the French.

We shall not err, I think, if we assume the great period of the incoming of French words into
the English language to have been when the Norman nobility were exchanging their own language
for the English; and I should be disposed with Tyrwhitt to believe that there is much exaggeration
in attributing the large influx of these into English to one man’s influence, namely to Chaucer’s{38}.
Doubtless he did much; he fell in with and furthered a tendency which already prevailed. But
to suppose that the majority of French vocables which he employed in his poems had never been
employed before, had been hitherto unfamiliar to English ears, is to suppose that his poems
must have presented to his contemporaries an absurd patchwork of two languages, and leaves
it impossible to explain how he should at once have become the popular poet of our nation.

{Sidenote: Influence of Chaucer}

That Chaucer largely developed the language in this direction is indeed plain. We have only
to compare his English with that of another great master of the tongue, his contemporary Wiclif,
to perceive how much more his diction is saturated with French words than is that of the Reformer.
We may note too that many which he and others employed, and as it were proposed for admission,
were not finally allowed and received; so that no doubt they went beyond the needs of the language,
and were here in excess{39}. At the same time this can be regarded as no condemnation of their
attempt. It was only by actual experience that it could be proved whether the language wanted
those words or not, whether it could absorb them into itself, and assimilate them with all
that it already was and had; or did not require, and would therefore in due time reject and
put them away. And what happened then will happen in every attempt to transplant on a large
scale the words of one language into another. Some will take root; others will not, but after
a longer or briefer period will wither and die. Thus I observe in Chaucer such French words
as these, ‘misericorde’, ‘malure’ (malheur), ‘penible’, ‘ayel’ (aieul), ‘tas’, ‘gipon’, ‘pierrie’
(precious stones); none of which, and Wiclif’s ‘creansur’ (2 Kings iv. 1) as little, have permanently
won a place in our tongue. For a long time ‘mel’, used often by Sylvester, struggled hard for
a place in the language side by side with honey; ‘roy’ side by side with king; this last quite
obtained one in Scotch. It is curious to mark some of these French adoptions keeping their
ground to a comparatively late day, and yet finally extruded: seeming to have taken firm root,
they have yet withered away in the end. Thus it has been, for example, with ‘egal’ (Puttenham);
with ‘ouvert’, ‘mot’, ‘ecurie’, ‘baston’, ‘gite’ (Holland); with ‘rivage’, ‘jouissance’, ‘noblesse’,
‘tort’ (=wrong), ‘accoil’ (accuellir), ‘sell’ (=saddle), all occurring in Spenser; with ‘to
serr’ (serrer), ‘vive’, ‘reglement’, used all by Bacon; and so with ‘esperance’, ‘orgillous’
(orgueilleux), ‘rondeur’, ‘scrimer’ (=fencer), all in Shakespeare; with ‘amort’ (this also
in Shakespeare){40}, and ‘avie’ (Holland). ‘Maugre’, ‘congie’, ‘devoir’, ‘dimes’, ‘sans’, and
‘bruit’, used often in our Bible, were English once{41}; when we employ them now, it is with
the sense that we are using foreign words. The same is true of ‘dulce’, ‘aigredoulce’ (=soursweet),
of ‘mur’ for wall, of ‘baine’ for bath, of the verb ‘to cass’ (all in Holland), of ‘volupty’
(Sir Thomas Elyot), ‘volunty’ (Evelyn), ‘medisance’ (Montagu), ‘petit’ (South), ‘aveugle’,
‘colline’ (both in State Papers), and ‘eloign’ (Hacket){42}.

We have seen when the great influx of French words took place--that is, from the time of the
Conquest, although scantily and feebly at the first, to that of Chaucer. But with him our literature
and language had made a burst, which they were not able to maintain. He has by Warton been
well compared to some warm bright day in the very early spring, which seems to say that the
winter is over and gone; but its promise is deceitful; the full bursting and blossoming of
the springtime are yet far off. That struggle with France which began so gloriously, but ended
so disastrously, even with the loss of our whole ill-won dominion there, the savagery of our
wars of the Roses, wars which were a legacy bequeathed to us by that unrighteous conquest,
leave a huge gap in our literary history, nearly a century during which very little was done
for the cultivation of our native tongue, during which it could have made few important accessions
to its wealth.

{Sidenote: Latin Importation}

The period however is notable as being that during which for the first time we received a large
accession of Latin words. There was indeed already a small settlement of these, for the most
part ecclesiastical, which had long since found their home in the bosom of the Anglo-Saxon
itself, and had been entirely incorporated into it. The fact that we had received our Christianity
from Rome, and that Latin was the constant language of the Church, sufficiently explains the
incoming of these. Such were ‘monk’, ‘bishop’ (I put them in their present shapes, and do not
concern myself whether they were originally Greek or no; they reached us as Latin); ‘provost’,
‘minster’, ‘cloister’, ‘candle’, ‘psalter’, ‘mass’, and the names of certain foreign animals,
as ‘camel’, or plants or other productions, as ‘pepper’, ‘fig’; which are all, with slightly
different orthography, Anglo-Saxon words. These, however, were entirely exceptional, and stood
to the main body of the language not as the Romance element of it does now to the Gothic, one
power over against another, but as the Spanish or Italian or Arabic words in it now stand to
the whole present body of the language--and could not be affirmed to affect it more.

So soon however as French words were imported largely, as I have just observed, into the language,
and were found to coalesce kindly with the native growths, this very speedily suggested, as
indeed it alone rendered possible, the going straight to the Latin, and drawing directly from
it; and thus in the hundred years which followed Chaucer a large amount of Latin found its
way, if not into our speech, yet at all events into our books--words which were not brought
through the French, for they are not, and have not at any time been, French, but yet words
which would never have been introduced into English, if their way had not been prepared, if
the French already domesticated among us had not bridged over, as it were, the gulf, that would
have otherwise been too wide between them and the Saxon vocables of our tongue.

In this period, a period of great depression of the national spirit, we may trace the attempt
at a pedantic latinization of English quite as clearly at work as at later periods, subsequent
to the revival of learning. It was now that a crop of such words as ‘facundious’, ‘tenebrous’,
‘solacious’, ‘pulcritude’, ‘consuetude’ (all these occur in Hawes), with many more, long since
rejected by the language, sprung up; while other words, good in themselves, and which have
been since allowed, were yet employed in numbers quite out of proportion with the Saxon vocables
with which they were mingled, and which they altogether overtopped and shadowed. Chaucer’s
hearty English feeling, his thorough sympathy with the people, the fact that, scholar as he
was, he was yet the poet not of books but of life, and drew his best inspiration from life,
all this had kept him, in the main, clear of this fault. But in others it is very manifest.
Thus I must esteem the diction of Lydgate, Hawes, and the other versifiers who filled up the
period between Chaucer and Surrey, immensely inferior to Chaucer’s; being all stuck over with
long and often ill-selected Latin words. The worst offenders in this line, as Campbell himself
admits, were the Scotch poets of the fifteenth century. “The prevailing fault”, he says, “of
English diction, in the fifteenth century, is redundant ornament, and an affectation of anglicising
Latin words. In this pedantry and use of “aureate terms” the Scottish versifiers went even
beyond their brethren of the south.... When they meant to be eloquent, they tore up words from
the Latin, which never took root in the language, like children making a mock garden with flowers
and branches stuck in the ground, which speedily wither”{43}.

{Sidenote: Influence of the Reformation}

But this tendency to latinize our speech was likely to receive, and actually did receive, a
new impulse from the revival of learning, and the familiar re-acquaintance with the great masterpieces
of ancient literature which went along with this revival. Happily another movement accompanied,
or at least followed hard on this; a movement in England essentially national; and which stirred
our people at far deeper depths of their moral and spiritual life than any mere revival of
learning could have ever done; I refer, of course, to the Reformation. It was only among the
Germanic nations of Europe, as has often been remarked, that the Reformation struck lasting
roots; it found its strength therefore in the Teutonic element of the national character, which
also it in its turn further strengthened, purified, and called out. And thus, though Latin
came in upon us now faster than ever, and in a certain measure also Greek, yet this was not
without its redress and counterpoise, in the cotemporaneous unfolding of the more fundamentally
popular side of the language. Popular preaching and discussion, the necessity of dealing with
truths the most transcendent in a way to be understood not by scholars only, but by ‘idiots’
as well, all this served to evoke the native resources of our tongue; and thus the relative
proportion between the one part of the language and the other was not dangerously disturbed,
the balance was not destroyed; as it might well have been, if only the Humanists{45} had been
at work, and not the Reformers as well.

The revival of learning, which made itself first felt in Italy, extended to England, and was
operative here, during the reigns of Henry the Eighth and his immediate successors. Having
thus slightly anticipated in time, it afterwards ran exactly parallel with, the period during
which our Reformation was working itself out. The epoch was in all respects one of immense
mental and moral activity, and such never leave the language of a nation where they found it.
Much is changed in it; much probably added; for the old garment of speech, which once served
all needs, has grown too narrow, and serves them now no more. “Change in language is not, as
in many natural products, continuous; it is not equable, but eminently by fits and starts”;
and when the foundations of the national mind are heaving under the power of some new truth,
greater and more important changes will find place in fifty years than in two centuries of
calmer or more stagnant existence. Thus the activities and energies which the Reformation awakened
among us here--and I need not tell you that these reached far beyond the domain of our directly
religious life--caused mighty alterations in the English tongue{46}.

{Sidenote: Rise of New Words}

For example, the Reformation had its scholarly, we might say, its scholastic, as well as its
popular, aspect. Add this fact to the fact of the revived interest in classical learning, and
you will not wonder that a stream of Latin, now larger than ever, began to flow into our language.
Thus Puttenham, writing in Queen Elizabeth’s reign{47}, gives a long list of words which, as
he declares, had been quite recently introduced into the language. Some of them are Greek,
a few French and Italian, but very far the most are Latin. I will not give you his whole catalogue,
but some specimens from it; it is difficult to understand concerning some of these, how the
language should have managed to do without them so long; ‘method’, ‘methodical’, ‘function’,
‘numerous’, ‘penetrate’, ‘penetrable’, ‘indignity’, ‘savage’, ‘scientific’, ‘delineation’,
‘dimension’--all which he notes to have recently come up; so too ‘idiom’, ‘significative’,
‘compendious’, ‘prolix’, ‘figurative’, ‘impression’, ‘inveigle’, ‘metrical’. All these he adduces
with praise; others upon which he bestows equal commendation, have not held their ground, as
‘placation’, ‘numerosity’, ‘harmonical’. Of those neologies which he disallowed, he only anticipated
in some cases, as in ‘facundity’, ‘implete’, ‘attemptat’ (‘attentat’), the decision of a later
day; other words which he condemned no less, as ‘audacious’, ‘compatible’, ‘egregious’, have
maintained their ground. These too have done the same; ‘despicable’, ‘destruction’, ‘homicide’,
‘obsequious’, ‘ponderous’, ‘portentous’, ‘prodigious’, all of them by another writer a little
earlier condemned as “inkhorn terms, smelling too much of the Latin”.

{Sidenote: French Neologies}

It is curious to observe the “words of art”, as he calls them, which Philemon Holland, a voluminous
translator at the end of the sixteenth and beginning of the seventeenth century, counts it
needful to explain in a sort of glossary which he appends to his translation of Pliny’s Natural
History{48}. One can hardly at the present day understand how any person who would care to
consult the book at all would find any difficulty with words like the following, ‘acrimony’,
‘austere’, ‘bulb’, ‘consolidate’, ‘debility’, ‘dose’, ‘ingredient’, ‘opiate’, ‘propitious’,
‘symptom’, all which, however, as novelties he carefully explains. Some of the words in his
glossary, it is true, are harder and more technical than these; but a vast proportion of them
present no greater difficulty than those which I have adduced{49}.

The period during which this naturalization of Latin words in the English Language was going
actively forward, may be said to have continued till about the Restoration of Charles the Second.
It first received a check from the coming up of French tastes, fashions, and habits of thought
consequent on that event. The writers already formed before that period, such as Cudworth and
Barrow, still continued to write their stately sentences, Latin in structure, and Latin in
diction, but not so those of a younger generation. We may say of this influx of Latin that
it left the language vastly more copious, with greatly enlarged capabilities, but perhaps somewhat
burdened, and not always able to move gracefully under the weight of its new acquisitions;
for as Dryden has somewhere truly said, it is easy enough to acquire foreign words, but to
know what to do with them after you have acquired, is the difficulty.

{Sidenote: Pedantic Words}

It might have received indeed most serious injury, if all the words which the great writers
of this second Latin period of our language employed, and so proposed as candidates for admission
into it, had received the stamp of popular allowance. But happily it was not so; it was here,
as it had been before with the French importations, and with the earlier Latin of Lydgate and
Occleve. The re-active powers of the language, enabling it to throw off that which was foreign
to it, did not fail to display themselves now, as they had done on former occasions. The number
of unsuccessful candidates for admission into, and permanent naturalization in, the language
during this period, is enormous; and one may say that in almost all instances where the Alien
Act has been enforced, the sentence of exclusion was a just one; it was such as the circumstances
of the case abundantly bore out. Either the word was not idiomatic, or was not intelligible,
or was not needed, or looked ill, or sounded ill, or some other valid reason existed against
it. A lover of his native tongue will tremble to think what that tongue would have become,
if all the vocables from the Latin and the Greek which were then introduced or endorsed by
illustrious names, had been admitted on the strength of their recommendation; if ‘torve’ and
‘tetric’ (Fuller), ‘cecity’ (Hooker), ‘fastide’ and ‘trutinate’ (State Papers), ‘immanity’
(Shakespeare), ‘insulse’ and ‘insulsity’ (Milton, prose), ‘scelestick’ (Feltham), ‘splendidious’
(Drayton), ‘pervicacy’ (Baxter), ‘stramineous’, ‘ardelion’ (Burton), ‘lepid’ and ‘sufflaminate’
(Barrow), ‘facinorous’ (Donne), ‘immorigerous’, ‘clancular’, ‘ferity’, ‘ustulation’, ‘stultiloquy’,
‘lipothymy’ (λειποθυμία), ‘hyperaspist’ (all in Jeremy Taylor), if ‘mulierosity’, ‘subsannation’,
‘coaxation’, ‘ludibundness’, ‘delinition’, ‘septemfluous’, ‘medioxumous’, ‘mirificent’, ‘palmiferous’
(all in Henry More), ‘pauciloquy’ and ‘multiloquy’ (Beaumont, Psyche); if ‘dyscolous’ (Foxe),
‘ataraxy’ (Allestree), ‘moliminously’ (Cudworth), ‘luciferously’ (Sir Thomas Browne), ‘immarcescible’
(Bishop Hall), ‘exility’, ‘spinosity’, ‘incolumity’, ‘solertiousness’, ‘lucripetous’, ‘inopious’,
‘eluctate’, ‘eximious’ (all in Hacket), ‘arride’{50} (ridiculed by Ben Johnson), with the hundreds
of other words like these, and even more monstrous than are some of these, not to speak of
such Italian as ‘leggiadrous’ (a favourite word in Beaumont’s Psyche), ‘amorevolous’ (Hacket),
had not been rejected and disallowed by the true instinct of the national mind.

{Sidenote: Naturalization of Words}

A great many too were allowed and adopted, but not exactly in the shape in which they first
were introduced among us; they were made to drop their foreign termination, or otherwise their
foreign appearance, to conform themselves to English ways, and only so were finally incorporated
into the great family of English words{51}. Thus of Greek words we have the following: ‘pyramis’
and ‘pyramides’, forms often employed by Shakespeare, became ‘pyramid’ and ‘pyramids’; ‘dosis’
(Bacon) ‘dose’; ‘distichon’ (Holland) ‘distich’; ‘hemistichion’ (North) ‘hemistich’; ‘apogæon’
(Fairfax) and ‘apogeum’ (Browne) ‘apogee’; ‘sumphonia’ (Lodge) ‘symphony’; ‘prototypon’ (Jackson)
‘prototype’; ‘synonymon’ (Jeremy Taylor) or ‘synonymum’ (Hacket), and ‘synonyma’ (Milton, prose),
became severally ‘synonym’ and ‘synonyms’; ‘syntaxis’ (Fuller) became ‘syntax’; ‘extasis’ (Burton)
‘ecstasy’; ‘parallelogrammon’ (Holland) ‘parallelogram’; ‘programma’ (Warton) ‘program’; ‘epitheton’
(Cowell) ‘epithet’; ‘epocha’ (South) ‘epoch’; ‘biographia’ (Dryden) ‘biography’; ‘apostata’
(Massinger) ‘apostate’; ‘despota’ (Fox) ‘despot’; ‘misanthropos’ (Shakespeare) if ‘misanthropi’
(Bacon) ‘misanthrope’; ‘psalterion’ (North) ‘psaltery’; ‘chasma’ (Henry More) ‘chasm’; ‘idioma’
and ‘prosodia’ (both in Daniel, prose) ‘idiom’ and ‘prosody’; ‘energia’, ‘energy’, and ‘Sibylla’,
‘Sibyl’ (both in Sidney); ‘zoophyton’ (Henry More) ‘zoophyte’; ‘enthousiasmos’ (Sylvester)
‘enthusiasm’; ‘phantasma’ (Donne) ‘phantasm’; ‘magnes’ (Gabriel Harvey) ‘magnet’; ‘cynosura’
(Donne) ‘cynosure’; ‘galaxias’ (Fox) ‘galaxy’; ‘heros’ (Henry More) ‘hero’; ‘epitaphy’ (Hawes)
‘epitaph’.

The same process has gone on in a multitude of Latin words, which testify by their terminations
that they were, and were felt to be, Latin at their first employment; though now they are such
no longer. Thus Bacon uses generally, I know not whether always, ‘insecta’ for ‘insects’; and
‘chylus’ for ‘chyle’; Bishop Andrews ‘nardus’ for ‘nard’; Spenser ‘zephyrus’, and not ‘zephyr’;
so ‘interstitium’ (Fuller) preceded ‘interstice’; ‘philtrum’ (Culverwell) ‘philtre’; ‘expansum’
(Jeremy Taylor) ‘expanse’; ‘preludium’ (Beaumont, Psyche), ‘prelude’; ‘precipitium’ (Coryat)
‘precipice’; ‘aconitum’ (Shakespeare) ‘aconite’; ‘balsamum’ (Webster) ‘balsam’; ‘heliotropium’
(Holland) ‘heliotrope’; ‘helleborum’ (North) ‘hellebore’; ‘vehiculum’ (Howe) ‘vehicle’; ‘trochæus’
and ‘spondæus’ (Holland) ‘trochee’ and ‘spondee’; and ‘machina’ (Henry More) ‘machine’. We
have ‘intervalla’, not ‘intervals’, in Chillingworth; ‘postulata’, not ‘postulates’, in Swift;
‘archiva’, not ‘archives’, in Baxter; ‘demagogi’, not ‘demagogues’, in Hacket; ‘vestigium’,
not ‘vestige’, in Culverwell; ‘pantomimus’ in Lord Bacon for ‘pantomime’; ‘mystagogus’ for
‘mystagogue’, in Jackson; ‘atomi’ in Lord Brooke for ‘atoms’; ‘ædilis’ (North) went before
‘ædile’; ‘effigies’ and ‘statua’ (both in Shakespeare) before ‘effigy’ and ‘statue’; ‘abyssus’
(Jackson) before ‘abyss’; ‘vestibulum’ (Howe) before ‘vestibule’; ‘symbolum’ (Hammond) before
‘symbol’; ‘spectrum’ (Burton) before ‘spectre’; while only after a while ‘quære’ gave place
to ‘query’; ‘audite’ (Hacket) to ‘audit’; ‘plaudite’ (Henry More) to ‘plaudit’; and the low
Latin ‘mummia’ (Webster) became ‘mummy’. The widely extended change of such words as ‘innocency’,
‘indolency’, ‘temperancy’, and the large family of words with the same termination, into ‘innocence’,
‘indolence’, ‘temperance’, and the like, can only be regarded as part of the same process of
entire naturalization.

The plural very often tells the secret of a word, and of the light in which it is regarded
by those who employ it, when the singular, being less capable of modification, would have failed
to do so; thus when Holland writes ‘phalanges’, ‘bisontes’, ‘ideæ’, it is clear that ‘phalanx’,
‘bison’, ‘idea’, were still Greek words for him; as ‘dogma’ was for Hammond, when he made its
plural not ‘dogmas’, but ‘dogmata’{52}; and when Spenser uses ‘heroes’ as a trisyllable, it
plainly is not yet thoroughly English for him{53}. ‘Cento’ is not English, but a Latin word
used in English, so long as it makes its plural not ‘centos’, but ‘centones’, as in the old
anonymous translation of Augustin’s City of God{54}; and ‘specimen’, while it makes its plural
‘specimina’ (Howe). Pope making, as he does, ‘satellites’ a quadrisyllable in the line

    “Why Jove’s satellites are less than Jove”,

must have felt that he was still dealing with it as Latin; just as ‘terminus’, a word which
the necessities of railways have introduced among us, will not be truly naturalized till we
use ‘terminuses’, and not ‘termini’ for its plural; nor ‘phenomenon’, till we have renounced
‘phenomena’. Sometimes it has been found convenient to retain both plurals, that formed according
to the laws of the classical language, and that formed according to the laws of our own, only
employing them in different senses; thus is it with ‘indices’ and ‘indexes’, ‘genii’ and ‘geniuses’.

The same process has gone on with words from other languages, as from the Italian and the Spanish;
thus ‘bandetto’ (Shakespeare), ‘bandito’ (Jeremy Taylor), becomes ‘bandit’; ‘ruffiano’ (Coryat)
‘ruffian’; ‘concerto’, ‘concert’; ‘busto’ (Lord Chesterfield) ‘bust’; ‘caricatura’ (Sir Thomas
Browne) ‘caricature’; ‘princessa’ (Hacket) ‘princess’; ‘scaramucha’ (Dryden) ‘scaramouch’;
‘pedanteria’ (Sidney) ‘pedantry’; ‘impresa’ ‘impress’; ‘caprichio’ (Shakespeare) becomes first
‘caprich’ (Butler), then ‘caprice’; ‘duello’ (Shakespeare) ‘duel’; ‘alligarta’ (Ben Jonson),
‘alligator’; ‘parroquito’ (Webster) ‘parroquet’; ‘scalada’ (Heylin) or ‘escalado’ (Holland)
‘escalade’; ‘granada’ (Hacket) ‘grenade’; ‘parada’ (J. Taylor) ‘parade’; ‘emboscado’ (Holland)
‘stoccado’, ‘barricado’, ‘renegado’, ‘hurricano’ (all in Shakespeare), ‘brocado’ (Hackluyt),
‘palissado’ (Howell), drop their foreign terminations, and severally become ‘ambuscade’, ‘stockade’,
‘barricade’, ‘renegade’, ‘hurricane’, ‘brocade’, ‘palisade’; ‘croisado’ in like manner (Bacon)
becomes first ‘croisade’ (Jortin), and then ‘crusade’; ‘quinaquina’ or ‘quinquina’, ‘quinine’.
Other slight modifications of spelling, not in the termination, but in the body of a word,
will indicate in like manner its more entire incorporation into the English language. Thus
‘shash’, a Turkish word, becomes ‘sash’; ‘colone’ (Burton) ‘clown’{55}; ‘restoration’ was at
first spelt ‘restauration’; and so long as ‘vicinage’ was spelt ‘voisinage’{56} (Sanderson),
‘mirror’ ‘miroir’ (Fuller), ‘recoil’ ‘recule’, or ‘career’ ‘carriere’ (both by Holland), they
could scarcely be considered those purely English words which now they are{57}.

Here and there even at this comparatively late period of the language awkward foreign words
will be recast in a more thoroughly English mould; ‘chirurgeon’ will become ‘surgeon’; ‘hemorrhoid’,
‘emerod’; ‘squinancy’ will become first ‘squinzey’ (Jeremy Taylor) and then ‘quinsey’; ‘porkpisce’
(Spenser), that is sea-hog, or more accurately hogfish{58} will be ‘porpesse’, and then ‘porpoise’,
as it is now. In other words the attempt will be made, but it will be now too late to be attended
with success. ‘Physiognomy’ will not give place to ‘visnomy’, however Spenser and Shakespeare
employ this briefer form; nor ‘hippopotamus’ to ‘hippodame’, even at Spenser’s bidding. In
like manner the attempt to naturalize ‘avant-courier’ in the shape of ‘vancurrier’ has failed.
Other words also we meet which have finally refused to take a more popular form, although such
was once more or less current; or, if this is too much to say of all, yet hazarded by good
authors. Thus Holland wrote ‘cirque’, but we ‘circus’; ‘cense’, but we ‘census’; ‘interreign’,
but we ‘interregnum’; Sylvester ‘cest’, but we ‘cestus’; ‘quirry’, but we ‘equerry’; ‘colosse’,
but we still ‘colossus’; Golding ‘ure’, but we ‘urus’; ‘metropole’, but we ‘metropolis’; Dampier
‘volcan’, but this has not superseded ‘volcano’; nor ‘pagod’ (Pope) ‘pagoda’; nor ‘skelet’
(Holland) ‘skeleton’; nor ‘stimule’ (Stubbs) ‘stimulus’. Bolingbroke wrote ‘exode’, but we
hold fast to ‘exodus’; Burton ‘funge’, but we ‘fungus’; Henry More ‘enigm’, but we ‘enigma’;
‘analyse’, but we ‘analysis’. ‘Superfice’ (Dryden) has not put ‘superficies’, nor ‘sacrary’
(Hacket) ‘sacrarium’, nor ‘limbeck’ ‘alembic’, out of use. Chaucer’s ‘potecary’ has given way
to a more Greek formation ‘apothecary’. Yet these and the like must be regarded quite as exceptions;
the tendency of things is altogether the other way.

Looking at this process of the reception of foreign words, with their after assimilation in
feature to our own, we may trace, as was to be expected, a certain conformity between the genius
of our institutions and that of our language. It is the very character of our institutions
to repel none, but rather to afford a shelter and a refuge to all, from whatever quarter they
come; and after a longer or shorter while all the strangers and incomers have been incorporated
into the English nation, within one or two generations have forgotten that they were ever ought
else than members of it, have retained no other reminiscence of their foreign extraction than
some slight difference of name, and that often disappearing or having disappeared. Exactly
so has it been with the English language. No language has shown itself less exclusive; none
has stood less upon niceties; none has thrown open its arms wider, with a fuller confidence,
a confidence justified by experience, that it could make truly its own, assimilate and subdue
to itself, whatever it received into its bosom; and in none has this experiment in a larger
number of instances been successfully carried out.

       *       *       *       *       *

{Sidenote: French at the Restoration}

Such are the two great enlargements from without of our vocabulary. All other are minor and
subordinate. Thus the introduction of French tastes by Charles the Second and his courtiers
returning from exile, to which I have just adverted, though it rather modified the structure
of our sentences than the materials of our vocabulary, gave us some new words. In one of Dryden’s
plays, Marriage à la Mode, a lady full of affectation is introduced, who is always employing
French idioms in preference to English, French words rather than native. It is not a little
curious that of these, thus put into her mouth to render her ridiculous, not a few are excellent
English now, and have nothing far-sought or affected about them: for so it frequently proves
that what is laughed at in the beginning, is by all admitted and allowed at the last. For example,
to speak of a person being in the ‘good graces’ of another has nothing in it ridiculous now;
the words ‘repartee’, ‘embarrass’, ‘chagrin’, ‘grimace’, do not sound novel and affected now
as they all must plainly have done at the time when Dryden wrote. ‘Fougue’ and ‘fraischeur’,
which he himself employed--being, it is true, no frequent offender in this way--have not been
justified by the same success.

{Sidenote: Greek Words Naturalized}

Nor indeed can it be said that this adoption and naturalization of foreign words ever ceases
in a language. There are periods, as we have seen, when this goes forward much more largely
than at others; when a language throws open, as it were, its doors, and welcomes strangers
with an especial freedom; but there is never a time, when one by one these foreigners and strangers
are not slipping into it. We do not for the most part observe the fact, at least not while
it is actually doing. Time, the greatest of all innovators, manages his innovations so dexterously,
spreads them over such vast periods, and therefore brings them about so gradually, that often,
while effecting the mightiest changes, we have no suspicion that he is effecting any at all.
Thus how imperceptible are the steps by which a foreign word is admitted into the full rights
of an English one; the process of its incoming often eluding our notice altogether. There are
numerous Greek words, for example which, quite unchanged in form, have in one way or another
ended in finding a home and acceptance among us. We may in almost every instance trace step
by step the naturalization of one of these; and the manner of this singularly confirms what
has just been said. We can note it spelt for a while in Greek letters, and avowedly employed
as a Greek and not an English vocable; then after it had thus obtained a certain allowance
among us, and become not altogether unfamiliar, we note it exchanging its Greek for English
letters, and finally obtaining recognition as a word which however drawn from a foreign source,
is yet itself English. Thus ‘acme’, ‘apotheosis’, ‘criterion’, ‘chrysalis’, ‘encyclopedia’,
‘metropolis’, ‘opthalmia’, ‘pathos’, ‘phenomena’, are all now English words, while yet South
with many others always wrote ἀκμή, Jeremy Taylor ἀποθέωσις and κριτήριον, Henry More χρυσαλίς,
Ben Jonson speaks of ‘the knowledge of the liberal arts, which the Greeks call ἐγκυκλοπαδείαν’{59},
Culverwell wrote μητρόπολις and ὀφθαλμία, Preston, φαινόμενα--Sylvester ascribes to Baxter,
not ‘pathos’, but πάθος{60}. Ἠθος is a word at the present moment preparing for a like passage
from Greek characters to English, and certainly before long will be acknowledged as an English
word{61}. The only cause which has hindered this for some time past is the misgiving whether
it will not be read ‘ĕthos,’ and not ‘ēthos,’ and thus not be the word intended.

Let us trace a like process in some French word, which is at this moment becoming English.
I know no better example than the French ‘prestige’ will afford. ‘Prestige’ has manifestly
no equivalent in our own language; it expresses something which no single word in English,
which only a long circumlocution, could express; namely, that magic influence on others, which
past successes as the pledge and promise of future ones, breed. The word has thus naturally
come to be of very frequent use by good English writers; for they do not feel that in employing
it they are passing by as good or a better word of their own. At first all used it avowedly
as French, writing it in italics to indicate this. At the present moment some write it so still,
some do not; some, that is, regard it still as foreign, others consider that it has now become
English, and obtained a settlement among us{62}. Little by little the number of those who write
it in italics will become fewer and fewer, till they cease altogether. It will then only need
that the accent should be shifted, in obedience to the tendencies of the English language,
as far back in the word as it will go, that instead of ‘prestíge’, it should be pronounced
‘préstige’ even as within these few years instead of ‘depót’ we have learned to say ‘dépot’,
and its naturalization will be complete. I have little doubt that in twenty years it will be
so pronounced by the majority of well educated Englishmen{63},--some pronounce it so already,--and
that our present pronunciation will pass away in the same manner as ‘obleege’, once universal,
has past away, and everywhere given place to ‘oblige’{64}.

{Sidenote: Shifting of Accents}

Let me here observe in passing, that the process of throwing the accent of a word back, by
way of completing its naturalization, is one which we may note constantly going forward in
our language. Thus, while Chaucer accentuates sometimes ‘natúre’, he also accentuates elsewhere
‘náture’, while sometimes ‘virtúe’, at other times ‘vírtue’. ‘Prostrate’, ‘adverse’, ‘aspect’,
‘process’, ‘insult’, ‘impulse’, ‘pretext’, ‘contrite’, ‘uproar’, ‘contest’, had all their accent
on the last syllable in Milton; they have it now on the first; ‘cháracter’ was ‘charácter’
with Spenser; ‘théatre’ was ‘theátre’ with Sylvester; while ‘acádemy’ was accented ‘académy’
by Cowley and Butler{65}. ‘Essay’ was ‘essáy’ with Dryden and with Pope; the first closes an
heroic line with the word; Pope does the same with ‘barrier’{66} and ‘effort’; therefore pronounced
‘barríer’, ‘effórt’, by him.

There are not a few other French words which like ‘prestige’ are at this moment hovering on
the verge of English, hardly knowing whether they shall become such, or no. Such are ‘ennui’,
‘exploitation’, ‘verve’, ‘persiflage’, ‘badinage’, ‘chicane’, ‘finesse’, and others; all of
them often employed by us,--and it is out of such frequent employment that adoption proceeds,--because
expressing shades of meaning not expressed by any words of our own{67}. Some of these, we may
confidently anticipate, will complete their naturalization; others will after a time retreat
again, and become for us avowedly French. ‘Solidarity’, a word which we owe to the French Communists,
and which signifies a fellowship in gain and loss, in honour and dishonour, in victory and
defeat, a being, so to speak, all in the same bottom, is so convenient, that unattractive as
confessedly it is, it will be in vain to struggle against its reception. The newspapers already
have it, and books will not long exclude it; not to say that it has established itself in German,
and probably in other European languages as well.

{Sidenote: Greek in English}

Greek and Latin words also we still continue to adopt, although now no longer in troops and
companies, but only one by one. With the lively interest which always has been felt in classical
studies among us, and which will continue to be felt, so long as any greatness and nobleness
survive in our land, it must needs be that accessions from these quarters would never cease
altogether. I do not refer here to purely scientific terms; these, so long as they continue
such, and do not pass beyond the threshold of the science or sciences for the use of which
they were invented, being never heard on the lips, or employed in the writings, of any but
the cultivators of these sciences, have no right to be properly called words at all. They are
a kind of shorthand of the science, or algebraic notation; and will not find place in a dictionary
of the language, constructed upon true principles, but rather in a technical dictionary apart
by themselves. Of these, compelled by the advances of physical science, we have coined multitudes
out of number in these later times, fashioning them mainly from the Greek, no other language
within our reach yielding itself at all so easily to our needs.

Of non-scientific words, both Greek and Latin, some have made their way among us quite in these
latter times. Burke in the House of Commons is said to have been the first who employed the
word ‘inimical’{68}. He also launched the verb ‘to spheterize’ in the sense of to appropriate
or make one’s own; but this without success. Others have been more fortunate; ‘æsthetic’ we
have got indeed through the Germans, but from the Greeks. Tennyson has given allowance to ‘æon’{69};
and ‘myth’ is a deposit which wide and far-reaching controversies have left in the popular
language. ‘Photography’ is an example of what I was just now speaking of--namely, a scientific
word which has travelled beyond the limits of the science which it designates and which gave
it birth. ‘Stereotype’ is another word of the same character. It was invented--not the thing,
but the word,--by Didot not very long since; but it is now absorbed into healthy general circulation,
being current in a secondary and figurative sense. Ruskin has given to ‘ornamentation’ the
sanction and authority of his name. ‘Normal’ and ‘abnormal’, not quite so new, are yet of recent
introduction into the language{70}.

{Sidenote: German Importations}

When we consider the near affinity between the English and German languages, which, if not
sisters, may at least be regarded as first cousins, it is somewhat remarkable that almost since
the day when they parted company, each to fulfil its own destiny, there has been little further
commerce between them in the matter of giving or taking. At any rate adoptions on our part
from the German have been till within this period extremely rare. ‘Crikesman’ (Kriegsmann)
and ‘brandschat’ (Brandschatz), with some other German words common enough in the State Papers
of the sixteenth century, found no permanent place in the language. The explanation lies in
the fact that the literary activity of Germany did not begin till very late, nor our interest
in it till later still, not indeed till the beginning of the present century. Yet ‘plunder’,
as I have mentioned elsewhere, was brought back from Germany about the beginning of our Civil
Wars, by the soldiers who had served under Gustavus Adolphus and his captains{71}. And ‘trigger’,
written ‘tricker’ in Hudibras is manifestly the German ‘drücker’{72}, though none of our dictionaries
have marked it as such; a word first appearing at the same period, it may have reached us through
the same channel. ‘Iceberg’ (eisberg) also we must have taken whole from the German, as, had
we constructed the word for ourselves, we should have made it not ‘iceberg’, but ‘ice-mountain’.
I have not found it in our earlier voyagers, often as they speak of the ‘icefield’, which yet
is not exactly the same thing. An English ‘swindler’ is not exactly a German ‘schwindler’,
yet the notion of the ‘nebulo’, though more latent in the German, is common to both; and we
must have drawn the word from Germany{73} (it is not an old one in our tongue) during the course
of the last century. If ‘life-guard’ was originally, as Richardson suggests, ‘leib-garde’,
or ‘body-guard’, and from that transformed, by the determination of Englishmen to make it significant
in English, into ‘life-guard’, or guard defending the life of the sovereign, this will be another
word from the same quarter. Yet I have my doubts; ‘leibgarde’ would scarcely have found its
way hither before the accession of the House of Hanover, or at any rate before the arrival
of Dutch William with his memorable guards; while ‘lifeguard’, in its present shape, is certainly
an older word in the language; we hear often of the ‘lifeguards’ in our Civil Wars; as witness
too Fuller’s words: “The Cherethites were a kind of lifegard to king David”{74}.

Of late our German importations have been somewhat more numerous. With several German compound
words we have been in recent times so well pleased, that we must needs adopt them into English,
or imitate them in it. We have not always been very happy in those which we have selected for
imitation or adoption. Thus we might have been satisfied with ‘manual’, and not called back
from its nine hundred years of oblivion that ugly and unnecessary word ‘handbook’. And now
we are threatened with ‘word-building’, as I see a book announced under the title of “Latin
word-building”, and, much worse than this, with ‘stand-point’. ‘Einseitig’ (itself a modern
word, if I mistake not, or at any rate modern in its secondary application) has not, indeed,
been adopted, but is evidently the pattern on which we have formed ‘onesided’--a word to which
a few years ago something of affectation was attached; so that any one who employed it at once
gave evidence that he was more or less a dealer in German wares; it has however its manifest
conveniences, and will hold its ground. ‘Fatherland’ (Vaterland) on the contrary will scarcely
establish itself among us, the note of affectation will continue to cleave to it, and we shall
go on contented with ‘native country’ to the end{75}. The most successful of these compounded
words, borrowed recently from the German, is ‘folk-lore’, and the substitution of this for
popular superstitions, must be esteemed, I think, an unquestionable gain{76}.

To speak now of other sources from which the new words of a language are derived. Of course
the period when absolutely new roots are generated will have past away, long before men begin
by a reflective act to take any notice of processes going forward in the language which they
speak. This pure productive energy, creative we might call it, belongs only to the earlier
stages of a nation’s existence,--to times quite out of the ken of history. It is only from
materials already existing either in its own bosom, or in the bosom of other languages, that
it can enrich itself in the later, or historical stages of its life.

{Sidenote: Compound Words}

And first, it can bring its own words into new combinations; it can join two, and sometimes
even more than two, of the words which it already has, and form out of them a new one. Much
more is wanted here than merely to attach two or more words to one another by a hyphen; this
is not to make a new word: they must really coalesce and grow together. Different languages,
and even the same language at different stages of its existence, will possess this power of
forming new words by the combination of old in very different degrees. The eminent felicity
of the Greek in this respect has been always acknowledged. “The joints of her compounded words”,
says Fuller, “are so naturally oiled, that they run nimbly on the tongue, which makes them
though long, never tedious, because significant”{77}. Sir Philip Sidney boasts of the capability
of our English language in this respect--that “it is particularly happy in the composition
of two or three words together, near equal to the Greek”. No one has done more than Milton
to justify this praise, or to make manifest what may be effected by this marriage of words.
Many of his compound epithets, as ‘golden-tressed’, ‘tinsel-slippered’, ‘coral-paven’, ‘flowry-kirtled’,
‘violet-embroidered’, ‘vermeil-tinctured’, are themselves poems in miniature. Not unworthy
to be set beside these are Sylvester’s “opal-coloured morn”, Drayton’s “silver-sanded shore”,
and perhaps Marlowe’s “golden-fingered Ind”{78}.

Our modern inventions in the same kind are for the most part very inferior: they could hardly
fail to be so, seeing that the formative, plastic powers of a language are always waning and
diminishing more and more. It may be, and indeed is, gaining in other respects, but in this
it is losing; and thus it is not strange if its later births in this kind are less successful
than its earlier. Among the poets of our own time Shelley has done more than any other to assert
for the language that it has not quite renounced this power; while among writers of prose in
these later days Jeremy Bentham has been at once one of the boldest, but at the same time one
of the most unfortunate, of those who have issued this money from their mint. Still we ought
not to forget, while we divert ourselves with the strange and formless progeny of his brain,
that we owe ‘international’ to him--a word at once so convenient and supplying so real a need,
that it was, and with manifest advantage, at once adopted by all{79}.

{Sidenote: Adjectives ending in al}

Another way in which languages increase their stock of vocables is by the forming of new words
according to the analogy of formations, which in seemingly parallel cases have been already
allowed. Thus long since upon certain substantives such as ‘congregation’, ‘convention’, were
formed their adjectives, ‘congregational’, ‘conventional’; yet these also at a comparatively
modern period; ‘congregational’ first rising up in the Assembly of Divines, or during the time
of the Commonwealth{80}. These having found admission into the language, it is attempted to
repeat the process in the case of other words with the same ending. I confess the effect is
often exceedingly disagreeable. We are now pretty well used to ‘educational’, and the word
is sometimes serviceable enough; but I can perfectly remember when some twenty years ago an
“Educational Magazine” was started, the first impression on one’s mind was, that a work having
to do with education should not thus bear upon its front an offensive, or to say the best,
a very dubious novelty in the English language{81}. These adjectives are now multiplying fast.
We have ‘inflexional’, ‘seasonal’, ‘denominational’, and, not content with this, in dissenting
magazines at least, the monstrous birth, ‘denominationalism’; ‘emotional’ is creeping into
books{82}, ‘sensational’, and others as well, so that it is hard to say where this influx will
stop, or whether all our words with this termination will not finally generate an adjective.
Convenient as you may sometimes find these, I would yet certainly counsel you to abstain from
all but the perfectly well recognized formations of this kind. There may be cases of exception;
but for the most part Pope’s advice is good, as certainly it is safe, that we be not among
the last to use a word which is going out, nor among the first to employ one that is coming in.

‘Starvation’ is another word of comparatively recent introduction, formed in like manner on
the model of preceding formations of an apparently similar character--its first formers, indeed,
not observing that they were putting a Latin termination to a Saxon word. Some have supposed
it to have reached us from America. It has not however travelled from so great a distance,
being a stranger indeed, yet not from beyond the Atlantic, but only from beyond the Tweed.
It is an old Scottish word, but unknown in England, till used by Mr. Dundas, the first Viscount
Melville, in an American debate in 1775. That it then jarred strangely on English ears is evident
from the nickname, “Starvation Dundas”, which in consequence he obtained{83}.

{Sidenote: Revival of Words}

Again, languages enrich themselves, our own has done so, by recovering treasures which for
a while had been lost by them or forgone. There are others, however, which it is a real gain
to draw back again from the temporary oblivion which had overtaken them; and this process of
their setting and rising again, or of what, to use another image, we might call their suspended
animation, is not so unfrequent as at first might be supposed.

You may perhaps remember that Horace, tracing in a few memorable lines the history of words,
while he notes that many once current have now dropped out of use, does not therefore count
that of necessity their race is for ever run; on the contrary he confidently anticipates a
palingenesy for many among them{85}; and I am convinced that there has been such in the case
of our English words to a far greater extent than we are generally aware. Words slip almost
or quite as imperceptibly back into use as they once slipped out of it. Let me produce a few
facts in evidence of this. In the contemporary gloss which an anonymous friend of Spenser’s
furnished to his Shepherd’s Calendar, first published in 1579, “for the exposition of old words”,
as he declares, he thinks it expedient to include in his list, the following, ‘dapper’, ‘scathe’,
‘askance’, ‘sere’, ‘embellish’, ‘bevy’, ‘forestall’, ‘fain’, with not a few others quite as
familiar as these. In Speght’s Chaucer (1667), there is a long list of “old and obscure words
in Chaucer explained”; including ‘anthem’, ‘blithe’, ‘bland’, ‘chapelet’, ‘carol’, ‘deluge’,
‘franchise’, ‘illusion’, ‘problem’, ‘recreant’, ‘sphere’, ‘tissue’, ‘transcend’, with very
many easier than these. In Skinner’s Etymologicon (1671), there is another list of obsolete,
words{86}, and among these he includes ‘to dovetail’, ‘to interlace’, ‘elvish’, ‘encombred’,
‘masquerade’ (mascarade), ‘oriental’, ‘plumage’, ‘pummel’ (pomell), and ‘stew’, that is, for
fish. Who will say of the verb ‘to hallow’ that it is now even obsolescent? and yet Wallis
two hundred years ago observed--“It has almost gone out of use” (fer. desuevit). It would be
difficult to find an example of the verb, ‘to advocate’, between Milton and Burke{87}. Franklin,
a close observer in such matters, as he was himself an admirable master of English style, considered
the word to have sprung up during his own residence in Europe. In this indeed he was mistaken;
it had only during this period revived{88}. Johnson says of ‘jeopardy’ that it is a “word not
now in use”; which certainly is not any longer true{89}.

{Sidenote: Dryden and Chaucer’s English}

I am persuaded that in facility of being understood, Chaucer is not merely as near, but much
nearer, to us than Dryden and his cotemporaries felt him to be to them. He and the writers
of his time make exactly the same sort of complaints, only in still stronger language, about
his archaic phraseology and the obscurities which it involves, that are made at the present
day. Thus in the Preface to his Tales from Chaucer, having quoted some not very difficult lines
from the earlier poet whom he was modernizing, he proceeds: “You have here a specimen of Chaucer’s
language, which is so obsolete that his sense is scarce to be understood”. Nor was it merely
thus with respect of Chaucer. These wits and poets of the Court of Charles the Second were
conscious of a greater gulf between themselves and the Elizabethan era, separated from them
by little more than fifty years, than any of which we are aware, separated from it by nearly
two centuries more. I do not mean merely that they felt themselves more removed from its tone
and spirit; their altered circumstances might explain this; but I am convinced that they found
a greater difficulty and strangeness in the language of Spenser and Shakespeare than we find
now; that it sounded in many ways more uncouth, more old-fashioned, more abounding in obsolete
terms than it does in our ears at the present. Only in this way can I explain the tone in which
they are accustomed to speak of these worthies of the near past. I must again cite Dryden,
the truest representative of literary England in its good and in its evil during the last half
of the seventeenth century. Of Spenser, whose death was separated from his own birth by little
more than thirty years, he speaks as of one belonging to quite a different epoch, counting
it much to say, “Notwithstanding his obsolete language, he is still intelligible”{90}. Nay,
hear what his judgment is of Shakespeare himself, so far as language is concerned: “It must
be allowed to the present age that the tongue in general is so much refined since Shakespeare’s
time, that many of his words and more of his phrases are scarce intelligible. And of those
which we understand, some are ungrammatical, others coarse; and his whole style is so pestered
with figurative expressions, that it is as affected as it is obscure”{91}.

{Sidenote: Nugget, Ingot}

Sometimes a word will emerge anew from the undercurrent of society, not indeed new, but yet
to most seeming as new, its very existence having been altogether forgotten by the larger number
of those speaking the language; although it must have somewhere lived on upon the lips of men.
Thus, for instance, since the Californian and Australian discoveries of gold we hear often
of a ‘nugget’ of gold; being a lump of the pure metal; and there has been some discussion whether
the word has been born for the present necessity, or whether it be a recent malformation of
‘ingot’, I am inclined to think that it is neither one nor the other. I would not indeed affirm
that it may not be a popular recasting of ‘ingot’; but only that it is not a recent one; for
‘nugget’ very nearly in its present form, occurs in our elder writers, being spelt ‘niggot’
by them{92}. There can be little doubt of the identity of ‘niggot’ and ‘nugget’; all the consonants,
the stamina of a word, being the same; while this early form ‘niggot’ makes more plausible
their suggestion that ‘nugget’ is only ‘ingot’ disguised, seeing that there wants nothing but
the very common transposition of the first two letters to bring that out of this{93}.

{Sidenote: Words from Proper Names}

New words are often formed from the names of persons, actual or mythical. Some one has observed
how interesting would be a complete collection, or a collection approaching to completeness,
in any language of the names of persons which have afterwards become names of things, from
‘nomina appellativa’ have become ‘nomina realia’{94}. Let me without confining myself to those
of more recent introduction endeavour to enumerate as many as I can remember of the words which
have by this method been introduced into our language. To begin with mythical antiquity--the
Chimæra has given us ‘chimerical’, Hermes ‘hermetic’, Tantalus ‘to tantalize’, Hercules ‘herculean’,
Proteus ‘protean’, Vulcan ‘volcano’ and ‘volcanic’, and Dædalus ‘dedal’, if this word may on
Spenser’s and Shelley’s authority be allowed. Gordius, the Phrygian king who tied that famous
‘gordian’ knot which Alexander cut, will supply a natural transition from mythical to historical.
Here Mausolus, a king of Caria, has left us ‘mausoleum’, Academus ‘academy’, Epicurus ‘epicure’,
Philip of Macedon a ‘philippic’, being such a discourse as Demosthenes once launched against
the enemy of Greece, and Cicero ‘cicerone’. Mithridates, who had made himself poison-proof,
gave us the now forgotten word ‘mithridate’, for antidote; as from Hippocrates we derived ‘hipocras’,
or ‘ypocras’, a word often occurring in our early poets, being a wine supposed to be mingled
after his receipt. Gentius, a king of Illyria, gave his name to the plant ‘gentian’, having
been, it is said, the first to discover its virtues. A grammar used to be called a ‘donnat’,
or ‘donet’ (Chaucer), from Donatus, a famous grammarian. Lazarus, perhaps an actual person,
has given us ‘lazar’ and ‘lazaretto’; St. Veronica and the legend connected with her name,
a ‘vernicle’; being a napkin with the Saviour’s face portrayed on it; Simon Magus ‘simony’;
Mahomet a ‘mammet’ or ‘maumet’, meaning an idol{95}, and ‘mammetry’ or idolatry; ‘dunce’ is
from Duns Scotus; while there is a legend that the ‘knot’ or sandpiper is named from Canute
or Knute, with whom this bird was a special favourite. To come to more modern times, and not
pausing at Ben Johnson’s ‘chaucerisms’, Bishop Hall’s ‘scoganisms’, from Scogan, Edward the
Fourth’s jester, or his ‘aretinisms’, from an infamous writer, ‘a poisonous Italian ribald’
as Gabriel Harvey calls him, named Aretine; these being probably not intended even by their
authors to endure; a Roman cobbler named Pasquin has given us the ‘pasquil’ or ‘pasquinade’;
‘patch’ in the sense of fool, and often so used by Shakespeare, was originally the proper name
of a favourite fool of Cardinal Wolsey{96}; Colonel Negus in Queen Anne’s time first mixed
the beverage which goes by his name; Lord Orrery was the first for whom an ‘orrery’ was constructed;
and Lord Spencer first wore, or at least first brought into fashion, a ‘spencer’. Dahl, a Swede,
introduced the cultivation of the ‘dahlia’, and M. Tabinet, a French Protestant refugee, the
making of the stuff called ‘tabinet’ in Dublin; in ‘tram-road’, the second syllable of the
name of Outram, the inventor, survives{97}. The ‘tontine’ was conceived by an Italian named
Tonti; and another Italian, Galvani, first noted the phenomena of animal electricity or ‘galvanism’;
while a third Italian, ‘Volta’, gave a name to the ‘voltaic’ battery. ‘Martinet’, ‘mackintosh’,
‘doyly’, ‘brougham’, ‘to macadamize’, ‘to burke’, are all names of persons or from persons,
and then transferred to things, on the score of some connection existing between the one and
other{98}.

Again the names of popular characters in literature, such as have taken strong hold on the
national mind, give birth to a number of new words. Thus from Homer we have ‘mentor’ for a
monitor; ‘stentorian’, for loud-voiced; and inasmuch as with all of Hector’s nobleness there
is a certain amount of big talking about him, he has given us ‘to hector’{99}; while the medieval
romances about the siege of Troy ascribe to Pandarus that shameful ministry out of which his
name has past into the words ‘to pandar’ and ‘pandarism’. ‘Rodomontade’ is from Rodomont, a
blustering and boasting hero of Boiardo, adopted by Ariosto; ‘thrasonical’, from Thraso, the
braggart of the Roman comedy. Cervantes has given us ‘quixotic’; Swift ‘lilliputian’; to Molière
the French language owes ‘tartuffe’ and ‘tartufferie’. ‘Reynard’ too, which with us is a duplicate
for fox, while in the French ‘renard’ has quite excluded the older ‘volpils’, was originally
not the name of a kind, but the proper name of the fox-hero, the vulpine Ulysses, in that famous
beast-epic of the middle ages, Reineke Fuchs; the immense popularity of which we gather from
many evidences, from none more clearly than from this. ‘Chanticleer’ is in like manner the
proper name of the cock, and ‘Bruin’ of the bear in the same poem{100}. These have not made
fortune to the same extent of actually putting out in any language the names which before existed,
but still have become quite familiar to us all.

We must not count as new words properly so called, although they may delay us for a minute,
those comic words, most often comic combinations formed at will, and sometimes of enormous
length, in which, as plays and displays of power, great writers ancient and modern have delighted.
These for the most part are meant to do service for the moment, and then to pass away{101}.
The inventors of them had themselves no intention of fastening them permanently on the language.
Thus among the Greeks Aristophanes coined μελλονικιάω, to loiter like Nicias, with allusion
to the delays with which this prudent commander sought to put off the disastrous Sicilian expedition,
with not a few other familiar to every scholar. The humour of them sometimes consists in their
enormous length, as in the ἀμφιπτολεμοπηδησίστρατος of Eupolis; the σπερμαγοραιολεκιθολαχανόπωλις
of Aristophanes; sometimes in their mingled observance and transgression of the laws of the
language, as in the ‘oculissimus’ of Plautus, a comic superlative of ‘oculus’; ‘occisissimus’
of ‘occisus’; as in the ‘dosones’, ‘dabones’, which in Greek and in medieval Latin were names
given to those who were ever promising, ever saying “I will give” but never performing their
promise. Plautus with his exuberant wit, and exulting in his mastery and command of the Latin
language, will compose four or five lines consisting entirely of comic combinations thrown
off for the occasion{102}. Of the same character is Butler’s ‘cynarctomachy’, or battle of
a dog and bear. Nor do I suppose that Fuller, when he used ‘to avunculize’, to imitate or follow
in the steps of one’s uncle, or Cowper, when he suggested ‘extraforaneous’ for out of doors,
in the least intended them as lasting additions to the language.

{Sidenote: ‘To Chouse’}

Sometimes a word springs up in a very curious way; here is one, not having, I suppose, any
great currency except among schoolboys; yet being no invention of theirs, but a genuine English
word, though of somewhat late birth in the language, I mean ‘to chouse’. It has a singular
origin. The word is, as I have mentioned already, a Turkish one, and signifies ‘interpreter’.
Such an interpreter or ‘chiaous’ (written ‘chaus’ in Hackluyt, ‘chiaus’ in Massinger), being
attached to the Turkish embassy in England, committed in the year 1609 an enormous fraud on
the Turkish and Persian merchants resident in London. He succeeded in cheating them of a sum
amounting to £4000--a sum very much greater at that day than at the present. From the vast
dimensions of the fraud, and the notoriety which attended it, any one who cheated or defrauded
was said ‘to chiaous’, ‘chause’, or ‘chouse’; to do, that is, as this ‘chiaous’ had done{103}.

{Sidenote: Different Spelling of Words}

There is another very fruitful source of new words in a language, or perhaps rather another
way in which it increases its vocabulary, for a question might arise whether the words thus
produced ought to be called new. I mean through the splitting of single words into two or even
more. The impulse and suggestion to this is in general first given by varieties in pronunciation,
which are presently represented by varieties in spelling; but the result very often is that
what at first were only precarious and arbitrary differences in this, come in the end to be
regarded as entirely different words; they detach themselves from one another, not again to
reunite; just as accidental varieties in fruits or flowers, produced at hazard, have yet permanently
separated off, and settled into different kinds. They have each its own distinct domain of
meaning, as by general agreement assigned to it; dividing the inheritance between them, which
hitherto they held in common. No one who has not had his attention called to this matter, who
has not watched and catalogued these words as they have come under his notice, would at all
believe how numerous they are.

{Sidenote: Doublets}

Sometimes as the accent is placed on one syllable of a word or another, it comes to have different
significations, and those so distinctly marked, that the separation may be regarded as complete.
Examples of this are the following: ‘dívers’, and ‘divérse’; ‘cónjure’ and ‘conjúre’; ‘ántic’
and ‘antíque’; ‘húman’ and ‘humáne’; ‘úrban’ and ‘urbáne’; ‘géntle’ and ‘gentéel’; ‘cústom’
and ‘costúme’; ‘éssay’ and ‘assáy’; ‘próperty’ and ‘propríety’. Or again, a word is pronounced
with a full sound of its syllables, or somewhat more shortly: thus ‘spirit’ and ‘sprite’; ‘blossom’
and ‘bloom’{104}; ‘personality’ and ‘personalty’; ‘fantasy’ and ‘fancy’; ‘triumph’ and ‘trump’
(the winning card{105}); ‘happily’ and ‘haply’; ‘waggon’ and ‘wain’; ‘ordinance’ and ‘ordnance’;
‘shallop’ and ‘sloop’; ‘brabble’ and ‘brawl’{106}; ‘syrup’ and ‘shrub’; ‘balsam’ and ‘balm’;
‘eremite’ and ‘hermit’; ‘nighest’ and ‘next’; ‘poesy’ and ‘posy’; ‘fragile’ and ‘frail’; ‘achievement’
and ‘hatchment’; ‘manœuvre’ and ‘manure’;--or with the dropping of the first syllable: ‘history’
and ‘story’; ‘etiquette’ and ‘ticket’; ‘escheat’ and ‘cheat’; ‘estate’ and ‘state’; and, older
probably than any of these, ‘other’ and ‘or’;--or with a dropping of the last syllable, as
‘Britany’ and ‘Britain’; ‘crony’ and ‘crone’;--or without losing a syllable, with more or less
stress laid on the close: ‘regiment’ and ‘regimen’; ‘corpse’ and ‘corps’; ‘bite’ and ‘bit’;
‘sire’ and ‘sir’; ‘land’ or ‘laund’ and ‘lawn’; ‘suite’ and ‘suit’; ‘swinge’ and ‘swing’; ‘gulph’
and ‘gulp’; ‘launch’ and ‘lance’; ‘wealth’ and ‘weal’; ‘stripe’ and ‘strip’; ‘borne’ and ‘born’;
‘clothes’ and ‘cloths’;--or a slight internal vowel change finds place, as between ‘dent’ and
‘dint’; ‘rant’ and ‘rent’ (a ranting actor tears or rends a passion to tatters){107}; ‘creak’
and ‘croak’; ‘float’ and ‘fleet’; ‘sleek’ and ‘slick’; ‘sheen’ and ‘shine’; ‘shriek’ and ‘shrike’;
‘pick’ and ‘peck’; ‘peak’, ‘pique’, and ‘pike’; ‘weald’ and ‘wold’; ‘drip’ and ‘drop’; ‘wreathe’
and ‘writhe’; ‘spear’ and ‘spire’ (“the least spire of grass”, South); ‘trist’ and ‘trust’;
‘band’, ‘bend’ and ‘bond’; ‘cope’, ‘cape’ and ‘cap’; ‘tip’ and ‘top’; ‘slent’ (now obsolete)
and ‘slant’; ‘sweep’ and ‘swoop’; ‘wrest’ and ‘wrist’; ‘gad’ (now surviving only in gadfly)
and ‘goad’; ‘complement’ and ‘compliment’; ‘fitch’ and ‘vetch’; ‘spike’ and ‘spoke’; ‘tamper’
and ‘temper’; ‘ragged’ and ‘rugged’; ‘gargle’ and ‘gurgle’; ‘snake’ and ‘sneak’ (both crawl);
‘deal’ and ‘dole’; ‘giggle’ and ‘gaggle’ (this last is now commonly spelt ‘cackle’); ‘sip’,
‘sop’, ‘soup’ and ‘sup’; ‘clack’, ‘click’ and ‘clock’; ‘tetchy’ and ‘touchy’; ‘neat’ and ‘nett’;
‘stud’ and ‘steed’; ‘then’ and ‘than’{108}; ‘grits’ and ‘grouts’; ‘spirt’ and ‘sprout’; ‘cure’
and ‘care’{109}; ‘prune’ and ‘preen’; ‘mister’ and ‘master’; ‘allay’ and ‘alloy’; ‘ghostly’
and ‘ghastly’{110}; ‘person’ and ‘parson’; ‘cleft’ and ‘clift’, now written ‘cliff’; ‘travel’
and ‘travail’; ‘truth’ and ‘troth’; ‘pennon’ and ‘pinion’; ‘quail’ and ‘quell’; ‘quell’ and
‘kill’; ‘metal’ and ‘mettle’; ‘chagrin’ and ‘shagreen’; ‘can’ and ‘ken’; ‘Francis’ and ‘Frances’{111};
‘chivalry’ and ‘cavalry’; ‘oaf’ and ‘elf’; ‘lose’ and ‘loose’; ‘taint’ and ‘tint’. Sometimes
the difference is mainly or entirely in the initial consonants, as between ‘phial’ and ‘vial’;
‘pother’ and ‘bother’; ‘bursar’ and ‘purser’; ‘thrice’ and ‘trice’{110}; ‘shatter’ and ‘scatter’;
‘chattel’ and ‘cattle’; ‘chant’ and ‘cant’; ‘zealous’ and ‘jealous’; ‘channel’ and ‘kennel’;
‘wise’ and ‘guise’; ‘quay’ and ‘key’; ‘thrill’, ‘trill’ and ‘drill’;--or in the consonants
in the middle of the word, as between ‘cancer’ and ‘canker’; ‘nipple’ and ‘nibble’; ‘tittle’
and ‘title’; ‘price’ and ‘prize’; ‘consort’ and ‘concert’;--or there is a change in both, as
between ‘pipe’ and ‘fife’.

Or a word is spelt now with a final k and now with a final ch; out of this variation two different
words have been formed; with, it may be, other slight differences superadded; thus is it with
‘poke’ and ‘poach’; ‘dyke’ and ‘ditch’; ‘stink’ and ‘stench’; ‘prick’ and ‘pritch’ (now obsolete);
‘break’ and ‘breach’; to which may be added ‘broach’; ‘lace’ and ‘latch’; ‘stick’ and ‘stitch’;
‘lurk’ and ‘lurch’; ‘bank’ and ‘bench’; ‘stark’ and ‘starch’; ‘wake’ and ‘watch’. So too t
and d are easily exchanged; as in ‘clod’ and ‘clot’; ‘vend’ and ‘vent’; ‘brood’ and ‘brat’{112};
‘halt’ and ‘hold’; ‘sad’ and ‘set’{113}; ‘card’ and ‘chart’; ‘medley’ and ‘motley’. Or there
has grown up, besides the rigorous and accurate pronunciation of a word, a popular as well;
and this in the end has formed itself into another word; thus is it with ‘housewife’ and ‘hussey’;
‘hanaper’ and ‘hamper’; ‘puisne’ and ‘puny’; ‘patron’ and ‘pattern’; ‘spital’ (hospital) and
‘spittle’ (house of correction); ‘accompt’ and ‘account’; ‘donjon’ and ‘dungeon’; ‘nestle’
and ‘nuzzle’{114} (now obsolete); ‘Egyptian’ and ‘gypsy’; ‘Bethlehem’ and ‘Bedlam’; ‘exemplar’
and ‘sampler’; ‘dolphin’ and ‘dauphin’; ‘iota’ and ‘jot’.

Other changes cannot perhaps be reduced exactly under any of these heads; as between ‘ounce’
and ‘inch’; ‘errant’ and ‘arrant’; ‘slack’ and ‘slake’; ‘slow’ and ‘slough’{115}; ‘bow’ and
‘bough’; ‘hew’ and ‘hough’{115}; ‘dies’ and ‘dice’ (both plurals of ‘die’); ‘plunge’ and ‘flounce’{115};
‘staff’ and ‘stave’; ‘scull’ and ‘shoal’; ‘benefit’ and ‘benefice’{116}. Or, it may be, the
difference which constitutes the two forms of the word into two words is in the spelling only,
and of a character to be appreciable only by the eye, escaping altogether the ear: thus it
is with ‘draft’ and ‘draught’; ‘plain’ and ‘plane’; ‘coign’ and ‘coin’; ‘flower’ and ‘flour’;
‘check’ and ‘cheque’; ‘straight’ and ‘strait’; ‘ton’ and ‘tun’; ‘road’ and ‘rode’; ‘throw’
and ‘throe’; ‘wrack’ and ‘rack’; ‘gait’ and ‘gate’; ‘hoard’ and ‘horde’{117}; ‘knoll’ and ‘noll’;
‘chord’ and ‘cord’; ‘drachm’ and ‘dram’; ‘sergeant’ and ‘serjeant’; ‘mask’ and ‘masque’; ‘villain’
and ‘villein’.

{Sidenote: Words in Two Forms}

Now, if you will put the matter to proof, you will find, I believe, in every case that there
has attached itself to the different forms of a word a modification of meaning more or less
sensible, that each has won for itself an independent sphere of meaning, in which it, and it
only, moves. For example, ‘divers’ implies difference only, but ‘diverse’ difference with opposition;
thus the several Evangelists narrate the same event in ‘divers’ manner, but not in ‘diverse’.
‘Antique’ is ancient, but ‘antic’, is now the ancient regarded as overlived, out of date, and
so in our days grotesque, ridiculous; and then, with a dropping of the reference to age, the
grotesque, the ridiculous alone. ‘Human’ is what every man is, ‘humane’ is what every man ought
to be; for Johnson’s suggestion that ‘humane’ is from the French feminine, ‘humaine’, and ‘human’
from the masculine, cannot for an instant be admitted. ‘Ingenious’ expresses a mental, ‘ingenuous’
a moral, excellence{118}. A gardener ‘prunes’, or trims his trees, properly indeed his vines
alone (provigner), birds ‘preen’ or trim their feathers. We ‘allay’ wine with water; we ‘alloy’
gold with platina. ‘Bloom’ is a finer and more delicate efflorescence even than ‘blossom’;
thus the ‘bloom’, but not the ‘blossom’, of the cheek. It is now always ‘clots’ of blood and
‘clods’ of earth; a ‘float’ of timber, and a ‘fleet’ of ships; men ‘vend’ wares, and ‘vent’
complaints. A ‘curtsey’ is one, and that merely an external, manifestation of ‘courtesy’. ‘Gambling’
may be, as with a fearful irony it is called, play, but it is nearly as distant from ‘gambolling’
as hell is from heaven{119}. Nor would it be hard, in almost every pair or larger group of
words which I have adduced, as in others which no doubt might be added to complete the list,
to trace a difference of meaning which has obtained a more or less distinct recognition{120}.

But my subject is inexhaustible; it has no limits except those, which indeed may be often narrow
enough, imposed by my own ignorance on the one side; and on the other, by the necessity of
consulting your patience, and of only choosing such matter as will admit a popular setting
forth. These necessities, however, bid me to pause, and suggest that I should not look round
for other quarters from whence accessions of new words are derived. Doubtless I should not
be long without finding many such. I must satisfy myself for the rest with a very brief consideration
of the motives which, as they have been, are still at work among us, inducing us to seek for
these augmentations of our vocabulary.

And first, the desire of greater clearness is a frequent motive and inducement to this. It
has been well and truly said: “Every new term, expressing a fact or a difference not precisely
or adequately expressed by any other word in the same language, is a new organ of thought for
the mind that has learned it”{121}. The limits of their vocabulary are in fact for most men
the limits of their knowledge; and in a great degree for us all. Of course I do not affirm
that it is absolutely impossible to have our mental conceptions clearer and more distinct than
our words; but it is very hard to have, and still harder to keep, them so. And therefore it
is that men, conscious of this, so soon as ever they have learned to distinguish in their minds,
are urged by an almost irresistible impulse to distinguish also in their words. They feel that
nothing is made sure till this is done.

{Sidenote: Dissimilation of Words}

The sense that a word covers too large a space of meaning, is the frequent occasion of the
introduction of another, which shall relieve it of a portion of this. Thus, there was a time
when ‘witch’ was applied equally to male and female dealers in unlawful magical arts. Simon
Magus, for example, and Elymas are both ‘witches’, in Wiclif’s New Testament (Acts viii. 9;
xiii. 8), and Posthumus in Cymbeline: but when the medieval Latin ‘sortiarius’ (not ‘sortitor’
as in Richardson), supplied another word, the French ‘sorcier’, and thus our English ‘sorcerer’
(originally the “caster of lots”), then ‘witch’ gradually was confined to the hag, or female
practiser of these arts, while ‘sorcerer’ was applied to the male.

New necessities, new evolutions of society into more complex conditions, evoke new words; which
come forth, because they are required now; but did not formerly exist, because they were not
required in the period preceding. For example, in Greece so long as the poet sang his own verses
‘singer’ (ἀοιδὸς) sufficiently expressed the double function; such a ‘singer’ was Homer, and
such Homer describes Demodocus, the bard of the Phæacians; that double function, in fact, not
being in his time contemplated as double, but each part of it so naturally completing the other,
that no second word was required. When, however, in the division of labour one made the verses
which another chaunted, then ‘poet’ or ‘maker’, a word unknown in the Homeric age, arose. In
like manner, when ‘physicians’ were the only natural philosophers, the word covered this meaning
as well as that other which it still retains; but when the investigation of nature and natural
causes detached itself from the art of healing, became an independent study of itself, the
name ‘physician’ remained to that which was as the stock and stem of the art, while the new
offshoot sought out a new name for itself.

Another motive to the invention of new words, is the desire thereby to cut short lengthy{122}
explanations, tedious circuits of language. Science is often an immense gainer by words, which
say singly what it would have taken whole sentences otherwise to have said. Thus ‘isothermal’
is quite of modern invention; but what a long story it would be to tell the meaning of ‘isothermal
lines’, all which is summed up in and saved by the word. We have long had the word ‘assimilation’
in our dictionaries; ‘dissimilation’ has not yet found its way into them, but it speedily will.
It will appear first, if it has not already appeared, in our books on language{123}. I express
myself with this confidence, because the advance of philological enquiry has rendered it almost
a matter of necessity that we should possess a word to designate a certain process, and no
other word would designate it at all so well. There is a process of ‘assimilation’ going on
very extensively in language; it occurs where the organs of speech find themselves helped by
changing a letter for another which has just occurred, or will just occur in a word; thus we
say not ‘adfiance’ but ‘affiance’, not ‘renowm’, as our ancestors did when the word ‘renommée’
was first naturalized, but ‘renown’. At the same time there is another opposite process, where
some letter would recur too often for euphony or comfort in speaking, if the strict form of
the word were too closely held fast, and where consequently this letter is exchanged for some
other, generally for some nearly allied; thus it is at least a reasonable suggestion, that
‘cœruleum’ was once ‘cœluleum’, from cœlum: so too the Italians prefer ‘veleno’ to ‘veneno’;
and we ‘cinnamon’ to ‘cinnamom’ (the earlier form); in ‘turtle’ and ‘purple’ we have shrunk
from the double ‘r’ of ‘turtur’ and ‘purpura’; and this process of making unlike, requiring
a term to express it, will create, or indeed has created, the word ‘dissimilation’, which probably
will in due time establish itself among us in far wider than its primary use.

‘Watershed’ has only recently begun to appear in books of geography; and yet how convenient
it must be admitted to be; how much more so than ‘line of water parting’, which it has succeeded;
meaning, as I need hardly tell you it does, not merely that which sheds the waters, but that
which divides them (‘wasserscheide’); and being applied to that exact ridge and highest line
in a mountain region, where the waters of that region separate off and divide, some to one
side, and some to the other; as in the Rocky Mountains of North America there are streams rising
within very few miles of one another, which flow severally east and west, and, if not in unbroken
course, yet as affluents to larger rivers, fall at least severally into the Pacific and Atlantic
oceans. It must be allowed, I think, that not merely geographical terminology, but geography
itself, had a benefactor in him who first endowed it with so expressive and comprehensive a
word, bringing before us a fact which we should scarcely have been aware of without it.

There is another word which I have just employed, ‘affluent’, in the sense of a stream which
does not flow into the sea, but joins a larger stream, as for instance, the Isis is an ‘affluent’
of the Thames, the Moselle of the Rhine. It is itself an example in the same kind of that whereof
I have been speaking, having been only recently constituted a substantive, and employed in
this sense, while yet its utility is obvious. ‘Confluents’ would perhaps be a fitter name,
where the rivers, like the Missouri and the Mississippi, were of equal or nearly equal importance
up to the time of their meeting{124}.

{Sidenote: ‘Selfishness’, ‘Suicide’}

Again, new words are coined out of the necessity which men feel of filling up gaps in the language.
Thoughtful men, comparing their own language with that of other nations, become conscious of
deficiencies, of important matters unexpressed in their own, and with more or less success
proceed to supply the deficiency. For example, that sin of sins, the undue love of self, with
the postponing of the interests of all others to our own, had for a long time no word to express
it in English. Help was sought from the Greek, and from the Latin. ‘Philauty’ (φιλαυτία) had
been more than once attempted by our scholars; but found no popular acceptance. This failing,
men turned to the Latin; one writer trying to supply the want by calling the man a ‘suist’,
as one seeking his own things (‘sua’), and the sin itself, ‘suicism’. The gap, however, was
not really filled up, till some of the Puritan writers, drawing on our Saxon, devised ‘selfish’
and ‘selfishness’, words which to us seem obvious enough, but which yet are little more than
two hundred [and fifty] years old{125}.

{Sidenote: Notices of New Words}

Before quitting this part of the subject, let me say a few words in conclusion on this deliberate
introduction of words to supply felt omissions in a language, and the limits within which this
or any other conscious interference with the development of a language is desirable or possible.
By the time that a people begin to meditate upon their language, to be aware by a conscious
reflective act either of its merits or deficiencies, by far the greater and more important
part of its work is done; it is fixed in respect of its structure in immutable forms; the region
in which any alteration or modification, addition to it, or substraction from it, deliberately
devised and carried out, may be possible, is very limited indeed. Its great laws are too firmly
established to admit of this; so that almost nothing can be taken from it, which it has got;
almost nothing added to it, which it has not got. It will travel indeed in certain courses
of change; but it would be as easy almost to alter the career of a planet as for man to alter
these. This is sometimes a subject of regret with those who see what they believe manifest
defects or blemishes in their language, and such as appear to them capable of remedy. And yet
in fact this is well; since for once that these redressers of real or fancied wrongs, these
suppliers of things lacking, would have mended, we may be tolerably confident that ten times,
yea, a hundred times, they would have marred; letting go that which would have been well retained;
retaining that which by a necessary law the language now dismisses and lets go; and in manifold
ways interfering with those processes of a natural logic, which are here evermore at work.
The genius of a language, unconsciously presiding over all its transformations, and conducting
them to a definite issue, will have been a far truer, far safer guide, than the artificial
wit, however subtle, of any single man, or of any association of men. For the genius of a language
is the sense and inner conviction of all who speak it, as to what it ought to be, and the means
by which it will best attain its objects; and granting that a pair of eyes, or two or three
pairs of eyes may see much, yet millions of eyes will certainly see more.

{Sidenote: German Purists}

It is only with the words, and not with the forms and laws of a language, that any interference
such as I have just supposed is possible. Something, indeed much, may here be done by wise
masters, in the way of rejecting that which would deform, allowing and adopting that which
will strengthen and enrich. Those who would purify or enrich a language, so long as they have
kept within this their proper sphere, have often effected much, more than at first could have
seemed possible. The history of the German language affords so much better illustration of
this than our own would do, that I shall make no scruple in seeking my examples there. When
the patriotic Germans began to wake up to a consciousness of the enormous encroachments which
foreign languages, the Latin and French above all, had made on their native tongue, the lodgements
which they had therein effected, and the danger which threatened it, namely, that it should
cease to be German at all, but only a mingle-mangle, a variegated patchwork of many languages,
without any unity or inner coherence at all, various societies were instituted among them,
at the beginning and during the course of the seventeenth century, for the recovering of what
was lost of their own, for the expelling of that which had intruded from abroad; and these
with excellent effect.

But more effectual than these societies were the efforts of single men, who in this merited
well of their country{126}. In respect of words which are now entirely received by the whole
nation, it is often possible to designate the writers who first substituted them for some affected
Gallicism or unnecessary Latinism. Thus to Lessing his fellow-countrymen owe the substitution
of ‘zartgefühl’ for ‘delicatesse’, of ‘empfindsamkeit’ for ‘sentimentalität’, of ‘wesenheit’
for ‘essence’. It was Voss (1786) who first employed ‘alterthümlich’ for ‘antik’. Wieland too
was the author or reviver of a multitude of excellent words, for which often he had to do earnest
battle at the first; such were ‘seligkeit’, ‘anmuth’, ‘entzückung’, ‘festlich’, ‘entwirren’,
with many more. For ‘maskerade’, Campe would have fain substituted ‘larventanz’. It was a novelty
when Büsching called his great work on geography ‘erdbeschreibung’ instead of ‘geographie’;
while ‘schnellpost’ instead of ‘diligence’, ‘zerrbild’ for ‘carricatur’ are also of recent
introduction. In regard of ‘wörterbuch’ itself, J. Grimm tells us he can find no example of
its use dating earlier than 1719.

Yet at the same time it must be acknowledged that some of these reformers proceeded with more
zeal than knowledge, while others did whatever in them lay to make the whole movement absurd--even
as there ever hang on the skirts of a noble movement, be it in literature or politics or higher
things yet, those who contribute their little all to bring ridicule and contempt upon it. Thus
in the reaction against foreign interlopers which ensued, and in the zeal to purify the language
from them, some went to such extravagant excesses as to desire to get rid of ‘testament’, ‘apostel’,
which last Campe would have replaced by ‘lehrbote’, with other words like these, consecrated
by longest use, and to find native substitutes in their room; or they understood so little
what words deserved to be called foreign, or how to draw the line between them and native,
that they would fain have gotten rid of ‘vater’, ‘mutter’, ‘wein’, ‘fenster’, ‘meister’, ‘kelch’{127};
the first three of which belong to the German language by just as good a right as they do to
the Latin and the Greek; while the other three have been naturalized so long that to propose
to expel them now was as if, having passed an alien act for the banishment of all foreigners,
we should proceed to include under that name, and as such drive forth from the kingdom, the
descendants of the French Protestants who found refuge here at the Revocation of the Edict
of Nantes, or even of the Flemings who settled among us in the time of our Edwards. One notable
enthusiast in this line proposed to create an entirely new nomenclature for all the mythological
personages of the Greek and the Roman pantheon, who, one would think, might have been allowed,
if any, to retain their Greek and Latin names. So far however from this, they were to exchange
these for equivalent German titles; Cupid was to be ‘Lustkind’, Flora ‘Bluminne’, Aurora ‘Röthin’;
instead of Apollo schoolboys were to speak of ‘Singhold’; instead of Pan of ‘Schaflieb’; instead
of Jupiter of ‘Helfevater’, with much else of the same kind. Let us beware (and the warning
extends much further than to the matter in hand) of making a good cause ridiculous by our manner
of supporting it, of assuming that exaggerations on one side can only be redressed by exaggerations
as great upon the other.

{FOOTNOTES}

{38} Thus Alexander Gil, head-master of St. Paul’s School, in his book,
     Logonomia Anglica, 1621, Preface: Huc usque peregrinæ voces in
     linguâ Anglicâ inauditæ. Tandem circa annum 1400 Galfridus
     Chaucerus, infausto omine, vocabulis Gallicis et Latinis poësin
     suam famosam reddidit. The whole passage, which is too long to
     quote, as indeed the whole book, is curious. Gil was an earnest
     advocate of phonetic spelling, and has adopted it in all his
     English quotations in this book.

{39} We may observe exactly the same in Plautus: a multitude of Greek
     words are used by him, which the Latin language did not want, and
     therefore refused to take up; thus ‘clepta’, ‘zamia’ (ζημία),
     ‘danista’, ‘harpagare’, ‘apolactizare’, ‘nauclerus’, ‘strategus’,
     ‘morologus’, ‘phylaca’, ‘malacus’, ‘sycophantia’, ‘euscheme’
     (εὐσχήμως), ‘dulice’ (δουλικῶς), [so ‘scymnus’ by Lucretius], none
     of which, I believe, are employed except by him; ‘mastigias’ and
     ‘techna’ appear also in Terence. Yet only experience could show
     that they were superfluous; and at the epoch of Latin literature in
     which Plautus lived, it was well done to put them on trial.

{40} [Modern poets have given ‘amort’ a new life; it is used by Keats,
     by Bailey (Festus, xxx), and by Browning (Sordello, vi).]

{41} [‘Bruit’ has been revived by Carlyle and Chas. Merivale. Its verbal
     form is used by Cowper, Byron and Dickens.]

{42} Let me here observe once for all that in adding the name of an
     author, which I shall often do, to a word, I do not mean to affirm
     the word in any way peculiar to him; although in some cases it may
     be so; but only to give one authority for its use. [Coleridge uses
     ‘eloign’.]

{43} Essay on English Poetry, p. 93.

{44} Dedication of the Translation of the Æneid.

{45} [i.e. the promoters of Classical learning.]

{46} We have notable evidence in some lines of Waller of the sense which
     in his time scholars had of the rapidity with which the language
     was changing under their hands. Looking back at what the last
     hundred years had wrought of alteration in it, and very naturally
     assuming that the next hundred would effect as much, he checked
     with misgivings such as these his own hope of immortality:

         “Who can hope his lines should long
         Last in a daily changing tongue?
         While they are new, envy prevails,
         And as that dies, our language fails.

           *       *       *       *       *

         “Poets that lasting marble seek,
         Must carve in Latin or in Greek:
         We write in sand; our language grows,
         And like the tide our work o’erflows”.

     Such were his misgivings as to the future, assuming that the rate
     of change would continue what it had been. How little they have
     been fulfilled, every one knows. In actual fact two centuries,
     which have elapsed since he wrote, have hardly antiquated a word or
     a phrase in his poems. If we care very little for them now, that is
     to be explained by quite other causes--by the absence of all moral
     earnestness from them.

{47} In his Art of English Poesy, London, 1589, republished in
     Haslewood’s Ancient Critical Essays upon English Poets and Poesy,
     London, 1811, vol. i. pp. 122, 123; [and in Arber’s English
     Reprints, 1869].

{48} London, 1601. Besides this work Holland translated the whole of
     Plutarch’s Moralia, the Cyropœdia of Xenophon, Livy, Suetonius,
     Ammianus Marcellinus, and Camden’s Britannia. His works make a
     part of the “library of dullness” in Pope’s Dunciad:

         “De Lyra there a dreadful front extends,
         And here the groaning shelves Philemon bends”--

     very unjustly; the authors whom he has translated are all more or
     less important, and his versions of them a mine of genuine
     idiomatic English, neglected by most of our lexicographers, wrought
     to a considerable extent, and with eminent advantage by Richardson;
     yet capable, as it seems to me, of yielding much more than they
     hitherto have yielded.

{49} And so too in French it is surprising to find of how late
     introduction are many words, which it seems as if the language
     could never have done without. ‘Désintéressement’, ‘exactitude’,
     ‘sagacité’, ‘bravoure’, were not introduced till late in the
     seventeenth century. ‘Renaissance’, ‘emportement’, ‘sçavoir-faire’,
     ‘indélébile’, ‘désagrément’, were all recent in 1675 (Bouhours);
     ‘indévot’, ‘intolérance’, ‘impardonnable’, ‘irréligieux’, were
     struggling into allowance at the end of the seventeenth century,
     and were not established till the beginning of the eighteenth.
     ‘Insidieux’ was invented by Malherbe; ‘frivolité’ does not appear
     in the earlier editions of the Dictionary of the Academy; the
     Abbé de St. Pierre was the first to employ ‘bienfaisance’, the
     elder Balzac ‘féliciter’, Sarrasin ‘burlesque’. Mad. de Sevigné
     exclaims against her daughter for employing ‘effervescence’ in a
     letter (comment dites-vous cela, ma fille? Voilà un mot dont je
     n’avais jamais ouï parler). ‘Demagogue’ was first hazarded by
     Bossuet, and was counted so bold a novelty that it was long before
     any ventured to follow him in its use. Somewhat earlier Montaigne
     had introduced ‘diversion’ and ‘enfantillage’, though not without
     being rebuked by cotemporaries on the score of the last.
     Desfontaines was the first who employed ‘suicide’; Caron gave to
     the language ‘avant-propos’, Ronsard ‘avidité’, Joachim Dubellay
     ‘patrie’, Denis Sauvage ‘jurisconsulte’, Menage ‘gracieux’ (at
     least so Voltaire affirms) and ‘prosateur’, Desportes ‘pudeur’,
     Chapelain ‘urbanité’, and Etienne first brought in, apologizing at
     the same time for the boldness of it, ‘analogie’ (si les oreilles
     françoises peuvent porter ce mot). ‘Préliber’ (prælibare) is a word
     of our own day; and it was Charles Nodier who, if he did not coin,
     yet revived the obsolete ‘simplesse’.--See Génin, Variations du
     Langage Français, pp. 308-19.

{50} [Resuscitated in vain by Charles Lamb.]

{51} J. Grimm (Wörterbuch, p. xxvi.): Fällt von ungefähr ein fremdes
     wort in den brunnen einer sprache, so wird es so lange darin
     umgetrieben, bis es ihre farbe annimmt, und seiner fremden art zum
     trotze wie ein heimisches aussieht.

{52} Have we here an explanation of the ‘battalia’ of Jeremy Taylor and
     others? Did they, without reflecting on the matter, regard
     ‘battalion’ as a word with a Greek neuter termination? It is
     difficult to think they should have done so; yet more difficult to
     suggest any other explanation. [‘Battalia’ was sometimes mistaken
     as a plural, which indeed it was originally, the word being derived
     through the Italian battaglia, from low Latin battalia, which
     (like biblia, gaudia, etc.) was afterwards regarded as a
     feminine singular (Skeat, Principles, ii, 230). But Shakespeare
     used it as a singular, “Our battalia trebles that account”
     (Rich. III, v. 3, 11); and so Sir T. Browne, “The Roman
     battalia was ordered after this manner” (Garden of Cyrus, 1658,
     p. 113).]

{53} “And old heroës, which their world did daunt”.

                                         Sonnet on Scanderbeg.

{54} [By J. H(ealey), 1610, who has “centones ... of diuerse colours”,
     p. 605.]

{55} [The identity of these two words, notwithstanding the analogy of
     corona and crown, is denied by Skeat, Kluge and Lutz.]

{56} Skinner (Etymologicon, 1671) protests against the word
     altogether, as purely French, and having no right to be considered
     English at all.

{57} It is curious how effectually the nationality of a word may by
     these slight alterations in spelling be disguised. I have met an
     excellent French and English scholar, to whom it was quite a
     surprise to learn that ‘redingote’ was ‘riding-coat’.

{58} [Compare French marsouin (=German meer-schwein), “sea-pig”, the
     dolphin; Breton mor-houc’h; Irish mucc mara, “pig of the sea”,
     the dolphin (W. Stokes, Irish Glossaries, p. 118); French truye
     de mer (Cotgrave); old English brun-swyne (Prompt. Parv.),
     “brown-pig”, the dolphin or seal.]

{59} He is not indeed perfectly accurate in this statement, for the
     Greeks spoke of ἐν κύκλῳ παιδεία and ἐγκύκλιος παιδεία, but had no
     such composite word as ἐγκυκλοπαδεία. We gather however from these
     expressions, as from Lord Bacon’s using the term ‘circle-learning’
     (=‘orbis doctrinæ’, Quintilian), that ‘encyclopædia’ did not exist
     in their time. [But ‘encyclopedia’ occurs in Elyot, Governour,
     1531, vol. i, p. 118 (ed. Croft); ‘encyclopædie’ in J. Sylvester,
     Workes, 1621, p. 660.]

{60} See the passages quoted in my paper, On some Deficiencies in our
     English Dictionaries, p. 38.

{61} [This prediction has been verified. ‘Ethos’ is used by Sir F.
     Palgrave, 1851, and in the ‘Encyclopædia Britannica’, 1875. N.E.D.]

{62} We may see the same progress in Greek words which were being
     incorporated in the Latin. Thus Cicero writes ἀντίποδες (Acad.
     ii, 39, 123), but Seneca (Ep. 122), ‘antipodes’; that is, the
     word for Cicero was still Greek, while in the period that elapsed
     between him and Seneca, it had become Latin: so too Cicero wrote
     εἴδωλον, the Younger Pliny ‘idolon’, and Tertullian ‘idolum’.

{63} [This rash prophecy has not been fulfilled. English speakers are
     still no more inclined to say ‘préstige’ than ‘pólice’.]

{64} See in Coleridge’s Table Talk, p. 3, the amusing story of John
     Kemble’s stately correction of the Prince of Wales for adhering to
     the earlier pronunciation, ‘obleege,’--“It will become your royal
     mouth better to say oblige.”

{65} “In this great académy of mankind”.

                              Butler, To the Memory of Du Val.

{66} “‘Twixt that and reason what a nice barrier”.

{67} [A fairly complete collection of these and similar semi-naturalized
     foreign words will be found in The Stanford Dictionary of
     Anglicized Words, edited by Dr. C. A. M. Fennell, 1892.]

{68} [This is quite wrong. Mr. Fitzedward Hall shows that ‘inimical’ was
     used by Gaule in 1652, as well as by Richardson in 1758 (Modern
     English, p. 287). The N.E.D. quotes an instance of it from Udall
     in 1643.]

{69} [The word had been already naturalized by H. More, 1647, Cudworth,
     1678, Tucker 1765, and Carlyle, 1831.--N.E.D.]

{70} [The earliest citation for ‘abnormal’ in the N.E.D. is dated 1835.
     The older word was ‘abnormous’. Curious to say it is unrelated to
     ‘normal’ to which it has been assimilated, being merely an
     alteration of ‘anomal-ous’.]

{71} [Fuller says of ‘plunder’, “we first heard thereof in the Swedish
     wars”, and that it came into England about 1642 (Church History,
     bk. xi, sec. 4, par. 33). It certainly occurs under that date in
     Memoirs of the Verney Family, “It is in danger of plonderin”
     (vol. i, p. 71, also p. 151). It also occurs in a document dated
     1643, “We must plunder none but Roundheads” (Camden Soc.
     Miscellany, iii, 31). Drummond (died 1649) has “Go fight and
     plunder” (Poems, ed. Turnbull, p. 330). It appears in a
     quotation from The Bellman of London (no reference) given in
     Timbs, London and Westminster, vol. i, p. 254.]

{72} [It is rather from the old Dutch trecker, a ‘puller’. Very few
     English words come to us from German.]

{73} [So Skeat, Etym. Dict. But the Germans themselves take their
     schwindler (in the sense of cheat) to have been adopted from the
     English ‘swindler’. Dr. Dunger asserts that it was introduced into
     their language by Lichtenberg in his explanation of Hogarth’s
     engravings, 1794-99 (Englanderei in der Deutschen Sprache, 1899,
     p. 7).]

{74} Pisgah Sight of Palestine, 1650, p. 217.

{75} [This word introduced as a ‘pure neologism’ by D’Israeli
     (Curiosities of Literature, 1839, 11th ed. p. 384) as a companion
     to ‘mother-tongue’, had been already used by Sir W. Temple in 1672
     (Hall, Mod. English, p. 44). Nay, even by Tyndale, see T. L. K.
     Oliphant, The New English, i, 439.]

{76} [‘Folk-lore’ was introduced by Mr. W. J. Thoms, editor of Notes
     and Queries, in 1846. Still later came ‘Folk-etymology’, the
     earliest use of which in N.E.D. is given as 1883, but the editor’s
     work bearing that title appeared in 1882.]

{77} Holy State, b. 2, c. 6. There was a time when the Latin
     promised to display, if not an equal, yet not a very inferior,
     freedom in this forming of new words by the happy marriage of
     old. But in this, as in so many respects, it seemed possessed at
     the period of its highest culture with a timidity, which caused
     it voluntarily to abdicate many of its own powers. Where do we
     find in the Augustan period of the language so grand a pair of
     epithets as these, occurring as they do in a single line of
     Catullus: Ubi cerva silvicultrix, ubi aper nemorivagus? or
     again, as his ‘fluentisonus’? Virgil’s vitisator (Æn. 7, 179)
     is not his own, but derived from one of the earlier poets. Nay,
     the language did not even retain those compound epithets which it
     once had formed, but was content to let numbers of them drop:
     ‘parcipromus’; ‘turpilucricupidus’, and many more, do not extend
     beyond Plautus. On this matter Quintilian observes (i. 5, 70):
     Res tota magis Græcos decet, nobis minus succedit; nec id fieri
     naturâ puto, sed alienis favemus; ideoque cum κυρταύχενα mirati
     sumus, incurvicervicum vix a risu defendimus. Elsewhere he
     complains, though not with reference to compound epithets, of the
     little generative power which existed in the Latin language,
     that its continual losses were compensated by no equivalent gains
     (viii. 6, 32): Deinde, tanquum consummata sint omnia, nihil
     generare audemus ipsi, quum multa quotidie ab antiquis ficta
     moriantur. Notwithstanding this complaint, it must be owned that
     the silver age of the language, which sought to recover, and did
     recover to some extent the abdicated energies of its earlier
     times, reasserted among other powers that of combining words with
     a certain measure of success.

{78} [For Shakespearian compounds see Abbott’s Shakespearian Grammar,
     pp. 317-20.]

{79} [Writing in the year 1780 Bentham says: “The word it must be
     acknowledged is a new one”.]

{80} Collection of Scarce Tracts, edited by Sir W. Scott, vol. vii, p.
     91.

{81} [Hardly a novelty, as the word occurs in J. Gaule, Πῦς-μαντια,
     1652, p. 30. See F. Hall, Mod. English, p. 131.]

{82} [First used apparently by Grote, 1847, and Mrs. Gaskell, 1857,
     N.E.D.]

{83} See Letters of Horace Walpole and Mann, vol. ii. p. 396, quoted
     in Notes and Queries, No. 225; and another proof of the novelty
     of the word in Pegge’s Anecdotes of the English Language, 1814,
     p. 38.

{84} Postscript to his Translation of the Æneid.

{85} Multa renascentur, quæ jam cecidere.

                          De A. P. 46-72; cf. Ep. 2, 2, 115.

{86} Etymologicon vocum omnium antiquarum quæ usque a Wilhelmo Victore
     invaluerunt, et jam ante parentum ætatem in usu esse desierunt.

{87} [As a matter of fact the N.E.D. fails to give any quotation for
     this word in the period named.]

{88} [The verb ‘to advocate’ had long before been employed by Nash,
     1598, Sanderson, 1624, and Heylin, 1657 (F. Hall, Mod. English,
     p. 285).]

{89} In like manner La Bruyère, in his Caractères, c. 14, laments the
     extinction of a large number of French words which he names. At
     least half of these have now free course in the language, as
     ‘valeureux’, ‘haineux’, ‘peineux’, ‘fructueux’, ‘mensonger’,
     ‘coutumier’, ‘vantard’, ‘courtois’, ‘jovial’, ‘fétoyer’,
     ‘larmoyer’, ‘verdoyer’. Two or three of these may be rarely used,
     but every one would be found in a dictionary of the living
     language.

{90} Preface to Juvenal.

{91} Preface to Troilus and Cressida. In justice to Dryden, and lest
     it should be said that he had spoken poetic blasphemy, it ought not
     to be forgotten that ‘pestered’ had not in his time at all so
     offensive a sense as it would have now. It meant no more than
     inconveniently crowded; thus Milton: “Confined and pestered in
     this pinfold here”.

{92} Thus in North’s Plutarch, p. 499: “After the fire was quenched,
     they found in niggots of gold and silver mingled together, about
     a thousand talents”; and again, p. 323: “There was brought a
     marvellous great mass of treasure in niggots of gold”. The word
     has not found its way into our dictionaries or glossaries.

{93} [‘Niggot’ rather stands for ‘ningot’, due to a coalescence of the
     article in ‘an ingot’ (as if ‘a ningot’); just as, according to
     some, in French l’ingot became lingot.]

{94} [Such collections were essayed in J. C. Hare’s Two Essays in
     English Philology, 1873, “Words derived from Names of Persons”,
     and in R. S. Charnock’s Verba Nominalia, pp. 326.]

{95} [In a strangely similar way the stone-worshipper in the Malay
     Peninsula gives to his sacred boulder the title of Mohammed (Tylor,
     Primitive Culture, 3rd ed. ii. 254).]

{96} [But Wolsey’s jester was most probably so called from his wearing a
     varicoloured or patchwork coat; compare the Shakespearian use of
     ‘motley’. Similarly the maquereaux of the old French comedy were
     clothed in a mottled dress like our harlequin, just as the Latin
     maccus or mime wore a centunculus or patchwork coat, his name
     being perhaps connected with macus (in macula), a spot (Gozzi,
     Memoirs, i, 38). In stage slang the harlequin was called
     patchy, as his Latin counterpart was centunculus.]

{97} [An error. Prof. Skeat shows that ‘tram’ was an old word in
     Scottish and Northern English (Etym. Dict., 655 and 831).]

{98} Several of these we have in common with the French. Of their own
     they have ‘sardanapalisme’, any piece of profuse luxury, from
     Sardanapalus; while for ‘lambiner’, to dally or loiter over a task,
     they are indebted to Denis Lambin, a worthy Greek scholar of the
     sixteenth century, whom his adversaries accused of sluggish
     movement and wearisome diffuseness in style. Every reader of
     Pascal’s Provincial Letters will remember Escobar, the great
     casuist among the Jesuits, whose convenient subterfuges for the
     relaxation of the moral law have there been made famous. To the
     notoriety which he thus acquired he owes his introduction into the
     French language; where ‘escobarder’ is used in the sense of to
     equivocate, and ‘escobarderie’ of subterfuge or equivocation. The
     name of an unpopular minister of finance, M. de Silhouette,
     unpopular because he sought to cut down unnecessary expenses in the
     state, was applied to whatever was cheap, and, as was implied,
     unduly economical; it has survived in the black outline portrait
     which is now called a ‘silhouette’. (Sismondi, Histoire des
     Français, tom. xix, pp. 94, 95.) In the ‘mansarde’ roof we have
     the name of Mansart, the architect who introduced it. I need hardly
     add ‘guillotine’.

{99} See Col. Mure, Language and Literature of Ancient Greece, vol. i,
     p. 350.

{100} See Génin, Des Variations du Langage Français, p. 12.

{101} [Dr. Murray in the N.E.D. calls these by the convenient term
      ‘nonce-words’.]

{102} Persa, iv. 6, 20-23. At the same time these words may be earnest
      enough; such was the ἐλαχιστότερος of St. Paul (Ephes. iii, 8);
      just as in the Middle Ages some did not account it sufficient to
      call themselves “fratres minores, minimi, postremi”, but coined
      ‘postremissimi’ to express the depth of their “voluntary
      humility”.

{103} It is curious that a correspondent of Skinner (Etymologicon,
      1671), although quite ignorant of this story, and indeed wholly
      astray in his application, had suggested that ‘chouse’ might be
      thus connected with the Turkish ‘chiaus’. I believe Gifford, in
      his edition of Ben Jonson, was the first to clear up the matter. A
      passage in The Alchemist (Act i. Sc. 1) will have put him on the
      right track. [But Dr. Murray notes that Gifford’s story, as given
      above, has not hitherto been substantiated from any independent
      source, and is so far open to doubt.]

{104} [These are quite distinct words, though perhaps distantly
      related.]

{105} If there were any doubt about this matter, which indeed there is
      not, a reference to Latimer’s famous Sermon on Cards would
      abundantly remove it, where ‘triumph’ and ‘trump’ are
      interchangeably used.

{106} [Dr. Murray does not regard these words as ultimately identical.]

{107} [‘Rant’ (old Dutch ranten) has no connection with ‘rend’
      (Anglo-Saxon hrendan) (Skeat).]

{108} On these words see a learned discussion in English Retraced,
      Cambridge, 1862.

{109} [These are quite unconnected (Skeat).]

{110} [Neither are these words to be confused with one another.]

{111} The appropriating of ‘Frances’ to women and ‘Francis’ to men
      is quite of modern introduction; it was formerly nearly as often
      Sir Frances Drake as Sir Francis, while Fuller (Holy State,
      b. iv, c. 14) speaks of Francis Brandon, eldest daughter of
      Charles Brandon, Duke of Suffolk; and see Ben Jonson’s New Inn,
      Act. ii, Sc. 1.

{112} [Not connected.]

{113} [‘Sad’ akin to ‘sated’ bears no relationship to ‘set’; neither
      does ‘medley’ to ‘motley’.]

{114} [On the connection of these words see my Folk and their
      Word-Lore, p. 110.]

{115} [Not connected, see Skeat.]

{116} Were there need of proving that these both lie in ‘beneficium’,
      which there is not, for in Wiclif’s translation of the Bible the
      distinction is still latent (1 Tim. vi. 2), one might adduce a
      singularly characteristic little trait of Papal policy, which once
      turned upon the double use of this word. Pope Adrian the Fourth
      writing to the Emperor Frederic the First to complain of certain
      conduct of his, reminded the Emperor that he had placed the
      imperial crown upon his head, and would willingly have conferred
      even greater ‘beneficia’ upon him than this. Had the word been
      allowed to pass, it would no doubt have been afterwards appealed
      to as an admission on the Emperor’s part, that he held the Empire
      as a feud or fief (for ‘beneficium’ was then the technical word
      for this, though the meaning had much narrowed since) from the
      Pope--the very point in dispute between them. The word was
      indignantly repelled by the Emperor and the whole German nation,
      whereupon the Pope appealed to the etymology, that ‘beneficium’
      was but ‘bonum factum’, and protested that he meant no more than
      to remind the Emperor of the ‘benefits’ which he had done him, and
      which he would have willingly multiplied still more. [‘Benefice’
      from Latin beneficium, and ‘benefit’ from Latin bene-factum,
      are here confused.]

{117} [‘Hoard’ (Anglo-Saxon hord) cannot be equated with ‘horde’ (from
      Persian órdú).]

{118} [These words have been differentiated in comparatively modern
      times. ‘Ingenuity’ was once used for ‘ingenuousness’.]

{119} [The words are really unconnected, ‘to gamble’ being ‘to gamle’ or
      ‘game’, and ‘to gambol’ being akin to French gambiller, to fling
      up the legs (gambes or jambes) like a frisking lamb.]

{120} The same happens in other languages. Thus in Greek ‘ἀνάθεμα’ and
      ‘ἀνάθημα’ both signify that which is devoted, though in very
      different senses, to the gods; ‘θάρσος’, boldness, and ‘θράσος’,
      temerity, were no more at first than different spellings of the
      same word; not otherwise is it with γρῖπος and γρῖφος, ἔθος and
      ἦθος, βρύκω and βρύχω, while ὀβελὸς and ὀβολὸς, σορὸς and σωρὸς,
      are probably the same words. So too in Latin ‘penna’ and ‘pinna’
      differ only in form, and signify alike a ‘wing’; while yet ‘penna’
      has come to be used for the wing of a bird, ‘pinna’ (its
      diminutive ‘pinnaculum’, has given us ‘pinnacle’) for that of a
      building. So is it with ‘Thrax’ a Thracian, and ‘Threx’ a
      gladiator; with ‘codex’ and ‘caudex’; ‘forfex’ and ‘forceps’;
      ‘anticus’ and ‘antiquus’; ‘celeber’ and ‘creber’; ‘infacetus’ and
      ‘inficetus’; ‘providentia’, ‘prudentia’, and ‘provincia’;
      ‘columen’ and ‘culmen’; ‘coitus’ and ‘cœtus’; ‘ægrimonia’ and
      ‘ærumna’; ‘Lucina’ and ‘luna’; ‘navita’ and ‘nauta’; in German
      with ‘rechtlich’ and ‘redlich’; ‘schlecht’ and ‘schlicht’;
      ‘ahnden’ and ‘ahnen’; ‘biegsam’ and ‘beugsam’; ‘fürsehung’ and
      ‘vorsehung’; ‘deich’ and ‘teich’; ‘trotz’ and ‘trutz’; ‘born’ and
      ‘brunn’; ‘athem’ and ‘odem’; in French with ‘harnois’ the armour,
      or ‘harness’, of a soldier, ‘harnais’ of a horse; with ‘Zéphire’
      and ‘zéphir’, and with many more.

{121} Coleridge, Church and State, p. 200.

{122} [One hardly expects to find this otiose Americanism (first used by
      J. Adams in 1759) in the work of a verbal purist, when ‘longish’
      or the old ‘longsome’ were at hand. No one, as yet, has ventured
      on ‘strengthy’ or ‘breadthy’ for somewhat strong or broad.]

{123} [This prediction was correct. ‘Dissimilation’ is first found in
      philological works published in the decade 1874-85. See N.E.D.]

{124} [Coblenz, at the junction of the Moselle and Rhine (from
      Confluentes), reminds us that the word was so used.]

{125} A passage from Hacket’s Life of Archbishop Williams, part 2, p.
      144, marks the first rise of this word, and the quarter from
      whence it arose: “When they [the Presbyterians] saw that he was
      not selfish (it is a word of their own new mint), etc”. In
      Whitlock’s Zootomia (1654) there is another indication of it as
      a novelty, p. 364: “If constancy may be tainted with this
      selfishness (to use our new wordings of old and general
      actings)”--It is he who in his striking essay, The Grand
      Schismatic, or Suist Anatomized, puts forward his own words,
      ‘suist’, and ‘suicism’, in lieu of those which have ultimately
      been adopted. ‘Suicism’, let me observe, had not in his time the
      obvious objection of resembling another word nearly, and being
      liable to be confused with it; for ‘suicide’ did not then exist in
      the language, nor indeed till some twenty years later. The coming
      up of ‘suicide’ is marked by this passage in Phillips’ New World
      of Words, 1671, 3rd ed.: “Nor less to be exploded is the word
      ‘suicide’, which may as well seem to participate of sus a sow,
      as of the pronoun sui”. In the Index to Jackson’s Works,
      published two years later, it is still ‘suicidium’--“the horrid
      suicidium of the Jews at York”. ‘Suicide’ is apparently of much
      later introduction into French. Génin (Récréations Philol. vol.
      i, p. 194) places it about the year 1728, and makes the Abbé
      Desfontaines its first sponsor. He is wrong, as the words just
      quoted show, in supposing that we borrowed it from the French, or
      that the word did not exist in English till the middle of last
      century. The French sometimes complain that the fashion of suicide
      was borrowed from England. It would seem at all events probable
      that the word was so borrowed.

      Let me urge here the advantage of a complete collection, or one as
      nearly complete as the industry of the collectors would allow, of
      all the notices in our literature, which mark, and would serve as
      dates for, the first incoming of new words into the language.
      These notices are of the most various kinds. Sometimes they are
      protests and remonstrances, as that just quoted, against a new
      word’s introduction; sometimes they are gratulations at the same;
      while many hold themselves neuter as to approval or disapproval,
      and merely state, or allow us to gather, the fact of a word’s
      recent appearance. There are not a few of these notices in
      Richardson’s Dictionary: thus one from Lord Bacon under ‘essay’;
      from Swift under ‘banter’; from Sir Thomas Elyot under
      ‘mansuetude’; from Lord Chesterfield under ‘flirtation’; from
      Davies and Marlowe’s Epigrams under ‘gull’; from Roger North
      under ‘sham’ (Appendix); the third quotation from Dryden under
      ‘mob’; one from the same under ‘philanthropy’, and again under
      ‘witticism’, in which he claims the authorship of the word; that
      from Evelyn under ‘miss’; and from Milton under ‘demagogue’. There
      are also notices of the same kind in Todd’s Johnson. The work,
      however, is one which no single scholar could hope to accomplish,
      which could only be accomplished by many lovers of their native
      tongue throwing into a common stock the results of their several
      studies. The sources from which these illustrative passages might
      be gathered cannot beforehand be enumerated, inasmuch as it is
      difficult to say in what unexpected quarter they would not
      sometimes be found, although some of these sources are obvious
      enough. As a very slight sample of what might be done in this way
      by the joint contributions of many, let me throw together
      references to a few passages of the kind which I do not think have
      found their way into any of our dictionaries. Thus add to that
      which Richardson has quoted on ‘banter’, another from The
      Tatler, No. 230. On ‘plunder’ there are two instructive passages
      in Fuller’s Church History, b. xi, § 4, 33; and b. ix, § 4; and
      one in Heylin’s Animadversions thereupon, p. 196. On ‘admiralty’
      see a note in Harington’s Ariosto, book 19; on ‘maturity’ Sir
      Thomas Elyot’s Governor, b. i, c. 22; and on ‘industry’ the
      same, b. i, c. 23; on ‘neophyte’ a notice in Fulke’s Defence of
      the English Bible, Parker Society’s edition, p. 586; and on
      ‘panorama’, and marking its recent introduction (it is not in
      Johnson), a passage in Pegge’s Anecdotes of the English
      Language, first published in 1803, but my reference is to the
      edition of 1814, p. 306; on ‘accommodate’, and supplying a date
      for its first coming into popular use, see Shakespeare’s 2 Henry
      IV. Act 3, Sc. 2; on ‘shrub’, Junius’ Etymologicon, s. v.
      ‘syrup’; on ‘sentiment’ and ‘cajole’ Skinner, s. vv., in his
      Etymologicon (‘vox nuper civitate donata’); and on ‘opera’
      Evelyn’s Memoirs and Diary, 1827, vol. i, pp. 189, 190. In such
      a collection should be included those passages of our literature
      which supply implicit evidence for the non-existence of a word up
      to a certain moment. It may be urged that it is difficult, nay
      impossible, to prove a negative; and yet a passage like this from
      Bolingbroke makes certain that when it was written the word
      ‘isolated’ did not exist in our language: “The events we are
      witnesses of in the course of the longest life, appear to us very
      often original, unprepared, signal and unrelative: if I may use
      such a word for want of a better in English. In French I would say
      isolés” (Notes and Queries, No. 226). Compare Lord
      Chesterfield in a letter to Bishop Chenevix, of date March 12,
      1767: “I have survived almost all my cotemporaries, and as I am
      too old to make new acquaintances, I find myself isolé”. So,
      too, it is pretty certain that ‘amphibious’ was not yet English,
      when one writes (in 1618): “We are like those creatures called
      ἀμφίβια, who live in water or on land”. Ζωολογία, the title of a
      book published in 1649, makes it clear that ‘zoology’ was not yet
      in our vocabulary, as ζωόφυτον (Jackson) proves the same for
      ‘zoophyte’, and πολυθεϊσμος (Gell) for ‘polytheism’. One
      precaution, let me observe, would be necessary in the collecting,
      or rather in the adopting of any statements about the newness of a
      word--for the passages themselves, even when erroneous, ought not
      the less to be noted--namely, that, where there is the least
      motive for suspicion, no one’s affirmation ought to be accepted
      simply and at once as to the novelty of a word; for all here are
      liable to error. Thus more than one which Sir Thomas Elyot
      indicates as new in his time, ‘magnanimity’ for example (The
      Governor, 2, 14), are to be met in Chaucer. When Skinner affirmed
      of ‘sentiment’ that it had only recently obtained the rights of
      English citizenship from the translators of French books, he was
      altogether mistaken, this word being also one of continual
      recurrence in Chaucer. An intelligent correspondent gives in
      Notes and Queries, No. 225, a useful catalogue of recent
      neologies in our speech, which yet would require to be used with
      caution, for there are at least half a dozen in the list which
      have not the smallest right to be so considered.

{126} There is an admirable Essay by Leibnitz with this view (Opera,
      vol. vi, part 2, pp. 6-51) in French and German, with this title,
      Considérations sur la Culture et la Perfection de la Langue
      Allemande.

{127} Zur Geschichte und Beurtheilung der Fremdwörter im Deutschen,
      von. Aug. Fuchs, Dessau, 1842, pp. 85-91.

III

DIMINUTIONS OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE

I took occasion to observe at the commencement of my last lecture that it is the essential
character of a living language to be in flux{128} and flow, to be gaining and losing; the words
which constitute it as little continuing exactly the same, or in the same relations to one
another, as do the atoms which at any one moment make up our bodies remain for ever without
subtraction or addition. As I then undertook for my especial subject to trace some of the acquisitions
which our own language had made, I shall consider in the present some of the losses, or at
any rate diminutions, which during the same period it has endured. But it will be well here,
by one or two remarks going before, to avert any possible misapprehensions of my meaning.

It is certain that all languages must, or at least all languages do in the end, perish. They
run their course; not at all at the same rate, for the tendency to change is different in different
languages, both from internal causes (mechanism and the like), and also from causes external
to the language, laid in the varying velocities of social progress and social decline; but
so it is, that whether of shorter or longer life, they have their youth, their manhood, their
old age, their decrepitude, their final dissolution. Not indeed that, even when this last hour
has arrived, they disappear, leaving no traces behind them. On the contrary, out of their death
a new life comes forth; they pass into new forms, the materials of which they were composed
more or less survive, but these now organized in new shapes and according to other laws of
life. Thus for example, the Latin perishes as a living language, but a chief part of the words
that composed it live on in the four daughter languages, French, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese;
or the six, if we count the Provençal and Wallachian; not a few in our own. Still in their
own proper being languages perish and pass away; there are dead records of what they were in
books; not living men who speak them any more. Seeing then that they thus die, they must have
had the germs of a possible decay and death in them from the beginning.

{Sidenote: Languages Gain and Lose}

Nor is this all; but in such mighty strong built fabrics as these, the causes which thus bring
about their final dissolution must have been actually at work very long before the results
began to be visible. Indeed, very often it is with them as with states, which, while in some
respects they are knitting and strengthening, in others are already unfolding the seeds of
their future and, it may be, still remote overthrow. Equally in these and those, in states
and in languages, it would be a serious mistake to assume that all up to a certain point and
period is growth and gain, while all after is decay and loss. On the contrary, there are long
periods during which growth in some directions is going hand in hand with decay in others;
losses in one kind are being compensated, or more than compensated, by gains in another; during
which a language changes, but only as the bud changes into the flower, and the flower into
the fruit. A time indeed arrives when the growth and gains, becoming ever fewer, cease to constitute
any longer a compensation for the losses and the decay; which are ever becoming more; when
the forces of disorganization and death at work are stronger than those of life and order.
It is from this moment the decline of a language may properly be dated. But until that crisis
and turning point has arrived, we may be quite justified in speaking of the losses of a language,
and may esteem them most real, without in the least thereby implying that the period of its
commencing degeneracy has begun. This may yet be far distant, and therefore when I dwell on
certain losses and diminutions which our own has undergone, or is undergoing, you will not
conclude that I am seeking to present it to you as now travelling the downward course to dissolution
and death. This is very far from my intention. If in some respects it is losing, in others
it is gaining. Nor is everything which it lets go, a loss; for this too, the parting with a
word in which there is no true help, the dropping of a cumbrous or superfluous form, may itself
be sometimes a most real gain. English is undoubtedly becoming different from what it has been;
but only different in that it is passing into another stage of its development; only different,
as the fruit is different from the flower, and the flower from the bud; having changed its
merits, but not having renounced them; possessing, it may be, less of beauty, but more of usefulness;
not, perhaps, serving the poet so well, but serving the historian and philosopher and theologian
better than before.

One observation more let me make, before entering on the special details of my subject. It
is this. The losses and diminutions of a language differ in one respect from its gains and
acquisitions--namely, that they are of two kinds, while its gains are only of one. Its gains
are only in words; it never puts forth in the course of its evolution a new power; it never
makes for itself a new case, or a new tense, or a new comparative. But its losses are both
in words and in powers--in words of course, but in powers also: it leaves behind it, as it
travels onwards, cases which it once possessed; renounces the employment of tenses which it
once used; forgets its dual; is content with one termination both for masculine and feminine,
and so on. Nor is this a peculiar feature of one language, but the universal law of all. “In
all languages”, as has been well said, “there is a constant tendency to relieve themselves
of that precision which chooses a fresh symbol for every shade of meaning, to lessen the amount
of nice distinction, and detect as it were a royal road to the interchange of opinion”. For
example, a vast number of languages had at an early period of their development, besides the
singular and plural, a dual number, some even a trinal, which they have let go at a later.
But what I mean by a language renouncing its powers will, I trust, be more clear to you before
my lecture is concluded. This much I have here said on the matter, to explain and justify a
division which I shall make, considering first the losses of the English language in words,
and then in powers.

{Sidenote: Words become Extinct}

And first, there is going forward a continual extinction of the words in our language--as indeed
in every other. When I speak of this, the dying out of words, I do not refer to mere tentative,
experimental words, not a few of which I adduced in my last lecture, words offered to the language,
but not accepted by it; I refer rather to such as either belonged to the primitive stock of
the language, or if not so, which had been domiciled in it long, that they might have been
supposed to have found in it a lasting home. Thus not a few pure Anglo-Saxon words which lived
on into the times of our early English, have subsequently dropped out of our vocabulary, sometimes
leaving a gap which has never since been filled, but their places oftener taken by others which
have come up in their room. Not to mention those of Chaucer and Wiclif, which are very numerous,
many held their ground to far later periods, and yet have finally given way. That beautiful
word ‘wanhope’ for despair, hope which has so waned that now there is an entire want of it,
was in use down to the reign of Elizabeth; it occurs so late as in the poems of Gascoigne{129}.
‘Skinker’ for cupbearer, (an ungraceful word, no doubt) is used by Shakespeare and lasted till
Dryden’s time and beyond.

Spenser uses often ‘to welk’ (welken) in the sense of to fade, ‘to sty’ for to mount, ‘to hery’
as to glorify or praise, ‘to halse’ as to embrace, ‘teene’ as vexation or grief: Shakespeare
‘to tarre’ as to provoke, ‘to sperr’ as to enclose or bar in; ‘to sag’ for to droop, or hang
the head downward. Holland employs ‘geir’{130} for vulture (“vultures or geirs”), ‘specht’
for woodpecker, ‘reise’ for journey, ‘frimm’ for lusty or strong. ‘To schimmer’ occurs in Bishop
Hall; ‘to tind’, that is, to kindle, and surviving in ‘tinder’, is used by Bishop Sanderson;
‘to nimm’, or take, as late as by Fuller. A rogue is a ‘skellum’ in Sir Thomas Urquhart. ‘Nesh’
in the sense of soft through moisture, ‘leer’ in that of empty, ‘eame’ in that of uncle, mother’s
brother (the German ‘oheim’), good Saxon-English once, still live on in some of our provincial
dialects; so does ‘flitter-mouse’ or ‘flutter-mouse’ (mus volitans), where we should use bat.
Indeed of those above named several do the same; it is so with ‘frimm’, with ‘to sag’, ‘to
nimm’. ‘Heft’ employed by Shakespeare in the sense of weight, is still employed in the same
sense by our peasants in Hampshire{131}.

{Sidenote: Vigorous Compound Words}

A number of vigorous compounds we have dropped and let go. ‘Earsports’ for entertainments of
song or music (ἀκροάματα) is a constantly recurring word in Holland’s Plutarch. Were it not
for Shakespeare, we should have quite forgotten that young men of hasty fiery valour were called
‘hotspurs’; and even now we regard the word rather as the proper name of one than that which
would have been once alike the designation of all{132}. Fuller warns men that they should not
‘witwanton’ with God. Severe austere old men, such as, in Falstaff’s words would “hate us youth”,
were ‘grimsirs’, or ‘grimsires’ once (Massinger). ‘Realmrape’ (=usurpation), occurring in The
Mirror for Magistrates, is a vigorous word. ‘Rootfast’ and ‘rootfastness’{133} were ill lost,
being worthy to have lived; so too was Lord Brooke’s ‘bookhunger’; and Baxter’s ‘word-warriors’,
with which term he noted those whose strife was only about words. ‘Malingerer’ is familiar
enough to military men, but I do not find it in our dictionaries; being the soldier who, out
of evil will (malin gré) to his work, shams and shirks and is not found in the ranks{134}.

Those who would gladly have seen the Anglo-Saxon to have predominated over the Latin element
in our language, even more than it actually has done, must note with regret that in many instances
a word of the former stock had been dropped, and a Latin coined to supply its place; or where
the two once existed side by side, the Saxon has died, and the Latin lived on. Thus Wiclif
employed ‘soothsaw’, where we now use proverb; ‘sourdough’, where we employ leaven; ‘wellwillingness’
for benevolence; ‘againbuying’ for redemption; ‘againrising’ for resurrection; ‘undeadliness’
for immortality; ‘uncunningness’ for ignorance; ‘aftercomer’ for descendant; ‘greatdoingly’
for magnificently; ‘to afterthink’ (still in use in Lancashire) for to repent; ‘medeful’, which
has given way to meritorious; ‘untellable’ for ineffable; ‘dearworth’ for precious; Chaucer
has ‘forword’ for promise; Sir John Cheke ‘freshman’ for proselyte; ‘mooned’ for lunatic; ‘foreshewer’
for prophet; ‘hundreder’ for centurion; Jewel ‘foretalk’, where we now employ preface; Holland
‘sunstead’ where we use solstice; ‘leechcraft’ instead of medicine; and another, ‘wordcraft’
for logic; ‘starconner’ (Gascoigne) did service once, if not instead of astrologer, yet side
by side with it; ‘halfgod’ (Golding) had the advantage over ‘demigod’, that it was all of one
piece; ‘to eyebite’ (Holland) told its story at least as well as to fascinate; ‘shriftfather’
as confessor; ‘earshrift’ (Cartwright) is only two syllables, while ‘auricular confession’
is eight; ‘waterfright’ is a better word than our awkward Greek hydrophobia. The lamprey (lambens
petram) was called once the ‘suckstone’ or the ‘lickstone’; and the anemone the ‘windflower’.
‘Umstroke’, if it had lived on (it appears as late as Fuller, though our dictionaries know
nothing of it), might have made ‘circumference’ and ‘periphery’ unnecessary. ‘Wanhope’, as
we saw just now, has given place to despair, ‘middler’ to mediator; and it would be easy to
increase this list.

{Sidenote: Local and Provincial English}

I had occasion just now to notice the fact that many words survive in our provincial dialects,
long after they have died out from the main body of the speech. The fact is one connected with
so much of deep interest in the history of language that I cannot pass it thus slightly over.
It is one which, rightly regarded, may assist to put us in a just point of view for estimating
the character of the local and provincial in speech, and rescuing it from that unmerited contempt
and neglect with which it is often regarded. I must here go somewhat further back than I could
wish; but only so, only by looking at the matter in connexion with other phenomena of speech,
can I hope to explain to you the worth and significance which local and provincial words and
usages must oftentimes possess.

Let us then first suppose a portion of those speaking a language to have been separated off
from the main body of its speakers, either through their forsaking for one cause or other of
their native seats, or by the intrusion of a hostile people, like a wedge, between them and
the others, forcibly keeping them asunder, and cutting off their communications one with the
other, as the Saxons intruded between the Britons of Cornwall and of Wales. In such a case
it will inevitably happen that before very long differences of speech will begin to reveal
themselves between those to whom even dialectic distinctions may have been once unknown. The
divergences will be of various kinds. Idioms will come up in the separated body, which, not
being recognized and allowed by those who remain the arbiters of the language, will be esteemed
by them, should they come under their notice, violations of its law, or at any rate departures
from its purity. Again, where a colony has gone forth into new seats, and exists under new
conditions, it is probable that the necessities, physical and moral, rising out of these new
conditions, will give birth to words, which there will be nothing to call out among those who
continue in the old haunts of the nation. Intercourse with new tribes and people will bring
in new words, as, for instance, contact with the Indian tribes of North America has given to
American English a certain number of words hardly or not at all allowed or known by us; or
as the presence of a large Dutch population at the Cape has given to the English spoken there
many words, as ‘inspan’, ‘outspan’{135}, ‘spoor’, of which our home English knows nothing.

{Sidenote: Antiquated English}

There is another cause, however, which will probably be more effectual than all these, namely,
that words will in process of time be dropped by those who constitute the original stock of
the nation, which will not be dropped by the offshoot; idioms which those have overlived, and
have stored up in the unhonoured lumber-room of the past, will still be in use and currency
among the smaller and separated section which has gone forth; and thus it will come to pass
that what seems and in fact is the newer swarm, will have many older words, and very often
an archaic air and old-world fashion both about the words they use, their way of pronouncing,
their order and manner of combining them. Thus after the Conquest we know that our insular
French gradually diverged from the French of the Continent. The Prioress in Chaucer’s Canterbury
Tales could speak her French “full faire and fetishly”, but it was French, as the poet slyly adds,

    “After the scole of Stratford atte bow,
    For French of Paris was to hire unknowe”.

One of our old chroniclers, writing in the reign of Elizabeth, informs us that by the English
colonists within the Pale in Ireland numerous words were preserved in common use, “the dregs
of the old ancient Chaucer English”, as he contemptuously calls it, which had become quite
obsolete and forgotten in England itself. For example, they still called a spider an ‘attercop’--a
word, by the way, still in popular use in the North;--a physician a ‘leech’, as in poetry he
still is called; a dunghill was still for them a ‘mixen’; (the word is still common all over
England in this sense;) a quadrangle or base court was a ‘bawn’{136}; they employed ‘uncouth’
in the earlier sense of unknown. Nay more, their general manner of speech was so different,
though containing English still, that Englishmen at their first coming over often found it
hard or impossible to comprehend. We have another example of the same in what took place after
the revocation of the Edict of Nantes, and the consequent formation of colonies of Protestant
French emigrants in various places, especially in Amsterdam and other chief cities of Holland.
There gradually grew up among these what came to be called ‘refugee French’, which within a
generation or two diverged in several particulars from the classical language of France; its
divergence being mainly occasioned by this, that it remained stationary, while the classical
language was in motion; it retained usages and words, which the latter had dismissed{137}.

{Sidenote: Provincial English}

Nor is it otherwise in respect of our English provincialisms. It is true that our country people
who in the main employ them, have not been separated by distance of space, nor yet by insurmountable
obstacles intervening, from the main body of their fellow-countrymen; but they have been quite
as effectually divided by deficient education. They have been, if not locally, yet intellectually,
kept at a distance from the onward march of the nation’s mind; and of them also it is true
that many of their words, idioms, turns of speech, which we are ready to set down as vulgarisms,
solecisms of speech, violations of the primary rules of grammar, do merely attest that those
who employ them have not kept abreast with the advance of the language and nation, but have
been left behind by it. The usages are only local in the fact that, having once been employed
by the whole body of the English people, they have now receded from the lips of all except
those in some certain country districts, who have been more faithful than others to the tradition
of the past{138}.

It is thus in respect of a multitude of isolated words, which were excellent Anglo-Saxon, which
were excellent early English, and which only are not excellent present English, because use,
which is the supreme arbiter in these matters, has decided against their further employment.
Several of these I enumerated just now. It is thus also with several grammatical forms and
flexions. For instance, where we decline the plural of “I sing”, “we sing”, “ye sing”, “they
sing”, there are parts of England in which they would decline, “we singen”, “ye singen”, “they
singen”. This is not indeed the original form of the plural, but it is that form of it which,
coming up about Chaucer’s time, was just going out in Spenser’s; he, though we must ever keep
in mind that he does not fairly represent the language of his time, or indeed of any time,
affecting a certain artificial archaism both in words and forms, continually uses it{139}.
After him it becomes ever rarer, the last of whom I am aware as occasionally using it being
Fuller, until it quite disappears.

{Sidenote: Earlier and Later English}

Of such as may now employ forms like these we must say, not that they violate the laws of the
language, but only that they have taken their permanent stand at a point which was only a point
of transition, and which it has now left behind, and overlived. Thus, to take examples which
you may hear at the present day in almost any part of England--a countryman will say, “He made
me afeard”; or “The price of corn ris last market day”; or “I will axe him his name”; or “I
tell ye”. You would probably set these phrases down for barbarous English. They are not so
at all; in one sense they are quite as good English as “He made me afraid”; or “The price of
corn rose last market day”; or “I will ask him his name”. ‘Afeard’, used by Spenser, is the
regular participle of the old verb to ‘affear’, still existing as a law term, as ‘afraid’ is
of to ‘affray’, and just as good English{140}; ‘ris’ or ‘risse’ is an old præterite of ‘to
rise’; to ‘axe’ is not a mispronunciation of ‘to ask’, but a genuine English form of the word,
the form which in the earlier English it constantly assumed; in Wiclif’s Bible almost without
exception; and indeed ‘axe’ occurs continually, I know not whether invariably, in Tyndale’s
translation of the Scriptures; there was a time when ‘ye’ was an accusative, and to have used
it as a nominative or vocative, the only permitted uses at present, would have been incorrect.
Even such phrases as “Put them things away”; or “The man what owns the horse” are not bad,
but only antiquated English{141}. Saying this, I would not in the least imply that these forms
are open to you to employ, or that they would be good English for you. They would not; inasmuch
as they are contrary to present use and custom, and these must be our standards in what we
speak, and in what we write; just as in our buying and selling we are bound to employ the current
coin of the realm, must not attempt to pass that which long since has been called in, whatever
merits or intrinsic value it may possess. All which I affirm is that the phrases just brought
forward represent past stages of the language, and are not barbarous violations of it.

{Sidenote: Luncheon, Nuncheon}

The same may be asserted of certain ways of pronouncing words, which are now in use among the
lower classes, but not among the higher; as, for example, ‘contrāry’, ‘mischiēvous’, ‘blasphēmous’,
instead of ‘contrăry’, ‘mischiĕvous’, ‘blasphĕmous’. It would be abundantly easy to show by
a multitude of quotations from our poets, and those reaching very far down, that these are
merely the retention of the earlier pronunciation by the people, after the higher classes have
abandoned it{142}. And on the strength of what has just been spoken, let me here suggest to
you how well worth your while it will prove to be on the watch for provincial words and inflexions,
local idioms and modes of pronunciation, and to take note of these. Count nothing in this kind
beneath your notice. Do not at once ascribe anything which you hear to the ignorance or stupidity
of the speaker. Thus if you hear ‘nuncheon’, do not at once set it down for a malformation
of ‘luncheon’{143}, nor ‘yeel’{144}, of ‘eel’. Lists and collections of provincial usage, such
as I have suggested, always have their value. If you are not able to turn them to any profit
yourselves, and they may not stand in close enough connexion with your own studies for this,
yet there always are those who will thank you for them; and to whom the humblest of these collections,
carefully and intelligently made, will be in one way or another of real assistance{145}. And
there is the more need to urge this at the present, because, notwithstanding the tenacity with
which our country folk cling to their old forms and usages, still these forms and usages must
now be rapidly growing fewer; and there are forces, moral and material, at work in England,
which will probably cause that of those which now survive the greater part will within the
next fifty years have disappeared{146}.

{Sidenote: ‘Its’ of Late Introduction}

Before quitting this subject, let me instance one example more of that which is commonly accounted
ungrammatical usage, but which is really the retention of old grammar by some, where others
have substituted new; I mean the constant application by our rustic population in the south,
and I dare say through all parts of England, of ‘his’ to inanimate objects, and to these not
personified, no less than to persons; where ‘its’ would be employed by others. This was once
the manner of speech among all; for ‘its’ is a word of very recent introduction, many would
be surprised to learn of how recent introduction, into the language. You will look for it in
vain through the whole of our Authorized Version of the Bible; the office which it now fulfils
being there accomplished, as our rustics accomplish it at the present, by ‘his’ (Gen. i. 11;
Exod. xxxvii. 17; Matt. v. 15) or ‘her’ (Jon. i. 15; Rev. xxii. 2) applied as freely to inanimate
things as to persons, or else by ‘thereof’ (Ps. lxv. 10) or ‘of it’ (Dan. vii. 5). Nor may
Lev. xx. 5 be urged as invalidating this assertion; for reference to the exemplar edition of
1611, or indeed to any earlier editions of King James’ Bible, will show that in them the passage
stood, “of it own accord”{147}. ‘Its’ occurs very rarely in Shakespeare, in many of his plays
it will not once be found. Milton also for the most part avoids it, and this, though in his
time others freely allowed it. How soon all this was forgotten we have striking evidence in
the fact that when Dryden, in one of his fault-finding moods with the great men of the preceding
generation, is taking Ben Jonson to task for general inaccuracy in his English diction, among
other counts of his indictment, he quotes this line from Catiline

    “Though heaven should speak with all his wrath at once”,

and proceeds, “heaven is ill syntax with his”; while in fact up to within forty or fifty years
of the time when Dryden began to write, no other syntax was known; and to a much later date
was exceedingly rare. Curious also, is it to note that in the earnest controversy which followed
on Chatterton’s publication of the poems ascribed by him to a monk Rowlie, who should have
lived in the fifteenth century, no one appealed to such lines as the following,

    “Life and all its goods I scorn”,

as at once deciding that the poems were not of the age which they pretended. Warton, who denied,
though with some hesitation, the antiquity of the poems, giving many and sufficient reasons
for this denial, failed to take note of this little word; while yet there needed no more than
to point it out, for the disposing of the whole question; the forgery at once was betrayed.

{Sidenote: American English}

What has been here affirmed concerning our provincial English, namely that it is often old
English rather than bad English, may be affirmed with equal right of many so-called Americanisms.
There are parts of America where ‘het’ is used, or was used a few years since, as the perfect
of ‘to heat’; ‘holp’ as the perfect of ‘to help’; ‘stricken’ as the participle of ‘to strike’.
Again there are the words which have become obsolete during the last two hundred years, which
have not become obsolete there, although many of them probably retain only a provincial existence.
Thus ‘slick’, which indeed is only another form of ‘sleek’, was employed by our good writers
of the seventeenth century{148}. Other words again, which have remained current on both sides
of the Atlantic, have yet on our side receded from their original use, while they have remained
true to it on the other. ‘Plunder’ is a word in point{149}.

