When the Substantive proper (the Nominative Case) passes over and becomes functionally a SUBJECT
(we will consider, first, the case where the Verb is Active Transitive, and the Subject therefore
an Agent), we pass from Statism to Motism; or from Rest to Movement. This is, at the same time,
to pass from the Domain or Kingdom of Space to the Kingdom or Domain of Time (or Tense).

Noun-dom (in its largest extension, including Nouns Substantive and Nouns Adjective, together
with their Words of Relation, Prepositions and Conjunctions) constitutes, therefore, the STATISMUS
(or Domain of the Principle of Rest) within the RELATIONISMUS (or Domain of Parts and their
Construction, or Syntaxis into a whole) of the larger Domain of Language, which might then
be properly denominated the Linguismus of the Universe. (Every new Science has to have its
new nomenclature. Let the reader not be repelled, therefore, by these innovations upon the
speech usages of our Language; their great convenience, and their actual necessity even for
the right discussion of the subject, furnishing their sufficient apology.)

To determine what the limits of the corresponding Domain are in the Universe at large, and
its proper technical designation, it is only necessary to go back upon the analogues already
indicated. We have, then, the Statismus of the Relationismus of the Universe; which is the
Structural Universe, viewed in respect to the relationship between the parts and the whole,
and as if arrested in Space, or, what is the same thing, abstracted from Movement in Time.

In going over to the new Domain in Language,--the Grammar of the Verb and Participle,--we pass
then, technically speaking, to the MOTISMUS of the RELATIONISMUS of Language; and in going
over to the corresponding Domain of the Universe at large, we pass to the MOTISMUS of the RELATIONISMUS
of the Universe, in which action and the relations between actions are concerned.

Since Motion and Action involve the idea of Force or Power, for which the Greek word is dynamis,
furnishing the English words Dynamic and Dynamics, our Philosophers have chosen the distinction
Static and Dynamic, instead of Static and Motic, the true distinction, and have in that way
obscured and disguised from themselves even the fundamental and all-important relationship
of these two great Aspects of Being, with the two great negative Grounds or Containers of all
Being; namely, with SPACE and with TIME respectively.

It is here, in the Domain of Movement and Time, the Motismus of Language, and especially of
Grammar,--the Relationismus of Language,--that the Grand Lingual Illustration or Type of the
Second Subdivision of Kant's Group of Relation occurs;--the subdivision which he should have
denominated Tempic, as distinguished from the former Subdivision (of Substance and Inherence),
which should then have been called Spacic.

This Tempic Sub-Group of Relation again subdivides, as already stated, into 1. CAUSE, and 2.
DEPENDENCE.

The Subject of a Proposition, in the Active Voice, which is the Typical or Direct Expression
of Action, is the AGENT or Actor in the performance of the given Action. To be an agent is
to act; and to act is to exhibit an effect, the Cause of which resides in the Agent. Agent
and Cause are thus identified. In other words, the Nominative Case, in the Active Transitive
Locution, is the type and illustration of the Sub-Category, Cause, in the Group of Relation,
as conceived by the great German metaphysician. His Correlative Sub-Category, Dependence, is
the Action itself, resulting from the Activity of the Agent, and expressed by the Verb and
its dependencies.

The Cause and Dependence of Kant, as a Sub-Group of Relation, are therefore, when translated
into their typical expression in Language, simply The Nominative and The Verb; and belong to
the Domain of Movement, and hence to that of Time.

It is only, however, when the Verb is Active that the Nominative is Agent or Cause. In the
Passive Locution or Voice, a Conversion into Opposites occurs;--the Direct is exchanged for
the Inverse Order of the Action. The Nominative then names the Object which receives, suffers,
or endures the force of the Action, and the Agent is then thrown into the Category of an Accident,
and expressed in an Oblique Case; thus, Charles is struck by John.

The term Subject, applied to the Nominative Case, is made, by a happy équivoque, to cover both
these aspects; that in which the Nominative is Agent or Cause, and that in which it is not
so. It is only in the latter instance that it is really or literally a subject, that is to
say, subjected to, or made to suffer the force of the action of the Verb; but action is a reaction
from such invasion or infliction of suffering or impression upon the person (or thing); and
the term Subject, changing its meaning, accompanies the person nominated or named by the Nominative
Case over into this new positive relation to the action. It is interesting to observe that
precisely the same doubleness of meaning arises, in the same way, in respect to the word Passion,
from Latin patior, to suffer. When we speak of the passion of Christ, we retain the primitive
and etymological meaning of the word; but, ordinarily, passion means just the opposite; that
violent reaction of the feeling side of the mind from Impression (or passion in the first sense),
which is nearly allied to Rage.

Intermediate between the Active and the Passive Locutions is a compound Active and Reactive
state--the action put forth by the agent, and yet terminating upon himself--which is expressed
lingually by what is appropriately called in Greek the Middle Voice (Sanscrit, At mane pada),
and in our modern Grammars, as the French, The Reflective Verb.

This last, the Reflective or Reciprocal Locution, is the grammatical type and illustration
of Kant's third subdivision of the Group of Relation, that, namely, which he denominates RECIPROCAL
ACTION.

The correspondences between Language and the Universe at large are here too obvious to require
to be enlarged or insisted upon. The Active Voice in Grammar repeats the World of Direct Actions;
the Passive Voice, the World of Inverse Actions; and the Middle Voice the World of Reciprocal
Actions, in the Universe at large. The Nominative Case (in the first and leading of these Locutions)
is the Analogue of Cause, and the Verb, of Dependence, or the Chain of Effects resulting from
the Cause.

The I, the Me, the EGO, as Subject, in the domain of Philosophy, is first Subject (-ed) under
Impression from the world without, and afterward becomes Cause (in Expression); and the term
Subject has here, therefore, precisely the same ambiguity as in Grammar, and stands contrasted
in the same way with the word Object; the Accusative Case of the old Grammarians being now
called the Objective Case, and denoting that upon which the force of the (direct) action is
expended.

The Middle Voice becomes, by an elision, the Neuter Verb. I walk, means, I walk myself. Neuter
Verbs fall, then, into the Category of Reciprocal Action.

The Typical Neuter Verb, the Typical Verb, in fine, of all verbs, is the Substantive or Copula
Verb TO BE, the Verb of Existence or Being. I am, means, I am myself, or, I keep or hold myself
in being.

In strictness, the verb to be is the ONLY VERB. Every other Verb is capable of Solution into
this one, accompanied by a Participle; thus, I walk, becomes, I am WALKING, etc.

By this analysis, the Verb, as such, falls back among words of Relation, or mere Connectives.
It may then be classed with Prepositions and Conjunctions; its office of Connection being still
peculiar, however, namely, to intervene between the Subject and the Predicate. Participles,
into which all other verbs than this Copula, are so resolved, then fall back in like manner
into the Class of Adjectives. The Tempic and Motic Word-Kingdom is thus carried back to its
dependence upon the Spacic and Static Word-Kingdom, as basis; in the same manner as, in Nature,
Time and Motion have Space and Rest for their perpetual background.

Reduced to this degree of simplicity, there are but three Parts of Speech: 1. Substantives;
2. Attributes; and 3. Words of Relation; which correspond with 1. Things; 2. Properties of
Things; and 3. The Interrelationship of Things, of Properties, and of Things and their Properties,
in the Universe at large.

The Adverb has not been mentioned. Analysis reduces it in every instance to an Oblique Case
of the Substantive, or, what is the same thing, to a Substantive governed by a Preposition;
and hence, by a second transfer, as shown above, to the class of Adjectives of Relation: thus,
happily means in a happy manner; now means in the present time, etc.

In the Grammatical Motismus the Three Tenses,--for there are but three strictly, or in the
first great natural Division of Time,--namely, the Past, the Present, and the Future, correspond
with the Grand Three-fold Division of The Tempismus, the Universal Ongoing or Procession of
Events, the Grandis Ordo Naturæ; namely, the Past, the Present, and the Future, as the Three-fold
Aspect of Time and of the Universe of Res Gestæ, or Things Done, and Contained in Time, as
distinguished from the other equal Aspect of the total Universe, namely, the Static Expansion
of the Universe in Space.

Mode, which is subsequently developed in Music as a Distinct Grouping of Categories, finds
here, in the domain of Relation, a subordinate development, in connection with the Verb.

Kant's Subdivision of Mode, as a group of Categories is, 1. POSSIBILITY and IMPOSSIBILITY;
2. BEING and NOT-BEING; and 3. NECESSITY and ACCIDENCE.

It is obvious that POSSIBILITY is that Category which is expressed grammatically by the Potential
Mode (from potentia, POWER, POSSIBILITY); otherwise called the Conditional Mode. I should do
so and so if--The Negative Form of this Mode expresses IMPOSSIBILITY: I should or could not
do so and so unless, etc.

BEING and NOT-BEING, direct Assertion and Denial, find their grammatical representation in
the Indicative Mode: I do or I do not; and in an Un-fin-it-ed or In-defi-nite way, as a mere
naming of the idea, in The Infinitive Mode, to do, etc.

NECESSITY and ACCIDENCE are expressed in the Imperative Mode for the former and in the Subjunctive
Mode for the latter. Necessary and Imperative are synonymes. To command absolutely, is to require,
and The Required or The Requisite is again The Necessary.

Accidence is that which is under a condition, sub-joined, Sub-junctive; which may or may not
happen, hence introduced by an if, equal to gif, give, grant, provided it so happen.

ELEMENTALITY (Kant's QUALITY of Being) reappears in this domain of Relation in Connection with
the Verb: AFFIRMATION, in the Affirmative Propositions, as, I love; NEGATION, in Negative Propositions,
as, I do not Love; and Limitation, wavering as between two, in the Dubitative or Questioning
Forms of the Proposition, as, Do I love? Do I not love? The Celtic tongues have special modal
forms to express these modifications of the Verb.

NUMBER, the remaining one of Kant's Groups of the Categories, finds also its minor representative
in this domain in the Numbers, Singular, Dual, and Plural, incorporated into the Conjugation
of the Verb. This leads us to the consideration of Grammatical Agreement and Government; carries
us over into Syntax, Prosody, Logic, and Rhetoric; back to Lexicology, the domain of the Dictionary
or mere Vocabulary in Language; and thence upward to Music, and finally again to Song, the
culmination of Speech.

The subject grows upon us, and it is impossible to complete it in a single paper.

The Portions of Language which we have been considering belong to the two Departments: 1. ELEMENTISMUS
(Kant's QUALITY), and 2. RELATION (Grammar more properly). The treatment of these is not fully
exhausted, and must be recurred to hereafter.

The two remaining ones of Kant's Groups of the Categories of the Understanding (here extended
to be the Categories of all Being) are, 3. QUANTITY, and 4. MODE. The proper domain of these
two is Music. The mere mention of the musical terms Unison, Discord (duism, diversity), the
Spirit of One and the Spirit of Two; and of the Major and the Minor Mode, suggest QUANTITY
and MODALITY as the reigning principles in that domain. The appearance of Number and Mode in
the domain of Relation (Grammar), is, as already stated, a subordinate one, and has respect
to the principle of OVERLAPPING, already adverted to, by which all the domains of Nature are
intricated or con-creted with each other.

QUANTITY and MODE, in their own independent and separate development, will, therefore, be the
special subjects of a subsequent treatment.

APHORISMS.--NO. VI.

Mind is a thing that we partly have by nature, and partly have to create by mental discipline
and exercise.

In English:

    'What can our studies yield, where mind is weak;
    Or what a genius do, that's not with discipline prepared?'

Nor is it yet clear, on which, supposing a well-organized and healthy body, most will depend--upon
the native endowment, or upon the labor of developing and applying the inborn power.

Distinguishing, however, between genius and talent, we may safely admit that no discipline,
without 'the gift and faculty divine,' will produce the one; and hold that well-directed industry,
in almost any case of a naturally sound mind, will surely develop the other. The half-made
and often ill-tutored efforts of the usual processes of learning, are not to be allowed a decisive
voice against the supposition that vigorous mental life might be the common portion of educated
men.

AN ARMY: ITS ORGANIZATION AND MOVEMENTS.

The immense military operations of our civil war have familiarized, to a considerable extent,
not only those connected with the armies, but the people generally with the systems on which
military forces are organized and the methods of conducting war. Much has been learned in the
past three years, and much accomplished in the improvement of tactics, internal organization,
and the construction of all kinds of material. Civilians, who were well read in the history
of former wars, and even professional military officers, were comparatively ignorant of all
the numerous details necessarily incident to the formation and movement of armies. On account
of the deficiency of practical information on these matters, the difficulties which arose at
the commencement of the war, were, as it is well known, immense; but they were overcome with
a celerity and energy absolutely unparalleled in the history of the world, and to-day we are
able to assure ourselves with justifiable pride that in all essential particulars our armies
are fully and properly organized, equipped, and provided for. We propose to exhibit in a few
articles the methods by which these results have been accomplished--to present to readers generally
the system of organization and the principles of operation existing in our armies--giving them
such information as can be obtained only from actual thorough acquaintance with military life,
or extended perusal of works on military art, as now understood among the leading civilized
nations.

That such information would be desirable, we were led to believe from the surprise expressed
by an intelligent friend at the definition given him of the phrase 'line of battle.' He was
greatly astonished on learning that battles are fought, mostly, by lines of only two ranks
in depth. The history of the 'line of battle' is of great interest, and indeed contains an
exposition of the principles on which a great portion of modern warfare is founded. While the
chief principles of strategy, of the movement of armies, of attack and defence, and to some
extent of tactics, are the same now as in the earliest ages, the mode of arraying men for battle
has undergone an entire change, attributable to the improvement in the weapons of warfare.
We are not superior to the ancients so much in the science of war, as in the character of our
arms. They undoubtedly fought in the manner most appropriate to the means which they possessed.
The great change which has taken place in the method of battle, consists chiefly in this--that
formerly men were arrayed in masses, now in lines. The Grecian phalanx was composed of 32,000
men arranged as follows: 16,000 spearmen placed in sixteen ranks of a thousand men each, forming
the centre; on each wing, 4,000 light spearmen in eight ranks; 4,000 men armed with bows and
slings, who performed the part of skirmishers; 4,000 cavalry. The Roman legion contained 4,500
men, of which 1,200 were light infantry or skirmishers armed with bows and slings. The main
body consisted of 1,200 spearmen, who were formed into ten rectangular bodies of twelve men
front by ten deep; behind them were ten other rectangles of the second line; and behind these
a third line of 600 in rectangles of six men front by ten deep. To the legion was attached
300 cavalry.

In the middle ages, infantry was considered of little importance, the combat being principally
among the knights and cavaliers. The introduction of gunpowder caused a change in the method
of fighting, but it was effected gradually. For a long time only clumsy cannon were used, which,
however, made great havoc among the formations in mass still retained. Rude arquebuses were
then introduced, and improvements made from time to time; but even so late as the 17th century
the ancient arms were retained in a large proportion. They did not disappear entirely until
the invention of the bayonet in the 18th century. This contributed as much as the use of firearms
to change the formations of battle. In the 16th century the number of ranks had been reduced
from ten to six; at the end of the reign of Louis XIV. the number was four; Frederick the Great
reduced it to three. With this number the wars of the French Republic and Empire were conducted,
until at Leipsic, in 1813, Napoleon's army being greatly diminished, he directed the formation
in two ranks, saying that the enemy being accustomed to see it in three, and not aware of the
change, would be deceived in regard to its numbers. He stated also that the fire of the rear
rank was dangerous to those in front, and that there was no reason for the triple formation.
In this judgment military authorities have since concurred, and the two-rank formation is almost
universally adopted. Russia is the only civilized power which places men in masses on the battle
field. Formations in column are used when necessary to carry a particular local position, even
at a great expenditure of life. But the usual mode of combat is that adopted by Napoleon. Our
battles have been almost universally fought in this manner. The rebels have probably used the
formation in column more frequently than the Northern troops. The non-military reader can easily
perceive that formations in mass are more subject to loss from the fire of artillery and from
that of small arms even at considerable distances, and are less able to deliver their own fire.

Our old regular army consisted of ten regiments of infantry, two of cavalry, two of dragoons,
and one of mounted rifles, of ten companies each, and four artillery regiments of twelve companies
each. Two companies each of the latter served as light artillery--the companies alternating
in this service. There was also a battalion of engineers.

At the commencement of the war our force of light artillery was very inadequate, and rifled
ordnance had scarcely been introduced. Our present immense force of the former has been almost
entirely created since the commencement of the war; the splendid achievements in rifled artillery
have been entirely accomplished within the last three years. Although it had been applied some
years previously in Europe, it was not formally introduced into our service until needed to
assist in suppressing the gigantic rebellion. The Ordnance Department had, however, given attention
to the matter, and boards of officers were engaged in making experiments. A report had been
made that 'the era of smooth-bore field artillery has passed away, and the period of the adoption
of rifled cannon, for siege and garrison service, is not remote. The superiority of elongated
projectiles, whether solid or hollow, with the rifle rotation, as regards economy of ammunition,
extent of range, and uniformity and accuracy of effect, over the present system, is decided
and unquestionable.'[A] We shall see, in discussing artillery, how far these expectations have
been realized.

The regular army was increased in 1861 by the addition of nine regiments of infantry, one of
cavalry, and one of artillery. The Mounted Rifles were changed into the 3d Cavalry, and the
two dragoon regiments into the 1st and 2d Cavalry. The old 1st and 2d Cavalry became the 4th
and 5th. All cavalry regiments have now twelve companies, and the new infantry regiments are
formed on the latest French system of three battalions, of eight companies each, with a colonel,
lieutenant-colonel, and three majors. Each of the 24 companies has 82 privates.

[Footnote A: Scott's Military Dictionary.]

The old regular army comprised, when full, about 18,000 officers and men. As increased, the
total complement is over 43,600, including five major-generals, nine brigadier-generals, thirty-three
aides-de-camp, besides the field officers of the various regiments and the company officers.
In addition to these officers (but included in the aggregate above given) are the various staff
departments, as follows:

     Adjutant-Generals.--1 brigadier-general, 2 colonels, 4
     lieutenant-colonels, 13 majors.

     Judge-Advocates.--1 colonel.

     Inspector Generals.--14 colonels, 5 majors.

     Signal Corps.--1 colonel, 1 lieutenant-colonel, 2 majors.

     Quartermaster's Department.--1 brigadier-general, 3 colonels, 4
     lieutenant-colonels, 11 majors, 48 captains, 12 military
     storekeepers.

     Subsistence Department.--1 brigadier-general, 2 colonels, 2
     lieutenant-colonels, 8 majors, 16 captains.

     Medical Department.--1 brigadier-general, 2 colonels, 16
     lieutenant-colonels, 50 majors, 5 captains, 109 first lieutenants,
     6 storekeepers, 119 hospital chaplains, 70 medical cadets.

     Pay Department.--1 colonel, 2 lieutenant-colonels, 25 majors.

     Corps of Engineers.--1 brigadier-general, 4 colonels, 10
     lieutenant-colonels, 20 majors, 30 captains, 30 first lieutenants,
     10 second lieutenants. The battalion of engineers comprises a total
     of 805.

     Ordnance Department.--1 brigadier-general, 2 colonels, 3
     lieutenant-colonels, 6 majors, 20 captains, 20 first lieutenants,
     12 second lieutenants, 15 storekeepers, and a battalion of 905 men.

These figures all pertain to the regular army. A considerable number of the officers in the
regiments have been appointed from civil life; but in the staff departments the officers are
almost exclusively graduates from the Military Academy at West Point.

The raising of the immense volunteer force necessitated a great increase in the staff departments,
and large numbers of persons from civil life have been appointed into the volunteer staff in
the Adjutant-General's, Judge-Advocate's, Quartermaster's, Commissary, Medical, and Pay Departments.
The ordnance duties are performed by officers detailed from the line, and engineer duties by
regiments assigned for that purpose. A large number of additional aides-de-camp were also authorized,
forming that branch of duty into a department. Aides-de-camp are also detailed from the line.
The highest rank yet created for volunteer staff officers is that of colonel in the aides-de-camp.
The heads of staff departments at corps headquarters are lieutenant-colonels, including an
assistant adjutant-general, assistant inspector-general, a chief quartermaster, and chief commissary.
Many regular officers hold these volunteer staff appointments, gaining in this manner additional
rank during the war--still retaining their positions in the regular service; in the same manner
as many regular officers are field officers in volunteer regiments.

The aggregate militia force of the United States (including seceded portions), according to
the last returns, was 3,214,769. The reports of the last census increase this to about 5,600,000,
which exceeds to some extent the number actually fit to bear arms. The computed proportion
in Europe of the number of men who can be called into the field is about one-fifth or one-sixth
of the population. If the population of the entire United States be assumed to be 23,000,000,
the number of men liable, according to this computation, would be about 4,000,000, which is
sufficiently approximate. The European computation of the force to be kept as a standing army
is a hundredth part of the population--varied somewhat by circumstances. This would give the
United States a force of 230,000. It will be seen how greatly inferior our regular force has
been and still is to the computations adopted in Europe. But the United States will probably
never require such a large force to be permanently organized; for we have not, like the European
powers, frontiers to protect against nations with whom we may at any time be at war, nor oppressed
nationalities to retain in subjugation by force. Our frontiers on Canada and Mexico have good
natural defences--the first by the St. Lawrence river and lakes, and the second by the great
distance to be traversed by an invading army before it could reach any important commercial
position. Our vulnerability is in our extensive seacoast. The principal requirement for an
army is a large framework, which can be rapidly filled by volunteers in expectation of war.
With such a military constitution and a system of military education and drill in the different
States, large and effective armies could be rapidly organized.

Our staff corps and regular army are insignificant, compared with those of European nations,
in which the average strength of the standing armies is from 250,000 to 300,000 men on the
peace footing, and 400,000 to 600,000 on the war footing, with immense magazines of equipage
and material, numerous military schools, and extensive organizations in all the departments
incident to an army. Our own army has hitherto been modelled to a great extent on the English
system--the most aristocratic of all in Europe, and consequently the least adapted to a republic.
To this is attributable much of the jealousy hitherto felt in regard to the army and all pertaining
to it. We are now, however, conforming more to the French system, and from it will probably
be adopted any changes that may be introduced.

The French army, since Napoleon gave it the impress of his genius, has in many characteristics
been well adapted to the peculiarities of republican institutions. A soldier can rise from
the ranks to the highest command, by the exhibition of valor and ability, more easily, in fact,
than he can in our own army, with which political favoritism has much to do in promotions and
appointments. By a recent policy of our War Department, however, vacancies have been left in
the subordinate commissioned officers of the regular army, which are to be filled exclusively
from the ranks. Many deserving officers in the army have been private soldiers.

No system will be effective for providing an adequate military organization that does not include
thorough instruction for officers. The prevailing feeling in our country, as remarked above,
has rather been to underrate the army, and to look with some jealousy on the West Point Military
Academy and its graduates. The present war has effected a change in this respect. The country
owes too much to the educated regular officers for the organization and conduct of the volunteer
forces, to be insensible of the merits of the system which produced them. A capable civilian
can undoubtedly become just as good an officer of any rank as a graduate of West Point; but
it must be through a course of study similar to that there pursued. No natural ability can
supply the want of the scientific training in the military, more than in any other profession.
Military science is only the result of all the experience of the past, embodied in the most
comprehensive and practical form. Napoleon was a profound student of military history. In his
Memoirs he observes: 'Alexander made 8 campaigns, Hannibal 17 (of which 1 was in Spain, 15
in Italy, and 1 in Africa), Cæsar made 15 (of which 8 were against the Gauls, and 5 against
the legions of Pompey), Gustavus Adolphus 5, Turenne 18, the Prince Eugene of Savoy 18, and
Frederic 11 (in Bohemia, Silesia, and upon the Elbe.) The history of these 87 campaigns, made
with care, would be a complete treatise on the art of war. The principles one should follow,
in both offensive and defensive war, flow from them as a source.'

To one familiar with the gradual progress in the organization of our armies, it is interesting
to recur to the time when the first levies of volunteers were raised. Regiments were hurried
into Washington half accoutred and indifferently armed. Officers and men were for the most
part equally ignorant of the details, a knowledge of which enables a soldier to take care of
himself in all circumstances. Staff officers knew nothing of the various departments and the
methods of obtaining supplies. The Government had not been able to provide barrack accommodations
for the immense irruption of 'Northern barbarians,' and the men were stowed like sheep in any
unoccupied buildings that could be obtained. These were generally storehouses, without any
cooking arrangements, so that when provisions were procured, no one knew what to do with them.
Hundreds of men, who previously scarcely knew but that beef-steaks and potatoes grew already
cooked and seasoned, could be seen every day sitting disconsolately on the curbstones cooking
their pork on ramrods over little fires made with twigs gathered from the trees. Those who
happened to be the lucky possessors of a few spare dimes, straggled off to restaurants. Washington,
in those days, was only a great country-town, and not the immense city which the war has made
it. The vague and laughable attempts of officers to assume military dignity and enforce discipline,
with the careless insubordination of the men, furnished many amusing scenes. It was not easy
for officer and man, who had gone to the same school, worked in the same shop, sung in the
same choir, and belonged to the same base-ball club, to assume their new relations.

Privates would address their officer, 'I say, Bill, have you got any tobacco?' Officers would
reply, 'Do you not know, sir, the proper method of addressing me?' Private would exclaim, 'Well,
I guess now you're puttin' on airs, a'n't you?' Pompous colonels strutted about in a blaze
of new uniforms, and even line officers then considered themselves of some consequence; while
a brigadier-general was a sort of a demigod--a man to be revered as something infallible. Now-a-days
old veterans care very little for even the two stars of a major-general, unless they know that
the wearer has some other claims to respect than his shoulder straps.

As matters gradually became arranged, the troops were provided with tents, and encamped in
the vicinity. Never was guard duty more vigilantly performed than in those camps around Washington.
Every one of us came to the capital with the expectation of being immediately despatched to
Virginia, and ordered to pitch into a miscellaneous fight with the rebels. Rebel guerillas
and spies were supposed to be lurking in the surroundings of the capital, and 'taking notes'
in all the camps. Woe betide the unsuspicious stranger who might loiter curiously around the
encampments. With half a dozen bayonets at his breast he was hurried off in utter amazement
to the guard house. At night the sentinels saw 'in every bush' a lurking rebel. Shots were
pattering all night in every direction. Unfortunate straggling cows were frequently reduced
to beeves by the bullets of the wary guardians. The colonel's horse broke loose one night,
and, while browsing around, his long, flowing tail, the colonel's pride, was reduced to an
ignominious 'bob' by a bullet, which neatly severed it near the root. Many was the trigger
pulled at me, many the bullet sent whizzing at my head, as I returned to camp after an evening
in the city. Fortunately, the person fired at was usually safe--any one within the circle of
a hundred feet diameter was likely to receive the ball. One evening, about dusk, going into
camp, I took a running jump over a ditch, and this rapid motion so frightened an honest German
sentinel--probably a little muddled with lager--that he actually forgot to fire, and came at
me in a more natural way with his musket clubbed. I escaped a broken head at the expense of
a severely bruised arm. The rule for challenging, it used to be said, was to 'fire three times,
and then cry 'halt!' instead of the reverse, as prescribed in the regulations.

When the order--long anticipated--for actually invading Virginia arrived, then was there excitement.
Every man felt the premonition of battle, and nerved himself for conflict. As we marched down
to Long Bridge, at midnight, perfect silence prevailed. Breaths were suspended, footfalls were
as light as snowflakes, orders were given in hollow whispers. We placed our feet on the 'sacred
soil' with more emotion than the Normans felt when landing in England, or the Pilgrims at Plymouth.
This was war--the real, genuine thing. But our expectations were not realized. As the 'grand
army' advanced, the scattered rebel pickets withdrew. The only fatality of the campaign was
the death of the gallant but indiscreet Ellsworth. We had our first experience of lying out
doors in our blankets. How vainglorious we felt over it! Many a poor fellow complained jocosely
of the hardship and exposure, whom since I have seen perfectly content to obtain a few pine
boughs to keep him from being submerged in an abyss of mud. Many, alas! have gone to a couch
where their sleep will be no more broken by the reveille of drum and fife and bugle--in the
trenches of Yorktown, in the thickets of Williamsburg, in the morasses of the Chickahominy,
on the banks of the Antietam, at the foot of those fatal heights at Fredericksburg, in the
wilderness of Chancellorsville, on the glorious ridge of Gettysburg. Comrades of the bivouac
and the mess! ye are not forgotten in that sleep upon the fields where swept the infernal tide
of battle, obliterating so much glorious life, leaving so much desolation! Even amid the roar
of cannon, exulting in their might for destruction, amid the shrieking of the merciless shells,
amid the blaze of the deadly musketry, memories of you occur to us. We resolve that your lives
shall not have been sacrificed in vain. And in these long, dreary, monotonous days of winter,
as the sleet rattles on our frail canvas covering, and the wind roars in our rude log chimneys,
while the jests go around and the song arises, thoughts of the battle fields of the past cross
our minds--we recall the incidents of fierce conflicts--we say, there and there fell----, no
nobler fellows ever lived! A blunt and hasty epitaph, but the desultory vicissitudes of a soldier's
life permit no other--we expect no other for ourselves when our turn to follow you shall come.
So we break out into our favorite chorus:

    'Then we'll stand by our glasses steady,
      And we'll drink to our ladies' eyes.
    Three cheers for the dead already,
      And huzza for the next man that dies.

Though your graves are unmarked, save by the simple broad slab from which storms have already
effaced the pencilled legend, or perhaps only by the murderous fragment of iron, which lies
half imbedded on the spot where you fell and where you lie, yet you live in the memory of your
comrades, you live in the hearts of those who were desolated by your death, you live in that
eternal record of heaven where are written the names of those who have given their lives to
promote the truth and the freedom which God has guaranteed to humanity in the great charters
of Nature and Revelation. For we are fighting in a holy cause. No crusade to redeem Eastern
shrines from infidels, no struggle for the privilege of religious freedom, no insurrection
for civil independence, has been more holy than this strife against the great curse and its
abettors, who seek to make a land of freedom a land of bondage to substitute for a Union of
freemen, miserable oligarchies controlled by breeders of slaves. If we die in this cause, we
have lived a full life. An anomalous state of things had existed between the time of the attack
on Sumter and the 'invasion' of Virginia. Although the war had in reality commenced, communication
was not suspended between Washington and Alexandria. On the day following the march over the
Potomac, we found the plans of intrenchments marked out by wooden forms on the spots which
subsequently became Fort Corcoran, opposite Georgetown, Fort Runyon, opposite Washington, and
Fort Ellsworth, in front of Alexandria. How this had so speedily been done by the engineers
I did not learn until many months afterward, when one of the party who planned the works described
the modus operandi. They went over to Virginia in a very rustic dress, and professed to the
rebel pickets to be from 'down country,' come up to take a look at 'them durned Yankees.' So
they walked around unmolested, selected the sites for the intrenchments, formed the plans in
their minds, made some stealthy notes and sketches, and, returning to Washington, plotted the
works on paper, gave directions to the carpenters about the frames, which were constructed;
and, after the army crossed, these were put in their proper positions, tools were placed conveniently,
and, soon after the crossing was made, the men commenced to work.

In raising these intrenchments, drilling and organizing, the army passed about a month--varied
only by alarms two or three times a week at night that the rebels were coming, whereupon the
troops turned out and stood in line till daylight. It was shrewdly suspected that these alarms
were purposely propagated from headquarters to accustom the men to form themselves quickly
at night without panic. In after times, in front of Richmond, we had such duty to perform,
without any factitious reasons. It was a matter of necessary precaution to stand to our arms
nightly for two or three hours before daybreak.

Until just previous to the disastrous Bull Run campaign, no higher organization than that of
brigades was adopted; but a day or two before the march commenced, General McDowell organized
the brigades into divisions. These were reorganized by General McClellan as the two and three
years volunteers joined the army. The organization of corps was made in the spring of 1862,
just before the commencement of the Peninsula campaign, and is now the organization of the army.

The complete organization is now as follows:

  Regiments, generally of ten companies.
  Brigades, of four or more regiments.
  Divisions, generally of three brigades.
  Corps, generally of three divisions.

The various staffs have gradually been organized, until they now stand (in the Army of the
Potomac) as follows:

At the headquarters of the army:

  A Chief of Staff.
  An Assistant Adjutant-General.
  A Chief Quartermaster.
  A Chief Commissary.
  A Chief of Artillery.
  An Assistant Inspector-General.
  A Medical Director.
  A Judge Advocate-General.
  An Ordnance Officer.
  A Provost Marshal-General.
  A Chief Engineer.
  A Signal Officer.
  Aides-de-Camp.

The rank of these officers, as the staff is now composed, is as follows: The chief of staff,
a major-general; the assistant adjutant-general, chief of artillery, and provost marshal, brigadier-generals;
assistant inspector-general, a colonel; medical director, chief engineer, judge advocate-general,
majors; the signal officer, chief commissary, and ordnance officer, captains; the aides, of
various ranks, lieutenants, captains, and majors. Most of these officers do not derive their
rank from their position on the staff, but it has been given them in the volunteer organization,
or pertains to them in the line of the regular or volunteer army. All the department officers
(meaning all except aides) have a number of assistants, and the general officers have staffs
and aides of their own, to which they are entitled by law. The total number of officers on
duty at the headquarters may amount to fifty or more, and there is plenty of work for all of
them during a campaign. Besides the regular staff, constituted as above related, there are
the officers of an infantry regiment which furnishes guards and escorts, and officers of cavalry
squadrons detailed to furnish orderlies. The headquarters of the army is therefore a town of
considerable population.

At the headquarters of the different corps the staffs are as follows:

  An Assistant Adjutant-General--Lieutenant-colonel.
  A Chief Quartermaster--Lieutenant-colonel.
  A Chief Commissary--Lieutenant-colonel.
  An Assistant Inspector-General--Lieutenant-colonel.

[These officers derive their rank from their position, under a law of Congress.]

  A Medical Director--being detailed from
  the senior surgeons of the regular or
  Volunteer army, and ranking as a
  major.

  A Commissary of Musters.
  A Provost Marshal.
  A Signal Officer.

[These officers are detailed from the line, and have the ranks which there belongs to them.
The signal corps is, however, now being organized, with ranks prescribed by law.]

Aides-de-Camp--one with the rank of major, and two with the rank of captain. Besides these,
additional aides are sent to the corps from those created under an act of Congress of 1861--now
repealed--and are detailed from the line.

       *       *       *       *       *

The quartermaster, commissary, and medical director generally have assistant officers. There
is a squadron of cavalry and usually a company of infantry at each corps headquarters.

The staffs of divisions and brigades resemble those of the corps, except that the regular staff
officers usually rank only as captains, except in cases where a major-general commands; he
is entitled to an assistant adjutant-general with the rank of major. Officers detailed from
the line to act on any staff in any capacity, bring with them the rank they hold in the line.
They are not entitled, except the authorized aides and in some other particular cases, when
ordered by the War Department, to additional allowances; but if they are foot officers, and
are properly detailed for mounted duty, the quartermaster of the staff on which they serve
is obligated to furnish them a horse and equipments. Divisions usually have an ordnance officer,
whose duty it is to take charge of the ammunition of the division, keep the quantity ordered,
and supply the troops in time of battle. By law the chief of artillery at corps headquarters
is the chief ordnance officer for the corps, but this arrangement has been found impracticable.
In the Army of the Potomac the chief of artillery does not remain at corps headquarters, but
is assigned directly to the command of the artillery, where he also has a staff, including
an ordnance officer, who supplies ammunition and other articles pertaining to his department,
exclusively to the artillery.

The staff, it must be recollected, is to an army what the masons, carpenters, ironworkers,
and upholsterers are to a building. As the latter are the agents for executing the designs
of the architect, so the staff are the medium by which the commander of an army effects his
purposes. Without competent staff officers in all the various grades of organization constituting
an army, the most judicious plans of the ablest commander will entirely fail. If a campaign
is to be made, the commanding general, having formed his general strategical plan, needs the
advice of his chief of staff as to the condition of his troops, and his assistance in devising
the details. His adjutant-general's office must contain full records of the numbers of the
troops--effective and non-effective--armed and unarmed--sick and well--present and absent,
with all reports and communications relative to the state of the army. His quartermaster must
have been diligent to provide animals, wagons, clothing, tents, forage, and other supplies
in his department; his commissary and ordnance officer, the same in relation to subsistence
and munitions--all having made their arrangements to establish depots at the most accessible
points on the proposed route of march. His chief of artillery must have bestowed proper attention
to keeping the hundred batteries of the army in the most effective condition. His chief engineer
must have informed himself of all the routes and the general topography of the country to be
traversed; he must know at what points rivers can be best crossed, and where positions for
battle can be best obtained; his pontoon trains and intrenching implements must be complete
and ready for service; his maps prepared for distribution to subordinate commanders. His inspector
must have seen that the orders for discipline and equipment have been complied with. His medical
director must have procured a supply of hospital stores, and organized the ambulance and hospital
departments. His provost marshal must have made adequate arrangements to prevent straggling,
plundering, and other disorders. His aides must have informed themselves of the positions of
the various commands, and become acquainted with the principal officers, so as to take orders
through night and storm with unerring accuracy. They must be cool-headed, daring fellows, alert,
and well posted, good riders, and have good horses under them.

All this work cannot be accomplished in a day, a week, or a month. The full preparations required
to render a campaign successful must have been the result of long, patient, thoughtful consideration
and organization. It is no time to teach sailors seamanship in a hurricane. They must know
where to find the ropes and what to do with them, with the spray dashing in their eyes and
the black clouds scurrying across the sky. It is no time for staff officers to begin their
duties when a great army is to be moved. Then it is needed that every harness strap, every
gun-carriage wheel, every knapsack, every soldier's shoe should have been provided and should
be in serviceable order; that the men should have had their regular fare, and have been kept
in the healthiest condition; that clear and explicit information be ready on all details. Prepared
by the assiduous, intelligent labor of a vigilant and faithful staff, an army becomes a compact,
homogeneous mass--without individuality, but pervaded by one animating will--cohesive by discipline,
but pliant in all its parts--impetuous with enthusiasm, but controlled easily in the most minute
operations.

These remarks, relative to the requirements for an effective staff, pertain to all grades of
organization. The staff officers at the headquarters of the army organize general arrangements
and supervise the operations of subordinate officers of their department at the headquarters
of corps; these have more detailed duties, and, in their turn, supervise the staffs of the
divisions; the duties of these again are still more detailed, and they supervise the staffs
of brigades; these finally are charged with the specific details pertaining to their commands,
supervising the staffs of the regiments, who are in direct communication with the officers
of companies.

Prepared for service by the unremitting labors of the staff officers, it is seldom that the
army cannot move in complete order at six hours' notice. Think what preparation is required
for a family of half a dozen to get ready to spend a month in the country--how tailors and
milliners and dressmakers are put in requisition--how business arrangements must be made--how
a thousand little vexing details constantly suggest themselves which need attention. Think
of a thousand families--ten thousand--making these preparations! What a vast hurly burly! What
an ocean of confusion! How many delays and disappointments! During the fortnight or month which
has elapsed while these families have been getting ready, an army of fifty or a hundred thousand
men has marched a hundred miles, fought a battle, been reëquipped, reclothed, reorganized,
and, perhaps, the order of a nation's history has experienced an entire change.

Our next paper will describe in detail the operations of the staff departments.

SLEEPING.

    The purple light sleeps on the hills,
      The shadowed valleys sleep between,
    Down through the shadows slide the rills,
      The drooping hazels o'er them lean.

    The clouds lie sleeping in the sky--
      The crimson beds of sleeping airs;
    The broad sun shuts his lazy eye
      On all the long day's weary cares.

    The far, low meadows sleep in light,
      The river sleeps, a molten tide;
    I dream reclined, with half-shut sight--
      My dog sleeps, couching at my side.

    The branches droop above my head,
      The motes sleep in the slanting beam,
    Yon hawk sails through the sunset red--
      Adieu thought, sailing through a dream!

    And here upon this bank I lie,
      Beneath the drooping, airless leaves,
    And watch the long, low sunset die,
      On silent, dreamy summer eves.

    The slant light creeps the boughs among,
      And drops upon the sleeping sod--
    SHE lies below, in slumber long,
      ASLEEP till the great morn of GOD!

DR. FOX'S PRESCRIPTION.

    'None but bigots will in vain
    Adore a heaven they cannot gain.'--SHERIDAN.

There is a story, familiar to most people of extensive reading, and quite frequently alluded
to, of a fox that, after endeavoring in vain to possess himself of some luscious grapes which
grew beyond his reach, walked composedly away, solemnly assuring himself and Mr Æsop, who overheard
him, that as yet the grapes were unripe. The story, or any allusion to it, seldom fails to
excite a smile. I, too, laugh when I hear it; but not so much at Reynard's inconsistency as
at his wit. The faculty of discovering grave defects in that which we have failed to obtain
is one for which we cannot be too thankful. It is a source of infinite comfort in this comfortless
world--a principle which enables both parties in every contest to be victorious--an important
article in the great law of compensation. It is as old as the human race. The great fabulist
no more invented it than Lord Bacon invented inductive reasoning. Like that philosopher, he
simply enunciated a principle which had been unconsciously recognized and constantly used ever
since the machinery of the human mind was first set in motion. I have no doubt that when Adam
found himself outside of Eden he wondered how he could have been contented to remain so long
in that little garden, assorting pinks and training honeysuckles, when here lay a vast farm,
well watered and fertile, needing only to be cleared, fenced, and cultivated to yield a handsome
income.

It is well that pride should sometimes have a fall. But you and I, dear reader, have often
seen envious people gloating over that fall in any but a Christian spirit. At such times have
we not rejoiced at any circumstance which could break the force of the fall and disappoint
the gratification of such malicious hopes? And what has accomplished that object so often and
so effectually as Reynard's great principle?

Once or twice in my life I have seen a smile on a female face under circumstances which made
it impossible to doubt that the smile was gotten up for my especial benefit. On such occasions
my sense of gratitude (which is quite large) and my vanity (which is very small) have conspired
to exalt women in my estimation to perhaps an undue elevation. They have seemed to me to be
angels visiting poor, weak, degraded man from pure motives of love and sympathy. And I have
felt a sort of chagrin that we have only such a dirty, ill-constructed world to ask them into.
But let us suppose that a short time afterward I see on the same face a decided frown or a
look of chilling disdain (I do not say that I ever did), under circumstances which indicate
that this also is displayed with reference to, and out of a kind regard for, myself. Here,
it should seem, the premises are established which compel me to admit a very disagreeable conclusion.
This I cannot think of doing. How shall I escape? Why, deny one of the premises, of course.
But the frown--I saw it plainly, alas, too plainly! I cannot dispute the evidence of my senses.
For a moment I falter; and again that ghastly conclusion stares me in the face. But now I remember
that a shrewd debater sometimes gains a point by denying the premise which he is expected to
concede. Can it be done in this case? Certainly! Human judgment, you know, is fallible. Not
that mine can be at fault now; but it may have been so heretofore. All men have erred; but
no man errs. There is the point! I was in error when I said women were angels. They are, they
must be, mortal. There are unmistakable signs that they are but human--indeed, some of them
might almost be called inhuman. The world is plenty good enough for them--a little too good
for some I could name. The Mussulman is quite right in excluding them from heaven. What should
we want of them when we get there? Won't there be plenty of houris there, with all their beauty
and virtue, but without their extravagance and wilfulness? To say the least, they are the weaker
vessels, though they carry the most sail. Am I, then, to drop my lip and hang my head and put
my finger in my eye, because one of them, for some cause or no cause, chooses to turn up her
nose at me? The proposition is absurd.--Thus, thus only, I save my self-respect without sacrificing
my logic. Am I inconsistent? Nay, verily. For what is the highest consistency but correspondence
with truth? And have I not at length hit upon the exact truth? Before, I was deceived; then,
I was inconsistent. But now--now I am thoroughly, beautifully consistent. But all this is simply
Dr. Fox's method of treating half the ills which flesh is heir to, reduced to logical forms
and written out in plain English.

Had Lord Byron but availed himself of this panacea after his adventure in Jack Muster's vineyard,
it might, perhaps, have rendered his life happier, and imparted a 'healthy, moral tone' to
his writings.

Every science, in its true progress, works toward simplicity. And mankind will acknowledge
at some future time that the 'sour grapes' at which they were wont to sneer, contain a powerful
stimulant for drooping ambition--the only infallible remedy for damaged honor and wounded pride.
When the scales shall have fallen from our eyes in that happy day, politics will become a delightful
profession, the contentious spirit of man will cease from its bickerings, the tongue of woman
will settle down into a steady and respectable trot, the golden age of duelling will retreat
into the shadowy past until it shall seem contemporary with the half-fabulous chivalry of the
middle ages, distracted maidens will no longer die of broken hearts, nor disappointed lovers
of unbroken halters.

As the parties to a lawsuit have the privilege of challenging peremptorily a certain number
of jurymen, so every man should be allowed to enjoy a reasonable number of whims and prejudices
without being called upon to give reasons for them. Then let us hear no more derisive laughter
when it is hinted that an unfortunate brother has resorted to the sour-grape remedy. We all,
at times, would be glad to find relief in a similar way, but are deterred sometimes by ignorance
of the true principles of therapeutics, but oftener by a false pride of consistency. Let us
rather say that he has simply fallen back upon a final privilege, and exercised a God-given
faculty.

LITERARY NOTICES. 1864

Our attention was first drawn to this work by a notice of it in that sprightly paper, the Round
Table. The writer of the notice therein says: 'I am at a loss where to award its authorship,
since it comes anonymously, but from internal evidence it seems to be a translation from the
German, and to have been rendered likewise into French. It seems also to have been written
before the official publication of the documentary evidence given on Joan's trial, which was
committed to the press for the first time in 1847, and which within ten years thereafter was
the occasion of an address to the present Emperor of the French, accompanied by elaborate historical
notes, praying him to take the preliminary steps to secure the canonization of the Maid. It
is always to be regretted that a book is put forth, like the present, without any vouchers
for its authenticity, especially when the knowledge of its origin dimly presents itself to
the reader upon perusal.' We can imagine no possible reason for the suppression of the name
of the careful and conscientious author of the work under consideration. Such suppressions
and literary piracies expose the writers and translators of America to suspicion and censure.
Have we any right to defraud an author of his just fame, or to use his works to fill our own
pockets, without at least giving the name of the man to whose labors we stand indebted for
our whole tissue? We think our publishers should frown upon all such attempts, bearing as they
do upon the just claims of foreign authors. The work in question is a translation from the
German of Guido Görres, the son of the great Görres, author of 'The History of Mysticism.'
So far as we have examined it, it gives the original without abridgment until the thirtieth
chapter, when, in the most interesting part of the whole life, condensation and omissions begin.
The ten last chapters of the original are crowded into three. We have thirty-three chapters
in the translation, and forty in the original. Many of the most characteristic, exciting, and
intensely interesting passages of the wonderful trial are excluded.

This work was first translated into English by Martha Walker Cook, and was given to the public
without abridgment in 1859, in the pages of the Freeman's Journal, published in New York. The
title page ran thus: 'Joan of Arc, the Maid of Orleans. An Authentic Life from Contemporaneous
Chronicles. From the German of Guido Görres. By Mrs. Martha Walker Cook.' Mrs. Cook's translation
has never appeared in book form. The rendering of the work in question differs in many important
points from that given by Mrs. Cook. The life in the original is one of exceeding interest.
The standpoint of its author is a Catholic one, he being a firm believer in the divinity of
the mission of the maiden. Her career was full of marvels, every step marked by the wildest
romance united to the strangest truths. Chained and exposed to the fury and brutality of the
English soldiery, defenceless and alone, she yet knew how to preserve her virgin sanctity;
the hero of the battle field, the deliverer of her country from the rule of the foreigner,
she shed not human blood; deserted by her friends, she never ceased to pray for them; bewildered,
betrayed, tried and condemned by the clergy of her own church, her firm faith never wavered.
Her answers to the subtle metaphysical questions propounded to her by her judges on purpose
to entrap her during her painful trial, are models of simplicity, innocence, and faith, mingled
with keen intellect and intuitive perception of their bearing upon her fate. Maligned and persecuted
by the English, deserted by the French, forgotten by the king she saved and crowned, betrayed
and condemned by the ecclesiastics of the church she honored--she perished in the flames with
the name of the Saviour she worshipped upon her pure, young lips. Her fame brightens with the
increasing light of our own century, and her canonization is now loudly demanded from the Church.
She has been celebrated in the most opposite domains of human intelligence, by historians,
romancers, theologians, jurisconsults, philosophers, writers on tactics, politicians, genealogists,
heralds, preachers, orators, epic, tragic, and lyric poets, magnetizers, demonologists, students
of magic, rhapsodists, biographers, journalists, and critics, and yet we have never met with
a single writer who appeared to comprehend her aright, or who was able to do justice to the
marvellous simplicity, truth, modesty, and force of her character. A French author has drawn
up a list of four hundred works dedicated to her history, but as yet this uncultured girl of
nineteen has puzzled all her delineators!

     THE NATIONAL ALMANAC AND ANNUAL RECORD FOR THE YEAR 1864.
     Philadelphia: George W. Childs, 628 & 630 Chestnut street. For sale
     by J. Bradburn, 49 Walker street, New York.

The value of this compilation as a book of reference can scarcely be overestimated. Almost
every question likely to be asked about officers, offices, governments, finances, elections,
education, armies, navies, commerce, navigation, or public affairs, at home or abroad, is answered
herein. There are 600 pages of compactly and clearly printed matter, and it is marvellous how
much has been included in them through a judicious system of condensation. Stores of information
relating to the volunteers furnished by the several States to the United States army; names,
dates, figures in detail of all the regimental organizations from all the States and Territories;
valuable records of the events of the war, presented in a twofold form, first by tracing the
operations of each of the great armies, and then by noting the events in chronological order--are
given in these pages, where millions of figures and names occur, with wonderful accuracy. Particulars
of every vessel, with name, armament, tonnage, &c., and details of the internal revenue system,
are placed before us. We cannot offer even an outline of the contents of this volume, because
the details are so multifarious that we could compress their index into no reasonable space.
A copy of this book should be in the hands of every reader, thinker, and business man in the
country. It is indeed a 'little library,' a 'photograph of the world' for the last two years
of its rapid course.

We are a magnanimous people, and we doubt not this simple record of a woman's sufferings and
terror will be read with interest, although she is the wife of a Confederate officer. It gives
us, indeed, the only picture we have as yet seen of the interior of Vicksburg during its ever-memorable
siege; the only sketch of the hopes and fears of its inhabitants. Its dedication is as follows:
'To one who, though absent, is ever present, this little waif is tenderly and affectionately
dedicated.'

     NEIGHBOR JACKWOOD. By J. T. Trowbridge. Boston: J. E.
     Tilton & Company. For sale by D. Appleton & Co., New York.

A novel from Mr. Trowbridge, the author of 'Cudjo's Cave,' will always command attention. He
gives us no wayside episodes, rambling details, or useless explanations. He seizes his story
at the outset, and sustains its interest to the close. His action is rapid, and every step
is a direct one to the final dénouement. He holds his reins with a firm hand, and big incidents
never swerve from an air-line track. His books are characteristically American, and he uses
the events and characters of the hour with ability. Poor Charlotte, the heroine, is well drawn,
and her tale is one appealing to all human sympathies, yet, perhaps in consequence of old and
persistent prejudices, we cannot say we like this work as well as 'Cudjo's Cave.' Many of our
readers may like it better. Grandmother Rigglesty is inimitable, and should be studied by all
the peevish, selfish, and exacting old women in the land.

       *       *       *       *       *

In consequence of the space occupied by our Index, the remaining notices of new books are unavoidably
postponed until the issue of the ensuing number.--ED. CON.

EDITOR'S TABLE.

THE METROPOLITAN FAIR.

This noble and humane enterprise has nearly reached its conclusion, and the results, we believe,
are quite commensurate with the expectations of the Executive Committee. It is not possible
as yet to arrive at the net proceeds, but the entire receipts will exceed one million dollars.
The names and reputation of the chiefs of the Sanitary Commission are sufficient guarantee
that the funds thus raised will be applied to the purpose for which they were given, and many
a poor soldier will have reason to bless the zeal of the energetic men and women who have so
efficiently labored to soothe suffering and furnish to the sick and wounded the very best aid
their country can offer.

We have more than once been pained by hearing the words 'humbug,' 'great advertizing establishment,'
etc., applied to the New York Fair, as well as to fairs in general. Now, nothing could be more
unjust than the first term; and as to the latter, we have only to say that, if human nature
were perfect, fairs would be unnecessary, and a subscription all that any just enterprise would
require for success. Beneficence on a large scale, however, requires the money of the selfishly
munificent as well as of the purely generous, and fairs not only procure purchasers for such
articles as givers can spare with the least detriment to themselves, but also make known the
names and quality of wares of various dealers. The man who might have subscribed ten dollars,
is content to pay one hundred for an object contributed from the time and labor of some individual
devoid of other commodities. If the wares in question become more widely known, and benefit
hence accrue to the giver, the consequence is surely a legitimate one, and even a fortunate
condition of the facts, as increasing the size of the fund received. They who give simply with
the idea of doing good, will doubtless receive their appropriate reward; and they who give
with mixed motives know well that the alleviation purchased by their contribution will be as
welcome to the sick soldier as that procured by the more unselfish donation. Our admiration
for the individual may vary with our knowledge of his springs of action, but if love of self
can be made to minister to the wants of the suffering, all the better, especially as no man
can (without certain knowledge) dare to sit in judgment upon the motives of his fellow men.

Each department has done well, and none better than that devoted to painting, statuary, engraving,
and photography. Large sums have been realized upon the pictures presented by the artists--generous
gifts indeed from men (and women) not usually overburdened with this world's gear. M. Knoedler,
of the Art Committee, merits the especial gratitude of the community, not only for the generous
but unobtrusive zeal displayed by him, but also for large contributions in engravings and photographs.

The gift department of the picture gallery comprised works from all our best-known names, as
well as from some hitherto unknown. The artists' albums were also a special feature in this
domain. Judging merely as outsiders (having owned no certificate of subscription), we thought
the anti-raffling rule might either have been suspended in their favor, or should certainly
have been enforced upon the first day, before the burden of so many subscriptions had fallen
upon the shoulders of the energetic artists having them in charge.

The general exhibition, although by no means a complete representation of all that has been
accomplished by painting in America (several of our best artists having been represented only
by their gift pictures), was nevertheless very interesting. Opportunity was offered for close
and immediate comparison between some of the renowned works that have adorned our annals, namely,
Bierstadt's 'Rocky Mountains,' and Church's 'Andes of Ecuador' and 'Heart of the Andes,' also,
Gignoux's and Church's 'Niagaras.'

The 'arms and trophies' made a very splendid and inspiring array. The book store, the nautical
room, the machine shop, the New York fire, police, and New Jersey departments, and the grouping
and general arrangement of the Seventeenth-street building, were but a few of the tasteful
and admirable results of the labors of the executive and minor committees.

Last, but not least, come the Indians, who contributed to the Fair one of its most attractive
features. Good pictures may often be seen, fancy articles every day, but the advent of these
children of the forest has left a vivid memory of their appearance and of some of their customs,
their musical instruments, songs, and dances, with many who have never heretofore come in contact
with them, and whose grandchildren may perhaps cross the continent from New York to San Francisco
without meeting a single one of the original denizens of mountain, vale, prairie, or table
land. Great thanks are due to M. Bierstadt for the almost herculean labors he must have undergone
in presenting to us these living fossils. Keeping them in a good humor must have been one of
his most serious tasks, as they doubtless encountered many contrarieties calculated to chafe
hot blood and annoy men unaccustomed to the confinement of city life.

Again, thanks to him, and also to them; thanks, indeed, to all the patriotic men and women
who have done so much in New York, Brooklyn, Boston, Chicago, Cincinnati, and other smaller
places, and also to those who are making similar noble efforts in Baltimore, Philadelphia,
St. Louis, Pittsburg, etc., etc. War is a sad phase in the history of humanity, and yet it
has ever had the glory of developing some of the highest of human virtues.

       *       *       *       *       *

KNOUT, PLETE, AND GANTLET.

The peasants of Poland do not seem very amiably disposed toward the great Russian czar. Having
been already emancipated by their own leaders, they do not appear to be aware of his superhuman
benevolence in their behalf. They have issued a manifesto against him. They propose to raise
a peasant army of a million of men, from the ages of sixteen to sixty, to assault Warsaw and
other Polish cities held by the Russians. They treat with scorn the offered emancipation, and
determine to resist 'the odious, fierce, greedy, and astute Muscovite, and to organize en masse
under their own captains, while their own National Government will designate the day upon which
the general movement will take place.' Having accomplished their object--the deliverance of
Poland--the peasants will elect chiefs to arrange the repartition of taxes, and a national
diet will undertake the management of the affairs of the country. Prussia and Austria will
then be called in again to aid in the subjugation of Poland. This will throw the firebrand
of war and revolution over Western Europe, the oppressed peoples will rise in their might,
and Liberty be inscribed on the banner of the world. In the indignant refusal of the Polish
peasants to receive as a boon from the foreigner what they already possess as a right from
their own leaders; in the devoted patriotism they are now evincing, they rob Russia of the
vast advantage she hoped to gain in depriving Poland of what has made part of her marvellous
force, the moral sympathies of the civilized world. For can any one be weak enough to believe
that the ukase of emancipation originated in the magnanimity of Russia? The design was evidently
to divide the peasants from the nobles, to light the flames of civil war, to murder by the
hands of her own sons that unhappy country, which, deserted by all the nations of the earth,
has again and again risen from her bloody grave to startle her oppressors with the old hymns
of faith and triumph. But, if uncultured, because the iron heel of the tyrant has been on the
heart of the murdered mother, the Polish peasant is faithful and devoted. He knows the nature
of Russian rule. He has seen women knouted, childred murdered, boys imprisoned, and men exposed
to the tortures of Siberia. Have our readers any true conception of what it is to be knouted?
We will place before them a translation from Piotrowski of three modes of punishment used by
Russia.

'The Knout is a long narrow thong of leather, which is steeped and boiled in a chemical solution
until it becomes thickly coated with metallic filings and deposit. Prepared in this way, the
thong acquires considerable weight and hardness. Before it cools and hardens, however, they
take care to turn the edges, made thin for this purpose, up toward each other, thus forming
a groove extending through the whole length of the metal-coated thong, with the exception of
the extremity, which is left limber that it may be wound round the hand of the executioner,
while a strong iron hook is appended to the other extremity. The scaffold on which the victim
suffers is called in Russian 'Kobyla,' literally a mare. It is an inclined plane, on which
the sufferer is tied, his back is stripped naked, his arms embrace the higher end of the plank,
his hands are tied under it, his feet are fastened on the lower end, all movement being thus
rendered impossible. Hacking down upon the naked back of the victim, the knout falls with its
concave side upon the skin, which the metalized edge of the instrument cuts like a knife, the
blades of the groove burying themselves in the flesh; the instrument is not lifted up by the
operator, but is drawn horizontally toward himself, tearing away, by means of the hook, the
severed flesh in long strings. If the operator performs his part conscientiously, the sufferer
loses consciousness after the third blow, and frequently expires with the fifth. Peter the
Great fixed the maximum of the number to be given at one hundred and one--of course, this was
a sentence of death. It is a singularity of the Russian laws that the number of blows decreed
for the knout is always uneven. As soon as the wretched victim has received the prescribed
number, he is untied, forced to kneel, and submit to the punishment of the brand. This brand
consists of the three letters VOR (robber, criminal), cut in iron points upon a stamp, and
is struck by the executioner into the forehead and cheeks of the sufferer. While the blood
is still flowing, a black fluid, partly composed of gunpowder, is injected into the wounds.
When the wounds heal, the letters assume a dark blue tint, and are forever after indelible.
After the infliction of the brand, it was formerly the custom to tear out the nostrils, but
this horrible barbarity was definitely abolished toward the close of the reign of Alexander
I. I have, however, met more than one Siberian exile thus hideously disfigured, no doubt belonging
to the time anterior to the publication of the ukase. I have met an incalculable number of
men bearing upon cheeks and forehead the triple inscription VOR. I do not think the brand is
applied to woman; at least I have never seen one thus desecrated.

'The Plète, which is often and wrongfully confounded with the knout, is a far less formidable
instrument. It is composed of three strong leathern thongs, terminated at the one end by balls
of lead; the other is wrapped round the hand of the executioner. In accordance with the Russian
law, this instrument should weigh from five to six pounds. It strikes like a triple lash upon
the naked back of the sufferer. It does not plough or tear up the flesh like the knout, but
the skin of course breaks under the heavy blows inflicted upon the spinal column and the sides.
Phthisis is a common complaint with those who have been subjected to the punishment of the
plète, the strokes frequently detaching the viscera from their living walls. In order to give
more force to the blow, the executioner takes a leap and run, only striking as he reaches his
victim. If possible to gain him by a bribe, he may diminish the punishment without detection.
He may manage not to use his little finger on the instrument, which softens the force of the
blow, without attracting the attention of the superintending officer. If the number of lashes
is to be great, the operator is often bribed to give all his available force to the first blows,
directing them principally toward the sides, in order to put as short a term as possible to
the torture and life of the miserable sufferer.

'A third kind of punishment is that of the Skvoz-stroï, literally, through the ranks. This
is generally used for soldiers only, though many Polish patriots have been subjected to it
after condemnation for political offences. It is thus inflicted: Long rods are taken, freshly
cut and well soaked in water to render them perfectly flexible, and given to the men who are
to operate. A company of soldiers range themselves, facing each other, in a double file, placing
themselves at such a distance from one another that they may be able to strike with their whole
force without being in the way of each other. The sufferer is stripped to the waist, his hands
are tied before him to a gun, the bayonet of which rests on his breast, while the butt end
of it is carried by the soldier appointed to lead him through the ranks charged with the duty
of inflicting his punishment. He is led slowly forward through the files, receiving the lashes
on his back and shoulders. When he faints or falls on the ground, he is raised up and urged
to move on. Peter the Great fixed the maximum of blows at twelve thousand, but unless they
intend to make an example of some offender, more than two thousand are rarely administered.
If more are decreed, the patient is usually carried to the hospital and cured of his wounds
ere he is forced to undergo the rest of the sentence.

'A conspiracy broke out in Siberia, which was betrayed on the very eve of its commencement
at Omsk. The Abbé Siérocinski was concerned in it, and he and five of his accomplices, among
whom was found an officer of the empire between sixty and seventy years of age, were condemned
to seven thousand lashes, each without remission. The other conspirators, numbering nearly
a thousand in all, were sentenced to receive from one thousand to fifteen hundred lashes, and
to hard labor for life. The day of execution arrived. It occurred in 1837, early in the month
of March. It took place at Omsk. General Golofeïev, in consequence of being celebrated for
his cruelty, was sent from the capital to superintend the punishment and command this mournful
cortége. Two entire battalions were ranged in a great plain near the city, the one destined
for the six principal conspirators, the other for those whose punishment was not to be so severe.
It is not our intention to describe the detailed butchery of this day of horror: we will confine
ourselves to the Abbé Siérocinski and his five companions in misfortune. They were escorted
on the plain, their sentence was read aloud to them with great solemnity, and then the running
of the gauntlet commenced. The lashes were administered, according to the letter of the decree,
'without mercy,' and the cries of the wretched sufferers rose to the skies. None of them lived
to receive the full number of lashes: executed one after another, after having passed two or
three times through the dreadful file, they fell upon the earth, dyeing the pure snow red with
the blood of their agonies as they expired. In order that the Abbé Siérocinski might drink
to the dregs the bitter cup of his punishment, that he might suffer doubly through the torture
of his friends, he had been reserved to the last. His turn now arrived, they stripped his back
and tied his hands to the bayonet, and the physician advanced to give him, as he had given
the others, some drops to strengthen him for the torment, but he refused them, saying: 'I do
not want your drops--I will not taste them, I am ready--drink, then, the blood for which you
thirst.' The signal of his fearful march was given, and the strong voice of the old superior
of the monastery was heard entoning with high, clear chant: 'Miserere mei, Deus, secundum magnam
misericordiam tuam!'

'The chant of the priest was broken in upon by the harsh cry of General Golofeïev to the soldiers:
Pokreptche! Pokreptche! 'Harder! Harder!' Thus was heard for some time the chant of the Basilien
broken by the hissing of the lashes and the angry cry of the general. Siérocinski had only
passed once through the ranks of the battalion, that is to say, he had received but a thousand
lashes, when he rolled without consciousness over the snow, staining it with his dauntless
blood. In vain they tried to place him again on his feet--he was too weak to stand; and he
was then stretched upon a sled which had been prepared in advance. He was fastened upon this
species of support so as to present his back to the blows, and again the defile through the
ranks began. Cries and groans were still heard: though they were constantly growing weaker,
they ceased not until the commencement of the fourth course--the three thousand last blows
fell on the body of the hapless corpse.

'A common ditch received those who died on this dreadful day, Poles and Russians being thrown
in together. The holy sign of our faith was placed by the friends of the dead upon this crowded
grave, and even in 1846 the great wooden cross still stretched its black arms over the steppe
shrouded in its snow of dazzling whiteness.'