MORAL PHILOSOPHY:

ETHICS, DEONTOLOGY AND NATURAL LAW.

BY JOSEPH RICKABY, S.J.

Nihil Obstat: JOSEPHUS KEATING, S.J. Censor deputatus

Imprimi potest: JOANNES H. WRIGHT, S.J. Prap. Prov. Anglia

Nihil Obstat: C. SCHUT, D.D. Censor deputatus

Imprimatur: EDM. CAN. SURMONT Vie. Gen.

PREFACE (1905).

For fifteen years this Manual has enjoyed all the popularity that its author could desire.
With that popularity the author is the last person to wish to interfere. Therefore, not to
throw previous copies out of use, this edition makes no alteration either in the pagination
or the text already printed. At the same time the author might well be argued to have lapsed
into strange supineness and indifference to moral science, if in fifteen years he had learnt
nothing new, and found nothing in his work which he wished to improve. Whoever will be at the
expense of purchasing my Political and Moral Essays (Benziger, 1902, 6s.) will find in the
first essay on the Origin and Extent of Civil Authority an advantageous substitute for the
chapter on the State in this work. The essay is a dissertation written for the degree of B.
Sc. in the University of Oxford; and represents, I hope, tolerably well the best contemporary
teaching on the subject.

If the present work had to be rewritten, I should make a triple division of Moral Philosophy,
into Ethics, Deontology (the science of [Greek: to deon], i.e., of what ought to be done),
and Natural Law. For if "the principal business of Ethics is to determine what moral obligation
is" (p. 2), then the classical work on the subject, the Nicomachean Ethics of Aristotle, is
as the play of Hamlet with the character of Hamlet left out: for in that work there is no analysis
of moral obligation, no attempt to "fix the comprehension of the idea I ought" (ib.). The system
there exposed is a system of Eudaemonism, not of Deontology. It is not a treatise on Duty,
but on Happiness: it tells us what Happiness, or rational well-being, is, and what conduct
is conducive to rational well-being. It may be found convenient to follow Aristotle, and avow
that the business of Ethics is not Duty, not Obligation, not Law, not Sanction, but Happiness.
That fiery little word ought goes unexplained in Ethics, except in an hypothetical sense, that
a man ought to do this, and avoid that, if he means to be a happy man: cf. p. 115. Any man
who declares that he does not care about ethical or rational happiness, stands to Ethics as
that man stands to Music who "hath no ear for concord of sweet sounds."

All that Ethics or Music can do for such a Philistine is to "send him away to another city,
pouring ointment on his head, and crowning him with wool," as Plato would dismiss the tragedian
(Republic III. 398). The author of the Magna Moralia well says (I. i. 13): "No science or faculty
ever argues the goodness of the end which it proposes to itself: it belongs to some other faculty
to consider that. Neither the physician says that health is a good thing, nor the builder that
a house is a good thing: but the one announces that he produces health and how he produces
it, and the builder in like manner a house." The professor of Ethics indeed, from the very
nature of his subject-matter, says in pointing out happiness that it is the rational sovereign
good of man: but to any one unmoved by that demonstration Ethics can have no more to say. Ethics
will not threaten, nor talk of duty, law, or punishment.

Ethics, thus strictly considered on an Aristotelian basis, are antecedent to Natural Theology.
They belong rather to Natural Anthropology: they are a study of human nature. But as human
nature points to God, so Ethics are not wholly irrespective of God, considering Him as the
object of human happiness and worship,--the Supreme Being without whom all the aspirations
of humanity are at fault (pp. 13-26, 191-197). Ethics do not refer to the commandments of God,
for this simple reason, that they have nothing to say to commandments, or laws, or obligation,
or authority. They are simply a system of moral hygiene, which a man may adopt or not: only,
like any other physician, the professor of Ethics utters a friendly warning that misery must
ensue upon the neglect of what makes for health.

Deontology, not Ethics, expounds and vindicates the idea, I ought. It is the science of Duty.
It carries the mild suasions of Ethics into laws, and out of moral prudence it creates conscience.
And whereas Ethics do not deal with sin, except under the aspect of what is called "philosophical
sin" (p. 119, S 6), Deontology defines sin in its proper theological sense, as "an offence
against God, or any thought, word, or deed against the law of God." Deontology therefore presupposes
and is consequent upon Natural Theology. At the same time, while Ethics indicate a valuable
proof of the existence of God as the requisite Object of Happiness, Deontology affords a proof
of Him as the requisite Lawgiver. Without God, man's rational desire is frustrate, and man's
conscience a misrepresentation of fact. [Footnote 1]

[Footnote 1: This is Cardinal Newman's proof of the existence of God from Conscience: see pp.
124, 125, and Grammar of Assent, pp. 104-111, ed. 1895. With Newman's, "Conscience has both
a critical and a judicial office," compare Plato, Politicus, 260 B, [Greek: sumpasaes taes
gnostikaes to men epitaktikon meros, to de kritikon]. The "critical" office belongs to Ethics:
the "judicial," or "preceptive" office [Greek: to epitaktikon] to Deontology; and this latter
points to a Person who commands and judges, that is, to God.]

In this volume, pp. 1-108 make up the treatise on Ethics: pp. 109-176 that on Deontology.

Aristotle writes: "He that acts by intelligence and cultivates understanding, is likely to
be best disposed and dearest to God. For if, as is thought, there is any care of human things
on the part of the heavenly powers, we may reasonably expect them to delight in that which
is best and most akin to themselves, that is, in intelligence, and to make a return of good
to such as supremely love and honour intelligence, as cultivating the thing dearest to Heaven,
and so behaving rightly and well. Such, plainly, is the behaviour of the wise. The wise man
therefore is the dearest to God" (Nic. Eth. X. ix. 13). But Aristotle does not work out the
connexion between God and His law on the one hand and human conscience and duty on the other.
In that direction the Stoics, and after them the Roman Jurists, went further than Aristotle.
By reason of this deficiency, Aristotle, peerless as he is in Ethics, remains an imperfect
Moral Philosopher.

PREFACE TO THE FOURTH EDITION (1918)

1. I have altered the opening pages in accordance with the Preface to the edition of 1905.

2. I have added a paragraph on Syndicalism (pp. 291-2).

3. Also a new Table of Addenda et Corrigenda, and a new Index.

The quotations from St. Thomas may be read in English, nearly all of them, in the Author's
Aquinas Ethicus, 2 vols.; 12s. (Burns and Oates.)

CONTENTS.

PART I.--ETHICS.

CHAPTER I.--OF THE OBJECT-MATTER AND PARTITION OF MORAL PHILOSOPHY.

CHAPTER II.--OF HAPPINESS. Section I.--Of Ends. Section II.--Definition of Happiness. Section
III.--Happiness open to Man. Section IV.--Of the Object of Perfect Happiness. Section V.--Of
the use of the present life.

CHAPTER III.--OF HUMAN ACTS. Section I.--What makes a human act less voluntary. Section II.--Of
the determinants of Morality in any given action.

CHAPTER IV.--OF PASSIONS. Section I.--Of Passions in general. Section II.--Of Desire. Section
III.--Of Delight. Section IV.--Of Anger.

CHAPTER V.--OF HABITS AND VIRTUES. Section I.--Of Habit. Section II.--Of Virtues in general.
Section III.--Of the difference between Virtues, Intellectual and Moral. Section IV.--Of the
Mean in Moral Virtue. Section V.--Of Cardinal Virtues. Section VI.--Of Prudence. Section VII.--Of
Temperance. Section VIII.--Of Fortitude. Section IX.--Of Justice.

PART II.--DEONTOLOGY.

CHAPTER I. (VI.)--OF THE ORIGIN OF MORAL OBLIGATION. Section I.--Of the natural difference
between Good and Evil. Section II.--How Good becomes bounden Duty, and Evil is advanced to sin.

CHAPTER II. (VII.)--OF THE ETERNAL LAW.

CHAPTER III. (VIII.)--OF THE NATURAL LAW OF CONSCIENCE. Section I.--Of the Origin of Primary
Moral Judgments. Section II.--Of the invariability of Primary Moral Judgments. Section III.--Of
the immutability of the Natural Law. Section IV.--Of Probabilism.

CHAPTER IV. (IX.)--OF THE SANCTION OF THE NATURAL LAW. Section I.--Of a Twofold Sanction, Natural
and Divine. Section II.--Of the Finality of the aforesaid Sanction. Section III.--Of Punishment,
Retrospective and Retributive.

CHAPTER V. (X.)--OF UTILITARIANISM.

PART III.--NATURAL LAW.

CHAPTER I.--OF DUTIES TO GOD. Section I.--Of the Worship of God. Section II.--Of Superstitious
Practices. Section III.--Of the duty of knowing God.

CHAPTER II.--OF THE DUTY OF PRESERVING LIFE. Section I.--Of Killing, Direct and Indirect. Section
II.--Of Killing done Indirectly in Self-defence. Section III.--Of Suicide. Section IV.--Of
Duelling.

CHAPTER III.--OF SPEAKING THE TRUTH. Section I.--Of the definition of a Lie. Section II.--Of
the Evil of Lying. Section III.--Of the keeping of Secrets without Lying.

CHAPTER IV.--OF CHARITY.

CHAPTER V.--OF RIGHTS. Section I.--Of the definition and division of Rights. Section II.--Of
the so-called Rights of Animals. Section III.--Of the right to Honour and Reputation. Section
IV.--Of Contracts. Section V.--Of Usury.

CHAPTER VI.--OF MARRIAGE. Section I.--Of the Institution of Marriage. Section II.--Of the Unity
of Marriage. Section III.--Of the Indissolubility of Marriage.

CHAPTER VII.--OF PROPERTY. Section I.--Of Private Property. Section II.--Of Private Capital.
Section III.--Of Landed Property.

CHAPTER VIII.--OF THE STATE.
Section I.--Of the Monstrosities called Leviathan and Social Contract.
Section II.--Of the theory that Civil Power is an aggregate
    formed by subscription of the powers of individuals.
Section III.--Of the true state of Nature, which is the
    state of civil society, and consequently of the Divine origin of Power.
Section IV.--Of the variety of Polities.
Section V.--Of the Divine Right of Kings and the Inalienable
Sovereignty of the People.
Section VI.--Of the Elementary and Original Polity.
Section VII.--Of Resistance to Civil Power.
Section VIII.--Of the Right of the Sword.
Section IX.--Of War.
Section X.--Of the Scope and Aim of Civil Government.
Section XI.--Of Law and Liberty.
Section XII.--Of Liberty of Opinion.

ADDENDA ET CORRIGENDA

p. 31. Aristotle calls the end [Greek: to telos]; the means, [Greek: ta pros to telos] (St.
Thomas, ea quae sunt ad finem); the circumstances, [Greek: ta ein ois hae praxis].

Observe, both end and means are willed directly, but the circumstances indirectly.

The end is intended, [Greek: boulaeton]; the means are chosen, [Greek: proaireton]; the circumstances
are simply permitted, [Greek: anekton], rightly or wrongly. The intention of the end is called
by English philosophers the motive; while the choice of means they call the intention, an unfortunate
terminology.

p. 42, S. 3. "As the wax takes all shapes, and yet is wax still at the bottom; the [Greek:
spokeimenon] still is wax; so the soul transported in so many several passions of joy, fear,
hope, sorrow, anger, and the rest, has for its general groundwork of all this, Love." (Henry
More, quoted in Carey's Dante, Purgatorio, c. xviii.) Hence, says Carey, Love does not figure
in Collins's Ode on the Passions.

p. 43. For daring read recklessness.

p. 44. Plato is a thorough Stoic when he says (Phaedo 83) that every pleasure and pain comes
with a nail to pin down the soul to the body and make it corporeal. His Stoicism appears in
his denunciation of the drama (Republic, x. 604).

p. 47, S. 8. The first chapter of Mill's Autobiography, pp. 48-53, 133-149, supplies an instance.

p. 49, S. I, 1. 2, for physical read psychical.

P. 52. S. 5. This serving, in [Greek: douleuein], St. Ignatius calls "inordinate attachment,"
the modern form of idolatry. Cf. Romans vi. 16-22.

p. 79. For spoiled read spoilt.

p. 84, foot. For ways read way.

p. 85, 1. 6 from foot. Substitute: ([Greek: b]) to restrain the said appetite in its irascible
part from shrinking from danger.

p. 94, middle. For others read other.

p. 95. For Daring read Recklessness.

p. 103, middle. Substitute, "neither evening star nor morning star is so wonderful."

p. 106, S. 6. Aristotle speaks of "corrective," not of "commutative" justice. On the Aristotelian
division of justice see Political and Moral Essays (P. M. E.), pp. 285-6.

p. 111, S. 4. The static equivalent of the dynamic idea, of orderly development is that the
eternal harmonies and fitnesses of things, by observance or neglect whereof a man comes to
be in or out of harmony with himself, with his fellows, with God.

p. 133. To the Readings add Plato Laws, ix, 875, A, B, C, D.

p. 151. Rewrite the Note thus: The author has seen reason somewhat to modify this view, as
appears by the Appendix. See P.M.E. pp. 185-9: Fowler's Progressive Morality, or Fowler and
Wilson's Principles of Morals, pp. 227-248.

p. 181, 1. ii from top. Add, This is "the law of our nature, that function is primary, and
pleasure only attendant" (Stewart, Notes on Nicomathean Ethics, II. 418).

p. 218, lines 13-16 from top, cancel the sentence, To this query, etc., and substitute: The
reply is, that God is never willing that man should do an inordinate act; but suicide is an
inordinate act, as has been shown; capital punishment is not (c. viii. s. viii. n. 7, p. 349).

p. 237. For The Month for March, 1883, read P.M.E., pp. 215-233.

p. 251. To the Reading add P.M.E., pp. 267-283.

p. 297, l.6 from foot. After simply evil add: Hobbes allows that human reason lays down certain
good rules, "laws of nature" which however it cannot get kept. For Hobbes and Rousseau see
further P.M.E., pp. 81-90.

p. 319, middle. Cancel the words: but the sum total of civil power is a constant quantity,
the same for all States.

pp. 322-3. Cancel S. 7 for reasons alleged in P.M.E., pp. 50-72. Substitute: States are living
organizations and grow, and their powers vary with the stage of their development.

p. 323, S 8. For This seems at variance with, read This brings us to consider.

p. 338. To the Readings add P.M.E., pp. 102-113.

p. 347, middle. Cancel from one of these prerogatives to the end of the sentence. Substitute:
of every polity even in the most infantine condition.

       *       *       *       *       *

MORAL PHILOSOPHY.

1. Moral Philosophy is the science of human acts in their bearing on human happiness and human
duty.

2. Those acts alone are properly called human, which a man is master of to do or not to do.
A human act, then, is an act voluntary and free. A man is what his human acts make him.

3. A voluntary act is an act that proceeds from the will with a knowledge of the end to which
the act tends.

4. A free act is an act which so proceeds from the will that under the same antecedent conditions
it might have not proceeded.

An act may be more or less voluntary, and more or less free.

5. Moral Philosophy is divided into Ethics, Deontology, and Natural Law. Ethics consider human
acts in their bearing on human happiness; or, what is the same thing, in their agreement or
disagreement with man's rational nature, and their making for or against his last end. Deontology
is the study of moral obligation, or the fixing of what logicians call the comprehension of
the idea I ought. Ethics deal with [Greek: to prepon], "the becoming"; Deontology with [Greek:
to deon], "the obligatory". Deontology is the science of Duty, as such. Natural Law (antecedent
to Positive Law, whether divine or human, civil or ecclesiastical, national or international)
determines duties in detail,--the extension of the idea I ought,--and thus is the foundation
of Casuistry.

6. In the order of sciences, Ethics are antecedent to Natural Theology; Deontology, consequent
upon it.

Readings.--St. Thos., in Eth., I., lect. 1, init.; ib., 1a 2a, q. 1, art. 1, in corp.; ib.,
q. 58, art. 1, in corp.

CHAPTER II.

OF HAPPINESS.

SECTION I.--Of Ends.

1. Every human act is done for some end or purpose. The end is always regarded by the agent
in the light of something good. If evil be done, it is done as leading to good, or as bound
up with good, or as itself being good for the doer under the circumstances; no man ever does
evil for sheer evil's sake. Yet evil may be the object of the will, not by itself, nor primarily,
but in a secondary way, as bound up with the good that is willed in the first place.

2. Many things willed are neither good nor evil in themselves. There is no motive for doing
them except in so far as they lead to some good beyond themselves, or to deliverance from some
evil, which deliverance counts as a good. A thing is willed, then, either as being good in
itself and an end by itself, or as leading to some good end. Once a thing not good and desirable
by itself has been taken up by the will as leading to good, it may be taken up again and again
without reference to its tendency. But such a thing was not originally taken up except in view
of good to come of it. We may will one thing as leading to another, and that to a third, and
so on; thus one wills study for learning, learning for examination purposes, examination for
a commission in the army, and the commission for glory. That end in which the will rests, willing
it for itself without reference to anything beyond, is called the last end.

3. An end is either objective or subjective. The objective end is the thing wished for, as
it exists distinct from the person who wishes it. The subjective end is the possession of the
objective end. That possession is a fact of the wisher's own being. Thus money may be an objective
end: the corresponding subjective end is being wealthy.

4. Is there one subjective last end to all the human acts of a given individual? Is there one
supreme motive for all that this or that man deliberately does? At first sight it seems that
there is not. The same individual will act now for glory, now for lucre, now for love. But
all these different ends are reducible to one, that it may be well with him and his. And what
is true of one man here, is true of all. All the human acts of all men are done for the one
(subjective) last end just indicated. This end is called happiness.

5. Men place their happiness in most different things; some in eating and drinking, some in
the heaping up of money, some in gambling, some in political power, some in the gratification
of affection, some in reputation of one sort or another. But each one seeks his own speciality
because he thinks that he shall be happy, that it will be well with him, when he has attained
that. All men, then, do all things for happiness, though not all place their happiness in the
same thing.

6. Just as when one goes on a journey, he need not think of his destination at every step of
his way, and yet all his steps are directed towards his destination: so men do not think of
happiness in all they do, and yet all they do is referred to happiness. Tell a traveller that
this is the wrong way to his destination, he will avoid it; convince a man that this act will
not be well for him, will not further his happiness, and, while he keeps that conviction principally
before his eyes, he will not do the act. But as a man who began to travel on business, may
come to make travelling itself a business, and travel for the sake of going about; so in all
cases there is a tendency to elevate into an end that which was, to start with, only valued
as a means to an end. So the means of happiness, by being habitually pursued, come to be a
part of happiness. Habit is a second nature, and we indulge a habit as we gratify nature. This
tendency works itself to an evil extreme in cases where men are become the slaves of habit,
and do a thing because they are got into the way of doing it, though they allow that it is
a sad and sorry way, and leads them wide of true happiness. These instances show perversion
of the normal operation of the will.

Readings.--St. Thos., 1a 2a, q. 1, art. 4, in corp.; ib., q. 1, art. 6, 7; ib., q. 5, art.
8; Ar., Eth., I., vii., 4, 5.

SECTION II.--Definition of Happiness.

1. Though all men do all things, in the last resort, that it may be well with them and theirs,
that is, for happiness vaguely apprehended, yet when they come to specify what happiness is,
answers so various are given and acted upon, that we might be tempted to conclude that each
man is the measure of his own happiness, and that no standard of happiness for all can be defined.
But it is not so. Man is not the measure of his own happiness, any more than of his own health.
The diet that he takes to be healthy, may prove his poison; and where he looks for happiness,
he may find the extreme of wretchedness and woe. For man must live up to his nature, to his
bodily constitution, to be a healthy man; and to his whole nature, but especially to his mental
and moral constitution, if he is to be a happy man. And nature, though it admits of individual
peculiarities, is specifically the same for all. There will, then, be one definition of happiness
for all men, specifically as such.

2. Happiness is an act, not a state. That is to say, the happiness of man does not lie in his
having something done to him, nor in his being habitually able to do something, but in his
actually doing something. "To be up and doing," that is happiness,--[Greek: en to zaen kai
energein]. (Ar., Eth., IX., ix., 5.) This is proved from the consideration that happiness is
the crown and perfection of human nature; but the perfection of a thing lies in its ultimate
act, or "second act," that is, in its not merely being able to act, but acting. But action
is of two sorts. One proceeds from the agent to some outward matter, as cutting and burning.
This action cannot be happiness, for it does not perfect the agent, but rather the patient.
There is another sort of act immanent in the agent himself, as feeling, understanding, and
willing: these perfect the agent. Happiness will be found to be one of these immanent acts.
Furthermore, there is action full of movement and change, and there is an act done in stillness
and rest. The latter, as will presently appear, is happiness; and partly for this reason, and
partly to denote the exclusion of care and trouble, happiness is often spoken of as a rest.
It is also called a state, because one of the elements of happiness is permanence. How the
act of happiness can be permanent, will appear hereafter.

3. Happiness is an act in discharge of the function proper to man, as man. There is a function
proper to the eye, to the ear, to the various organs of the human body: there must be a function
proper to man as such. That can be none of the functions of the vegetative life, nor of the
mere animal life within him. Man is not happy by doing what a rose-bush can do, digest and
assimilate its food: nor by doing what a horse does, having sensations pleasurable and painful,
and muscular feelings. Man is happy by doing what man alone can do in this world, that is,
acting by reason and understanding. Now the human will acting by reason may do three things.
It may regulate the passions, notably desire and fear: the outcome will be the moral virtues
of temperance and fortitude. It may direct the understanding, and ultimately the members of
the body, in order to the production of some practical result in the external world, as a bridge.
Lastly, it may direct the understanding to speculate and think, contemplate and consider, for
mere contemplation's sake. Happiness must take one or other of these three lanes.

4. First, then, happiness is not the practice of the moral virtues of temperance and fortitude.
Temperance makes a man strong against the temptations to irrationality and swinishness that
come of the bodily appetites. But happiness lies, not in deliverance from what would degrade
man to the level of the brutes, but in something which shall raise man to the highest level
of human nature. Fortitude, again, is not exercised except in the hour of danger; but happiness
lies in an environment of security, not of danger. And in general, the moral virtues can be
exercised only upon occasions, as they come and go; but happiness is the light of the soul,
that must burn with steady flame and uninterrupted act, and not be dependent on chance occurrences.

5. Secondly, happiness is not the use of the practical understanding with a view to production.
Happiness is an end in itself, a terminus beyond which the act of the will can go no further;
but this use of the understanding is in view of an ulterior end, the thing to be produced.
That product is either useful or artistic; if useful, it ministers to some further end still;
if artistic, it ministers to contemplation. Happiness, indeed, is no exercise of the practical
understanding whatever. The noblest exercises of practical understanding are for military purposes
and for statesmanship. But war surely is not an end in itself to any right-minded man. Statecraft,
too, has an end before it, the happiness of the people. It is a labour in view of happiness.
We must follow down the third lane, and say:

6. Happiness is the act of the speculative understanding contemplating for contemplation's
sake. This act has all the marks of happiness. It is the highest act of man's highest power.
It is the most capable of continuance. It is fraught with pleasure, purest and highest in quality.
It is of all acts the most self-sufficient and independent of environment, provided the object
be to the mind's eye visible. It is welcome for its own sake, not as leading to any further
good. It is a life of ease and leisure: man is busy that he may come to ease.

7. Aristotle says of this life of continued active contemplation:

"Such a life will be too good for man; for not as he is man will he so live, but inasmuch as
there is a divine element in his composition. As much as this element excels the compound into
which it enters, so much does the act of the said element excel any act in any other line of
virtue. If, then, the understanding is divine in comparison with man, the life of the understanding
is divine in comparison with human life. We must not take the advice of those who tell us,
that being man, one should cherish the thoughts of a man, or being mortal, the thoughts of
a mortal, but so far as in us lies, we must play the immortal [Greek: athanatizein], and do
all in our power to live by the best element in our nature: for though that element be slight
in quantity, in power and in value it far outweighs all the rest of our being. A man may well
be reckoned to be that which is the ruling power and the better part in him. . . . What is
proper to each creature by nature, is best and sweetest for each: such, then, is for man the
life of the understanding, if the understanding preeminently is man." (Ar., Eth., X., vii., 8, 9.)

8. But if happiness is an act in discharge of the function proper to man as man (n. 3), how
can it be happiness to lead a life which Aristotle says is too good for man? The solution of
this paradox is partly contained in the concluding words of Aristotle above quoted, and will
still further appear presently (s. iv., n. I, p. 21), where we shall argue that human life
is a state of transition in preparation for a higher life of the soul, to be lived, according
to the natural order, when the compound of soul and body would no longer exist.

9. The act of contemplation, in which happiness consists, must rest upon a habit of contemplation,
which is intellectual virtue. An act, to be perfection and happiness, must be done easily,
sweetly, and constantly. But no act of the intellect can be so done, unless it rests upon a
corresponding habit. If the habit has not been acquired, the act will be done fitfully, at
random, and against the grain, like the music of an untrained singer, or the composition of
a schoolboy. Painful study is not happiness, nor is any studied act. Happiness is the play
of a mind that is, if not master of, yet at home with its subject. As the intellect is man's
best and noblest power, so is intellectual virtue, absolutely speaking, the best virtue of man.

10. The use of the speculative understanding is discernible in many things to which even the
common crowd turn for happiness, as news of that which is of little or no practical concern
to self, sight-seeing, theatre-going, novels, poetry, art, scenery, as well as speculative
science and high literature. A certain speculative interest is mixed up with all practical
work: the mind lingers on the speculation apart from the end in view.

11. The act of contemplation cannot be steadily carried on, as is necessary to happiness, except
in the midst of easy surroundings. Human nature is not self-sufficient for the work of contemplation.
There is need of health and vigour, and the means of maintaining it, food, warmth, interesting
objects around you, leisure, absence of distracting care or pain. None would call a man happy
upon the rack, except by way of maintaining a thesis. The happiness of a disembodied spirit
is of course independent of bodily conditions, but it would appear that there are conditions
of environment requisite for even a spirit's contemplation.

12. Happiness must endure to length of days. Happiness is the perfect good of man. But no good
is perfect that will not last. One swallow does not make a summer, nor does one fine day: neither
is man made blessed and happy by one day, nor by a brief time. The human mind lighting upon
good soon asks the question, Will this last? If the answer is negative, the good is not a complete
good and there is no complete happiness coming of it. If the answer is affirmative and false,
once more that is not a perfect happiness that rests on a delusion. The supreme good of a rational
being is not found in a fool's paradise. We want an answer affirmative and true: This happiness
shall last.

13. We now sum up and formulate the definition of happiness as follows: Happiness is a bringing
of the soul to act according to the habit of the best and most perfect virtue, that is, the
virtue of the speculative intellect, borne out by easy surroundings, and enduring to length
of days--[Greek: energeia psychaes kat aretaen taen aristaen kai teleiotataen en biph teleio.]
(Ar., Eth., I., vii., 15, 16.)

14. Man is made for society. His happiness must be in society, a social happiness, no lonely
contemplation. He must be happy in the consciousness of his own intellectual act, and happy
in the discernment of the good that is in those around him, whom he loves. Friends and dear
ones are no small part of those easy surroundings that are the condition of happiness.

15. Happiness--final, perfect happiness--is not in fighting and struggling, in so far as a
struggle supposes evil present and imminent; nor in benevolence, so far as that is founded
upon misery needing relief. We fight for the conquest and suppression of evil; we are benevolent
for the healing of misery. But it will be happiness, in the limit, as mathematicians speak,
to wish well to all in a society where it is well with all, and to struggle with truth for
its own sake, ever grasping, never mastering, as Jacob wrestled with God.

Readings.--Ar., Eth., I., vii. viii., 5 to end; I., x., 8 to end; I., v., 6; VII., xiii., 3;
IX., ix.; X., vii.; X., viii., 1-10; Ar., Pol., IV. (al. VII.), i., 3-10; IV., iii., 7, 8;
St. Thos., la 2ae, q. 3, art. 2; ib., q. 3, art. 5. in corp., ad 3; ib., q. 2, art. 6.

SECTION III.--Happiness open to man.

"And now as he looked and saw the whole Hellespont covered with the vessels of his fleet, and
all the shore and every plain about Abydos as full as possible of men, Xerxes congratulated
himself on his good fortune; but after a little while, he wept. Then Artabanus, the King's
uncle, when he heard that Xerxes was in tears, went to him, and said: 'How different, sire,
is what thou art now doing from what thou didst a little while ago! Then thou didst congratulate
thyself; and now, behold! thou weepest.' 'There came upon me,' replied he, 'a sudden pity,
when I thought of the shortness of man's life, and considered that of all this host, so numerous
as it is, not one will be alive when a hundred years are gone by.' 'And yet there are sadder
things in life than that,' returned the other. 'Short as our time is, there is no man, whether
it be among this multitude or elsewhere, who is so happy, as not to have felt the wish--I will
not say once, but full many a time--that he were dead rather than alive. Calamities fall upon
us, sicknesses vex and harass us, and make life, short though it be, to appear long. So death,
through the wretchedness of our life, is a most sweet refuge to our race; and God, who gives
us the tastes that we enjoy of pleasant times, is seen, in his very gift, to be envious.'"
(Herodotus, vii., 45, 46.)

1. It needs no argument to show that happiness, as defined in the last section, can never be
perfectly realized in this life. Aristotle took his definition to represent an ideal to be
approximated to, not attained. He calls his sages "happy as men" (Eth., I., x., 16), that is,
imperfectly, as all things human are imperfect. Has Aristotle, then, said the last word on
happiness? Is perfect happiness out of the reach of the person whom in this mortal life we
call man? However that may be, it is plain that man desires perfect happiness. Every man desires
that it may be perfectly well with him and his, although many have mistaken notions of what
their own well-being consists in, and few can define it philosophically. Still they all desire
it. The higher a man stands in intellect, the loftier and vaster his conception of happiness,
and the stronger his yearning after it. This argues that the desire of happiness is natural
to man: not in the sense in which eating and drinking are natural, as being requirements of
his animal nature, but in the same way that it is natural to him to think and converse, his
rational nature so requiring. It is a natural desire, as springing from that which is the specific
characteristic of human nature, distinguishing it from mere animal nature, namely reason. It
is a natural desire in the best and highest sense of the word.

2. Contentment is not happiness. A man is content with little, but it takes an immensity of
good to satisfy all his desire, and render him perfectly happy. When we say we are content,
we signify that we should naturally desire more, but acquiesce in our present portion, seeing
that more is not to be had. "Content," says Dr. Bain, "is not the natural frame of any mind,
but is the result of compromise."

3. But is not this desire of unmixed happiness unreasonable? Are we not taught to set bounds
to our desire? Is not moderation a virtue, and contentment wisdom? Yes, moderation is a virtue,
but it concerns only the use of means, not the apprehension of ends. The patient, not to say
the physician, desires medicines in moderation, so much as will do him good and no more; but,
so far as his end is health, he desires all possible health, perfect health. The last end,
then, is to be desired as a thing to possess without end or measure, fully and without defect.

4. We have then these facts to philosophise on: that all men desire perfect happiness: that
this desire is natural, springing from the rational soul which sets man above the brute: that
on earth man may attain to contentment, and to some happiness, but not to perfect happiness:
that consequently nature has planted in man a desire for which on earth she has provided no
adequate satisfaction.

5. If the course of events were fitful and wayward, so that effects started up without causes,
and like causes under like conditions produced unlike effects, and anything might come of anything,
there would be no such thing as that which we call nature. When we speak of nature, we imply
a regular and definite flow of tendencies, this thing springing from that and leading to that
other; nothing from nothing, and nothing leading nowhere; no random, aimless proceedings; but
definite results led up to by a regular succession of steps, and surely ensuing unless something
occurs on the way to thwart the process. How this is reconciled with Creation and Freewill,
it is not our province to enquire: suffice it to say that a natural agent is opposed to a free
one, and creation is the starting-point of nature. But to return. Everywhere we say, "this
is for that," wherever there appears an end and consummation to which the process leads, provided
it go on unimpeded. Now every event that happens is a part of some process or other. Every
act is part of a tendency. There are no loose facts in nature, no things that happen, or are,
otherwise than in consequence of something that has happened, or been, before, and in view
of something else that is to happen, or be, hereafter. The tendencies of nature often run counter
to one another, so that the result to which this or that was tending is frustrated. But a tendency
is a tendency, although defeated; this was for that, although that for which it was has got
perverted to something else. There is no tendency which of itself fails and comes to naught,
apart from interference. Such a universal and absolute break-down is unknown to nature.

6. All this appears most clearly in organic beings, plants and animals. Organisms, except the
very lowest, are compounds of a number of different parts, each fulfilling a special function
for the good of the whole. There is no idle constituent in an organic body, none without its
function. What are called rudimentary organs, even if they serve no purpose in the individual,
have their use in the species, or in some higher genus. In the animal there is no idle natural
craving, or appetite. True, in the individual, whether plant or animal, there are many potentialities
frustrate and made void. That is neither here nor there in philosophy. Philosophy deals not
with individuals but with species, not with Bucephalus or Alexander, but with horse, man. It
is nothing to philosophy that of a thousand seeds there germinate perhaps not ten. Enough that
one seed ever germinates, and that all normal specimens are apt to do the like, meeting with
proper environment. That alone shows that seed is not an idle product in this or that class
of living beings.

7. But, it will be said, not everything contained in an organism ministers to its good. There
is refuse material, only good to get rid of: there are morbid growths; there is that tendency
to decay, by which sooner or later the organism will perish. First, then, a word on diseases.
Diseases are the diseases of the individual; not of the race. The race, as such, and that is
what the philosopher studies, is healthy: all that can be imputed to the race is liability
to disease. That liability, and the tendency to decay and die, are found in living things,
because their essence is of finite perfection; there cannot be a plant or animal, that has
not these drawbacks in itself, as such. They represent, not the work of nature, but the failure
of nature, and the point beyond which nature can no further go.

8. On the preceding observations Aristotle formulated the great maxim--called by Dr. Thomas
Browne, Religio Medici, p. i., sect. 15, "the only indisputable axiom in philosophy,"--Nature
does nothing in vain. (Ar., Pol., I., viii., 12; De Anima, III., ix., 6; De part. animal.,
I. i., p. 641, ed. Bekker.)

9. The desire of happiness, ample and complete, beyond what this world can afford, is not planted
in man by defect of his nature, but by the perfection of his nature, and in view of his further
perfection. This desire has not the character of a drawback, a thing that cannot be helped,
a weakness and decay of nature, and loss of power, like that which sets in with advancing years.
A locomotive drawing a train warms the air about it: it is a pity that it should do so, for
that radiation of heat is a loss of power: but it cannot be helped, as locomotives are and
must be constructed. Not such is the desire of perfect happiness in the human breast. It is
not a disease, for it is no peculiarity of individuals, but a property of the race. It is not
a decay, for it grows with the growing mind, being feeblest in childhood, when desires are
simplest and most easily satisfied, and strongest where mental life is the most vigorous. It
is an attribute of great minds in proportion to their greatness. To be without it, would be
to live a minor in point of intellect, not much removed from imbecility. It is not a waste
of energy, rather it furnishes the motive-power to all human volition. It comes of the natural
working of the understanding that discerns good, and other good above that, and so still higher
and higher good without limit; and of the natural working of the will, following up and fastening
upon what the understanding discerns as good. The desire in question, then, is by no means
a necessary evil, or natural flaw, in the human constitution.

10. It follows that the desire of perfect happiness is in man by the normal growth of his nature,
and for the better. But it would be a vain desire, and objectless, if it were essentially incapable
of satisfaction: and man would be a made and abiding piece of imperfection, if there were no
good accessible to his intellectual nature sufficient to meet its proper exigence of perfect
happiness. But no such perfect happiness is attainable in this world. Therefore there must
be a world to come, in which he who was man, now a disembodied spirit, but still the same person,
shall under due conditions find a perfect good, the adequate object of his natural desire.
Else is the deepest craving of human nature in vain, and man himself is vanity of vanities.

11. It may be objected that there is no need to go beyond this world to explain how the desire
of perfect happiness is not in vain. It works like the desire of the philosopher's stone among
the old alchemists. The thing they were in search of was a chimera, but in looking for it they
found a real good, modern chemistry. In like manner, it is contended, though perfect happiness
is not to be had anywhere, yet the desire of it keeps men from sitting down on the path of
progress; and thus to that desire we owe all our modern civilization, and all our hope and
prospect of higher civilization to come. Without questioning the alleged fact about the alchemists,
we may reply that modern chemistry has dissipated the desire of the philosopher's stone, but
modern civilization has not dissipated the desire of perfect happiness: it has deepened it,
and perhaps rather obscured the prospect of its fulfilment. A desire that grows with progress
certainly cannot be satisfied by progressing. But if it is never to be satisfied, what is it?
A goad thrust into the side of man, that shall keep him coursing along from century to century,
like Io under the gadfly, only to find himself in the last century as far from the mark as
in the first. Apart from the hope of the world to come, is the Italy of to-day happier than
the Italy of Antoninus Pius? Here is a modern Italian's conclusion: "I have studied man, I
have examined nature, I have passed whole nights observing the starry heavens. And what is
the result of these long investigations? Simply this, that the life of man is nothing; that
man himself is nothing; that he will never penetrate the mystery which surrounds the universe.
With this comfortless conviction I descend into the grave, and console myself with the hope
of speedy annihilation. The lamp goes out; and nothing, nothing can rekindle it. So, Nature,
I return to thee, to be united with thee for ever. Never wilt thou have received into thy bosom
a more unhappy being." (La Nullita della Vita. By G. P., 1882.)

This is an extreme case, but much of modern progress tends this way. Civilization is not happiness,
nor is the desire for happiness other than vain, if it merely leads to increased civilization.

Readings.--St. Thomas, C. G., iii., 48; Newman's Historical Sketches--Conversion of Augustine;
Mill's Autobiography, pp. 133-149.

SECTION IV.--Of the Object of Perfect Happiness.

1. As happiness is an act of the speculative intellect contemplating (s. ii., n. 6, p. 9),
so the thing thus contemplated is the object of happiness. As happiness is the subjective last
end, so will this object, inasmuch as the contemplation of it yields perfect happiness, be
the objective last end of man. (s. i., nn. 3, 4, p. 4.) As perfect happiness is possible, and
intended by nature, so is this objective last end attainable, and should be attained. But attained
by man? Aye, there's the rub. It cannot be attained in this life, and after death man is no
more: a soul out of the body is not man. About the resurrection of the body philosophy knows
nothing. Nature can make out no title to resurrection. That is a gratuitous gift of God in
Christ. When it takes effect, stupebit natura. Philosophy deals only with the natural order,
with man as man, leaving the supernatural order, or the privileges and status of man as a child
of God, to the higher science of Scholastic Theology. Had God so willed it, there might have
been no supernatural at all. Philosophy shows the world as it would have been on that hypothesis.
In that case, then, man would have been, as Aristotle represents him, a being incapable of
perfect happiness; but he who is man could have become perfectly happy in a state other than
human, that is, as a disembodied spirit. Peter is man: the soul of Peter, after separation,
is man no longer; but Peter is not one person, and Peter's soul out of the body another person;
there is but one person there, with one personal history and liabilities. The soul of Peter
is Peter still: therefore the person Peter, or he who is Peter, attains to happiness, but not
the man Peter, as man, apart from the supernatural privilege of the resurrection. Hence Aristotle
well said, though he failed to see the significance of his own saying, that man should aim
at a life of happiness too good for man. (s. ii., nn. 7, 8, p. 9.)

2. The object of happiness,--the objective last end of man,--will be that which the soul contemplating
in the life to come will be perfectly happy by so doing. The soul will contemplate all intellectual
beauty that she finds about her, all heights of truth, all the expanse of goodness and mystery
of love. She will see herself: a vast and curious sight is one pure spirit: but that will not
be enough for her, her eye travels beyond. She must be in company, live with myriads of pure
spirits like herself,--see them, study them, and admire them, and converse with them in closest
intimacy. Together they must explore the secrets of all creation even to the most distant star:
they must read the laws of the universe, which science laboriously spells out here below: they
must range from science to art, and from facts to possibilities, till even their pure intellect
is baffled by the vast intricacy of things that might be and are not: but yet they are not
satisfied. A point of convergency is wanted for all these vistas of being, whence they may
go forth, and whither they may return and meet: otherwise the soul is distracted and lost in
a maze of incoherent wandering, crying out, Whence all this? and what is it for? and above
all, whose is it? These are the questions that the human mind asks in her present condition:
much more will she ask them then, when wonders are multiplied before her gaze: for it is the
same soul there and here. Here men are tormented in mind, if they find no answer to these questions.
Scientific men cannot leave theology alone. They will not be happy there without an answer.
Their contemplation will still desiderate something beyond all finite being, actual or possible.
Is that God? It is nothing else. But God dwells in light inaccessible, where no creature, as
such, can come near Him nor see Him. The beauties of creation, as so many streams of tendency,
meet at the foot of His Throne, and there are lost. Their course is towards Him, and is, so
far as it goes, an indication of Him: but He is infinitely, unspeakably above them. No intelligence
created, or creatable, can arrive by its own natural perception to see Him as He is: for mind
can only discern what is proportionate to itself: and God is out of proportion with all the
being of all possible creatures. It is only by analogy that the word being, or any other word
whatever can be applied to Him. As Plato says, "the First Good is not Being, but over and beyond
Being in dignity and power." (Rep. 509, B.)

3. To see God face to face, which is called the beatific vision, is not the natural destiny
of man, nor of any possible creature. Such happiness is not the happiness of man, nor of angel,
but of God Himself, and of any creature whom He may deign by an act of gratuitous condescension
to invite to sit as guest at His own royal table. That God has so invited men and angels, revelation
informs us. Scholastic theology enlarges upon that revelation, but it is beyond philosophy.
Like the resurrection of the body, and much more even than that, the Beatific Vision must be
relegated to the realm of the Supernatural.

4. But even in the natural order the object of perfect happiness is God. The natural and supernatural
have the same object, but differ in the mode of attainment. By supernatural grace, bearing
perfect fruit, man sees God with the eyes of his soul, as we see the faces of our friends on
earth. In perfect happiness of the natural order, creatures alone are directly apprehended,
or seen, and from the creature is gathered the excellence of the unseen God. The process is
an ascent, as described by Plato, from the individual to the universal, and from bodily to
moral and intellectual beauty, till we reach a Beauty eternal, immutable, absolute, substantial,
and self-existent, on which all other beauties depend for their being, while it is independent
of them. (Plato, Symposium, 210, 211.) Unless the ascent be prosecuted thus far, the contemplation
is inadequate, the happiness incomplete. The mind needs to travel to the beginning and end
of things, to the Alpha and Omega of all. The mind needs to reach some perfect good: some object,
which though it is beyond the comprehension, is nevertheless understood to be the very good
of goods, unalloyed with any admixture of defect or imperfection. The mind needs an infinite
object to rest upon, though it cannot grasp that object positively in its infinity. If this
is the case even with the human mind, still wearing "this muddy vesture of decay," how much
more ardent the longing, as how much keener the gaze, of the pure spirit after Him who is the
centre and rest of all intellectual nature?

5. Creatures to contemplate and see God in, are conditions and secondary objects of natural
happiness. They do not afford happiness finally of themselves, but as manifesting God, even
as a mirror would be of little interest except for its power of reflection.

6. In saying that God is the object of happiness, we must remember that He is no cold, impersonal
Beauty, but a living and loving God, not indeed in the order of nature our Father and Friend,
but still our kind Master and very good Lord, who speaks to His servants from behind the clouds
that hide His face, and assures them of His abiding favour and approving love. More than that,
nature cannot look for: such aspiration were unnatural, unreasonable, mere madness: it is enough
for the creature, as a creature, in its highest estate to stand before God, hearing His voice,
but seeing not His countenance, whom, without His free grace, none can look upon and live.

Reading.--St. Thos., 1a 2a, q. 2, art. 8.

SECTION V.--Of the use of the present life.

1. Since perfect happiness is not to be had in this mortal life, and is to be had hereafter;
since moreover man has free will and the control of his own acts; it is evidently most important
for man in this life so to control and rule himself here as to dispose himself for happiness
there. Happiness rests upon a habit of contemplation (s. ii., n. 9, p. 10), rising to God.
(s. iv., n. 4, p. 24.) But a habit, as will be seen, is not formed except by frequent acts,
and may be marred and broken by contrary acts. It is, then, important for man in this life
so to act as to acquire a habit of lifting his mind to God. There are two things here, to lift
the mind, and to lift it to God. The mind is not lifted, if the man lives not an intellectual
life, but the life of a swine wallowing in sensual indulgences; or a frivolous life, taking
the outside of things as they strike the senses, and flitting from image to image thoughtlessly;
or a quarrelsome life, where reason is swallowed up in anger and hatred. Again, however sublime
the speculation and however active the intellect, if God is not constantly referred to, the
mind is lifted indeed, but not to God. It is wisdom, then, in man during this life to look
to God everywhere, and ever to seek His face; to avoid idleness, anger, intemperance, and pride
of intellect. For the mind will not soar to God when the heart is far from Him.

1. See c. i., nn. 2, 3, 4.

2. An act is more or less voluntary, as it is done with more or less knowledge, and proceeds
more or less fully and purely from the will properly so called. Whatever diminishes knowledge,
or partially supplants the will, takes off from the voluntariness of the act. An act is rendered
less voluntary by ignorance, by passionate desire, and by fear.

3. If a man has done something in ignorance either of the law or of the facts of the case,
and would be sorry for it, were he to find out what he has done, that act is involuntary, so
far as it is traceable to ignorance alone. Even if he would not be sorry, still the act must
be pronounced not voluntary, under the same reservation. Ignorance, sheer ignorance, takes
whatever is done under it out of the region of volition. Nothing is willed but what is known.
An ignorant man is as excusable as a drunken one, as such,--no more and no less. The difference
is, that drunkenness generally is voluntary; ignorance often is not. But ignorance may be voluntary,
quite as voluntary as drunkenness. It is a capital folly of our age to deny the possibility
of voluntary intellectual error. Error is often voluntary, and (where the matter is one that
the person officially or otherwise is required to know) immoral too. A strange thing it is
to say that "it is as unmeaning to speak of the immorality of an intellectual mistake as it
would be to talk of the colour of a sound." (Lecky, European Morals, ii., 202.)

4. There is an ignorance that is sought on purpose, called affected ignorance (in the Shakspearian
sense of the word affect), as when a man will not read begging-letters, that he may not give
anything away. Such ignorance does not hinder voluntariness. It indicates a strong will of
doing or omitting, come what may. There is yet another ignorance called crass, which is when
a man, without absolutely declining knowledge, yet takes no pains to acquire it in a matter
where he is aware that truth is important to him. Whatever election is made in consequence
of such ignorance, is less voluntary, indeed, than if it were made in the full light, still
it is to some extent voluntary. It is voluntary in its cause, that is, in the voluntary ignorance
that led to it. Suppose a man sets up as a surgeon, having made a very imperfect study of his
art. He is aware, that for want of knowledge and skill, he shall endanger many lives: still
he neglects opportunities of making himself competent, and goes audaciously to work. If any
harm comes of his bungling, he can plead intellectual error, an error of judgment for the time
being; he did his best as well as he knew it. Doubtless he did, and in that he is unlike the
malicious maker of mischief: still he has chosen lightly and recklessly to hazard a great evil.
To that extent his will is bound to the evil: he has chosen it, as it were, at one remove.

5. Another instance. A man is a long way on to seeing, though he does not quite see, the claims
of the Church of Rome on his allegiance and submission. He suspects that a little more prayer
and search, and he shall be a Roman Catholic. To escape this, he resolves to go travelling
and give up prayer. This is affected ignorance. Another has no such perception of the claims
of Catholicism. He has no religion that satisfies him. He is aware speculatively of the importance
of the religious question; but his heart is not in religion at all. With Demas, he loves the
things of this world. Very attractive and interesting does he find this life; and for the life
to come he is content to chance it. This is crass ignorance of religious truth. Such a man
is not a formal heretic, for he is not altogether wilful and contumacious in his error. Still
neither is it wholly involuntary, nor he wholly guiltless.

6. Passionate desire is not an affection of the will, but of the sensitive appetite. The will
may cooperate, but the passion is not in the will. The will may neglect to check the passion,
when it might: it may abet and inflame it: in these ways an act done in passion is a voluntary
act. Still it becomes voluntary only by the influx of the will, positively permitting or stimulating:
it is not voluntary precisely as it proceeds from passion: for voluntary is that which is of
the will. It belongs to passion to bring on a momentary darkness in the understanding: where
such darkness is, there is so much the less of a human act. But passion in an adult of sane
mind is hardly strong enough, of itself and wholly without the will, to execute any considerable
outward action, involving the voluntary muscles. Things are often said and done, and put down
to passion: but that is not the whole account of the matter. The will has been for a long time
either feeding the passions, or letting them range unchecked: that is the reason of their present
outburst, which is voluntary at least in its cause. Once this evil preponderance has been brought
about, it is to be examined whether the will, in calm moods, is making any efforts to redress
the evil. Such efforts, if made, go towards making the effects of passion, when they come,
involuntary, and gradually preventing them altogether.

7. What a man does from fear, he is said to do under compulsion, especially if the fear be
applied to him by some other person in order to gain a purpose. Such compulsory action is distinguished
in ordinary parlance from voluntary action. And it is certainly less voluntary, inasmuch as
the will is hedged in to make its choice between two evils, and chooses one or other only as
being the less evil of the two, not for any liking to the thing in itself. Still, all things
considered, the thing is chosen, and the action is so far voluntary. We may call it voluntary
in the concrete, and involuntary in the abstract. The thing is willed as matters stand, but
in itself and apart from existing need it is not liked at all. But as acts must be judged as
they stand, by what the man wills now, not by what he would will, an act done under fear is
on the whole voluntary. At the same time, fear sometimes excuses from the observance of a law,
or of a contract, which from the way in which it was made was never meant to bind in so hard
a case. Not all contracts, however, are of this accommodating nature; and still less, all laws.
But even where the law binds, the penalty of the law is sometimes not incurred, when the law
was broken through fear.

Readings.--Ar., Eth., III, i.; St. Thos., 1a 2a, q. 6, art. 3; ib., q. 6, art. 6, 8; ib., q.
77, art. 6.

SECTION II.--Of the determinants of morality in any given action.

1. The morality of any given action is determined by three elements, the end in view, the means
taken, and the circumstances that accompany the taking of the said means. Whoever knows this
principle, does not thereby know the right and wrong of every action, but he knows how to go
about the enquiry. It is a rule of diagnosis.

2. In order to know whether what a man does befits him as a man to do, the first thing to examine
is that which he mainly desires and wills in his action. Now the end is more willed and desired
than the means. He who steals to commit adultery, says Aristotle, is more of an adulterer than
a thief. The end in view is what lies nearest to a man's heart as he acts. On that his mind
is chiefly bent; on that his main purpose is fixed. Though the end is last in the order of
execution, it is first and foremost in the order of intention. Therefore the end in view enters
into morality more deeply than any other element of the action. It is not, however, the most
obvious determinant, because it is the last point to be gained; and because, while the means
are taken openly, the end is often a secret locked up in the heart of the doer, the same means
leading to many ends, as the road to a city leads to many homes and resting-places. Conversely,
one end may be prosecuted by many means, as there are many roads converging upon one goal.

3. If morality were determined by the end in view, and by that alone, the doctrine would hold
that the end justifies the means. That doctrine is false, because the moral character of a
human act depends on the thing willed, or object of volition, according as it is or is not
a fit object. Now the object of volition is not only the end in view, but likewise the means
chosen. Besides the end, the means are likewise willed. Indeed, the means are willed more immediately
even than the end, as they have to be taken first.

4. A good action, like any other good thing, must possess a certain requisite fulness of being,
proper to itself. As it is not enough for the physical excellence of a man to have the bare
essentials, a body with a soul animating it, but there is needed a certain grace of form, colour,
agility, and many accidental qualities besides; so for a good act it is not enough that proper
means be taken to a proper end, but they must be taken by a proper person, at a proper place
and time, in a proper manner, and with manifold other circumstances of propriety.

5. The end in view may be either single, as when you forgive an injury solely for the love
of Christ: or multiple co-ordinate, as when you forgive both for the love of Christ and for
the mediation of a friend, and are disposed to forgive on either ground separately; or multiple
subordinate, as when you would not have forgiven on the latter ground alone, but forgive the
more easily for its addition, having been ready, however, to forgive on the former alone; or
cumulative, as when you forgive on a number of grounds collectively, on no one of which would
you have forgiven apart from the rest.

6. Where there is no outward action, but only an internal act, and the object of that act is
some good that is willed for its own sake, there can be no question of means taken, as the
end in view is immediately attained.

7. The means taken and the circumstances of those means enter into the morality of the act,
formally as they are seen by the intellect, materially as they are in themselves. (See what
is said of ignorance, c. iii., s. i., nn. 3-5, p. 27.) This explains the difference between
formal and material sin. A material sin would be formal also, did the agent know what he was
doing. No sin is culpable that is not formal. But, as has been said, there may be a culpable
perversion of the intellect, so that the man is the author of his own obliquity or defect of
vision. When Saul persecuted the Christians, he probably sinned materially, not formally. When
Caiphas spoke the truth without knowing it, he said well materially, but ill formally.

8. In looking at the means taken and the circumstances that accompany those means, it is important
to have a ready rule for pronouncing what particular belongs to the means and what to the circumstances.
Thus Clytemnestra deals her husband Agamemnon a deadly stroke with an axe, partly for revenge,
partly that she may take to herself another consort; is the deadliness of the blow part of
the means taken or only an accompanying circumstance? It is part of the means taken. The means
taken include every particular that is willed and chosen as making for the end in view. The
fatal character of the blow does make to that end; if Agamemnon does not die, the revenge will
not be complete, and life with Aegisthus will be impossible. On the other hand, the fact that
Clytemnestra is the wife of the man whom she murders, is not a point that her will rests upon
as furthering her purpose at all; it is an accompanying circumstance. This method of distinguishing
means from circumstance is of great value in casuistry.

9. It is clear that not every attendant circumstance affects the morality of the means taken.
Thus the blow under which Agamemnon sank was neither more nor less guiltily struck because
it was dealt with an axe, because it was under pretence of giving him a bath, or because his
feet were entangled in a long robe. These circumstances are all irrelevant. Those only are
relevant which attach some special reasonableness or unreasonableness to the thing done Thus
the provocation that Clytemnestra had from her husband's introduction of Cassandra into her
house made her act of vengeance less unreasonable: on the other hand it was rendered more unreasonable
by the circumstance of the dear and holy tie that binds wife to husband. The provocation and
the relationship were two relevant circumstances in that case.

10. But it happens sometimes that a circumstance only affects the reasonableness of an action
on the supposition of some previous circumstance so affecting it. Thus to carry off a thing
in large or small quantities does not affect the reasonableness of the carrying, unless there
be already some other circumstance attached that renders the act good or evil; as for instance,
if the goods that are being removed are stolen property. Circumstances of this sort are called
aggravating--or, as the case may be, extenuating--circumstances. Circumstances that of themselves,
and apart from any previous supposition, make the thing done peculiarly reasonable or unreasonable,
are called specifying circumstances. They are so called, because they place the action in some
species of virtue or vice; whereas aggravating or extenuating circumstances add to, or take
off from, the good or evil of the action in that species of virtue or vice to which it already
belongs.

11. A variety of specifying circumstances may place one and the same action in many various
species of virtue or vice. Thus a religious robbing his parents would sin at once against justice,
piety, and religion. A nun preferring death to dishonour practises three virtues, chastity,
fortitude, and religion.

12. The means chosen may be of four several characters:--

(a) A thing evil of itself and inexcusable under all conceivable circumstances; for instance,
blasphemy, idolatry, lying.

(b) Needing excuse, as the killing of a man, the looking at an indecent object. Such things
are not to be done except under certain circumstances and with a grave reason. Thus indecent
sights may be met in the discharge of professional duty. In that case indeed they cease to
be indecent. They are then only indecent when they are viewed without cause. The absence of
a good motive in a case like this commonly implies the presence of a bad one.

(c) Indifferent, as walking or sitting down.

(d) Good of itself, but liable to be vitiated by circumstances, as prayer and almsgiving; the
good of such actions may be destroyed wholly or in part by their being done out of a vain motive,
or unseasonably, or indiscreetly.

13. It is said, "If thy eye be single, thy whole body shall be lightsome." (St. Matt., vi.,
22.) The eye is the intention contemplating the end in view. Whoever has placed a good end
before him, and regards it steadily with a well-ordered love, never swerving in his affection
from the way that reason would have him love, must needs take towards his end those means,
and those only, which are in themselves reasonable and just: as it is written: "Thou shalt
follow justly after that which is just." (Deut. xvi., 20.) Thus I am building a church to the
glory of God; money runs short: I perceive that by signing a certain contract that must mean
grievous oppression of the poor, I shall save considerable expense, whereas, if I refuse, the
works will have to be abandoned for want of funds. If I have purely the glory of God before
my eyes, I certainly shall not sign that contract: for injustice I know can bear no fruit of
Divine glory. But if I am bent upon having the building up in any case, of course I shall sign:
but then my love for the end in view is no longer pure and regulated by reason: it is not God
but myself that I am seeking in the work. Thus an end entirely just, holy, and pure, purifies
and sanctifies the means, not formally, by investing with a character of justice means in themselves
unjust, for that is impossible,--the leopard cannot change his spots,--but by way of elimination,
removing unjust means as ineligible to my purpose, and leaving me only those means to choose
from which are in themselves just.

14. With means in themselves indifferent, the case is otherwise. A holy and pious end does
formally sanctify those means, while a wicked end vitiates them. I beg the reader to observe
what sort of means are here in question. There is no question of means in themselves or in
their circumstances unjust, as theft, lying, murder, but of such indifferent things as reading,
writing, painting, singing, travelling. Whoever travels to commit sin at the end of his journey,
his very travelling, so far as it is referred to that end, is part of his sin: it is a wicked
journey that he takes. And he who travels to worship at some shrine or place of pilgrimage,
includes his journey in his devotion. The end in view there sanctifies means in themselves
indifferent.

15. As a great part of the things that we do are indifferent as well in themselves as in the
circumstances of the doing of them, the moral character of our lives depends largely on the
ends that we habitually propose to ourselves. One man's great thought is how to make money;
what he reads, writes, says, where he goes, where he elects to reside, his very eating, drinking
and personal expenditure, all turns on what he calls making his fortune. It is all to gain
money--quocunque modo rem. Another is active for bettering the condition of the labouring classes:
a third for the suppression of vice. These three men go some way together in a common orbit
of small actions, alike to the eye, but morally unlike, because of the various guiding purposes
for which they are done. Hence, when we consider such pregnant final ends as the service of
God and the glory of a world to come, it appears how vast is the alteration in the moral line
and colouring of a man's life, according to his practical taking up or setting aside of these
great ends.

16. We must beware however of an exaggeration here. The final end of action is often latent,
not explicitly considered. A fervent worshipper of God wishes to refer his whole self with
all that he does to the Divine glory and service. Yet such a one will eat, drink, and be merry
with his friends, not thinking of God at the time. Still, supposing him to keep within the
bounds of temperance, he is serving God and doing good actions. But what of a man who has entirely
broken away from God, what of his eating, drinking, and other actions that are of their kind
indifferent? We cannot call them sins: there is nothing wrong about them, neither in the thing
done, nor in the circumstances of the doing, nor in the intention. Pius V. condemned the proposition:
"All the works of infidels are sins." Neither must we call such actions indifferent in the
individual who does them, supposing them to be true human acts, according to the definition,
and not done merely mechanically. They are not indifferent, because they receive a certain
measure of natural goodness from the good natural purpose which they serve, namely, the conservation
and well-being of the agent. Every human act is either good or evil in him who does it. I speak
of natural goodness only.

17. The effect consequent upon an action is distinguishable from the action itself, from which
it is not unfrequently separated by a considerable interval of time, as the death of a man
from poison administered a month before. The effect consequent enters into morality only in
so far as it is either chosen as a means or intended as an end (nn. 2, 3, p. 31), or is annexed
as a relevant circumstance to the means chosen (n. 9, p. 34.). Once the act is done, it matters
nothing to morality whether the effect consequent actually ensues or not, provided no new act
be elicited thereupon, whether of commission or of culpable omission to prevent. It matters
not to morality, but it does matter to the agent's claim to reward or liability to punishment
at the hands of human legislators civil and ecclesiastical.

18. As soul and body make one man, so the inward and outward act--as the will to strike and
the actual blow struck--are one human act. The outward act gives a certain physical completeness
to the inward. Moreover the inward act is no thorough-going thing, if it stops short of outward
action where the opportunity offers. Otherwise, the inward act may be as good or as bad morally
as inward and outward act together. The mere wish to kill, where the deed is impossible, may
be as wicked as wish and deed conjoined. It may be, but commonly it will not, for this reason,
that the outward execution of the deed reacts upon the will and calls it forth with greater
intensity; the will as it were expands where it finds outward vent. There is no one who has
not felt the relative mildness of inward feelings of impatience or indignation, compared with
those engendered by speaking out one's mind. Often also the outward act entails a long course
of preparation, all during which the inward will is sustained and frequently renewed, as in
a carefully planned burglary.

Readings.--St. Thos., 1a 2ae, q. 18, art. 1; ib., q. 18, art. 2, in corp., ad 1; ib., q. 18,
art. 3, in corp., ad 2; ib., q. 18, art. 4-6; ib., q. 18, art. 8, in corp., ad 2, 3; ib., q.
18, art. 9, in corp., ad 3; ib., q. 18, art. 10, 3; ib., q. 18, art. 11, in corp.; ib., q.
20, art. 4, in corp.

CHAPTER IV.

OF PASSIONS.

SECTION I.--Of Passions in General.

1. A passion is defined to be: A movement of the irrational part of the soul, attended by a
notable alteration of the body, on the apprehension of good or evil. The soul is made up of
intellect, will, and sensible appetite. The first two are rational, the third irrational: the
third is the seat of the passions. In a disembodied spirit, or an angel, there are no senses,
no sensible appetite, no passions. The angel, or the departed soul, can love and hate, fear
and desire, rejoice and grieve, but these are not passions in the pure spirit, they are acts
of intellect and will alone. So man also often loves and hates, and does other acts that are
synonymous with corresponding passions, and yet no passion is there. The man is working with
his calm reason: his irrational soul is not stirred. To an author, when he is in the humour
for it, it is a delight to be writing, but not a passionate delight. The will finds satisfaction
in the act: the irrational soul is not affected by it. Or a penitent is sorry for his sin:
he sincerely regrets it before God: his will is heartily turned away, and wishes that that
sin had never been: at the same time his eye is dry, his features unmoved, not a sigh does
he utter, and yet he is truly sorry. It is important to bear these facts in mind: else we shall
be continually mistaking for passions what are pure acts of will, or vice versa, misled by
the identity of name.

2. The great mark of a passion is its sensible working of itself out upon the body,--what Dr.
Bain calls "the diffusive wave of emotion." Without this mark there is no passion, but with
it are other mental states besides passions, as we define them. All strong emotion affects
the body sensibly, but not all emotions are passions. There are emotions that arise from and
appertain to the rational portion of the soul. Such are Surprise, Laughter, Shame.

There is no sense of humour in any but rational beings; and though dogs look ashamed and horses
betray curiosity, that is only inasmuch as in these higher animals there is something analogous
to what is reason in man. Moreover passions are conversant with good and evil affecting sense,
but the objects of such emotions as those just mentioned are not good and evil as such, common
parlance notwithstanding, whereby we are said to laugh at a bon mot, or "a good thing."

3. Love is a generic passion, having for its species desire and delight, the contraries of
which are abhorrence and pain. Desire is of absent good; abhorrence is of absent evil; delight
is in present good; pain is at present evil. The good and the evil which is the object of any
passion must be apprehended by sense, or by imagination in a sensible way, whether itself be
a thing of sense or not.

4. Desire and abhorrence, delight and pain, are conversant with good and evil simply. But good
is often attainable only by an effort, and evil avoidable by an effort. The effort that good
costs to attain casts a shade of evil or undesirableness over it: we may shrink from the effort
while coveting the good. Again, the fact of evil being at all avoidable is a good thing about
such evil. If we call evil black, and good white, avoidable evil will be black just silvering
into grey: and arduous good will be white with a cloud on it. And if the white attracts, and
the black repels the appetite, it appears that arduous good is somewhat distasteful, to wit,
to the faint-hearted; and avoidable, or vincible, evil has its attraction for the man of spirit.
About these two objects, good hard of getting and evil hard of avoidance, arise four other
passions, hope and despair about the former, fear and daring about the latter. Hope goes out
towards a difficult good: despair flies from it, the difficulty here being more repellent than
the good is attractive. Fear flies from a threatening evil: while daring goes up to the same,
drawn by the likelihood of vanquishing it. Desire and abhorrence, delight and pain, hope and
despair, fear and daring, with anger and hatred (of which presently), complete our list of
passions.

5. Aristotle and his school of old, called Peripatetics, recommended the moderation of the
passions, not their extirpation. The Stoics on the other hand contended that the model man,
the sage, should be totally devoid of passions. This celebrated dispute turned largely on the
two schools not understanding the same thing by the word passion. Yet not entirely so. There
was a residue of real difference, and it came to this. If the sensitive appetite stirs at all,
it must stir in one or other of nine ways corresponding to the nine passions which we have
enumerated. Such an emotion as Laughter affects the imagination and the sensitive part of man,
and of course the body visibly, but it does not stir the sensitive appetite, since it does
not prompt to action. To say then that a man has no passions, means that the sensitive appetite
never stirs within him, but is wholly dead. But this is impossible, as the Stoic philosopher
was fain to confess when he got frightened in a storm at sea. Having no passions cannot in
any practical sense mean having no movements of the sensitive appetite, for that will be afoot
of its own proper motion independent of reason: but it may mean cherishing no passions, allowing
none to arise unresisted, but suppressing their every movement to the utmost that the will
can. In that sense it is a very intelligible and practical piece of advice, that the wise man
should labour to have no passions. It is the advice embodied in Horace's Nil admirari, Talleyrand's
"No zeal," Beaconsfield's "Beware of enthusiasm." It would have man to work like a scientific
instrument, calm as a chronometer, regulated by reason alone. This was the Stoic teaching,
this the perfection that they inculcated, quite a possible goal to make for, if not to attain.
And it is worth a wise man's while to consider, whether he should bend his efforts in this
direction or not. The determination here taken and acted upon will elaborate quite a different
character of man one way or the other. The effort made as the Stoics direct, would mean no
yielding to excitement, no poetry, no high-strung devotion, no rapture, no ecstasy, no ardour
of love, no earnest rhetoric spoken or listened to, no mourning, no rejoicing other than the
most conventional, to the persistent smothering of whatever is natural and really felt, no
tear of pity freely let flow, no touch of noble anger responded to, no scudding before the
breeze of indignation,--all this, that reason may keep on the even tenour of her way undisturbed.

6. The fault in this picture is that it is not the picture of a man, but of a spirit. He who
being man should try to realize it in himself, would fall short of human perfection. For though
the sensitive appetite is distinguished from the will, and the two may clash and come in conflict,
yet they are not two wholly independent powers, but the one man is both will and sensitive
appetite, and he rarely operates according to one power without the other being brought into
corresponding play. There is a similar concomitance of the operations of intellect and imagination.
What attracts the sensitive appetite, commonly allures also the affective will, though on advertence
the elective will may reject it. On the other hand, a strong affection and election of the
will cannot be without the sensitive appetite being stirred, and that so strongly that the
motion is notable in the body,--in other words, is a passion. Passion is the natural and in
a certain degree the inseparable adjunct of strong volition. To check one is to check the other.
Not only is the passion repressed by repressing the volition, but the repression of the passion
is also the repression of the volition. A man then who did his best to repress all movements
of passion indiscriminately, would lay fetters on his will, lamentable and cruel and impolitic
fetters, where his will was bent on any object good and honourable and well-judged.

7. Again, man's will is reached by two channels, from above downwards and from below upwards:
it is reached through the reason and through the imagination and senses. By the latter channel
it often receives evil impressions, undoubtedly, but not unfrequently by the former also. Reason
may be inconsiderate, vain, haughty, mutinous, unduly sceptical. The abuse is no justification
for closing either channel. Now the channel of the senses and of the imagination is the wider,
and in many cases affords the better passage of the two. The will that is hardly reached by
reason, is approached and won by a pathetic sight, a cry of enthusiasm, a threat that sends
a tremor through the limbs. Rather I should say the affective will is approached in this way:
for it remains with the elective will, on advertence and consultation with reason, to decide
whether or not it shall be won to consent. But were it not for the channel of passion, this
will could never have been approached at all even by reasons the most cogent. Rhetoric often
succeeds, where mere dry logic would have been thrown away. God help vast numbers of the human
race, if their wills were approachable only through their reasons! They would indeed be fixtures.

8. Another fact to notice is the liability of reason's gaze to become morbid and as it were
inflamed by unremitting exercise. I do not here allude to hard study, but to overcurious scanning
of the realities of this life, and the still greater realities and more momentous possibilities
of the world to come. There is a sense of the surroundings being too much for us, an alarm
and a giddiness, that comes of sober matter-of-fact thought over-much prolonged. Then it happens
that one or more undeniable truths are laid hold of, and considered in strong relief and in
isolation from the rest: the result is a distorted and partial view of truth as a whole, and
therewith the mind is troubled. Here the kindlier passions, judiciously allowed to play, come
in to soothe the wound and soreness of pure intellect, too keen in its workings for one who
is not yet a pure spirit.

9. Moral good and evil are predicable only of human acts, in the technical sense of the term.
(c. i., nn. 2--4, p. 41.) As the passions by definition (c. iv., s. i., n. 1, p. 41) are not
human acts, they can never be morally evil of themselves. But they are an occasion of moral
evil in this way. They often serve to wake up the slumbering Reason. To that end it is necessary
that they should start up of themselves without the call of Reason. This would be no inconvenience,
if the instant Reason awoke, and adverted to the tumult and stir of Passion, she could take
command of it, and where she saw fit, quell it. But Reason has no such command, except in cases
where she has acquired it by years of hard fighting. Passion once afoot holds on her course
against the dictate of Reason. True, so long as it remains mere Passion, and Reason is not
dragged away by it, no consent of the will given, no voluntary act elicited, still less carried
into outward effect,--so long as things remain thus, however Passion may rage, there is no
moral evil done. But there is a great temptation, and in great temptation many men fall. The
evil is the act of free will, but the pressure on the will is the pressure of Passion. But
Passion happily is a young colt amenable to discipline. Where the assaults of Passion are resolutely
and piously withstood, and the incentives thereto avoided--unnatural and unnecessary incentives
I mean--Passion itself acquires a certain habit of obedience to Reason, which habit is moral
virtue. Of that presently.

10. In a man of confirmed habits of moral virtue, Passion starts up indeed independently of
Reason, but then Reason ordinarily finds little difficulty in regulating the Passion so aroused.
In a certain high and extraordinary condition of human nature, not only has Reason entire mastery
over Passion wherever she finds it astir, but Passion cannot stir in the first instance, without
Reason calling upon it to do so. In this case the torpor of the will deprecated above (n. 7)
is not to be feared, because Reason is so vigorous and so masterful as to be adequate to range
everywhere and meet all emergencies without the goad of Passion. This state is called by divines
the state of integrity. In it Adam was before he sinned. It was lost at the Fall, and has not
been restored by the Redemption. It is not a thing in any way due to human nature: nothing
truly natural to man was forfeited by Adam's sin. It is no point of holiness, no guerdon of
victory, this state of integrity, but rather a being borne on angel's wings above the battle.
But one who has no battle in his own breast against Passion, may yet suffer and bleed and die
under exterior persecution: nay, he may, if he wills, let in Passion upon himself, to fear
and grieve, when he need not. So did the Second Adam in the Garden of Gethsemane.

Readings.--St. Thos., 1a, q. 81, art. 2, in corp.; id., 1a 2a, q. 23, art. 1, in corp.; ib.,
q. 23, art. 2, in corp.; Cicero, Tusc. Disp., iv., cc. 17-26; St. Aug., De Civitate Dei, ix.,
cc. 4, 5; Ar, Eth., III., v., 3, 4; ib., I., xiii., 15-17; St. Thos., 3a, q. 15, art. 4; id.,
1a 2a, q. 59, art. 5; Plato, Timaeus, 69, B, E: 70, A.

SECTION II.--Of Desire.

1. Desires are either physical cravings, by moderns called appetites; or physical desires or
tastes, called desires proper. The appetites have their beginning in bodily uneasiness. They
are felt needs of something required for the animal maintenance of the individual or of the
race. The objects of the several appetites are Meat and Drink, Warmth or Coolness, Exercise
and Repose, Sleep, Sex. The object of mere appetite is marked by quantity only, not by quality.
That is to say, the thing is sought for in the vague, in a certain amount sufficient to supply
the want, but not this or that variety of the thing. The cry of a hungry man is, "Give me to
eat," if very hungry, "Give me much:" but so far as he is under the mere dominion of appetite
he does not crave any particular article of food, vegetable or animal: he wants quantity merely.
So of thirst, so of all the appetites, where there is nothing else but appetite present.

2. But if a thirsty man cries for champagne, or a hungry man fancies a venison pasty, there
is another element beyond appetite in that demand. On the matter of the physical craving there
is stamped the form of a psychical desire. The psychical element prescribes a quality of the
objects sought. The thirsty man thus prompted no longer wants drink but wine: the man mewed
up within doors no longer calls for exercise, but for a horse or a bicycle. It is obvious that
in man the appetites generally pass into the further shape of psychical desire. It is when
the appetite is vehement, or the man is one who makes slight study of his animal wants, that
pure appetite, sheer physical craving, is best shown. Darius flying before his conqueror is
ready to drink at any source, muddy or clear, a drink is all that he wants: it is all that
is wanted by St. Paul the first Hermit. But your modern lounger at the clubs, what variety
of liquors are excogitated to please his palate!

3. Not all psychical desires are on the matter of appetite; they may be fixed on any good whatsoever
of body or of mind. Many psychical desires are not passions at all, but reside exclusively
in the superior part of the soul, in the will prompted by the understanding, and do not affect
the body in any sensible way. Such for instance is the great desire of happiness. Those desires
that are passions are prompted, not by the understanding, but by the imagination or fancy,
imaging to itself some particular good, not good in general, for that the understanding contemplates.
Fancy paints the picture; or if sense presents it, fancy appropriates and embellishes it: the
sensitive appetite fastens upon the representation: the bodily organs sensibly respond; and
there is the passion of psychical desire.

4. Physical cravings, or appetites, have limited objects: the objects of psychical desires
may be unlimited. A thirsty man thirsts not for an ocean, but for drink quantum sufficit: give
him that and the appetite is gone. But the miser covets all the money that he can get: the
voluptuary ranges land and sea in search of a new pleasure: the philosopher ever longs for
a higher knowledge: the saint is indefatigable in doing good. Whatever a man takes to be an
end in itself, not simply a means, that he desires without end or measure. What he desires
as a means, he desires under a limitation, so far forth as it makes for the end, so much and
no more. As Aristotle says of the processes of art, "the end in view is the limit," [Greek:
peras to telos] (cf. c. ii., s. iii., n. 3, p. 15) Whatever is desired as an end in itself,
is taken to be a part of happiness, or to represent happiness. Happiness and the object that
gives happiness is the one thing that man desires for itself, and desires without end or measure.
Unfortunately he is often mistaken in the choice of this object. He often takes for an end
what is properly only a means. They "whose god is their belly," have made this mistake in regard
of the gratification of appetite. It is not appetite proper that has led to this perversion,
but psychical desire, or appetite inflamed by the artificial stimulus of imagination. For one
who would be temperate, it is more important to control his imagination than to trouble about
his appetite. Appetite exhausts itself, sometimes within the bounds of what is good for the
subject, sometimes beyond them, but still within some bounds; but there is no limit to the
cravings bred of imagination.

5. By this canon a man may try himself to discover whether or not a favourite amusement is
gaining too much upon him. An amusement is properly a means to the end, that a man may come
away from it better fitted to do the serious work of his life. Pushed beyond a certain point,
the amusement ceases to minister to this end. The wise man drops it at that point. But if one
knows not where to stop: or if when stopped in spite of himself, he is restless till he begin
again, and never willingly can forego any measure of the diversion that comes within his reach,
the means in that case has passed into an end: he is enslaved to that amusement, inasmuch as
he will do anything and everything for the sake of it. Thus some men serve pleasure, and other
men money.

6. Hence is apparent the folly of supposing that crimes against property are preventible simply
by placing it within the power of all members of the community easily to earn an honest livelihood,
and therewith the satisfaction of all their natural needs. It is not merely to escape cold
and hunger that men turn to burglary or fraudulent dealing: it is more for the gratification
of a fancy, the satisfaction of an inordinate desire. Great crimes are not committed "to keep
the wolf from the door," but because of the wolf in the heart, the overgrown psychical desire,
which is bred in many a well-nourished, warmly clad, comfortably housed, highly educated citizen.
There is a sin born of "fulness of bread."

Readings.--St. Thos., 1a 2a, q. 30, art. 3, in corp.; ib., q. 30, art. 4, in corp.; Ar., Eth.,
III., xi., 1-4: Ar., Pol., I., ix., 13; ib., II., vii., 11-13.

N.B.--The division of desires into physical and psychical is first suggested by Plato, who
(Rep. 558 D to 559 C) divides them as necessary and unnecessary. Unnecessary desires he treats
as evil. What Plato calls a necessary, Aristotle calls a physical, and St. Thomas a natural
desire. Unfortunately, Aristotle and St. Thomas had but one word for our English two, physical
and natural. Desires that are not physical, not natural nor necessary to man in his animal
capacity, may be highly natural and becoming to man as he is a reasonable being, or they may
be highly unbecoming. These psychical desires, called by St. Thomas not natural, take in at
once the noblest and the basest aspirations of humanity.

SECTION III.--Of Delight.

1. Delight like desire may be either physical or psychical. All that has been said above of
desire under this division applies also to delight, which is the realization of desire. This
division does not altogether fall in with that into sensual delights and intellectual delights.
A professional wine-taster could hardly be said to find intellectual delight in a bottle of
good Champagne, real Veuve-Clicquot: yet certainly his is a psychical delight, no mere unsophisticated
gratification of appetite. Sensual delights then are those delights which are founded on the
gratification of appetite, whether simple--in which case the delight is physical--or studied
and fancy-wrought appetite, the gratification of which is psychical delight. Intellectual delights
on the other hand are those that come of the exercise of intellect, not unsupported by imagination,
but where appetite enters not at all, or only as a remote adjunct, albeit the delight may turn
upon some sight or sound, as of music, or of a fine range of hills. Or the object may be a
thing of intellect, pure and removed from sense as far as an object of human contemplation
can be, for instance, the first elements of matter, freewill, the immensity of God. The study
of such objects yields a purer intellectual delight than that of the preceding. But this is
a high ground and a keen upper air, where few can tread and breathe.

2. A man has more complacency in himself upon attaining to some intellectual delight than upon
a sensual satisfaction: he is prouder to have solved a problem than to have enjoyed his dinner.
Also, he would rather forego the capacity of sensual enjoyment than that of intellectual pleasure;
rather lose his sense of taste than his science or his scholarship, if he has any notable amount
of either. Again, put sensual delight in one scale, and in the other the intellectual delight
of honour, no worthy specimen of a man will purchase the pleasure at the price of honour. The
disgrace attaching to certain modes of enjoyment is sufficient to make men shun them, very
pleasant though they be to sense. Again, sensual delight is a passing thing, waxing and waning:
but intellectual delight is steady, grasped and held firmly as a whole. But sensual delight
comes more welcome of the two in this that it removes a pre-existing uneasiness, as hunger,
weariness, nervous prostration, thus doing a medicinal office: whereas no such office attaches
in the essential nature of things to intellectual delight, as that does not presuppose any
uneasiness; and though it may remove uneasiness, the removal is difficult, because the uneasiness
itself is an obstacle to the intellectual effort that must be made to derive any intellectual
delight. Sensual enjoyment is the cheaper physician, and ailing mortals mostly resort to that door.

3. "I will omit much usual declamation on the dignity and capacity of our nature: the superiority
of the soul to the body, of the rational to the animal part of our constitution; upon the worthiness,
refinement, and delicacy of some satisfactions, or the meanness, grossness, and sensuality
of others: because I hold that pleasures differ in nothing but in continuance and intensity."
(Paley, Moral Philosophy, bk. i., c. vi.)

In opposition to the above it is here laid down that delights do not differ in continuance
and intensity, that is, in quantity, alone, but likewise in quality, that is, some are nobler,
better, and more becoming a man than others, and therefore preferable on other grounds than
those of mere continuance and intensity. I wish to show that the more pleasant pleasure is
not always the better pleasure; that even the pleasure which is more durable, and thereby more
pleasant in the long run, is not the better of the two simply as carrying the greater cumulus
of pleasure. If this is shown, it will follow that pleasure is not identical with good; or
that pleasure is not happiness, not the last end of man.

4. Delight comes of activity, not necessarily of change, except so far as activity itself involves
change, as it always does in mortal man. Delight sits upon activity, as the bloom upon youth.
Bloom is the natural sign of maturity; and the delight that we come to take in doing a thing
shows that we are at least beginning to do it well: our activity is approaching perfection.
In this sense it is said that delight perfects activity. As the activity, so will be the delight.
But the activity will be as the power of which it is an exercise. Powers like in kind will
supply like activities, and these again will yield delights alike in kind. There is no difference
of quality in such delights, they differ in quantity alone. Thus taste and smell are two senses:
the difference between them can hardly be called one of kind: therefore the delights of smelling
and of tasting fall under one category. We may exchange so much smell for an equal amount of
taste: it is a mere matter of quantity. But between sight and hearing on the one hand, and
taste and smell and touch on the other, there is a wider difference, due to the fact that intellect
allies itself more readily to the operation of the two former senses.

5. Widest of all differences is that between sense and intellect. To explain this difference
in full belongs to Psychology. Enough to say here that the object of sense is always particular,
bound up in circumstances of present time and place, as this horse: while the object of intellect
is universal, as horse simply. The human intellect never works without the concurrence either
of sense or of imagination, which is as it were sense at second hand. As pure intellectual
operation is never found in man, so neither is pure intellectual delight, like that of an angel.
Still, as even in man sense and intellect are two powers differing in kind, so must their operations
differ in kind, and the delights consequent upon those operations. Therefore, unless Paley
would have been willing to allow that the rational and animal parts of our nature differ only
as more and less--which is tantamount to avowing that man is but a magnified brute--he ought
not to have penned his celebrated utterance, that pleasures differ only in continuance and
intensity: he should have admitted that they differ likewise in kind; or in other words, that
pleasures differ in quality as well as in quantity. The goodness of a pleasure, then, is not
the mere amount of it. To repeat St. Augustine's reflection on the drunken Milanese: "It makes
a difference what source a man draws his delight from." [Footnote 2] As in man reason is nobler
than sense, preferable, and a better good to its possessor--for reason it is that makes him
man and raises him above the brute--so the use of the reason and the delight that comes thereof
is nobler, preferable, and a better good to him than the pleasure that is of the mere operation
of his animal nature. A little of the nobler delight outweighs a vast volume of the baser:
not that the nobler is the pleasanter, but because it is the nobler. Nor can it be pretended
that the nobler prevails as being the more durable, and thereby likely to prove the pleasanter
in the long run. The nobler is better at the time and in itself, because it is the more human
delight and characteristic of the higher species. I have but to add that what is better in
itself is not better under all circumstances. The best life of man can only be lived at intervals.
The lower operations and the delights that go with them have a medicinal power to restore the
vigour that has become enfeebled by a lengthened exercise of the higher faculties. At those
"dead points" food and fiddling are better than philosophy.

[Footnote 2: Interest unde quis gaudeat. (S. Aug., Confess., vi., 6.)]

6. This medicinal or restorative virtue of delight is a fact to bear in mind in debating the
question how far it is right to act for the pleasure that the action gives. It is certainly
wrong to act for mere animal gratification. Such gratification is a stimulus to us to do that
which makes for the well-being of our nature: to fling away all intention of any good other
than the delight of the action, is to mistake the incentive for the end proposed. But this
is a doctrine easily misunderstood. An example may save it from being construed too rigidly.
Suppose a man has a vinery, and being fond of fruit he goes there occasionally, and eats, not
for hunger, but as he says, because he likes grapes. He seems to act for mere pleasure: yet
who shall be stern enough to condemn him, so that he exceed not in quantity? If he returns
from the vinery in a more amiable and charitable mood, more satisfied with Providence, more
apt to converse with men and do his work in the commonwealth, who can deny that in acting in
view of these ends, at least implicitly, he has taken lawful means to a proper purpose? He
has not been fed, but recreated: he has not taken nourishment, but medicine, preventive or
remedial, to a mind diseased. It is no doubt a sweet and agreeable medicine: this very agreeableness
makes its medical virtue. It is a sweet antidote to the bitterness of life. But though a man
may live by medicine, he does not live for it. So no man by rights lives for pleasure. The
pleasure that a man finds in his work encourages him to go on with it. The pleasure that a
man finds by turning aside to what is not work, picks him up, rests and renovates him, that
he may go forth as from a wayside inn, or diverticulum, refreshed to resume the road of labour.
Hence we gather the solution of the question as to the lawfulness of acting for pleasure. If
a man does a thing because it is pleasant, and takes the pleasure as an incentive to carry
on his labour, or as a remedy to enable him to resume it, he acts for pleasure rightly. For
this it is not necessary that he should expressly think of the pleasure as being helpful to
labour: it is enough that he accepts the subordination of pleasure to work as nature has ordained
it; and this ordinance he does accept, if he puts forth no positive volition the other way,
whether expressly, as none but a wrong-headed theologian is likely to do, or virtually, by
taking his pleasure with such greediness that the motion of his will is all spent therein as
in its last end and terminus, so that the pleasure ceases to be referable to aught beyond itself,
a case of much easier occurrence. Or lastly, the natural subordination of pleasure to work
may be set aside, defeated, and rendered impossible by the whole tenour of an individual's
life, if he be one of those giddy butterflies who flit from pleasure to pleasure and do no
work at all. Till late in the morning he sleeps, then breakfasts, then he shoots, lunches,
rides, bathes, dines, listens to music, smokes, and reads fiction till late at night, then
sleeps again; and this, or the like of this is his day, some three hundred days at least in
the year. This is not mere acting for pleasure, it is living for pleasure, or acting for pleasure
so continuously as to leave no scope for any further end of life. It may be hard to indicate
the precise hour in which this man's pleasure-seeking passes into sin: still this is clear,
his life is not innocent. Clear him of gluttony and lust, there remains upon him the sin of
sloth and of a wasted existence.

7. Even the very highest of delights, the delight of contemplation, is not the highest of goods,
but a concomitant of the highest good. The highest good is the final object of the will: but
the object of the will is not the will's own act: we do not will willing, as neither do we
understand understanding, not at least without a reflex effort. What we will in contemplating
is, not to be delighted, but to see. This is the subjective end and happiness of man, to see,
to contemplate. Delight is not anything objective: neither is it the subjective last end of
humanity. In no sense then is delight, or pleasure, the highest good.

Readings.--Ar., Eth., X., iv., 8; ib., X., iii., 8-13, ib., X., v., 1-5; Plato, Gorgias, pp.
494, 495; Mill, Utilitarianism, 2nd. edit., pp. 11-l6; St. Thos., la 2a, q. 31, art. 5; id.,
Contra Gentiles, iii., 26, nn. 8, 10, 11, 12.

SECTION IV.--Of Anger.

1. Anger is a compound passion, made up of displeasure, desire, and hope: displeasure at a
slight received, desire of revenge and satisfaction, and hope of getting the same, the getting
of it being a matter of some difficulty and calling for some exertion, for we are not angry
with one who lies wholly in our power, or whom we despise. Anger then is conversant at once
with the good of vengeance and with the evil of a slight received: the good being somewhat
difficult to compass, and the evil not altogether easy to wipe out. (Cf. s.i., n.4, p. 43.)

2. Anger is defined: A desire of open vengeance for an open slight, attended with displeasure
at the same, the slight being put upon self, or upon some dear one, unbefittingly. The vengeance
that the angry man craves is a vengeance that all shall see. "No, ye unnatural hags," cries
Lear in his fury, "I will do such things,--what they shall be yet I know not, but they shall
be the terror of the earth." When we are angry, we talk of "making an example" of the offender.
The idea is that, as all the world has seen us slighted and set at naught, so all the world,
witnessing the punishment of the offending party, may take to heart the lesson which we are
enforcing upon him, namely, that we are men of might and importance whom none should despise.
Whoever is angry, is angry at being despised, flouted to his face and set at naught, either
in his own person, or in the person of one whom he venerates and loves, or in some cause that
lies near to his heart. Anger is essentially a craving for vengeance on account of a wrong
done. If then we have suffered, but think we deserve to suffer, we are not angry. If we have
suffered wrong, but the wrong seems to have been done in ignorance, or in the heat of passion,
we are not angry, or we are not so very angry. "If he had known what he was about," we say,
or, "if he had been in his right mind, he could not have brought himself to treat me so." But
when one has done us cool and deliberate wrong, then we are angry, because the slight is most
considerable. There is an appearance of our claims to considerations having been weighed, and
found wanting. We call it, "a cool piece of impertinence," "spiteful malevolence," and the
like. Any other motive to which the wrong is traceable on the part of the wrong-doer, lessens
our anger against him: but the motive of contempt, and that alone, if we seem to discover it
in him, invariably increases it. To this all other points are reducible that move our anger,
as forgetfulness, rudely delivered tidings of misfortune, a face of mirth looking on at our
distress, or getting in the way and thwarting our purpose.

3. Anger differs from hatred. Hatred is a chronic affection, anger an acute one. Hatred wishes
evil to a man as it is evil, anger as it is just. Anger wishes evil to fall on its object in
the sight of all men, and with the full consciousness of the sufferer: hatred is satisfied
with even a secret mischief, and, so that the evil be a grievous one, does not much mind whether
the sufferer be conscious of it or no. Thus an angry man may wish to see him who has offended
brought to public confession and shame: but a hater is well content to see his enemy spending
his fortune foolishly, or dead drunk in a ditch on a lonely wayside. The man in anger feels
grief and annoyance, not so the hater. At a certain point of suffering anger stops, and is
appeased when full satisfaction seems to have been made: but an enemy is implacable and insatiate
in his desire of your harm. St. Augustine in his Rule to his brethren says: "For quarrels,
either have them not, or end them with all speed, lest anger grow to hatred, and of a mote
make a beam."

4. Anger, like vengeance, is then only a safe course to enter on, when it proceeds not upon
personal but upon public grounds. And even by this maxim many deceive themselves.

Readings.--Ar., Rhet., ii., 2; ib., 4, ad fin.; St. Thos., 1a 2a, q. 46, art. 2, in corp.;
ib., q. 46, art. 3, in corp.; ib., q. 46, art. 6; ib., q. 47, art. 2.

CHAPTER V.

OF HABITS AND VIRTUES.

SECTION I.--Of Habit.

1. A habit is a quality difficult to change, whereby an agent whose nature it was to work one
way or another indeterminately, is disposed easily and readily at will to follow this or that
particular line of action. Habit differs from disposition, as disposition is a quality easily
changed. Thus one in a good humour is in a disposition to be kind. Habit is a part of character:
disposition is a passing fit. Again, habit differs from faculty, or power: as power enables
one to act; but habit, presupposing power, renders action easy and expeditious, and reliable
to come at call. We have a power to move our limbs, but a habit to walk or ride or swim. Habit
then is the determinant of power. One and the same power works well or ill, but not one and
the same habit.

2. A power that has only one way of working, set and fixed, is not susceptible of habit. Such
powers are the forces of inanimate nature, as gravitation and electricity. A thing does not
gravitate better for gravitating often. The moon does not obey the earth more readily to-day
than she did in the days of Ptolemy, or of the Chaldean sages. Some specious claim to habit
might be set up on behalf of electricity and magnetism. A glass rod rubbed at frequent intervals
for six months, is a different instrument from what it would have been, if left all that time
idle in a drawer. Then there are such cases as the gradual magnetising of an iron bar. Still
we cannot speak of electrical habits, or magnetic habits, not at least in things without life,
because there is no will there to control the exercise of the quality. As well might we speak
of a "tumbledown" habit in a row of houses, brought on by locomotives running underneath their
foundations. It is but a case of an accumulation of small effects, inducing gradually a new
molecular arrangement, so that the old powers act under new material conditions. But habit
is a thing of life, an appurtenance of will, not of course independent of material conditions
and structural alterations, in so far forth as a living and volitional is also a material agent,
but essentially usable at will, and brought into play and controlled in its operation by free
choice. Therefore a habit that works almost automatically has less of the character of a true
habit, and passes rather out of morality into the region of physics. Again, bad habits, vices
to which a man is become a slave against his better judgment, are less properly called habits
than virtues are; for such evil habits do not so much attend on volition (albeit volition has
created them) as drag the will in their wake. For the like reason, habit is less properly predicable
of brute animals than of men: for brutes have no intelligent will to govern their habits. The
highest brutes are most susceptible of habit. They are most like men in being most educable.
And, of human progeny, some take up habits, in the best and completest sense of the term, more
readily than others. They are better subjects for education: education being nothing else than
the formation of habits.

3. Knowledge consists of intellectual habits. But the habits of most consequence to the moralist
lie in the will, and in the sensitive appetite as amenable to the control of the will. In this
category come the virtues, in the ordinary sense of that name, and secondarily the vices.

4. A habit is acquired by acts. Whereupon this difficulty has been started:--If the habit,
say of mental application, comes from acts of study, and again the acts from the habit, how
ever is the habit originally acquired? We answer that there are two ways in which one thing
may come from another. It may come in point of its very existence, as child from parent; or
in point of some mode of existence, as scholar from master. A habit has its very existence
from acts preceding: but those acts have their existence independent of the habit. The acts
which are elicited after the habit is formed, owe to the habit, not their existence, but the
mode of their existence: that is to say, because of the habit the acts are now formed readily,
reliably, and artistically, or virtuously. The primitive acts which gradually engendered the
habit, were done with difficulty, fitfully, and with many failures,--more by good luck than
good management, if it was a matter of skill, and by a special effort rather than as a thing
of course, where it was question of moral well-doing. (See c.ii., s.ii., n.9, p. 10.)

5. A habit is a living thing: it grows and must be fed. It grows on acts, and acts are the
food that sustain it. Unexercised, a habit pines away: corruption sets in and disintegration.
A man, we will say, has a habit of thinking of God during his work. He gives over doing so.
That means that he either takes to thinking of everything and nothing, or he takes up some
definite line of thought to the exclusion of God. Either way there is a new formation to the
gradual ruin of the old habit.

6. Habit and custom may be distinguished in philosophical language. We may say that custom
makes the habit. Custom does not imply any skill or special facility. A habit is a channel
whereby the energies flow, as otherwise they would not have flowed, freely and readily in some
particular direction. A habit, then, is a determination of a faculty for good or for evil.
It is something intrinsic in a man, a real modification of his being, abiding in him in the
intervals between one occasion for its exercise and another: whereas custom is a mere denomination,
expressive of frequent action and no more. Thus it would be more philosophical to speak of
a custom of early rising, and of a custom of smoking, rather than of a habit of smoking, except
so far as, by the use of the word habit, you may wish to point to a certain acquired skill
of the respiratory and facial muscles, and a certain acquired temper of the stomach, enabling
one to inhale tobacco fumes with impunity.

7. Habits are acquired, but it is obvious that the rate of acquisition varies in different
persons. This comes from one person being more predisposed by nature than another to the acquiring
of this or that habit. By nature, that is by the native temper and conformation of his body
wherewith he was born, this child is more prone to literary learning, that to mechanics, this
one to obstinacy and contentiousness, that to sensuality, and so of the rest. For though it
is by the soul that a man learns, and by the act of his will and spiritual powers he becomes
a glutton or a zealot, nevertheless the bodily organs concur and act jointly towards these
ends. The native dispositions of the child's body for the acquisition of habits depend to an
unascertained extent upon the habits of his ancestors. This is the fact of heredity.

8. Man is said to be "a creature of habits." The formation of habits in the will saves the
necessity of continually making up the mind anew. A man will act as he has become habituated,
except under some special motive from without, or some special effort from within. In the case
of evil habits, that effort is attended with immense difficulty. The habit is indeed the man's
own creation, the outcome of his free acts. But he is become the bondslave of his creature,
so much so that when the occasion arrives, three-fourths of the act is already done, by the
force of the habit alone, before his will is awakened, or drowsily moves in its sleep. The
only way for the will to free itself here is not to wait for the occasion to come, but be astir
betimes, keep the occasion at arm's length, and register many a determination and firm protest
and fervent prayer against the habit. He who neglects to do this in the interval has himself
to blame for being overcome every time that he falls upon the occasion which brings into play
the evil habit.

Readings.--St. Thos., 1a 2a, q. 49, art. 4, ad 1, 2; ib., q. 50, art. 3, in corp., ad. 1, 2;
ib., q. 51, art. 1, in corp.; ib., q. 53, art. 3, in corp.; Ar., Eth., II., i.; ib., III.,
v., 10-14; ib., II., iv., 1, 2, 4.

SECTION II.--Of Virtues in General.

1. Virtue in its most transcendental sense means the excellence of a thing according to its
kind. Thus it is the virtue of the eye to see, and of a horse to be fleet of foot. Vice is
a flaw in the make of a thing, going to render it useless for the purpose to which it was ordained.
From the ethical standpoint, virtue is a habit that a man has got of doing moral good, or doing
that which it befits his rational nature to do: and vice is a habit of doing moral evil. (See
c. i., n. 5.) It is important to observe that virtue and vice are not acts but habits. Vices
do not make a man guilty, nor do virtues make him innocent. A man is guilty or innocent according
to his acts, not according to his habits. A man may do a wicked thing and not be vicious, or
a good action and not be virtuous. But no man is vicious who has not done one, two, aye, many
wicked things: and to be virtuous, a man must have performed many acts of virtue. Children
do right and wrong, but they have neither virtues nor vices except in a nascent state: there
has not yet been time in them for the habits to be formed. When sin is taken away by God and
pardoned, the vice, that is, the evil habit, if any such existed before, still remains, and
constitutes a danger for the future. The habit can only be overcome by watchfulness and a long
continuance of contrary acts. But vice is not sin, nor is sin vice, nor a good deed a virtue.

2. The name of virtue is given to certain habits residing in the intellect, as intuition or
insight (into self-evident truths), wisdom (regarding conclusions of main application), science
(of conclusions in special departments), and art. These are called intellectual virtues.

It was a peculiarity of Socrates' teaching, largely shared by Plato, to make all virtue intellectual,
a doctrine expressed in the formula, Virtue is knowledge; which is tantamount to this other,
Vice is ignorance, or an erroneous view. From whence the conclusion is inevitable: No evil
deed is wilfully done; and therefore, No man is to blame for being wicked.

3. Undoubtedly there is a certain element of ignorance in all vice, and a certain absence of
will about every vicious act. There is likewise an intellectual side to all virtue. These positions
we willingly concede to the Socratics. Every morally evil act is borne of some voluntary inconsiderateness.
The agent is looking the wrong way in the instant at which he does wrong. Either he is regarding
only the solicitations of his inferior nature to the neglect of the superior, or he is considering
some rational good indeed, but a rational good which, if he would look steadily upon it, he
would perceive to be unbefitting for him to choose. No man can do evil in the very instant
in which his understanding is considering, above all things else, that which it behoves him
specially to consider in the case. Again, in every wrong act, it is not the sheer evil that
is willed, but the good through or with the evil. Good, real or supposed, is sought for: evil
is accepted as leading to good in the way of means, or annexed thereto as a circumstance. Moreover,
no act is virtuous that is elicited quite mechanically, or at the blind instance of passion.
To be virtuous, the thing must be done on principle, that is, at the dictate of reason and
by the light of intellect.

4. Still, virtue is not knowledge. There are other than intellectual habits needed to complete
the character of a virtuous man. "I see the better course and approve it, and follow the worse,"
said the Roman poet. [Footnote 3] "The evil which I will not, that I do," said the Apostle.
It is not enough to have an intellectual discernment of and preference for what is right: but
the will must be habituated to embrace it, and the passions too must be habituated to submit
and square themselves to right being done. In other words, a virtuous man is made up by the
union of enlightened intellect with the moral virtues. The addition is necessary for several
reasons.

[Footnote 3: Video meliora proboque,/Deteriora sequor. (Ovid, Metamorph., vii., 21.)]

(a) Ordinarily, the intellect does not necessitate the will. The will, then, needs to be clamped
and set by habit to choose the right thing as the intellect proposes it.

(b) Intellect, or Reason, is not absolute in the human constitution. As Aristotle (Pol., I.,
v., 6) says: "The soul rules the body with a despotic command: but reason rules appetite with
a command constitutional and kingly": that is to say, as Aristotle elsewhere (Eth., I., xiii.,
15, 16) explains, passion often "fights and resists reason, opposes and contradicts": it has
therefore to be bound by ordinances and institutions to follow reason's lead: these institutions
are good habits, moral virtues, resident there where passion itself is resident, in the inferior
appetite. It is not enough that the rider is competent, but the horse too must be broken in.

(c) It is a saying, that "no mortal is always wise." There are times when reason's utterance
is faint from weariness and vexation. Then, unless a man has acquired an almost mechanical
habit of obeying reason in the conduct of his will and passions, he will in such a conjuncture
act inconsiderately and do wrong. That habit is moral virtue. Moral virtue is as the fly-wheel
of an engine, a reservoir of force to carry the machine past the "dead points" in its working.
Or again, moral virtue is as discipline to troops suddenly attacked, or hard pressed in the fight.

5. Therefore, besides the habits in the intellect that bear the name of intellectual virtues,
the virtuous man must possess other habits, as well in the will, that this power may readily
embrace what the understanding points out to be good, as in the sensitive appetite in both
its parts, concupiscible and irascible, so far forth as appetite is amenable to the control
of the will, that it may be so controlled and promptly obey the better guidance. These habits
in the will and in the sensitive appetite are called moral virtues, and to them the name of
virtue is usually confined.

Readings.--St. Thos., 1a 2a, q. 71, art. 1, in corp.; ib., q. 58, art. 2; ib., q. 58, art.
3, in corp., ad 3; ib., q. 56, art. 4, in corp., ad 1-3.

SECTION III.--Of the Difference between Virtues, Intellectual and Moral.

1. St. Thomas (1a 2a, q. 56, art. 3, in corp.) [Footnote 4] draws this difference, that an
intellectual virtue gives one a facility in doing a good act; but a moral virtue not only gives
facility, but makes one put the facility in use. Thus a habit of grammar he says, enables one
readily to speak correctly, but does not ensure that one always shall speak correctly, for
a grammarian may make solecisms on purpose: whereas a habit of justice not only makes a man
prompt and ready to do just deeds, but makes him actually do them. Not that any habit necessitates
volition. Habits do not necessitate, but they facilitate the act of the will. (s. i., nn. 1,
2, 8, pp. 64, 68.)

[Footnote 4: By doing good St. Thomas means the determination of the appetite, rational or
sensitive, to good. He says that intellectual virtue does not prompt this determination of
the appetite. Of course it does not: it prompts only the act of the power wherein it resides:
now it resides in the intellect, not in the appetite; and it prompts the act of the intellect,
which however is cot always followed by an act of appetite in accordance with it.]

2. Another distinction may be gathered from St. Thomas (1a 2a, q. 21, art. 2, ad 2), that the
special intellectual habit called art disposes a man to act correctly towards some particular
end, but a moral habit towards the common end, scope and purpose of all human life. Thus medical
skill ministers to the particular end of healing: while the moral habit of temperance serves
the general end, which is final happiness and perfection. So to give a wrong prescription through
sheer antecedent ignorance, is to fail as a doctor: but to get drunk wittingly and knowingly
is to fail as a man.

3. The grand distinction between intellectual and moral habits seems to be this, that moral
habits reside in powers which may act against the dictate of the understanding,--the error
of Socrates, noticed above (c. v., s. ii., n. 2, p. 70), lay in supposing that they could not
so act: whereas the power which is the seat of the intellectual habits, the understanding,
cannot possibly act against itself. Habits dispose the subject to elicit acts of the power
wherein they reside. Moral habits induce acts of will and sensitive appetite: intellectual
habits, acts of intellect. Will and appetite may act against what the agent knows to be best:
but intellect cannot contradict intellect. It cannot judge that to be true and beautiful which
it knows to be false and foul. If a musician strikes discords on purpose, or a grammarian makes
solecisms wilfully, he is not therein contradicting the intellectual habit within him, for
it is the office of such a habit to aid the intellect to judge correctly, and the intellect
here does correctly judge the effect produced. On the other hand, if the musician or grammarian
blunders, the intellect within him has not been contradicted, seeing that he knew no better:
the habit of grammar or music has not been violated, but has failed to cover the case. Therefore
the intellectual habit is not a safeguard to keep a man from going against his intelligent
self. No such safeguard is needed: the thing is impossible, in the region of pure intellect.
In a region where no temptation could enter, intellectual habits would suffice alone of themselves
to make a perfectly virtuous man. To avoid evil and choose good, it would be enough to know
the one and the other. But in this world seductive reasonings sway the will, and fits of passion
the sensitive appetite, prompting the one and the other to rise up and break away from what
the intellect knows all along to be the true good of man. Unless moral virtue be there to hold
these powers to their allegiance, they will frequently disobey the understanding. Such disobedience
is more irrational than any mere intellectual error. In an error purely intellectual, where
the will has no part, the objective truth indeed is missed, but the intelligence that dwells
within the man is not flouted and gain-sayed. It takes two to make a contradiction as to make
a quarrel. But an intellectual error has only one side. The intellect utters some false pronouncement,
and there is nothing within the man that says otherwise. In the moral error there is a contradiction
within, an intestine quarrel. The intellect pronounces a thing not good, not to be taken, and
the sensitive appetite will throw a veil over the face of intellect, and seize upon the thing.
That amounts to a contradiction of a man's own intelligent self.

4. It appears that, absolutely speaking, intellectual virtue is the greater perfection of a
man: indeed in the act of that virtue, as we have seen, his crowning perfection and happiness
lies. But moral virtue is the greater safeguard. The breach of moral virtue is the direr evil.
Sin is worse than ignorance, and more against reason, because it is against the doer's own
reason. Moral virtue then is more necessary than intellectual in a world where evil is rife,
as it is a more vital thing to escape grievous disease than to attain the highest development
of strength and beauty. And as disease spoils strength and beauty, not indeed always taking
them away, but rendering them valueless, so evil moral habits subvert intellectual virtue,
and turn it aside in a wrong direction. The vicious will keeps the intellect from contemplating
the objects which are the best good of man: so the contemplation is thrown away on inferior
things, often on base things, and an overgrowth of folly ensues on those points whereupon it
most imports a man to be wise.

To sum up all in a sentence, not exclusive but dealing with characteristics: the moral virtues
are the virtues for this world, intellectual virtue is the virtue of the life to come.

Readings.--St. Thos., 1a 2a, q. 58, art. 2, in corp.; Ar., Eth., I., xiii., 15-19; St. Thos.,
1a 2a, q. 66, art. 3.

SECTION IV.--Of the Mean in Moral Virtue.

1. Moral virtue is a habit of doing the right thing in the conduct of the will and the government
of the passions. Doing right is opposed to overdoing the thing, and to underdoing it. Doing
right is taking what it suits a rational nature to desire, and eschewing what is unsuitable
under the circumstances. (c. i., n. 5.)

But a thing may be unsuitable in two ways, by excess, and by defect: the rational choice is
in the mean between these two. The moral order here is illustrated from the physical. Too much
exercise and too little alike impair the strength; so of meat and drink in regard to health;
but diet and exercise in moderation, and in proportion to the subject, create, increase, and
preserve both health and strength. So it is with temperance, and fortitude, and all varieties
of moral virtue. He who fights shy of everything, and never stands his ground, becomes a coward;
while he who never fears at all, but walks boldly up to all danger, turns out rash. The enjoyer
of every pleasure, who knows not what it is to deny himself aught, is a libertine and loose
liver; while to throw over all the graces and delicious things of life, not as St. Paul did,
who counted all things dross, that he might gain Christ, but absolutely, as though such things
were of themselves devoid of attraction, is boorishness and insensibility. Thus the virtues
of temperance and fortitude perish in excess and defect, and live in the mean. It is to be
noticed in this illustration that the mean of health is not necessarily the mean of virtue.
What is too little food, and too much exercise, for the animal well-being of a man, may be
the right amount of both for him in some higher relation, inasmuch as he is more than a mere
animal; as for a soldier in a hard campaign, where a sufficiency of food and rest is incompatible
with his serving his country's need.

2. The taking of means to an end implies the taking them in moderation, not in excess, or we
shall overshoot the mark, nor again so feebly and inadequately as to fall short of it. No mere
instrument admits of an unlimited use; but the end to be gained fixes limits to the use of
the instrument, thus far, no more, and no less. Wherever then reason requires an end to be
gained, it requires a use of means proportionate to the end, not coming short of it, nor going
so far beyond as to defeat the purpose in view. The variety of good that is called the Useful
lies within definite limits, between two wildernesses, so to speak, stretching out undefined
into the distance, wilderness of Excess on the one side, and wilderness of Defect on the other.

3. A true work of art cannot be added to or taken from without spoiling it. A perfect church
would be spoiled by a lengthening of the chancel or raising the tower, albeit there are buildings,
secular and ecclesiastical, that might be drawn out two miles long and not look any worse.
The colouring of a picture must not be too violent and positive; but artistic colouring must
be chaste, and artistic utterance gentle, and artistic action calm and indicative of self-command.
Not that voice and action should not be impassioned for a great emergency, but the very passion
should bear the mark of control: in the great master's phrase, you must not "tear a passion
to tatters." It is by moderation sitting upon power that works of art truly masculine and mighty
are produced; and by this sign they are marked off from the lower host of things, gorgeous
and redundant, and still more from the order of "the loose, the lawless, the exaggerated, the
insolent, and the profane."

4. On these considerations Aristotle framed his celebrated definition of moral virtue: the
habit of fixing the choice in the golden mean in relation to ourselves, defined by reason,
as a prudent man would define it. All virtue is a habit, as we have seen--a habit of doing
that which is the proper act of the power wherein the habit resides. One class of moral virtues
is resident in the will, the act of which power is properly called choice. The rest of the
moral virtues reside in the sensitive appetite, which also may be said to choose that object
on which it fastens. Thus moral virtue is a habit of fixing the choice. The golden mean between
two extremes of excess and defect respectively has been already explained, and may be further
shown by a review of the virtues. Besides fortitude and temperance, already described, liberality
is a mean between prodigality and stinginess; magnificence between vulgar display and pettiness:
magnanimity between vainglory and pusillanimity; truthfulness between exaggeration and dissimulation;
friendship between complaisance, or flattery, and frowardness,--and so of the rest. The golden
mean must be taken in relation to ourselves, because in many matters of behaviour and the management
of the passions the right amount for one person would be excessive for another, according to
varieties of age, sex, station, and disposition. Thus anger that might become a layman might
be unbefitting in a churchman; and a man might be thought loquacious if he talked as much as
a discreet matron. [Footnote 5] The golden mean, then, must be defined by reason according
to the particular circumstances of each case. But as Reason herself is to seek where she is
not guided by Prudence, the mean of virtue must be defined, not by the reason of the buffoon
Pantolabus, or of Nomentanus the spendthrift, but as a prudent man would define it, given an
insight into the case.

[Footnote 5: Ar., Pol., III., iv., 17, says just the converse, which marks the altered position
of woman in modern society.]

5. The "golden mean," as Horace named it (Od., ii., 10), obtains principally, if not solely,
in living things, and in what appertains to living things, and in objects of art. A lake, as
such, has no natural dimensions: it may be ten miles long, it may be a hundred; but an elephant
or an oak-tree cannot go beyond a certain growth. There is a vast range between the temperature
of a blast-furnace and the temperature of the ice-pack on the Polar Sea, but very limited is
the range possible in the blood of a living man. Viewed artistically, a hill may be too low,
or a lake want width, for man's eye to rest upon it with perfect satisfaction. The golden mean,
then, is an artistic conception, and what I may call an anthropological conception: it suits
man, and is required by man, though Nature may spurn and over-ride it. The earthquake, the
hurricane, and the angry ocean are not in the golden mean, not at least from a human point
of view. If man chooses to personify and body forth the powers of nature, he creates some monstrous
uncouth figure, like the Assyrian and Egyptian idols; but if man makes a study of man, and
brings genius and patient elaboration to bear on his work, there emerges the symmetry and perfect
proportion of the Greek statue. No people ever made so much of the beauty of the human form
as the ancient Greeks: they made it the object of a passion that marked their religion, their
institutions, their literature, and their art. Their virtues and their vices turned upon it.
Hence the golden mean is eminently a Greek conception, a leading idea of the Hellenic race.
The Greek hated a thing overdone, a gaudy ornament, a proud title, a fulsome compliment, a
high-flown speech, a wordy peroration. Nothing too much was the inscription over the lintel
of the national sanctuary at Delphi. It is the surpassing grace of Greek art of the best period,
that in it there shines out the highest power, with nothing too much of straining after effect.
The study of Greek literary models operates as a corrective to redundancy, and to what ill-conditioned
minds take to be fine writing. The Greek artist knew just how far to go, and when to stop.
That point he called, in his own unsurpassed tongue, the [Greek: kairos]. "The right measure
(kairos) is at the head of all," says Pindar. "Booby, not to have understood by how much the
half is more than the whole," is the quaint cry of Hesiod. Aeschylus puts these verses in the
mouth of his Furies;

  The golden mean is God's delight:
  Extremes are hateful in His sight.
  Hold by the mean, and glorify
  Nor anarchy nor slavery.

Characteristic of Socrates was his irony, or way of understating himself, in protest against
the extravagant professions of the Sophists. In the reckoning of the Pythagoreans, the Infinite,
the Unlimited, or Unchecked, was marked as evil, in opposition to good, which was the Limited.
From thence, Plato, taking up his parable, writes: "The goddess of the Limit, my fair Philebus,
seeing insolence and all manner of wickedness breaking loose from all limit in point of gratification
and gluttonous greed, established a law and order of limited being; and you say this restraint
was the death of pleasure; I say it was the saving of it." Going upon the tradition of his
countrymen, upon their art and philosophy, their poetry, eloquence, politics, and inmost sentiment,
Aristotle formulated the law of moral virtue, to hold by the golden mean, as discerned by the
prudent in view of the present circumstances, between the two extremes of excess and defect.

6. There is only one object on which man may throw himself without reserve, his last end, the
adequate object of his happiness, God. God is approached by faith, hope, and charity; but it
belongs not to philosophy to speak of these supernatural virtues. There remains to the philosopher
the natural virtue of religion, which is a part of justice. Religion has to do with the inward
act of veneration and with its outward expression. To the latter the rule of the mean at once
applies. Moderation in religion is necessary, so far as externals are concerned. Not that any
outward assiduity, pomp, splendour, or costliness, can be too much in itself, or anything like
enough, to worship God with, but it may be too much for our limited means, which in this world
are drawn on by other calls. But our inward veneration for God and desire to do Him honour,
can never be too intense: "Blessing the Lord, exalt Him as much as you can: for He is above
all praise." (Ecclus. xliii. 33.)

7. The rule of the mean, then, is a human rule, for dealing with men, and with human goods
considered as means. It is a Greek rule: for the Greeks were of all nations the fondest admirers
of man and the things of man. But when we ascend to God, we are out among the immensities and
eternities. The vastness of creation, the infinity of the Creator,--there is no mode or measure
there. In those heights the Hebrew Psalmist loved to soar. Christianity, with its central dogma
of the Incarnation, is the meeting of Hebrew and Greek. That mystery clothes the Lord God of
hosts with the measured beauty, grace, and truth, that man can enter into. But enough of this.
Enough to show that the Aristotelian doctrine of the mean is a highly suggestive and wide-reaching
doctrine beyond the sphere of Morals. It throws out one great branch into Art, another into
Theology.

8. The vicious extremes, on this side and on that of a virtue, are not always conterminous
with the virtue itself, but sometimes another and more excellent virtue intervenes; as in giving
we may pass from justice to liberality, and only through passing the bounds of liberality,
do we arrive at the vicious extreme of prodigality. So penitential fasting intervenes between
temperance in food and undue neglect of sustenance. But it is to be noted that the central
virtue, so to speak, as justice, sobriety, chastity, is for all persons on all occasions: the
more excellent side-virtue, as liberality, or total abstinence, is for special occasions and
special classes of persons.

Readings.--Ar., Eth., II., ii., 6, 7; ib., II., cc. 6-9; Hor., Odes, II., 10; Ruskin, Modern
Painters, p. 3, s. i., c. x.

SECTION V.--Of Cardinal Virtues.

1. The enumeration of cardinal virtues is a piece of Greek philosophy that has found its ways
into the catechism. Prudence, justice, fortitude, and temperance are mentioned by Plato as
recognised heads of virtue. They are recognised, though less clearly, by Xenophon, reporting
the conversations of Socrates. It does not look as though Socrates invented the division: he
seems to have received it from an earlier source, possibly Pythagoras. They are mentioned in
Holy Scripture (Wisdom viii., 7, which is however a Greek book), and Proverbs viii., 14. They
make no figure in the philosophies of India and China.

2. The cardinal virtues are thus made out.--Virtue is a habit that gives a man readiness in
behaving according to the reason that is in him. Such a habit may be fourfold. (a) It may reside
in the reason, or intellect itself, enabling it readily to discern the reasonable thing to
do, according to particular circumstances as they occur. That habit is the virtue of prudence.
(b) It may reside in the rational appetite, otherwise called the will, disposing a man to act
fairly and reasonably in his dealings with other men. That is justice. (c) It may reside in
the irrational, or sensitive, appetite, and that to a twofold purpose; (a) to restrain the
said appetite in its concupiscible part from a wanton and immoderate eagerness after pleasure;
that is temperance: (b) to incite the said appetite in its irascible part not to shrink from
danger, where there is reason for going on in spite of danger; that is fortitude.

3. Plato compares the rational soul in man to a charioteer, driving two horses: one horse representing
the concupiscible, the other the irascible part of the sensitive appetite. He draws a vivid
picture of the resistance of the concupiscible part against reason, how madly it rushes after
lawless pleasure, and how it is only kept in restraint by main force again and again applied,
till gradually it grows submissive. This submissiveness, gradually acquired, is the virtue
of temperance. Clearly the habit dwells in the appetite, not in reason: in the horse, not in
the charioteer. It is that habitual state, which in a horse we call being broken in.

The concupiscible appetite is broken in to reason by temperance residing within it. Plato lavishes
all evil names on the steed that represents the concupiscible part. But the irascible part,
the other steed, has its own fault, and that fault twofold, sometimes of over-venturesomeness,
sometimes of shying and turning tail. The habit engendered, in the irascible part, of being
neither over-venturesome nor over-timorous, but going by reason, is termed fortitude. [Footnote 6]

[Footnote 6: It will help an Englishman to understand Plato's comparison, if instead of concupiscible
part and irascible part, we call the one steed Passion and the other Pluck. Pluck fails, and
Passion runs to excess, till Pluck is formed to fortitude, and Passion to temperance.]

4. As the will is the rational appetite, the proper object of which is rational good, it does
not need to be prompted by any habit to embrace rational good in what concerns only the inward
administration of the agent's own self. There is no difficulty in that department, provided
the sensitive appetite be kept in hand by fortitude and temperance. But where there is question
of external relations with other men, it is not enough that the sensitive appetite be regulated,
but a third virtue is necessary, the habit of justice, to be planted in the will, which would
otherwise be too weak to attend steadily to points, not of the agent's own good merely, but
of the good of other men.

5. Thus we have the four cardinal virtues: prudence, a habit of the intellect; temperance,
a habit of the concupiscible appetite; fortitude, a habit of the irascible appetite; and justice,
a habit of the will. Temperance and Fortitude in the Home Department; Justice for Foreign Affairs;
with Prudence for Premier. Or, to use another comparison, borrowed from Plato, prudence is
the health of the soul, temperance its beauty, fortitude its strength, and justice its wealth.

Readings.--St. Thos., 1a 2a, q. 61, art. 6, in corp., ad 1, 3; ib., q. 59, art. 4, in corp.,
ad 2; Plato, Laws, 631 B, C.

SECTION VI.--Of Prudence.

1. Prudence is right reason applied to practice, or more fully it may be defined, the habit
of intellectual discernment that enables one to hit upon the golden mean of moral virtue and
the way to secure that mean. Thus prudence tells one what amount of punishment is proper for
a particular delinquent, and how to secure his getting it. It is to be observed that prudence
does not will the golden mean in question, but simply indicates it. To will and desire the
mean is the work of the moral virtue concerned therewith: as in the case given it is the work
of vindictive justice.

2. From the definition of moral virtue above given (c. v., s. iv., n. 4, p. 79), it is clear
that no moral virtue can come into act without prudence: for it is the judgment of the prudent
man that must define in each case the golden mean in relation to ourselves, which every moral
virtue aims at. Thus, without prudence, fortitude passes into rashness, vindictive justice
into harshness, clemency into weakness, religion into superstition.

3. But may not one with no prudence to guide him hit upon the golden mean by some happy impulse,
and thus do an act of virtue? We answer, he may do a good act, and if you will, a virtuous
act, but not an act of virtue, not an act proceeding from a pre-existent habit in the doer.
The act is like a good stroke made by chance, not by skill; and like such a stroke, it cannot
be readily repeated at the agent's pleasure. (See c. v., s. i., n. 4, p. 66; and Ar., Eth.,
II., iv., 2.)

4. Prudence in its essence is an intellectual virtue, being a habit resident in the understanding:
but it deals with the subject-matter of the moral virtues, pointing out the measure of temperance,
the bounds of fortitude, or the path of justice. It is the habit of intellectual discernment
that must enlighten every moral virtue in its action. There is no virtue that goes blundering
and stumbling in the dark.

5. He is a prudent man, that can give counsel to others and to himself in order to the attainment
of ends that are worthy of human endeavour. If unworthy ends are intended, however sagaciously
they are pursued, that is not prudence. We may call it sagacity, or shrewdness, being a habit
of ready discernment and application of means to ends. Napoleon I. was conspicuous for this
sagacity. It is the key to success in this world. But prudence discovers worthy ends only,
and to them only does it provide means. The intellect is often blinded by passion, by desire
and by fear, so as not to discern the proper end and term to make for in a particular instance
and a practical case. The general rules of conduct remain in the mind, as that, "In anger be
mindful of mercy:" but the propriety of mercy under the present provocation drops out of sight.
The intellect does not discern the golden mean of justice and mercy in relation to the circumstances
in which the agent now finds himself. In other words, the habit of prudence has failed; and
it has failed because of the excess of passion. Thus prudence is dependent on the presence
of the virtues that restrain passion, namely, fortitude and temperance. A like argument would
hold for the virtue of justice, that rectifies inordinate action in dealing with another. The
conclusion is, that as the moral virtues cannot exist without prudence, so neither can prudence
exist without them: for vice corrupts the judgment of prudence.

6. Hence we arrive at a settlement of the question, whether the virtues can be separated, or
whether to possess one is to possess all. We must distinguish between the rudimentary forms
of virtue and the perfect habit. The rudimentary forms certainly can exist separate: they are
a matter of temperament and inherited constitution: and the man whom nature has kindly predisposed
to benevolence, she has perhaps very imperfectly prepared for prudence, fortitude, or sobriety.
But one perfect habit of any one of the four cardinal virtues, acquired by repeated acts, and
available at the call of reason, involves the presence, in a matured state, of the other three
habits also. A man who acts irrationally upon one ground, will behave irrationally on other
grounds also: or if his conduct be rational there, it will not be from regard for reason, but
from impulse, temperament, or from some other motive than the proper motive of the virtue which
he seems to be exercising.

Readings.--St. Thos., 1a 2a, q. 54, art. 4; ib., q. 58, art. 5, in corp.; ib., 2a 2a, q. 47,
art. 7, 12, 13; Ar., Eth., VI., v.; ib., VI., xii., 9, 10; ib., VI., xiii., 6; St. Francis
of Sales, Of the Love of God, bk. xi., c. vii.

SECTION VII.--Of Temperance.

1. Temperance is a virtue which regulates by the judgment of reason those desires and delights
which attend upon the operations whereby human nature is preserved in the individual and propagated
in the species. Temperance is the virtue contrary to the two deadly sins of Gluttony and Lust.
As against the former, it represents Abstinence, or moderation in solid food, and Sobriety,
which is moderation in drink. As against the latter, it is the great virtue of Chastity. The
student must bear in mind that, to a philosopher, Temperance does not mean Total Abstinence,
and Abstinence is quite independent of Fridays and flesh-meat. Temperance then is made up of
Abstinence, Sobriety, and Chastity.

Aristotle writes: "Cases of falling short in the taking of pleasure, and of people enjoying
themselves less than they ought, are not apt to occur: for such insensibility is not human:
but if there be any one to whom nothing is pleasant, and all comes alike in the matter of taste,
he must be far from the state and condition of humanity: such a being has no name, because
he is nowhere met with." This is true, because where there is question of a virtue, such as
Temperance, resident in the concupiscible appetite, we are not concerned with any sullenness
or moroseness of will, nor with any scrupulosity or imbecility of judgment, refusing to gratify
the reasonable cravings of appetite, but with the habitual leaning and lie of the appetite
itself. Now the concupiscible appetite in every man, of its own nature, leans to its proper
object of delectable good. No virtue is requisite to secure it from too little inclination
that way: but to restrain the appetite from going out excessively to delight is the function,
and the sole function, of Temperance. The measure of restraint is relative, as the golden mean
is relative, and varies with different persons and in view of different ends. The training
of the athlete is not the training of the saint.

3. Besides the primary virtue of Temperance, and its subordinate species (enumerated above,
n. 1), certain other virtues are brought under Temperance in a secondary sense, as observing
in easier matters that moderation and self-restraint which the primary virtue keeps in the
matter that is most difficult of all. St. Thomas calls these potential parts of Temperance.
There is question here of what is most difficult to man as an animal, not of what is most difficult
to him as a rational being. To rational man, as such, ambition is harder to restrain than sensuality:
which is proved by the fact that fewer men, who have any ambition in them, do restrain that
passion than those who restrain the animal propensities that are common to all. But to man
as an animal (and vast numbers of the human race rise little above the animal state), it is
hardest of all things to restrain those appetites that go with the maintenance and propagation
of flesh and blood. These then are the proper matter of Temperance: other virtues, potential
parts of Temperance, restrain other cravings which are less animal. Of these virtues the most
noticeable are humility, meekness, and modesty. [Footnote 7]

[Footnote 7: This is St. Thomas's arrangement, placing Humility under Temperance. The connection
of Humility with Magnanimity, and thereby with Fortitude, is indicated pp. 100, 101.]

4. There is a thirst after honour and preeminence, arising from self-esteem, and prevalent
especially where there is little thought of God, and scant reverence for the present majesty
of heaven. A man who thinks little of his Maker is great in his own eyes, as our green English
hills are mountains to one who has not seen the Alpine heights and snows. Apart from the consideration
of God there is no humility; and this is why Aristotle, who treats of virtues as they minister
to the dealings of man with man, makes no mention of this virtue. There are certain outward
manifestations in words, acts, and gestures, the demeanour of a humble man, which is largely
identified with modesty and with submission to others as representing God.

5. Modesty is that outward comportment, style of dress, conversation, and carriage, which indicates
the presence of Temperance, "set up on holy pedestal" (Plato, Phaedr., 254 B) in the heart within.

6. Meekness is moderation in anger, and is or should be the virtue of all men. Clemency is
moderation in punishment, and is the virtue of men in office, who bear the sword or the rod.

7. As regards the vices opposite to Temperance, an important distinction is to be drawn between
him who sins by outburst of passion and him whose very principles are corrupt. [Footnote 8]
The former in doing evil acknowledges it to be evil, and is prone to repent of it afterwards:
the latter has lost his belief in virtue, and his admiration for it: he drinks in iniquity
like water, with no after-qualms; he glories in his shame. The former is reclaimable, the latter
is reprobate: his intellect as well as his heart is vitiated and gone bad. If there were no
miracles, he would be a lost man: but God can work miracles in the moral as in the physical
order: in that there is hope for him.

[Footnote 8: See the note in Aquinas Ethicus, Vol. I., pp. 170, 171.]

8. A nation need not be virtuous in the great bulk of her citizens, to be great in war and
in dominion, in laws, in arts, and in literature: but the bulk of the people must possess at
least the sense and appreciation of virtue in order to such national greatness. When that sense
is lost, the nation is undone and become impotent, for art no less than for empire. Thus the
Greece of Pericles and of Phidias fell, to be "living Greece no more."

9. As in other moral matters, no hard and fast line of division exists between sinning from
passion and sinning on principle, but cases of the one shade into cases of the others, and
by frequent indulgence of passion principle is brought gradually to decay.

Readings.--Ar., Eth., III., x.; St. Thos., 2a 2a, q. 141, art. 2; ib., q. 141, art. 3, in corp.;
ib., q. 142, art. 1; ib., q. 143, art. 1, in corp., ad 2, 3; ib., q. 161, art. 1, ad 5; ib.,
q. 161, art. 2, in corp.; ib., q. 161, art. 6, in corp., ad 1; ib., q. 157, art. 1, in corp.,
ad 3; ib, q. 156, art. 3; Ar., Eth., VII., viii.

SECTION VIII.--Of Fortitude.

1. As Temperance is a curb, restraining animal nature in the pursuit of the good to which it
goes out most eagerly, namely, life and the means of its continuance, so Fortitude also is
a curb, withholding that nature from irrational flight from the evil which it most dreads.
Aristotle tells us what that evil is: "Most dreadful of all things is death, for it is the
limit, and for the dead man there appears to be no further good nor evil left." (Eth., III,
vi., b.) Death is truly the limit to human existence: for, though the soul be immortal, the
being of flesh and blood, that we call man, is dissolved in death, and, apart from supernatural
hope of the resurrection, extinct for ever. Death therefore is the direst of all evils in the
animal economy; and as such, is supremely abhorred by the sensitive appetite, which is the
animal part of man. Fortitude moderates this abhorrence and fear by the dictate of reason.
Reason shows that there are better things than life, and things worse than death, for man in
his spiritual capacity as an intellectual and immortal being.

2. Fortitude is a mean between Cowardice and Rashness, to which opposite extremes we are carried
by the contrary passions of Fear and Daring respectively. Fortitude thus is a two-sided virtue,
moderating two opposite tendencies: while Temperance is one-sided, moderating Desire alone.
Life, rationally considered, bears undoubtedly a high value, and is not to be lightly thrown
away, or risked upon trivial or ignoble objects. The brave man is circumspect in his ventures,
and moderate in his fears, which implies that he does fear somewhat. He will fear superhuman
visitations, as the judgments of God. He will dread disgrace, and still more, sin. He will
fear death in an unworthy cause. And even in a good cause, it has well been said: "The truly
brave man is not he who fears no danger, but the man whose mind subdues the fear, and braves
the danger that nature shrinks from." The Duke of Marlborough is said to have quaked in the
saddle as he rode into action, saying: "This poor body trembles at what the mind within is
about to do." Fortitude then is the virtue that restrains fear and regulates venturesomeness
by the judgment of reason, in danger especially of a grand and glorious death.

3. To the ancients, there was no grander object of devotion than the State, their native city:
no direr misfortune than its dissolution, or the loss of its self-government: no nobler death
than to die in arms in its defence. As old Tyrtaus sang:

  A noble thing it is to lie dead, fallen in the front ranks,
  A brave man in battle for his country. [Footnote 9]

[Footnote 9:
  [Greek: tethnamenai gar kalon, eni promachoisi pesonta,
  andr' agathon peri hae patridi marnamenon.]
([Greek: Tyrtaeus apud Lycurg])]

Such a death was taken to be the seal and stamp of the highest fortitude. Nor has Christianity
dimmed the glory that invests a soldier's death. Only it points to a brighter glory, and a
death in a still nobler cause, the death of the martyr who dies for the faith, and becomes
valiant in battle for what is more to him than any earthly city, the Church, the City of God.
Nor must the martyr of charity, who dies in succouring his neighbour, go without the praise
of fortitude: nor, in short, any one who braves death, or other heavy affliction, in the discharge
of duty, or when forwarding a good cause.

4. A man may brave death in a good cause, and not be doing an act of fortitude. So he may subscribe
a large sum to a charitable purpose without any exercise of the virtue of charity. A virtue
is then only exercised, when its outward act is performed from the proper motive of the virtue,
and not from any lower motive. Thus the proper motive of Fortitude is the conviction that death
is an evil, the risk of which is to be left out of count as a circumstance relatively inconsiderable,
when there is question of the defence of certain interests dearer to a good man than life.
An improper motive would be anger, which, however useful as an accessory, by itself is not
an intellectual motive at all, and therefore no motive of virtue. The recklessness of an angry
man is not Fortitude. It is not Fortitude to be brave from ignorance or stupidity, not appreciating
the danger: nor again from experience, knowing that the apparent danger is not real, at least
to yourself. The brave man looks a real danger in the face, and knows it, and goes on in spite
of it, because so it is meet and just, with the cause that he has, to go on.

5. We may notice as potential parts of Fortitude (s. vii., n. 3, p. 92), the three virtues
of Magnificence, Magnanimity, and Patience. It is the part of Patience, philosophically to
endure all sufferings short of death. It is the part of the former two, to dare wisely, not
in a matter of life and death, but in the matter of expense, for Magnificence, and of honour,
for Magnanimity. Magnificence, technically understood, observes the right measure in the expenditure
of large sums of money. As being conversant with large sums, it differs from Liberality. A
poor man may be liberal out of his little store, but never magnificent. It is a virtue in the
rich, not to be afraid of spending largely and lavishly on a great occasion, or a grand purpose.
The expense may be carried beyond what the occasion warrants: that is one vicious extreme.
The other extreme would be to mar a costly work by sordid parsimony on a point of detail. It
is not easy to be magnificent: in the first place, because not many are rich; and then because
riches are seldom united with greatness of soul and good judgment. Something analogous to the
virtue of Magnificence is shown in the generous use of great abilities, or, in the supernatural
order, of great graces. The destinies of the world lie with those men who have it in their
power to be magnificent.

6. We are come to Magnanimity and the Magnanimous Man, the great creation of Aristotle. As
Magnanimity ranks under Fortitude, there must be some fear to which the Magnanimous Man rises
superior, as the brave man rises superior to the fear of death. What Magnanimity overcomes
is the fear of undeserved dishonour. The Magnanimous Man is he who rates himself as worthy
of great honours, and is so worthy indeed. When honour is paid to such a one, he makes no great
account of it, feeling that it is but his due, or even less than his due. If he is dishonoured
and insulted, he despises the insult as an absurdity, offered to a man of his deserts. He is
too conscious of his real worth to be much affected by the expression of his neighbour's view
of him. For a man is most elated, when complimented on an excellence which he was not very
sure of possessing: and most sensibly grieved at an insult, where he half suspects himself
of really making a poor figure, whereas he would like to make a good one. It is doubtless the
serene and settled conviction that Englishmen generally entertain of the greatness of their
country, that enables them to listen with equanimity to abase of England, such as no other
people in Europe would endure levelled at themselves.

7. Proud is an epithet pretty freely applied to Englishmen abroad, and it seems to fit the
character of the Magnanimous Man. He seems a Pharisee, and worse than a Pharisee. The Pharisee's
pride was to some extent mitigated by breaking out into that disease of children and silly
persons, vanity: he "did all his works to be seen of men." But here the disease is all driven
inwards, and therefore more malignant. The Magnanimous Man is so much in conceit with himself
as to have become a scorner of his fellows. He is self-sufficient, a deity to himself, the
very type of Satanic pride. These are the charges brought against him.

8. To purify and rectify the character of the Magnanimous Man, we need to take a leaf out of
the book of Christianity. Not that there is anything essentially Christian and supernatural
in what we are about to allege: otherwise it would not belong to philosophy: it is a truth
of reason, but a truth generally overlooked, till it found its exponent in the Christian preacher,
and its development in the articles of the Christian faith. The truth is this. There is in
every human being what theologians have called man and man: man as he is of himself, man again
as he is by the gift and gracious mercy of God. The reasonably Magnanimous Man is saved from
pride by this distinction. Of himself, he knows that he is nothing but nothingness, meanness,
sinfulness, and a walking sore of multitudinous actual sins. "I know that there dwelleth not
in me, that is, in my flesh, any good." (Rom. vii. 18.) If he is insulted, he takes it as his
due, not any questionable due, for then he would resent the insult, but as being undoubtedly
what he deserves. If he is honoured, he smiles at the absurdity of the compliments paid to
him. It is as if an old gentleman, a prey to gout and rheumatism, were lauded for his fleetness
of foot. He is then truly magnanimous on this side of his character by a kind of obverse magnanimity,
that bears insults handsomely, as deserved, and honours modestly, as undeserved.

9. But let us go round to the other side of the reasonably Magnanimous Man. He was defined
to be, "one that deems himself worthy of great honours, and is so worthy indeed." Now, nothing
is truly worthy of honour but virtue. He must then be a good man, full of all virtues; and
all this goodness that he has, he recognises as being in him of God. He has "received God's
Spirit"--or something analogous in the natural order to the gift of the Holy Ghost--"that he
may know the things that are given him of God." (2 Cor. ii. 12.) It is told of St. Francis
of Assisi, the humblest of men, that on one occasion when he and his companions received from
some persons extraordinary marks of veneration, he, contrary to his usual wont, took it not
at all amiss: and said to his companions, who wondered at his behaviour, "Let them alone: they
cannot too much honour the work of God in us." This magnanimity bears honours gracefully, and
insult unflinchingly, from a consciousness of internal worth, which internal worth and goodness
however it takes not for its own native excellence, but holds as received from God, and unto
God it refers all the glory.

10. Thus the genuine Magnanimous Man is a paradox and a prodigy. He despises an insult as undeserved,
and he takes it as his due. He is conscious of the vast good that is in him; and he knows that
there is no good in him. Highly honoured, he thinks that he gets but his due, while he believes
that vials of scorn and ignominy may justly be poured upon him. He will bear the scorn, because
he deserves it, and again, because it is wholly undeserved. The Magnanimous Man is the humble
man. The secret of his marvellous virtue is his habit of practical discernment between the
abyss of misery that he has within himself, as of himself, and the high gifts, also within
him, which come of the mercy of God. Aristotle well says, "Magnanimity is a sort of robe of
honour to the rest of the virtues: it both makes them greater and stands not without them:
therefore it is hard to be truly magnanimous, for that cannot be without perfect virtue." We
may add, that in the present order of Providence none can be magnanimous without supernatural
aid, and supernatural considerations of the life of Christ, which however are not in place here.

Readings.--Ar., Eth., III., vii.; St. Thos., 2a 2a, q. 123, art 3, in corp.; Ar., Eth., III.,
viii.; St. Thos., 2a 2a, q. 123, art. i, ad 2; Ar., Eth., III., vi.; St. Thos., 2a 2a, q. 123,
art. 4, 5. For the Magnificent and Magnanimous Man, Ar., Eth., IV., ii., iii.; St. Thos., 2a
2a, q. 129, art. 3, ad 4, 5.

SECTION IX.--Of Justice.

1. Justice is a habit residing in the will, prompting that power constantly to render unto
everyone his own. The fundamental notion of Justice is some sort of equality. Equality supposes
two terms, physically distinct, or capable of existing separately, one from the other. Between
such terms alone can equality be properly predicated. Any less distinction than this leaves
room only for equality improperly so called, and therefore no room for what is properly termed
Justice. When therefore Plato, going about to find a definition of Justice, which is a main
object in his Republic, acquiesces in this position, that Justice consists in every part of
the soul, rational, irascible, and concupiscible, fulfilling its own proper function, and not
taking up the function of another, he fails for this reason, that all Justice is relative to
another, but the different parts of one soul are not properly other and other, since all go
to make up one man: therefore, however much Justice may be identical with doing your own business,
and leaving your neighbour free to do his, yet this relation obtaining among the various parts
of the soul cannot properly be called Justice. What Plato defines is the beauty, good order,
and moral comeliness of the soul, but not Justice in any sense, inasmuch as it is not referred
to any being human or divine, collective or individual, outside of the man himself.

2. Going upon the principle that all Justice is of the nature of equality, and is therefore
relative to another, we arrive at the definition of general justice, which is all virtue whatsoever,
inasmuch as it bears upon another person than him who practises it. This Justice is perfect
social virtue, the crown and perfection of all virtue from a statesman's point of view; and
in that aspect, as Aristotle says, "neither morning star nor evening star is so beautiful."
Whoever has this virtue behaves well, not by himself merely, but towards others--a great addition.
Many a one who has done well enough as an individual, has done badly in a public capacity:
whence the proverb, that office shows the man. This Justice may well be called another man's
good: though not in the sense of the sophists of old, and the altruists of our time, that virtue
is a very good thing for everyone else than its possessor. Virtue, like health, may be beneficial
to neighbours, but the first benefit of it flows in upon the soul to whom it belongs: for virtue
is the health of the soul.

3. Another elementary notion of Justice connects it with Law, taking Justice to be conformity
to Law. This notion exhibits legal justice, which is the same thing, under another aspect,
as the general justice mentioned above, inasmuch as general justice includes the exercise of
all virtues in so far as they bear upon the good of others: and the law, to which legal justice
conforms a man, enjoins acts of all virtues for the common good. It must be observed, however,
that though there is no natural virtue of which the law of man may not prescribe some exercise,
still no human law enjoins all acts of all virtues, not even all obligatory acts. A man may
fail in his duty though he has kept all the laws of man. In order then that legal justice may
include the whole duty of man, it must be referred to that natural and eternal law of God,
revealed or unrevealed, of which we shall speak hereafter. By being conformed to this divine
law a man is a just man, a righteous man. It is this sense of Justice that appears in the theological
term, justification. In this sense, Zachary and Elizabeth "were both just before God, walking
in all the commandments of the Lord without blame." (St. Luke i. 6.)

4. General, or legal, justice is not the cardinal virtue so called, but is in one point of
view identical with all virtue. Distinguished from the other three cardinal virtues is particular
justice, which is divided into distributive and commutative justice. Distributive justice is
exercised by the community through its head towards its individual members, so that there be
a fair distribution of the common goods, in varying amount and manner, according to the various
merits and deserts of the several recipients. The matters distributed are public emoluments
and honours, public burdens, rewards, and also punishments. Distributive justice is the virtue
of the king and of the statesman, of the commander-in-chief, of the judge, and of the public
functionary generally. It is violated by favouritism, partiality, and jobbery. Distributive
justice is the Justice that we adore in the great Governor of the Universe, saying that He
is "just in all His works," even though we understand them not. When it takes the form of punishing,
it is called vindictive justice. This is what the multitudes clamoured for, that filled the
precincts of the Palace of Whitehall in the days of Charles I. with cries of Justice, Justice,
for the head of Strafford.

5. Neither legal nor distributive justice fully answers to the definition of that virtue. Justice
disposes us to give to another his own. The party towards whom Justice is practised must be
wholly other and different from him who practises it. But it is clear that the member of a
civil community is not wholly other and different from the State: he is partially identified
with the civil community to which he belongs. Therefore neither the tribute of legal justice
paid by the individual to the State, nor the grant of distributive justice from the State to
the individual, is an exercise of Justice in the strictest sense. Again, what the individual
pays to the State because he is legally bound to pay it, does not become the State's own until
after payment. If he withhold it, though he do wrong, yet he is not said to be keeping any
portion of the public property in his private hands: he only fails to make some of his private
property public, which the law bids him abdicate and make over. If this be true of money and
goods, it is still more evidently true of honour and services. In like manner, in the matter
of distributive justice, the emoluments which a subject has a claim to, the rewards which he
has merited of the State, does not become his till he actually gets them into his hands. It
may be unfair and immoral that they are withheld from him, and in that case, so long as the
circumstances remain the same, the obligation rest with and presses upon the State, and those
who represent it, to satisfy his claim: still the State is not keeping the individual from
that which is as yet his own. In the language of the Roman lawyers, he has at best a jus ad
rem, a right that the thing be made his, but not a jus in re; that is, the thing is not properly
his before he actually gets it.

6. Commutative justice alone is Justice strictly so called: for therein alone the parties to
the act are perfectly other and other, and the matter that passes between them, if withheld
by one of the parties, would make a case of keeping the other out of that which he could still
properly call by right his own. Commutative justice runs between two individuals, or two independent
States, or between the State and an individual inasmuch as the latter is an independent person,
having rights of his own against the former. This justice is called commutative, from being
concerned with exchanges, or contracts, voluntary and involuntary. The idea of voluntary contract,
like that between buyer and seller, is familiar enough. But the notion of an involuntary contract
is technical, and requires explanation. Whoever, then, wrongfully takes that which belongs
to another, enters into an involuntary contract, or makes an involuntary exchange, with the
party. This he may do by taking away his property, honour, reputation, liberty, or bodily ease
and comfort. This is an involuntary transaction, against the will of the party that suffers.
It is a contract, because the party that does the damage takes upon himself, whether he will
or no, by the very act of doing it, the obligation of making the damage good, and of restoring
what he has taken away. This is the obligation of restitution, which attaches to breaches of
commutative justice, and, strictly speaking, to them alone. Thus, if a minister has not promoted
a deserving officer in face of a clear obligation of distributive justice, the obligation indeed
remains as that of a duty unfulfilled, so long as he remains minister with the patronage in
his hands: but the promotion, if he finally makes it, is not an act of restitution: it is giving
to the officer that which was not his before. And if the opportunity has passed, he owes the
officer nothing in compensation. But if he has insulted the officer, he owes him an apology
for all time to come: he must give back that honour which belonged to the officer, and of which
he has robbed him. This is restitution. In a thousand practical cases it is important, and
often a very nice question to decide, whether a particular offence, such as failure to pay
taxes, be a sin against commutative justice or only against some more general form of the virtue.
If the former, restitution is due: if the latter, repentance only and purpose of better things
in future, but not reparation of the past.

7. The old notion, that Justice is minding your own business, and leaving your neighbour to
mind his, furnishes a good rough statement of the obligations of commutative justice. They
are mainly negative, to leave your neighbour alone in his right of life and limb, of liberty
and property, of honour and reputation. But in two ways your neighbour's business may become
yours in justice. The first way is, if you have any contract with him, whether a formal contract,
as that between a railway company and its passengers, or a virtual contract, by reason of some
office that you bear, as the office of a bishop and pastor in relation to the souls of his
flock. The second way in which commutative justice binds you to positive action, is when undue
damage is likely to occur to another from some activity of yours. If, passing by, I see my
neighbour's house on fire, not having contracted to watch it for him, and not having caused
the fire myself, I am not bound in strict justice to warn him of his danger. I am bound indeed
by charity, but that is not the point here. But if the fire has broken out from my careless
use of fire, commutative justice binds me to raise the alarm.

8. The most notable potential parts of Justice--Religion, Obedience, Truthfulness--enter into
the treatise of Natural Law.

Readings.--Ar., Eth., V., i.; Plato, Rep., 433 A; ib., 443 C, D, E; St. Thos., 2a 2a, q. 58,
art. 2, in corp; ib., q. 58, art. 5; ib., q. 58, art. 6, in corp; ib., q. 58, art. 7; ib.,
q. 58, art 9, in corp.; ib., q. 61, art. 1, in corp.; ib., q. 61, art. 3, in corp.; Ar., Eth.,
V., ii., 12, 13; St. Thos., 2a 2a, q. 62, art. 1, in corp., ad 2.

1. A granite boulder lying on an upland moor stands indifferently the August sun and the January
frost, flood and drought. It neither blooms in spring, nor fades in autumn. It is all one to
the boulder whether it remain in the picturesque solitude where the glacier dropped it, or
be laid in the gutter of a busy street. It has no growth nor development: it is not a subject
of evolution: there is no goal of perfection to which it is tending by dint of inward germinal
capacity seconded by favourable environment. Therefore it does not matter what you do with
it: all things come alike to that lump of rock.

2. But in a cranny or cleft of the same there is a little flower growing. You cannot do what
you will with that flower. It has its exigencies and requirements. Had it a voice, it could
say, what the stone never could: "I must have this or that: I must have light, I must have
moisture, a certain heat, some soil to grow in." There is a course to be run by this flower
and the plant that bears it, a development to be wrought out, a perfection to be achieved.
For this end certain conditions are necessary, or helpful: certain others prejudicial, or altogether
intolerable. In fact, that plant has a progressive nature, and therewith is a subject of good
and evil. Good for that plant is what favours its natural progress, and evil is all that impedes
it.

3. All organic natures are progressive: that is, each individual of them is apt to make a certain
progress, under certain conditions, from birth to maturity. But man alone has his progress
in any degree in his own hands, to make or to mar. Man alone, in the graphic phrase of Appius
Claudius, is faber fortuna sua, "the shaper of his own destiny." Any other plant or animal,
other than man, however miserable a specimen of its kind it finally prove to be, has always
done the best for itself under the circumstances: it has attained the limit fixed for it by
its primitive germinal capacity, as modified by the events of its subsequent environment. The
miserable animal that howls under your window at night, is the finest dog that could possibly
have come of his blood and breeding, nurture and education. But there is no man now on earth
that has done all for himself that he might have done. We all fall short in many things of
the perfection that is within our reach. Man therefore needs to stir himself, and to be energetic
with a free, self-determined energy to come up to the standard of humanity. It is only his
free acts that are considered by the moralist. Such is the definition of Moral Science, that
it deals with human acts; acts, that is, whereof man is master to do or not to do. (c. i.,
nn. 1, 2.)

4. We have it, then, that a morally good act is an act that makes towards the progress of human
nature in him who does it, and which is freely done. Similarly, a morally evil act is a bar
to progress, or a diversion of it from the right line, being also a free act. Now, that act
only can make for the progress of human nature, which befits and suits human nature, and suits
it in its best and most distinctive characteristic. What is best in man, what characterises
and makes man, what the old schoolmen called the form of man, is his reason. To be up to reason
is to be up to the standard of humanity. Human progress is progress on the lines of reason.
To make for that progress, and thereby to be morally good, an act must be done, not blindly,
brutishly, sottishly, or on any impulse of passion, however beneficial in its effects, but
deliberately, and in conscious accordance with the reasonable nature of the doer.

5. Whatever be man's end and highest good, he must go about to compass it reasonably. He must
plan, and be systematic, and act on principle. For instance, if the public health be the highest
good, the laws which govern it must be investigated, and their requirements carried out, without
regard to sentiment. If pleasure be the good, we must be artists of pleasure. If, however,
as has been seen (c. ii.) the highest good of man is the highest play of reason herself in
a life of contemplation, to be prepared for, though it cannot be adequately and worthily lived,
in this world, then it is through following reason, through subjecting appetite to reason by
temperance, and the will to reason by justice, and reason herself by a "reasonable service"
to God, that this end and consummation must be wrought out. Thus, in Plato's phrase (Rep.,
589 B), the moral man acts so that "the inner man within him, the rational part of his nature,
shall be strongest; while he watches with a husbandman's care over the many-headed beast of
appetite, rearing and training the creature's tame heads, and not letting the wild ones grow;
for this purpose making an ally of the lion, the irascible part of his nature, and caring for
all the parts in common, making them friends to one another and to himself." In this way he
will meet the true exigency of his nature as a whole, with due regard to the proper order and
subordination of the parts. He who lives otherwise, acts in contradiction to his rational self.
(c. v., s. iii., n. 3, p. 74).

6. The result of the above reasoning, if result it has, should be to explain and justify the
Stoic rule, naturae convenienter vivere, to live according to nature. But some one will say:
"That is the very ideal of wickedness: all good in man comes of overcoming nature, and doing
violence to natural cravings: live according to nature, and you will go straight to the devil."
I answer: "Live according to a part of your nature, and that the baser and lower, though also
the more impetuous and clamorous part, and you will certainly go where you say: but live up
to the whole of your nature, as explained in the last paragraph, and you will be a man indeed,
and will reach the goal of human happiness." But again it may be objected, that our very reason,
to which the rest of our nature is naturally subordinate, frequently prompts us to do amiss.
The objection is a just one, in so far as it goes upon a repudiation of the old Platonic position,
that all moral evil comes of the body, wherein the soul is imprisoned, and of the desires which
the body fastens upon the soul. Were that so, all sins would be sins of sensuality. But there
are spiritual sins, not prompted by any lust or weakness of the body, as pride and mutiny,
self-opinionatedness, rejection of Divine revelation. The objection turns on sins such as these.
The answer is, that spiritual sins do not arise from any exigency of reason, but from a deficiency
of reason; not from that faculty calling upon us, as we are reasonable men, to take a certain
course, in accordance with a just and full view of the facts of the case, but from reason failing
to look facts fully in the face, and considering only some of them to the neglect of others,
the consideration of which would alter the decision. Thus a certain proud creature mentioned
in Scripture thought of the magnificence of the throne above the stars of God, on the mountain
of the covenant, on the sides of the north: he did not think how such a pre-eminence would
become him as a creature. He had in view a rational good certainly, but not a rational good
for him. Partial reason, like a little knowledge, is a dangerous thing.

7. As it is not in the power of God to bring it about, that the angles of a triangle taken
together shall amount to anything else than two right angles, so it is not within the compass
of Divine omnipotence to create a man for whom it shall be a good and proper thing, and befitting
his nature, to blaspheme, to perjure himself, to abandon himself recklessly to lust, or anger,
or any other passion. God need not have created man at all, but He could not have created him
with other than human exigencies. The reason is, because God can only create upon the pattern
of His own essence, which is imitable, outside of God, in certain definite lines of possibility.
These possibilities, founded upon the Divine essence and discerned by the Divine intelligence,
are the Archetype Ideas, among which the Divine will has to choose, when it proceeds to create.
The denial of this doctrine in the Nominalist and Cartesian Schools, and their reference to
the arbitrary will of God of the eternal, immutable, and absolutely necessary relations of
possible things, is the subversion of all science and philosophy.

8. Still less are moral distinctions between good and evil to be set down to the law of the
State, or the fashion of society. Human convention can no more constitute moral good than it
can physical good, or mathematical or logical truth. It is only in cases where two or more
courses are tolerable, and one of them needs to be chosen and adhered to for the sake of social
order, that human authority steps in to elect and prescribe one of those ways of action, and
brand the others as illegitimate, which would otherwise be lawful. This is called the making
of a positive law.

Readings.--St. Thos., 1a 2a, q. 18, art. 5, in corp.; 1a 2a, q. 71, art. 2; Plato, Rep., 588
B to end of bk. ix.; Ar., Eth., IX., iv., nn. 4-10; Suarez, De Legibus, II., vi., nn. 4, 11;
Cicero, De Legibus, i., cc. 15-17.

1. The great problem of Moral Philosophy is the explanation of the idea, I ought, (c. i., n.
6). We are now come close up to the solution of that problem. The word ought denotes the necessary
bearing of means upon end. To every ought there is a pendent if. The means ought to be taken,
if the end is to be secured. Thus we say: "You ought to start betimes, if you are to catch
your train." "You ought to study harder, if you are to pass your examination." The person spoken
to might reply: "But what if I do miss my train, and fail in my examination?" He might be met
with another ought: "You ought not to miss the one, if you are to keep your appointment: or
to fail in the other, if you are to get into a profession." Thus the train of oughts and ifs
extends, until we come finally to a concatenation like the following: "You ought not to break
your word, or to give needless pain to your parents, if you don't want to do violence to that
nature which is yours as a reasonable being," or "to thwart your own moral development,"--and
so on in a variety of phrases descriptive of the argument of the last section. Here it seems
the chain is made fast to a staple in the wall. If a person goes on to ask, "Well, what if
I do contradict my rational self?" we can only tell him that he is a fool for his question.
The oughts, such as those wherewith our illustration commenced, Kant calls the hypothetical
imperative, the form being, "You must, unless:" but the ought wherein it terminated, he calls
the categorical imperative, the alternative being such as no rational man can accept, and therefore
no alternative at all.

2. This doctrine of the Categorical Imperative is correct and valuable so far as it goes. But
then it does not go far enough. The full notion of what a man ought, is what he must do under
pain of sin. Sin is more than folly, more than a breach of reason. It is mild reproach to a
great criminal to tell him that he is a very foolish person, a walking unreasonableness. If
he chooses to contradict his rational self, is not that his own affair? Is he not his own master,
and may he not play the fool if he likes? The answer is, "No, he is not his own master; he
is under law, and his folly and self-abuse becomes criminal and sinful, by being in contravention
of the law that forbids him to throw himself away thus wantonly."

3. Kant readily takes up this idea, shaping it after his own fashion. He contends,--and herein
his doctrine is not merely deficient, but positively in error,--that the Categorical Imperative,
uttered by a man's own reason, has the force of a law, made by that same reason; so that the
legislative authority is within the breast of the doer, who owes it obedience. This he calls
the autonomy of reason. It is also called Independent Morality, inasmuch as it establishes
right and wrong without regard to external authority, or to the consequences of actions, or
to rewards and punishments. The doctrine is erroneous, inasmuch as it undertakes to settle
the matter of right and wrong without reference to external authority; and inasmuch as it makes
the reason within a man, not the promulgator of the law to him, but his own legislator. For
a law is a precept, a command: now no one issues precepts, or gives commands, to himself. To
command is an act of jurisdiction; and jurisdiction, like justice (see c. v., s. ix., n. 1,
p. 102) requires a distinction of persons, one ruler, and another subject. But the reason in
a man is not a distinct subject from the will, appetites, or other faculties within him, to
which reason dictates: they are all one nature, one person, one man; consequently, no one of
them can strictly be said to command the rest; and the dictate of reason, as emanating from
within oneself, is not a law. But without a law, there is no strict obligation. Therefore the
whole theory of obligation is not locked up in the Categorical Imperative, as Kant formulated it.

4. The above argumentation evinces that God is not under any law; for there is no other God
above Him to command Him. As for the ideas of what is meet and just in the Divine intelligence,
though the Divine will, being a perfect will, is not liable to act against them, yet are those
ideas improperly called a law to the Divine will, because intellect and will are identified
in one God. Kant's doctrine makes us all gods. It is a deification of the human intellect,
and identification of that intellect with the supreme and universal Reason; and at the same
time a release of the human will from all authority extraneous to the individual. This amounts
to a putting off of all authority properly so called, and makes each man as sovereign and unaccountable
as his Maker. "Thy heart is lifted up, and thou hast said: I am God, and sit in the chair of
God: and hast set thy heart as if it were the heart of God: whereas thou art a man and not
God." (Ezech. xxviii. 2.) Kant is thus the father of the pantheistic school of Fichte, Schelling,
and Hegel.

5. But it has been contended that this phrase about a man who does wrong breaking a law, is
only a metaphor and figure of speech, unless it be used with reference to the enactment of
some civil community. Thus John Austin says that a natural law is a law which is not, but which
he who uses the expression thinks ought to be made. At this rate sin is not a transgression
of any law, except so far as it happens to be, in the lawyer's sense of the word, a crime,
or something punishable in a human court of justice. There will then be no law but man's law.
How then am I obliged to obey man's law? Dr. Bain answers: "Because, if you disobey, you will
be punished." But that punishment will be either just or unjust: if unjust, it originates no
obligation: if just, it presupposes an obligation, as it presupposes a crime and sin, that
is, an obligation violated. There seems to be nothing left for John Austin but to fall back
upon Kant and his Categorical Imperative, and say that whoever rebels against the duly constituted
authority of the State in which he lives, is a rebel against the reason that dwells within
his own breast, and which requires him to behave like a citizen. So that ultimately it is not
the State, but his own reason that he has offended; and the State has no authority over him
except what his own reason gives.

6. If this were true, there would be no sin anywhere except what is called philosophical sin,
that is, a breach of the dignity of man's rational nature; and the hardest thing that could
be said in reprobation of a wrongdoer, would be that he had gone against himself, and against
his fellow-men, by outraging reason, the common attribute of the race.

7. Far worse than that has the sinner done. He has offended against his own reason, and thereby
against a higher Reason, substantially distinct from his, standing to it in the relation of
Archetype to type, a Living Reason, [Greek: hepsychos logos] (cf. Ar., Eth., V., iv., 7), purely
and supremely rational. The Archetype is outraged by the violation of the type. Moreover, as
the two are substantially distinct, the one being God, the other a faculty of man, there is
room for a command, for law. A man may transgress and sin, in more than the philosophical sense
of the word: he may be properly a law-breaker, by offending against this supreme Reason, higher
and other than his own.

8. Here we must pause and meditate a parable.--There was a certain monastery where the monks
lived in continual violation of monastic observance. Their Abbot was a holy man, a model of
what a monk ought to be. But though perfectly cognisant of the delinquencies of his community,
he was content to display to his subjects the edifying example of his own life, and to let
it appear that he was aware of their doings and pained at them. He would croon softly as he
went about the house old Hell's words: "Not so, my sons, not so: why do ye these kind of things,
very wicked things?" But the monks took no notice of him. It happened in course of time that
the Abbot went away for about ten days. What he did in that time, never transpired: though
there was some whisper of certain "spiritual exercises," which he was said to have been engaged
in. Certain it is, that he returned to his monastery, as he left it, a monk devout and regular:
the monk was the same, but the Abbot was mightily altered. The morning after his arrival, a
Chapter was held; the Abbot had the Rule read from cover to cover, and announced his intention
of enforcing the same. And he was as good as his word. Transgressions of course abounded: but
the monks discovered that to transgress was quite a different thing now from what it had been.
Seeing the law proclaimed, and the Abbot in earnest to enforce it, they too reformed themselves:
the few who would not reform had to leave. The subsequent holy lives of those monks do not
enter into this history.

9. Now, we might fancy God our Lord like the Abbot of that monastery in the early years of
his rule. We might fancy the Supreme Reason, displeased indeed, as Reason must be, at the excesses
and follies of mankind, but not otherwise commanding men to avoid those evil courses. Were
God to be thus quiescent, what we have called (n. 6) philosophical sin, would indeed carry
this additional malice, beyond what was there set down, of being an offence against God, but
it would not be a grievous offence: for it would not be a sin in the proper sense of the term,
not being a transgression of the law of God, inasmuch as God, by the supposition, would have
given no law. But the supposition itself is absurd. God could not so withhold His command.
He is free indeed not to command, but that only by not creating. If He wills to have creatures,
He must likewise will to bind them to certain lines of action: which will to bind in God is
a law to the creature.

10. This assertion, that God cannot but will to bind His creatures to certain lines of action,
must be proved, though in the ascent we have to mount to high regions, and breathe those subtle
airs that are wafted round the throne of the Eternal. As God is the one source of all reality
and of all power, not only can there be no being which He has not created and does not still
preserve, but no action either can take place without His concurrence. God must go with His
every creature in its every act: otherwise, on the creature's part, nothing could be done.
Now, God cannot be indifferent what manner of act He shall concur unto. A servant or a subject
may be indifferent what command he receives: he may will simply to obey,--to go here or there,
as he is bid, or to be left without orders where he is. That is because he leaves the entire
direction and management of the household to his master. But for God to be thus indifferent
what action He should lend His concurrence to, would be to forego all design and purpose of
His own as to the use and destiny of the creatures which He has made and continually preserves.
This God cannot do, for He cannot act aimlessly. It would be renouncing the direction of His
own work, and making the creature His superior. God is incapable of such renunciation and subservience.
He must, then, will the cooperation which He lends, and the concurrent action of the creature,
to take a certain course, regulated and prescribed by Himself: which is our proposition, that
God cannot but will to bind His creatures to certain lines of action. If His free creatures
choose to stray from these lines, God indeed still cooperates, and to His cooperation is to
be ascribed the physical goodness of the action, not its moral inordinateness and inopportuneness.
Still, as the action is morally inordinate, God may be said to cooperate, in a manner, where
He would not: whence we gather some conception of the enormity of sin. (See c. vii., nn. 5,
6, pp. 130, 131.)

11. The lines of action laid down and prescribed by God are not arbitrary and irrespective
of the subject of the command. They are determined in each case by the nature of the subject.
The Author of Nature is not apt to subvert that order which proceeds from Himself. He bids
every creature act up to that nature wherein He has created it. His commands follow the line
of natural exigency. What this natural exigency amounts to in man in regard to his human acts,
we have already seen, (c. vi., s. i., p. 109.)

12. The difference between a necessary and a free agent is, that the former is determined by
its nature to act in a certain way, and cannot act otherwise: the latter may act in more ways
than one. Still, as we have seen, the nature even of a free agent is not indifferent to all
manner of action. It requires, though it does not constrain, the agent to act in certain definite
ways, the ways of moral goodness. Acting otherwise, as he may do, the free agent gainsays his
own nature, taken as a whole, a thing that a necessary agent can nowise do. God therefore who,
as we have shown, wills and commands all creatures whatsoever to act on the lines of their
nature, has especial reason to give this command to His rational creatures, with whom alone
rests the momentous freedom to disobey.

13. We are now abreast of the question, of such burning interest in these days, as to the connection
of Ethics with Theology, or of Morality with Religion. I will not enquire whether the dogmatic
atheist is logically consistent in maintaining any distinction between right and wrong: happily,
dogmatic atheists do not abound. But there are many who hold that, whether there be a God or
no, the fact ought not to be imported into Moral Science: that a Professor of Ethics, as such,
has no business with the name of the Almighty on his lips, any more than a lecturer on Chemistry
or Fortification. This statement must be at once qualified by an important proviso. If we have
any duties of worship and praise towards our Maker: if there is such a virtue as religion,
and such a sin as blasphemy: surely a Professor of Morals must point that out. He cannot in
that case suppress all reference to God, for the same reason that he cannot help going into
the duties of a man to his wife, or of an individual to the State, if marriage and civil government
are natural institutions. If there is a God to be worshipped, any book on Moral Science is
incomplete without a chapter on Religion. But the question remains, whether the name of God
should enter into the other chapters, and His being and authority into the very foundations
of the science. I do not mean the metaphysical foundations; for Metaphysics are like a two-edged
sword, that cleaves down to the very marrow of things, and must therefore reveal and discover
God. But Morality, like Mathematics, takes certain metaphysical foundations for granted, without
enquiring into them. On these foundations we rear the walls, so to speak, of the science of
Ethics without reference to God, but we cannot put the roof and crown upon the erection, unless
we speak of Him and of His law. Moral distinctions, as we saw (c. vi., s. i. n. 7, p. 113),
are antecedent to the Divine command to observe them: and though they rest ultimately on the
Divine nature, that ultimate ground belongs to Metaphysics, not to Ethics. Ethics begins with
human nature, pointing out that there are certain human acts that do become a man, and others
that do not. (c. vi., s. i., p. 109.) To see this, it is not necessary to look up above man.
Thus we shall prove lying, suicide, and murder to be wrong, and good fellowship a duty, without
needing to mention the Divine Being, though by considering Him the proof gains in cogency.
Or rather, apart from God we shall prove certain acts wrong, and other acts obligatory as duties,
philosophically speaking, with an initial and fundamental wrongness and obligation. In the
present section we have proved once for all, that what is wrong philosophically, or is philosophically
a duty, is the same also theologically. Thus the initial and fundamental obligation is transformed
into an obligation formal and complete. Therefore, hereafter we shall be content to have established
the philosophical obligation, knowing that the theological side is invariably conjoined therewith.
As St. Thomas says (1a 2a, q. 71, art. 6, ad 5): "By theologians sin is considered principally
as it is an offence against God: but by the moral philosopher, inasmuch as it is contrary to
reason." But what is contrary to reason offends God, and is forbidden by Divine law, and thus
becomes a sin. No God, no sin. Away from God, there is indecency and impropriety, unreasonableness,
abomination, and brutality, all this in view of outraged humanity: there is likewise crime
against the State: but the formal element of sin is wanting. With sin, of course, disappears
also the punishment of sin as such. Thus to leave God wholly out of Ethics and Natural Law,
is to rob moral evil of half its terrors, and of that very half which is more easily "understanded
of the people." A consideration for school-managers.

Readings.--St. Thos., 1a, q. 22, art. 2, in corp. (against Lucretius, ii. 646-651); Suarez,
De Legibus, II., vi., nn. 3, 5-9, 13, 14, 17, 20-24.

CHAPTER VII.

OF THE ETERNAL LAW.

1. A law is defined to be: A precept just and abiding, given for promulgation to a perfect
community. A law is primarily a rule of action. The first attribute of a law is that it be
just: just to the subject on whom it is imposed, as being no harmful abridgment of his rights:
just also to other men, as not moving him to injustice against them. An unjust law is no law
at all, for it is not a rule of action. Still, we may sometimes be bound, when only our own
rights are infringed, to submit to such an imposition, not as a law, for it is none, but on
the score of prudence, to escape direr evils. A law is no fleeting, occasional rule of conduct,
suited to meet some passing emergency or superficial disturbance. The reason of a law lies
deep down, lasting and widespread in the nature of the governed. A law, then, has these two
further attributes of permanence in duration and amplitude in area. Every law is made for all
time, and lives on with the life of the community for whom it is enacted, for ever, unless
it be either expressly or implicitly repealed. A law in a community is like a habit in an individual,
an accretion to nature, which abides as part of the natural being, and guides henceforth the
course of natural action. This analogy holds especially of those laws, which are not enacted
all of a sudden--and such are rarely the best laws--but grow upon the people with gradual growth
unmarked, like a habit by the repetition of acts, in the way of immemorial custom. I have said
that a law is for a community, that it requires amplitude and large area. A law is not laid
down for an individual, except so far as his action is of importance to the community. The
private concerns of one man do not afford scope and room enough for a law. Neither do the domestic
affairs of one family. A father is not a legislator. A law aims at a deep, far-reaching, primary
good. But the private good of an individual, and the domestic good of a family, are not primary
goods, inasmuch as the individual and the family are not primary but subordinate beings: not
complete and independent, but dependent and partial; not wholes but parts. The individual is
part of the family, and the family is part of a higher community. It is only when we are come
to some community which is not part of any higher, that we have found the being, the good of
which is primary good, the aim of law. Such a community, not being part of any higher community
in the same order, is in its own order a perfect community. Thus, in the temporal order, the
individual is part of the State. The State is a perfect community; and the good of the State
is of more consequence than the temporal well-being of any individual citizen. The temporal
good of the individual, then, is matter of law, in so far as it is subservient to the good
of the State. We have, then, to hold that a law is given to the members of a perfect community
for the good of the whole. Not every precept, therefore, is a law: nor every superior a lawgiver:
for it is not every superior that has charge of the good of a perfect community. Many a precept
is given to an individual, either for his private good, as when a father commands his child,
or for the private good of him that issues the precept, as when a master commands a servant.
But every law is a precept: for a law is an imperative rule of action, in view of a good that
is necessary, at least with the necessity of convenience. To every law there are counsels attached.
A law may be said to be a nucleus of precept, having an envelope of counsel. Every law has
also a pendent called punishment for those who break it: this is called the sanction of the
law. A law is also for promulgation, as a birch rod for application. The promulgation, or application,
brings the law home to the subject, but is not part of the law itself. So much for the definition
of Law.

2. We have to learn to look upon the whole created universe, and the fulness thereof, angels,
men, earth, sun, planets, fixed stars, all things visible and invisible, as one great and perfect
community, whose King and Lawgiver is God. He is King, because He is Creator and Lord. But
lordship and kingship are different things, even in God. It is one thing to be lord and master,
owner and proprietor of a chattel, property and domain: it is another thing to be king and
governor, lawgiver and judge of political subjects. The former is called power of dominion,
or right of ownership, the latter is power of jurisdiction. Power of dominion is for the good
of him who wields it: but power of jurisdiction is for the good of the governed. As God is
Lord of the universe, He directs all its operations to His own glory. As He is King, He governs
as a king should govern, for the good of His subjects. In intellectual creatures, whose will
is not set in opposition to God, the subject's good and the glory of the Lord finally coincide.
God's power of dominion is the concern of theologians: the moralist is taken up with His power
of jurisdiction, from whence emanates the moral law.

3. In the last chapter (s. ii., nn. 9, 10, pp. 120, 121), we stated the moral law in these
terms, that God wills to bind His creatures to certain lines of action, not arbitrary lines,
as we saw, but the natural lines of each creature's being. The law thus stated takes in manifestly
a wider field than that of moral action. There is in fact no action of created things that
is not comprehended under this statement. It comprises the laws of physical nature and the
action of physical causes, no less than the moral law and human acts. It is the one primeval
law of the universe, antecedent to all actual creation, and co-eternal with God. And yet not
necessary as God: for had God not decreed from all eternity to create--and He need not have
decreed it--neither would He have passed in His own Divine Mind this second decree, necessarily
consequent as it is upon the decree of creation, namely, that every creature should act in
the mode of action proper of its kind. This decree, supervening from eternity upon the creative
decree, is called the Eternal Law.

4. This law does not govern the acts of God Himself. God ever does what is wise and good, not
because He binds Himself by the decree of His own will so to act, but because of His all-perfect
nature. His own decrees have not for Him the force of a precept: that is impossible in any
case: yet He cannot act against them, as His nature allows not of irresolution, change of mind,
and inconsistency.

5. Emanating from the will of God, and resting upon the nature of the creature, it would seem
that the Eternal Law must be irresistible. "Who resisteth His will?" asks the Apostle. (Rom.
ix. 19.) "The streams of sacred rivers are flowing upwards, and justice and the universal order
is wrenched back." (Euripides, Medea, 499.) It is only the perversion spoken of by the poet,
that can anywise supply the instance asked for by the Apostle. The thing is impossible in the
physical order. The rivers cannot flow upwards, under the conditions under which rivers usually
flow: but justice and purity, truth and religion may be wrenched back, in violation of nature
and of the law eternal. The one thing that breaks this law is sin. Sin alone is properly unnatural.
The world is full of physical evils, pain, famine, blindness, disease, decay and death. But
herein is nothing against nature: the several agents act up to their nature, so far as it goes:
it is the defect of nature that makes the evil. But sin is no mere shortcoming: it is a turning
round and going against nature, as though the July sun should freeze a man, or the summer air
suffocate him. Physical evil comes by the defect of nature, and by permission of the Eternal
Law. But the moral evil of sin is a breach of that law.

6. A great point with modern thinkers is the inviolability of the laws of physical nature,
e.g., of gravitation or of electrical induction. If these laws are represented, as J. S. Mill
said they should be, as tendencies only, they are truly inviolable. The law of gravitation
is equally fulfilled in a falling body, in a body suspended by a string, and in a body borne
up by the ministry of an angel. There is no law of nature to the effect that a supernatural
force shall never intervene. Even if, as may be done perhaps in the greatest miracles, God
suspends His concurrence, so that the creature acts not at all, even that would be no violation
of the physical law of the creature's action: for all that such a law provides is, that the
creature, if it acts at all, shall act in a certain way, not that God shall always give the
concurrence which is the necessary condition of its acting at all. The laws of physical nature
then are, strictly speaking, never violated, although the course of nature is occasionally
altered by supernatural interference, and continually by free human volition. But the laws
of physical nature, in the highest generality, are identified with the moral law. The one Eternal
Law embraces all the laws of creation. It has a physical and a moral side. On the former it
effects, on the latter it obliges, but on both sides it is imperative; and though in moral
matters it be temporarily defeated by sin, still the moral behest must in the end be fulfilled
as surely as the physical behest. The defeat of the law must be made good, the sin must be
punished. Of the Eternal Law working itself out in the form of punishment, we shall speak presently.

7. It is important to hold this conception of the Eternal Law as embracing physical nature
along with rational agents. To confine the law, as modern writers do, to rational agents alone,
is sadly to abridge the view of its binding force. The rigid application of physical laws is
brought home to us daily by science and by experience: it is a point gained, to come to understand
that the moral law, being ultimately one with those physical laws, is no less absolute and
indefeasible, though in a different manner, than they.

It is hard for us to conceive of laws being given to senseless things. We cannot ourselves
prescribe to iron or to sulphur the manner of its action. As Bacon says (Novum Organum, i.,
Aphorism 4): "Man can only put natural bodies together or asunder: nature does the rest within."
That is, man cannot make the laws of nature: he can only arrange collocations of materials
so as to avail himself of those laws. But God makes the law, issuing His command, the warrant
without which no creature could do anything, that every creature, rational and irrational,
shall act each according to its kind or nature. Such is the Eternal Law.

Readings.--Suarez, De Legibus, I., xii.; St. Thos., 1a 2a, q. 90, art. 2-4; ib., q. 91, art.
1, in corp., ad 1; ib., q. 93, art. 1, in corp.; ib., q. 93, art. 4, in corp.; ib., q. 93,
art. 5, in corp.; ib., q. 93, art. 6, in corp.; Suarez, De Legibus, II., vi.; Cicero, De Legibus,
II., iv.; id., De Republica, iii. 22.

1. It is an axiom of the schools, that whatever is received, is received according to the manner
of the recipient. We have spoken of the law that governs the world, as that law has existed
from eternity in the mind of God. We have now to consider that law as it is received in creatures,
and becomes the inward determinant of their action. Action is either necessary or free. The
great multitude of creatures are wholly necessary agents. Even in free agents, most of what
is in them, and much that proceeds from them, is of necessity, and beyond the control of their
will. Of necessary action, whether material or mental, we shall have nothing further to say.
It is governed by the Eternal Law, but it is not matter of moral philosophy. Henceforth we
have to do with that law, only as it is received in free agents, as such, to be the rule of
their conduct. The agents being free, the law must be received in a manner consonant with their
freedom. It is proper to a free and rational being to guide itself, not to be dragged or pushed,
but to go its own way, yet not arbitrarily, but according to law. The law for such a creature
must be, not a physical determinant of its action, but a law operating in the manner of a motive
to the will, obliging and binding, yet not constraining it: a law written in the intellect
after the manner of knowledge: a law within the mind and consciousness of the creature, whereby
it shall measure and regulate its own behaviour. This is the natural law of conscience. It
is the Eternal Law, as made known to the rational creature, whereby to measure its own free
acts. The Eternal Law is in the Mind of God: the Natural Law in the minds of men and angels.
The Eternal Law adjusts all the operations of creatures: the Natural Law, only the free acts
of intellectual creatures. And yet, for binding force, the Natural Law is one with the Eternal
Law. On a summer evening one observes the sunset on the west coast; the heavens are all aglow
with the sun shining there, and the waters are aglow too, reflecting the sun's rays. The Eternal
Law is as the sun there in the heavens, the Natural Law is like the reflection in the sea.
But it is one light.

2. It is called the Natural Law, first, because it is found, more or less perfectly expressed,
in all rational beings: now whatever is found in all the individuals of a kind, is taken to
belong to the specific nature, or type of that kind. Again it is called the Natural Law, because
it is a thing which any rational nature must necessarily compass and contain within itself
in order to arrive at its own proper perfection and maturity. Thus this inner law is natural,
in the sense in which walking, speech, civilization are natural to man. A man who has it not,
is below the standard of his species. It will be seen that dancing, singing--at least to a
pitch of professional excellence--and a knowledge of Greek, are not, in this sense, natural.
The Natural Law is not natural, in the sense of "coming natural," as provincial people say,
or coming to be in man quite irrespectively of training and education, as comes the power of
breathing. It was absurd of Paley (Mor. Phil., bk. i., c. v.) to look to the wild boy of Hanover,
who had grown up in the woods by himself, to display in his person either the Natural Law or
any other attribute proper to a rational creature.

3. We call this the natural law of conscience, because every individual's conscience applies
this law, as he understands it, to his own particular human acts, and judges of their morality
accordingly. What then is conscience? It is not a faculty, not a habit, it is an act. It is
a practical judgment of the understanding. It is virtually the conclusion of a syllogism, the
major premiss of which would be some general principle of command or counsel in moral matters;
the minor, a statement of fact bringing some particular case of your own conduct under that
law; and the conclusion, which is conscience, a decision of the case for yourself according
to that principle: e.g., "There is no obligation of going to church on (what Catholics call)
a day of devotion: this day I am now living is only a day of devotion; therefore I am not bound
to go to church to-day." Such is the train of thought, not always so explicitly and formally
developed, that passes through the mind, when conscience works. It is important to remember
that conscience is an act of intellect, a judgment, not on a matter of general principle, not
about other people's conduct, but about my own action in some particular case, and the amount
of moral praise or blame that I deserve, or should deserve, for it. As regards action already
done, or not done, conscience testifies, accusing or excusing. As regards action contemplated,
conscience restrains or prompts, in the way of either obligation or counsel.

4. Conscience is not infallible: it may err, like any other human judgment. A man may be blind,
if not exactly to his own action, at least to the motives and circumstances of his action.
He may have got hold of a wrong general principle of conduct. He may be in error as to the
application of his principle to the actual facts. In all these ways, what we may call the conscientious
syllogism may be at fault, like any other syllogism. It may be a bad syllogism, either in logical
form, or in the matter of fact asserted in the premisses. This is an erroneous conscience.
But, for action contemplated, even an erroneous conscience is an authoritative decision. If
it points to an obligation, however mistakenly, we are bound either to act upon the judgment
or get it reversed. We must not contradict our own reason: such contradiction is moral evil,
(c. v., s. iii., n. 3, p. 74.) If conscience by mistake sets us free of what is objectively
our bounden duty, we are not there and then bound to that duty: but we may be bound at once
to get that verdict of conscience overhauled and reconsidered. Conscience in this case has
proceeded in ignorance, which ignorance will be either vincible or invincible, and must be
treated according to the rules provided in the matter of ignorance, (c. iii., s. i., nn. 3-5,
p. 27). An obligation, neglected in invincible ignorance, makes a merely material sin. (c.
iii., s. ii., n. 7, p. 33.)

5. There is another element of mind, often confounded under one name with conscience, but distinct
from it, as a habit from an act, and as principles from their application. This element the
schoolmen called synderesis. [Footnote 10]

[Footnote 10: On the derivation of this word, whether from [Greek: synedaesis] or [Greek: syntaeresis],
see Athenaum, 1877, vol. i., pp. 738, 798, vol. iii. pp. 16, 48.]

Synderesis is an habitual hold upon primary moral judgments, as, that we must do good, avoid
evil, requite benefactors, honour superiors, punish evil-doers. There is a hot controversy
as to how these primary moral judgments arise in the mind. The coals of dispute are kindled
by the assumption, that these moral judgments must needs have a totally other origin and birth
in the mind than speculative first principles, as, that the whole is greater than the part,
that two and two are four, that things which are equal to the same thing are equal to one another.
The assumption is specious, but unfounded. It looks plausible because of this difference, that
moral judgments have emotions to wait upon them, speculative judgments have not. Speculative
judgments pass like the philosophers that write them down, unheeded in the quiet of their studies.
But moral judgments are rulers of the commonwealth: they are risen to as they go by, with majesty
preceding and cares coming after. Their presence awakens in us certain emotions, conflicts
of passion, as we think of the good that we should do, but have not done, or of the evil that
goes unremedied and unatoned for. Commonly a man cannot contemplate his duty, a difficult or
an unfulfilled duty especially, without a certain emotion, very otherwise than as he views
the axioms of mathematics. There is a great difference emotionally, but intellectually the
two sets of principles, speculative and moral, are held alike as necessary truths, truths that
not only are, but must be, and cannot be otherwise: truths in which the predicate of the proposition
that states them is contained under the subject. Such are called self-evident propositions;
and the truths that they express, necessary truths. The enquiry into the origin of our primary
moral judgments is thus merged in the question, how we attain to necessary truth.

6. The question belongs to Psychology, not to Ethics: but we will treat it briefly for ethical
purposes. And first for a clear notion of the kind of judgments that we are investigating.

"The primary precepts of the law of nature stand to the practical reason as the first principles
of scientific demonstration do to the speculative reason: for both sets of principles are self-evident.
A thing is said to be self-evident in two ways, either in itself, or in reference to us. In
itself every proposition, the predicate of which can be got from consideration of the subject
is said to be self-evident. But it happens that to one who is ignorant of the definition of
the subject, such a proposition will not be self-evident: as this proposition, Man is a rational
being, is self-evident in its own nature, because to name man is to name something rational;
and yet, to one ignorant what man is, this proposition is not self-evident. And hence it is
that, as Boethius says: "there are some axioms self-evident to all alike." Of this nature are
all those propositions whose terms are known to all, as, Every whole is greater than its part;
and, Things which are equal to the same thing are equal to one another. Some propositions again
are self-evident only to the wise, who understand the meaning of the terms: as, to one who
understands that an angel is not a body, it is self-evident that an angel is not in a place
by way of circumscription; [Footnote 11] which is not manifest to others, who do not understand
the term." (St. Thos., 1a 2a q. 94, art. 2, in corp.)

[Footnote 11: Circumscriptive, which word is explained by St. Thos., 1a, q. 52. art. 1.]

One more extract. "From the very nature of an intellectual soul it is proper to man that, as
soon as he knows what a whole is, and what a part is, he knows that every whole is greater
than its part; and so of the rest. But what is a whole, and what a part, that he cannot know
except through sensory impressions. And therefore Aristotle shows that the knowledge of principles
comes to us through the senses." (St. Thos., 1a 2a, q. 51, art. 1, in corp.)

7. Thus the propositions that right is to be done, benefactors to be requited, are self-evident,
necessary truths, to any child who has learned by experience the meaning of right, of kindness,
and of a return of kindness. "Yes, but"--some one will say--"how ever does he get to know what
right and wrong are? Surely sensory experience cannot teach him that." We answer, man's thoughts
begin in sense, and are perfected by reflection. Let us take the idea of wrong, the key to
all other elementary moral ideas. The steps by which a child comes to the fulness of the idea
of wrong may be these. First, the thing is forbidden: then one gets punished for it. Punishment
and prohibition enter in by eye and ear and other senses besides. Then the thing is offensive
to those we love and revere. Then it is bad for us. Then it is shameful, shabby, unfair, unkind,
selfish, hateful to God. All these points of the idea of wrong are grasped by the intellect,
beginning with sensory presentations of what is seen and felt and heard said. Again with the
idea of ought. This idea is sometimes said to defy analysis. But we have gone about (c. vi.)
to analyse it into two elements, nature requiring, nature's King commanding. The idea of wrong
we analysed into a breach of this natural requirement, and this Divine command or law. Primary
moral ideas, then, yield to intellectual analysis. They are of this style: to be done, as I
wish to be rational and please God: not to be done, unless I wish to spoil myself and disobey
my Maker. But primary moral ideas, compared together, make primary moral judgments. Primary
moral judgments, therefore, arise in the intellect, by the same process as other beliefs arise
there in matters of necessary truth.

8. Thus, applying the principle known as Occham's razor, that "entities are not to be multiplied
without reason," we refuse to acknowledge any Moral Sense, distinct from Intellect. We know
of no peculiar faculty, specially made to receive "ideas, pleasures and pains in the moral
order." (Mackintosh, Ethics, p. 206.) Most of all, we emphatically protest against any blind
power being accredited as the organ of morality. We cannot accept for our theory of morals,
that everything is right which warms the breast with a glow of enthusiasm, and all those actions
wrong, at which emotional people are prone to cry out, dreadful, shocking. We cannot accept
emotions for arbitrators, where it most concerns reasonable beings to have what the Apostle
calls "enlightened eyes of the heart" (Ephes. i. 18), that we may "know to refuse the evil
and to choose the good." (Isaias vii. 15.) A judge may have his emotions, but his charge to
the jury must be dictated, not by his heart, but by his knowledge of the law. And the voice
of conscience, whatever feelings it may stir, must be an intellectual utterance, and, to be
worth anything in a case of difficulty, a reasoned conclusion, based on observation of facts,
and application of principles, and consultation with moral theologians and casuists. A subjective
and emotional standard of right and wrong is as treacherous and untrustworthy as the emotional
justification of those good people, who come of a sudden to "feel converted."

9. It would be unnecessary, except for the wrong-headedness of philosophers, to observe that
conscience requires educating. As moral virtue is a habit of appetite, rational or irrational,
a formation resulting from frequent acts; and as the child needs to be aided and assisted from
without towards the performance of such acts, in order to overcome the frequent resistance
of appetite to reason (c. v., s. ii., n. 4, p. 71): so the springs of conscience are certain
intellectual habits, whereby the subject is cognisant of the principles of natural law, and
of their bearing on his own conduct, habits which, like the habits of moral virtue, require
to be formed by acts from within and succour from without, since merely the rudiments of the
habit are supplied by nature. Even the first principles of morality want formulating and pointing
out to children, like the axioms of geometry. The mother tells her little one: "Ernest, or
Frank, be a good boy:" while the schoolmaster explains to Master Ernest that two straight lines
cannot possibly enclose a space. There is something in the boy's mind that goes along with
and bears out both the teaching of his master and his mother's exhortation: something that
says within him: "To be sure, those lines can't enclose a space:" "Certainly, I ought to be
good." It is not merely on authority that he accepts these propositions. His own understanding
welcomes and approves them: so much so, that once he has understood them, he would not believe
the contrary for being told it. You would not persuade a child that it was right to pull mother's
hair; or that half an orange was literally, as Hesiod says, "more than the whole." He would
answer that it could not be, that he knew better.

10. On one ground there is greater need of education for the conscience than for any other
intellectual formation: that is because of the power of evil to fascinate and blind on practical
issues of duty. Cicero well puts it:

"We are amazed and perplexed by variety of opinions and strife of authorities; and because
there is not the same divergence upon matters of sense, we fancy that the senses afford natural
certainty, while, for moral matters, because some men take one view, some another, and the
same men different views at different times, we consider that any settlement that can be arrived
at is merely conventional, which is a huge mistake. The fact is, there is no parent, nor nurse,
nor schoolmaster, nor poet, nor stage play, to corrupt the judgments of sense, nor consent
of the multitude to wrench them away from the truth. It is for minds and consciences that all
the snares are set, as well by the agency of those whom I have just mentioned, who take us
in our tender and inexperienced age, and ingrain and fashion us as they will, as also by that
counterfeit presentment of good, which lurks in the folds of every sense, the mother of all
evil, pleasure, under whose seductive blandishments men fail to recognise the moral good that
nature offers, because it is unaccompanied by this itching desire and satisfaction." (Cicero,
De Legibus, i, 17.)

Readings.--St. Thos., 1a, q. 79, art. 11-13; Plato, Protagoras, 325, 326; John Grote, Examination
of Utilitarian Philosophy, pp. 169, 207, 208; Cardinal Newman, Grammar of Assent, pp. l02-112.

SECTION II.--Of the invariability of Primary Moral Judgments.

1. The following narrative is taken from Grote's History of Greece, c. 81.:

"It was a proud day for the Carthaginian general [Footnote 12] when he stood as master on the
ground of Himera; enabled to fulfil the duty, and satisfy the exigencies, of revenge for his
slain grandfather. Tragical indeed was the consummation of this long-cherished purpose....
All the male captives, 3,000 in number, were conveyed to the precise spot where Hamilkar had
been slain, and there put to death with indignity, as an expiatory satisfaction to his lost
honour. No man can read the account of this wholesale massacre without horror and repugnance.
Yet we cannot doubt, that among all the acts of Hannibal's life, this was the one in which
he most gloried; that it realized in the most complete and emphatic manner, his concurrent
aspirations of filial sentiment, religious obligation, and honour as a patriot; [Footnote 13]
that to show mercy would have been regarded as a mean dereliction of these esteemed impulses....
Doubtless, the feelings of Hannibal were cordially shared, and the plenitude of his revenge
envied, by the army around him. So different, sometimes so totally contrary, is the tone and
direction of the moral sentiments, among different ages and nations."

[Footnote 12: Hannibal, B.C. 409, therefore not the victor of Cannae.] [Footnote 13: Italics mine.]

We may supplement this story by another from Herodotus (iii., 38):

"Darius, after he had got the kingdom, called into his presence certain Greeks who were at
hand, and asked, 'What he should pay them to eat the bodies of their fathers when they died.'
To which they answered, that there was no sum that would tempt them to do such a thing. He
then sent for certain Indians, of the race called Callatians, men who eat their fathers, and
asked them, while the Greeks were standing by, and knew by the aid of an interpreter all that
was said--'What he should give them to burn the bodies of their fathers, at their decease?'
The Indians exclaimed aloud, and bade him forbear such language. Such is the way of men; and
Pindar was right in my judgment, when he said, 'Convention is king over all.'"

2. If any one held that the natural law of conscience was natural in the same way as the sense
of temperature: if one held to the existence of a Moral Sense in all men, settling questions
of right and wrong, as surely as all men know sweet things from bitter by tasting them: these
stories, and they could be multiplied by hundreds, abundantly suffice to confute the error.
There is no authentic copy of the moral law, printed, framed, and hung up by the hand of Nature,
in the inner sanctuary of every human heart. Man has to learn his duties as he learns the principles
of health, the laws of mechanics, the construction and navigation of vessels, the theorems
of geometry, or any other art or science. And he is just as likely to go wrong, and has gone
wrong as grievously, in his judgments on moral matters as on any other subject of human knowledge.
The knowledge of duties is natural (as explained in the previous section, n. 2), not because
it comes spontaneously, but because it is necessary to our nature for the development and perfection
of the same. Thus a man ought, so far as he can, to learn his duties: but we cannot say of
a man, as such, that he ought to learn geometry or navigation. If a man does not know his duties,
he is excused by ignorance, according to the rules under which ignorance excuses (c. iii.,
s. i., nn. 3-5, p. 27). If a man does not know navigation, there is no question of excuse for
what he was not bound to learn, but he may suffer loss by his want of knowledge.

3. It was furthermore observed above (l.c.), that the natural law was so called as being found
expressed more or less perfectly in the minds of all men, and therefore being a proper element
of human nature. It remains to see how much this universal natural expression amounts to. That
is at once apparent from our previous explanation of synderesis. (s. i., nn. 5, seq., p. 139.)
Not a complete and accurate knowledge of the natural law is found in all minds, far from it;
but synderesis is found in all. This is apparent from Mr. Grote's own phrases, "aspirations
of filial sentiment," "religious obligation," "honour as a patriot," Parents are to be honoured,
we must do our duty to God and to our country: there Hannibal was at one with the most approved
teachers of morality. Callatian and Greek agreed in the recognition of the commandment, Honour
thy father and thy mother. That was the major premiss of them both, in the moral syllogism
(s. i., n. 3, p. 135), which ruled their respective consciences. Their difference was upon
the applying minor, as it is called; the Greek regarding the dissolution of the body into its
elements by fire, and so saving it from corruption, as the best means of honouring the dead:
the Callatians preferring to raise their parents as it were to life again, by making them the
food of their living children. Hannibal, again, had before his mind the grand principle of
retribution, that wrongdoing must be expiated by suffering. But he had not heard the words
"Vengeance is Mine;" and mistakenly supposed it to rest with himself to appoint and carry out
his own measure of revenge. Whether he was quite so invincibly ignorant on this point, as Grote
represents, is open to doubt. At any rate he was correct in the primary moral judgment on which
he proceeded.

Reading.--St. Thos., 1a 2a, q. 94, art. 6.

SECTION III.--Of the immutability of the Natural Law.

1. Besides printing, many methods are now in vogue for multiplying copies of a document. Commonly
the document is written out with special ink on special paper: the copy thus used is called
a stencil; and from it other copies are struck off. We will suppose the stencil to be that
page of the Eternal Law written in the Mind of God, which regulates human acts, technically
so called. The copies struck off from that stencil will be the Natural Law in the mind of this
man and of that. Now, as all who are familiar with copying processes know too well, it happens
at times that a copy comes out very faint, and in parts not at all. These faint and partial
copies represent the Natural Law as it is imperfectly developed in the minds of many men. In
this sense, and as we may say subjectively, the Natural Law is mutable, very mutable indeed.
Still, as no one would say that the document had been altered, because some copies of it were
bad, so it is not strictly correct to say that the Natural Law varies with these subjective
varieties. Appeal would be made to a full and perfectly printed impression of the document,
one that rendered the stencil exactly. The Natural Law must be viewed in like manner, as it
would exist in a mind perfectly enlightened concerning the whole duty of man, and exactly reproducing
in itself that portion of the Eternal Law which ordains such duty. Were such a mind to discern
a natural obligation to lie differently at two different times, all the relevant circumstances
being alike in both cases, and the moral solution different, then only could the Natural Law
be held to have changed.

2. But this is clearly impossible. The conclusion of a geometrical theorem is a truth for all
time. There is no difference here between a complicated theorem, having many conditions, and
a simpler theorem with fewer. It is indeed easier for a few than for many conditions to be
all present together: but the enunciation of the conclusion supposes all the conditions, whatever
their number. The same in a practical manner, as in the stability of a bridge. The bridge that
would stand in England, would stand in Ceylon. If it would not, there must have occurred some
change in the conditions, as the heat of the tropical sun upon the girders. A point of casuistry
also, however knotty, once determined, is determined for ever and aye, for the circumstances
under which it was determined. The Natural Law in this sense is absolutely immutable, no less
in each particular application than in the most general principles. We must uniformly pass
the same judgment on the same case. What is once right and reasonable, is always right and
reasonable, in the same matter. Where to-day there is only one right course, there cannot to-morrow
be two, unless circumstances have altered. The Natural Law is thus far immutable, every jot
and tittle.

3. No power in heaven above nor on earth beneath can dispense from any portion of the Natural
Law. For the matter of the negative precepts of that law is, as we have seen, something bad
in itself and repugnant to human nature, and accordingly forbidden by God: while the matter
of the positive precepts is something good and necessary to man, commanded by God. If God were
to take off His command, or prohibition, the intrinsic exigency, or intolerableness, of the
thing to man would still remain, being as inseparable from humanity as certain mathematical
properties from a triangle. Pride is not made for man, nor fornication, nor lying, nor polygamy
[Footnote 14]: human nature would cry out against them, even were the Almighty in a particular
instance to withdraw His prohibition. What would be the use, then, of any such withdrawal?
It would not make the evil thing good. An evil thing it would still remain, unnatural, irrational,
and as such, displeasing to God, the Supreme Reason. The man would not be free to do the thing,
even though God did not forbid it. It appears, therefore, that the Divine prohibition, and
similarly the Divine command, which we have proved (c. vi., s. ii., nn. 10, 11, p. 121) to
be necessarily imposed in matters of natural evil and of naturally imperative good, is imposed
as a hard and fast line, so long as the intrinsic good or evil remains the same.

[Footnote 14: There is a theological difficulty about the polygamy of the patriarchs, which
will be touched on in Natural Law, c. vi., s. ii., n. 4. p. 272.]

4. There is, therefore, no room for Evolution in Ethics and Natural Law any more than in Geometry.
One variety of geometrical construction, or of moral action, may succeed another; but the truths
of the science, by which those varieties are judged, change not. There is indeed this peculiarity
about morality, distinguishing it from art, that if a man errs invincibly, the evil that he
takes for good is not formally evil, or evil as he wills it, and the good that he takes for
evil is formally evil to him. (c. iii., s. ii., n. 7, p. 33.) So there is variation and possible
Evolution in bare formal good and bare formal evil, as ignorance gradually changes into knowledge;
and likewise Reversion, as knowledge declines into ignorance. Even this Evolution and Reversion
have their limits: they cannot occur in the primary principles of morality, as we saw in the
last section. But morality material and objective,--complete morality, where the formal and
material elements agree, where real wrong is seen to be wrong, and real right is known for
right--in this morality there is no Evolution. If Hannibal offered human sacrifices to his
grandfather because he knew no better, and could not have known better, than to think himself
bound so to do, he is to be excused, and even praised for his piety: still it was a mistaken
piety; and the act, apart from the light in which the doer viewed it, was a hideous crime.
An incorrupt teacher of morals would have taught the Carthaginian, not that he was doing something
perfectly right for his age and country, which, however, would be wrong in Germany some centuries
later, but that he was doing an act there and then evil and forbidden of God, from which he
was bound, upon admonition, instantly to desist. [Footnote 15]

[Footnote 15: The author has seen reason somewhat to modify this view, as appears by the Appendix.
(Note to Third Edition.)]

5. There are Evolution and Reversion in architecture, but not in the laws of stability of structure,
nor in the principles of beauty as realized in building. A combination, ugly now, was not beautiful
in the days of Darius. Tastes differ, but not right tastes; and moral notions, but not right
moral notions. It is true that questions of right and wrong occur in one state of society,
that had no relevance in an earlier state, the conditions of the case not having arisen. But
so it is in architecture; there are no arches in the Parthenon. The principle of the arch,
however, held in the age of Pericles, though not applied.

6. The progress of Moral Science is the more and more perfect development of the Natural Law
in the heart of man, a psychological, not an ontological development. And Moral Science does
progress. No man can be a diligent student of morality for years, without coming to the understanding
of many things, for which one would look in vain in Aristotle's Ethics and Politics, or in
Cicero, De Officiis, or even in the Summa of St. Thomas, or perhaps in any book ever written.
New moral questions come for discussion as civilization advances. The commercial system of
modern times would furnish a theme for another De Lugo. And still on this path of ethical discovery,
to quote the text that Bacon loved, "Many shall pass over, and knowledge shall be multiplied."
(Daniel xii. 4.)

Readings.--St. Thos., Supplement, q. 65, art. 1, in corp.; ib., q. 65, art. 2, in corp., and
ad 1; Hughes, Supernatural Morals, pp. 67, 68, reviewed in The Month for August, 1891, pp.
542, 543.

SECTION IV.--Of Probabilism.

1. Sometimes conscience returns a clear, positive answer as to the morality of an act contemplated.
True or false the answer may be, but the ring of it has no uncertain sound. At other times
conscience is perplexed, and her answer is, perhaps, and perhaps not. When the woman hid Achimaas
and Jonathan in the well, and said to Absalom's servants, "They passed on in haste" (2 Kings
xvii. 17-21), did she do right in speaking thus to save their lives? A point that has perplexed
consciences for centuries. A man's hesitation is sometimes subjective and peculiar to himself.
It turns on a matter of fact, which others know full well, though he doubts; or on a point
of law, dark to him, but clearly ruled by the consent of the learned. In such cases it is his
duty to seek information from people about him, taking so much trouble to procure it as the
importance of the matter warrants, not consulting ten doctors as to the ownership of one hen.
But it may be that all due enquiries fail. The fact remains obscure; or about the law, doctors
differ, and arguments conflict indecisively. What is the man to do? Take the safe course: suppose
there is an obligation, and act accordingly? This principle, put as a command, would make human
life intolerable. It is, moreover, false, when so put, as we shall presently prove. Take the
easy course, and leave the obligation out of count? This principle is more nearly correct than
the other: but it needs interpretation, else it may prove dangerously lax.

2. To return to Achimaas and Jonathan and their hostess. Some such reckoning as this may have
passed through her mind: "Lying lips are an abomination to the Lord: but is it a lie to put
murderers off the scent of blood?" To that question finding no answer, she may have made up
her mind in this way: "Well, I don't know, but I'll risk it." If that were her procedure, she
did not walk by the scientific lines of Probabilism. The probabilist runs no risk, enters upon
no uncertainty, and yet he by no means always follows what is technically termed the safe course,
that is, the course which supposes the obligation, e.g., in the case in point, to have said
simply where the men were. How then does the probabilist contrive to extract certainty out
of a case of insoluble doubt? By aid of what is called a reflex principle. A reflex is opposed
to a direct principle. A direct principle lays down an obligation, as it would bind one who
had a perfect discernment of the law and of the facts of the case, and of the application of
the one to the other, and who was perfectly able to keep the law. By a reflex principle, a
man judges of his own act, taking account of the imperfection of his knowledge and the limitations
of his power. Probabilism steps in, only where a case is practically insoluble to an agent
upon direct principles. The probabilist thereupon leaves the direct speculative doubt unsolved.
He relinquishes the attempt of determining what a man should do in the case in question, who
had a thorough insight into the lie of the law. He leaves that aside, and considers what is
his duty, or not his duty, in the deficiency of his knowledge. Then he strikes upon the principle,
which is the root of Probabilism, that a doubtful law has no binding power. It will be observed
that this is a reflex principle. For objectively nothing is doubtful, but everything is or
is not in point of fact. To a mind that had a full grasp of the objective order of things,
there would be no doubtful law: such a mind would discern the law in every case as holding
or not holding. But no human mind is so perfect. Every man has to take account of his own limitations
of vision in judging of his duty. The question for me is, not the law absolutely, but the law
as far as I can make it out. Our proposition, then, states that when an individual, using such
moral diligence of enquiry as the gravity of the matter calls for, still remains in a state
of honest doubt as to whether the law binds, in that mental condition it does not bind him.

3. What the law does not forbid, it leaves open. Aristotle indeed (Eth., V., xi., 1) says the
contrary, that what the law does not command (he instances suicide), it forbids. All that he
seems to mean is, that if there be an act which at times might appear advantageous, and yet
is never commanded, there is a presumption of the legislator being averse to that act. Again,
there are special occasions, in view of which the legislator undertakes to regulate the whole
outward conduct of a man by positive enactment, as with a soldier on parade: what is not there
commanded, is forbidden. But these instances do not derogate from our general proposition,
which is proved in this way. The office of law is not to loose, but to bind. It declares, not
what the subject may do, but what he must or must not. It does not bring liberty, but restriction.
Therefore, if any one wishes to assert a restriction, he must go to a law to prove it. If he
can find none, liberty remains. The law is laid on liberty. Liberty is not the outcome of law,
but prior to it. Liberty is in possession. The burden of proof rests with those who would abridge
liberty and impose an obligation. It is an axiom of law itself, a natural, not an arbitrary
axiom, that better is the condition of the possessor: which amounts in this matter to another
statement, also axiomatic, that a law binds not till it is promulgated. But a law of which
I have serious outstanding doubts whether it exists at all, or, if existent, whether it reaches
my case, is for this occasion a law not duly promulgated to me. Therefore it binds me not,
and my liberty remains.

