The officers, who were all prodigiously pleased with his confusion, presently went out and
began to rally him -- "Ah, ha, lieutenant, and so the captain has given you a set down."

"A set down," replied he, very angrily, "a set down, do you call it! I had rather a thousand
times he had knocked me down -- an ugly, cross, knock-kneed, hook-nosed son of a b-t-h!"

The officers almost split their sides with laughing. The story soon took wind; and the poor
lieutenant did not hear the last of it for many a day.  I have often heard him say, that nothing
ever so completely confounded him, as did that dry, cutting speech of Marion.

"I was never at a loss before," said he, "to manage all other officers that were ever set over
me.  As for our colonel, (meaning Moultrie) he is a fine, honest, good-natured old buck.  But
I can wind him round my finger like a pack thread.  But as for the stern, keen-eyed Marion,
I dread him."

The truth is, Marion wished his officers to be gentlemen. And whenever he saw one of them acting
below that character, he would generously attempt his reformation.  And few men, perhaps, ever
knew better how to manage truants from duty.

To a coarse, conceited chap, like our lieutenant, Marion gave no quarter, but checked him at
once, but still in a way that was quite gentlemanly, and calculated to overawe.  He kept him
at arms' length -- took no freedoms with him -- nor allowed any -- and when visited on business,
he would receive and treat him with a formality sufficient to let him see that all was not right.

The effect of such management evinced the correctness of Marion's judgment. The young lieutenant
became remarkably polite, and also attentive to duty. In short, no subaltern behaved better.
And this very happy change in his manners, was soon succeeded by as pleasing a change in the
sentiments of all around him.  The officers of the regiment grew fond of him -- Marion spoke
of him with pleasure, as an excellent soldier -- and he of Marion, as his best friend.

This is sufficient to show the truth of the remark made by Aristotle -- "that there is no art
so difficult and godlike as that of managing men to their own happiness and glory."

Chapter 4.

  The clouds of danger darker and darker -- two additional regiments raised --
  Marion promoted to a majority -- fort Moultrie built --
  A British fleet and army invade Carolina -- grand preparations
  to receive them -- admirable patriotism of the Charleston ladies --
  heavy attack on fort Moultrie -- glorious defence of the garrison.

The cloud of war growing still darker and darker every day, the council of safety determined
to raise a regiment of artillery, and another of infantry.  In consequence of this, several
of the officers of the former regiments were promoted.  Among these was my friend Marion, who
from the rank of captain, was raised to a majority. His field of duties became, of course,
much more wide and difficult, but he seemed to come forward to the discharge of them with the
familiarity and alertness of one who, as general Moultrie used to say, was born a soldier.
In fact, he appeared never so happy, never so completely in his element, as when he had his
officers and men out on parade at close training.  And for cleanliness of person, neatness
of dress, and gentlemanly manners, with celerity and exactness in performing their evolutions,
they soon became the admiration and praise both of citizens and soldiers.

In March, 1776, I was sent over with my company, to Sullivan's island, to prevent the landing
of the British from the men-of-war, the Cherokee and Tamar, then lying in Rebellion road. 
I had not been long on that station, before Col. Moultrie came over with his whole regiment
to erect a fort on the island.

The truth is, the governor had of late become confoundedly afraid of a visit from the British.
The great wealth in Charleston must, he thought, by this time, have set their honest fingers
to itching -- and we also suspected that they could hardly be ignorant what a number of poor
deluded gentlemen, called tories, we had among us.

The arrival of colonel Moultrie, with the second regiment, afforded me infinite satisfaction.
It brought me once more to act in concert with Marion. 'Tis true, he had got one grade above
me in the line of preferment; but, thank God, I never minded that.  I loved Marion, and "love,"
as every body knows, "envieth not."  We met like brothers. I read in his looks the smiling
evidence of his love towards me: and I felt the strongest wish to perpetuate his partiality.
Friendship was gay within my heart, and thenceforth all nature WITHOUT put on her loveliest
aspects.  The island of sand no longer seemed a dreary waste.  Brighter rolled the blue waves
of ocean beneath the golden beam; and sweeter murmured the billows on their sandy beach. My
heart rejoiced with the playful fishes, as they leaped high wantoning in the air, or, with
sudden flounce, returned again, wild darting through their lucid element.  Our work went on
in joy. The palmetto trees were brought to us by the blacks, in large rafts, of which we constructed,
for our fort, an immense pen, two hundred feet long, and sixteen feet wide, filled with sand
to stop the shot. For our platforms, we had two-inch oak planks, nailed down with iron spikes.
With glad hearts we then got up our carriages and mounted our guns, of which twelve were 18
pounders -- twelve 24's, and twelve French 36's, equal to English 42's.

A general joy was spread over the faces of our regiment, as we looked along our battery of
thunderers.

But our glorifying, under God, was chiefly in our two and forty pounders. And indeed their
appearance was terrible, where they lay with wide Cerberean mouths, hideously gaping over the
roaring waves, and threatening destruction to the foes of liberty.

They were soon called to a trial of their metal. --  For on the 31st of May, while we were
all busily driving on with our fort, suddenly a cry was heard, "a fleet! a fleet, ho!"  Looking
out to sea, we all at once beheld, as it were, a wilderness of ships, hanging, like snow-white
clouds from the north-east sky.  It was the sirs Parker and Clinton, hastening on with nine
ships of war and thirty transports, bearing three thousand land forces, to attack Charleston.

Such an armament was an awful novelty, that produced on us all a momentary flutter; but, thank
God, no serious fear.  On the contrary, it was very visible in every glowing cheek and sparkling
eye, as we looked, LAUGHING, on one another, that we considered the approaching conflict as
a grand trial of courage, which we rather desired than dreaded. And to their equal praise,
our gallant countrymen in Charleston, as we learned daily, by the boats, were all in fine spirits,
and constantly making their best preparations to receive the enemy. And still my pen trembles
in my hand; even after this long lapse of time, it trembles with wonder and delight, to tell
of that immortal fire, which in those perilous days, glowed in the bosoms of the Charleston
FAIR. Instead of gloomy sadness and tears, for the dark cloud that threatened their city, they
wore the most enlivening looks -- constantly talked the boldest language of patriotism -- animated
their husbands, brothers, and lovers to fight bravely -- and, for themselves, they vowed they
would "never live the slaves of Britain." Some people in our days, may not believe me, when
I add of these NOBLE ladies, that they actually begged leave of their commandant, to let them
"fight by the sides of their relatives and friends." This, though a glorious request, was absolutely
refused them. For who could bear to see the sweet face of beauty roughened over with the hard
frowns of war; or, the warrior's musket, on those tender bosoms, formed of heaven only to pillow
up the cheeks of happy husbands, and of smiling babes?

But though the SPIRITS of the ladies were willing, their NERVES were weak; for when the British
ships of war hove in sight, opposite to the town, they all went down to the shore to view them.
And then strong fear, like the cold wind of autumn, struck their tender frames with trembling,
and bleached their rosy cheeks.  Some, indeed, of the younger sort, affected to laugh and boast;
but the generality returned silent and pensive, as from a funeral, hanging their lovely heads,
like rows of sickly jonquils, when the sun has forsaken the garden, and faded nature mourns
his departed beams.  Sisters were often seen to turn pale and sigh, when they looked on their
youthful brothers, while tender mothers, looking down on their infant cherubs at the breast,
let drop their pearly sorrows, and exclaimed, "happy the wombs that bear not, and the paps
that give no suck."

In consequence of a most extraordinary continuation of calms, baffling winds, and neap tides,
the enemy's ships never got within our bar till the 27th of June, and on the following morn,
the memorable 28th, they weighed anchor on the young flood, and before a fine breeze, with
top gallant sails, royals, and sky scrapers all drawing, came bearing up for the fort like
floating mountains.

The anxious reader must not suppose that we were standing all this while, with finger in mouth,
idly gaping like children on a raree show. No, by the Living! but, fast as they neared us,
we still kept our thunders close bearing upon them, like infernal pointers at a dead set; and
as soon as they were come within point blank shot, we clapped our matches and gave them a tornado
of round and double-headed bullets, which made many a poor Englishman's head ache.  Nor were
they long in our debt, but letting go their anchors and clewing up their sails, which they
did in a trice, they opened all their batteries, and broke loose upon us with a roar as if
heaven and earth had been coming together.

Such a sudden burst of flame and thunder, could not but make us feel very queer at first, especially
as we were young hands, and had never been engaged in such an awful scene before. But a few
rounds presently brought us all to rights again, and then, with heads bound up, and stripped
to the buff, we plied our bull-dogs like heroes.

