The man at the door had turned round when Stephen Brant spoke to him, and had pushed his way
out of the crowd of men and stood alone fingering his neck.

"I'm here, Stephen Brant, if yer want me."

Sam Figgis came forward then and said something to Stephen, and then shrugged his shoulders
and went back to his wife. He seemed to feel that no one could interfere between the two men--it
was too late for interference. Then things happened very quickly. Peter saw that they had all--men
and women--crowded back against the benches and the wall and were watching, very silently and
with great excitement. He found it very difficult to see, but he bent his head and peered through
the legs of a big fisherman in front of him. He was shaking all over his body. Stephen had
never before appeared so terrible to him; he had seen him when he was very angry and when he
was cross and ill-tempered, but now he was very ominous in his quiet way, and his eyes seemed
to have changed colour. The small boy could only see the middle of the floor and pieces of
legs and skirts and trousers, but he knew by the feeling in the room that Stephen and the little
man were going to fight. Then he moved his head round and saw between two shoulders, and he
saw that the two men were stripping to the waist. The centre of the room was cleared, and Sam
Figgis came forward to speak to Stephen again, and this time there was more noise, and the
people began to shout out loud and the men grew more and more excited. There had often been
fights in that room before, and Peter had witnessed one or two, but there had never been this
solemnity and ceremony--every one was very grave. It did not occur to Peter that it was odd
that it should be allowed; no one thought of policemen twenty years ago in Treliss and Sam
Figgis was more of a monarch in The Bending Mule than Queen Victoria. And now two of the famous
old chairs were placed at opposite corners, and quite silently two men, with serious faces,
as though this were the most important hour of their life, stood behind them. Stephen and the
other man, stripped to their short woollen drawers, came into the middle of the room. Stephen
had hair all over his chest, and his arms and his neck were tremendous; and Peter as he looked
at him thought that he must be the strongest man in the world. His enemy was smooth and shiny,
but he seemed very strong, and you could see the muscles of his arms and legs move under his
skin. Some one had marked a circle with chalk, and all the men and women, quite silent now,
made a dark line along the wall. The lamp in the middle of the room was still swinging a little,
and they had forgotten to close the window, so that the snow, which was falling more lightly
now, came in little clouds with breaths of wind, into the room--and the bells were yet pealing
and could be heard very plainly against the silence.

Then Sam Figgis, who was standing with his legs wide apart, said something that Peter could
not catch, and a little sigh of excitement went up all round the room. Peter, who was clutching
his chair with both hands, and choking, very painfully, in his throat, knew, although he had
no reason for his knowledge, that the little man with the shining chest meant to kill Stephen
if he could.

The two men moved round the circle very slowly with their fists clenched and their eyes watching
every movement--then, suddenly, they closed. At once Peter saw that the little man was very
clever, cleverer than Stephen. He moved with amazing quickness. Stephen's blows came like sledge-hammers,
and sometimes they fell with a dull heavy sound on the other man's face and on his chest, but
more often they missed altogether. The man seemed to be everywhere at once, and although the
blows that he gave Stephen seemed to have little effect yet he got past the other's defence
again and again.

Then, again, the figures in front of Peter closed in and he saw nothing. He stood on his chair--no
one noticed him now--but he could not see. His face was very white, and his stockings had fallen
down over his boots, but with every movement he was growing more afraid. He caught an instant's
vision of Stephen's face, and he saw that it was white and that he was breathing hard. The
room seemed to be ominously silent, and then men would break out into strange threatening sounds,
and Peter could see one woman--a young girl--with a red shawl about her shoulders, her back
against the wall, staring with a white face.

He could not see--he could not see....

He murmured once very politely--he thought he said it aloud but it was really under his breath:
"Please, please--would you mind--if you stood aside--just a little...." but the man in front
of him was absorbed and heard nothing. Then he knew that there was a pause, he caught a glimpse
of the brick floor and he saw that Stephen was sitting back in his chair--his face was white,
and blood was trickling out from the corner of his mouth on to his beard. Then Peter remembered
old Frosted Moses' words: "The courage you bring to it...." and he sat back in his chair again
and, with hands clenched, waited. He would be brave, braver than he had ever been before, and
perhaps in some strange way his bravery would help Stephen. He determined with all the power
that he had to be brave. They had begun again, he heard the sound of the blows, the movement
of the men's feet on the rough brick of the floor; people cried out, the man in front of him
pressed forward and he had a sudden view. Stephen was on one knee and his head was down and
the other man was standing over him. It was all over--Stephen was beaten--Stephen would be
killed, and in another minute Peter would have pushed past the people and run into the middle
of the room, but Sam Figgis had again come forward, and the two men were in their chairs again.
There followed another terrible time when Peter could see nothing. He waited--he could hear
them moving again, the noise of their breathing and of their feet, the men in the crowd were
pressing nearer, but there was no word spoken.

He must see--at all costs he must see. And he climbed down from his chair, and crept unnoticed
towards the front. Nobody saw him or realised him.... Stephen was bending back, he seemed to
be slowly sinking down. The other man, from whose face blood was now streaming, was pressing
on to him. Peter knew that it was all over and that there was no hope; there was a dreadful
cold, hard pain in his throat, and he could scarcely see. Courage! he must have it for Stephen.
With every bit of his soul and his mind and his body he was brave. He stood taut--his little
legs stiff beneath him and flung defiance at the world. He and Stephen were fighting that shiny
man together--both of them--now. Courage! Stephen's head lifted a little, and then slowly Peter
saw him pulling his body together--he grew rigid, he raised his head, and, as a tree falls,
his fist crashed into his enemy's face. The man dropped without a word and lay motionless.
It was over. Stephen gravely watched for a moment the senseless body and then sat back in his
chair, his head bowed on his chest.

The fight had not, perhaps, been like that--there must have been many other things that happened,
but that was always how Peter remembered it. And now there was confusion--a great deal of noise
and people talking very loudly, but Stephen said nothing at all. He did not look at the body
again, but when he had recovered a little, still without a word to any one and with his eyes
grave and without expression, he moved to the corner where his clothes lay.

"'E's not dead."

"No--give 'im room there, he's moving," and from the back of the crowd the Fool's silly face,
peering over...

Peter crept unnoticed to the door. The clocks were striking ten, and some one in the street
was singing. He pulled up his stockings and fastened his garters, then he slipped out into
the snow and saw that the sky was full of stars and that the storm had passed.

CHAPTER II

HOW THE WESTCOTT FAMILY SAT UP FOR PETER

I

The boy always reckoned that, walking one's quickest, it took half an hour from the door of
The Bending Mule to Scaw House, where his father lived. If a person ran all the way twenty
minutes would perhaps cover it, but, most of the time, the road went up hill and that made
running difficult; he had certainly no intention of running to-night, there were too many things
to think about. That meant, then, that he would arrive home about half-past ten, and there
would be his aunt and his grandfather and his father sitting up waiting for him.

The world was very silent, and the snow lay on the round cobbles of the steep street with a
bright shining whiteness against the black houses and the dark night sky. Treliss' principal
street was deserted; all down the hill red lights showed in the windows and voices could be
heard, singing and laughing, because on Christmas Eve there would be parties and merrymakings.
Peter looked a tiny and rather desolate figure against the snow as he climbed the hill. There
was a long way to go. There would be Green Street at the top, past the post office, then down
again into the Square where the Tower was, then through winding turnings up the hill past the
gates and dark trees of The Man at Arms, then past the old wall of the town and along the wide
high road that runs above the sea until at last one struck the common, and, hidden in a black
clump of trees (so black on a night like this), the grim grey stones of Scaw House.

Peter was not afraid of being alone, although when snow had fallen everything seemed strange
and monstrous, the trees were like animals, and the paths of all the world were swept away.
But he was not afraid of ghosts; he was too accustomed to their perpetual company; old Frosted
Moses and Dicky, and even men like Stephen, had seen ghosts so often, and Peter himself could
tell odd stories about the Grey Hill--no, ghosts held no terror. But, very slowly, the shadow
of all that he must very soon go through was creeping about him. When he first came out of
The Bending Mule he still was as though he were in a dream. Everything that had happened there
that evening had been so strange, so amazing, that it belonged to the world of dreams--it was
of the very stuff of them, and that vision of Stephen, naked, bleeding, so huge and so terrible,
was not to be easily forgotten.

But, as he climbed the steep street, Peter knew that however great a dream that might be, there
was to be no dreaming at all about his meeting with his father, and old Frosted Moses' philosophy
would be very sadly needed. As he climbed the hill the reaction from the excitement of his
late adventure suddenly made him very miserable indeed, so that he had an immediate impulse
to cry, but he stood still in the middle of the street and made fists with his hands and called
himself "a damned gawky idiot," words that he had admired in the mouth of Sam Figgis some days
before. "Gawky" was certainly the last thing that he was, but it was a nice queer word, and
it helped him a great deal.

The worst of everything was that he had had a number of beatings lately and the world could
not possibly go on, as far as he was concerned, if he had many more. Every beating made matters
worse and his own desperate attempts to be good and to merit rewards rather than chastisement
met with no success. The hopeless fact of it all was that it had very little to do with his
own actions; his father behaved in the same way to every one, and Mrs. Trussit, the housekeeper,
old Curtis the gardener, Aunt Jessie, and all the servants, shook under his tongue and the
cold glitter of his eyes, and certainly the maids would long ago have given notice and departed
were it not that they were all afraid to face him. Peter knew that that was true, because Mrs.
Trussit had told him so. It was this hopeless feeling of indiscriminate punishment that made
everything so bad. Until he was eight years old Peter had not been beaten at all, but when
he was very young indeed he had learnt to crawl away when he heard his father's step, and he
had never cried as a baby because his nurse's white scared face had frightened him so. And
then, of course, there was his mother, his poor mother--that was another reason for silence.
He never saw his mother for more than a minute at a time because she was ill, had been ill
for as long as he could remember. When he was younger he had been taken into his mother's room
once or twice a week by Mrs. Trussit, and he had bent down and kissed that white tired face,
and he had smelt the curious smell in the room of flowers and medicine, and he had heard his
mother's voice, very far away and very soft, and he had crept out again. When he was older
his aunt told him sometimes to go and see his mother, and he would creep in alone, but he never
could say anything because of the whiteness of the room and the sense of something sacred like
church froze his speech. He had never seen his father and mother together.

His mornings were always spent with old Parlow, and in the afternoon he was allowed to ramble
about by himself, so that it was only at mealtimes and during the horrible half-hour after
supper before he went up to bed that he saw his father.

He really saw more of old Curtis the gardener, but half an hour with his father could seem
a very long time. Throughout the rest of his life that half-hour after supper remained at the
back of his mind--and he never forgot its slightest detail. The hideous dining-room with the
large photographs of old grandfather and grandmother Westcott in ill-fitting clothes and heavy
gilt frames, the white marble clock on the mantelpiece, a clock that would tick solemnly for
twenty minutes and then give a little run and a jump for no reason at all, the straight horsehair
sofa so black and uncomfortable with its hard wooden back, the big dining-room table with its
green cloth (faded a little in the middle where a pot with a fern in it always stood) and his
aunt with her frizzy yellow hair, her black mittens and her long bony fingers playing her interminable
Patience, and then two arm-chairs by the fire, in one of them old grandfather Westcott, almost
invisible beneath a load of rugs and cushions and only the white hairs on the top of his head
sticking out like some strange plant, and in the other chair his father, motionless, reading
the Cornish Times--last of all, sitting up straight with his work in front of him, afraid to
move, afraid to cough, sometimes with pins and needles, sometimes with a maddening impulse
to sneeze, always with fascinated glances out of the corner of his eye at his father--Peter
himself. How happy he was when the marble clock struck nine, and he was released! How snug
and friendly his little attic bedroom was with its funny diamond-paned window under the shelving
roof with all the view of the common and the distant hills that covered Truro! There, at any
rate, he was free!

He was passing now through the Square, and he stopped for an instant and looked up at the old
weather-beaten Tower that guarded one side of it, and looked so fine and stately now with the
white snow at its foot and the gleaming sheet of stars at its back. That old Tower had stood
a good number of beatings in its day--it knew well enough what courage was--and so Peter, as
he turned up the hill, squared his shoulders and set his teeth. But in some way that he was
too young to understand he felt that it was not the beating itself that frightened him most,
but rather all the circumstances that attended it--it was even the dark house, the band of
trees about it, that first dreadful moment when he would hear his knock echo through the passages,
and then the patter of Mrs. Trussit's slippers as she came to open the door for him--then Mrs.
Trussit's fat arm and the candle raised above her head, and "Oh, it's you, Mr. Peter," and
then the opening of the dining-room door and "It's Master Peter, sir," and then that vision
of the marble clock and his father's face behind the paper. These things were unfair and more
than any one deserved. He had had beatings on several occasions when he had merited no punishment
at all, but it did not make things any better that on this occasion he did deserve it; it only
made that feeling inside his chest that everything was so hopeless that nothing whatever mattered,
and that it was always more fun to be beaten for a sheep than a lamb, stronger than ever.

But the world--or at any rate the Scaw House portion of it--could not move in this same round
eternally. Something would happen, and the vague, half-confessed intention that had been in
his mind for some time now was a little more defined. One day, like his three companions, Tom
Jones, Peregrine Pickle and David Copperfield, he would run into the world and seek his fortune,
and then, afterwards, he would write his book of adventures as they had done. His heart beat
at the thought, and he passed the high gates and dark trees of The Man at Arms with quick step
and head high. He was growing old--twelve was an age--and there would soon be a time when beatings
must no longer be endured. He shivered when he thought of what would happen then--the mere
idea of defying his father sent shudders down his back, but he was twelve, he would soon be
thirteen....

But this Scaw House, with its strange silence and distresses, was only half his life. There
was the other existence that he had down in the town, out at Stephen's farm, wandering alone
on the Grey Hill, roaming about along the beach and in amongst the caves, tramping out to The
Hearty Cow, a little inn amongst the gorse, ten miles away, or looking for the lost church
among the sand-dunes at Porthperran. All these things had nothing whatever to do with his father
and old Parlow and his lessons--and it was undoubtedly this other sort of life that he would
lead, with the gipsies and the tramps, when the time came for him to run away. He knew no other
children of his own age, but he did not want them; he liked best to talk to old Curtis the
gardener, to Dicky the Idiot, to Sam Figgis when that splendid person would permit it--and,
of course, to Stephen.

He passed the old town wall and stepped out into the high road. Far below him was the sea,
above him a sky scattered with shining stars and around him a white dim world. Turning a corner
the road lay straight before him and to the right along the common was the black clump of trees
that hid his home. He discovered that he was very tired, it had been a most exhausting day
with old Parlow so cross in the morning and the scene in the inn at night--and now--!

His steps fell slower and slower as he passed along the road. One hot hand was clutching Parlow's
note and in his throat there was a sharp pain that made it difficult to swallow, and his eyes
were burning. Suppose he never went home at all! Supposing he went off to Stephen's farm!--it
was a long way and he might lose his way in the snow, but his heart beat like a hammer when
he thought of Stephen coming to the door and of the little spare room where Stephen put his
guests to sleep. But no--Stephen would not want him to-night; he would be very tired and would
rather be alone; and then there would be the morning, when it would be every bit as bad, and
perhaps worse. But if he ran away altogether? ... He stopped in the middle of the road and
thought about it--the noise of the sea came up to him like the march of men and with it the
sick melancholy moan of the Bell Rock, but the rest of the world was holding its breath, so
still it seemed. But whither should he run? He could not run so far away that his father could
not find him--his father's arm stretched to everywhere in the world. And then it was cowardly
to run away. Where was that courage of which he had been thinking so much? So he shook his
little shoulders and pulled up those stockings again and turned up the little side road, usually
so full of ruts and stones and now so level and white with the hard snow. Now that his mind
was made up, he marched forward with unfaltering step and clanged the iron gates behind him
so that they made a horrible noise, and stepped through the desolate garden up the gravel path.

The house looked black and grim, but there were lights behind the dining-room windows--it was
there that they were sitting, of course.

As he stood on his toes to reach the knocker a shooting star flashed past above his head, and
he could hear the bare branches of the trees knocking against one another in the wind that
always seemed to be whistling round the house. The noise echoed terribly through the building,
and then there was a silence that was even more terrible. He could fancy how his aunt would
start and put down her Patience cards for a moment and look, in her scared way, at the window--he
knew that his father would not move from behind his paper, and that there would be no other
sound unless his grandfather awoke. He heard Mrs. Trussit's steps down the passage, then locks
were turned, the great door swung slowly open, and he saw her, as he had pictured it, with
a candle in her hand raised above her head, peering into the dark.

"Oh! it's you, Master Peter," and she stood aside, without another word, to let him in. He
slipped past her, silently, into the hall and, after a second's pause, she followed him in,
banging the hall door behind her. Then she opened the dining-room door announcing, grimly,
"It's Master Peter come in, sir." The marble clock struck half-past ten as she spoke.

He stood just inside the door blinking a little at the sudden light and twisting his cloth
cap round and round in his hands. He couldn't see anything at first, and he could not collect
his thoughts. At last he said, in a very little voice:

"I've come back, father."

The lights settled before his eyes, and he saw them all exactly as he had thought they would
be. His father had not looked up from his paper, and Peter could see the round bald patch on
the top of his head. Aunt Jessie was talking to herself about her cards in a very agitated
whisper--"Now it's the King I want--how provoking! Ah, there's the seven of spades, and the
six and the five--oh dear! it's a club," and not looking up at all.

No one answered his remark, and the silence was broken by his grandfather waking up; a shrill
piping voice came from out of the rugs. "Oh! dear, what a doze I've had! It must be eight o'clock!
What a doze for an old man to have! on such a cold night too," and then fell asleep again immediately.

At last Peter spoke again in a voice that seemed to come from quite another person.

"Father--I've come back!"

His father very slowly put down his newspaper and looked at him as though he were conscious
of him for the first time. When he spoke it was as though his voice came out of the ceiling
or the floor because his face did not seem to move at all.

"Where have you been?"

"In the town, father."

"Come here."

He crossed the room and stood in front of the fire between his father and grandfather. He was
tremendously conscious of the grim and dusty cactus plant that stood on a little table by the
window.

"What have you been doing in the town?"

"I have been in The Bending Mule, father."

"Why did you not come home before?"

There was no answer.

"You knew that you ought to come home?"

"Yes, father. I have a letter for you from Mr. Parlow. He said that I was to tell you that
I have done my sums very badly this week and that I gave Willie Daffoll a bleeding nose on
Wednesday--"

"Yes--have you any excuse for these things?"

"No, father."

"Very well. You may go up to your room. I will come up to you there."

"Yes, father."

He crossed the room very slowly, closed the door softly behind him, and then climbed the dark
stairs to his attic.

II

He went trembling up to his room, and the match-box shook in his hand as he lit his candle.
It was only the very worst beatings that happened in his bedroom, his father's gloomy and solemn
study serving as a background on more unimportant occasions. He could only remember two other
beatings in the attics, and they had both been very bad ones. He closed his door and then stood
in the middle of the room; the little diamond-paned window was open and the glittering of the
myriad stars flung a light over his room and shone on the little bracket of books above his
bed (a Bible, an "Arabian Nights," and tattered copies of "David Copperfield," "Vanity Fair,"
"Peregrine Pickle," "Tom Jones," and "Harry Lorrequer"), on the little washing stand, a chest
of drawers, a cane-bottomed chair, and the little bed. There were no pictures on the walls
because of the sloping roof, but there were two china vases on the mantelpiece, and they were
painted a very bright blue with yellow flowers on them.

They had been given to Peter by Mrs. Flanders, the Rector's wife, who had rather a kind feeling
for Peter, and would have been friendly to him had he allowed her. He took off his jacket and
put it on again, he stood uncertainly in the middle of the floor, and wondered whether he ought
to undress or no. There was no question about it now, he was horribly, dreadfully afraid. That
wisdom of old Frosted Moses seemed a very long ago, and it was of very little use. If it had
all happened at once after he had come in then he might have endured it, but this waiting and
listening with the candle guttering was too much for him. His father was so very strong--he
had Peter's figure and was not very tall and was very broad in the back; Peter had seen him
once when he was stripped, and the thought of it always frightened him.

His face was white and his teeth would chatter although he bit his lips and his fingers shook
as he undressed, and his stud slipped and he could not undo his braces--and always his ears
were open for the sound of the step on the stairs.

At last he was in his night-shirt, and a very melancholy figure he looked as he stood shivering
in the middle of the floor. It was not only that he was going to be beaten, it was also that
he was so lonely. Stephen seemed so dreadfully far away and he had other things to think about;
he wondered whether his mother in that strange white room ever thought of him, his teeth were
chattering, so that his whole head shook, but he was afraid to get into bed because then he
might go to sleep and it would be so frightening to be woken by his father.

The clock downstairs struck eleven, and he heard his father's footstep. The door opened, and
his father came in holding in his hand the cane that Peter knew so well.

"Are you there?" the voice was very cold.

"Yes, father."

"Do you know that you ought to be home before six?"

"Yes, father."

"And that I dislike your going to The Bending Mule?"

"Yes, father."

"And that I insist on your doing your work for Mr. Parlow?"

"Yes, father."

"And that you are not to fight the other boys in the town?"

"Yes, father."

"Why do you disobey me like this?"

"I don't know. I try to be good."

"You are growing into an idle, wicked boy. You are a great trouble to your mother and myself."

"Yes, father. I want to be better."

Even now he could admire his father's strength, the bull-neck, the dark close-cropped hair,
but he was cold, and the blood had come where he bit his lip--because he must not cry.

"You must learn obedience. Take off your nightshirt."

He took it off, and was a very small naked figure in the starlight, but his head was up now
and he faced his father.

"Bend over the bed."

He bent over the bed, and the air from the window cut his naked back. He buried his head in
the counterpane and fastened his teeth in it so that he should not cry out....

During the first three cuts he did not stir, then an intolerable pain seemed to move through
his body--it was as though a knife were cutting his body in half. But it was more than that--there
was terror with him now in the room; he heard that little singing noise that came through his
father's lips--he knew that his father was smiling.

At the succeeding strokes his flesh quivered and shrank together and then opened again--the
pain was intolerable; his teeth met through the coverlet and grated on one another; but before
his eyes was the picture of Stephen slowly straightening himself before his enemy and then
that swinging blow--he would not cry. He seemed to be sharing his punishment with Stephen,
and they were marching, hand in hand, down a road lined with red-hot pokers.

His back was on fire, and his head was bursting and the soles of his feet were very, very cold.

Then he heard, from a long way away, his father's voice:

"Now you will not disobey me again."

The door closed. Very slowly he raised himself, but moving was torture; he put on his night-shirt
and then quickly caught back a scream as it touched his back. He moved to the window and closed
it, then he climbed very slowly on to his bed, and the tears that he had held back came, slowly
at first, and then more rapidly, at last in torrents. It was not the pain, although that was
bad, but it was the misery and the desolation and the great heaviness of a world that held
out no hope, no comfort, but only a great cloud of unrelieved unhappiness.

At last, sick with crying, he fell asleep.

III

The first shadow of light was stealing across the white undulating common and creeping through
the bare trees of the desolate garden when four dark figures, one tall, two fat, and one small,
stole softly up the garden path. They halted beneath the windows of the house; the snow had
ceased falling, and their breath rose in clouds above their heads. They danced a little in
the snow and drove their hands together, and then the tall figure said:

"Now, Tom Prother, out with thy musick." One of the fat figures felt in his coat and produced
four papers, and these were handed round.

"Bill, my son, it's for thee to lead off at thy brightest, mind ye. Let 'em have it praper."

The small figure came forward and began; at first his voice was thin and quavering, but in
the second line it gathered courage and rang out full and bold:

  As oi sat under a sicymore tree
    A sicymore tree, a sicymore tree,
  Oi looked me out upon the sea
    On Christ's Sunday at morn.

"Well for thee, lad," said the tall figure approvingly, "but the cold is creepin' from the
tips o' my fingers till my singin' voice is most frozen. Now, altogether."

And the birds in the silent garden woke amongst the ivy on the distant wall and listened:

  Oi saw three ships a-sailin' there--
    A sailin' there, a-sailin' there,
  Jesu, Mary, and Joseph they bare
    On Christ's Sunday at morn.

A small boy curled up, like the birds, under the roof stirred uneasily in his sleep and then
slowly woke. He moved, and gave a little cry because his back hurt him, then he remembered
everything. The voices came up to him from the garden:

