I was quickly by her side, but felt as little in the mood for talking as she did. Suddenly
a small lizard glided from the grass.

'The Romany Sap!' cried Sinfi, and she--the fearless woman before whom the stoutest Gypsy men
had quailed--sobbed wildly in terror. She soon recovered herself, and said: 'What a fool you
must think me, Hal! It wur all through talkin' about the Romany Sap. At fust I thought it wur
the Romany Sap itself, an' it wur only a poor little effet arter all. There ain't a-many things
made o' flesh and blood as can make Sinfi Lovell show the white feather; but I know you'll
think the wuss o' me arter this, Hal. But while the pictur were a-showin' I heard my dear mammy's
whisper: "Little Sinfi, little Sinfi, beware o' Gorgios! This is the one."'

V

By the time we reached the encampment it was quite dark. Panuel, and indeed most of the Gypsies,
had turned into the tents for the night; but both Videy Lovell and Rhona Boswell were moving
about as briskly as though the time was early morning, one with guile expressed in every feature,
the other shedding that aura of frankness and sweet winsomeness which enslaved Percy Aylwin,
and no wonder.

Rhona was in a specially playful mood, and came dancing round us more like a child of six than
a young woman with a Romany Rye for a lover.

But neither Sinfi nor I was in the mood for frolic. My living-waggon, which still went about
wherever the Lovells went, had been carefully prepared for me by Rhona, and I at once went
into it, not with the idea of getting much sleep, but in order to be alone with my thoughts.
What was I to think of my experiences of that evening? Was I really to take the spectacle that
had seemed to fall upon my eyes when listening to Sinfi's crwth, or rather when listening to
her song, as evidence that Winifred was alive? Oh, if I could, if I could! Was I really to
accept as true this fantastic superstition about the crwth and the spirits of Snowdon and the
'living mullo'? That was too monstrous a thought even for me to entertain. Notwithstanding
all that had passed in the long and dire struggle between my reason and the mysticism inherited
with the blood of two lines of superstitious ancestors, which circumstances had conspired to
foster, my reason had only been baffled and thwarted; it had not really been slain.

What, then, could be the explanation of the spectacle that had seemed to fall upon my eyes?
'It is hallucination,' I said, 'and it is the result of two very powerful causes--my own strong
imagination, excited to a state of feverish exaltation by the long strain of my suffering,
and that power in Sinfi which D'Arcy had described as her "half-unconscious power as a mesmerist."
At a moment when my will, weakened by sorrow and pain, lay prostrate beneath my own fevered
imagination, Sinfi's voice, so full of intense belief in her own hallucination, had leapt,
as it were, into my consciousness and enslaved my imagination, which in turn had enslaved my
will and my senses.'

For hours  I  argued this point with  myself, and I ended by coming to the conclusion that
it was 'my mind's eye' alone that saw the picture of Winifred.

But there was also another question to confront. What was the cause of Sinfi's astonishing
emotion after the vision vanished? Such a mingling of warring passions I had never seen before.
I tried to account for it. I thought about it for hours, and finally fell asleep without finding
any solution of the enigma.

I had no conversation of a private nature with Sinfi until the next evening, when the camp
was on the move.

'You had no sleep last night, Sinfi; I can see it by the dark circles round your eyes.'

'That's nuther here nor there, brother,' she said.

I found to my surprise that the Gypsies were preparing to remove the camp to a place not far
from Bettws y Coed. I suggested to Sinfi that we two should return to the bungalow. But she
told me that her stay there had come to an end. The firmness with which she made this announcement
made me sure that there was no appeal.

'Then,' said I, 'my living-waggon will come into use again. The camping place is near some
of the best trout streams in the neighbourhood, and I sadly want some trout-fishing.'

'We part company to-day, brother,' she said. 'We can't be pals no more--never no more.'

'Sister, I will not be parted from you: I shall follow you.'

'Reia--Hal Aylwin--you knows very well that any man, Gorgio or Romany, as followed Sinfi Lovell
when she told him not, 'ud ketch a body-blow as wouldn't leave him three hull ribs, nor a ounce
o' wind to bless hisself with.'

'But I am now one of the Lovells, and I shall go with you. I am a Romany myself--I mean I am
becoming more and more of a Romany every day and every hour. The blood of Fenella Stanley is
in us both.'

She looked at me, evidently astonished at the earnestness and the energy of my tone. Indeed
at that moment I felt an alien among Gorgios.

'I am now one of the Lovells,' I said, 'and I shall go with you.'

'We part company to-night, brother, fare ye well,' she said.

As she stood delivering this speech--her head erect, her eyes flashing angrily at me, her brown
fists tightly clenched, I knew that further resistance would be futile.

'But now I wants to be left alone,' she said.

She bent her head forward in a listening attitude, and I heard her murmur, 'I knowed it 'ud
come ag'in. A Romany sperrit likes to come up in the evenin' and smell the heather an' see
the shinin' stars come out.'

While she was speaking, she began to move off between the trees. But she turned, took hold
of both my hands, and gazed into my eyes. Then she moved away again, and I was beginning to
follow her. She turned and said: 'Don't follow me. There ain't no place for ye among the Romanies.
Go the ways o' the Gorgios, Hal Aylwin, an' let Sinfi Lovell go hern.'

As I leaned against a tree and watched Sinfi striding through the grass till she passed out
of sight, the entire panorama of my life passed before me.

'She has left me with a blessing after all,' I said; 'my poor Sinfi has taught me the lesson
that he who would fain be cured of the disease of a wasting sorrow must burn to ashes Memory.
He must flee Memory and never look back.'

VI

And did I flee Memory? When I re-entered the bungalow next day it was my intention to leave
it and Wales at once and for ever, and indeed to leave England at once--perhaps for ever, in
order to escape from the unmanning effect of the sorrowful brooding which I knew had become
a habit. 'I will now,' I said, 'try the nepenthe that all my friends in their letters are urging
me to try--I will travel. Yes, I will go to Japan. My late experiences should teach me that
Ja'afar's "Angel of Memory," who refashioned for him his dead wife out of his own sorrow and
tears, did him an ill service. He who would fain be cured of the disease of a wasting sorrow
should try to flee the "Angel of Memory," and never look back.'

And so fixed was my mind upon travelling that I wrote to several of my friends, and told them
of my intention. But I need scarcely say that as I urged them to keep the matter secret it
was talked about far and wide. Indeed, as I afterwards found to my cost, there were paragraphs
in the newspapers stating that the eccentric amateur painter and heir of one branch of the
Aylwins had at last gone to Japan, and that as his deep interest in a certain charming beauty
of an un-English type was proverbial, it was expected that he would return with a Japanese,
or perhaps a Chinese wife.

But I did not go to Japan; and what prevented me?

My reason told me that what I had just seen near Beddgelert was an optical illusion. I had
become very learned on the subject of optical illusions ever since I had known Sinfi Lovell,
and especially since I had seen that picture of Winnie in the water near Bettws y Coed, which
I have described in an earlier chapter. Every book I could get upon optical illusions I had
read, and I was astonished to find how many instances are on record of illusions of a much
more powerful kind than mine.

And yet I could not leave Snowdon. The mountain's very breath grew sweeter and sweeter of Winnie's
lips. As I walked about the hills I found myself repeating over and over again one of the verses
which Winnie used to sing to me as a child at Raxton.

       Eryri fynyddig i mi,
         Bro dawel y delyn yw,
       Lle mae'r defaid a'r wyn,
         Yn y mwswg a'r brwyn,
       Am cân inau'n esgyn i fyny,
         A'r gareg yn ateb i fyny, i fyny,
       O'r lle bu'r eryrod yn byw. I knew that among all the Gypsies Sinfi was almost the
only one who possessed that power which belonged once to her race,
that power which is expressed in a Scottish word now universally
misused, 'glamour,' the power which Johnnie Faa and his people
brought into play when they abducted Lady Casilis.

       Soon as they saw her well-faured face
         They cast the glamour oure her.

'Yes,' I said, 'I am convinced that my illusion is the result of two causes, my own brooding
over Winnie's tragedy and the glamour that Sinfi sheds around her, either consciously or unconsciously;
that imperious imagination of hers which projects her own visions upon the senses of another
person either with or without an exercise of her own will. This is the explanation, I am convinced.'

Wheresoever I now went, Snowdon's message to my heart was, 'She lives,' and my heart accepted
the message. And then the new blessed feeling that Winnie was not lying in a pauper grave had
an effect upon me that a few who read these pages will understand--only a few. Perhaps, indeed,
even those I am thinking of, those who, having lost the one being they loved, feel that the
earth has lost all its beauty--perhaps even these may not be able to sympathise fully with
me in this matter, never having had an experience remotely comparable with mine.

When I thought of Winifred lying at the bottom of some chasm in Snowdon, my grief was very
great, as these pages show. Yet it was not intolerable; it did not threaten to unseat my reason,
for even then, when I knew so little of the magic of y Wyddfa, I felt how close was the connection
between my darling and the hills that knew her and loved her. But during the time that her
death, amidst surroundings too appalling to contemplate, hung before my eyes in a dreadful
picture--during the time when it seemed certain that her death in a garret, her burial in a
pauper pit six coffins deep, was a hideous truth and no fancy, all the beauty with which Nature
seemed at one time clothed was wiped away as by a sponge. The earth was nothing more than a
charnel-house, the skies above it were the roof of the Palace of Nin-ki-gal. But now that Snowdon
had spoken to me, the old life which had formerly made the world so beautiful and so beloved
came back.

All nature seemed rich and glowing with the deep expectance of my heart. The sunrise and the
sunset seemed conscious of Winnie, and the very birds seemed to be warbling at times 'She's alive.'

I think, indeed, that I had passed into that sufistic ecstasy expressed by a writer often quoted
by my father, an Oriental writer, Ferridoddin--

       With love I burn: the centre is within me;
       While in a circle everywhere around me
       Its Wonder lies--

that exalted mood, I mean, described in the great chapter on the Renascence of Wonder which
forms the very core and heart-thought of the strange book so strangely destined to govern the
entire drama of my life, The Veiled Queen.

The very words of the opening of that chapter came to me:

'The omnipotence of love--its power of knitting together the entire universe--is, of course,
best understood by the Oriental mind. Just after the loss of my dear wife I wrote the following
poem called "The Bedouin Child," dealing with the strange feeling among the Bedouins about
girl children, and I translated it into Arabic. Among these Bedouins a father in enumerating
his children never counts his daughters, because a daughter is considered a disgrace.

       'Ilyàs the prophet, lingering 'neath the moon,
         Heard from a tent a child's heart-withering wail,
         Mixt with the message of the nightingale,
       And, entering, found, sunk in mysterious swoon,
       A little maiden dreaming there alone.
         She babbled of her father sitting pale
         'Neath wings of Death--'mid sights of sorrow and bale,
       And pleaded for his life in piteous tone.

       '"Poor child, plead on," the succouring prophet saith,
         While she, with eager lips, like one who tries
         To kiss a dream, stretches her arms and cries
       To Heaven for help--"Plead on; such pure love-breath,
       Beaching the Throne, might stay the wings of Death
         That, in the Desert, fan thy father's eyes."

       'The drouth-slain camels lie on every hand;
         Seven sons await the morning vultures' claws;
         'Mid empty water-skins and camel maws
       The father sits, the last of all the band.
       He mutters, drowsing o'er the moonlit sand,
         "Sleep fans my brow: sleep makes us all pashas;
         Or, if the wings are Death's, why Azraeel draws
       A childless father from an empty land."

       '"Nay," saith a Voice, "the wind of Azraeel's wings
         A child's sweet breath has stilled: so God decrees:"
         A camel's bell comes tinkling on the breeze.
       Filling the Bedouin's brain with bubble of springs
         And scent of flowers and shadow of wavering trees,
       Where, from a tent, a little maiden sings.

'Between this reading of Nature, which makes her but "the superficial film" of the immensity
of God, and that which finds a mystic heart of love and beauty beating within the bosom of
Nature herself, I know no real difference. Sufism, in some form or another, could not possibly
be confined to Asia. The Greeks, though strangers to the mystic element of that Beauty-worship
which in Asia became afterwards sufism, could not have exhibited a passion for concrete beauty
such as theirs without feeling that, deeper than Tartarus, stronger than Destiny and Death,
the great heart of Nature is beating to the tune of universal love and beauty.'

This was followed by a still more mystical poem called 'The Persian Slave Girl's Progress to
Paradise,' showing the Omnipotence of Love. [Footnote]

[Footnote: This poem of Philip Aylwin's appears now in the present writer's volume, The Coming
of Love.]

XIV

SINFI'S COUP DE THÉÂTRE

I

Weeks passed by. I visited all the scenes that were in the least degree associated with Winnie.

