"Nothing seems to be better substantiated and established than the circumfusion of the waters
of the deluge. The language of the Sacred Volume is clear and decisive on this point. Fifteen
cubits upwards did the waters prevail, and the mountains were covered.' The attestations to
this fact, in organic remains, are universal, and completely conclusive. In Italy entire skeletons
of whales have been found at an elevation of not less than one thousand two hundred feet above
the level of the Mediterranean. In a letter of the 5th May, 1830, to the Asiatic Society of
Calcutta, M. Gerard states, that he had collected shells among the snowy mountains of the frontiers
of Thibet: some of them were obtained on the crest of a pass, seventeen thousand feet above
the level of the sea. Here were also found fragments of rock, bearing impressions of shells,
detached from the contiguous peak rising far above the elevated level: generally, however,
it would appear, that the rocks from whence these shells were collected, rise to an altitude
of about sixteen thousand feet; one cliff was no less than a mile in perpendicular height above
the nearest level. M. Gerard continues, 'Just before crossing the boundary of Sudak into Bassalier,
I was exceedingly gratified by the discovery of a bed of fossil oysters clinging to the rock
as if they had been alive.' No doubt many of the rocks are in more sublime relief now, than
they were in the antediluvian world. The subsidence of the land and lower levels, and the action
of submarine currents would scoop out deep valleys; and no doubt, much that is now 'dry land,'
once formed the bed of the ocean. Alpine structures have emerged from the deep, and volcanoes
have heaped up elevations on mountains already lofty and sublime; as Cotopaxi, Antisana, and
Tunguragua, amid the range of the Cordilleras of the Andes. The Geological Society has a series
of ammonites from India. These fossils are objects of adoration to the Hindoos: they fall on
the S.W. side of the Himala mountains from an altitude which exceeds that of perpetual congelation:
they are picked up by the natives, and religiously preserved, being concealed as much as possible
from the scrutiny of Europeans. Mont Perdu, among the Appennines, which rise to an altitude
of eleven thousand feet above the sea's level, encloses an innumerable multitude of testacea:
and Humboldt found sea-shells among the Andes, fourteen thousand feet above the level of the
ocean. At Touraine, on the Continent, is a bed of shells which extends nearly twenty-seven
miles, having a depth of twenty feet. Mount Bolca contains upwards of one hundred species of
fish from the four quarters of the earth, and collected together in one immense assemblage."

(To be continued.)

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES UPON NOTES.

We abridge the following from a few Horticultural Notes on a Journey from Rome to Naples, in
March last, contributed to that excellent work, the Gardeners' Magazine, by W. Spence, Esq. F.L.S.

Italian Inn.--Mr. Spence says, "Our rooms at the inn at Capua, where we slept, opened on a
terraced garden, with orange trees, vines trained on arched trellises, marble fountains, &c.,
which, for ten shillings expense, might have been made very gay and attractive; but all was
forlornness and disorder, the beds untrimmed, and the walks littered with dirt. Two magnificent
plants of Opuntia vulgaris, which flanked one of the windows, the waiter said, were planted
there 'per pompa' (for pomp's sake); a motive, unfortunately, so often the leading one in Italy,
without any regard to the humbler ones of neatness and order."

Pontine Marshes.--Mr. Spence observes "the desolate aspect attributed to these twenty-four
miles of the road between Rome and Naples is one of the many exaggerations which prevail with
regard to Italy." He describes the surface as dead-flat, with occasional portions covered with
reeds, or overflowed with water, giving the whole a fenny character, yet, as happily, there
are no pollard willows, and the road runs the whole way between two rows of tall elm trees,
the general effect to the eye is not offensive, and far less repulsive than some parts of Holland
or Lincolnshire.

Italian Landscapes.--The absence of fine full-grown trees is the great defect of landscape
scenes in Italy, where you sometimes travel a hundred miles (as in Lombardy) without setting
eyes on a tree that has not been pollarded or lopped.

Palming.--In the north of Italy palm-trees are cultivated, to sell their leaves to the Romish
churches for Palm-Sunday.

Italian Climate.--The true Italian climate is confined to a very small portion of Italy, namely,
to some favoured spots on the western coast. Here the approximation of the Apennines to the
sea, at once keeps off the north and east winds, and reflecting the sun's rays, affords the
temperature which the orange, lemon, &c. require. The moment you recede from the coast, especially
if a very trifling elevation of ground takes place, farewell to oranges and lemons at least
in any perfection.

Sweet Lemon.--At Naples a curious variety of lemon is exposed in the streets for sale, having
externally the exact colour and shape of an orange, except that at the stalk end is a depression,
and on this a prominence, as in the lemon, but within having the pale pulp of the lemon, and
sweet juice.

Economy.--In the square of the town of Caserta, Mr. Spence saw exposed for sale bundles of
green lupine plants pulled up by the roots, and of the roots of couch grass, which we burn,
but which the Italians more wisely give as a saccharine and grateful food to horses.

Campagna Felice is the title given to the extensive tract of land which lies between the mountains
to the north-east of Caserta and Naples, and the Mediterranean. The whole is cultivated like
a garden: rows of lopped elms or poplars intersect the fields, at the distance of 40 or 50
feet between each row, to which vines are trained: and the intermediate space is occupied by
luxuriant wheat; lupines, pulled green for fodder; garden-beans; or ground prepared for ploughing
by two oxen, without a driver, for Indian corn, &c. This is one of the grand advantages of
the climate of Italy, that, while in northern Europe vast tracts of land are devoted to the
exclusive growth of barley for beer, the Italians obtain a far better beverage from the very
same land that supplies their bread corn, and without materially interfering with its produce:
for both the vines and the trees that support them are planted so deep as to consume only the
manure, which, in any case, would be washed away; and their slight shade is rather beneficial
than injurious to the crops below.

Fruit at Naples.--Mr. Spence saw in March grapes of several varieties, kept through the winter,
not much shrivelled, and quite free from mouldiness. Oranges in glorious profusion (chiefly
from Sorrento, fifteen miles distant,) and so cheap as to allow the poorest of the poor to
enjoy (what Dr. Johnson complained he had never had of peaches but once) their fill of them,
and that daily. The middle-sized ones (which are the best) sell at four for a grano, which
is at the rate of ten for a penny English; and the poor get twice as many of those beginning
to decay.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER. P.T.W.

Ice Water.--The Chinese rise at day-break, after a hard frost to gather ice, which they melt,
and carefully bottle up as a remedy for fever in the hot months. "Póh," said the marquess,
"I never trouble myself with anything that passes behind my back."

Epitaph in Wycombe Churchyard, 1688.

  Here lies one whose rest
    Gives me a restless life,
  Because I've lost a good
    And virtuous wyfe.

General Generalissimo.--Bayle tells us of a General of the Jesuits at Rome, once exulting of
his greatness and his order--who thus expressed himself to a friend:--"I will tell you, in
this very chamber, I govern Rome--what am I talking about? Rome! I govern all Italy--what do
I say? Italy! I govern Europe itself; and not Europe alone, but the whole world." P.T.W.

Classic Felony.--Sir John Hayward, was imprisoned by order of Queen Elizabeth, on account of
some things advanced in his Life and Reign of Henry IV. She applied to Bacon to see if he could
discover any passages that were treasonable, but his reply was, that "for treason he found
none, but for felony, very many," which he explained by saying, that the author had stolen
many sentences from Tacitus, and translated them into English. P.T.W.

A Likeness.--One of our old travellers on the continent, tells the following anecdote of a
capuchin preacher: The friar observed, that whenever he held forth to his congregation, a certain
man never failed to burst into tears, and continue weeping during the sermon. Supposing he
had touched the man's soul by the eloquence of his oratory, the friar, with much self-satisfaction,
one day ventured to inquire why he wept. W.G.C.

The Peerage.--The following is the number in each grade of the English peerage:--Dukes, 25;
Marquesses, 34; Earls, 142; Viscounts, 22; Barons, 125; Countess, 1; Viscountess, 1; and Baronesses,
4.

       *       *       *       *       *