Meanwhile Cook had had her worst spasm. We hung grimly on to the chute, dismally confident
that something would have to give way soon. Suddenly there was a rending sound; the seam of
the canvas ripped open and a gaping slit appeared, through which Cook's freed arm flapped wildly.
Then the arm disappeared as the body to which it was attached gathered momentum; and when Miss
Ropes appeared with a length of cord she was just in time to see her retainer return to the
world--alive, but practically inside out.

As soon as Cook recovered her breath it was apparent that her temper was no longer placid.
Forgetting entirely that it was by her own choice that she had made the trip, she gave us all
to understand that she believed the whole incident to have been specially arranged for her
humiliation. She gave notice on the spot, and staggered indignantly to the house to pack her
box, leaving her employer once again face to face with the Servant Problem.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ARTISETTE.

    (An Engineering School for Women
     has been started in Scotland.)

  What if my lady should appear
  In a mechanic's grimy gear?
  I shall not squeamishly decline
    To figure at her shrine.

  If Vulcan's smoky sway precludes
  An assignation in the woods,
  I shall not linger less elate
    Outside the foundry gate.

  When she knocks off at eventide
  I'll flutter fondly to her side,
  And demonstrate that grease and oil
    Can't loosen love's sweet coil.

  Most tenderly my tongue shall wag
  To Amaryllis on the slag,
  Whilst I endeavour to confine
    Her horny hand in mine.

       *       *       *       *       *

PERSONAL.

    "Pat. Don't be disappointed. Nothing amis. Iris."--Calcutta
    Statesman.

Only a letter gone astray.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Apartments (furnished and unfurnished) to be let, outside
    air radius."--Daily Telegraph.

A little suffocating, perhaps.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "If a million quarter acres in the country were left uncultivated,
    the result would be that a quarter of a million acres would be
    left uncultivated."--Scotch Paper.

Examined and found correct.

       *       *       *       *       *

Extract from a speech by Lord SELBORNE:--

    "In that ouse Capital was very fully represented--he thought
    over-represented."--Daily Telegraph.

The printer seems to have thought so too, when he cut the capital out.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

NIGHTMARES.

I.

    OF A FORM MASTER WHO DREAMS THAT HE HAS CALLED ON THE WAR
    CORRESPONDENT OF "THE DAILY MAIL" FOR A LITERAL TRANSLATION
    OF THE CÆSAR'S DE BELLO GALLICO.

"Omnis Gallia in tres partes divisa est." Is it fanciful to say of the three parts into which
all Gaul is divided that by their colours may they be known, the blue, the brown and the ghastly,
ghoulish, intolerable, bestial, but, thank God, passing, grey? Yes, thank God, the blight of
greyness cannot last long; even now the scabrous plague is being burnt up and swept back and
overwhelmed by the resistless flood, eager yet cautious, persistent yet fiery, of the blue
and the brown. Hideous, pitiable, soul-searing are the scars that it leaves in its mephitic
wake, but the cleansing tide of the brown and the blue sweeps on, and the healing wand of time
waves over them, and soon the shell-holes and the waste places and the abominations of desolation
are covered with little flowers--or would be if it were Spring.

The Spring! No one knows what depth of meaning lies in that little word for our brave fellows,
what intensity of hopes and fears and well-nigh intolerable yearnings it awakens beneath the
cheery insouciance of their exteriors; no one, that is, except me. They tell me about it as
they pass back, privates and generals, war-hardened veterans and boys of nineteen with the
youth in their eyes not yet drowned by the ever-increasing encroachments of the war-devil;
all are alike in their cheerful determination to see this grim and bloody business of fighting
to an honourable end, and alike, too, in that their souls turn frankly, as might children's,
for refreshment and relief to the kindly breast and simple beauties of Mother Nature.

The key-note of their attitude is given in the sentence, spoken dreamily and as if in forgetfulness
of my presence, by a Corporal of the R.G.A. as I cleaned his boots--it was an honour. "The
blue--the blue--the blue--and the white!"

He was gazing skywards. I could see nothing but grey clouds, but I knew that his young eyes
were keener than mine, that he had learnt to look into the inmost heart of things in that baptism
of fire, that travail of freedom, where desolation blossoms and hell sprouts like a weed. Through
the grey he could discern the triumph of the blue and the white of peace, when the work of
the brown shall be done. It was an allegory. More he told me, too, in his simple country speech,
so good to hear in a foreign land: of the daisies in the yard at home, of the dandelions on
the lawn, of his pet pig: things too sacred to repeat here. And he told me that the great event
on the Front now is the Autumn glory of the trees. Then he departed, and as he went he broke
into deep-throated, Homeric laughter, and I--I understood: he was mocking Death. Even thus
does laughter yap at the heels of that dishonoured king out here.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO THE BOOD.

A SODDET.

    [Our poet has caught a severe cold through
     having spent the night in the cellar.]

  BOOD, whose autubdal spleddour, as of dood,
   Shides od frob set of sud to dawdigg bord,
  Gradt be this bood, o bood, to calb by bood
   With agodisigg apprehedsiod tord,

  Illube dot with thy beabs the biddight burk,
   Whed through the gloob the Huddish biscreadts
  Cobe sdeakigg, bedt od their idhubad work
   Of bobbigg slubberigg dod-cobbatadts.

  Or if thy labbedt gleabs thou bayst dot blidd,
   Thed bay they aid our airbed add our guds;
  Its bark bay every barkigg bissile fidd,
   Bay dought be dode abiss, dor dode be duds.

  So bayst thou baffle burderous WILLIAB'S plad,
   Add all attebts of that bad badbad bad.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Monday, November 5th.--By way of celebrating Guy Fawkes Day the Government announced their
intention of compensating, up to a limit of five hundred pounds, any householder whose property
has been damaged in air-raids. How soon he will cage his "monkey" will depend upon the Treasury,
which is morbidly anxious lest in its transactions bis dat qui cito dat should be literally
illustrated.

The official price of potatoes is still unsettled. According to his own statement the FOOD
CONTROLLER is only waiting for the decision of the War Cabinet. "On the contrary," said Mr.
LAW, "the Cabinet is only waiting for Lord RHONDDA." It seems to be another case of the Earl
of CHATHAM and Sir RICHAUD STRACHAN; and in the meantime the potatoes are rotting.

Provided that no scarcity of gas for other purposes is caused the Government see no objection
to its use for the propulsion of motor-cars. On receiving this information Mr. PEMBERTON BILLING
at once ordered a Zeppelin attachment to his famous torpedo-shaped car. No other gas-consumer
will suffer, as he is prepared to keep the apparatus inflated from his own retorts.

By the scheme of the Boundary Commissioners, the roll of the Commons, already a hundred per
cent. too big for its accommodation, is to be increased by some thirty Members. Various suggestions
for enabling the new-comers to assist at debates have been proposed. "Dug-outs" under the existing
benches, whence they could poke out their heads between the legs of other Members, and "painters'
cradles" depending from the ceiling, or the galleries, are among the most popular.

In the circumstances it is not surprising that the HOME SECRETARY strenuously resisted the
proposal of the London representatives to give another couple of Members to "the hub of the
universe," as Mr. WATT, momentarily forgetting the claims of Glasgow, handsomely called it.
Among a number of minor concessions, Mr. THEODORE TAYLOR'S plea that Batley should be associated
with Morley "because they have had many a tussle at cricket" could not be resisted.

Tuesday, November 6th.--A statement that the great War Savings meeting at the Albert Hall cost
£3,500, chiefly for the expenses of delegates, shocked the thrifty conscience of Mr. HOGGE,
who hoped Mr. BALDWIN would discourage the PRIME MINISTER'S meetings if they were so expensive.
Mr. BALDWIN did not condescend to answer him or he might have observed that the delegates in
question were voluntary workers who by their exertions had helped to raise over a hundred millions
for the prosecution of the War.

Mr. TILLETT, the newly-elected Member for North Salford, took his seat, and there was general
cheering as, under the safe-conduct of two amply-proportioned friends, Little Ben was introduced
to Big Ben.

When Mr. BALFOUR informed Mr. JOWETT at Question-time that the only commitments of Great Britain
to France are contained in the Treaty of Alliance of September 5th, 1914, which has been duly
published, he knocked the foundation from under the subsequent peace-debate. But that did not
prevent Mr. LEES SMITH from making a long speech, on the assumption that by promising to help
France to recover her ravished provinces we had improperly extended the objects of the war.
Mr. MCCURDY, who shares with Mr. LEES SMITH the representation of Northampton, plainly hinted
that if his colleague cared to visit his constituents they would be delighted to present him
with a specimen of the local manufacture.

The speeches of Mr. BALFOUR and Mr. ASQUITH, though well worth hearing, were hardly needed
to complete the rout of the Pacifists; and, in the division on the Closure, the men who are
prepared (in Mr. FABER'S pungent phrase) "to take the bloody hand of Germany" made a very poor
muster.

Wednesday, November 7th.--I am inclined to echo Lord SALISBURY'S regret that Labour has no
direct representative in the Upper House. The proletarian peer, if there were one, would have
been both surprised and delighted to hear how the non-proletarians, without exception, spoke
of his class.

My imaginary peer would have been especially edified by the speech of Lord MILNER, whom a small
but noisy section of the Press persists in describing as more Prussian than the Prussians.
Not under-estimating the difficulties in the way of a frank and full understanding between
Capital and Labour, he nevertheless believed that they would be overcome, because he had an
abiding faith in the mass of his fellow-countrymen. Not quite what one expects of a British
Junker, is it?

Thursday, November 8th.--When tonnage is so scarce it seems odd that room can still be found
for consignments of wild animals. Mr. PETO drew attention to a coming cargo, including two
hundred avadavats, the little birds about which Joseph Surface was so contemptuous, and six
hundred monkeys--"sufficient," as he pleasantly observed, "to fill this House."

For once Mr. BILLING expressed a widely-held opinion when he questioned the propriety, in present
circumstances, of holding the LORD MAYOR'S Banquet. Mr. BONAR LAW'S solemn assurance that he
only accepted the invitation on the distinct understanding that the feast would fall completely
within the FOOD CONTROLLER'S regulations, was not altogether convincing. Members were anxious
to know the exact dimensions that Lord RHONDDA has laid down for the turtle-ration.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

GILBERT.

We are all very fond of Gilbert. There are, however, one or two things about him which even
his best friends will admit make it hard for us at times to remember how much we really love
him. Sometimes he seems almost too good to be true. Yet I have known wet horrible days in the
trenches when the sight of him coming smiling down the line, exuding efficiency and enthusiasm
at every pore, has made his fellow-officers positively dislike him.

For, alas, he is one of those dear overzealous fellows whom in moments of depression we stigmatise
as "hearty." He has even been known to be hearty at breakfast; to come trampling into the dug-out
with that blinking old smile on his face, expressing immense satisfaction with life in general
at the top of a peculiarly robust voice; to tread on his captain's toes and slap his next-door
neighbour heartily on the back, and then to explain to a swearing and choking audience how
splendidly he has slept, and what a topping day it is going to be.

Never has Gilbert been known to spend a bad night; he is one of those fortunate animals who
can go to sleep standing and at five minutes' notice, and start snoring at once. If you try
to sleep anywhere near him, you dream of finding yourself in Covent Garden station, trying
to board endless trains which roar through without stopping--that's the kind of snore it is.

And now it is time I told my story.

It happened many years ago, when the War was young and the Bosch comparatively aggressive;
when our big guns fired once every other Sunday and we lived precarious lives in holes in the
ground. Our Brigadier, a conscientious soldier of the old school, was dodging round our line
of trenches, and had just reached the sector allotted to my company, which was also Gilbert's,
when the distant buzz that generally means an aeroplane overhead made itself distinctly heard.

"Can you spot him?" said the General to his Brigade-major; "one of theirs, I suppose?"

Now it is as much as a Brigade-Major's job is worth to confess ignorance at such a crisis.
So, after sweeping the skies fruitlessly with his glasses and listening intelligently to the
steady drone, he said, "Yes!" with as much conviction as possible.

"Heads down," said the General sharply, "and don't move. Pass it down." And by way of example
he sat heavily on my periscope and stayed gazing at the ground like a fakir lost in meditation.

Meanwhile the message was passed along, and the trench became silent as the grave. I was informed
a few days later that it reached the outer battalion of the next brigade later on in the morning,
and was popularly supposed to have reached Switzerland the same evening.

For about five minutes the droning continued ("Having a good look at us," said the Brigade-major
in a sepulchral whisper) and then suddenly ceased with what I can only describe as an appalling
snort. Almost simultaneously a tousled head was thrust out of a dug-out almost into the great
man's face, and Gilbert's cheerful roar was heard by a scandalised company.

"Had a topping sleep. What's the time, someone?"

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Best milch cows have been sold recently for £60 in the Isle
    of Wight. At a meeting of the Cowes Council it was stated
    that at Chichester cows had sold for £73 each."--Times.

And now that the Isle of Wight milkers have held their indignation meeting it is expected that
the anomaly will be removed.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

PETER, THE TEMPTER.

