The conquest of Ireland was followed by that terrible code against the Catholics, the last
remnant of which is now obliterated from our statute-book. It is singular that this savage
proscription should have been the work of the party at whose head stood the champion of toleration.
The account which Mr Burke has given of it, and for the accuracy of which he appeals to Bishop
Burnet, does not entirely coincide with the view taken by Dr Arnold.

Whether Dr Arnold's theory be applicable or not to this particular case, it furnishes but too
just a solution of Irish misgovernment in general. It is, that excessive severity toward conquered
rebels, is by no means inconsistent with the principles of free government, or even with the
triumph of a democracy. The truth of this fact is extorted from us by all history, and may
be accounted for first, by the circumstance, that large bodies of men are less affected than
individuals, by the feelings of shame and a sense of responsibility; and, secondly, that conduct
the most selfish and oppressive, the mere suspicion of which would be enough to brand an individual
with everlasting infamy, assumes, when adopted by popular assemblies, the air of statesmanlike
wisdom and patriotic inflexibility. The main cause of the difference with which the lower orders
in France and England regarded the Revolution in their respective countries, is to be found
in the different nature of the evils which they were intended to remove. The English Revolution
was merely political--the French was social also; the benefits of the Bill of Rights, great
and inestimable as they were, were such as demanded some knowledge and reflection to appreciate--they
did not come home directly to the business and bosom of the peasant; it was only in rare and
great emergencies that he could become sensible of the rights they gave, or of the means of
oppression they took away: while the time-honoured dwellings of the Cavendishes and Russells
were menaced and assailed, nothing but the most senseless tyranny could render the cottage
insecure; but the abolition of the seignorial rights in France, free communication between
her provinces, equal taxation, impartial justice--these were blessings which it required no
economist to illustrate, and no philosopher to explain. Every labourer in France, whose sweat
had flowed for the benefit of others, whose goods had been seized by the exactors of the Taille
and the Gabelle,[1] the fruits of whose soil had been wasted because he was not allowed to
sell them at the neighbouring market, whose domestic happiness had been polluted, or whose
self-respect had been lowered by injuries and insults, all retribution for which was hopeless,
might well be expected to value these advantages more than life itself. But when the principles
of the Revolution were triumphant, and the House of Brunswick finally seated on the throne
of this country, it remains to be seen what were, during the eighteenth century, the fruits
of this great and lasting victory. The answer is a melancholy one. Content with what had been
achieved, the nation seems at once to have abandoned all idea of any further moral or intellectual
progress. In private life the grossest ignorance and debauchery were written upon our social
habits, in the broadest and most legible characters. In public life, we see chicanery in the
law, apathy in the Church, corruption in Parliament, brutality on the seat of justice; trade
burdened with a great variety of capricious restrictions; the punishment of death multiplied
with the most shocking indifference; the state of prisons so dreadful, that imprisonment--which
might be, and in those days often was, the lot of the most innocent of mankind--became in itself
a tremendous punishment; the press virtually shackled; education every where wanted, and no
where to be found.

     [1] "Taille and the Gabelle." Sully thus describes these
     fertile sources of crime and misery:--"Taille, source
     principale d'abus et de vexations de toute espèce, sans sa
     repartition et sa perception. Il est bien à souhaiter, mais pas
     à espérer, qu'on change un jour en entier le fond de cette
     partie des revenus. Je mets la Gabelle de niveau avec la
     Taille. Je n'ai jamais rien trouvé de si bizarrement
     tyrannique que de faire acheter à un particulier, plus de sel
     qu'il n'en veut et n'en peut consommer, et de lui défendre
     encore de revendre ce qu'il a de trop."

The laws that were passed resemble the edicts of a jealous, selfish, and even vindictive oligarchy,
rather than institutions adopted for the common welfare, by the representatives of a free people.
Turn to any of the works which describe the manners of the age, from the works of Richardson
or Fielding, to the bitter satire of Churchill and the melancholy remonstrances of Cowper,
and you are struck with the delineation of a state and manners, and a tone of feeling which,
in the present day, appears scarcely credible. "'Sdeath, madam, do you threaten me with the
law?" says Lovelace to the victim of his calculating and sordid violence. Throughout the volumes
of these great writers, the features perpetually recur of insolence, corruption, violence,
and debauchery in the one class, and of servility and cunning in the other. It is impossible
for the worst quality of an aristocracy--nominally, to be sure, subject to the restraint of
the law, but practically, almost wholly exempt from its operation--to be more clearly and more
fearfully represented. The South Sea scheme, the invasion of Scotland, the disgraceful expeditions
on the coast of France; the conduct of Lord George Sackville at Minden, the miserable attempt
on Carthagena, the loss of Minorca, the convention of Closterseven, the insecurity of the high-roads,
nay, of the public streets in the metropolis itself, all serve to show the deplorable condition
into which the nation was fast sinking, abroad and at home, when the "Great Commoner" once
more aroused its energies, concentrated its strength, and carried it to a higher pinnacle of
glory than it has ever been the lot even of Great Britain to attain. Yet this effect was transient--the
progress of corruption was checked, but the disease still lurked in the heart, and tainted
the life-blood of the community. The orgies of Medmenham Abbey, the triumphs of Wilkes, and
the loss of America, bear fatal testimony to the want of decency and disregard of merit in
private as well as public life which infected Great Britain, polluting the sources of her domestic
virtues, and bringing disgrace upon her arms and councils during the greater part of the eighteenth
century. It is with a masterly review of this period of our history that Dr Arnold closes his
analysis of the three last centuries. His remaining lecture is dedicated to the examination
of historical evidence--a subject on which it is not our present intention to offer any commentary.

To trace effects to their causes, is the object of all science; and by this object, as it is
accomplished or incomplete, the progress of any particular science must be determined. The
order of the moral is in reality as immutable as the laws of the physical world; and human
actions are linked to their consequences by a necessity as inexorable as that which controls
the growth of plants or the motion of the earth, though the connexion between cause and effect
is not equally discernible. The depression of the nobles and the rise of the commons in England,
after the statutes of alienation, were the result of causes as infallible in their operation
as those which regulate the seasons and the tides. Repeated experiments have proved beyond
dispute, that gold is heavier than iron. Is the superior value of gold to iron a fact more
questionable? Yet is value a quality purely moral, and absolutely dependent on the will of
man. The events of to-day are bound to those of yesterday, and those of to-morrow will be bound
to those of to-day, no less certainly than the harvest of the present year springs from the
grain which is the produce of former harvests. When by a severe and diligent analysis we have
ascertained all the ingredients of any phenomenon, and have separated it from all that is foreign
and adventitious, we know its true nature, and may deduce a general law from our experiment;
for a general law is nothing more than an expression of the effect produced by the same cause
operating under the same circumstances. In the reign of Louis XV., a Montmorency was convicted
of an atrocious murder. He was punished by a short imprisonment in the Bastile. His servant
and accomplice was, for the same offence at the same time, broken alive upon the wheel. Is
the proposition, that the angles of a triangle are equal to two right angles, more certain
than the ruin of a system under which such a state of things was tolerated? How, then, does
it come to pass, that the same people who cling to one set of truths reject the other with
obstinate incredulity? Cicero shall account for it:--"Sensus nostros non parens, non nutrix,
non poeta, non scena depravat; animis omnes tendentur insidiæ." The discoveries of physical
science, in the present day at least, allow little scope to prejudice and inclination. Whig
and Tory, Radical and Conservative, agree, that fire will burn and water suffocate; nay, no
tractarian, so far as we know, has ventured to call in question the truths established by Cuvier
and La Place. But every proposition in moral or political science enlists a host of feelings
in zealous support or implacable hostility; and the same system, according to the creed and
prepossessions of the speaker, is put forward as self-evident, or stigmatized as chimerical.
One set of people throw corn into the river and burn mills, in order to cheapen bread--another
vote that sixteen shillings are equal to twenty-one, in order to support public credit--proceedings
in no degree more reasonable than a denial that two and two make four, or using gunpowder instead
of water to stop a conflagration. Again, in physical science, the chain which binds the cause
to its effect is short, simple, and passes through no region of vapour and obscurity; in moral
phenomena, it is long hidden and intertwined with the links of ten thousand other chains, which
ramify and cross each other in a confusion which it requires no common patience and sagacity
to unravel. Therefore it is that the lessons of history, dearly as they have been purchased,
are forgotten and thrown away--therefore it is that nations sow in folly and reap in affliction--that
thrones are shaken, and empires convulsed, and commerce fettered by vexatious restrictions,
by those who live in one century, without enabling their descendants to become wiser or richer
in the next. The death of Charles I. did not prevent the exile of James II., and, in spite
of the disasters of Charles XII., Napoleon tempted fortune too often and too long. It is not,
then, by the mere knowledge of separate facts that history can contribute to our improvement
or our happiness; it would then exchange the character of philosophy treated by examples, for
that of sophistry misleading by empiricism. The more systematic the view of human events which
it enables us to gain, the more nearly does it approach its real office, and entitle itself
to the splendid panegyric of the Roman statesman--"Historia, testis temporum, lux veritatis,
vita memoriæ, magistra vitæ, nuntia vetustatis."

But while we insist upon the certainty of those truths which a calm examination of history
confirms, and the sure operation of those general laws by which Providence in its wisdom has
ordained that the affairs of this lower world shall be controlled--let it not be supposed that
we for a moment doubt the truth which Demosthenes took such pains to inculcate upon his countrymen,
that fortune in human affairs is for a time omnipotent. That fortune, which "erring men call
chance," is the name which finite beings must apply to those secret and unknown causes which
no human sagacity can penetrate or comprehend. What depends upon a few persons, observes Mr
Hume, is to be ascribed to chance; what arises from a great number, may often be accounted
for by known and determinate causes; and he illustrates this position by the instance of a
loaded die, the bias of which, however it may for a short time escape detection, will certainly
in a great number of instances become predominant. The issue of a battle may be decided by
a sunbeam or a cloud of dust. Had an heir been born to Charles II. of Spain--had the youthful
son of Monsieur De Bouillé not fallen asleep when Louis XVI. entered Varennes--had Napoleon,
on his return from Egypt, been stopped by an English cruizer--how different would have been
the face of Europe. The poco di piu and poco di meno has, in such contingencies, an unbounded
influence. The trade-winds are steady enough to furnish grounds for the most accurate calculation;
but will any man in our climate venture to predict from what quarter, on any particular day,
the wind may chance to blow?

Therefore, in forming our judgment of human affairs, we must apply a "Lesbian rule," instead
of one that is inflexible. Here it is that the line is drawn between science, and the wisdom
which has for its object the administration of human affairs. The masters of science explore
a multitude of phenomena to ascertain a single cause; the statesman and legislator, engaged
in pursuits "hardliest reduced to axiom," examine a multitude of causes to explain a solitary
phenomenon. The investigations, however, to which such questions lead, are singularly difficult,
as they require an accurate analysis of the most complicated class of facts which can possibly
engross our attention, and to the complete examination of which the faculties of any one man
must be inadequate. The finest specimens of such enquiries which we possess are the works of
Adam Smith and Montesquieu. The latter, indeed, may be called a great historian. He sought
in every quarter for his account of those fundamental principles which are common to all governments,
as well as of those peculiarities by which they are distinguished one from another. The analogy
which reaches from the first dim gleam of civility to the last and consummate result of policy
and intelligence, from the law of the Salian Franks to the Code Napoleon, it was reserved for
him to discover and explain. He saw that, though the shape into which the expression of human
thought and will was moulded as the family became a tribe, and the tribe a nation, might be
fantastic and even monstrous--that the staple from which it unrolled itself must be the same.
Treading in the steps of Vico, he more than realized his master's project, and in his immortal
work (which, with all its faults, is a magnificent, and as yet unrivalled, trophy of his genius,
and will serve as a landmark to future enquirers when its puny critics are not known enough
to be despised) he has extracted from a chaos of casual observations, detached hints--from
the principles concealed in the intricate system of Roman jurisprudence, or exposed in the
rules which barely held together the barbarous tribes of Gaul and Germany--from the manners
of the polished Athenian, and from the usages of the wandering Tartar--from the rudeness of
savage life, and the corruptions of refined society--a digest of luminous and coherent evidence,
by which the condition of man, in the different stages of his social progress, is exemplified
and ascertained. The loss of the History of Louis XI.--a work which he had projected, and of
which he had traced the outline--is a disappointment which the reader of modern history can
never enough deplore.

The province of science lies in truths that are universal and immutable; that of prudence in
second causes that are transient and subordinate. What is universally true is alone necessarily
true--the knowledge that rests in particulars must be accidental. The theorist disdains experience--the
empiric rejects principle. The one is the pedant who read Hannibal a lecture on the art of
war; the other is the carrier who knows the road between London and York better than Humboldt,
but a new road is prescribed to him and his knowledge becomes useless. This is the state of
mind La Fontaine has described so perfectly in his story of the "Cierge."

    "Un d'eux, voyant la brique au feu endurcie
    Vaincre l'effort des ans, il eut la même envie;
    Et nouvel Empédocle, aux flammes condamné
        Par sa pure et propre folie,
    Il se lança dédans--ce fût mal raisonné,
    Le Cierge ne savait grain de philosophie."

The mere chemist or mathematician will apply his truths improperly; the man of detail, the
mere empiric, will deal skilfully with particulars, while to all general truths he is insensible.
The wise man, the philosopher in action, will use the one as a stepping-stone to the other,
and acquire a vantage-ground from whence he will command the realms of practice and experience.

History teems with instances that--although the general course of the human mind is marked
out, and each succeeding phasis in which it exhibits itself appears inevitable--the human race
cannot be considered, as Vico and Herder were, perhaps, inclined to look upon it, as a mass
without intelligence, traversing its orbit according to laws which it has no power to modify
or control.

Man is no doubt the instrument, but the unconscious instrument, of Providence; and for the
end they propose to themselves, though not for the result which they attain, nations as well
as individuals are responsible. Otherwise, why should we read or speak of history? it would
be the feverish dream of a distempered imagination, full of incoherent ravings, a disordered
chaos of antagonist illusions--

        ----"A tale
    Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
    Signifying nothing."

But on the contrary, it is in history that the lessons of morality are delivered with most
effect. The priest may provoke our suspicion--the moralist may fail to work in us any practical
conviction; but the lessons of history are not such as vanish in the fumes of unprofitable
speculation, or which it is possible for us to mistrust, or to deride. In all historical writers,
philosophical or trivial, sacred or profane, from the meagre accounts of the monkish chronicler,
no less than from the pages stamped with all the indignant energy of Tacitus, gleams forth
the light which, amid surrounding gloom and injustice, amid the apparent triumph of evil, discovers
the influence of that power which the heathens personified as Nemesis. Her tread, indeed, is
often noiseless--her form may be long invisible--but the moment at length arrives when the
measure of forbearance is complete; the echoes of her step vibrate upon the ear, her form bursts
upon the eye, and her victim--be it a savage tyrant, or a selfish oligarchy, or a hypocritical
church, or a corrupt nation--perishes.

        "Come quei che va di notte,
    Che porta il lume dietro, e a se non giova,
    Ma dopo se fa le persone dotte."

And as in daily life we rejoice to trace means directed to an end, and proofs of sagacity and
instinct even among the lower tribes of animated nature, with how much greater delight do we
seize the proofs vouchsafed to us in history of that eternal law, by which the affairs of the
universe are governed? How much more do we rejoice to find that the order to which physical
nature owes its existence and perpetuity, does not stop at the threshold of national life--that
the moral world is not fatherless, and that man, formed to look before and after, is not abandoned
to confusion and insecurity?

Fertile and comprehensive indeed is the domain of history, comprising the whole region of probabilities
within its jurisdiction--all the various shapes into which man has been cast--all the different
scenes in which he has been called upon to act or suffer; his power and his weakness, his folly
and his wisdom, his virtues in their meridian height, his vices in the lowest abyss of their
degradation, are displayed before us, in their struggles, vicissitudes, and infinitely diversified
combinations: an inheritance beyond all price--a vast repository of fruitful and immortal truths.
There is nothing so mean or so dignified; nothing so obscure or so glorious; no question so
abstruse, no problem so subtile, no difficulty so arduous, no situation so critical, of which
we may not demand from history an account and elucidation. Here we find all that the toil,
and virtues, and sufferings, and genius, and experience, of our species have laboured for successive
generations to accumulate and preserve. The fruit of their blood, of their labour, of their
doubts, and their struggles, is before us--a treasure that no malignity can corrupt, or violence
take away. And above all, it is here that, when tormented by doubt, or startled by anomalies,
stung by disappointment, or exasperated by injustice, we may look for consolation and encouragement.
As we see the same events, that to those who witnessed them must have appeared isolated and
capricious, tending to one great end, and accomplishing one specific purpose, we may learn
to infer that those which appear to us most extraordinary, are alike subservient to a wise
and benevolent dispensation. Poetry, the greatest of all critics has told us, has this advantage
over history, that the lessons which it furnishes are not mixed and confined to particular
cases, but pure and universal. Studied, however, in this spirit, history, while it improves
the reason, may satisfy the heart, enabling us to await with patience the lesson of the great
instructor, Time, and to employ the mighty elements it places within our reach, to the only
legitimate purpose of all knowledge--"The advancement of God's glory, and the relief of man's
estate."

       *       *       *       *       *

POEMS AND BALLADS OF SCHILLER.

No. V.

THE VICTORY FEAST.

[This noble lyric is perhaps the happiest of all those poems in which Schiller has blended
the classical spirit with the more deep and tender philosophy which belongs to modern romance.
The individuality of the heroes introduced is carefully preserved. The reader is every where
reminded of Homer; and yet, as a German critic has observed, there is an under current of sentiment
which betrays the thoughtful Northern minstrel. This detracts from the art of the Poem viewed
as an imitation, but constitutes its very charm as an original composition.

    And Calchas, while the altars blaze,
      Invokes the high gods to their feast!
    On Pallas, mighty or to raise
      Or shatter cities, call'd the Priest--
    And Him, who wreathes around the land
      The girdle of his watery world,
    And Zeus, from whose almighty hand
      The terror and the bolt are hurl'd.
      Success at last awards the crown--
        The long and weary war is past;
        Time's destined circle ends at last--
      And fall'n the Mighty Town!

    The Son of Atreus, king of men,
      The muster of the hosts survey'd,
    How dwindled from the thousands, when
      Along Scamander first array'd!
    With sorrow and the cloudy thought,
      The Great King's stately look grew dim--
    Of all the hosts to Ilion brought,
      How few to Greece return with him!
      Still let the song to gladness call,
        For those who yet their home shall greet!--
        For them the blooming life is sweet:
      Return is not for all!

    Nor all who reach their native land
      May long the joy of welcome feel--
    Beside the household gods may stand
      Grim Murther with awaiting steel;
    And they who 'scape the foe, may die
      Beneath the foul familiar glaive.
    Thus He[2] to whose prophetic eye
      Her light the wise Minerva gave:--
      "Ah! blest whose hearth, to memory true,
        The goddess keeps unstain'd and pure--
        For woman's guile is deep and sure,
      And Falsehood loves the New!"

    The Spartan eyes his Helen's charms,
      By the best blood of Greece recaptured;
    Round that fair form his glowing arms--
      (A second bridal)--wreathe enraptured.
    "Woe waits the work of evil birth--
      Revenge to deeds unblest is given!
    For watchful o'er the things of earth,
      The eternal Council-Halls of Heaven.
      Yes, ill shall ever ill repay--
        Jove to the impious hands that stain
        The Altar of Man's Hearth, again
      The doomer's doom shall weigh!"

    "Well they, reserved for joy to day,"
      Cried out Oïleus' valiant son,
    "May laud the favouring gods who sway
      Our earth, their easy thrones upon;
    Without a choice they mete our doom,
      Our woe or welfare Hazard gives--
    Patroclus slumbers in the tomb,
      And all unharm'd Thersites lives.
      While luck and life to every one
        Blind Fate dispenses, well may they
        Enjoy the life and luck to day
      By whom the prize is won!

    "Yes, war will still devour the best!--
      Brother, remember'd in this hour!
    His shade should be in feasts a guest,
      Whose form was in the strife a tower!
    What time our ships the Trojan fired,
      Thine arm to Greece the safety gave--
    The prize to which thy soul aspired,
      The crafty wrested from the brave.[3]
      Peace to thine ever-holy rest--
        Not thine to fall before the foe!
        Ajax alone laid Ajax low:
      Ah--wrath destroys the best!"

    To his dead sire--(the Dorian king)--
      The bright-hair'd Pyrrhus[4] pours the wine:--
    "Of every lot that life can bring,
      My soul, great Father, prizes thine.
    Whate'er the goods of earth, of all,
      The highest and the holiest--FAME!
    For when the Form in dust shall fall,
      O'er dust triumphant lives the Name!
      Brave Man, thy light of glory never
        Shall fade, while song to man shall last;
        The Living, soon from earth are pass'd,
      'THE DEAD--ENDURE FOR EVER!'"

    "While silent in their grief and shame,
      The conquer'd hear the conqueror's praise,"
    Quoth Tydeus' son, "let Hector's fame,
      In me, his foe, its witness raise!
    Who, battling for the altar-hearth,
      A brave defender, bravely fell--
    It takes not from the victor's worth,
      If honour with the vanquish'd dwell.
      Who falleth for the altar-hearth,
        A rock and a defence laid low,
        Shall leave behind him, in the foe,
      The lips that speak his worth!"

    Lo, Nestor now, whose stately age
      Through threefold lives of mortals lives!--
    The laurel'd bowl, the kingly sage
      To Hector's tearful mother gives.
    "Drink--in the draught new strength is glowing,
      The grief it bathes forgets the smart!
    O Bacchus! wond'rous boons bestowing,
      Oh how thy balsam heals the heart!
      Drink--in the draught new vigour gloweth,
        The grief it bathes forgets the smart--
        And balsam to the breaking heart,
      The healing god bestoweth.

    "As Niobe, when weeping mute,
      To angry gods the scorn and prey,
    But tasted of the charmed fruit,
      And cast despair itself away;
    So, while unto thy lips, its shore,
      This stream of life enchanted flows,
    Remember'd grief, that stung before,
      Sinks down to Lethè's calm repose.
      So, while unto thy lips, its shore,
        The stream of life enchanted flows--
        Drown'd deep in Lethè's calm repose,
      The grief that stung before!"

    Seized by the god--behold the dark
      And dreaming Prophetess[5] arise!
    She gazes from the lofty bark,
      Where Home's dim vapour wraps the skies--
    "A vapour, all of human birth!
      As mists ascending, seen and gone,
    So fade earth's great ones from the earth,
      And leave the changeless gods alone!
      Behind the steed that skirs away,
        Or on the galley's deck--sits Care!
        To-morrow comes--and Life is where?
      At least--we'll live to-day!"

     [2] Ulysses.

     [3] Need we say to the general reader, that Oileus here alludes
     to the strife between Ajax and Ulysses, which has furnished a
     subject to the Greek tragic poet, who has depicted, more
     strikingly than any historian, that intense emulation for
     glory, and that mortal agony in defeat, which made the main
     secret of the prodigious energy of the Greek character? The
     poet, in taking his hero from the Homeric age, endowed him with
     the feelings of the Athenian republicans he addressed.

     [4] Neoptolemus, the son of Achilles.

     [5] Cassandra.

       *       *       *       *       *

RUDOLPH OF HAPSBURG.--A BALLAD.

[Hinrichs properly classes this striking ballad (together with the yet grander one of the "Fight
with the Dragon") amongst those designed to depict and exalt the virtue of Humility. The source
of the story is in Ægidius Tschudi--a Swiss chronicler--and Schiller (who, as Hinrichs suggests,)
probably met with it in the researches connected with the compositions of his drama, "William
Tell," appears to have adhered, with much fidelity, to the original narrative.]

    At Aachen, in imperial state,
      In that time-hallow'd hall renown'd,
    At solemn feast King Rudolf sate,
      The day that saw the hero crown'd!
    Bohemia and thy Palgrave, Rhine,
    Give this the feast, and that the wine;
        The Arch Electoral Seven,
    Like choral stars around the sun,
    Gird him whose hand a world has won,
        The anointed choice of Heaven.

    In galleries raised above the pomp,
      Press'd crowd on crowd, their panting way;
    And with the joy-resounding tromp,
      Rang out the million's loud hurra!
    For closed at last the age of slaughter,
    When human blood was pour'd as water--
        LAW dawns upon the world![6]
    Sharp Force no more shall right the wrong,
    And grind the weak to crown the strong--
        War's carnage-flag is furl'd!

    In Rudolf's hand the goblet shines--
      And gaily round the board look'd he;
    "And proud the feast, and bright the wines,
      My kingly heart feels glad to me!
    Yet where the lord of sweet desire,
    Who moves the heart beneath the lyre,
        And dulcet Sound Divine?
    Dear from my youth the craft of song,
    And what as knight I loved so long,
        As Kaisar, still be mine."

    Lo, from the circle bending there,
      With sweeping robe the Bard appears,
    As silver, white his gleaming hair,
      Bleach'd by the many winds of years:
    "And music sleeps in golden strings--
    The minstrel's hire, the LOVE he sings;
        Well known to him the ALL
    High thoughts and ardent souls desire!--
    What would the Kaisar from the lyre
        Amidst the banquet-hall?"

    The Great One smiled--"Not mine the sway--
      The minstrel owns a loftier power--
    A mightier king inspires the lay--
      Its hest--THE IMPULSE OF THE HOUR!
    As through wide air the tempests sweep,
    As gush the springs from mystic deep,
        Or lone untrodden glen;
    So from dark hidden fount within,
    Comes SONG, its own wild world to win
        Amidst the souls of men!"

    Swift with the fire the minstrel glow'd,
      And loud the music swept the ear:--
    "Forth to the chase a Hero rode,
      To hunt the bounding chamois-deer:
    With shaft and horn the squire behind:--
    Through greensward meads the riders wind--
        A small sweet bell they hear.
    Lo, with the HOST, a holy man,--
    Before him strides the sacristan,
        And the bell sounds near and near.

    The noble hunter down-inclined
      His reverent head and soften'd eye,
    And honour'd with a Christian's mind
      The Christ who loves humility!
    Loud through the pasture, brawls and raves
    A brook--the rains had fed the waves,
        And torrents from the hill.
    His sandal shoon the priest unbound,
    And laid the Host upon the ground,
        And near'd the swollen rill!

    "What wouldst thou, priest?" the Count began,
      As, marvelling much, he halted there.
    "Sir Count, I seek a dying man,
      Sore hungering for the heavenly fare.
    The bridge that once its safety gave,
    Rent by the anger of the wave,
        Drifts down the tide below.
    Yet barefoot now, I will not fear
    (The soul that seeks its God, to cheer)
        Through the wild wave to go!"

    He gave that priest the knightly steed,
      He reach'd that priest the lordly reins,
    That he might serve the sick man's need,
      Nor slight the task that heaven ordains.
    He took the horse the squire bestrode;
    On to the chase the hunter rode,
        On to the sick the priest!
    And when the morrow's sun was red,
    The servant of the Saviour led
        Back to its lord the beast.

    "Now Heaven forefend," the hero cried,
      "That e'er to chase or battle more
    These limbs the sacred steed bestride,
      That once my Maker's image bore!
    But not for sale or barter given;
    Henceforth its Master is the Heaven--
        My tribute to that King,
    From whom I hold as fiefs, since birth,
    Honour, renown, the goods of earth,
        Life, and each living thing."

    "So may the God who faileth never
      To hear the weak and guide the dim,
    To thee give honour here and ever,
      As thou hast duly honour'd Him!
    Far-famed ev'n now through Switzerland
    Thy generous heart and dauntless hand;
        And fair from thine embrace
    Six daughters bloom--six crowns to bring--
    Blest as the Daughters of a KING--
        The Mothers of a RACE!"

    The mighty Kaisar heard amazed;
      His heart was in the days of old:
    Into the minstrel's eyes he gazed--
      That tale the Kaisar's own had told.
    Yes, in the bard, the priest he knew,
    And in the purple veil'd from view
        The gush of holy tears.
    A thrill through that vast audience ran,
    And every heart the godlike man,
        Revering God, reveres!

     [6] Literally, "A judge (ein richter) was again upon the
     earth." The word substituted in the translation, is introduced
     in order to recall to the reader the sublime name given, not
     without justice, to Rudolf of Hapsburg, viz., "THE LIVING LAW."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WORDS OF ERROR.

        Three errors there are, that for ever are found
          On the lips of the good, on the lips of the best;
        But empty their meaning and hollow their sound--
          And slight is the comfort they bring to the breast.
        The fruits of existence escape from the clasp
        Of the seeker who strives but these shadows to grasp--

        So long as Man dreams of some Age in this life
          When the Right and the Good will all evil subdue;
        For the Right and the Good lead us ever to strife,
          And wherever they lead us, the Fiend will pursue.
        And (till from the earth borne, and stifled at length)
        The earth that he touches still gifts him with strength![7]

        So long as Man fancies that Fortune will live,
          Like a bride with her lover, united with Worth;
        For her favours, alas! to the mean she will give--
          And Virtue possesses no title to earth!
        That Foreigner wanders to regions afar,
        Where the lands of her birthright immortally are!

        So long as Man dreams that, to mortals a gift,
          The Truth in her fulness of splendour will shine;
        The veil of the goddess no earth-born may lift,
          And all we can learn is--to guess and divine!
        Dost thou seek, in a dogma, to prison her form?
        The spirit flies forth on the wings of the storm!

        O, Noble Soul! fly from delusions like these,
          More heavenly belief be it thine to adore;
        Where the Ear never hearkens, the Eye never sees,
          Meet the rivers of Beauty and Truth evermore!
        Not without thee the streams--there the Dull seek them;--No!
        Look within thee--behold both the fount and the flow!

     [7] This simile is nobly conceived, but expressed somewhat
     obscurely. As Hercules contended in vain against Antæus, the
     Son of Earth,--so long as the Earth gave her giant offspring
     new strength in every fall,--so the soul contends in vain with
     evil--the natural earth-born enemy, while the very contact of
     the earth invigorates the enemy for the struggle. And as Antæus
     was slain at last, when Hercules lifted him from the earth and
     strangled him while raised aloft, so can the soul slay the
     enemy, (the desire, the passion, the evil, the earth's
     offspring,) when bearing it from earth itself, and stifling it
     in the higher air.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WORDS OF BELIEF.

    Three Words will I name thee--around and about,
      From the lip to the lip, full of meaning, they flee;
    But they had not their birth in the being without,
      And the heart, not the lip, must their oracle be!
    And all worth in the man shall for ever be o'er
    When in those Three Words he believes no more.

    Man is made FREE!--Man, by birthright, is free,
      Though the tyrant may deem him but born for his tool.
    Whatever the shout of the rabble may be--
      Whatever the ranting misuse of the fool--
    Still fear not the Slave, when he breaks from his chain,
    For the Man made a Freeman grows safe in his gain.

    And VIRTUE is more than a shade or a sound,
      And Man may her voice, in this being, obey;
    And though ever he slip on the stony ground,
      Yet ever again to the godlike way.
    Though her wisdom our wisdom may not perceive,
    Yet the childlike spirit can still believe.

    And a GOD there is!--over Space, over Time,
      While the Human Will rocks, like a reed, to and fro,
    Lives the Will of the Holy--A Purpose Sublime,
      A Thought woven over creation below;
    Changing and shifting the All we inherit,
    But changeless through all One Immutable Spirit!

    Hold fast the Three Words of Belief--though about
      From the lip to the lip, full of meaning they flee;
    Yet they take not their birth from the being without--
      But a voice from within must their oracle be;
    And never all worth in the Man can be o'er,
    Till in those Three Words he believes no more.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MIGHT OF SONG.

    A rain-flood from the mountain-riven,
      It leaps, in thunder, forth to Day,
    Before its rush the crags are driven--
      The oaks uprooted, whirl'd away--
    Aw'd, yet in awe all wildly glad'ning,
      The startled wanderer halts below;
    He hears the rock-born waters mad'ning,
      Nor wits the source from whence they go,--
    So, from their high, mysterious Founts along,
    Stream on the silenc'd world the Waves of Song!

    Knit with the threads of life, for ever,
      By those dread Powers that weave the woof,--
    Whose art the singer's spell can sever?
     Whose breast has mail to music proof?
    Lo, to the Bard, a wand of wonder
      The Herald[8] of the Gods has given:
    He sinks the soul the death-realm under,
      Or lifts it breathless up to heaven--
    Half sport, half earnest, rocking its devotion
    Upon the tremulous ladder of emotion.

    As, when the halls of Mirth are crowded,
      Portentous, on the wanton scene--
    Some Fate, before from wisdom shrouded,
      Awakes and awes the souls of Men--
    Before that Stranger from ANOTHER,
      Behold how THIS world's great ones bow--
    Mean joys their idle clamour smother,
      The mask is vanish'd from the brow--
    And from Truth's sudden, solemn flag unfurl'd,
    Fly all the craven Falsehoods of the World!

    So, rapt from every care and folly,
      When spreads abroad the lofty lay,
    The Human kindles to the Holy,
      And into Spirit soars the Clay!
    One with the Gods the Bard: before him
      All things unclean and earthly fly--
    Hush'd are all meaner powers, and o'er him
      The dark fate swoops unharming by;
    And while the Soother's magic measures flow,
    Smooth'd every wrinkle on the brows of Woe!

    Even as a child that, after pining
      For the sweet absent mother--hears
    Her voice--and, round her neck entwining
      Young arms, vents all his soul in tears;--
    So, by harsh custom far estranged,
      Along the glad and guileless track,
    To childhood's happy home, unchanged,
      The swift song wafts the wanderer back--
    Snatch'd from the coldness of unloving Art
    To Nature's mother arms--to Nature's glowing heart!

     [8] Hermes.

       *       *       *       *       *

HONOUR TO WOMAN.
          And his heart, contented never,
            Greeds to grapple with the Far,
          Chasing his own dream for ever,
            On through many a distant Star!

        But Woman with looks that can charm and enchain,
        Lureth back at her beck the wild truant again,
          By the spell of her presence beguil'd--
        In the home of the Mother her modest abode,
        And modest the manners by Nature bestow'd
          On Nature's most exquisite child!

          Bruised and worn, but fiercely breasting,
            Foe to foe, the angry strife;
          Man the Wild One, never resting,
            Roams along the troubled life;
          What he planneth, still pursuing;
            Vainly as the Hydra bleeds,
          Crest the sever'd crest renewing--
            Wish to wither'd wish succeeds.

        But Woman at peace with all being, reposes,
        And seeks from the Moment to gather the roses--
          Whose sweets to her culture belong.
        Ah! richer than he, though his soul reigneth o'er
        The mighty dominion of Genius and Lore,
          And the infinite Circle of Song.

          Strong, and proud, and self-depending,
            Man's cold bosom beats alone;
          Heart with heart divinely blending,
            In the love that Gods have known,
          Souls' sweet interchange of feeling,
            Melting tears--he never knows,
          Each hard sense the hard one steeling,
            Arms against a world of foes.

        Alive, as the wind-harp, how lightly soever
        If woo'd by the Zephyr, to music will quiver,
          Is Woman to Hope and to Fear;
        Ah, tender one! still at the shadow of grieving,
        How quiver the chords--how thy bosom is heaving--
          How trembles thy glance through the tear!

          Man's dominion, war and labour;
            Might to right the Statute gave;
          Laws are in the Scythian's sabre;
            Where the Mede reign'd--see the Slave!
          Peace and Meekness grimly routing,
            Prowls the War-lust, rude and wild;
          Eris rages, hoarsely shouting,
            Where the vanish'd Graces smil'd.

        But Woman, the Soft One, persuasively prayeth--
        Of the Senses she charmeth, the sceptre she swayeth;
          She lulls, as she looks from above,
        The Discord whose Hell for its victims is gaping,
        And blending awhile the for-ever escaping,
          Whispers Hate to the Image of Love!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FIGHT WITH THE DRAGON.

    Who comes?--why rushes fast and loud,
    Through lane and street the hurtling crowd,
    Is Rhodes on fire?--Hurrah!--along
    Faster and fast storms the throng!
    High towers a shape in knightly garb--
    Behold the Rider and the Barb!
    Behind is dragg'd a wondrous load;
    Beneath what monster groans the road?
    The horrid jaws--the Crocodile,
      The shape the mightier Dragon, shows--
    From Man to Monster all the while--
      The alternate wonder glancing goes.

    Shout thousands, with a single voice,
    "Behold the Dragon, and rejoice,
    Safe roves the herd, and safe the swain!
    Lo!--there the Slayer--here the Slain!
    Full many a breast, a gallant life,
    Has waged against the ghastly strife,
    And ne'er return'd to mortal sight--
    Hurrah, then, for the Hero Knight!"
    So to the Cloister, where the vow'd
      And peerless Brethren of St John
    In conclave sit--that sea-like crowd,
      Wave upon wave, goes thundering on.

    High o'er the rest, the chief is seen--
    There wends the Knight with modest mien;
    Pours through the galleries raised for all
    Above that Hero-council Hall,
    The crowd--And thus the Victor One:--
    "Prince--the knight's duty I have done.
    The Dragon that devour'd the land
    Lies slain beneath thy servant's hand;
    Free, o'er the pasture, rove the flocks--
      And free the idler's steps may stray--
    And freely o'er the lonely rocks,
      The holier pilgrim wends his way!"

    A lofty look the Master gave,
    "Certes," he said; "thy deed is brave;
    Dread was the danger, dread the fight--
    Bold deeds bring fame to vulgar knight;
    But say, what sways with holier laws
    The knight who sees in Christ his cause,
    And wears the cross?"--Then every cheek
    Grew pale to hear the Master speak;
    But nobler was the blush that spread
      His face--the Victor's of the day--
    As bending lowly--"Prince," he said;
      "His noblest duty--TO OBEY!"

    "And yet that duty, son," replied
    The chief, "methinks thou hast denied;
    And dared thy sacred sword to wield
    For fame in a forbidden field."
    "Master, thy judgment, howsoe'er
    It lean, till all is told, forbear--
    Thy law in spirit and in will,
    I had no thought but to fulfil.
    Not rash, as some, did I depart
      A Christian's blood in vain to shed;
    But hoped by skill, and strove by art,
      To make my life avenge the dead.

    "Five of our Order, in renown
    The war-gems of our saintly crown,
    The martyr's glory bought with life;
    'Twas then thy law forbade the strife.
    Yet in my heart there gnaw'd, like fire,
    Proud sorrow, fed with stern desire:
    In the still visions of the night,
    Panting, I fought the fancied fight;
    And when the morrow glimmering came,
      With tales of ravage freshly done,
    The dream remember'd, turn'd to shame,
      That night should dare what day should shun.

    "And thus my fiery musings ran--
    'What youth has learn'd should nerve the man;
    How lived the great in days of old,
    Whose Fame to time by bards is told--
    Who, heathens though they were, became
    As gods--upborne to heaven by fame?
    How proved they best the hero's worth?
    They chased the monster from the earth--
    They sought the lion in his den--
      They pierced the Cretan's deadly maze--
    Their noble blood gave humble men
      Their happy birthright--peaceful days.

    "'What! sacred, but against the horde
    Of Mahound, is the Christian's sword?
    All strife, save one, should he forbear?
    No! earth itself the Christian's care--
    From every ill and every harm,
    Man's shield should be the Christian's arm.
    Yet art o'er strength will oft prevail,
    And mind must aid where heart may fail!'
    Thus musing, oft I roam'd alone,
      Where wont the Hell-born Beast to lie;
    Till sudden light upon me shone,
      And on my hope broke victory!

    "Then, Prince, I sought thee with the prayer
    To breathe once more my native air;
    The license given--the ocean past--
    I reach'd the shores of home at last.
    Scarce hail'd the old beloved land,
    Than huge, beneath the artist's hand,
    To every hideous feature true,
    The Dragon's monster-model grew.
    The dwarf'd, deformed limbs upbore
      The lengthen'd body's ponderous load;
    The scales the impervious surface wore,
      Like links of burnish'd harness, glow'd.

    "Life-like, the huge neck seem'd to swell,
    And widely, as some porch to hell
    You might the horrent jaws survey,
    Griesly, and greeding for their prey.
    Grim fangs an added terror gave,
    Like crags that whiten through a cave.
    The very tongue a sword in seeming--
    The deep-sunk eyes in sparkles gleaming.
    Where the vast body ends, succeed
      The serpent spires around it roll'd--
    Woe--woe to rider, woe to steed,
      Whom coils as fearful e'er enfold!

    "All to the awful life was done--
    The very hue, so ghastly, won--
    The grey, dull tint:--the labour ceased,
    It stood--half reptile and half beast!
    And now began the mimic chase;
    Two dogs I sought, of noblest race,
    Fierce, nimble, fleet, and wont to scorn
    The wild bull's wrath and levell'd horn;
    These, docile to my cheering cry,
      I train'd to bound, and rend, and spring,
    Now round the Monster-shape to fly,
      Now to the Monster-shape to cling!

    "And where their gripe the best assails,
    The belly left unsheath'd in scales,
    I taught the dexterous hounds to hang
    And find the spot to fix the fang;
    Whilst I, with lance and mailèd garb,
    Launch'd on the beast mine Arab barb.
    From purest race that Arab came,
    And steeds, like men, are fired by fame.
    Beneath the spur he chafes to rage;
      Onwards we ride in full career--
    I seem, in truth, the war to wage--
      The monster reels beneath my spear!

    "Albeit, when first the destrier[9] eyed
    The laidly thing, it swerved aside,
    Snorted and rear'd--and even they,
    The fierce hounds, shrank with startled bay;
    I ceased not, till, by custom bold,
    After three tedious moons were told,
    Both barb and hounds were train'd--nay, more,
    Fierce for the fight--then left the shore!
    Three days have fleeted since I prest
      (Return'd at length) this welcome soil,
    Nor once would lay my limbs to rest,
      Till wrought the glorious crowning toil.

    "For much it moved my soul to know
    The unslack'ning curse of that grim foe.
    Fresh rent, mens' bones lay bleach'd and bare
    Around the hell-worm's swampy lair;
    And pity nerved me into steel:--
    Advice?--I had a heart to feel,
    And strength to dare! So, to the deed.--
    I call'd my squires--bestrode my steed,
    And with my stalwart hounds, and by
      Lone secret paths, we gaily go
    Unseen--at least by human eye--
      Against a worse than human foe!

    "Thou know'st the sharp rock--steep and hoar?--
    The abyss?--the chapel glimmering o'er?
    Built by the Fearless Master's hand,
    The fane looks down on all the land.
    Humble and mean that house of prayer--
    Yet God hath shrined a wonder there:--
    Mother and Child, to whom of old
    The Three Kings knelt with gifts, behold!
    By three times thirty steps, the shrine
      The pilgrim gains--and faint, and dim,
    And dizzy with the height, divine
      Strength on the sudden springs to him!

    "Yawns wide within that holy steep
    A mighty cavern dark and deep--
    By blessed sunbeam never lit--
    Rank foetid swamps engirdle it;
    And there by night, and there by day,
    Ever at watch, the fiend-worm lay,
    Holding the Hell of its abode
    Fast by the hallow'd House of God.
    And when the pilgrim gladly ween'd
      His feet had found the healing way,
    Forth from its ambush rush'd the fiend,
      And down to darkness dragg'd the prey.

    "With solemn soul, that solemn height
    I clomb, ere yet I sought the fight--
    Kneeling before the cross within,
    My heart, confessing, clear'd its sin.
    Then, as befits the Christian knight,
    I donn'd the spotless surplice white,
    And, by the altar, grasp'd the spear:--
    So down I strode with conscience clear--
    Bade my leal squires afar the deed,
      By death or conquest crown'd, await--
    Leapt lightly on my lithesome steed,
      And gave to God his soldier's fate!

    "Before me wide the marshes lay--
    Started the hounds with sudden bay--
    Aghast the swerving charger slanting
    Snorted--then stood abrupt and panting--
    For curling there, in coilèd fold,
    The Unutterable Beast behold!
    Lazily basking in the sun.
    Forth sprang the dogs. The fight's begun!
    But lo! the hounds in cowering fly
      Before the mighty poison-breath--
    A yell, most like the jackall's cry,
      Howl'd, mingling with that wind of death!

    "No halt--I gave one cheering sound;
    Lustily springs each dauntless hound--
    Swift as the dauntless hounds advance,
    Whirringly skirrs my stalwart lance--
    Whirringly skirrs; and from the scale
    Bounds, as a reed aslant the mail.
    Onward--but no!--the craven steed
    Shrinks from his lord in that dread need--
      Smitten and scared before that eye
    Of basilisk horror, and that blast
      Of death, it only seeks to fly--
    And half the mighty hope is past!

    "A moment, and to earth I leapt;
    Swift from its sheath the falchion swept;
    Swift on that rock-like mail it plied--
    The rock-like mail the sword defied:
    The monster lash'd its mighty coil--
    Down hurl'd--behold me on the soil!
    Behold the hell-jaws gaping wide--
    When lo! they bound--the flesh is found;
      Upon the scaleless parts they spring!
    Springs either hound;--the flesh is found--
      It roars; the blood-dogs cleave and cling!

    "No time to foil its fast'ning foes--
    Light, as it writhed, I sprang, and rose;
    The all-unguarded place explored,
    Up to the hilt I plunged the sword--
    Buried one instant in the blood--
    The next, upsprang the bubbling flood!
    The next, one Vastness spread the plain--
    Crush'd down--the victor with the slain;
    And all was dark--and on the ground
      My life, suspended, lost the sun,
    Till waking--lo my squires around--
      And the dead foe!--my tale is done."

    Then burst, as from a common breast,
    The eager laud so long supprest--
    A thousand voices, choral-blending,
    Up to the vaulted dome ascending--
    From groined roof and banner'd wall,
    Invisible echoes answering all--
    The very Brethren, grave and high,
    Forget their state, and join the cry.
    "With laurel wreaths his brows be crown'd,
      Let throng to throng his triumph tell;
    Hail him all Rhodes!"--the Master frown'd,
      And raised his hand--and silence fell.

    "Well," said that solemn voice, "thy hand
    From the wild-beast hath freed the land.
    An idol to the People be!
    A foe our Order frowns on thee!
    For in thy heart, superb and vain,
    A hell-worm laidlier than the slain,
    To discord which engenders death,
    Poisons each thought with baleful breath!
    That hell-worm is the stubborn Will--
      Oh! What were man and nations worth
    If each his own desire fulfil,
      And law be banish'd from the earth?

    "Valour the Heathen gives to story--
    Obedience is the Christian's glory;
    And on that soil our Saviour-God
    As the meek low-born mortal trod.
    We the Apostle-knights were sworn
    To laws thy daring laughs to scorn--
    Not fame, but duty to fulfil--
    Our noblest offering--man's wild will.
    Vain-glory doth thy soul betray--
      Begone--thy conquest is thy loss:
    No breast too haughty to obey,
      Is worthy of the Christian's cross!"

    From their cold awe the crowds awaken,
    As with some storm the halls are shaken;
    The noble brethren plead for grace--
    Mute stands the doom'd, with downward face;
    And mutely loosen'd from its band
    The badge, and kiss'd the Master's hand,
    And meekly turn'd him to depart:
    A moist eye follow'd, "To my heart
    Come back, my son!"--the Master cries:
      "Thy grace a harder fight obtains;
    When Valour risks the Christian's prize,
      Lo, how Humility regains!"

[In the ballad just presented to the reader, Schiller designed, as he wrote to Goethe, to depict
the old Christian chivalry--half-knightly, half-monastic. The attempt is strikingly successful;
and, even in so humble a translation, the unadorned simplicity and earnest vigour of a great
poet, enamoured of his subject, may be sufficiently visible to a discerning critic. "The Fight
of the Dragon" appears to us the most spirited and nervous of all Schiller's ballads, with
the single exception of "The Diver;" and if its interest is less intense than that of the matchless
"Diver," and its descriptions less poetically striking and effective, its interior meaning
or philosophical conception is at once more profound and more elevated. The main distinction,
indeed, between the ancient ballad and the modern, as revived and recreated by Goethe and Schiller,
is, that the former is a simple narrative, and the latter a narrative which conveys some intellectual
idea--some dim, but important truth. The one has but the good faith of the minstrel, the other
the high wisdom of the poet. In "The Fight of the Dragon," is expressed the moral of that humility
which consists in self-conquest--even merit may lead to vain-glory--and, after vanquishing
the fiercest enemies without, Man has still to contend with his worst foe,--the pride or disobedience
of his own heart. "Every one," as a recent and acute, but somewhat over-refining critic has
remarked, "has more or less--his own 'fight with the Dragon,'--his own double victory (without
and within) to achieve." The origin of this poem is to be found in the Annals of the Order
of Malta--and the details may be seen in Vertot's History. The date assigned to the conquest
of the Dragon is 1342. Helion de Villeneuve was the name of the Grand Master--that of the Knight,
Dieu-Donné de Gozon. Thevenot declares, that the head of the monster, (to whatever species
it really belonged,) or its effigies, was still placed over one of the gates of the city in
his time.]

     [9] War-horse.

       *       *       *       *       *

REYNOLDS'S DISCOURSES. PART II.

Having shown that the standard of Taste is in the Truth of Nature, and that this truth is in
the mind, Sir Joshua, in the Eighth Discourse, proceeds to a further development of the principles
of art. These principles, whether poetry or painting, have their foundation in the mind; which
by its sensitive faculties and intellectual requirements, remodels all that it receives from
the external world, vivifying and characterizing all with itself, and thus bringing forth into
light the more beautiful but latent creations of nature. The "activity and restlessness" of
the mind seek satisfaction from curiosity, novelty, variety, and contrast. Curiosity, "the
anxiety for the future, the keeping the event suspended," he considers to be exclusively the
province of poetry, and that "the painter's art is more confined, and has nothing that corresponds
with, or perhaps is equivalent to, this power and advantage of leading the mind on, till attention
is totally engaged. What is done by painting must be done at one blow; curiosity has received
at once all the satisfaction it can have." Novelty, variety, and contrast, however, belong
to the painter. That poetry has this power, and operates by more extensively raising our curiosity,
cannot be denied; but we hesitate in altogether excluding this power from painting. A momentary
action may be so represented, as to elicit a desire for, and even an intimation of its event.
It is true that curiosity cannot be satisfied, but it works and conjectures; and we suspect
there is something of it in most good pictures. Take such a subject as the "Judgment of Solomon:"
is not the "event suspended," and a breathless anxiety portrayed in the characters, and freely
acknowledged by the sympathy of the spectator? Is there no mark of this "curiosity" in the
"Cartoon of Pisa?" The trumpet has sounded, the soldiers are some half-dressed, some out of
the water, others bathing; one is anxiously looking for the rising of his companion, who has
just plunged in, and we see but his hands above the water; the very range of rocks, behind
which the danger is shown to come, tends to excite our curiosity; we form conjectures of the
enemy, their number, nearness of approach, and from among the manly warriors before us form
episodes of heroism in the great intimated epic: and have we not seen pictures by Rembrandt,
where "curiosity" delights to search unsatisfied and unsatiated into the mysteries of colour
and chiaro-scuro, receding further as we look into an atmosphere pregnant with all uncertain
things? We think we have not mistaken the President's meaning. Mr Burnet appears to agree with
us: though he makes no remark upon the power of raising curiosity, yet it surely is raised
in the very picture to which we presume he alludes, Raffaelle's "Death of Ananias;" the event,
in Sapphira, is intimated and suspended. "Though," says Mr Burnet, "the painter has but one
page to represent his story, he generally chooses that part which combines the most illustrative
incidents with the most effective denouement of the event. In Raffaelle we often find not only
those circumstances which precede it, but its effects upon the personages introduced after
the catastrophe."

There is, however, a natural indolence of our disposition, which seeks pleasure in repose,
and the resting in old habits, which must not be too violently opposed by "variety," "reanimating
the attention, which is apt to languish under a continual sameness;" nor by "novelty," making
"more forcible impression on the mind than can be made by the representation of what we have
often seen before;" nor by "contrasts," that "rouse the power of comparison by opposition."

The mind, then, though an active principle, having likewise a disposition to indolence, (might
we have said repose?) limits the quantity of variety, novelty, and contrast which it will bear;--these
are, therefore, liable to excesses. Hence arise certain rules of art, that in a composition
objects must not be too scattered and divided into many equal parts, that perplex and fatigue
the eye, at a loss where to find the principal action. Sir Joshua instances Rembrandt and Poussin,
the former as having the defect of "absolute unity," the latter the defect of the dispersion
and scattering his figures without attention to their grouping. Hence there must be "the same
just moderation observed in regard to ornaments;" for a certain repose must never be destroyed.
Ornament in profusion, whether of objects or colours, does destroy it; and, "on the other hand,
a work without ornament, instead of simplicity, to which it makes pretensions, has rather the
appearance of poverty." "We may be sure of this truth, that the most ornamental style requires
repose to set off even its ornaments to advantage." The writers of every age and country, where
taste has begun to decline, paint and adorn every object they touch; are always on the stretch;
never deviate or sink a moment from the pompous and the brilliant."[10]

     [10] Could Sir Joshua now be permitted to visit his own
     Academy, and our exhibitions in general, he would be startled
     at the excess of ornament, in defiance of his rule of repose,
     succeeding the slovenliness of his own day. Whatever be the
     subject, history, landscape, or familiar life, it superabounds
     both in objects and colour. In established academies, the
     faults of genius are more readily adopted than their
     excellences; they are more vulgarly perceptible, and more easy
     of imitation. We have, therefore, less hesitation in referring
     the more ambitious of our artists to this prohibition in Sir
     Joshua's Discourse. The greater the authority the more
     injurious the delinquency. We therefore adduce as examples,
     works of our most inventive and able artist, his "Macbeth" and
     his "Hamlet"--they are greatly overloaded with the faults of
     superabundance of ornament, and want unity; yet are they works
     of great power, and such as none but a painter of high genius
     could conceive or execute. In a more fanciful subject, and
     where ornament was more admissible, he has been more fortunate,
     and even in the multiplicity of his figures and ornaments, by
     their grouping and management, he has preserved a seeming
     moderation, and has so ordered his composition that the
     wholeness, the simplicity, of his subject is not destroyed. The
     story is told, and admirably--as Sir Joshua says, "at one
     blow." We speak of his "Sleeping Beauty." We see at once that
     the prince and princess are the principal, and they are united
     by that light and fainter fairy chain intimating, yet not too
     prominently, the magic under whose working and whose light the
     whole scene is; nothing can be better conceived than the
     prince--there is a largeness in the manner, a breadth in the
     execution of the figure that considerably dignifies the story,
     and makes him, the principal, a proper index of it. The many
     groups are all episodes, beautiful in themselves, and in no way
     injure the simplicity. There is novelty, variety, and contrast
     in not undue proportion, because that simplicity is preserved.
     Even the colouring, (though there is too much white,) and
     chiaro-scuro, with its gorgeousness, is in the stillness of
     repose, and a sunny repose, too, befitting the "Sleeping
     Beauty." Mr Maclise has succeeded best where his difficulty and
     danger were greatest, and so it ever is with genius. It is not
     in such subjects alone that our artists transgress Sir Joshua's
     rule; we too often see portraits where the dress and
     accessaries obtrude--there is too much lace and too little
     expression--and our painters of views follow the fashion most
     unaccountably--ornament is every where; we have not a town
     where the houses are not "turned out of windows," and all the
     furniture of every kind piled up in the streets; and as if to
     show a pretty general bankruptcy, together with the artist's
     own poverty, you would imagine an auction going on in every
     other house, by the Turkey carpets and odds and ends hanging
     from the windows. We have even seen a "Rag Fair" in a turnpike
     road.

Novelty, Variety, and Contrast are required in Art, because they are the natural springs that
move the mind to attention from its indolent quiescence; but having moved, their duty is performed--the
mind of itself will do the rest; they must not act prominent parts. In every work there must
be a simplicity which binds the whole together, as a whole; and whatever comes not within that
girdle of the graces, is worse than superfluous--it draws off and distracts the attention which
should be concentrated. Besides that simplicity which we have spoken of--and we have used the
word in its technical sense, as that which keeps together and makes one thing of many parts--there
is a simplicity which is best known by its opposite, affectation; upon this Sir Joshua enlarges.
"Simplicity, being a negative virtue, cannot be described or defined." But it is possible,
even in avoiding affectation, to convert simplicity into the very thing we strive to avoid.
N. Poussin--whom, with regard to this virtue, he contrasts with others of the French school--Sir
Joshua considers, in his abhorrence of the affectation of his countrymen, somewhat to approach
it, by "what in writing would be called pedantry." Du Piles is justly censured for his recipe
of grace and dignity. "If," says he, "you draw persons of high character and dignity, they
ought to be drawn in such an attitude that the portraits must seem to speak to us of themselves,
and as it were to say to us, 'Stop, take notice of me--I am the invincible king, surrounded
by majesty.' 'I am the valiant commander who struck terror every where,' 'I am that great minister,
who knew all the springs of politics.' 'I am that magistrate of consummate wisdom and probity.'"
This is indeed affectation, and a very vulgar notion of greatness. We are reminded of Partridge,
and his admiration of the overacting king. All the characters in thus seeming to say, would
be little indeed. Not so Raffaelle and Titian understood grace and dignity. Simplicity he holds
to be "our barrier against that great enemy to truth and nature, affectation, which is ever
clinging to the pencil, and ready to drop and poison every thing it touches." Yet that, "when
so very inartificial as to seem to evade the difficulties of art, is a very suspicious virtue."
Sir Joshua dwells much upon this, because he thinks there is a perpetual tendency in young
artists to run into affectation, and that from the very terms of the precepts offered them.
"When a young artist is first told that his composition and his attitudes must be contrasted;
that he must turn the head contrary to the position of the body, in order to produce grace
and animation; that his outline must be undulating and swelling, to give grandeur; and that
the eye must be gratified with a variety of colours; when he is told this with certain animating
words of spirit, dignity, energy, greatness of style, and brilliancy of tints, he becomes suddenly
vain of his newly-acquired knowledge, and never thinks he can carry those rules too far. It
is then that the aid of simplicity ought to be called in to correct the exuberance of youthful
ardour." We may add that hereby, too, is shown the danger of particular and practical rules;
very few of the kind are to be found in the "Discourses." Indeed the President points out,
by examples from Raffaelle, the good effect of setting aside these academical rules. We suspect
that they are never less wanted than when they give direction to attitudes and forms of action.
He admits that, in order "to excite attention to the more manly, noble, and dignified manner,"
he had perhaps left "an impression too contemptuous of the ornamental parts of our art." He
had, to use his own expression, bent the bow the contrary way to make it straight. "For this
purpose, then, and to correct excess or neglect of any kind, we may here add, that it is not
enough that a work be learned--it must be pleasing." Pretty much as Horace had said of poetry,

    "Non satis est pulchra esse poemata, dulcia sunto."

To which maxim the Latin poet has unconsciously given the grace of rhyme--

    "Et quocunque volent animum auditoris agunto."

He again shows the danger of particular practical rules.--"It is given as a rule by Fresnoy,
that 'the principal figure of a subject must appear in the midst of the picture, under the
principal light, to distinguish it from the rest.' A painter who should think himself obliged
strictly to follow this rule, would encumber himself with needless difficulties; he would be
confined to great uniformity of composition, and be deprived of many beauties which are incompatible
with its observance. The meaning of this rule extends, or ought to extend, no further than
this: that the principal figure should be immediately distinguished at the first glance of
the eye; but there is no necessity that the principal light should fall on the principal figure,
or that the principal figure should be in the middle of the picture." He might have added that
it is the very place where generally it ought not to be. Many examples are given; we could
have wished he had given a plate from any one in preference to that from Le Brun. Felebein,
in praising this picture, according to preconceived recipe, gives Alexander, who is in shade,
the principal light. We have marked in italics the latter part of the sentence, because it
shows that the rule itself must be ill-defined or too particular. Indeed, we receive with caution
all such rules as belong to the practical and mechanical of the art. He instances Paul Veronese.
We suspect that the rule, when it attempts to direct beyond the words Sir Joshua has marked
in italics, refutes itself, and shackles the student. Infinite must be the modes of composition,
and as infinite the modes of treating them in light and shadow and colour. "Whatever mode of
composition is adopted, every variety and license is allowable." All that is absolutely necessary
is, that there be no confusion or distraction, no conflicting masses--in fact, that the picture
tell its tale at once and effectually. A very good plate is given by Mr Burnet of the "Marriage
of Cana," by Paul Veronese. Sir Joshua avoids entering upon rules that belong to "the detail
of the art." He meets with combatants, as might have been expected, where he is thus particular.
We will extract the passage which has been controverted, and to oppose the doctrine of which,
Gainsborough painted his celebrated "Blue Boy." Le Brun and Carlo Maratti are censured as being
"deficient in this management of colours." The "Bacchus and Ariadne," now in our National Gallery,
has ever been celebrated for its harmony of colour. Sir Joshua supports his theory or rule
by the example of this picture: the red of Ariadne's scarf, which, according to critics, was
purposely given to relieve the figure from the sea, has a better object. "The figure of Ariadne
is separated from the great group, and is dressed in blue, which, added to the colour of the
sea, makes that quantity of cold colour which Titian thought necessary for the support and
brilliancy of the great group; which group is composed, with very little exception, entirely
of mellow colours. But as the picture in this case would be divided into two distinct parts,
one half cold and the other warm, it was necessary to carry some of the mellow colours of the
great group into the cold part of the picture, and a part of the cold into the great group;
accordingly Titian gave Ariadne a red scarf, and to one of the Bacchantes a little blue drapery."
As there is no picture more splendid, it is well to weigh and consider again and again remarks
upon the cause of the brilliancy, given by such an authority as Sir Joshua Reynolds. With regard
to his rule, even among artists, "adhuc sub judice lis est." He combats the common notion of
relief, as belonging only to the infancy of the art, and shows the advance made by Coreggio
and Rembrandt; though the first manner of Coreggio, as well as of Leonardo da Vinci and Georgione,
was dry and hard. He instances a "Moonlight" by Rubens, now, we believe, in the possession
of Mr Rogers, in which Rubens had given more light and more glowing colours than we recognize
in nature,--"it might easily be mistaken, if he had not likewise added stars, for a fainter
setting sun." We stop not to enquire if that harmony so praised, might not have been preserved
had the resemblance to nature been closer. Brilliancy is produced. The fact is, the practice
of art is a system of compensation. We cannot exactly in all cases represent nature,--we have
not the means, but our means will achieve what, though particularly unlike, may, by itself
or in opposition, produce similar effects. Nature does not present a varnished polished surface,
nor that very transparency that our colours can give; but it is found that this transparency,
in all its degrees, in conjunction and in opposition to opaque body of colour, represents the
force of light and shade of nature, which is the principal object to attain. The richness of
nature is not the exact richness of the palette. The painter's success is in the means of compensation.

This Discourse concludes with observations on the Prize pictures. The subject seems to have
been the Sacrifice of Iphigenia. All had copied the invention of Timanthes, in hiding the face
of Agamemnon. Sir Joshua seems to agree with Mr Falconet, in a note in his translation of Pliny,
who would condemn the painter, but that he copied the idea from the authority of Euripides;
Sir Joshua considers it at best a trick, that can only with success be practised once. Mr Fuseli
criticises the passage, and assumes that the painter had better reason than that given by Mr
Falconet. Mr Burnet has added but two or three notes to this Discourse--they are unimportant,
with the exception of the last, wherein he combats Sir Joshua's theory of the cold and warm
colours. He candidly prints an extract of a letter from Sir Thomas Lawrence, who differs with
him. It is so elegantly written that we quote the passage. Sir Thomas says,--"Agreeing with
you in so many points, I will venture to differ from you in your question with Sir Joshua.
Infinitely various as nature is, there are still two or three truths that limit her variety,
or, rather, that limit art in the imitation of her. I should instance for one the ascendency
of white objects, which can never be departed from with impunity, and again, the union of colour
with light. Masterly as the execution of that picture is (viz. the Boy in a blue dress,) I
always feel a never-changing impression on my eye, that the "Blue Boy" of Gainsborough is a
difficulty boldly combated, not conquered. The light blue drapery of the Virgin in the centre
of the "Notte" is another instance; a check to the harmony of the celestial radiance round
it." "Opposed to Sir Thomas's opinion," says Mr Burnet, "I might quote that of Sir David Wilkie,
often expressed, and carried out in his picture of the 'Chelsea Pensioners' and other works."
It strikes us, from our recollection of the "Chelsea Pensioners," that it is not at all a case
in point; the blue there not being light but dark, and serving as dark, forcibly contrasting
with warmer light in sky and other objects; the colour of blue is scarcely given, and is too
dark to be allowed to enter into the question. He adds, "A very simple method may be adopted
to enable the student to perceive where the warm and red colours are placed by the great colourists,
by his making a sketch of light and shade of the picture, and then touching in the warm colours
with red chalk; or by looking on his palette at twilight, he will see what colours absorb the
light, and those that give it out, and thus select for his shadows, colours that have the property
of giving depth and richness." Unless the pictures are intended to be seen at twilight, we
do not see how this can bear upon the question; if it does, we would notice what we have often
observed, that at twilight blue almost entirely disappears, to such a degree that in a landscape
where the blue has even been deep, and the sky by no means the lightest part of the picture,
at twilight the whole landscape comes out too hard upon the sky, which with its colour has
lost its tone, and become, with relation to the rest, by far too light. It is said that of
all the pictures in the National Gallery, when seen at twilight, the Coreggios retire last--we
speak of the two, the "Ecce Homo" and the "Venus, Mercury, and Cupid." In these there is no
blue but in the drapery of the fainting mother, and that is so dark as to serve for black or
mere shadow; the lighter blue close upon the neck is too small to affect the power of the picture.
It certainly is a fact, that blue fades more than any colour at twilight, and, relatively speaking,
leaves the image that contains it lighter. We should almost be inclined to ask the question,
though with great deference to authority, is blue, when very light, necessarily cold; and if
so, has it not an activity which, being the great quality of light, assimilates it with light,
and thus takes in to itself the surrounding "radiance?" A very little positive warm colour,
as it were set in blue, from whatever cause, gives it a surprising glow. We desire to see the
theory of colours treated, not with regard to their corresponding harmony in their power one
upon the other, nor in their light and shadow, but, if we may so express it, in their sentimentality--the
effect they are capable of in moving the passions. We alluded to this in our last paper, and
the more we consider the subject, the more we convinced that it is worth deeper investigation.

       *       *       *       *       *

The NINTH DISCOURSE is short, and general in its character; it was delivered at the opening
of the Royal Academy in Somerset Place, October 16, 1780. It is an elegant address; raises
the aim of the artist; and gives a summary of the origin of arts and their use. "Let us for
a moment take a short survey of the progress of the mind towards what is, or ought to be, its
true object of attention. Man in his lowest state has no pleasures but those of sense, and
no wants but those of appetite; afterwards, when society is divided into different ranks, and
some are appointed to labour for the support of others, those whom their superiority sets free
from labour begin to look for intellectual entertainments. Thus, while the shepherds were attending
their flocks, their masters made the first astronomical observations; so music is said to have
had its origin from a man at leisure listening to the strokes of a hammer. As the senses in
the lowest state of nature are necessary to direct us to our support, when that support is
once secure, there is danger in following them further; to him who has no rule of action but
the gratification of the senses, plenty is always dangerous. It is therefore necessary to the
happiness of individuals, and still more necessary to the security of society, that the mind
should be elevated to the idea of general beauty, and the contemplation of general truth; by
this pursuit the mind is always carried forward in search of something more excellent than
it finds, and obtains its proper superiority over the common sense of life, by learning to
feel itself capable of higher aims and nobler enjoyments." This is well said. Again.--"Our
art, like all arts which address the imagination, is applied to a somewhat lower faculty of
the mind, which approaches nearer to sensuality, but through sense and fancy it must make its
way to reason. For such is the progress of thought, that we perceive by sense, we combine by
fancy, and distinguish by reason; and without carrying our art out of its natural and true
character, the more we purify it from every thing that is gross in sense, in that proportion
we advance its use and dignity, and in proportion as we lower it to mere sensuality, we pervert
its nature, and degrade it from the rank of a liberal art; and this is what every artist ought
well to remember. Let him remember, also, that he deserves just so much encouragement in the
state as he makes himself a member of it virtuously useful, and contributes in his sphere to
the general purpose and perfection of society." Sir Joshua has been blamed by those who have
taken lower views of art, in that he has exclusively treated of the Great Style, which neither
he nor the academicians of his day practised; but he would have been unworthy the presidential
chair had he taken any other line. His was a noble effort, to assume for art the highest position,
to dignify it in its aim, and thus to honour and improve first his country, then all human
kind. We rise from such passages as these elevated above all that is little. Those only can
feel depressed who would find excuses for the lowness of their pursuits.

       *       *       *       *       *

The TENTH DISCOURSE.--Sir Joshua here treats of Sculpture, a less extensive field than Painting.
The leading principles of both are the same; he considers wherein they agree, and wherein they
differ. Sculpture cannot, "with propriety and best effect, be applied to many subjects." Its
object is "form and character." It has "one style only,"--that one style has relation only
to one style of painting, the Great Style, but that so close as to differ only as operating
upon different materials. He blames the sculptors of the last age, who thought they were improving
by borrowing from the ornamental, incompatible with its essential character. Contrasts, and
the littlenesses of picturesque effects, are injurious to the formality its austere character
requires. As in painting, so more particularly in sculpture, that imitation of nature which
we call illusion, is in no respect its excellence, nor indeed its aim. Were it so, the Venus
di Medici would be improved by colour. It contemplates a higher, a more perfect beauty, more
an intellectual than sensual enjoyment. The boundaries of the art have been long fixed. To
convey "sentiment and character, as exhibited by attitude, and expression of the passions,"
is not within its province. Beauty of form alone, the object of sculpture, "makes of itself
a great work." In proof of which are the designs of Michael Angelo in both arts. As a stronger
instance:--"What artist," says he, "ever looked at the Torso without feeling a warmth of enthusiasm
as from the highest efforts of poetry? From whence does this proceed? What is there in this
fragment that produces this effect, but the perfection of this science of abstract form?" Mr
Burnet has given a plate of the Torso. The expectation of deception, of which few divest themselves,
is an impediment to the judgment, consequently to the enjoyment of sculpture. "Its essence
is correctness." It fully accomplishes its purpose when it adds the "ornament of grace, dignity
of character, and appropriated expression, as in the Apollo, the Venus, the Laocoon, the Moses
of Michael Angelo, and many others." Sir Joshua uses expression as will be afterwards seen,
in a very limited sense. It is necessary to lay down perfect correctness as its essential character;
because, as in the case of the Apollo, many have asserted the beauty to arise from a certain
incorrectness in anatomy and proportion. He denies that there is this incorrectness, and asserts
that there never ought to be; and that even in painting these are not the beauties, but defects,
in the works of Coreggio and Parmegiano. "A supposition of such a monster as Grace begot by
Deformity, is poison to the mind of a young artist." Grace, character, and expression, are
rather in form and attitude than in features; the general figure more presents itself; "it
is there we must principally look for expression or character; patuit in corpore vultus." The
expression in the countenances of the Laocoon and his two sons, though greater than in any
other antique statues, is of pain only; and that is more expressed "by the writhing and contortion
of the body than by the features." The ancient sculptors paid but little regard to features
for their expression, their object being solely beauty of form. John di Bologna, he tells us,
after he had finished a group, called his friends together to tell him what name to give it:
they called it the "Rape of the Sabines." A similar anecdote is told of Sir Joshua himself,
that he had painted the head of the old man who attended him in his studio. Some one observed
that it would make a Ugolino. The sons were added, and it became the well-known historical
picture from Dante. He comments upon the ineffectual attempts of modern sculptors to detach
drapery from the figure, to give it the appearance of flying in the air; to make different
plans on the same bas-relievos; to represent the effects of perspective; to clothe in a modern
dress. For the first attempt he reprehends Bernini, who, from want of a right conception of
the province of sculpture, never fulfilled the promise given in his early work of Apollo and
Daphne. He was ever attempting to make drapery flutter in the air, which the very massiveness
of the material, stone, should seem to forbid. Sir Joshua does not notice the very high authority
for such an attempt--though it must be confessed the material was not stone, still it was sculpture,
and multitudinous are the graces of ornament, and most minutely described--the shield of Hercules,
by Hesiod; even the noise of the furies' wings is affected. The drapery of the Apollo he considers
to have been intended more for support than ornament; but the mantle from the arm he thinks
"answers a much higher purpose, by preventing that dryness of effect which would inevitably
attend a naked arm, extended almost at full length; to which we may add, the disagreeable effect
which would proceed from the body and arm making a right angle." He conjectures that Carlo
Maratti, in his love for drapery, must have influenced the sculptors of the Apostles in the
church of St John Lateran. "The weight and solidity of stone was not to be overcome."

To place figures on different plans is absurd, because they must still appear all equally near
the eye; the sculptor has not adequate means of throwing them back; and, besides, the thus
cutting up into minute parts, destroys grandeur. "Perhaps the only circumstance in which the
modern have excelled the ancient sculptors, is the management of a single group in basso-relievo."
This, he thinks, may have been suggested by the practice of modern painters. The attempt at
perspective must, for the same reason, be absurd; the sculptor has not the means for this "humble
ambition." The ancients represented only the elevation of whatever architecture they introduced
into their bas-reliefs, "which is composed of little more than horizontal and perpendicular
lines." Upon the attempt at modern dress in sculpture, he is severe in his censure. "Working
in stone is a very serious business, and it seems to be scarce worth while to employ such durable
materials in conveying to posterity a fashion, of which the longest existence scarcely exceeds
a year;" and which, he might have added, the succeeding year makes ridiculous. We not only
change our dresses, but laugh at the sight of those we have discarded. The gravity of sculpture
should not be subject to contempt. "The uniformity and simplicity of the materials on which
the sculptor labours, (which are only white marble,) prescribe bounds to his art, and teach
him to confine himself to proportionable simplicity of design." Mr Burnet has not given a better
note than that upon Sir Joshua's remark, that sculpture has but one style. He shows how strongly
the ancient sculptors marked those points wherein the human figure differs from that of other
animals. "Let us take, for example, the human foot; on examining, in the first instance, those
of many animals, we perceive the toes either very long or very short in proportion; of an equal
size nearly, and the claws often long and hooked inwards: now, in rude sculpture, and even
in some of the best of the Egyptians, we find little attempt at giving a character of decided
variation; but, on the contrary, we see the foot split up with toes of an equal length and
thickness; while, in Greek sculpture, these points characteristic of man are increased, that
the affinity to animals may be diminished. In the Greek marbles, the great toe is large and
apart from the others, where the strap of the sandal came; while the others gradually diminish
and sweep round to the outside of the foot, with the greatest regularity of curve; the nails
are short, and the toes broad at the points, indicative of pressure on the ground." Rigidity
he considers to have been the character of the first epochs, changing ultimately as in the
Elgin marbles, "from the hard characteristics of stone to the vivified character of flesh."
He thinks Reynolds "would have acknowledged the supremacy of beautiful nature, uncontrolled
by the severe line of mathematical exactness," had he lived to see the Elgin marbles. "The
outline of life, which changes under every respiration, seems to have undulated under the plastic
mould of Phidias." This is well expressed. He justly animadverts upon the silly fashion of
the day, in lauding the vulgar imitation of the worsted stockings by Thom. The subjects chosen
were most unfit for sculpture,--their only immortality must be in Burns. We do not understand
his extreme admiration of Wilkie; in a note on parallel perspective in sculpture, he adduces
Raffaelle as an example of the practice, and closes by comparing him with Sir David Wilkie,--"known
by the appellation of the Raffaelle of familiar life,"--men perfect antipodes to each other!
There is a proper eulogy on Chantrey, particularly for his busts, in which he commonly represented
the eye. We are most anxious for the arrival of the ancient sculpture from Lycia, collected
and packed for Government by the indefatigable and able traveller, Mr Fellowes.

       *       *       *       *       *

The ELEVENTH DISCOURSE is upon Genius, the particular genius of the painter in his power of
seizing and representing nature, or his subject as a whole. He calls it the "genius of mechanical
performance." This, with little difference, is enforcing what has been laid down in former
Discourses. Indeed, as far as precepts may be required, Sir Joshua had already performed his
task; hence, there is necessary repetition. Yet all is said well, and conviction perpetuates
the impressions previously made. Character is something independent of minute detail; genius
alone knows what constitutes this character, and practically to represent it, is to be a painter
of genius. The impression left upon the mind is not of particulars, when it would seem to be
so; such particulars are taken out of the subject, and are each a whole of themselves. Practically
speaking, as we before observed, genius will be exerted in ascertaining how to paint the "nothing"
in every picture, to satisfy with regard to detail, that neither its absence nor its presence
shall be noticeable.

Our pleasure is not in minute imitation; for, in fact, that is not true imitation, for it forces
upon our notice that which naturally we do not see. We are not pleased with wax-work, which
may be nearer reality; "we are pleased, on the contrary, by seeing ends accomplished by seemingly
inadequate means." If this be sound, we ought to be sensible of the inadequacy of the means,
which sets aside at once the common notion that art is illusion. "The properties of all objects,
as far as the painter is concerned with them, are outline or drawing, the colour, and the light
and shade. The drawing gives the form, the colour its visible quality, and the light and shade
its solidity:" in every one of these the habit of seeing as a whole must be acquired. From
this habit arises the power of imitating by "dexterous methods." He proceeds to show that the
fame of the greatest painters does not rest upon their high finish. Raffaelle and Titian, one
in drawing the other in colour, by no means finished highly; but acquired by their genius an
expressive execution. Most of his subsequent remarks are upon practice in execution and colour,
in contradistinction to elaborate finish. Vasari calls Titian, "giudicioso, bello, e stupendo,"
with regard to this power. He generalized by colour, and by execution. "In his colouring, he
was large and general." By these epithets, we think Sir Joshua has admitted that the great
style comprehends colouring. He condemns that high finish which softens off. "This extreme
softening, instead of producing the effect of softness, gives the appearance of ivory, or some
other hard substance, highly polished. The value set upon drawings, such as of Coreggio and
Parmegiano, which are but slight, show how much satisfaction can be given without high finishing,
or minute attention to particulars. "I wish you to bear in mind, that when I speak of a whole,
I do not mean simply a whole as belonging to composition, but a whole with respect to the general
style of colouring; a whole with regard to light and shade; and a whole of every thing which
may separately become the main object of a painter. He speaks of a landscape painter in Rome,
who endeavoured to represent every individual leaf upon a tree; a few happy touches would have
given a more true resemblance. There is always a largeness and a freedom in happy execution,
that finish can never attain. Sir Joshua says above, that even "unpromising" subjects may be
thus treated. There is a painter commonly thought to have finished highly, by those who do
not look into his manner, whose dexterous, happy execution was perhaps never surpassed; the
consequence is, that there is "a largeness," in all his pictures. We mean Teniers. The effect
of the elaborate work that has been added to his class of subjects, is to make them heavy and
fatiguing to the eye. He praises Titian for the same large manner which he had given to his
history and portraits, applied to his landscapes, and instances the back-ground to the "Peter
Martyr." He recommends the same practice in portrait painting--the first thing to be attained,
is largeness and general effect. The following puts the truth clearly. "Perhaps nothing that
we can say will so clearly show the advantage and excellence of this faculty, as that it confers
the character of genius on works that pretend to no other merit, in which is neither expression,
character, nor dignity, and where none are interested in the subject. We cannot refuse the
character of genius to the 'Marriage' of Paolo Veronese, without opposing the general sense
of mankind, (great authorities have called it the triumph of painting,) or to the Altar of
St Augustine at Antwerp, by Rubens, which equally deserves that title, and for the same reason.
Neither of these pictures have any interesting story to support them. That of Paolo Veronese
is only a representation of a great concourse of people at a dinner; and the subject of Rubens,
if it may be called a subject where nothing is doing, is an assembly of various saints that
lived in different ages. The whole excellence of those pictures consists in mechanical dexterity,
working, however, under the influence of that comprehensive faculty which I have so often mentioned."

The power of a whole is exemplified by the anecdote of a child going through a gallery of old
portraits. She paid very little attention to the finishing, or naturalness of drapery, but
put herself at once to mimic the awkward attitudes. "The censure of nature uninformed, fastened
upon the greatest fault that could be in a picture, because it related to the character and
management of the whole." What he would condemn is that substitute for deep and proper study,
which is to enable the painter to conceive and execute every subject as a whole, and a finish
which Cowley calls "laborious effects of idleness." He concludes this Discourse with some hints
on method of study. Many go to Italy to copy pictures, and derive little advantage. "The great
business of study is, to form a mind adapted and adequate to all times and all occasions, to
which all nature is then laid open, and which may be said to possess the key of her inexhaustible
riches."

Mr Burnet has supplied a plate of the Monk flying from the scene of murder, in Titian's "Peter
Martyr," showing how that great painter could occasionally adopt the style of Michael Angelo
in his forms. In the same note he observes, that Sir Joshua had forgotten the detail of this
picture, which detail is noticed and praised by Algarotti, for its minute discrimination of
leaves and plants, "even to excite the admiration of a botanist."--Sir Joshua said they were
not there. Mr Burnet examined the picture at Paris, and found, indeed, the detail, but adds,
that "they are made out with the same hue as the general tint of the ground, which is a dull
brown," an exemplification of the rule, "Ars est celare artem." Mr Burnet remarks, that there
is the same minute detail in Titian's "Bacchus and Ariadne."--He is right--we have noticed
it, and suspected that it had lost the glazing which had subdued it. As it is, however, it
is not important. Mr Burnet is fearful lest the authority of Sir Joshua should induce a habit
of generalizing too much. He expresses this fear in another note. He says, "the great eagerness
to acquire what the poet calls

        'That voluntary style,
    Which careless plays, and seems to mock at toil,'

and which Reynolds describes as so captivating, has led many a student to commence his career
at the wrong end. They ought to remember, that even Rubens founded this excellence upon years
of laborious and careful study. His picture of himself and his first wife, though the size
of life, exhibits all the detail and finish of Holbein." Sir Joshua nowhere recommends careless
style; on the contrary, he every where urges the student to laborious toil, in order that he
may acquire that facility which Sir Joshua so justly calls captivating, and which afterwards
Rubens himself did acquire, by studying it in the works of Titian and Paul Veronese; and singularly,
in contradiction to his fears and all he would imply, Mr Burnet terminates his passage thus:--"Nor
did he (Rubens) quit the dry manner of Otho Venius, till a contemplation of the works of Titian
and Paul Veronese enabled him to display with rapidity those materials which industry had collected."
It is strange to argue upon the abuse of a precept, by taking it at the wrong end.

       *       *       *       *       *

The TWELFTH DISCOURSE recurs likewise to much that had been before laid down. It treats of
methods of study, upon which he had been consulted by artists about to visit Italy. Particular
methods of study he considers of little consequence; study must not be shackled by too much
method. If the painter loves his art, he will not require prescribed tasks;--to go about which
sluggishly, which he will do if he have another impulse, can be of little advantage. Hence
would follow, as he admirably expresses it, "a reluctant understanding," and a "servile hand."
He supposes, however, the student to be somewhat advanced. The boy, like other school-boys,
must be under restraint, and learn the "Grammar and Rudiments" laboriously. It is not such
who travel for knowledge. The student, he thinks, may be pretty much left to himself; if he
undertake things above his strength, it is better he should run the risk of discouragement
thereby, than acquire "a slow proficiency" by "too easy tasks." He has little confidence in
the efficacy of method, "in acquiring excellence in any art whatever." Methodical studies,
with all their apparatus, enquiry, and mechanical labour, tend too often but "to evade and
shuffle off real labour--the real labour of thinking." He has ever avoided giving particular
directions. He has found students who have imagined they could make "prodigious progress under
some particular eminent master." Such would lean on any but themselves. "After the Rudiments
are past, very little of our art can be taught by others." A student ought to have a just and
manly confidence in himself, "or rather in the persevering industry which he is resolved to
possess." Raffaelle had done nothing, and was quite young, when fixed upon to adorn the Vatican
with his works; he had even to direct the best artists of his age. He had a meek and gentle
disposition, but it was not inconsistent with that manly confidence that insured him success--a
confidence in himself arising from a consciousness of power, and a determination to exert it.
The result is "in perpetuum."--There are, however, artists who have too much self-confidence,
that is ill-founded confidence, founded rather upon a certain dexterity than upon a habit of
thought; they are like the improvisatori in poetry; and most commonly, as Metastasio acknowledged
of himself, had much to unlearn, to acquire a habit of thinking with selection. To be able
to draw and to design with rapidity, is, indeed, to be master of the grammar of art; but in
the completion, and in the final settlement of the design, the portfolio must again and again
have been turned over, and the nicest judgment exercised. This judgment is the result of deep
study and intenseness of thought--thought not only upon the artist's own inventions, but those
of others. Luca Giordano and La Fage are brought as examples of great dexterity and readiness
of invention--but of little selection; for they borrowed very little from others: and still
less will any artist, that can distinguish between excellence and insipidity, ever borrow from
them. Raffaelle, who had no lack of invention, took the greatest pains to select; and when
designing "his greatest as well as latest works, the Cartoons," he had before him studies he
had made from Masaccio. He borrowed from him "two noble figures of St Paul." The only alteration
he made was in the showing both hands, which he thought in a principal figure should never
be omitted. Masaccio's work was well known; Raffaelle was not ashamed to have borrowed. "Such
men, surely, need not be ashamed of that friendly intercourse which ought to exist among artists,
of receiving from the dead, and giving to the living, and perhaps to those who are yet unborn.
'Serpens nisi serpentem comederit, non fit draco.'" The fact is, the most self-sufficient of
men are greater borrowers than they will admit, or perhaps know; their very novelties, if they
have any, commence upon the thoughts of others, which are laid down as a foundation in their
own minds. The common sense, which is called "common property," is that stock which all that
have gone before us have left behind them; and we are but admitted to the heirship of what
they have acquired. Masaccio Sir Joshua considers to have been "one of the great fathers of
modern art." He was the first who gave largeness, and "discovered the path that leads to every
excellence to which the art afterwards arrived." "An artist-like mind" is best formed by studying
the works of great artists. It is a good practice to consider figures in works of great masters
as statues which we may take in any view. This did Raffaelle, in his "Sergius Paulus," from
Masaccio. Lest there should be any misunderstanding of this sort of borrowing, which he justifies,
he again refers to the practice of Raffaelle in this his borrowing from Masaccio. The two figures
of St Paul, he doubted if Raffaelle could have improved; but "he had the address to change
in some measure without diminishing the grandeur of their character." For a serene composed
dignity, he has given animation suited to their employment. "In the same manner, he has given
more animation to the figure of Sergius Paulus, and to that which is introduced in the picture
of Paul preaching, of which little more than hints are given by Masaccio, which Raffaelle has
finished. The closing the eyes of this figure, which in Masaccio might be easily mistaken for
sleeping, is not in the least ambiguous in the Cartoon. His eyes, indeed are closed, but they
are closed with such vehemence, that the agitation of a mind perplexed in the extreme is seen
at the first glance; but what is most extraordinary, and I think particularly to be admired,
is, that the same idea is continued through the whole figure, even to the drapery, which is
so closely muffled about him, that even his hands are not seen: By this happy correspondence
between the expression of the countenance and the disposition of the parts, the figure appears
to think from head to foot. Men of superior talents alone are capable of thus using and adapting
other men's minds to their own purposes, or are able to make out and finish what was only in
the original a hint or imperfect conception. A readiness in taking such hints, which escape
the dull and ignorant, makes, in my opinion, no inconsiderable part of that faculty of mind
which is called genius." He urges the student not even to think himself qualified to invent,
till he is well acquainted with the stores of invention the world possesses; and insists that,
without such study, he will not have learned to select from nature. He has more than once enforced
this doctrine, because it is new. He recommends, even in borrowing, however, an immediate recurrence
to the model, that every thing may be finished from nature. Hence he proceeds to give some
directions for placing the model and the drapery--first to impress upon the model the purpose
of the attitude required--next, to be careful not to alter drapery with the hand, rather trusting,
if defective, to a new cast. There is much in being in the way of accident. To obtain the freedom
of accident Rembrandt put on his colours with his palette-knife; a very common practice at
the present day. "Works produced in an accidental manner will have the same free unrestrained
air as the works of nature, whose particular combinations seem to depend upon accident." He
concludes this Discourse by more strenuously insisting upon the necessity of ever having nature
in view--and warns students by the example of Boucher, Director of the French Academy, whom
he saw working upon a large picture, "without drawings or models of any kind." He had left
off the use of models many years. Though a man of ability, his pictures showed the mischief
of his practice. Mr Burnet's notes to this Discourse add little to the material of criticism;
they do but reiterate in substance what Sir Joshua had himself sufficiently repeated. His object
seems rather to seize an opportunity of expressing his admiration of Wilkie, whom he adduces
as a parallel example with Raffaelle of successful borrowing. It appears from the account given
of Wilkie's process, that he carried the practice much beyond Raffaelle. We cannot conceive
any thing very good coming from so very methodical a manner of setting to work. Would not the
fire of genius be extinguished by the coolness of the process? "When he had fixed upon his
subject, he thought upon all pictures of that class already in existence." The after process
was most elaborate. Now, this we should think a practice quite contrary to Raffaelle's, who
more probably trusted to his own conception for the character of his picture as a whole, and
whose borrowing was more of single figures; but, if of the whole manner of treating his subject,
it is not likely that he would have thought of more than one work for his imitation. The fact
is, Sir David Wilkie's pictures show that he did carry this practice too far--for there is
scarcely a picture of his that does not show patches of imitations, that are not always congruous
with each other; there is too often in one piece, a bit of Rembrandt, a bit of Velasquez, a
bit of Ostade, or others. The most perfect, as a whole, is his "Chelsea Pensioners." We do
not quite understand the brew of study fermenting an accumulation of knowledge, and imagination
exalting it. He speaks of Wilkie attracting the attention of admirers and detractors. It is
very absurd to consider criticism that is not always favourable, detraction. The following
passage is well put. "We constantly hear the ignorant advising a student to study the great
book of nature, without being biassed by what has been done by other painters; it is as absurd
as if they would recommend a youth to learn astronomy by lying in the fields, and looking on
the stars, without reference to the works of Kepler, Tycho Brahe, or of Newton." There is indeed
a world of cant in the present day, that a man must do all to his own unprejudiced reason,
contemning all that has been done before him. We have just now been looking at a pamphlet on
Materialism (a pamphlet of most ambitious verbiage,) in which, with reference to all former
education, we are "the slaves of prejudice;" yet the author modestly requires that minds--we
beg his pardon, we have no minds--intellects must be trained to his mode of thinking, ere they
can arrive at the truth and the perfection of human nature. If this training is prejudice in
one set of teachers, may it not be in another? We continually hear artists recommend nature
without "a prejudice in favour of old masters." Such artists are not likely to eclipse the
fame of those great men, the study of whose works has so long prejudiced the world.

       *       *       *       *       *

The THIRTEENTH DISCOURSE shows that art is not imitation, but is under the influence and direction
of the imagination, and in what manner poetry, painting, acting, gardening, and architecture,
depart from nature. However good it is to study the beauties of artists, this is only to know
art through them. The principles of painting remain to be compared with those of other arts,
all of them with human nature. All arts address themselves only to two faculties of the mind,
its imagination and its sensibility. We have feeling, and an instantaneous judgment, the result
of the experience of life, and reasonings which we cannot trace. It is safer to trust to this
feeling and judgment, than endeavour to control and direct art upon a supposition of what ought
in reason to be the end or means. We should, therefore, most carefully store first impressions.
They are true, though we know not the process by which the first conviction is formed. Partial
and after reasoning often serves to destroy that character, the truth of which came upon us
as with an instinctive knowledge. Sir Joshua again refers to the mistaken views of art, and
taken too by not the poorest minds, "that it entirely or mainly depends on imitation." Plato,
even in this respect, misleads by a partial theory. It is with "such a false view that Cardinal
Bembo has chosen to distinguish even Raffaelle himself, whom our enthusiasm honours with the
name divine. The same sentiment is adopted by Pope in his epitaph on Sir Godfrey Kneller; and
he turns the panegyric solely on imitation as it is a sort of deception." It is, undoubtedly,
most important that the world should be taught to honour art for its highest qualities; until
this is done, the profession will be a degradation. So far from painting being imitation, he
proceeds to show that "it is, and ought to be, in many points of view, and strictly speaking,
no imitation at all of external nature." Civilization is not the gross state of nature; imagination
is the result of cultivation, of civilization; it is to this state of nature art must be more
closely allied. We must not appeal for judgment upon art to those who have not acquired the
faculty to admire. The lowest style of all arts please the uncultivated. But, to speak of the
unnaturalness of art--let it be illustrated by poetry, which speaks in language highly artificial,
and "a construction of measured words, such as never is nor ever was used by man." Now, as
there is in the human mind "a sense of congruity, coherence, and consistency," which must be
gratified; so, having once assumed a language and style not adopted in common discourse, "it
is required that the sentiments also should be in the same proportion raised above common nature."
There must be an agreement of all the parts with the whole. He recognizes the chorus of the
ancient drama, and the recitative of the Italian opera as natural, under this view. "And though
the most violent passions, the highest distress, even death itself, are expressed in singing
or recitative, I would not admit as sound criticism the condemnation of such exhibitions on
account of their being unnatural." "Shall reason stand in the way, and tell us that we ought
not to like what we know we do like, and prevent us from feeling the full effect of this complicated
exertion of art? It appears to us that imagination is that gift to man, to be attained by cultivation,
that enables him to rise above and out of his apparent nature; it is the source of every thing
good and great, we had almost said of every virtue. The parent of all arts, it is of a higher
devotion; it builds and adorns temples more worthy of the great Maker of all, and praises Him
in sounds too noble for the common intercourse and business of life, which demand of the most
cultivated that they put themselves upon a lower level than they are capable of assuming. So
far, therefore, is a servile imitation from being necessary, that whatever is familiar, or
in any way reminds us of what we see and hear every day, perhaps does not belong to the higher
provinces of art, either in poetry or painting. The mind is to be transported, as Shakspeare
expresses it, beyond the ignorant present, to ages past. Another and a higher order of beings
is supposed, and to those beings every thing which is introduced into the work must correspond."
He speaks of a picture by Jan Steen, the "Sacrifice of Iphigenia," wherein the common nature,
with the silks and velvets, would make one think the painter had intended to burlesque his
subject. "Ill taught reason" would lead us to prefer a portrait by Denner to one by Titian
or Vandyke. There is an eloquent passage, showing that landscape painting should in like manner
appeal to the imagination; we are only surprised that the author of this description should
have omitted, throughout these Discourses, the greatest of all landscape painters, whose excellence
he should seem to refer to by his language. "Like the poet, he makes the elements sympathize
with his subject, whether the clouds roll in volumes, like those of Titian or Salvator Rosa--or,
like those of Claude, are gilded with the setting sun; whether the mountains have hidden and
bold projections, or are gently sloped; whether the branches of his trees shoot out abruptly
in right angles from their trunks, or follow each other with only a gentle inclination. All
these circumstances contribute to the general character of the work, whether it be of the elegant
or of the more sublime kind. If we add to this the powerful materials of lightness and darkness,
over which the artist has complete dominion, to vary and dispose them as he pleases--to diminish
or increase them, as will best suit his purpose, and correspond to the general idea of his
work; a landscape, thus conducted, under the influence of a poetical mind, will have the same
superiority over the more ordinary and common views, as Milton's "Allegro" and "Penseroso"
have over a cold prosaic narration or description; and such a picture would make a more forcible
impression on the mind than the real scenes, were they presented before us." We have quoted
the above passage, because it is wanted--we are making great mistakes in that delightful, and
(may we not say?) that high branch of art. He pursues the same argument with regard to acting,
and condemns the ignorant praise bestowed by Fielding on Garrick. Not an idea of deception
enters the mind of actor or author. On the stage, even the expression of strong passion must
be without the natural distortion and screaming voice. Transfer, he observes, acting to a private
room, and it would be ridiculous. "Quid enim deformius, quum scenam in vitam transferre?" Yet
he gives here a caution, "that no art can be grafted with success on another art." "If a painter
should endeavour to copy the theatrical pomp and parade of dress and attitude, instead of that
simplicity which is not a greater beauty in life than it is in painting, we should condemn
such pictures, as painted in the meanest style." What will our academician, Mr Maclise, say
of this remark? He then adduces gardening in support of his theory,--"nature to advantage dressed,"
"beautiful and commodious for the recreation of man." We cannot, however, go with Sir Joshua,
who adds, that "so dressed, it is no longer a subject for the pencil of a landscape painter,
as all landscape painters know." It is certainly unlike the great landscape he has described,
but not very unlike Claude's, nor out of the way of his pencil. We have in our mind's eye a
garden scene by Vander Heyden, most delightful, most elegant. It is some royal garden, with
its proper architecture, the arch, the steps, and balustrades, and marble walks. The queen
of the artificial paradise is entering, and in the shade with her attendants, but she will
soon place her foot upon the prepared sunshine. Courtiers are here and there walking about,
or leaning over the balustrades. All is elegance--a scene prepared for the recreation of pure
and cultivated beings. We cannot say the picture is not landscape. We are sure it gave us ten
times more pleasure than ever we felt from any of our landscape views, with which modern landscape
painting has covered the walls of our exhibitions, and brought into disrepute our "annuals."
He proceeds to architecture, and praises Vanburgh for his poetical imagination; though he,
with Perrault, was a mark for the wits of the day.[11] Sir Joshua points to the façade of the
Louvre, Blenheim, and Castle Howard, as "the fairest ornaments." He finishes this admirable
discourse with the following eloquent passage:--"It is allowed on all hands, that facts and
events, however they may bind the historian, have no dominion over the poet or the painter.
With us history is made to bend and conform to this great idea of art. And why? Because these
arts, in their highest province, are not addressed to the gross senses; but to the desires
of the mind, to that spark of divinity which we have within, impatient of being circumscribed
and pent up by the world which is about us. Just so much as our art has of this, just so much
of dignity, I had almost said of divinity, it exhibits; and those of our artists who possessed
this mark of distinction in the highest degree, acquired from thence the glorious appellation
of divine.

Mr Burnet's notes to this Discourse are not important to art. There is an amusing one on acting,
that discusses the question of naturalness on the stage, and with some pleasant anecdotes.

       *       *       *       *       *

The FOURTEENTH DISCOURSE is chiefly occupied with the character of Gainsborough, and landscape
painting. It has brought about him, and his name, a hornet's nest of critics, in consequence
of some remarks upon a picture of Wilson's. Gainsborough and Sir Joshua, and perhaps in some
degree Wilson, had been rivals. It has been said that Wilson and Gainsborough never liked each
other. It is a well-known anecdote that Sir Joshua, at a dinner, gave the health of Gainsborough,
adding "the greatest landscape painter of the age," to which Wilson, at whom the words were
supposed to be aimed, dryly added, "and the greatest portrait painter too." We can, especially
under circumstances, for there had been a coolness between the President and Gainsborough,
pardon the too favourable view taken of Gainsborough's landscape pictures. He was unquestionably
much greater as a portrait painter. The following account of the interview with Gainsborough
upon his death-bed, is touching, and speaks well of both:--"A few days before he died he wrote
me a letter, to express his acknowledgments for the good opinion I entertained of his abilities,
and the manner in which (he had been informed) I always spoke of him; and desired that he might
see me once before he died. I am aware how flattering it is to myself to be thus connected
with the dying testimony which this excellent painter bore to his art. But I cannot prevail
upon myself to suppress that I was not connected with him by any habits of familiarity. If
any little jealousies had subsisted between us, they were forgotten in these moments of sincerity;
and he turned towards me as one who was engrossed by the same pursuits, and who deserved his
good opinion by being sensible of his excellence. When the Discourse was delivered, Raffaelle
Mengs and Pompeo Batoni were great names. Sir Joshua foretells their fall from that high estimation.
Andrea Sacchi, and "perhaps" Carlo Maratti, he considers the "ultimi Romanorum." He gives some
account of the "customs and habits of this extraordinary man." Gainsborough's love for his
art was remarkable. He was ever remarking to those about him any peculiarity of countenance,
accidental combination of figures, effects of light and shade, in skies, in streets, and in
company. If he met a character he liked, he would send him home to his house. Most of this
is the common routine of every artist's life; the modelling his landscapes in the manner mentioned,
Sir Joshua himself seems to speak doubtingly about. It in fact shows, that in Gainsborough
there was a poverty of invention; his scenes are of the commonest kind, such as few would stop
to admire in nature; and, when we consider the wonderful variety that nature did present to
him, it is strange that his sketches and compositions should have been so devoid of beauty.
He was in the habit of painting by night, a practice which Reynolds recommends, and thought
it must have been the practice of Titian and Coreggio. He might have mentioned the portrait
of Michael Angelo with the candle in his cap and a mallet in his hand. Gainsborough was ambitious
of attaining excellence, regardless of riches. The style chosen by Gainsborough did not require
that he should go out of his own country. No argument is to be drawn from thence, that travelling
is not desirable for those who choose other walks of art--knowing that "the language of the
art must be learned somewhere," he applied himself to the Flemish school, and certainly with
advantage, and occasionally made copies from Rubens, Teniers, and Vandyke. Granting him as
a painter great merit, Sir Joshua doubts whether he excelled most in portraits, landscapes,
or fancy pictures. Few now will doubt upon the subject--next to Sir Joshua, he was the greatest
portrait painter we have had, so as to be justly entitled to the fame of being one of the founders
of the English School. He did not attempt historical painting; and here Sir Joshua contrasts
him with Hogarth; who did so injudiciously. It is strange that Sir Joshua should have characterised
Hogarth as having given his attention to "the Ridicule of Life." We could never see any thing
ridiculous in his deep tragedies. Gainsborough is praised in that he never introduced "mythological
learning" into his pictures. "Our late ingenious academician, Wilson, has, I fear, been guilty,
like many of his predecessors, of introducing gods and goddesses, ideal beings, into scenes
which were by no means prepared to receive such personages. His landscapes were in reality
too near common nature to admit supernatural objects. In consequence of this mistake, in a
very admirable picture of a storm, which I have seen of his hand, many figures are introduced
in the foreground, some in apparent distress, and some struck dead, as a spectator would naturally
suppose, by lightning: had not the painter injudiciously, (as I think,) rather chosen that
their death should be imputed to a little Apollo, who appears in the sky with his bent bow,
and that those figures should be considered as the children of Niobe." This is the passage
that gave so much offence; foolish admirers will fly into flame at the slightest spark--the
question should have been, is the criticism just, not whether Sir Joshua had been guilty of
the same error--but we like critics, the only true critics, who give their reason: and so did
Sir Joshua. "To manage a subject of this kind a peculiar style of art is required; and it can
only be done without impropriety, or even without ridicule, when we adopt the character of
the landscape, and that too in all its parts, to the historical or poetical representation.
This is a very difficult adventure, and requires a mind thrown back two thousand years, like
that of Nicolo Poussin, to achieve it. In the picture alluded to, the first idea that presents
itself is that of wonder, at seeing a figure in so uncommon a situation as that in which Apollo
is placed: for the clouds on which he kneels have not the appearance of being able to support
him--they have neither the substance nor the form fit for the receptacle of a human figure,
and they do not possess, in any respect, that romantic character which is appropriated to such
an object, and which alone can harmonize with poetical stories." We presume Reynolds alludes
to the best of the two Niobes by Wilson--that in the National Gallery. The other is villanously
faulty as a composition, where loaf is piled upon loaf for rock and castle, and the tree is
common and hedge-grown, for the purpose of making gates; but the other would have been a fine
picture, not of the historical class--the parts are all common, the little blown about underwood
is totally deficient in all form and character--rocks and trees, and they do not, as in a former
discourse--Reynolds had laid down that they should--sympathize with the subject; then, as to
the substance of the cloud, he is right--it is not voluminous, it is mere vapour. In the received
adoption of clouds as supporting figures, they are, at least, pillowy, capacious, and round--here
it is quite otherwise; and Sir Joshua might well call it a little Apollo, with that immense
cloud above him, which is in fact too much a portrait of a cloud, too peculiar, too edgy, for
any subject where the sky is not to be all in all. We do not say it is not fine and grand,
and what you please; but it is not subordinate, it casts its lightning as from its own natural
power, there was no need of a god's assistance.

    "Nec Deus intersit nisi dignus vindice nodus;"

and the action does not take place in a "prepared" landscape. There is nothing to take us back
to a fabled age. Reynolds is not unjust to Wilson's merits, for he calls it, notwithstanding
this defect, "a very admirable picture;" which picture will, we suspect, in a few years lose
its principal charm, if it has not lost it; the colour is sadly changing, there is now little
aerial in the sky. It is said of Wilson, that he ridiculed the experiments of Sir Joshua, and
spoke of using nothing but "honest linseed"--to which, however, he added varnishes and wax,
as will easily be seen in those pictures of his which have so cracked--and now lose their colour.
"Honest" linseed appears to have played him a sad trick, or he to have played a trick upon
honest linseed. Sir Joshua, however, to his just criticism, adds the best precept, example--and
instances two pictures, historical landscape, "Jacob's Dream"--which was exhibited a year or
two ago in the Institution, Pall-Mall--by Salvator Rosa, and the picture by Sebastian Bourdon,
"The Return of the Ark from Captivity," now in the National Gallery. The latter picture, as
a composition, is not perhaps good--it is cut up into too many parts, and those parts are not
sufficiently poetical; in its hue, it may be appropriate. The other, "Jacob's Dream" is one
of the finest by the master--there is an extraordinary boldness in the clouds, an uncommon
grandeur, strongly marked, sentient of angelic visitants. This picture has been recently wretchedly
engraved in mezzotinto; all that is in the picture firm and hard, is in the print soft, fuzzy,
and disagreeable. Sir Joshua treats very tenderly the mistaken manner of Gainsborough in his
late pictures, the "odd scratches and marks." The heavy negligence happily describes the fault
of the manner. It is horribly manifest in that magnitude of vulgarity for landscape, the "Market
Cart" in our National Gallery, and purchased at we know not what vast sum, and presented by
the governors of the institution to the nation. We have a very high opinion of the genius of
Gainsborough; but we do not see it in his landscapes, with very few exceptions. His portraits
have an air of truth never exceeded, and that set off with great power and artistical skill;
and his rustic children are admirable. He stands alone, and never has had a successful imitator.
The mock sentimentality, the affected refinement, which has been added to his simple style
by other artists, is disgusting in the extreme. Gainsborough certainly studied colour with
great success. He is both praised and blamed for a lightness of manner and effect possessed
"to an unexampled degree of excellence;" but "the sacrifice which he made, to this ornament
of our art, was too great." We confess we do not understand Sir Joshua, nor can we reconcile
"the heavy negligence" with this "lightness of manner." Mr Burnet, in one of his notes, compares
Wilson with Gainsborough; he appears to give the preference to Wilson--why does he not compare
Gainsborough with Sir Joshua himself? the rivalry should have been in portrait. There is a
long note upon Sir Joshua's remarks upon Wilson's "Niobe." We are not surprised at Cunningham's
"Castigation." He did not like Sir Joshua, and could not understand nor value his character.
This is evident in his Life of the President. Cunningham must have had but an ill-educated
classic eye when he asserted so grandiloquently,--"He rose at once from the tame insipidity
of common scenery into natural grandeur and magnificence; his streams seem all abodes for nymphs,
his hills are fit haunts for the muses, and his temples worthy of gods,"--a passage, we think,
most worthy the monosyllable commonly used upon such occasions by the manly and simple-minded
Mr Burchell. That Sir Joshua occasionally transgressed in his wanderings into mythology, it
would be difficult to deny; nor was it his only transgression from his legitimate ground, as
may be seen in his "Holy Family" in the National Gallery. But we doubt if the critique upon
his "Mrs Siddons" is quite fair. The chair and the footstool may not be on the cloud, a tragic
and mysterious vapour reconciling the bodily presence of the muse with the demon and fatal
ministers of the drama that attend her. Though Sir Joshua's words are here brought against
him, it is without attention to their application in his critique, which condemned their form
and character as not historical nor voluminous--faults that do not attach to the clouds, if
clouds they must be in the picture (the finest of Sir Joshua's works) of Mrs Siddons as the
Tragic Muse. It is not our business to enter upon the supposed fact, that Sir Joshua was jealous
of Wilson; the one was a polished, the other perhaps a somewhat coarse man. We have only to
see if the criticism be just. In this Discourse Sir Joshua has the candour to admit, that there
were at one time jealousies between him and Gainsborough; there may have been between him and
Wilson, but, at all events, we cannot take a just criticism as a proof of it, or we must convict
him, and all others too, of being jealous of artists and writers whose works they in any manner
censure.

       *       *       *       *       *

The FIFTEENTH DISCOURSE.--We come now to Sir Joshua's last Discourse, in which the President
takes leave of the Academy, reviews his "Discourses," and concludes with recommending the study
of Michael Angelo.

Having gone along with the President of the Academy in the pursuit of the principles of the
art in these Discourses, and felt a portion of the enthusiasm which he felt, and knew so well
how to impart to others, we come to this last Discourse, with a melancholy knowledge that it
was the last; and reflect with pain upon that cloud which so soon interposed between Reynolds
and at least the practical enjoyment of his art. He takes leave of the Academy affectionately,
and, like a truth-loving man to the last, acknowledges the little contentions (in so softening
a manner does he speak of the "rough hostility of Barry," and "oppositions of Gainsborough")
which "ought certainly," says he, "to be lost among ourselves in mutual esteem for talents
and acquirements: every controversy ought to be--I am persuaded will be--sunk in our zeal for
the perfection of our common art." "My age, and my infirmities still more than my age, make
it probable that this will be the last time I shall have the honour of addressing you from
this place." This last visit seemed to be threatened with a tragical end;--the circumstance
showed the calm mind of the President; it was characteristic of the man who would die with
dignity, and gracefully. A large assembly were present, of rank and importance, besides the
students. The pressure was great--a beam in the floor gave way with a loud crash; a general
rush was made to the door, all indiscriminately falling one over the other, except the President,
who kept his seat "silent and unmoved." The floor only sunk a little, was soon supported, and
Sir Joshua recommenced his Discourse.

    "Justum et tenacem propositi
    Impavidum ferient ruinæ."

He compliments the Academy upon the ability of the professors, speaks with diffidence of his
power as a writer, (the world has in this respect done him justice;) but that he had come not
unprepared upon the subject of art, having reflected much upon his own and the opinions of
others. He found in the art many precepts and rules, not reconcilable with each other. "To
clear away those difficulties and reconcile those contrary opinions, it became necessary to
distinguish the greater truth, as it may be called, from the lesser truth; the larger and more
liberal idea of nature from the more narrow and confined: that which addresses itself to the
imagination, from that which is solely addressed to the eye. In consequence of this discrimination,
the different branches of our art to which those different truths were referred, were perceived
to make so wide a separation, and put on so new an appearance, that they seemed scarcely to
have proceeded from the same general stock. The different rules and regulations which presided
over each department of art, followed of course; every mode of excellence, from the grand style
of the Roman and Florentine schools down to the lowest rank of still life, had its due weight
and value--fitted to some class or other; and nothing was thrown away. By this disposition
of our art into classes, that perplexity and confusion, which I apprehend every artist has
at some time experienced from the variety of styles, and the variety of excellence with which
he is surrounded, is, I should hope, in some measure removed, and the student better enabled
to judge for himself what peculiarly belongs to his own particular pursuit." Besides the practice
of art, the student must think, and speculate, and consider "upon what ground the fabric of
our art is built." An artist suffers throughout his whole life, from uncertain, confused, and
erroneous opinions. We are persuaded there would be fewer fatal errors were these Discourses
more in the hands of our present artists--"Nocturnâ versate manu, versate diurnâ."--An example
is given of the mischief of erroneous opinions. "I was acquainted at Rome, in the early part
of my life, with a student of the French Academy, who appeared to me to possess all the qualities
requisite to make a great artist, if he had suffered his taste and feelings, and I may add
even his prejudices, to have fair play. He saw and felt the excellences of the great works
of art with which we were surrounded, but lamented that there was not to be found that nature
which is so admirable in the inferior schools,--and he supposed with Felebien, Du Piles, and
other theorists, that such an union of different excellences would be the perfection of art.
He was not aware that the narrow idea of nature, of which he lamented the absence in the works
of those great artists, would have destroyed the grandeur of the general ideas which he admired,
and which was indeed the cause of his admiration. My opinions being then confused and unsettled,
I was in danger of being borne down by this plausible reasoning, though I remember I then had
a dawning suspicion that it was not sound doctrine; and at the same time I was unwilling obstinately
to refuse assent to what I was unable to confute." False and low views of art are now so commonly
taken both in and out of the profession, that we have not hesitated to quote the above passage;
the danger Sir Joshua confesses he was in, is common, and demands the warning. To make it more
direct we should add, "Read his Discourses." Again, without intending to fetter the student's
mind to a particular method of study, he urges the necessity and wisdom of previously obtaining
the appropriated instruments of art, in a first correct design, and a plain manly colouring,
before any thing more is attempted. He does not think it, however, of very great importance
whether or not the student aim first at grace and grandeur before he has learned correctness,
and adduces the example of Parmegiano, whose first public work was done when a boy, the "St
Eustachius" in the Church of St Petronius, in Bologna--one of his last is the "Moses breaking
the Tables," in Parma. The former has grandeur and incorrectness, but "discovers the dawnings
of future greatness." In mature age he had corrected his defects, and the drawing of his Moses
was equally admirable with the grandeur of the conception--an excellent plate is given of this
figure by Mr Burnet. The fact is, the impulse of the mind is not to be too much restrained--it
is better to give it its due and first play, than check it until it has acquired correctness--good
sense first or last, and a love of the art, will generally insure correctness in the end; the
impulses often checked, come with weakened power, and ultimately refuse to come at all; and
each time that they depart unsatisfied, unemployed, take away with them as they retire a portion
of the fire of genius. Parmegiano formed himself upon Michael Angelo: Michael Angelo brought
the art to a "sudden maturity," as Homer and Shakspeare did theirs. "Subordinate parts of our
art, and perhaps of other arts, expand themselves by a slow and progressive growth; but those
which depend on a native vigour of imagination, generally burst forth at once in fulness of
beauty." Correctness of drawing and imagination, the one of mechanical genius the other of
poetic, undoubtedly work together for perfection--"a confidence in the mechanic produces a
boldness in the poetic." He expresses his surprise that the race of painters, before Michael
Angelo, never thought of transferring to painting the grandeur they admired in ancient sculpture.
"Raffaelle himself seemed to be going on very contentedly in the dry manner of Pietro Perugino;
and if Michael Angelo had never appeared, the art might still have continued in the same style."
"On this foundation the Caracci built the truly great academical Bolognian school; of which
the first stone was laid by Pellegrino Tibaldi." The Caracci called him "nostro Michael Angelo
riformato." His figure of Polyphemus, which had been attributed to Michael Angelo in Bishop's
"Ancient Statues," is given in a plate by Mr Burnet. The Caracci he considers sufficiently
succeeded in the mechanical, not in "the divine part which addresses itself to the imagination,"
as did Tibaldi and Michael Angelo. They formed, however, a school that was "most respectable,"
and "calculated to please a greater number." The Venetian school advanced "the dignity of their
style, by adding to their fascinating powers of colouring something of the strength of Michael
Angelo." Here Sir Joshua seems to contradict his former assertion; but as he is here abridging,
as it were, his whole Discourses, he cannot avoid his own observations. It was a point, however,
upon which he was still doubtful; for he immediately adds--"At the same time it may still be
a doubt, how far their ornamental elegance would be an advantageous addition to his grandeur.
But if there is any manner of painting, which may be said to unite kindly with his (Michael
Angelo's) style, it is that of Titian. His handling, the manner in which his colours are left
on the canvass, appears to proceed (as far as that goes) from congenial mind, equally disdainful
of vulgar criticism. He is reminded of a remark of Johnson's, that Pope's Homer, had it not
been clothed with graces and elegances not in Homer, would have had fewer readers, thus justifying
by example and authority of Johnson, the graces of the Venetian school. Some Flemish painters
at "the great era of our art" took to their country "as much of this grandeur as they could
carry." It did not thrive, but "perhaps they contributed to prepare the way for that free,
unconstrained, and liberal outline, which was afterwards introduced by Rubens, through the
medium of the Venetian painters." The grandeur of style first discovered by Michael Angelo
passed through Europe, and totally "changed the whole character and style of design. His works
excite the same sensation as the Epic of Homer. The Sybils, the statue of Moses, "come nearer
to a comparison with his Jupiter, his demigods, and heroes; those Sybils and prophets being
a kind of intermediate beings between men and angels. Though instances may be produced in the
works of other painters, which may justly stand in competition with those I have mentioned,
such as the 'Isaiah,' and 'Vision of Ezekiel,' by Raffaelle, the 'St Mark' of Frate Bartolomeo,
and many others; yet these, it must be allowed, are inventions so much in Michael Angelo's
manner of thinking, that they may be truly considered as so many rays which discover manifestly
the centre from whence they emanated." The style of Michael Angelo is so highly artificial
that the mind must be cultivated to receive it; having once received it, the mind is improved
by it, and cannot go very far back. Hence the hold this great style has had upon all who are
most learned in art, and upon nearly all painters in the best time of art. As art multiplies,
false tastes will arise, the early painters had not so much to unlearn as modern artists. Where
Michael Angelo is not felt, there is a lost taste to recover. Sir Joshua recommends young artists
to follow Michael Angelo as he did the ancient sculptors. "He began, when a child, a copy of
a mutilated Satyr's head, and finished in his model what was wanting in the original." So would
he recommend the student to take his figures from Michael Angelo, and to change, and alter,
and add other figures till he has caught the manner. Change the purpose, and retain the attitude,
as did Titian. By habit of seeing with this eye of grandeur, he will select from nature all
that corresponds with this taste. Sir Joshua is aware that he is laying himself open to sarcasm
by his advice, but asserts the courage becoming a teacher addressing students: "they both must
equally dare, and bid defiance to narrow criticism and vulgar opinion." It is the conceited
who think that art is nothing but inspiration; and such appropriate it in their own estimation;
but it is to be learned,--if so, the right direction to it is of vast importance; and once
in the right direction, labour and study will accomplish the better aspirations of the artist.
Michael Angelo said of Raffaelle, that he possessed not his art by nature but by long study.
"Che Raffaelle non ebbe quest' arte da natura, ma per longo studio." Raffaelle and Michael
Angelo were rivals, but ever spoke of each other with the respect and veneration they felt,
and the true meaning of the passage was to the praise of Raffaelle; those were not the days
when men were ashamed of being laborious,--and Raffaelle himself "thanked God that he was born
in the same age with that painter."--"I feel a self-congratulation," adds Sir Joshua, "in knowing
myself capable of such sensations as he intended to excite. I reflect, not without vanity,
that these Discourses bear testimony of my admiration of that truly divine man; and I should
desire that the last words which I should pronounce in this Academy, and from this place, might
be the name of Michael Angelo." They were his last words from the academical chair. He died
about fourteen months after the delivery of this Discourse. Mr Burnet has given five excellent
plates to this Discourse--one from Parmegiano, one from Tibaldi, one from Titian, one from
Raffaelle, and one from Michael Angelo. Mr Burnet's first note repeats what we have again and
again elsewhere urged, the advantage of establishing at our universities, Oxford and Cambridge,
Professorships of Painting--infinite would be the advantage to art, and to the public. We do
not despair. Mr Burnet seems to fear incorrect drawing will arise from some passages, which
he supposes encourages it, in these Discourses; and fearing it, very properly endeavours to
correct the error in a note. We had intended to conclude this paper with some few remarks upon
Sir Joshua, his style, and influence upon art, but we have not space. Perhaps we may fulfil
this part of our intention in another number of Maga.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE YOUNG GREY HEAD.

        Grief hath been known to turn the young head grey--
        To silver over in a single day
        The bright locks of the beautiful, their prime
        Scarcely o'erpast: as in the fearful time
        Of Gallia's madness, that discrownèd head
        Serene, that on the accursed altar bled
        Miscall'd of Liberty. Oh! martyr'd Queen!
        What must the sufferings of that night have been--
        That one--that sprinkled thy fair tresses o'er
        With time's untimely snow! But now no more
        Lovely, august, unhappy one! of thee--
        I have to tell an humbler history;
        A village tale, whose only charm, in sooth,
        (If any) will be sad and simple truth.

        "Mother," quoth Ambrose to his thrifty dame--
        So oft our peasant's use his wife to name,
        "Father" and "Master" to himself applied,
        As life's grave duties matronize the bride--
        "Mother," quoth Ambrose, as he faced the north,
        With hard-set teeth, before he issued forth
        To his day labour, from the cottage door--
        "I'm thinking that, to-night, if not before,
        There'll be wild work. Dost hear old Chewton[12] roar?
        It's brewing up down westward; and look there,
        One of those sea-gulls! ay, there goes a pair;
        And such a sudden thaw! If rain comes on,
        As threats, the waters will be out anon.
        That path by th' ford's a nasty bit of way--
        Best let the young ones bide from school to-day."

        "Do, mother, do!" the quick-ear'd urchins cried;
        Two little lasses to the father's side
        Close clinging, as they look'd from him, to spy
        The answering language of the mother's eye.
        There was denial, and she shook her head:
        "Nay, nay--no harm will come to them," she said,
        "The mistress lets them off these short dark days
        An hour the earlier; and our Liz, she says,
        May quite be trusted--and I know 'tis true--
        To take care of herself and Jenny too.
        And so she ought--she's seven come first of May--
        Two years the oldest: and they give away
        The Christmas bounty at the school to-day."

        The mother's will was law, (alas for her
        That hapless day, poor soul!) She could not err,
        Thought Ambrose; and his little fair-hair'd Jane
        (Her namesake) to his heart he hugg'd again,
        When each had had her turn; she clinging so
        As if that day she could not let him go.
        But Labour's sons must snatch a hasty bliss
        In nature's tend'rest mood. One last fond kiss,
        "God bless my little maids!" the father said,
        And cheerly went his way to win their bread.
        Then might be seen, the playmate parent gone,
        What looks demure the sister pair put on--
        Not of the mother as afraid, or shy,
        Or questioning the love that could deny;
        But simply, as their simple training taught,
        In quiet, plain straightforwardness of thought,
        (Submissively resign'd the hope of play,)
        Towards the serious business of the day. Not that wherein we trace
        (Shame to our land, our rulers, and our race!)
        The unnatural sufferings of the factory child,
        But a staid quietness, reflective, mild,
        Betokening, in the depths of those young eyes,
        Sense of life's cares, without its miseries.

        So to the mother's charge, with thoughtful brow,
        The docile Lizzy stood attentive now;
        Proud of her years and of imputed sense,
        And prudence justifying confidence--
        And little Jenny, more demurely still,
        Beside her waited the maternal will.
        So standing hand in hand, a lovelier twain
        Gainsb'rough ne'er painted: no--nor he of Spain,
        Glorious Murillo!--and by contrast shown
        More beautiful. The younger little one,
        With large blue eyes, and silken ringlets fair,
        By nut-brown Lizzy, with smooth parted hair,
        Sable and glossy as the raven's wing,
        And lustrous eyes as dark.

                               "Now, mind and bring
        Jenny safe home," the mother said--"don't stay
        To pull a bough or berry by the way:
        And when you come to cross the ford, hold fast
        Your little sister's hand, till you're quite past--
        That plank's so crazy, and so slippery
        (If not o'erflowed) the stepping-stones will be.
        But you're good children--steady as old folk,
        I'd trust ye any where." Then Lizzy's cloak,
        A good grey duffle, lovingly she tied,
        And amply little Jenny's lack supplied
        With her own warmest shawl. "Be sure," said she,
        "To wrap it round and knot it carefully
        (Like this) when you come home; just leaving free
        One hand to hold by. Now, make haste away--
        Good will to school, and then good right to play."

        Was there no sinking at the mother's heart,
        When all equipt, they turn'd them to depart?
        When down the lane, she watch'd them as they went
        Till out of sight, was no forefeeling sent
        Of coming ill? In truth I cannot tell:
        Such warnings have been sent, we know full well,
        And must believe--believing that they are--
        In mercy then--to rouse--restrain--prepare.

        And, now I mind me, something of the kind
        Did surely haunt that day the mother's mind,
        Making it irksome to bide all alone
        By her own quiet hearth. Tho' never known
        For idle gossipry was Jenny Gray,
        Yet so it was, that morn she could not stay
        At home with her own thoughts, but took her way
        To her next neighbour's, half a loaf to borrow--
        Yet might her store have lasted out the morrow.
        --And with the loan obtain'd, she linger'd still--
        Said she--"My master, if he'd had his will,
        Would have kept back our little ones from school
        This dreadful morning; and I'm such a fool,
        Since they've been gone, I've wish'd them back. But then
        It won't do in such things to humour men--
        Our Ambrose specially. If let alone
        He'd spoil those wenches. But it's coming on,
        That storm he said was brewing, sure enough--
        Well! what of that?--To think what idle stuff
        Will come into one's head! and here with you
        I stop, as if I'd nothing else to do--
        And they'll come home drown'd rats. I must be gone
        To get dry things, and set the kettle on."

        His day's work done, three mortal miles and more
        Lay between Ambrose and his cottage door.
        A weary way, God wot! for weary wight!
        But yet far off, the curling smoke in sight
        From his own chimney, and his heart felt light.
        How pleasantly the humble homestead stood,
        Down the green lane by sheltering Shirley Wood!
        How sweet the wafting of the evening breeze
        In spring-time, from his two old cherry-trees
        Sheeted with blossom! And in hot July
        From the brown moor-track, shadowless and dry,
        How grateful the cool covert to regain
        Of his own avenue--that shady lane,
        With the white cottage, in a slanting glow
        Of sunset glory, gleaming bright below,
        And jasmine porch, his rustic portico!

        With what a thankful gladness in his face,
        (Silent heart-homage--plant of special grace!)
        At the lane's entrance, slackening oft his pace,
        Would Ambrose send a loving look before;
        Conceiting the caged blackbird at the door,
        The very blackbird, strain'd its little throat
        In welcome, with a more rejoicing note;
        And honest Tinker! dog of doubtful breed,
        All bristle, back, and tail, but "good at need,"
        Pleasant his greeting to the accustomed ear;
        But of all welcomes pleasantest, most dear,
        The ringing voices, like sweet silver bells,
        Of his two little ones. How fondly swells
        The father's heart, as, dancing up the lane,
        Each clasps a hand in her small hand again;
        And each must tell her tale, and "say her say,"
        Impeding as she leads, with sweet delay,
        (Childhood's blest thoughtlessness!) his onward way.

        And when the winter day closed in so fast,
        Scarce for his task would dreary daylight last;
        And in all weathers--driving sleet and snow--
        Home by that bare, bleak moor-track must he go,
        Darkling and lonely. Oh! the blessed sight
        (His pole-star) of that little twinkling light
        From one small window, thro' the leafless trees,
        Glimmering so fitfully; no eye but his
        Had spied it so far off. And sure was he,
        Entering the lane, a steadier beam to see,
        Ruddy and broad as peat-fed hearth could pour,
        Streaming to meet him from the open door.
        Then, tho' the blackbird's welcome was unheard--
        Silenced by winter--note of summer bird
        Still hail'd him from no mortal fowl alive,
        But from the cuckoo-clock just striking five--
        And Tinker's ear and Tinker's nose were keen--
        Off started he, and then a form was seen
        Dark'ning the doorway; and a smaller sprite,
        And then another, peer'd into the night,
        Ready to follow free on Tinker's track,
        But for the mother's hand that held her back;
        And yet a moment--a few steps--and there,
        Pull'd o'er the threshold by that eager pair,
        He sits by his own hearth, in his own chair;
        Tinker takes post beside, with eyes that say,
        "Master! we've done our business for the day."
        The kettle sings, the cat in chorus purs,
        The busy housewife with her tea-things stirs;
        The door's made fast, the old stuff curtain drawn;
        How the hail clatters! Let it clatter on.
        How the wind raves and rattles! What cares he?
        Safe housed, and warm beneath his own roof-tree,
        With a wee lassie prattling on each knee.

        Such was the hour--hour sacred and apart--
        Warm'd in expectancy the poor man's heart.
        Summer and winter, as his toil he plied,
        To him and his the literal doom applied,
        Pronounced on Adam. But the bread was sweet
        So earn'd, for such dear mouths. The weary feet
        Hope-shod, stept lightly on the homeward way;
        So specially it fared with Ambrose Gray
        That time I tell of. He had work'd all day
        At a great clearing: vig'rous stroke on stroke
        Striking, till, when he stopt, his back seem'd broke,
        And the strong arm dropt nerveless. What of that?
        There was a treasure hidden in his hat--
        A plaything for the young ones. He had found
        A dormouse nest; the living ball coil'd round
        For its long winter sleep; and all his thought
        As he trudged stoutly homeward, was of nought
        But the glad wonderment in Jenny's eyes,
        And graver Lizzy's quieter surprize,
        When he should yield, by guess, and kiss, and prayer,
        Hard won, the frozen captive to their care.

        'Twas a wild evening--wild and rough. "I knew,"
        Thought Ambrose, "those unlucky gulls spoke true--
        And Gaffer Chewton never growls for nought--
        I should be mortal 'mazed now, if I thought
        My little maids were not safe housed before
        That blinding hail-storm--ay, this hour and more--
        Unless, by that old crazy bit of board,
        They've not passed dry-foot over Shallow-ford,
        That I'll be bound for--swollen as it must be ...
        Well! if my mistress had been ruled by me ..."
        But, checking the half-thought as heresy,
        He look'd out for the Home-Star. There it shone,
        And with a gladden'd heart he hasten'd on.

        He's in the lane again--and there below,
        Streams from the open doorway that red glow,
        Which warms him but to look at. For his prize
        Cautious he feels--all safe and snug it lies--
        "Down Tinker!--down, old boy!--not quite so free--
        The thing thou sniffest is no game for thee.--
        But what's the meaning?--no look-out to-night!
        No living soul a-stir!--Pray God, all's right!
        Who's flittering round the peat-stack in such weather?
        Mother!" you might have fell'd him with a feather
        When the short answer to his loud--"Hillo!"
        And hurried question--"Are they come?"--was--"No."

        To throw his tools down--hastily unhook
        The old crack'd lantern from its dusty nook,
        And while he lit it, speak a cheering word,
        That almost choked him, and was scarcely heard,
        Was but a moment's act, and he was gone
        To where a fearful foresight led him on.
        Passing a neighbour's cottage in his way--
        Mark Fenton's--him he took with short delay
        To bear him company--for who could say
        What need might be? They struck into the track
        The children should have taken coming back
        From school that day; and many a call and shout
        Into the pitchy darkness they sent out,
        And, by the lantern light, peer'd all about,
        In every road-side thicket, hole, and nook,
        Till suddenly--as nearing now the brook--
        Something brush'd past them. That was Tinker's bark--
        Unheeded, he had follow'd in the dark,
        Close at his master's heels, but, swift as light,
        Darted before them now. "Be sure he's right--
        He's on the track," cried Ambrose. "Hold the light
        Low down--he's making for the water. Hark!
        I know that whine--the old dog's found them, Mark."
        So speaking, breathlessly he hurried on
        Toward the old crazy foot-bridge. It was gone!
        And all his dull contracted light could show
        Was the black void and dark swollen stream below.
        "Yet there's life somewhere--more than Tinker's whine--
        That's sure," said Mark. "So, let the lantern shine
        Down yonder. There's the dog--and, hark!"

                                      "Oh dear!"
        And a low sob came faintly on the ear,
        Mock'd by the sobbing gust. Down, quick as thought,
        Into the stream leapt Ambrose, where he caught
        Fast hold of something--a dark huddled heap--
        Half in the water, where 'twas scarce knee-deep,
        For a tall man; and half above it, propp'd
        By some old ragged side-piles, that had stopt
        Endways the broken plank, when it gave way
        With the two little ones that luckless day!
        "My babes!--my lambkins!" was the father's cry.
        One little voice made answer--"Here am I!"
        'Twas Lizzy's. There she crouch'd, with face as white,
        More ghastly, by the flickering lantern-light,
        Than sheeted corpse. The pale blue lips, drawn tight,
        Wide parted, showing all the pearly teeth,
        And eyes on some dark object underneath,
        Wash'd by the turbid water, fix'd like stone--
        One arm and hand stretch'd out, and rigid grown,
        Grasping, as in the death-gripe--Jenny's frock.
        There she lay drown'd. Could he sustain that shock,
        The doating father? Where's the unriven rock
        Can bide such blasting in its flintiest part
        As that soft sentient thing--the human heart?

        They lifted her from out her wat'ry bed--
        Its covering gone, the lonely little head
        Hung like a broken snowdrop all aside--
        And one small hand. The mother's shawl was tied,
        Leaving that free, about the child's small form,
        As was her last injunction--"fast and warm"--
        Too well obeyed--too fast! A fatal hold
        Affording to the scrag by a thick fold
        That caught and pinn'd her in the river's bed,
        While through the reckless water overhead
        Her life-breath bubbled up.

                                "She might have lived
        Struggling like Lizzy," was the thought that rived
        The wretched mother's heart when she knew all.
        "But for my foolishness about that shawl--
        And Master would have kept them back the day;
        But I was wilful--driving them away
        In such wild weather!"

                           Thus the tortured heart,
        Unnaturally against itself takes part,
        Driving the sharp edge deeper of a woe
        Too deep already. They had raised her now,
        And parting the wet ringlets from her brow,
        To that, and the cold cheek, and lips as cold,
        The father glued his warm ones, ere they roll'd
        Once more the fatal shawl--her winding-sheet--
        About the precious clay. One heart still beat,
        Warm'd by his heart's blood. To his only child
        He turn'd him, but her piteous moaning mild
        Pierced him afresh--and now she knew him not.--
        "Mother!"--she murmur'd--"who says I forgot?
        Mother! indeed, indeed, I kept fast hold,
        And tied the shawl quite close--she can't be cold--
        But she won't move--we slipt--I don't know how--
        But I held on--and I'm so weary now--
        And it's so dark and cold! oh dear! oh dear!--
        And she won't move--if daddy was but here!"

           *       *       *       *       *

        Poor lamb--she wander'd in her mind, 'twas clear--
        But soon the piteous murmur died away,
        And quiet in her father's arms she lay--
        They their dead burthen had resign'd, to take
        The living so near lost. For her dear sake,
        And one at home, he arm'd himself to bear
        His misery like a man--with tender care,
        Doffing his coat her shivering form to fold--
        (His neighbour bearing that which felt no cold,)
        He clasp'd her close--and so, with little said,
        Homeward they bore the living and the dead.

        From Ambrose Gray's poor cottage, all that night,
        Shone fitfully a little shifting light,
        Above--below:--for all were watchers there,
        Save one sound sleeper.--Her, parental care,
        Parental watchfulness, avail'd not now.
        But in the young survivor's throbbing brow,
        And wandering eyes, delirious fever burn'd;
        And all night long from side to side she turn'd,
        Piteously plaining like a wounded dove,
        With now and then the murmur--"She won't move"--
        And lo! when morning, as in mockery, bright
        Shone on that pillow, passing strange the sight--
        That young head's raven hair was streak'd with white!
        No idle fiction this. Such things have been
        We know. And now I tell what I have seen.

        Life struggled long with death in that small frame,
        But it was strong, and conquer'd. All became
        As it had been with the poor family--
        All--saving that which never more might be--
        There was an empty place--they were but three.

C.

     [12] A fresh-water spring rushing into the sea called Chewton
     Bunny.

       *       *       *       *       *

IMAGINARY CONVERSATION. BY WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR.

     [13] See Forster's Life of Cromwell.

     [15] Chapman's Homer, first book.

       *       *       *       *       *

CALEB STUKELY.

PART XI.

SAINTS AND SINNERS.

The history of my youth is the history of my life. My contemporaries were setting out on their
journey when my pilgrimage was at an end. I had drained the cup of experience before other
men had placed it to their lips. The vicissitudes of all seasons occurred in one, and, before
my spring had closed, I had felt the winter's gloominess and cold. The scattered and separated
experiences that diversify and mark the passage of the "threescore years and ten," were collected
and thrust into the narrow period of my nonage. Within that boundary, existence was condensed.
It was the time of action and of suffering. I have passed from youth to maturity and decline
gently and passively; and now, in the cool and quiet sunset, I repose, connected with the past
only by the adhering memories that will not be excluded from my solitude. I have gathered upon
my head the enduring snow of age; but it has settled there in its natural course, with no accompaniment
of storm and tempest. I look back to the land over which I have journeyed, and through which
I have been conveyed to my present humble resting-place, and I behold a broad extent of plain,
spreading from my very feet, into the hazy distance, where all is cloud, mountain, tumult,
and agitation. Heaven be praised, I can look back with gratitude, chastened and informed!

Amongst all the startling and stirring events that crowded into the small division of time
to which I refer, none had so confounded, perplexed, alarmed, and grieved me, as the discovery
of Mr Clayton's criminality and falsehood. There are mental and moral concussions, which, like
physical shocks, stun and stupify with their suddenness and violence. This was one of them.
Months after I had been satisfied of his obliquity, it was difficult to realize the conviction
that truth and justice authoritatively demanded. When I thought of the minister--when his form
presented itself to my mind's eye, as it did, day after day, and hour after hour, it was impossible
to contemplate it with the aversion and distaste which were the natural productions of his
own base conduct. I could see nothing but the figure and the lineaments of him, whose eloquence
had charmed, whose benevolent hand had nourished and maintained me. There are likewise, in
this mysterious state of life, paroxysms and intervals of disordered consciousness, which memory
refuses to acknowledge or record; the epileptic's waking dream is one--an unreal reality. And
similar to this was my impression of the late events. They lacked substantiality. Memory took
no account of them, discarded them, and would connect the present only with the bright experience
she had treasured up, prior to the dark distempered season. I could not hate my benefactor.
I could not efface the image, which months of apparent love had engraven on my heart.

Thrust from Mr Clayton's chapel, and unable to obtain admission elsewhere, I felt how insecure
was my tenure of office. I prepared myself for dismissal, and hoped that, when the hour arrived,
I should submit without repining. In the meanwhile, I was careful in the performance of every
duty, and studious to give no cause, not the remotest, for complaint or dissatisfaction. It
was not long, however, before signs of an altered state of things presented themselves to view.
A straw tells which way the wind blows, and wisps began to fly in all directions. I found at
length that I could do nothing right. To-day I was too indolent; to-morrow, too officious:--now
I was too much of a gentlemen; and now not half gentlemanly enough. The hardest infliction
to bear was the treatment of my new friend and colleague--of him who had given me kind warning
and advice, when mischief was only threatening, but who, on the first appearance of trouble,
took alarm, and deserted my side. The moment that he perceived my inevitable fate, he decided
upon leaving me alone to fight my hard battle. At first he spoke to me with shyness and reserve;
afterwards coolly, and soon, he said nothing at all. Sometimes, perhaps, if we were quite alone,
and there was no chance whatever of discovery, he would venture half a word or so upon the
convenient subject of the weather; but these occasions were very rare. If a superior were present,
hurricanes would not draw a syllable from his careful lips; and, under the eye of the stout
and influential Mr Bombasty, it was well for me if frowns and sneers were the only exhibitions
of rudeness on the part of my worldly and far-seeing friend. Ah, Jacob Whining! With all your
policy and sagacious selfishness, you found it difficult to protract your own official existence
a few months longer. He had hardly congratulated himself upon the dexterity which had kept
him from being involved in my misfortunes, before he fell under the ban of his church, like
me was persecuted, and driven into the world a branded and excommunicated outcast. Mr Whining,
however, who had learnt much in the world, and more in his connexion, was a cleverer and more
fortunate man than this friend and coadjutor. He retired with his experience into Yorkshire,
drew a small brotherhood about him, and in a short time became the revered and beloved founder
of the numerous and far-spread sect of Whiningtonians!

It was just a fortnight after my expulsion from the Church, that matters were brought to a
crisis as far as I was concerned, by the determined tone and conduct of the gentleman at the
head of our society. Mr Bombasty arrived one morning at the office, in a perturbed and anxious
state, and requested my attendance in his private room. I waited upon him. Perspiration hung
about his fleshy face--he wiped it off, and then began:

"Young man," said he, "this won't do at all."

"What, sir?" I asked.

"Come, don't be impudent. You are done for, I can tell you."

"How, sir?" I enquired. "What have I done?"

"Where are the subscriptions that were due last Saturday?"

"Not yet collected, sir."

"What money have you belonging to the society?"

"Not a sixpence, sir."

"Young man," continued the lusty president in a solemn voice, "you are in a woeful state; you
are living in the world without a security."

"What is the matter, sir."

"Matter!" echoed the gentleman.--"Matter with a man that has lost his security! Are you positive
you have got no funds about you? Just look into your pocket, my friend, and make sure."

"I have nothing, sir. Pray, tell me what I have done?"

"Young man, holding the office that I hold, feeling as I feel, and knowing what I know, it
would be perfect madness in me to have any thing to do with a man who has been given over by
his security. Don't you understand me? Isn't that very good English? Mr Clayton will have nothing
more to say to you. The society gives you warning."

"May I not be informed, sir, why I am so summarily dismissed?"

"Why, my good fellow, what is the matter with you? You seem remarkably stupid this morning.
I can't beat about the bush with you. You must go."

"Without having committed a fault?" I added, mournfully.

"Sir," said the distinguished president, looking libraries at me, "when one mortal has become
security for another mortal, and suddenly annuls and stultifies his bond, to say that the other
mortal has committed a fault is just to call brandy--water. Sir," continued Mr Bombasty, adjusting
his India cravat, "that man has perpetrated a crime--a crime primy facey--exy fishio."

I saw that my time was come, and I said nothing.

"If," said Mr Bombasty, "you had lost your intellect, I am a voluntary contributor, and could
have got you chains and a keeper in Bedlam. If you had broken a limb, I am a life-governor,
and it would have been a pleasure to me to send you to the hospital. But you may as well ask
me to put life into a dead man, as to be of service to a creature who has lost his security.
You had better die at once. It would be a happy release. I speak as a friend."

"Thank you, sir," said I.

"I hear complaints against you, but I don't listen to them. Every thing is swallowed up in
one remarkable fact. Your security has let you down. You must go about your business. I speak
as the president of this Christian society, and not, I hope, without the feelings of a man.
The treasurer will pay your salary immediately, and we dispense with your services."

"What am I to do?" I asked, half aloud.

"Just the best you can," answered the gentleman. "The audience is at an end."

Mr Bombasty said no more, but drew from his coat pocket a snuff-box of enormous dimensions.
From it he grasped between his thumb and finger a moderate handful of stable-smelling dust.
His nose and India handkerchief partook of it in equal shares, and then he rang his bell with
presidential dignity, and ordered up his customary lunch of chops and porter. A few hours afterwards
I was again upon the world, ready to begin the fight of life anew, and armed with fifteen guineas
for the coming struggle. Mr Clayton had kept his word with me, and did not desert me until
I was once more fairly on the road to ruin.

One of the first consequences of my unlooked-for meeting with the faithful Thompson, was the
repayment of the five shillings which he had so generously spared me when I was about to leave
him for Birmingham, without as many pence in my scrip. During my absence, however, fortune
had placed my honest friend in a new relation to a sum of this value. Five shillings were not
to him, as before, sixty pence. The proprietor of the house in which he lived, and which he
had found it so difficult to let out to his satisfaction, had died suddenly, and had thought
proper to bequeath to his tenant the bulk of his property, amounting, perhaps, to five thousand
pounds. Thompson, who was an upholsterer by trade, left the workshop in which he was employed
as journeyman immediately, and began to work upon his own account. He was a prosperous and
a thriving man when I rejoined him. His manner was, as the reader has seen, kind and straightforward
as ever, and the only change that his wealth had wrought in him, was that which gold may be
supposed to work a heart alive to its duties, simple and honest in its intentions, and lacking
only the means to make known its strong desire of usefulness. His generosity had kept pace
with his success, his good wishes outstripped both. His home was finer, yet scarcely more sightly
and happier than the one large room, which, with its complement of ten children, sire and dame,
had still a nook for the needy and friendless stranger. The old house had been made over for
a twelvemonth to the various tenants, free of all charge. At the end of that period it was
the intention of Thompson to pull it down, and build a better in its place. A young widow,
with her three orphans, lodged on the attic floor, and the grateful prayers of the four went
far to establish the buoyancy of the landlord's spirit, and to maintain the smile that seldom
departed from his manly cheek. Well might the poor creature, whom I once visited in her happy
lodging, talk of the sin of destroying so comfortable a residence, and feel assured, that "let
them build a palace, they would never equal the present house, or make a sleeping-room where
a body might rest so peacefully and well." Thompson's mode of life had scarcely varied. He
was not idle amongst his men. When labour was suspended, he was with his children; another
had been added to the number, and there were now eleven to relieve him of the superabundant
profits created in the manufactory. Mrs Thompson was still a noble housewife, worthy of her
husband. All was care, cleanliness, and economy at home. Griping stint would never have been
tolerated by the hospitable master, and virtuous plenty only was admitted by the prudent wife.
Had there been a oneness in the religious views of this good couple, Paradise would have been
a word fit to write beneath the board that made known to men John Thompson's occupation; but
this, alas! was wanting to complete a scene that otherwise looked rather like perfection. The
great enemy of man seeks in many ways to defeat the benevolent aims of Providence. Thompson
had remained at home one Sunday afternoon to smoke a friendly pipe with an old acquaintance,
when he should have gone to church. His wife set out alone. Satan took advantage of her husband's
absence, drew her to chapel, and made her--a dissenter. This was Thompson's statement of the
case, and severer punishment, he insisted, had never been inflicted on a man for Sabbath-breaking.

When I was dismissed by Mr Bombasty, it was a natural step to walk towards the abode of the
upholsterer. I knew his hour for supper, and his long hour after that for ale, and pipe, and
recreation. I was not in doubt as to my welcome. Mrs Thompson had given me a general invitation
to supper, "because," she said, "it did Thompson good to chat after a hard day's work;" and
the respected Thompson himself had especially invited me to the long hour afterwards, "because,"
he added, "it did the ale and 'baccy good, who liked it so much better to go out of this here
wicked world in company." About seven o'clock in the evening I found myself under their hospitable
roof, seated in the room devoted to the general purposes of the house. It was large, and comfortably
furnished. The walls were of wainscot, painted white, and were graced with two paintings. One,
a family group, consisting of Thompson, wife, and eight children, most wretchedly executed,
was the production of a slowly rising artist, a former lodger of my friend's, who had contrived
to compound with his easy landlord for two years and three quarters' rent, with this striking
display of his ability. Thompson was prouder of this picture than of the originals themselves,
if that were possible. The design had been his own, and had cost him, as he was ready and even
anxious to acknowledge, more time and trouble than he had ever given before, or meant to give
again, to any luxury in life. The artist, as I was informed, had endeavoured to reduce to form
some fifty different schemes that had arisen in poor Thompson's brain, but had failed in every
one, so difficult he found it to introduce the thousand and one effects that the landlord deemed
essential to the subject. His first idea had been to bring upon the canvass every feature of
his life from boyhood upwards. This being impracticable, he wished to bargain for at least
the workshop and the private residence. The lodgers, he thought, might come into the background
well, and the tools, peeping from a basket in the corner, would look so much like life and
nature. The upshot of his plans was the existing work of art, which Thompson considered matchless,
and pronounced "dirt cheap, if he had even given the fellow a seven years' lease of the entire
premises." The situations were striking certainly. In the centre of the picture were two high
chairs, on which were seated, as grave as judges, the heads of the establishment. They sat
there, drawn to their full height, too dignified to look at one another, and yet displaying
a fond attachment, by a joining of the hands. The youngest child had clambered to the father's
knee, and, with a chisel, was digging at his nose, wonderful to say, without disturbing the
stoic equanimity that had settled on the father's face. This was the favourite son. Another,
with a plane larger than himself, was menacing the mother's knee. The remaining six had each
a tool, and served in various ways to effect most artfully the beloved purpose of the vain
upholsterer's heart--viz. the introduction of the entire workshop. The second painting in the
centre of the opposite wall, represented Mr Clayton. The likeness was a failure, and the colours
were coarse and glaring; but there needed no instruction to know that the carefully framed
production attempted to portray the unenviable man, who, in spite of his immorality and shameless
life, was still revered and idolized by the blind disciples who had taken him for their guide.
This portrait was Mrs Thompson's peculiar property. There were no other articles of virtu in
the spacious apartment; but cleanliness and decorum bestowed upon it a grace, the absence of
which no idle decoration could supply. Early as the hour was, a saucepan was on the fire, whose
bubbling water was busy with the supper that at half-past eight must meet the assault of many
knives and forks. John Thompson and two sons--the eldest--were working in the shop. They had
been there with little intermission since six that morning. The honest man was fond of work;
so was he of his children--yes, dearly fond of them, and they must share with him the evening
meal; and he must have them all about him; and he must help them all, and see them eat, and
look with manly joy and pride upon the noisy youngsters, for whom his lusty arm had earned
the bread that came like manna to him--so wholesome and so sweet! Three girls, humbly but neatly
dressed, the three first steps of this great human ladder, were seated at a table administering
to the necessities of sundry shirts and stockings that had suffered sensibly in their last
week's struggle through the world. They were indeed a picture worth the looking at. You grew
a better man in gazing on their innocence and industry. What a lesson stole from their quiet
and contented looks, their patient perseverance, their sweet unity! How shining smooth the
faces, how healthy, and how round, and how impossible it seemed for wrinkles ever to disturb
the fine and glossy surface! Modesty never should forsake the humble; the bosom of the lowly
born should be her home. Here she had enshrined herself, and given to simplicity all her dignity
and truth. They worked and worked on; who should tell which was the most assiduous--which the
fairest--which the most eager and successful to increase the happiness of all! And turn to
Billy there, that half-tamed urchin! that likeness in little of his sire, rocking not so much
against his will, as against conviction, the last of all the Thompsons--a six months' infant
in the wicker cradle. How, obedient to his mother's wish, like a little man at first, he rocks
with all his might, and then irregularly, and at long intervals--by fits and starts--and ceases
altogether very soon, bobbing his curly head, and falling gently into a deep mesmeric sleep.
The older lads are making wooden boats, and two, still older, stand on either side their mother.
A book is in the hands of each, full of instruction and fine learning. It was the source of
all their knowledge, the cause of all their earliest woes. Good Mrs Thompson had been neglected
as a child, and was enthusiastic in the cause of early education. Sometimes they looked into
the book, but oftener still they cast attentive eyes upon the fire, as if "the book of knowledge
fair" was there displayed, and not a noisy saucepan, almost unable to contain itself for joy
of the cod's head and shoulders, that must be ready by John Thompson's supper time. The whole
family were my friends--with the boys I was on terms of warmest intimacy, and smiles and nods,
and shouts and cheers, welcomed me amongst them.

"Now, close your book, Bob," said the mother, soon after I was seated, "and, Alec, give me
yours. Put your hands down, turn from the fire, and look up at me, dears. What is the capital
of Russia?"

"The Birman empire," said Alec, with unhesitating confidence.

"The Baltic sea," cried Bob, emulous and ardent.

"Wait--not so fast; let me see, my dears, which of you is right."

Mrs Thompson appealed immediately to her book, after a long and private communication with
which, she emphatically pronounced both wrong.

"Give us a chance, mother," said Bob in a wheedling tone, (Bob knew his mother's weaknesses.)
"Them's such hard words. I don't know how it is, but I never can remember 'em. Just tell us
the first syllable--oh, do now--please."

"Oh, I know now!" cried Alec. "It's something with a G in it."

"Think of the apostles, dears. What are the names of the apostles?"

"Why, there's Moses," began Bob, counting on his fingers, "and there's Sammywell, and there's
Aaron, and Noah's ark"----

"Stop, my dear," said Mrs Thompson, who was very busy with her manual, and contriving a method
of rendering a solution of her question easy. "Just begin again. I said--who was Peter--no,
not that--who was an apostle?"

"Oh, I know now!" cried Alec again, (Alec was the sharp boy of the family.) "It's Peter. Peter's
the capital of Russia."

"No, not quite my dear. You are very warm--very warm indeed, but not quite hot. Try again."

"Paul," half murmured Robert, with a reckless hope of proving right.

"No, Peter's right; but there's something else. What has your father been taking down the beds
for?"

There was a solemn silence, and the three industrious sisters blushed the faintest blush that
could be raised upon a maiden's cheek.

"To rub that stuff upon the walls," said the ready Alec.

"Yes, but what was it to kill?" continued the instructress.

"The fleas," said Bob.

"Worse than that, my dear."

"Oh, I know now," shrieked Alec, for the third time. "Petersbug's the capital of Russia."

Mrs Thompson looked at me with pardonable vanity and triumph, and I bestowed upon the successful
students a few comfits which I had purchased on my road for my numerous and comfit-loving friends.
The mere sight of this sweet "reward of merit" immediately inspired the two boys at work upon
the boats with a desire for knowledge, and especially for learning the capitals of countries,
that was most agreeable to contemplate. The lesson was continued, more to my amusement, I fear,
than the edification of the pupils. The boys were unable to answer a single question until
they had had so many chances, and had become so very hot, that not to have answered at length
would have bordered on the miraculous. The persevering governess was not displeased at this,
for she would not have lost the opportunity of displaying her own skill in metaphorical illustration,
for a great deal, I am very sure. The clock struck eight; there was a general movement. The
three sisters folded their work, and lodged it carefully in separate drawers. The eldest then
produced the table-cloth, knives, forks, and spoons. The second exhibited bibs and pinafores;
and the third brought from their hiding-places a dozen modest chairs, and placed them round
the table. Bob assured the company "he was so hungry;" Alec said, "so was he;" and the boatmen,
in an under tone, settled what should be done with the great cod's eyes, which, they contended,
were the best parts of the fish, and "shouldn't they be glad if father would give 'em one a-piece."
The good woman must enquire, of course, how nearly the much-relished dainty had reached the
critical and interesting state when it became most palatable to John Thompson; for John Thompson
was an epicure, "and must have his little bits of things done to a charm, or not at all." Half-past
eight had struck. The family were bibbed and pinafored; the easy coat and slippers were at
the fire, and warmed through and through--it was a season of intenseness. "Here's father!"
shouted Alec, and all the bibs and pinafores rushed like a torrent to the door. Which shall
the father catch into his ready arms, which kiss, which hug, which answer?--all are upon him;
they know their playmate, their companion, and best friend; they have hoarded up, since the
preceding night, a hundred things to say, and now they have got their loving and attentive
listener. "Look what I have done, father," says the chief boatman, "Tom and I together." "Well
done, boys!" says the father--and Tom and he are kissed. "I have been locking baby," lisps
little Billy, who, in return, gets rocked himself. "Father, what's the capital of Russia?"
shrieks Alec, tugging at his coat. "What do you mean, you dog?" is the reply, accompanied by
a hearty shake of his long flaxen hair. "Petersburg," cry Tom and Alec both, following him
to the hearth, each one endeavouring to relieve him of his boots as soon as he is seated there.
The family circle is completed. The flaky fish is ready, and presented for inspection. The
father has served them all, even to little Billy--their plates are full and smoking. "Mother"
is called upon to ask a blessing. She rises, and assumes the looks of Jabez Buster--twenty
blessings might be asked and granted in half the time she takes--so think and look Bob, Alec,
and the boatmen; but at length she pauses--the word is given, and further ceremony is dispensed
with. In childhood, supper is a thing to look forward to, and to last when it arrives; but
not in childhood, any more than in old age, can sublunary joys endure for ever. The meal is
finished. A short half-hour flies, like lightning, by. The children gather round their father;
and in the name of all, upon his knees, he thanks his God for all the mercies of the day. Thompson
is no orator. His heart is warm; his words are few and simple. The three attendant graces take
charge of their brethren, detach them from their father's side, and conduct them to their beds.
Happy father! happy children! May Providence be merciful, and keep the grim enemy away from
your fireside! Let him not come now in the blooming beauty and the freshness of your loves!
Let him not darken and embitter for ever the life that is still bright, beautiful, and glorious
in the power of elevating and sustaining thought that leads beyond it. Let him wait the matured
and not unexpected hour, when the shock comes, not to crush, to overwhelm, and to annihilate,
but to warn, to teach, and to encourage; not to alarm and stagger the untaught spirit, but
to bring to the subdued and long-tried soul its last lesson on the vanity and evanescence of
its early dreams!

It is half-past nine o'clock. Thompson, his wife, and two eldest boys are present, and, for
the first time, I have an opportunity to make known the object of my visit.

"And so they have turned you off," said Thompson, when I had finished. "And who's surprised
at that? Not I, for one. Missus," continued he, turning to his wife, "why haven't you got a
curtain yet for that ere pictur? I can't abear the sight of it."

Mrs Thompson looked plaintively towards the painting, and heaved a sigh.

"Ah, dear good man! He has got his enemies," said she.

"Mrs Thompson!" exclaimed her husband, "I have done with that good man from this day for'ards;
and I do hope, old 'ooman, that you'll go next Sunday to church with me, as we used to do afore
you got that pictur painted."

"It's no good talking, Thompson," answered the lady, positively and firmly. "I can't sit under
a cold man, and there's an end of it."

"There, that's the way you talk, missus."

"Why, you know, Thompson, every thing in the church is cold."

"No, not now, my dear--they've put up a large stove. You'll recollect you haven't been lately."

"Besides, do you think I can sit in a place of worship, and hear a man say, 'Let us pray,'
in the middle of the service, making a fool of one, as if we hadn't been praying all the time?
As that dear and persecuted saint says, (turning to the picture,) it's a common assault to
our understandings."

"Now, Polly, that's just always how you go off. If you'd only listen to reason, that could
all be made out right in no time. The clergyman doesn't mean to say, let us pray, because he
hasn't been praying afore;--what he means is--we have been praying all this time, and so we'll
go on praying again--no, not again exactly--but don't leave off. That isn't what I mean either.
Let me see, let us pray. Oh, yes! Why--stay. Where is it he does say, let us pray? There, I
say, Stukely, you know it all much better than I do. Just make it right to the missus."

"It is not difficult," said I.

"Oh no, Mr Stukely, I daresay not!" added Mrs Thompson, interrupting me. "Mr Clayton says,
Satan has got his janysarries abroad, and has a reason for every thing. It is very proper to
say, too, I suppose, that it is an imposition when the bishops ordain the ministers? What a
word to make use of. It's truly frightful!"

"Well, I'm blessed," exclaimed Thompson, "if I don't think you had better hold your tongue,
old girl, about impositions; for sich oudacious robbers as your precious brothers is, I never
come across, since I was stopped that ere night, as we were courting, on Shooter's Hill. It's
a system of imposition from beginning to end."

"Look to your Bible, Thompson; what does that say? Does that tell ministers to read their sermons?
There can't be no truth and right feeling when a man puts down what he's going to say; the
vital warmth is wanting, I'm sure. And then to read the same prayers Sunday after Sunday, till
a body gets quite tired at hearing them over and over again, and finding nothing new! How can
you improve an occasion if you are tied down in this sort of way."

"Did you ever see one of the brothers eat, Stukely?" asked Thompson, avoiding the main subject.
"Don't you ask one of them to dinner--that's all. That nice boy Buster ought to eat for a wager.
I had the pleasure of his company to dinner one fine afternoon. I don't mean to send him another
invitation just yet, at all events."

"Yes," proceeded the fair, but stanch nonconformist; "what does the Bible say, indeed! 'Take
no thought of what you should say.' Why, in the church, I am told they are doing nothing else
from Monday morning to Saturday night but writing the sermon they are going to read on the
Sabbath. To read a sermon! What would the apostles say to that?"

"Why, didn't you tell me, my dear, that the gentleman as set for that pictur got all his sermons
by heart before he preached 'em?"

"Of course I did--but that's a very different thing. Doesn't it all pour from him as natural
as if it had come to him that minute? He doesn't fumble over a book like a schoolboy. His beautiful
eyes, I warrant you, ain't looking down all the time, as if he was ashamed to hold 'em up.
Isn't it a privilege to see his blessed eyes rolling all sorts of ways; and don't they speak
wolumes to the poor benighted sinner? Besides, don't tell me, Thompson; we had better turn
Catholics at once, if we are to have the minister dressing up like the Pope of Rome, and all
the rest of it."

"You are the gal of my heart," exclaimed the uxorious Thompson; "but I must say you have got
some of the disgracefulest notions out of that ere chapel as ever I heard on. Why, it's only
common decency to wear a dress in the pulpit; and I believe in my mind, that that's come down
to us from time immemorable, like every thing else in human natur. What's your opinion, Stukely?"

"Yes; and what's your opinion, Mr Stukely," added the lady immediately, "about calling a minister
of the gospel--a priest? Is that Paperistical or not?"

"That isn't the pint, Polly," proceeded John. "We are talking about the silk dress now. Let's
have that out first."

"And then the absolution"----

"No, Poll. Stick to the silk dress."

"Ah, Thompson, it's always the way!" continued the mistress of the house, growing red and wroth,
and heedless of the presence of the eager-listening children; "it's always the way. Satan is
ruining of you. You'll laugh at the elect, and you'll not find your mistake out till it's too
late to alter. Mr Clayton says, that the Establishment is the hothouse of devils; and the more
I see of its ways, the more I feel he is right. Thompson, you are in the sink of iniquity."

"Come, I can't stand no more of this!" exclaimed Thompson, growing uneasy in his chair, but
without a spark of ill-humour. "Let's change the topic, old 'ooman; I'm sure it can't do the
young un's any good to hear this idle talk. Let's teach 'em nothing at all, if we can't larn
'em something better than wrangling about religion. Now, Jack," he continued, turning to his
eldest boy, "what is the matter with you? What are you sitting there for with your mouth wide
open?"

"What's the meaning of Paperist, father?" asked the boy, who had been long waiting to propose
the question.

"What's that to you, you rascal?" was the reply; "mind your own business, my good fellow, and
leave the Paperist to mind his'n; that's your father's maxim, who got it from his father before
him. You'll learn to find fault with other people fast enough without my teaching you. I tell
you what, Jack, if you look well after yourself, you'll find little time left to bother about
others. If your hands are ever idle--recollect you have ten brothers and sisters about you.
Look about you--you are the oldest boy--and see what you can do for them. Do you mind that?"

"Yes, father."

"Very well, old chap. Then just get out the bottle, and give your father something to coax
the cod down. Poll, that fish won't settle."

The long hour was beginning. That bottle was the signal. A gin and water nightcap, on this
occasion, officiated for the ale. Jack and his brother received a special invitation to a sip
or two, which they at once unhesitatingly accepted. The sturdy fellows shook their father and
fellow-labourer's hand, and were not loth to go to rest. Their mother was their attendant.
The ruffle had departed from her face. It was as pleasant as before. She was but half a dissenter.
So Thompson thought when he called her back again, and bade his "old 'ooman give her hobby
one of her good old-fashioned busses, and think no more about it."

Thompson and I were left together.

"And what do you mean to do, sir, now?" was his first question.

"I hardly know." I answered.

"Of course, you'll cut the gang entirely--that's a nat'ral consequence."

"No, Thompson, not at present. I must not seem so fickle and inconstant. I must not seem so
to myself. I joined this sect not altogether without deliberation. I must have further proof
of the unsoundness of its principles. A few of its professors have been faithless even to their
own position. Of what religious profession may not the same be said? I will be patient, and
examine further."

"I was a-thinking," said Thompson, musingly, "I was a-thinking, 'till you've got something
else to do----but no, never mind, you won't like that."

"What is it?"

"Why, I was thinking about the young un's. They're shocking back'ard in their eddication, and,
between you and me, the missus makes them back'arder. I don't understand the way she has got
of larning 'em at all. I don't want to make scholards of 'em. Nobody would but a fool. Bless
'em, they'll have enough to do to get their bread with sweating and toiling, without addling
their brains about things they can't understand. But it is a cruelty, mind you, for a parent
to hinder his child from reading his Bible on a Sunday afternoon, and to make him stand ashamed
of himself before his fellow workman when he grows up, and finds that he can't put paid to
a bill on a Saturday night. The boys should all know how to read and write, and keep accounts,
and a little summut of human nature. This is what I wants to give 'em, and nobody should I
like better to put it into 'em than you, my old friend, if you'd just take the trouble 'till
you've got something better to do."

"Thompson," I answered instantly, "I will do it with pleasure. I ought to have made the offer.
It did not occur to me. I shall rejoice to repay you, in this trifling way, for all your good
feeling and kindness."

"Oh no!" answered my friend, "none of that. We must have an understanding. Don't you think
I should have asked the question, if I meant to sneak out in that dirty sort of way. No, that
won't do. It's very kind of you, but we must make all that right. We sha'n't quarrel, I dare
say. If you mean you'll do it, I have only just a word or two to say before you begin."

"I shall be proud to serve you, Thompson, and on any terms you please."

"Well, it is a serving me--I don't deny it--but, mind you, only till you have dropped into
something worth your while. What I wish to say is as this: As soon as ever my missus hears
of what you are going to do, I know as well what she'll be at as I know what I am talking of
now. She'll just be breaking my heart to have the boys larned French. Now, I'd just as soon
bind 'em apprentice to that ere Clayton. I've seen too much of that ere sort of thing in my
time. I'm as positive as I sit here, that when a chap begins to talk French he loses all his
English spirit, and feels all over him as like a mounseer as possible. I'm sure he does. I've
seen it a hundred times, and that I couldn't a-bear. Besides, I've been told that French is
the language the thieves talk, and I solemnly believe it. That's one thing. Now, here's another.
You'll excuse me, my dear fellow. In course you know more than I do, but I must say that you
have got sometimes a very roundabout way of coming to the pint. I mean no offence, and I don't
blame you. It's all along of the company you have kept. You are--it's the only fault you have
got--you are oudaciously fond of hard words. Don't let the young uns larn 'em. That's all I
have to say, and we'll talk of the pay some other time."

At this turn of the conversation, Thompson insisted upon my lighting a pipe and joining him
in the gin and water. We smoked for many minutes in silence. My friend had unbuttoned his waistcoat,
and had drawn the table nearer to his warm and hospitable fire. A log of wood was burning slowly
and steadily away, and a small, bright--very bright--copper kettle overlooked it from the hob.
My host had fixed his feet upon the fender--the unemployed hand was in his corduroys. His eyes
were three parts closed, enjoying what from its origin may be called--a pure tobacco-born soliloquy.
The smoke arose in thin white curls from the clay cup, and at regular periods stole blandly
from the corner of his lips. The silent man was blessed. He had been happy at his work; he
had grown happier as the sun went down; his happiness was ripening at the supper table; now,
half-asleep and half-awake--half conscious and half dreaming--wholly free from care, and yet
not free from pregnant thought--the labourer had reached the summit of felicity, and was at
peace--intensely.

A few evenings only had elapsed after this interesting meeting, before I was again spending
a delicious hour or two with the simple-hearted and generous upholsterer. There was something
very winning in these moments snatched and secured from the hurricane of life, and passed in
thorough and undisturbed enjoyment. My friend, notwithstanding that he had engaged my services,
and was pleased to express his satisfaction at the mode in which I rendered them, was yet alive
to my interests, and too apprehensive of injuring them by keeping me away from loftier employment.
He did not like my being thrown out of the chapel, especially after he had heard my determination
not to forsake immediately the sect to which I had attached myself. He was indifferent to his
own fate. His worldly prospects could not be injured by his expulsion; on the contrary, he
slyly assured me that "his neighbours would begin to think better of him, and give him credit
for having become an honester and more trustworthy man." But with regard to myself it was a
different thing. I should require "a character" at some time or another, and there was a body
of men primed and ready to vilify and crush me. He advised me, whilst he acknowledged it was
a hard thing to say, and "it went agin him to do it," to apply once more respectfully for my
dismission. "It won't do," he pertinently said, "to bite your nose off to be revenged on your
tongue." I was certainly in a mess, and must get out of it in the best way that I could. Buster
and Tomkins had great power in the Church, and if I represented my case to either or both of
them, he did hope they might be brought to consent not to injure me, or stand in the way of
my getting bread. "In a quarrel," he said, in conclusion, "some one must give in. I was a young
man, and had my way to make, and though he should despise his-self if he recommended me to
do any thing mean and dirty in the business, yet, he thought, as the father of a numerous family,
he ought to advise me to be civil, and to do the best for myself in this unfortunate dilemmy."

I accepted his advice, and determined to wait upon the dapper deacon. I was physically afraid
to encounter Buster, not so much on account of what I had seen of his spiritual pretension,
as of what I had heard of his domestic behaviour. It was not a very difficult task to obtain
from Mrs Thompson the secret history of many of her highly privileged acquaintances and brethren.
She enjoyed, in a powerful degree, the peculiar virtue of her amiable sex, and to communicate
secrets, delivered to her in strictest confidence, and imparted by her again with equal caution
and provisory care, was the choicest recreation of her well employed and useful life. It was
through this lady that I was favoured with a glance into the natural heart of Mr Buster; or
into what he would himself have called, with a most unfilial disgust, "HIS OLD MAN." It appeared
that, like most great actors, he was a very different personage before and behind the curtain.
Kings, who are miserable and gloomy through the five acts of a dismal tragedy, and who must
needs die at the end of it, are your merriest knaves over a tankard at the Shakspeare's Head.
Your stage fool shall be the dullest dog that ever spoiled mirth with sour and discontented
looks. Jabez Buster, his employment being over at Mr Clayton's theatre, his dress thrown aside,
his mask put by, was not to be recognised by his nearest friend. This is the perfection of
art. A greater tyrant on a small scale, with limited means, never existed than the saintly
Buster when his character was done, and he found himself again in the bosom of his family.
Unhappy bosom was it, and a sad flustration did his presence, nine times out of ten, produce
there. He had four sons, and a delicate creature for a wife, born to be crushed. The sons were
remarkable chiefly for their hypocrisy, which promised, in the fulness of time, to throw their
highly-gifted parent's far into the shade; and, secondarily, for their persecution of their
helpless and indulgent mother. They witnessed and approved so much the success of Jabez in
this particular, that during his absence they cultivated the affectionate habit until it became
a kind of second nature, infinitely more racy and agreeable than the primary. In proportion
to their deliberate oppression of their mother was their natural dread and terror of their
father. Mrs Thompson pronounced it "the shockingest thing in this world to be present when
the young blue-beards were worryting their mother's soul out with saying, 'I sha'n't' and 'I
won't' to every thing, and swearing 'they'd tell their father this,' 'and put him up to that,
and then wouldn't he make a jolly row about it,' with hollering out for nothing at all, only
to frighten the poor timid cretur, and then making a holabaloo with the chairs, or perhaps
falling down, roaring and kicking, just to drive the poor thing clean out of her wits, on purpose
to laugh at her for being so taken in. Well, but it was a great treat, too," she added, "to
hear, in the midst of all this, Buster's heavy foot in the passage, and to see what a scrimmage
there was at once amongst all the young hypocrites. How they all run in different directions--one
to the fire--one to the table--one out at the back-door--one any where he could--all of 'em
as silent as mice, and afeard of the very eye of the blacksmith, who knew, good man, how to
keep every man Jack of 'em in order, and, if a word didn't do, wasn't by no means behind hand
with blows. Buster," she continued, "had his faults like other men, but he was a saint if ever
there was one. To be sure he did like to have his own way at home, and wasn't it natural? And
if he was rather overbearing and cruel to his wife, wasn't that, she should like to know, Satan
warring with the new man, and sometimes getting the better of it? And if he was, as Thompson
had hinted, rayther partial to the creature, and liked good living, what was this to the purpose?
it was an infirmity that might happen to the best Christian living. Nobody could say that he
wasn't a renewed man, and a chosen vessel, and faithful to his call. A man isn't a backslider
because he's carnally weak, and a man isn't a saint because he's moral and well-behaved. 'Good
works,' Mr Clayton said, 'was filthy rags,' and so they were. To be sure, between themselves,
there were one or two things said about Buster that she couldn't approve of. For instance,
she had been told--but this was quite in confidence, and really must not go further--that he
was--that--that, in fact, he was overtaken now and then with liquor, and then the house could
hardly hold him, he got so furious, and, they did say, used such horrid language. But, after
all, what was this? If a man's elected, he is not so much the worse. Besides, if one listened
to people, one might never leave off. She had actually heard, she wouldn't say from whom, that
Buster very often kept out late at night--sometimes didn't come home at all, and sometimes
did at two o'clock in the morning, very hungry and ill-tempered, and then forced his poor wife
out of bed, and made the delicate and shivering creature light a fire, cook beefsteaks, go
into the yard for beer, and wait upon him till he had even eat every morsel up. She for one
would never believe all this, though Mrs Buster herself had told her every word with tears
in her eyes, and in the greatest confidence; so she trusted I wouldn't repeat it, as it wouldn't
look well in her to be found out telling other people's secrets." Singular, perhaps, to say,
the tale did not go further. I kept the lady's secret, and at the same time declined to approach
Mr Jabez Buster in the character of a suppliant. If his advocate and panegyrist had nothing
more to say for him, it could not be uncharitable to conclude that the pretended saint was
as bold a sinner as ever paid infamous courtship to religion, and as such was studiously to
be avoided. I turned my attention from him to Tomkins. There was no grossness about him, no
brutality, no abominable vice. In the hour of my defeat and desertion, he had extended to me
his sympathy, and, more in sorrow than in anger, I am convinced he voted for my expulsion from
the church when he found that his vote, and twenty added to it, would not have been sufficient
to protect me. He could not act in opposition to the wishes of his friend and patron, Mr Clayton,
but very glad would he have been, as every word and look assured me, to meet the wishes of
us both, had that been practicable. If the great desire of Jehu Tomkins' heart could have been
gratified, he never would have been at enmity with a single soul on earth. He was a soft, good-natured,
easy man; most desirous to be let alone, and not uneasily envious or distressed to see his
neighbours jogging on, so long as he could do his own good stroke of business, and keep a little
way before them. Jehu was a Liberal too--in politics and in religion--in every thing, in fact,
but the one small article of money, and here, I must confess, the good dissenter dissented
little from the best of us. He was a stanch Conservative in matters connected with the till.
For his private life it was exemplary--at least it looked so to the world, and the world is
satisfied with what it sees. Jehu was attentive to his business--yes, very--and a business
life is not monotonous and dull, if it be relieved, as it was in this case, by dexterous arts,
that give an interest and flavour to the commonest pursuits. Sometimes a customer would die--a
natural state of things, but a great event for Jehu. First, he would "improve the occasion"
to the surviving relatives--condole and pray with them. Afterwards he would improve it to himself,
in his own little room, at night, when all the children were asleep, and no one was awake but
Mrs Tomkins and himself. Then he would get down his ledger, and turn to the deceased's account--

    "----How long it is thou see'st,
    And he would gaze 'till it became much longer;"

"For who could tell whether six shirts or twelve were bought in July last, and what could be
the harm of making those eight handkerchiefs a dozen? He was a strange old gentleman; lived
by himself--and the books might be referred to, and speak boldly for themselves." Yes, cunning
Jehu, so they might, with those interpolations and erasures that would confound and overcome
a lawyer. When customers did not die, it was pastime to be dallying with the living. In adding
up a bill with haste, how many times will four and four make nine? They generally did with
Jehu. The best are liable to errors. It cost a smirk or smile; Jehu had hundreds at command,
and the accident was amended. How easy is it sometimes to give no bill at all! How very easy
to apply, a few months afterwards, for second payment; how much more easy still to pocket it
without a word; or, if discovered and convicted, to apologize without a blush for the mistake!
No, Jehu Tomkins, let me do you justice--this is not so easy--it requires all your zeal and
holy intrepidity to reach this pitch of human frailty and corruption. With regard to the domestic
position of my interesting friend, it is painful to add, that the less that is said about it
the better. In vain was his name in full, painted in large yellow letters, over the shop front.
In vain was Bot. of Jehu Tomkins engraven on satin paper, with flourishes innumerable beneath
the royal arms; he was no more the master of his house than was the small boy of the establishment,
who did the dirty work of the place for nothing a-week and the broken victuals. If Jehu was
deacon abroad, he was taught to acknowledge an archdeacon at home--one to whom he was indebted
for his success in life, and for reminding him of that agreeable fact about four times during
every day of his existence. I was aware of this delicate circumstance when I ventured to the
linen-draper's shop on my almost hopeless mission; but, although I had never spoken to Mrs
Tomkins, I had often seen her in the chapel, and I relied much on the feeling and natural tenderness
of the female heart. The respectable shop of Mr Tomkins was in Fleet Street. The establishment
consisted of Mrs Tomkins, première; Jehu, under-secretary; and four sickly-looking young ladies
behind the counter. It is to be said, to the honour of Mrs Tomkins, that she admitted no young
woman into her service whose character was not decided, and whose views were not very clear.
Accordingly, the four young ladies were members of the chapel. It is pleasing to reflect, that,
in this well-ordered house of business, the ladies took their turns to attend the weekly prayer
meetings of the church. Would that I might add, that they were not severally met on these occasions
by their young men at the corner of Chancery Lane, and invariably escorted by them some two
or three miles in a totally opposite direction. Had Mrs Tomkins been born a man, it is difficult
to decide what situation she would have adorned the most. She would have made a good man of
business--an acute lawyer--a fine casuist--a great divine. Her attainments were immense; her
self-confidence unbounded. She was a woman of middle height, and masculine bearing. She was
not prepossessing, notwithstanding her white teeth and large mouth, and the intolerable grin
that a customer to the amount of a halfpenny and upwards could bring upon her face under any
circumstances, and at any hour of the day. Her complexion might have been good originally.
Red blotches scattered over her cheek had destroyed its beauty. She wore a modest and becoming
cap, and a gold eyeglass round her neck. She was devoted to money-making--heart and soul devoted
to it during business hours. What time she was not in the shop, she passed amongst dissenting
ministers, spiritual brethren, and deluded sinners. It remains to state the fact, that, whilst
a customer never approached the lady without being repelled by the offensive smirk that she
assumed, no dependent ever ventured near her without the fear of the scowl that sat naturally
(and fearfully, when she pleased) upon her dark and inauspicious brow. What wonder that little
Jehu was crushed into nothingness, behind his own counter, under the eye of his own wife!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WORLD OF LONDON. SECOND SERIES.

PART II.

In our last, we had occasion to speak sharply of that class of our aristocratic youth known
by the name of fast fellows, and it may be thought that we characterized their foibles rather
pointedly, and tinctured our animadversions with somewhat of undue asperity. This charge, however,
can be made with no ground of reason or justice: the fact is, we only lashed the follies for
which that class of men are pre-eminent, but left their vices in the shade, in the hope that
the raw we have already established, will shame the fast fellows into a sense of the proprieties
of conduct due to themselves and their station.

The misfortune is, that these fast fellows forget, in the pursuit of their favourite follies,
that the mischief to society begins only with themselves: that man is naturally a servile,
imitative animal; and that he follows in the track of a great name, as vulgar muttons run at
the heels of a belwether. The poison of fashionable folly runs comparatively innocuous while
it circulates in fashionable veins; but when vulgar fellows are innoculated with the virus,
it becomes a plague, a moral small-pox, distorting, disfiguring the man's mind, pockpitting
his small modicum of brains, and blinding his mind's eye to the supreme contempt his awkward
vagaries inspire.

The fast fellows rejoice exceedingly in the spread of their servile imitation of fashionable
folly, this gentlemanly profligacy at second-hand; and perhaps this is the worst trait in their
character, for it is at once malicious and unwise: malicious, because the contemplation of
humanity, degraded by bad example in high station, should rather be a source of secret shame
than of devilish gratification: unwise, because their example is a discredit to their order,
and a danger. To posses birth, fashion, station, wealth, power, is title enough to envy, and
handle sufficient for scandal. How much stronger becomes that title--how much longer that handle--when
men, enjoying this pre-eminence, enjoy it, not using, but abusing their good fortune!

We should not have troubled our heads with the fast fellows at all, if it were not absolutely
essential to the full consideration of our subject, widely to sever the prominent classes of
fashionable life, and to have no excuse for continuing in future to confound them. We have
now done with the fast fellows, and shall like them the more the less we hear of them.

CONCERNING SLOW FELLOWS.

The SLOW SCHOOL of fashionable or aristocratic life, comprises those who think that, in the
nineteenth century, other means must be taken to preserve their order in its high and responsible
position than those which, in dark ages, conferred honour upon the tallest or the bravest.
They think, and think wisely, that the only method of keeping above the masses, in this active-minded
age, is by soaring higher and further into the boundless realms of intellect; or at the least
forgetting, in a fair neck-and-neck race with men of meaner birth, their purer blood, and urging
the generous contest for fame, regardless of the allurements of pleasure, or the superior advantages
of fortune. In truth, we might ask, what would become of our aristocratic classes ere long,
if they came, as a body, to be identified with their gambling lords, their black-leg baronets,
their insolvent honourables, and the seedy set of Chevaliers Diddlerowski and Counts Scaramouchi,
who caper on the platform outside for their living? The populace would pelt these harlequin
horse-jockeys of fashionable life off their stage, if there was nothing better to be seen inside;
but it fortunately happens that there is better.

We can boast among our nobles and aristocratic families, a few men of original, commanding,
and powerful intellect; many respectable in most departments of intellectual rivalry; many
more laborious, hard-working men; and about the same proportion of dull, stupid, fat-headed,
crabbed, conceited, ignorant, insolent men, that you may find among the same given number of
those commonly called the educated classes. We refer you to the aristocracies of other countries,
and we think we may safely say, that we have more men of that class, in this country, who devote
themselves to the high duties of their station, regardless of its pleasures, than in any other:
men who recognize practically the responsibility of their rank, and do not shirk from them;
men who think they have something to do, and something to repay, for the accidents of birth
and fortune--who, in the senate, in the field, or in the less prominent, but not less noble,
career of private life, act, as they feel, with the poet:

    "At heros, et decus, et quæ non fecimus ipsi,
    Vix ea nostra voco."

It has been admirably remarked, by some one whose name we forget, that the grand advantage
of high birth is, placing a man as far forward at twenty-five as another man is at fifty. We
might, as a corollary to this undeniable proposition, add, that birth not only places, but
keeps a man in that advance of his fellows, which in the sum of life makes such vast ultimate
difference in the prominence of their position.

This advantage enjoyed by the aristocracy of birth, of early enrolling themselves among the
aristocracy of power, has, like every thing in the natural and moral world, its compensating
disadvantage: they lose in one way what they gain in another; and although many of them become
eminent in public life, few, very few, comparatively with the numbers who enter the arena,
become great. They are respected, heard, and admired, by virtue of a class-prepossession in
their favour; yet, after all, they must select from the ranks of the aristocracy of talent
their firmest and best supporters, to whom they may delegate the heavy responsibilities of
business, and lift from their own shoulders the burden of responsible power.

One striking example of the force of birth, station, and association in public life, never
fails to occur to us, as an extraordinary example of the magnifying power of these extrinsic
qualities, in giving to the aristocracy of birth a consideration, which, though often well
bestowed, is yet oftener bestowed without any desert whatever; and that title to admiration
and respect, which has died with ancestry, patriotism, and suffering in the cause of freedom,
is transferred from the illustrious dead to the undistinguished living.

Without giving a catalogue raisonné of the slow fellows, (we use the term not disrespectfully,
but only in contradistinction to the others,) we may observe that, besides the public service
in which the great names are sufficiently known, you have poets, essayists, dramatists, astronomers,
geologists, travellers, novelists, and, what is better than all, philanthropists. In compliment
to human nature, we take the liberty merely to mention the names of Lord Dudley Stuart and
Lord Ashley. The works of the slow fellows, especially their poetry, indicate in a greater
or less degree the social position of the authors; seldom or never deficient in good taste,
and not without feeling, they lack power and daring. The smooth style has their preference,
and their verses smack of the school of Lord Fanny; indeed, we know not that, in poetry or
prose, we can point out one of our slow fellows of the present day rising above judicious mediocrity.
It is a curious fact, that the most daring and original of our noble authors have, in their
day, been fast fellows; it is only necessary to name Rochester, Buckingham, and Byron.

Among the slow fellows, are multitudes of pretenders to intellect in a small way. These patronize
a drawing-master, not to learn to draw, but to learn to talk of drawing; they also study the
Penny Magazine and other profound works, to the same purpose; they patronize the London University,
and the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, as far as lending their names; for,
being mostly of the class of fashionable screws, they take care never to subscribe to any thing.
They have a refined taste in shawls, and are consequently in the confidence of dressy old women,
who hold them up as examples of every thing that is good. They take chocolate of a morning,
and tea in the evening; drink sherry with a biscuit, and wonder how people can eat those hot
lunches. They take constitutional walks and Cockle's pills; and, by virtue of meeting them
at the Royal Society, are always consulting medical men, but take care never to offer them
a guinea. They talk of music, of which they know something--of books, of which they know little--and
of pictures, of which they know less; they have always read "the last novel," which is as much
as they can well carry; they know literary, professional, and scientific men at Somerset House,
but, if they meet them in Park Lane, look as if they never saw them before; they are very peevish,
have something to say against every man, and always say the worst first; they are very quiet
in their manner, almost sly, and never use any of the colloquialisms of the fast fellows; they
treat their inferiors with great consideration, addressing them, "honest friend," "my good
man," and so on, but have very little heart, and less spirit.

They equally abhor the fast fellows and the pretenders to fashion. They are afraid of the former,
who are always ridiculing them and their pursuits, by jokes theoretical and practical. If the
fast fellows ascertain that a slow fellow affects sketching, they club together to annoy him,
talking of the "autumnal tints," and "the gilding of the western hemisphere;" if a botanist,
they send him a cow-cabbage, or a root of mangel-wurzel, with a serious note, stating, that
they hear it is a great curiosity in his line; if an entomologist, they are sure to send him
away "with a flea in his ear." If he affects poetry, the fast fellows make one of their servants
transcribe, from Bell's Life, Scroggins's poetical version of the fight between Bendigo and
Bungaree, or some such stuff; and, having got the slow fellow in a corner, insist upon having
his opinion, and drive him nearly mad. All these, and a thousand other pranks, the fast fellows
play upon their slow brethren, not in the hackneyed fashion which low people call "gagging,"
and genteel people "quizzing," but with a seriousness and gravity that heightens all the joke,
and makes the slow fellow inexpressibly ridiculous.

It is astonishing, considering the opportunities of the slow fellows, that they do not make
a better figure; it seems wonderful, that they who glide swiftly down the current of fortune
with wind and tide, should be distanced by those who, close-hauled upon a wind, are beating
up against it all their lives; but so it is;--the compensating power that rules material nature,
governs the operations of the mind. To whom much is given of opportunity, little is bestowed
of the exertion to improve it. Those who rely more or less on claims extrinsic, are sure to
be surpassed by those whose power is from within. After all, the great names of our nation
(with here and there an exception to prove the rule) are plebeian.

OF THE ARISTOCRACY OF POWER.

In their political capacity, people of fashion, among whom, for the present purpose, we include
the whole of the aristocracy, are the common butt of envy, hatred, malice, and all uncharitableness.

They are accused of standing between the mass of the people and their inalienable rights; of
opposing, with obstinate resistance, the progress of rational liberty, and of----but, in short,
you have only to glance over the pages of any democratic newspaper, to be made aware of the
horrible political iniquity of the aristocracy of England.

The aristocracy in England, considered politically, is a subject too broad, too wide, and too
deep for us, we most readily confess; nor is it exactly proper for a work of a sketchy nature,
in which we only skim lightly along the surface of society, picking up any little curiosity
as we go along, but without dipping deep into motives or habits of thought or action, especially
in state affairs.

Since our late lamented friends, the Whigs, have gone to enjoy a virtuous retirement and dignified
ease, we have taken no delight in politics. There is no fun going on now-a-days--no quackery,
no mountebankery, no asses, colonial or otherwise. The dull jog-trot fellows who have got into
Downing Street have made politics no joke; and now that silence, as of the tomb, reigns amongst
quondam leaders of the Treasury Benech--now that the camp-followers have followed the leader,
and the auxiliaries are dispersed, we really have nobody to laugh at; and, like our departed
friends, have too little of the statesman to be serious about serious matters.

With regard to the aristocracy in their public capacity, this is the way we always look at them.

In the first place, they govern us through the tolerance of public opinion, as men having station,
power, property, much to lose, and little comparatively to gain--men who have put in bail to
a large amount for their good behaviour: and, in the second place, they govern us, because
really and truly there are so many outrageously discordant political quacks, desirous of taking
our case in hand, that we find it our interest to entrust our public health to an accomplished
physician, even although he charges a guinea a visit, and refuses to insure a perfect cure
with a box of pills costing thirteenpence-halfpenny. There can be no doubt whatever, that the
most careful men are the men who have most to care for: he that has a great deal to lose, will
think twice, where he that has nothing to lose, will not think at all: and the government of
this vast and powerful empire, we imagine, with great deference, must require a good deal of
thinking. In a free press, we have a never-dying exponent of public opinion, a perpetual advocate
of rational liberty, and a powerful engine for the exposure, which is ultimately the redress,
of wrong: and although this influential member of our government receives no public money,
nor is called right honourable, nor speaks in the House, yet in fact and in truth it has a
seat in the Cabinet, and, upon momentous occasions, a voice of thunder.

That the aristocracy of power should be in advance of public opinion, is not in the nature
of things, and should no more be imputed as a crime to them, than to us not to run when we
are not in a hurry: they cannot, as a body, move upwards, because they stand so near the top,
that dangerous ambition is extinguished; and it is hardly to be expected that, as a body, they
should move downwards, unless they find themselves supported in their position upon the right
of others, in which case we have always seen that, although they descend gradually, they descend
at last.

This immobility of our aristocracy is the origin of the fixity of our political institutions,
which has been, is, and will continue to be, the great element of our pre-eminence as a nation:
it possesses a force corrective and directive, and at once restrains the excess, while it affords
a point of resistance, to the current of the popular will. And this immobility, it should never
be forgotten, is owing to that very elevation so hated and so envied: wanting which the aristocracy
would be subject to the vulgar ambitions, vulgar passions, and sordid desires of meaner aspirants
after personal advantage and distinction. It is a providential blessing, we firmly believe,
to a great nation to possess a class, by fortune and station, placed above the unseemly contentions
of adventurers in public life: looked up to as men responsible without hire for the public
weal, and, without sordid ambitions of their own, solicitous to preserve it: looked up to,
moreover, as examples of that refinement of feeling, jealous sense of honour, and manly independence,
serving as detersives of the grosser humours of commercial life, and which, filtering through
the successive strata of society, clarify and purify in their course, leaving the very dregs
the cleaner for their passage.

A body thus by habit and constitution opposed to innovation, and determined against the recklessness
of inconsiderate reforms, has furnished a stock argument to those who delight in "going a-head"
faster than their feet, which are the grounds of their arguments, can carry them. We hear the
aristocracy called stumbling-blocks in the way of legislative improvements, and, with greater
propriety of metaphor, likened to drags upon the wheel of progressive reform; and so on, through
all the regions of illustration, until we are in at the death of the metaphor. How happens
to be overlooked the advantage of this anti-progressive barrier, to the concentration and deepening
of the flood of opinion on any given subject? how is it that men are apt altogether to forget
that this very barrier it is which prevents the too eager crowd from trampling one another
to death in their haste? which gives time for the ebullitions of unreasoning zeal, and reckless
enthusiasm, and the dregs of agitation, quietly to subside; and, for all that, bears the impress
of reason and sound sense to circulate with accumulated pressure through the public mind? Were
it not for the barrier which the aristocracy of power thus interposes for a time, only to withdraw
when the time for interposition is past, we should live in a vortex of revolution and counter-revolution.
Our whole time, and our undivided energies, would be employed in acting hastily, and repenting
at leisure; in repining either because our biennial revolutions went too far, or did not go
far enough; in expending our national strength in the unprofitable struggles of faction with
faction, adventurer with adventurer: with every change we should become more changeful, and
with every settlement more unsettled: one by one our distant colonies would follow the bright
example of our people at home, and our commerce and trade would fall with our colonial empire.
In fine, we should become in the eyes of the world what France now is--a people ready to sacrifice
every solid advantage, every gradual, and therefore permanent, improvement, every ripening
fruit that time and care, and the sunshine of peace only can mature, to a genius for revolution.

This turbulent torrent of headlong reform, to-day flooding its banks, to-morrow dribbling in
a half-dry channel, the aristocracy of power collects, concentrates, and converts into a power,
even while it circumscribes it, and represses. So have we seen a mountain stream useless in
summer, dangerous in winter, now a torrent now a puddle, wasting its unprofitable waters in
needless brawling; let a barrier be opposed to its downward course, let it be dammed up, let
a point of resistance be afforded where its waters may be gathered together, and regulated,
you find it turned to valuable account, acting with men's hands, becoming a productive labourer,
and contributing its time and its industry to advance the general sum of rational improvement.

From the material to the moral world you may always reason by analogy. If you study the theory
of revolutions, you will not fail to observe that, wherever, in constructing your barrier,
you employ ignorant engineers, who have not duly calculated the depth and velocity of the current;
whenever you raise your dam to such a height that no flood will carry away the waste waters;
whenever you talk of finality to the torrent, saying, thus long shalt thou flow, and no longer;
whenever you put upon your power a larger wheel than it can turn--you are slowly but surely
preparing for that flood which will overwhelm your work, destroy your mills, your dams, and
your engines; in a word, you are the remote cause of a revolution.

This is the danger into which aristocracies of power are prone to fall: the error of democracies
is, to delight in the absolutism of liberty; but thus it is with liberty itself, that true
dignity of man, that parent of all blessings: absolute and uncontrolled, a tyranny beyond the
power to endure itself, the worst of bad masters, a fool who is his own client; restrained
and tempered, it becomes a wholesome discipline, a property with its rights and its duties,
a sober responsibility, bringing with it, like all other responsibilities, its pleasures and
its cares; not a toy to be played with, nor even a jewel to be worn in the bonnet, but a talent
to be put out to interest, and enjoyed in the unbroken tranquillity of national thankfulness
and peace.

Another defect in the aristocracy of power is, the narrow sphere of their sympathies, extending
only to those they know, and are familiar with; that is to say, only as far as the circumference
of their own limited circle. This it is that renders them keenly apprehensive of danger close
at hand, but comparatively indifferent to that which menaces them from a distance. Placed upon
a lofty eminence, they are comparatively indifferent while clouds obscure, and thunder rattles
along the vale; their resistance is of a passive kind, directed not to the depression of those
beneath them, nor to overcome pressure from above, but to preserve themselves in the enviable
eminence of their position, and there to establish themselves in permanent security.

As a remedy for this short-sightedness, the result of their isolated position, the aristocracy
of power is always prompt to borrow from the aristocracy of talent that assistance in the practical
working of its government which it requires; they are glad to find safe men among the people
to whom they can delegate the cares of office, the annoyances of patronage, and the odium of
power; and, the better to secure these men, they are always ready to lift them among themselves,
to identify them with their exclusive interests, and to give them a permanent establishment
among the nobles of the land.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PHILOSOPHY OF DRESS.

Perhaps we may be expected to say something of the dress of men of fashion, as it is peculiar,
and not less characteristic than their manner. Their clothes, like their lives, are usually
of a neutral tint; staring colours they studiously eschew, and are never seen with elaborate
gradations of under waistcoats. They would as soon appear out of doors in cuerpo, as in blue
coats with gilt buttons, or braided military frocks, or any dress smacking of the professional.
When they indulge in fancy colours and patterns, you will not fail to remark that these are
not worn, although imitated by others. The moment a dressy man of fashion finds that any thing
he has patronized gets abroad, he drops the neckcloth or vest, or whatever it may be, and condemns
the tailor as an "unsafe" fellow. But it is not often that even the most dressy of our men
of fashion originate any thing outré, or likely to attract attention; of late years their style
has been plain, almost to scrupulosity.

Notwithstanding that the man of fashion is plainly dressed, no more than ordinary penetration
is required to see that he is excellently well dressed. His coat is plain, to be sure, much
plainer than the coat of a Jew-clothesman, having neither silk linings, nor embroidered pocket-holes,
nor cut velvet buttons, nor fur collar; but see how it fits him--not like cast iron, nor like
a wet sack, but as if he had been born in it.

There is a harmony, a propriety in the coat of a man of fashion, an unstudied ease, a graceful
symmetry, a delicacy of expression, that has always filled us with the profoundest admiration
of the genius of the artist; indeed, no ready money could purchase coats that we have seen--coats
that a real love of the subject, and working upon long credit, for a high connexion, could
alone have given to the world--coats, not the dull conceptions of a geometric cutter, spiritlessly
outlined upon the shop-board by the crayon of a mercenary foreman, but the fortunate creation
of superior intelligence, boldly executed in the happy moments of a generous enthusiasm!

Vain, very vain is it for the pretender to fashion to go swelling into the atelier of a first-rate
coat architect, with his ready money in his hand, to order such a coat! Order such a coat,
forsooth! order a Raphael, a Michael Angelo, an epic poem. Such a coat--we say it with the
generous indignation of a free Briton--is one of the exclusive privileges reserved, by unjust
laws, to a selfish aristocracy!

The aristocratic trouser-cutter, too, deserves our unlimited approbation. Nothing more distinguishes
the nineteenth century, in which those who can manage it have the happiness to live, than the
precision we have attained in trouser-cutting. While yet the barbarism of the age, or poverty
of customers, vested the office of trouser-cutter and coat architect in the same functionary,
coats were without soul, and "inexpressibles" inexpressibly bad, or, as Coleridge would have
said, "ridiculous exceedingly." In our day, on the contrary, we have attained to such a pitch
of excellence, that the trouser-cutter who fails to give expression to his works, is hunted
into the provinces, and condemned for life to manufacture nether garments for clergymen and
country gentlemen.

The results of the minute division of labour, to which so much of the excellence of all that
is excellent in London is mainly owing, is in nothing more apparent than in that department
of the fine arts which people devoid of taste call fashionable tailoring. We have at the West
End fashionable artistes in riding coats, in dress coats, in cut-aways; one is superlative
in a Taglioni, another devotes the powers of his mind exclusively to the construction of a
Chesterfield, a third gives the best years of his life to the symmetrical beauty of a barrel-trouser;
from the united exertions of these, and a thousand other men of taste and genius, is your indisputably-dressed
man of fashion turned out upon the town. Then there are constructors of Horse Guards' and of
Foot Guards' jacket, full and undress; the man who contrives these would expire if desired
to turn his attention to the coat of a marching regiment; a hussar-pelisse-maker despises the
hard, heavy style of the cutters for the Royal Artillery, and so on. Volumes would not shut
if we were to fill them with the infinite variety of these disguisers of that nakedness which
formerly was our shame, but which latterly, it would seem, has become our pride. With the exception
of one gentleman citywards, who has achieved an immortality in the article of box-coats, every
contriver of men of fashion, we mean in the tailoring, which is the principal department, reside
in the parish of St James's, within easy reach of their distinguished patrons. These gentlemen
have a high and self-respecting idea of the nobleness and utility of their vocation. A friend
of ours, of whom we know no harm save that he pays his tailors' bills, being one day afflicted
with this unusual form of insanity, desired the artist to deduct some odd shillings from his
bill; in a word, to make it pounds--"Excuse me, sir," said Snip, "but pray, let us not talk
of pounds--pounds for tradesmen, if you please; but artists, sir, artists are always remunerated
with guineas!"

