DOCTOR THORNE

by

Anthony Trollope

First published in 1858

CONTENTS

         I. The Greshams of Greshamsbury
        II. Long, Long Ago
       III. Dr Thorne
        IV. Lessons from Courcy Castle
         V. Frank Gresham's First Speech
        VI. Frank Gresham's Early Loves
       VII. The Doctor's Garden
      VIII. Matrimonial Prospects
        IX. Sir Roger Scatcherd
         X. Sir Roger's Will
        XI. The Doctor Drinks His Tea
       XII. When Greek Meets Greek, Then Comes the Tug of War
      XIII. The Two Uncles
       XIV. Sentence of Exile
        XV. Courcy
       XVI. Miss Dunstable
      XVII. The Election
     XVIII. The Rivals
       XIX. The Duke of Omnium
        XX. The Proposal
       XXI. Mr Moffat Falls into Trouble
      XXII. Sir Roger Is Unseated
      XXII. Retrospective
      XXIV. Louis Scatcherd
       XXV. Sir Roger Dies
      XXVI. War
     XXVII. Miss Thorne Goes on a Visit
    XXVIII. The Doctor Hears Something to His Advantage
      XXIX. The Donkey Ride
       XXX. Post Prandial
      XXXI. The Small End of the Wedge
     XXXII. Mr Oriel
    XXXIII. A Morning Visit
     XXXIV. A Barouche and Four Arrives at Greshamsbury
      XXXV. Sir Louis Goes Out to Dinner
     XXXVI. Will He Come Again?
    XXXVII. Sir Louis Leaves Greshamsbury
   XXXVIII. De Courcy Precepts and de Courcy Practice
     XXXIX. What the World Says about Blood
        XL. The Two Doctors Change Patients
       XLI. Doctor Thorne Won't Interfere
      XLII. What Can You Give in Return?
     XLIII. The Race of Scatcherd Becomes Extinct
      XLIV. Saturday Evening and Sunday Morning
       XLV. Law Business in London
      XLVI. Our Pet Fox Finds a Tail
     XLVII. How the Bride Was Received, and Who Were Asked
            to the Wedding

CHAPTER I

The Greshams of Greshamsbury

Before the reader is introduced to the modest country medical practitioner who is to be the
chief personage of the following tale, it will be well that he should be made acquainted with
some particulars as to the locality in which, and the neighbours among whom, our doctor followed
his profession.

There is a county in the west of England not so full of life, indeed, nor so widely spoken
of as some of its manufacturing leviathan brethren in the north, but which is, nevertheless,
very dear to those who know it well. Its green pastures, its waving wheat, its deep and shady
and--let us add--dirty lanes, its paths and stiles, its tawny-coloured, well-built rural churches,
its avenues of beeches, and frequent Tudor mansions, its constant county hunt, its social graces,
and the general air of clanship which pervades it, has made it to its own inhabitants a favoured
land of Goshen. It is purely agricultural; agricultural in its produce, agricultural in its
poor, and agricultural in its pleasures. There are towns in it, of course; dépôts from whence
are brought seeds and groceries, ribbons and fire-shovels; in which markets are held and county
balls are carried on; which return members to Parliament, generally--in spite of Reform Bills,
past, present, and coming--in accordance with the dictates of some neighbouring land magnate:
from whence emanate the country postmen, and where is located the supply of post-horses necessary
for county visitings. But these towns add nothing to the importance of the county; they consist,
with the exception of the assize town, of dull, all but death-like single streets. Each possesses
two pumps, three hotels, ten shops, fifteen beer-houses, a beadle, and a market-place.

Indeed, the town population of the county reckons for nothing when the importance of the county
is discussed, with the exception, as before said, of the assize town, which is also a cathedral
city. Herein is a clerical aristocracy, which is certainly not without its due weight. A resident
bishop, a resident dean, an archdeacon, three or four resident prebendaries, and all their
numerous chaplains, vicars, and ecclesiastical satellites, do make up a society sufficiently
powerful to be counted as something by the county squirearchy. In other respects the greatness
of Barsetshire depends wholly on the landed powers.

Barsetshire, however, is not now so essentially one whole as it was before the Reform Bill
divided it. There is in these days an East Barsetshire, and there is a West Barsetshire; and
people conversant with Barsetshire doings declare that they can already decipher some difference
of feeling, some division of interests. The eastern moiety of the county is more purely Conservative
than the western; there is, or was, a taint of Peelism in the latter; and then, too, the residence
of two such great Whig magnates as the Duke of Omnium and the Earl de Courcy in that locality
in some degree overshadows and renders less influential the gentlemen who live near them.

It is to East Barsetshire that we are called. When the division above spoken of was first contemplated,
in those stormy days in which gallant men were still combatting reform ministers, if not with
hope, still with spirit, the battle was fought by none more bravely than by John Newbold Gresham
of Greshamsbury, the member for Barsetshire. Fate, however, and the Duke of Wellington were
adverse, and in the following Parliament John Newbold Gresham was only member for East Barsetshire.

Whether or not it was true, as stated at the time, that the aspect of the men with whom he
was called on to associate at St Stephen's broke his heart, it is not for us now to inquire.
It is certainly true that he did not live to see the first year of the reformed Parliament
brought to a close. The then Mr Gresham was not an old man at the time of his death, and his
eldest son, Francis Newbold Gresham, was a very young man; but, notwithstanding his youth,
and notwithstanding other grounds of objection which stood in the way of such preferment, and
which must be explained, he was chosen in his father's place. The father's services had been
too recent, too well appreciated, too thoroughly in unison with the feelings of those around
him to allow of any other choice; and in this way young Frank Gresham found himself member
for East Barsetshire, although the very men who elected him knew that they had but slender
ground for trusting him with their suffrages.

Frank Gresham, though then only twenty-four years of age, was a married man, and a father.
He had already chosen a wife, and by his choice had given much ground of distrust to the men
of East Barsetshire. He had married no other than Lady Arabella de Courcy, the sister of the
great Whig earl who lived at Courcy Castle in the west; that earl who not only voted for the
Reform Bill, but had been infamously active in bringing over other young peers so to vote,
and whose name therefore stank in the nostrils of the staunch Tory squires of the county.

Not only had Frank Gresham so wedded, but having thus improperly and unpatriotically chosen
a wife, he had added to his sins by becoming recklessly intimate with his wife's relations.
It is true that he still called himself a Tory, belonged to the club of which his father had
been one of the most honoured members, and in the days of the great battle got his head broken
in a row, on the right side; but, nevertheless, it was felt by the good men, true and blue,
of East Barsetshire, that a constant sojourner at Courcy Castle could not be regarded as a
consistent Tory. When, however, his father died, that broken head served him in good stead:
his sufferings in the cause were made the most of; these, in unison with his father's merits,
turned the scale, and it was accordingly decided, at a meeting held at the George and Dragon,
at Barchester, that Frank Gresham should fill his father's shoes.

