WHAT THE MOON SAW:

                           AND OTHER TALES.

                                  BY

                          HANS C. ANDERSEN.

                            TRANSLATED BY

                         H. W. DULCKEN, PH.D.

              WITH EIGHTY ILLUSTRATIONS BY A. W. BAYES,

                  ENGRAVED BY THE BROTHERS DALZIEL.

                               LONDON:

                      GEORGE ROUTLEDGE AND SONS,

                       BROADWAY, LUDGATE HILL.

                                1866.

*** The two volumes, "STORIES AND TALES" and "WHAT THE MOON SAW," form the most complete collection
of HANS C. ANDERSEN'S Tales published in this country.

       *       *       *       *       *

PREFACE.

The present book is put forth as a sequel to the volume of HANS C. ANDERSEN'S "Stories and
Tales," published in a similar form in the course of 1864. It contains tales and sketches various
in character; and following, as it does, an earlier volume, care has been taken to intersperse
with the children's tales stories which, by their graver character and deeper meaning, are
calculated to interest those "children of a larger growth" who can find instruction as well
as amusement in the play of fancy and imagination, though the realm be that of fiction, and
the instruction be conveyed in a simple form.

The series of sketches of "What the Moon Saw," with which the present volume opens, arose from
the experiences of ANDERSEN, when as a youth he went to seek his fortune in the capital of
his native land; and the story entitled "Under the Willow Tree" is said likewise to have its
foundation in fact; indeed, it seems redolent of the truth of that natural human love and suffering
which is so truly said to "make the whole world kin."

On the preparation and embellishment of the book, the same care and attention have been lavished
as on the preceding volume. The pencil of Mr. BAYES and the graver of the BROTHERS DALZIEL
have again been employed in the work of illustration; and it is hoped that the favour bestowed
by the public on the former volume may be extended to this its successor.

H. W. D.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.

                                                         PAGE

What the Moon Saw                                          1

The Story of the Year                                     40

She was Good for Nothing                                  48

"There is a Difference"                                   55

Everything in its Right Place                             59

The Goblin and the Huckster                               66

In a Thousand Years                                       70

The Bond of Friendship                                    72

Jack the Dullard. An Old Story told Anew                  81

Something                                                 86

Under the Willow Tree                                     92

The Beetle                                               107

What the Old Man does is always Right                    114

The Wind tells about Waldemar Daa and his Daughters      120

Ib and Christine                                         130

Ole the Tower-Keeper                                     142

The Bottle-Neck                                          151

Good Humour                                              161

A Leaf from the Sky                                      165

The Dumb Book                                            168

The Jewish Girl                                          171

The Thorny Road of Honour                                176

The Old Gravestone                                       180

The Old Bachelor's Nightcap                              184

The Marsh King's Daughter                                196

The Last Dream of the Old Oak Tree.

[Footnote 1: Travellers on the Continent have frequent opportunities of seeing how universally
this custom prevails among travellers. But what will you have? You can't be always getting
something new.

THE STORY OF THE YEAR.

It was far in January, and a terrible fall of snow was pelting down. The snow eddied through
the streets and lanes; the window-panes seemed plastered with snow on the outside; snow plumped
down in masses from the roofs: and a sudden hurry had seized on the people, for they ran, and
flew, and fell into each others' arms, and as they clutched each other fast for a moment, they
felt that they were safe at least for that length of time.

Towards evening it grew calm. The sky looked as if it had been swept, and had become more lofty
and transparent. The stars looked as if they were quite new, and some of them were amazingly
bright and pure. It froze so hard that the snow creaked, and the upper rind of snow might well
have grown hard enough to bear the sparrows in the morning dawn. These little birds hopped
up and down where the sweeping had been done; but they found very little food, and were not
a little cold.

"Piep!" said one of them to another; "they call this a new year, and it is worse than the last!
We might just as well have kept the old one. I'm dissatisfied, and I've a right to be so."

"Yes; and the people ran about and fired off shots to celebrate the new year," said a little
shivering sparrow; "and they threw pans and pots against the doors, and were quite boisterous
with joy, because the old year was gone. I was glad of it too, because I hoped we should have
had warm days; but that has come to nothing--it freezes much harder than before. People have
made a mistake in reckoning the time!"

"But when will spring come?" the others inquired.

"It will come when the stork comes back. But his movements are very uncertain, and here in
town no one knows anything about it: in the country they are better informed. Shall we fly
out there and wait? There, at any rate, we shall be nearer to spring."

"Yes, that may be all very well," observed one of the sparrows, who had been hopping about
for a long time, chirping, without saying anything decided. "I've found a few comforts here
in town, which I am afraid I should miss out in the country. Near this neighbourhood, in a
courtyard, there lives a family of people, who have taken the very sensible notion of placing
three or four flower-pots against the wall, with their mouths all turned inwards, and the bottom
of each pointing outwards. In each flower-pot a hole has been cut, big enough for me to fly
in and out at it. I and my husband have built a nest in one of those pots, and have brought
up our young family there. The family of people of course made the whole arrangement that they
might have the pleasure of seeing us, or else they would not have done it. To please themselves
they also strew crumbs of bread; and so we have food, and are in a manner provided for. So
I think my husband and I will stay where we are, although we are very dissatisfied--but we
shall stay."

"And we will fly into the country to see if spring is not coming!" And away they flew.

Out in the country it was hard winter, and the glass was a few degrees lower than in the town.
The sharp winds swept across the snow-covered fields. The farmer, muffled in warm mittens,
sat in his sledge, and beat his arms across his breast to warm himself, and the whip lay across
his knees. The horses ran till they smoked again. The snow creaked, and the sparrows hopped
about in the ruts, and shivered, "Piep! when will spring come? it is very long in coming!"

"Very long," sounded from the next snow-covered hill, far over the field. It might be the echo
which was heard; or perhaps the words were spoken by yonder wonderful old man, who sat in wind
and weather high on the heap of snow.

"Who is that old man yonder?" asked the sparrows.

"I know who he is," quoth an old raven, who sat on the fence-rail, and was condescending enough
to acknowledge that we are all like little birds in the sight of Heaven, and therefore was
not above speaking to the sparrows, and giving them information. "I know who the old man is.
It is Winter, the old man of last year. He is not dead, as the calendar says, but is guardian
to little Prince Spring, who is to come. Yes, Winter bears sway here. Ugh! the cold makes you
shiver, does it not, you little ones?"

"Yes. Did I not tell the truth?" said the smallest sparrow: "the calendar is only an invention
of man, and is not arranged according to nature! They ought to leave these things to us, who
are born cleverer than they."

And one week passed away, and two passed away. The frozen lake lay hard and stiff, looking
like a sheet of lead, and damp icy mists lay brooding over the land; the great black crows
flew about in long rows, but silently; and it seemed as if nature slept. Then a sunbeam glided
along over the lake, and made it shine like burnished tin. The snowy covering on the field
and on the hill did not glitter as it had done; but the white form, Winter himself, still sat
there, his gaze fixed unswervingly upon the south. He did not notice that the snowy carpet
seemed to sink as it were into the earth, and that here and there a little grass-green patch
appeared, and that all these patches were crowded with sparrows. On the back of each sat a
pretty little child--one was a girl and the other a boy. They greeted the earth with a kiss,
and wherever they set their feet, white flowers grew up from beneath the snow. Then they went
hand in hand to the old ice man, Winter, clung to his breast embracing him, and in a moment
they, and he, and all the region around were hidden in a thick damp mist, dark and heavy, that
closed over all like a veil.

"That's what I call spring," cried each of the sparrows. "Now we shall get our rights, and
have amends for the stern winter."

Wherever the two children turned, green buds burst forth on bushes and trees, the grass shot
upwards, and the corn-fields turned green and became more and more lovely. And the little maiden
strewed flowers all around. Her apron, which she held up before her, was always full of them;
they seemed to spring up there, for her lap continued full, however zealously she strewed the
blossoms around; and in her eagerness she scattered a snow of blossoms over apple trees and
peach trees, so that they stood in full beauty before their green leaves had fairly come forth.

And she clapped her hands, and the boy clapped his, and then flocks of birds came flying up,
nobody knew whence, and they all twittered and sang, "Spring has come."

That was beautiful to behold. Many an old granny crept forth over the threshold into the sunshine,
and tripped gleefully about, casting a glance at the yellow flowers which shone everywhere
in the fields, just as they used to do when she was young. The world grew young again to her,
and she said, "It is a blessed day out here to-day!"

The forest still wore its brown-green dress, made of buds; but the thyme was already there,
fresh and fragrant; there were violets in plenty, anemones and primroses came forth, and there
was sap and strength in every blade of grass. That was certainly a beautiful carpet on which
no one could resist sitting down, and there accordingly the young spring pair sat hand in hand,
and sang and smiled, and grew on.

A mild rain fell down upon them from the sky, but they did not notice it, for the rain-drops
were mingled with their own tears of joy. They kissed each other, and were betrothed as people
that should marry, and in the same moment the verdure of the woods was unfolded, and when the
sun rose, the forest stood there arrayed in green.

And hand in hand the betrothed pair wandered under the fresh pendent ocean of leaves, where
the rays of the sun gleamed through the interstices in lovely, changing hues. What virgin purity,
what refreshing balm in the delicate leaves! The brooks and streams rippled clearly and merrily
among the green velvety rushes and over the coloured pebbles. All nature seemed to say, "There
is plenty, and there shall be plenty always!" And the cuckoo sang and the lark carolled: it
was a charming spring; but the willows had woolly gloves over their blossoms: they were desperately
careful, and that is wearisome.

And days went by and weeks went by, and the heat came as it were whirling down. Hot waves of
air came through the corn, that became yellower and yellower. The white water-lily of the north
spread its great green leaves over the glassy mirror of the woodland lakes, and the fishes
sought out the shady spots beneath; and at the sheltered side of the wood, where the sun shone
down upon the walls of the farmhouse, warming the blooming roses, and the cherry trees, which
hung full of juicy black berries, almost hot with the fierce beams, there sat the lovely wife
of Summer, the same being whom we have seen as a child and as a bride; and her glance was fixed
upon the black gathering clouds, which in wavy outlines--blue-black and heavy--were piling
themselves up, like mountains, higher and higher. They came from three sides, and growing like
a petrified sea, they came swooping towards the forest, where every sound had been silenced
as if by magic. Every breath of air was hushed, every bird was mute. There was a seriousness--a
suspense throughout all nature; but in the highways and lanes, foot passengers, and riders,
and men in carriages were hurrying on to get under shelter. The rain poured down in streams,
and there was alternate darkness and blinding light; alternate silence and deafening clamour.
The young, brown, feathery reeds on the moor moved to and fro in long waves, the twigs of the
woods were hidden in a mist of waters, and still came darkness and light, and still silence
and roaring followed one another; grass and corn lay beaten down and swamped, looking as though
they could never raise themselves again. All nature round about was renewed, everything stood
luxuriant, strong and beautiful; it was summer, warm, lovely summer.

And the evening sky shone like gold, shone as no church dome can shine; and in the interval
between the evening and the morning red, there was moonlight: it was summer.

And days went by, and weeks went by. The bright scythes of the reapers gleamed in the corn-fields;
the branches of the apple trees bent down, heavy with red-and-yellow fruit. The hops smelt
sweetly, hanging in large clusters; and under the hazel bushes where hung great bunches of
nuts, rested a man and woman--Summer and his quiet consort.

"What wealth!" exclaimed the woman: "all around a blessing is diffused, everywhere the scene
looks homelike and good; and yet--I know not why--I long for peace and rest--I know not how
to express it. Now they are already ploughing again in the field. The people want to gain more
and more. The rose bush gleamed with scarlet hips; the elder branches hung down with great
heavy bunches of dark berries; the wild chestnuts fell ripe from their dark husks; and in the
depths of the forests the violets bloomed for the second time.

But the Queen of the Year became more and more silent, and paler and paler. "It blows cold,"
she said, "and night brings damp mists. In one of them the long-stalked cornflower was growing;
in another, the yellow mustard-seed, as if the nest were only there for its protection and
comfort; and the sparrows were flying up into the storks' nests.

"Piep! where has the master gone? The year was far advanced, and the Queen of the Year reclined
upon the fallen yellow leaves, and looked with mild eyes at the gleaming star, and her husband
stood by her. A gust swept through the leaves; they fell again in a shower, and the Queen was
gone, but a butterfly, the last of the season, flew through the cold air.

The wet fogs came, an icy wind blew, and the long dark nights drew on apace. The Ruler of the
Year stood there with locks white as snow, but he knew not it was his hair that gleamed so
white--he thought snow-flakes were falling from the clouds; and soon a thin covering of snow
was spread over the fields.

And then the church bells rang for the Christmas time.

"The bells ring for the new-born," said the Ruler of the Year. In a few weeks he had become
a very old man, white as snow. "My time for rest draws near, and the young pair of the year
shall now receive my crown and sceptre."

"But the might is still thine," said the Angel of Christmas; "the might and not the rest. Let
the snow lie warmly upon the young seed. Learn to bear it, that another receives homage while
thou yet reignest. Learn to bear being forgotten while thou art yet alive. The ice cracked,
the snow creaked, the skaters skimmed to and fro on the smooth lakes, ravens and crows contrasted
picturesquely with the white ground, and not a breath of wind stirred. And in the quiet air
old Winter clenched his fists, and the ice was fathoms thick between land and land.

Then the sparrows came again out of the town, and asked, "Who is that old man yonder?" And
the raven sat there again, or a son of his, which comes to quite the same thing, and answered
them and said, "It is Winter, the old man of last year. He is not dead, as the almanack says,
but he is the guardian of Spring, who is coming."

"When will spring come?" asked the sparrows. "Then we shall have good times, and a better rule.
The old one was worth nothing."

And Winter nodded in quiet thought at the leafless forest, where every tree showed the graceful
form and bend of its twigs; and during the winter sleep the icy mists of the clouds came down,
and the ruler dreamed of his youthful days, and of the time of his manhood; and towards the
morning dawn the whole wood was clothed in glittering hoar frost. That was the summer dream
of winter, and the sun scattered the hoar frost from the boughs.

"When will spring come?" asked the sparrows.

"The spring!" sounded like an echo from the hills on which the snow lay. The sun shone warmer,
the snow melted, and the birds twittered, "Spring is coming!"

And aloft through the air came the first stork, and the second followed him. A lovely child
sat on the back of each, and they alighted on the field, kissed the earth, and kissed the old
silent man, and he disappeared, shrouded in the cloudy mist. And the story of the year was done.

"That is all very well," said the sparrows; "it is very beautiful too, but it is not according
to the almanack, and therefore it is irregular."

SHE WAS GOOD FOR NOTHING.

The mayor stood at the open window. His shirt-frill was very fine, and so were his ruffles;
he had a breast-pin stuck in his frill, and was uncommonly smooth-shaven--all his own work;
certainly he had given himself a slight cut, but he had stuck a bit of newspaper on the place.
"Hark 'ee, youngster!" he cried.

The youngster in question was no other than the son of the poor washerwoman, who was just going
past the house; and he pulled off his cap respectfully. The peak of the said cap was broken
in the middle, for the cap was arranged so that it could be rolled up and crammed into his
pocket. In his poor, but clean and well-mended attire, with heavy wooden shoes on his feet,
the boy stood there, as humble and abashed as if he stood opposite the king himself.

"You're a good boy," said Mr. Mayor. "You're a civil boy. I suppose your mother is rinsing
clothes down yonder in the river? I suppose you are to carry that thing to your mother that
you have in your pocket?

"No," replied the boy, "it was yesterday."

"Two halves make a whole. She's good for nothing! It's a sad thing with that kind of people!
Tell your mother that she ought to be ashamed of herself; and mind you don't become a drunkard--but
you will become one, though. Poor child--there, go!"

Accordingly the boy went on his way. He kept his cap in his hand, and the wind played with
his yellow hair, so that great locks of it stood up straight. He turned down by the street
corner, into the little lane that led to the river, where his mother stood by the washing bench,
beating the heavy linen with the mallet. The water rolled quickly along, for the flood-gates
at the mill had been drawn up, and the sheets were caught by the stream, and threatened to
overturn the bench. The washerwoman was obliged to lean against the bench, to support it.

"I was very nearly sailing away," she said. "It is a good thing that you are come, for I have
need to recruit my strength a little. For six hours I've been standing in the water. Have you
brought anything for me?"

The boy produced the bottle, and the mother put it to her mouth, and took a little.

"Ah, how that revives one!" she said: "how it warms! It is as good as a hot meal, and not so
dear. And you, my boy! you look quite pale. You are shivering in your thin clothes--to be sure
it is autumn. Ugh! how cold the water is! I hope I shall not be ill. But no, I shall not be
that! Give me a little more, and you may have a sip too, but only a little sip, for you must
not accustom yourself to it, my poor dear child!"

And she stepped up to the bridge on which the boy stood, and came ashore. The water dripped
from the straw matting she had wound round her, and from her gown.

"I work and toil as much as ever I can," she said, "but I do it willingly, if I can only manage
to bring you up honestly and well, my boy."

As she spoke, a somewhat older woman came towards them. This was a friend of the laundress.
"You really require something to warm you; and yet malicious folks cry out about the few drops
you take!" And in a few minutes' time the mayor's late speech was reported to the laundress;
for Martha had heard it all, and she had been angry that a man could speak as he had done to
a woman's own child, about the few drops the mother took: and she was the more angry, because
the mayor on that very day was giving a great feast, at which wine was drunk by the bottle--good
wine, strong wine. "A good many will take more than they need--but that's not called drinking.
They are good; but you are good for nothing!" cried Martha, indignantly.

"Ah, so he spoke to you, my child?" said the washerwoman; and her lips trembled as she spoke.
"So he says you have a mother who is good for nothing? Well, perhaps he's right, but he should
not have said it to the child. Still, I have had much misfortune from that house."

"You were in service there when the mayor's parents were alive, and lived in that house. The
guests were to have been put off, but it was too late, and the dinner was already cooked. The
footman told me about it. A letter came a little while ago, to say that the younger brother
had died in Copenhagen."

"Died!" repeated the laundress--and she became pale as death.

"Yes, certainly," said Martha. "Do you take that so much to heart? Well, you must have known
him years ago, when you were in service in the house."

"Is he dead? He was such a good, worthy man! There are not many like him." And the tears rolled
down her cheeks. "Good heavens! everything is whirling around me--it was too much for me. I
feel quite ill." And she leaned against the plank.

"Good heavens, you are ill indeed!" exclaimed the other woman. "Come, come, it will pass over
presently. But no, you really look seriously ill. The best thing will be for me to lead you home."

"But my linen yonder--"

"I will take care of that. Come, give me your arm. The boy can stay here and take care of it,
and I'll come back and finish the washing; that's only a trifle."

The laundress's limbs shook under her. "I have stood too long in the cold water," she said
faintly, "and I have eaten and drunk nothing since this morning. The fever is in my bones.
O kind Heaven, help me to get home! My poor child!" and she burst into tears. The boy wept
too, and soon he was sitting alone by the river, beside the damp linen. The two women could
make only slow progress. The laundress dragged her weary limbs along, and tottered through
the lane and round the corner into the street where stood the house of the mayor; and just
in front of his mansion she sank down on the pavement.

"That's the washerwoman!" he said. "She has taken a glass too much. She is good for nothing.
It's a pity for the pretty son she has. I really like the child very well; but the mother is
good for nothing."

Presently the laundress came to herself, and they led her into her poor dwelling, and put her
to bed.

Soon the patient felt a little better. The warm beer had strengthened her, and the fragrance
of the provisions pleased her also. "Thanks, you kind soul," she said to Martha. "I will tell
you all when the boy is asleep. I think he has dropped off already. The student was merry and
kind, good and brave. Every drop of blood in him was good and honest. I have not seen a better
man on this earth. He was the son of the house, and I was only a maid, but we formed an attachment
to each other, honestly and honourably. And he told his mother of it, for she was in his eyes
as a Deity on earth; and she was wise and gentle. He went away on a journey, but before he
started he put his gold ring on my finger; and directly he was gone my mistress called me.
With a firm yet gentle seriousness she spoke to me, and it seemed as if Wisdom itself were
speaking. She showed me clearly, in spirit and in truth, the difference there was between him
and me.

"'Now he is charmed with your pretty appearance,' she said, 'but your good looks will leave
you. You have not been educated as he has. You are not equals in mind, and there is the misfortune.
I respect the poor,' she continued; 'in the sight of God they may occupy a higher place than
many a rich man can fill; but here on earth we must beware of entering a false track as we
go onward, or our carriage is upset, and we are thrown into the road. I know that a worthy
man wishes to marry you--an artisan--I mean Erich the glovemaker. He is a widower without children,
and is well to do. It was a heavy night that I had to pass through. Heaven knows what I suffered
and how I wrestled! The next Sunday I went to the Lord's house, to pray for strength and guidance.
It seemed like a Providence, that as I stepped out of church Erich came towards me. And now
there was no longer a doubt in my mind. We were suited to each other in rank and in means,
and he was even then a thriving man. Therefore I went up to him, took his hand, and said, 'Are
you still of the same mind towards me?' 'Yes, ever and always,' he replied. 'Will you marry
a girl who honours and respects, but who does not love you--though that may come later?' I
asked again. 'Yes, it will come!' he answered; and upon this we joined hands. I went home to
my mistress. I wore the gold ring that the son had given me at my heart. Then my mistress put
her arms round me and kissed me. She did not say that I was good for nothing; but perhaps I
was better then than I am now, though the misfortunes of life had not yet found me out. In
a few weeks we were married; and for the first year the world went well with us: we had a journeyman
and an apprentice, and you, Martha, lived with us as our servant."

"Oh, you were a dear, good mistress," cried Martha. "Never shall I forget how kind you and
your husband were!"

"Yes, those were our good years, when you were with us. We had not any children yet. The student
I never saw again.--Yes, though, I saw him, but he did not see me. He was here at his mother's
funeral. I saw him stand by the grave. He was pale as death, and very downcast, but that was
for his mother; afterwards, when his father died, he was away in a foreign land, and did not
come back hither. I know that he never married; I believe he became a lawyer. He had forgotten
me; and even if he had seen me again, he would not have known me, I look so ugly. And that
is very fortunate."

And then she spoke of her days of trial, and told how misfortune had come as it were swooping
down upon them.

"We had five hundred dollars," she said; "and as there was a house in the street to be bought
for two hundred, and it would pay to pull it down and build a new one, it was bought. The builder
and carpenter calculated the expense, and the new house was to cost ten hundred and twenty!
Erich had credit, and borrowed the money in the chief town, but the captain who was to bring
it was shipwrecked, and the money was lost with him."

"Just at that time my dear sweet boy who is sleeping yonder was born. My husband was struck
down by a long heavy illness: for three quarters of a year I was compelled to dress and undress
him. We went back more and more, and fell into debt. She had just stepped again into the cold
water, when a trembling and faintness seized her: she clutched at the air with her hand, took
a step forward, and fell down. Her head rested on the bank, and her feet were still in the
water: her wooden shoes, with a wisp of straw in each, which she had worn, floated down the
stream, and thus Martha found her on coming to bring her some coffee.

In the meantime a messenger from the mayor's house had been dispatched to her poor lodging
to tell her "to come to the mayor immediately, for he had something to tell her." It was too late!

In the letter that brought the news of his brother's death, the contents of the will had been
mentioned, and it was a legacy of six hundred dollars to the glovemaker's widow, who had once
been his mother's maid. The money was to be paid, according to the mayor's discretion, in larger
or smaller sums, to her or to her child.

"There was some fuss between my brother and her," said the mayor. "It's a good thing that she
is dead; for now the boy will have the whole, and I will get him into a house among respectable
people. He may turn out a reputable working man."

And Heaven gave its blessing to these words.

So the mayor sent for the boy, promised to take care of him, and added that it was a good thing
the lad's mother was dead, inasmuch as she had been good for nothing.

"My dear mother!" he cried, as the tears fell fast. "Is it true what they said: that she was
good for nothing?" "No, she was good for much!" replied the old servant, and she looked up
indignantly. "I knew it many a year ago, and more than all since last night. I tell you she
was worth much, and the Lord in heaven knows it is true, let the world say as much as it chooses,
'She was good for nothing.'"

"THERE IS A DIFFERENCE."

It was in the month of May. The wind still blew cold, but bushes and trees, field and meadow,
all alike said the spring had come. The apple tree branch knew well enough how beautiful he
was, for the knowledge is inherent in the leaf as well as in the blood; and consequently the
branch was not surprised when a nobleman's carriage stopped opposite to him on the road, and
the young countess said that an apple branch was the loveliest thing one could behold, a very
emblem of spring in its most charming form.

But the branch became proud; and this was quite like human nature.

People of various kinds came through the room, and according to their rank they might express
their admiration. A few said nothing at all, and others again said too much, and the apple
tree branch soon got to understand that there was a difference among plants. Certainly there
is a difference, and distinctions must be made, or we should all be equal."

And the apple branch looked down with a species of pity, especially upon a certain kind of
flower of which great numbers are found in the fields and in ditches. No one bound them into
a nosegay, they were too common; for they might be found even among the paving-stones, shooting
up everywhere like the rankest weeds, and they had the ugly name of "dandelion," or "dog-flower."

"Poor despised plants!" said the apple branch. "It is not your fault that you received the
ugly name you bear. But it is with plants as with men--there must be a difference!"

"A difference?" said the sunbeam; and he kissed the blooming apple branch, and saluted in like
manner the yellow dandelions out in the field--all the brothers of the sunbeam kissed them,
the poor flowers as well as the rich.

Now the apple branch had never thought of the boundless beneficence of Providence in creation
towards everything that lives and moves and has its being; he had never thought how much that
is beautiful and good may be hidden, but not forgotten; but that, too, was quite like human nature.

The sunbeam, the ray of light, knew better; and said, "You don't see far, and you don't see
clearly. What is the despised plant that you especially pity?"

"The dandelion," replied the apple branch. "It is never received into a nosegay; it is trodden
under foot. There are too many of them; and when they run to seed, they fly away like little
pieces of wool over the roads, and hang and cling to people's dress. They are nothing but weeds--but
it is right there should be weeds too. Oh, I'm really very thankful that I was not created
one of those flowers."

But there came across the fields a whole troop of children; the youngest of whom was so small
that it was carried by the rest, and when it was set down in the grass among the yellow flowers
it laughed aloud with glee, kicked out with its little legs, rolled about and plucked the yellow
flowers, and kissed them in its pretty innocence. The elder children broke off the flowers
with their tall stalks, and bent the stalks round into one another, link by link, so that a
whole chain was made; first a necklace, and then a scarf to hang over their shoulders and tie
round their waists, and then a chaplet to wear on the head: it was quite a gala of green links
and yellow flowers. The eldest children carefully gathered the stalks on which hung the white
feathery ball, formed by the flower that had run to seed; and this loose, airy wool-flower,
which is a beautiful object, looking like the finest snowy down, they held to their mouths,
and tried to blow away the whole head at one breath: for their grandmother had said that whoever
could do this would be sure to get new clothes before the year was out. So on this occasion
the despised flower was actually raised to the rank of a prophet or augur.

"Do you see?" said the sunbeam. "Do you see the beauty of those flowers? do you see their power?"

"Yes, over children," replied the apple branch.

And now an old woman came into the field, and began to dig with a blunt shaftless knife round
the root of the dandelion plant, and pulled it up out of the ground. With some of the roots
she intended to make tea for herself; others she was going to sell for money to the druggist.

"But beauty is a higher thing!" said the apple tree branch. "Only the chosen few can be admitted
into the realm of beauty.

"Yes, yes, that is your opinion," the apple branch persisted.

But now some people came into the room, and the beautiful young countess appeared, the lady
who had placed the apple branch in the transparent vase in the sunlight. She carried in her
hand a flower, or something of the kind. Very gently the large leaves were now removed, and
lo, there appeared the fine feathery seed crown of the despised dandelion! This it was that
the lady had plucked with the greatest care, and had carried home with every precaution, so
that not one of the delicate feathery darts that form its downy ball should be blown away.
She now produced it, quite uninjured, and admired its beautiful form, its peculiar construction,
and its airy beauty, which was to be scattered by the wind.

"Look, with what singular beauty Providence has invested it," she said. "I will paint it, together
with the apple branch, whose beauty all have admired; but this humble flower has received just
as much from Heaven in a different way; and, various as they are, both are children of the
kingdom of beauty."

And the sunbeam kissed the humble flower, and he kissed the blooming apple branch, whose leaves
appeared covered with a roseate blush.

EVERYTHING IN ITS RIGHT PLACE.

It is more than a hundred years ago.

Behind the wood, by the great lake, stood the old baronial mansion. Round about it lay a deep
moat, in which grew reeds and grass. Close by the bridge, near the entrance-gate, rose an old
willow tree that bent over the reeds.

Up from the hollow lane sounded the clang of horns and the trampling of horses; therefore the
little girl who kept the geese hastened to drive her charges away from the bridge, before the
hunting company should come gallopping up. They drew near with such speed that the girl was
obliged to climb up in a hurry, and perch herself on the coping-stone of the bridge, lest she
should be ridden down. She was still half a child, and had a pretty light figure, and a gentle
expression in her face, with two clear blue eyes. The noble baron took no note of this, but
as he gallopped past the little goose-herd, he reversed the whip he held in his hand, and in
rough sport gave her such a push in the chest with the butt-end, that she fell backwards into
the ditch.

"Everything in its place," he cried; "into the puddle with you!" And he laughed aloud, for
this was intended for wit, and the company joined in his mirth: the whole party shouted and
clamoured, and the dogs barked their loudest.

Fortunately for herself, the poor girl in falling seized one of the hanging branches of the
willow tree, by means of which she kept herself suspended over the muddy water, and as soon
as the baron and his company had disappeared through the castle-gate, the girl tried to scramble
up again; but the bough broke off at the top, and she would have fallen backward among the
reeds, if a strong hand from above had not at that moment seized her. It was the hand of a
pedlar, who had seen from a short distance what had happened, and who now hurried up to give aid.

"Everything in its right place," he said, mimicking the gracious baron; and he drew the little
maiden up to the firm ground. He would have restored the broken branch to the place from which
it had been torn, but "everything in its place" cannot always be managed, and therefore he
stuck the piece in the ground. "Grow and prosper till you can furnish a good flute for them
up yonder," he said; for he would have liked to play the "rogue's march" for my lord the baron,
and my lord's whole family. And then he betook himself to the castle, but not into the ancestral
hall, he was too humble for that! He went to the servants' quarters, and the men and maids
turned over his stock of goods, and bargained with him; and from above, where the guests were
at table, came a sound of roaring and screaming that was intended for song, and indeed they
did their best. Loud laughter, mingled with the barking and howling of dogs, sounded through
the windows, for there was feasting and carousing up yonder. Wine and strong old ale foamed
in the jugs and glasses, and the dogs sat with their masters and dined with them. They had
the pedlar summoned upstairs, but only to make fun of him. The wine had mounted into their
heads, and the sense had flown out. They poured wine into a stocking, that the pedlar might
drink with them, but that he must drink quickly; that was considered a rare jest, and was a
cause of fresh laughter. And then whole farms, with oxen and peasants too, were staked on a
card, and won and lost.

"Everything in its right place!" said the pedlar, when he had at last made his escape out of
what he called "the Sodom and Gomorrah up yonder." "The open high-road is my right place,"
he said; "I did not feel at all happy there." And the little maiden who sat keeping the geese
nodded at him in a friendly way, as he strode along beside the hedges.

And days and weeks went by; and it became manifest that the willow branch which the pedlar
had stuck into the ground by the castle moat remained fresh and green, and even brought forth
new twigs. The little goose-girl saw that the branch must have taken root, and rejoiced greatly
at the circumstance; for this tree, she said, was now her tree.

The tree certainly came forward well; but everything else belonging to the castle went very
rapidly back, what with feasting and gambling--for these two things are like wheels, upon which
no man can stand securely.

Six years had not passed away before the noble lord passed out of the castle-gate, a beggared
man, and the mansion was bought by a rich dealer; and this purchaser was the very man who had
once been made a jest of there, for whom wine had been poured into a stocking; but honesty
and industry are good winds to speed a vessel; and now the dealer was possessor of the baronial
estate. But from that hour no more card-playing was permitted there. "That is bad reading,"
said he: "when the Evil One saw a Bible for the first time, he wanted to put a bad book against
it, and invented card-playing."

The new proprietor took a wife; and who might that be but the goose-girl, who had always been
faithful and good, and looked as beautiful and fine in her new clothes as if she had been born
a great lady. And how did all this come about? That is too long a story for our busy time,
but it really happened, and the most important part is to come.

It was a good thing now to be in the old mansion. The mother managed the domestic affairs,
and the father superintended the estate, and it seemed as if blessings were streaming down.
Where rectitude enters in, prosperity is sure to follow. The old house was cleaned and painted,
the ditches were cleared and fruit trees planted. Everything wore a bright cheerful look, and
the floors were as polished as a draught board. In the long winter evenings the lady sat at
the spinning-wheel with her maids, and every Sunday evening there was a reading from the Bible,
by the Councillor of Justice himself--this title the dealer had gained, though it was only
in his old age. The children grew up--for children had come--and they received the best education,
though all had not equal abilities, as we find indeed in all families.

In the meantime the willow branch at the castle-gate had grown to be a splendid tree, which
stood there free and self-sustained. "That is our genealogical tree," the old people said,
and the tree was to be honoured and respected--so they told all the children, even those who
had not very good heads.

And a hundred years rolled by.

It was in our own time. The lake had been converted to moorland, and the old mansion had almost
disappeared. A pool of water and the ruins of some walls, this was all that was left of the
old baronial castle, with its deep moat; and here stood also a magnificent old willow, with
pendent boughs, which seemed to show how beautiful a tree may be if left to itself. The main
stem was certainly split from the root to the crown, and the storm had bowed the noble tree
a little; but it stood firm for all that, and from every cleft into which wind and weather
had carried a portion of earth, grasses and flowers sprang forth: especially near the top,
where the great branches parted, a sort of hanging garden had been formed of wild raspberry
bush, and even a small quantity of mistletoe had taken root, and stood, slender and graceful,
in the midst of the old willow which was mirrored in the dark water. A field-path led close
by the old tree.

High by the forest hill, with a splendid prospect in every direction, stood the new baronial
hall, large and magnificent, with panes of glass so clearly transparent, that it looked as
if there were no panes there at all. The grand flight of steps that led to the entrance looked
like a bower of roses and broad-leaved plants. The lawn was as freshly green as if each separate
blade of grass were cleaned morning and evening. In the hall hung costly pictures; silken chairs
and sofas stood there, so easy that they looked almost as if they could run by themselves;
there were tables of great marble slabs, and books bound in morocco and gold. Yes, truly, wealthy
people lived here, people of rank: the baron with his family.

All things here corresponded with each other. The motto was still "Everything in its right
place;" and therefore all the pictures which had been put up in the old house for honour and
glory, hung now in the passage that led to the servants' hall: they were considered as old
lumber, and especially two old portraits, one representing a man in a pink coat and powdered
wig, the other a lady with powdered hair and holding a rose in her hand, and each surrounded
with a wreath of willow leaves. These two pictures were pierced with many holes, because the
little barons were in the habit of setting up the old people as a mark for their cross-bows.
The pictures represented the Councillor of Justice and his lady, the founders of the present
family.

"But they did not properly belong to our family," said one of the little barons. "He was a
dealer, and she had kept the geese. They were not like papa and mamma."

The pictures were pronounced to be worthless; and as the motto was "Everything in its right
place," the great-grandmother and great-grandfather had been sent into the passage that led
to the servants' hall.

The son of the neighbouring clergyman was tutor in the great house. One day he was out walking
with his pupils, the little barons and their eldest sister, who had just been confirmed; they
came along the field-path, past the old willow, and as they walked on the young lady bound
a wreath of field flowers, "Everything in its right place," and the flowers formed a pretty
whole. At the same time she heard every word that was spoken, and she liked to hear the clergyman's
son talk of the power of nature and of the great men and women in history. She had a good hearty
disposition, with true nobility of thought and soul, and a heart full of love for all that
God hath created.

The party came to a halt at the old willow tree. The youngest baron insisted on having such
a flute cut for him from it as he had had made of other willows. Accordingly the tutor broke
off a branch.

"Oh, don't do that!" cried the young baroness; but it was done already. "That is our famous
old tree," she continued, "and I love it dearly. They laugh at me at home for this, but I don't
mind.

"They would not be ennobled, the good old folks!" she said. The others at home love him best;
but, I don't know how, there seems to me something about that first pair that draws my heart
towards them. How comfortable, how patriarchal it must have been in the old house, where the
mistress sat at the spinning-wheel among her maids, and the old master read aloud from the Bible!"

"They were charming, sensible people," said the clergyman's son; and with this the conversation
naturally fell upon nobles and citizens. The young man scarcely seemed to belong to the citizen
class, so well did he speak concerning the purpose and meaning of nobility. He said,

"It is a great thing to belong to a family that has distinguished itself, and thus to have,
as it were, in one's blood, a spur that urges one on to make progress in all that is good.
It is delightful to have a name that serves as a card of admission into the highest circles.
Nobility means that which is great and noble: it is a coin that has received a stamp to indicate
what it is worth. It is the fallacy of the time, and many poets have frequently maintained
this fallacy, that nobility of birth is accompanied by foolishness, and that the lower you
go among the poor, the more does everything around shine. But that is not my view, for I consider
it entirely false. In the higher classes many beautiful and kindly traits are found. My mother
told me one of this kind, and I could tell you many others.

"My mother was on a visit to a great family in town. My grandmother, I think, had been housekeeper
to the count's mother. The great nobleman and my mother were alone in the room, when the former
noticed that an old woman came limping on crutches into the courtyard. Indeed, she was accustomed
to come every Sunday, and carry away a gift with her. 'Ah, there is the poor old lady,' said
the nobleman: 'walking is a great toil to her;' and before my mother understood what he meant,
he had gone out of the room and run down the stairs, to save the old woman the toilsome walk,
by carrying to her the gift she had come to receive.

"Now, that was only a small circumstance, but, like the widow's two mites in the Scripture,
it has a sound that finds an echo in the depths of the heart in human nature; and these are
the things the poet should show and point out; especially in these times should he sing of
it, for that does good, and pacifies and unites men. But where a bit of mortality, because
it has a genealogical tree and a coat of arms, rears up like an Arabian horse, and prances
in the street, and says in the room, 'People out of the street have been here,' when a commoner
has been--that is nobility in decay, and become a mere mask--a mask of the kind that Thespis
created; and people are glad when such an one is turned into satire."

This was the speech of the clergyman's son. It was certainly rather long, but then the flute
was being finished while he made it.

At the castle there was a great company. Many guests came from the neighbourhood and from the
capital. Many ladies, some tastefully, and others tastelessly dressed, were there, and the
great hall was quite full of people. The clergymen from the neighbourhood stood respectfully
congregated in a corner, which made it look almost as if there were to be a burial there. But
it was not so, for this was a party of pleasure, only that the pleasure had not yet begun.

A great concert was to be performed, and consequently the little baron had brought in his willow
flute; but he could not get a note out of it, nor could his papa, and therefore the flute was
worth nothing. There was instrumental music and song, both of the kind that delight the performers
most--quite charming!

"You are a performer?" said a cavalier--his father's son and nothing else--to the tutor. "You
play the flute and make it too--that's genius. That should command, and should have the place
of honour!"

"No indeed," replied the young man, "I only advance with the times, as every one is obliged to do."

"Oh, you will enchant us with the little instrument, will you not?" And with these words he
handed to the clergyman's son the flute cut from the willow tree by the pool, and announced
aloud that the tutor was about to perform a solo on that instrument.

Now, they only wanted to make fun of him, that was easily seen; and therefore the tutor would
not play, though indeed he could do so very well; but they crowded round him and importuned
him so strongly, that at last he took the flute and put it to his lips.

That was a wonderful flute! A sound, as sustained as that which is emitted by the whistle of
a steam engine, and much stronger, echoed far over courtyard, garden, and wood, miles away
into the country; and simultaneously with the tone came a rushing wind that roared, "Everything
in its right place!" And papa flew as if carried by the wind straight out of the hall and into
the shepherd's cot; and the shepherd flew, not into the hall, for there he could not come--no,
but into the room of the servants, among the smart lacqueys who strutted about there in silk
stockings; and the proud servants were struck motionless with horror at the thought that such
a personage dared to sit down to table with them.

But in the hall the young baroness flew up to the place of honour at the top of the table,
where she was worthy to sit; and the young clergyman's son had a seat next to her; and there
the two sat as if they were a newly-married pair. An old count of one of the most ancient families
in the country remained untouched in his place of honour; for the flute was just, as men ought
to be. The witty cavalier, the son of his father and nothing else, who had been the cause of
the flute-playing, flew head-over-heels into the poultry-house--but not alone. Two rich peasants
who in our times had grown too high for their corn-fields, were tumbled into the ditch. Everything
was in its usual order, only that the two old portraits of the dealer and the goose-girl hung
on the wall in the banqueting hall. They had been blown up yonder, and as one of the real connoisseurs
said they had been painted by a master's hand, they remained where they were, and were restored.
"Everything in its right place."

And to that it will come; for hereafter is long--longer than this story.

THE GOBLIN AND THE HUCKSTER.

There was once a regular student: he lived in a garret, and nothing at all belonged to him;
but there was also once a regular huckster: he lived on the ground floor, and the whole house
was his; and the goblin kept with him, for on the huckster's table on Christmas Eve there was
always a dish of plum porridge, with a great piece of butter floating in the middle. The huckster
could accomplish that; and consequently the goblin stuck to the huckster's shop, and that was
very interesting.

One evening the student came through the back door to buy candles and cheese for himself. He
had no one to send, and that's why he came himself. He procured what he wanted and paid for
it, and the huckster and his wife both nodded a "good evening" to him; and the woman was one
who could do more than merely nod--she had an immense power of tongue! You are a capital man,
a practical man, but you understand no more about poetry than does that cask yonder."

Now, that was an insulting speech, especially towards the cask; but the huckster laughed and
the student laughed, for it was only said in fun. But the goblin was angry that any one should
dare to say such things to a huckster who lived in his own house and sold the best butter.

When it was night, and the shop was closed and all were in bed, the goblin came forth, went
into the bedroom, and took away the good lady's tongue; for she did not want that while she
was asleep; and whenever he put this tongue upon any object in the room, the said object acquired
speech and language, and could express its thoughts and feelings as well as the lady herself
could have done; but only one object could use it at a time, and that was a good thing, otherwise
they would have interrupted each other.

And the goblin laid the tongue upon the cask in which the old newspapers were lying.

"Is it true," he asked, "that you don't know what poetry means?"

"Of course I know it," replied the cask: "poetry is something that always stands at the foot
of a column in the newspapers, and is sometimes cut out. I dare swear I have more of it in
me than the student, and I'm only a poor tub compared to the huckster."

Then the goblin put the tongue upon the coffee-mill, and, mercy! how it began to go! And he
put it upon the butter-cask, and on the cash-box: they were all of the waste-paper cask's opinion,
and the opinion of the majority must be respected.

"Now I shall tell it to the student!" And with these words the goblin went quite quietly up
the back stairs to the garret, where the student lived.

But how light it was in his room! Out of the book shot a clear beam, expanding into a thick
stem, and into a mighty tree, which grew upward and spread its branches far over the student.
Each leaf was fresh, and every blossom was a beautiful female head, some with dark sparkling
eyes, others with wonderfully clear blue orbs; every fruit was a gleaming star, and there was
a glorious sound of song in the student's room.

Never had the little goblin imagined such splendour, far less had he ever seen or heard anything
like it. He stood still on tiptoe, and peeped in till the light went out in the student's garret.
Probably the student blew it out, and went to bed; but the little goblin remained standing
there nevertheless, for the music still sounded on, soft and beautiful--a splendid cradle song
for the student who had lain down to rest. And then he went down again to the huckster's shop:
and it was a very good thing that he got down there again at last, for the cask had almost
worn out the good woman's tongue, for it had spoken out at one side everything that was contained
in it, and was just about turning itself over, to give it out from the other side also, when
the goblin came in, and restored the tongue to its owner. But from that time forth the whole
shop, from the cash-box down to the firewood, took its tone from the cask, and paid him such
respect, and thought so much of him, that when the huckster afterwards read the critical articles
on theatricals and art in the newspaper, they were all persuaded the information came from
the cask itself.

But the goblin could no longer sit quietly and contentedly listening to all the wisdom down
there: so soon as the light glimmered from the garret in the evening he felt as if the rays
were strong cables drawing him up, and he was obliged to go and peep through the keyhole; and
there a feeling of greatness rolled around him, such as we feel beside the ever-heaving sea
when the storm rushes over it, and he burst into tears! He did not know himself why he was
weeping, but a peculiar feeling of pleasure mingled with his tears. How wonderfully glorious
it must be to sit with the student under the same tree! But that might not be, he was obliged
to be content with the view through the keyhole, and to be glad of that. There he stood on
the cold landing-place, with the autumn wind blowing down from the loft-hole: it was cold,
very cold; but the little mannikin only felt that when the light in the room was extinguished,
and the tones in the tree died away. Ha! then he shivered, and crept down again to his warm
corner, where it was homely and comfortable.

And when Christmas came, and brought with it the porridge and the great lump of butter, why,
then he thought the huckster the better man.

But in the middle of the night the goblin was awaked by a terrible tumult and beating against
the window shutters. People rapped noisily without, and the watchman blew his horn, for a great
fire had broken out--the whole street was full of smoke and flame. Was it in the house itself,
or at a neighbour's? Where was it? Terror seized on all. The huckster's wife was so bewildered
that she took her gold earrings out of her ears and put them in her pocket, that at any rate
she might save something; the huckster ran for his share-papers; and the maid for her black
silk mantilla, for she had found means to purchase one. Each one wanted to save the best thing
they had; the goblin wanted to do the same thing, and in a few leaps he was up the stairs,
and into the room of the student, who stood quite quietly at the open window, looking at the
conflagration that was raging in the house of the neighbour opposite. The great treasure of
the house was saved; and now he ran up and away, quite on to the roof of the house, on to the
chimney. There he sat, illuminated by the flames of the burning house opposite, both hands
pressed tightly over his cap, in which the treasure lay; and now he knew the real feelings
of his heart, and knew to whom it really belonged. But when the fire was extinguished, and
the goblin could think calmly again, why, then....

"I must divide myself between the two," he said; "I can't quite give up the huckster, because
of the porridge!"

Now, that was spoken quite like a human creature. We all of us visit the huckster for the sake
of the porridge.

THE BOND OF FRIENDSHIP.

We have just taken a little journey, and already we want to take a longer one. Whither? To
Sparta, to Mycene, to Delphi? There are a hundred places at whose names the heart beats with
the desire of travel. On horseback we go up the mountain paths, through brake and through brier.
A single traveller makes an appearance like a whole caravan. He rides forward with his guide,
a pack-horse carries trunks, a tent, and provisions, and a few armed soldiers follow as a guard.
No inn with warm beds awaits him at the end of his tiring day's journey: the tent is often
his dwelling-place. In the great wild region the guide cooks him a pillan of rice, fowls, and
curry for his supper. A thousand gnats swarm round the tent. It is a boisterous night, and
to-morrow the way will lead across swollen streams; take care you are not washed away!

What is your reward for undergoing these hardships? The fullest, richest reward. Nature manifests
herself here in all her greatness; every spot is historical, and the eye and the thoughts are
alike delighted. The poet may sing it, the painter portray it in rich pictures; but the air
of reality which sinks deep into the soul of the spectator, and remains there, neither painter
nor poet can produce.

In many little sketches I have endeavoured to give an idea of a small part of Athens and its
environs; but how colourless the picture seems! How little does it exhibit Greece, the mourning
genius of beauty, whose greatness and whose sorrow the stranger never forgets!

The lonely herdsman yonder on the hills would, perhaps, by a simple recital of an event in
his life, better enlighten the stranger who wishes in a few features to behold the land of
the Hellenes, than any picture could do.

"Then," says my Muse, "let him speak." A custom, a good, peculiar custom, shall be the subject
of the mountain shepherd's tale. It is called

THE BOND OF FRIENDSHIP. The roof reached almost down to the ground. It was now dark brown and
ugly, but it had originally consisted of blooming olive and fresh laurel branches brought from
beyond the mountain. Around our dwelling was a narrow gorge, whose walls of rock rose steeply
upwards, and showed naked and black, and round their summits often hung clouds, like white
living figures. Never did I hear a singing bird there, never did the men there dance to the
sound of the bagpipe; but the spot was sacred from the old times: even its name reminded of
this, for it was called Delphi! The dark solemn mountains were all covered with snow; the highest,
which gleamed the longest in the red light of evening, was Parnassus; the brook which rolled
from it near our house was once sacred also. Now the ass sullies it with its feet, but the
stream rolls on and on, and becomes clear again. How I can remember every spot in the deep
holy solitude! In the midst of the hut a fire was kindled, and when the hot ashes lay there
red and glowing, the bread was baked in them.

And when my mother sang thus, her eyes became moist, and on the long eyelashes hung a tear;
but she hid it, and baked our black bread in the ashes. Then I would clench my fist and cry,
"We will kill the Turks!" but she repeated from the song the words, "I will drive them across
the islands into the deep sea. But before evening sank down the roebuck was slain, and before
the night came the stag was hunted and dead."

For several days and nights we had been lonely in our hut, when my father came home. I knew
he would bring me shells from the Gulf of Lepanto, or perhaps even a bright gleaming knife.
This time he brought us a child, a little half-naked girl, that he brought under his sheepskin
cloak. It was wrapped in a fur, and all that the little creature possessed when this was taken
off, and she lay in my mother's lap, were three silver coins, fastened in her dark hair. My
father told us that the Turks had killed the child's parents; and he told so much about them,
that I dreamed of the Turks all night. He himself had been wounded, and my mother bound up
his arm. The wound was deep, and the thick sheepskin was stiff with frozen blood. The little
maiden was to be my sister. They had sworn brotherhood in their youth, and chosen the most
beautiful and virtuous girl in the neighbourhood to consecrate their bond of friendship. I
often heard of the strange good custom.

So now the little girl was my sister. She sat in my lap, and I brought her flowers and the
feathers of the mountain birds: we drank together of the waters of Parnassus, and dwelt together
for many a year under the laurel roof of the hut, while my mother sang winter after winter
of the stag who wept red tears. But as yet I did not understand that it was my own countrymen
whose many sorrows were mirrored in those tears.

One day there came three Frankish men. Their dress was different from ours. They had tents
and beds with them on their horses, and more than twenty Turks, all armed with swords and muskets,
accompanied them; for they were friends of the pacha, and had letters from him commanding an
escort for them. They only came to see our mountains, to ascend Parnassus amid the snow and
the clouds, and to look at the strange black steep rock near our hut. I never thought of it;
but Anastasia and I were really one. She was always sitting in my lap or riding in the goatskin
at my back; and when I dreamed, she appeared in my dreams. They wrapped tobacco in strips of
paper and smoked it. I remember they were undecided as to the road they were to take.

But they had to make a choice. They went, and my father went with them. Soon afterwards we
heard the sound of firing. The noise was renewed, and soldiers rushed into our hut, and took
my mother, and myself, and my sister Anastasia prisoners. They declared that the robbers had
been entertained by us, and that my father had acted as the robbers' guide, and therefore we
must go with them. Presently I saw the corpses of the robbers brought in; I saw my father's
corpse too. I cried and cried till I fell asleep. When I awoke, we were in prison, but the
room was not worse than ours in our own house. They gave me onions to eat, and musty wine poured
from a tarry cask, but we had no better fare at home.

How long we were kept prisoners I do not know; but many days and nights went by. When we were
set free it was the time of the holy Easter feast. I carried Anastasia on my back, for my mother
was ill, and could only move slowly, and it was a long way till we came down to the sea, to
the Gulf of Lepanto. We went into a church that gleamed with pictures painted on a golden ground.
They were pictures of angels, and very beautiful; but it seemed to me that our little Anastasia
was just as beautiful. In the middle of the floor stood a coffin filled with roses. "The Lord
Christ is pictured there in the form of a beautiful rose," said my mother; and the priest announced,
"Christ is risen!" All the people kissed each other: each one had a burning taper in his hand,
and I received one myself, and so did little Anastasia. The mountain-top gleamed in the evening
rays like glowing iron, and it seemed as though the light came from within it; for long after
the sun had set, the mountain still shone through the clear blue air. They were the same stars,
and they stood exactly in the same positions above me, as when I had sat in front of our hut
at Delphi; and at last I almost fancied I was there. Suddenly there was a splash in the water,
and the boat rocked violently. I cried out in horror, for Anastasia had fallen into the water:
but in a moment Aphtanides had sprung in after her, and was holding her up to me! We dried
her clothes as well as we could, remaining on the water till they were dry; for no one was
to know what a fright we had had for our little adopted sister, in whose life Aphtanides now
had a part.

The summer came. The sun burned so hot that the leaves turned yellow on the trees. I thought
of our cool mountains, and of the fresh water they contained; my mother, too, longed for them;
and one evening we wandered home. What peace, what silence! Everything was quiet and deserted;
but a shooting star announced that in heaven there was yet life. I know not if the clear blue
air gleamed with light of its own, or if the radiance came from the stars; but we could see
the outlines of the mountains quite plainly.

We reached our old home; but the hut was a heap of ruins, and a new one had to be built. A
few women lent my mother their aid, and in a few days walls were raised, and covered with a
new roof of olive branches. My mother made many bottle cases of bark and skins; I kept the
little flock of the priests,[5] and Anastasia and the little tortoises were my playmates.

[Footnote 4: According to the Greek superstition, this is a monster generated from the unopened
entrails of slaughtered sheep, which are thrown away in the fields.]

[Footnote 5: A peasant who can read often becomes a priest; he is then called "very holy Sir,"
and the lower orders kiss the ground on which he has stepped.]

Once we had a visit from our beloved Aphtanides, who said he had greatly longed to see us,
and who stayed with us two whole happy days.

A month afterwards he came again, and told us that he was going in a ship to Corfu and Patras,
but must bid us good-bye first; and he had brought a large fish for our mother. She was now
a beautiful grown girl, and I had become a stout stripling. The wolf-skins that covered my
mother's and Anastasia's bed, I had myself taken from wolves that had fallen beneath my shots.

Years had gone by, when one evening Aphtanides came in, slender as a reed, strong and brown.
He kissed us all, and had much to tell of the fortifications of Malta, of the great ocean,
and of the marvellous sepulchres of Egypt. It sounded strange as a legend of the priests, and
I looked up to him with a kind of veneration.

"How much you know!" I exclaimed; "what wonders you can tell of!"

A couple of miles from our house there, where loose earth lies on the hill, and a few scattered
trees give a shelter, stood the little church; a silver lamp hung in front of the altar. Every
one could see that we were about to go through a solemn ceremony. We stepped into the little
simple church, where the evening sunlight, streaming through the door, gleamed on the burning
lamp and the pictures on golden ground. We knelt down on the altar steps, and Anastasia came
before us.

We all three prayed silently; and then she said to us, "Will you be friends in life and in
death?" "Yes," we replied. "Will you, whatever may happen, remember this--my brother is a part
of myself. When we rose, I saw my mother standing by the church door weeping heartily.

How cheerful it was now, in our little hut, and by the springs of Delphi! Every thought of
our souls lay clear before each of us, and I seized his hand. I may not deceive thee, nor will
I do so. I also love her; but to-morrow I depart. In a year we shall see each other once more,
and then you will be married, will you not? I have a little gold of my own: it shall be thine.
Thou must, thou shalt take it."

And we wandered home silently across the mountains. It was late in the evening when we stood
at my mother's door.

Anastasia held the lamp upwards as we entered; my mother was not there. She gazed at Aphtanides
with a beautifully mournful gaze. "To-morrow you are going from us," she said: "I am very sorry
for it."

"Sorry!" he repeated, and in his voice there seemed a trouble as great as the grief I myself felt.

SOMETHING.

"I want to be something!" said the eldest of five brothers. "I want to do something in the
world. I don't care how humble my position may be in society, if I only effect some good, for
that will really be something. I'll make bricks, for they are quite indispensable things, and
then I shall truly have done something."

"But that something will not be enough!" quoth the second brother. "What you intend doing is
just as much as nothing at all. It is journeyman's work, and can be done by a machine. No,
I would rather be a bricklayer at once, for that is something real; and that's what I will
be. That brings rank; as a bricklayer one belongs to a guild, and is a citizen, and has one's
own flag and one's own house of call. Yes, and if all goes well, I will keep journeymen. I
shall become a master bricklayer, and my wife will be a master's wife--that is what I call
something."

"That's nothing at all!" said the third. "That is beyond the pale of the guild, and there are
many of those in a town that stand far above the mere master artizan. You may be an honest
man; but as a 'master' you will after all only belong to those who are ranked among common
men. I know something better than that. I will be an architect, and will thus enter into the
territory of art and speculation. I shall be reckoned among those who stand high in point of
intellect. I shall certainly have to serve up from the pickaxe, so to speak; so I must begin
as a carpenter's apprentice, and must go about as an assistant, in a cap, though I am accustomed
to wear a silk hat. I shall have to fetch beer and spirits for the common journeymen, and they
will call me 'thou,' and that is insulting! But I shall imagine to myself that the whole thing
is only acting, and a kind of masquerade. To-morrow--that is to say, when I have served my
time--I shall go my own way, and the others will be nothing to me. I shall go to the academy,
and get instructions in drawing, and shall be called an architect. That's something! I may
get to be called 'sir,' and even 'worshipful sir,' or even get a handle at the front or at
the back of my name, and shall go on building and building, just as those before me have built.
That will always be a thing to remember, and that's what I call something!"

"But I don't care at all for that something," said the fourth. "I won't sail in the wake of
others, and be a copyist. I will be a genius; and will stand up greater than all the rest of
you together. I shall be the creator of a new style, and will give the plan of a building suitable
to the climate and the material of the country, for the nationality of the people, for the
development of the age--and an additional storey for my own genius."

"But supposing the climate and the material are bad," said the fifth, "that would be a disastrous
circumstance, for these two exert a great influence! Nationality, moreover, may expand itself
until it becomes affectation, and the development of the century may run wild with your work,
as youth often runs wild. I quite realise the fact that none of you will be anything real,
however much you may believe in yourselves. But, do what you like, I will not resemble you:
I shall keep on the outside of things, and criticise whatever you produce. To every work there
is attached something that is not right--something that has gone wrong; and I will ferret that
out and find fault with it; and that will be doing something!"

And he kept his word; and everybody said concerning this fifth brother, "There is certainly
something in him; he has a good head; but he does nothing." And by that very means they thought
something of him!

Now, you see, this is only a little story; but it will never end so long as the world lasts.

But what became of the five brothers? Why, this is nothing, and not something.

Listen, it is a capital story.

The eldest brother, he who manufactured bricks, soon became aware of the fact that every brick,
however small it might be, produced for him a little coin, though this coin was only copper;
and many copper pennies laid one upon the other can be changed into a shining dollar; and wherever
one knocks with such a dollar in one's hand, whether at the baker's, or the butcher's, or the
tailor's--wherever it may be, the door flies open, and the visitor is welcomed, and gets what
he wants. You see that is what comes of bricks. Some of those belonging to the eldest brother
certainly crumbled away, or broke in two, but there was a use even for these.

On the high rampart, the wall that kept out the sea, Margaret, the poor woman, wished to build
herself a little house. All the faulty bricks were given to her, and a few perfect ones into
the bargain, for the eldest brother was a good-natured man, though he certainly did not achieve
anything beyond the manufacture of bricks. The poor woman put together the house for herself.
It was little and narrow, and the single window was quite crooked. The door was too low, and
the thatched roof might have shown better workmanship. But after all it was a shelter; and
from the little house you could look far across the sea, whose waves broke vainly against the
protecting rampart on which it was built. The salt billows spurted their spray over the whole
house, which was still standing when he who had given the bricks for its erection had long
been dead and buried.

The second brother knew better how to build a wall, for he had served an apprenticeship to
it. When he had served his time and passed his examination he packed his knapsack and sang
the journeyman's song:

    "While I am young I'll wander, from place to place I'll roam,
    And everywhere build houses, until I come back home;
    And youth will give me courage, and my true love won't forget:
    Hurrah then for a workman's life! I'll be a master yet!"

And he carried his idea into effect. When he had come home and become a master, he built one
house after another in the town. He built a whole street; and when the street was finished
and became an ornament to the place, the houses built a house for him in return, that was to
be his own. But how can houses build a house? If you ask them they will not answer you, but
people will understand what is meant by the expression, and say, 'certainly, it was the street
that built his house for him.' It was little, and the floor was covered with clay; but when
he danced with his bride upon this clay floor, it seemed to become polished oak; and from every
stone in the wall sprang forth a flower, and the room was gay, as if with the costliest paper-hanger's
work. It was a pretty house, and in it lived a happy pair. The flag of the guild fluttered
before the house, and the journeymen and apprentices shouted hurrah! Yes, he certainly was
something! Yes, if the houses of the street had built a house for the brother who had become
a bricklayer, the street now received its name from the architect, and the handsomest house
in it became his property. That was something, and he was something; and he had a long title
before and after his name. His children were called genteel children, and when he died his
widow was "a widow of rank," and that is something!--and his name always remained at the corner
of the street, and lived on in the mouth of every one as the street's name--and that was something!

Now came the genius of the family, the fourth brother, who wanted to invent something new and
original, and an additional storey on the top of it for himself. But the top storey tumbled
down, and he came tumbling down with it, and broke his neck. Nevertheless he had a splendid
funeral, with guild flags and music; poems in the papers, and flowers strewn on the paving-stones
in the street; and three funeral orations were held over him, each one longer than the last,
which would have rejoiced him greatly, for he always liked it when people talked about him;
a monument also was erected over his grave. It was only one storey high, but still it was something.

Now he was dead like the three other brothers; but the last, the one who was a critic, outlived
them all: and that was quite right, for by this means he got the last word, and it was of great
importance to him to have the last word. The people always said he had a good head of his own.
At last his hour came, and he died, and came to the gates of Paradise. There souls always enter
two and two, and he came up with another soul that wanted to get into Paradise too; and who
should this be but old dame Margaret from the house upon the sea wall. "Do you want to get
in here too?"

And the old woman curtsied as well as she could: she thought it must be St. Peter himself talking
to her.

"I'm a poor old woman of a very humble family," she replied. "I'm old Margaret that lived in
the house on the sea wall."

"Well, and what have you done? what have you accomplished down there?"

"I have really accomplished nothing at all in the world: nothing that I can plead to have the
doors here opened to me. It would be a real mercy to allow me to slip in through the gate."

"In what manner did you leave the world?" asked he, just for the sake of saying something;
for it was wearisome work standing there and saying nothing.

"Why, I really don't know how I left it. I was sick and miserable during my last years, and
could not well bear creeping out of bed, and going out suddenly into the frost and cold. It
was a hard winter, but I have got out of it all now. For a few days the weather was quite calm,
but very cold, as your honour must very well know. The sea was covered with ice as far as one
could look. All the people from the town walked out upon the ice, and I think they said there
was a dance there, and skating. There was beautiful music and a great feast there too; the
sound came into my poor little room, where I lay ill. And it was towards the evening; the moon
had risen beautifully, but was not yet in its full splendour; I looked from my bed out over
the wide sea, and far off, just where the sea and sky join, a strange white cloud came up.
Twice in my life I have seen the same thing; and I knew there would be an awful tempest, and
a spring flood, which would overwhelm the poor people who were now drinking and dancing and
rejoicing--young and old, the whole city had issued forth--who was to warn them, if no one
saw what was coming yonder, or knew, as I did, what it meant? I was dreadfully alarmed, and
felt more lively than I had done for a long time. I crept out of bed, and got to the window,
but could not crawl farther, I was so exhausted. I heard the boys shouting 'hurrah!' and the
servant men and maids singing. There were all kinds of merriment going on. But the white cloud
with the black spot! I cried out as loud as I could, but no one heard me; I was too far from
the people. Soon the storm would burst, and the ice would break, and all who were upon it would
be lost without remedy. They could not hear me, and I could not come out to them. Oh, if I
could only bring them ashore! Then kind Heaven inspired me with the thought of setting fire
to my bed, and rather to let the house burn down, than that all those people should perish
so miserably. I succeeded in lighting up a beacon for them. Not one remained behind. I heard
them coming; but I also became aware of a rushing sound in the air; I heard a rumbling like
the sound of heavy artillery; the spring-flood was lifting the covering of ice, which presently
cracked and burst into a thousand fragments. But the people succeeded in reaching the sea-wall--I
saved them all! But I fancy I could not bear the cold and the fright, and so I came up here
to the gates of Paradise. I am told they are opened to poor creatures like me--and now I have
no house left down upon the rampart: not that I think this will give me admission here."

Then the gates of heaven were opened, and the angel led the old woman in. She left a straw
behind her, a straw that had been in her bed when she set it on fire to save the lives of many;
and this straw had been changed into the purest gold--into gold that grew and grew, and spread
out into beauteous leaves and flowers.

"Look, this is what the poor woman brought," said the angel to the critic. "What dost thou
bring? I know that thou hast accomplished nothing--thou hast not made so much as a single brick.
Ah, if thou couldst only return, and effect at least so much as that! Probably the brick, when
thou hadst made it, would not be worth much; but if it were made with good-will, it would at
least be something. But thou canst not go back, and I can do nothing for thee!"

Then the poor soul, the old dame who had lived on the dyke, put in a petition for him. She said,

"His brother gave me the bricks and the pieces out of which I built up my house, and that was
a great deal for a poor woman like me. Could not all those bricks and pieces be counted as
a single brick in his favour? It was an act of mercy. He wants it now; and is not this the
very fountain of mercy?"

Then the angel said:

"Thy brother, him whom thou hast regarded as the least among you all, he whose honest industry
seemed to thee as the most humble, hath given thee this heavenly gift. Thou shalt not be turned
away. It shall be vouchsafed to thee to stand here without the gate, and to reflect, and repent
of thy life down yonder; but thou shalt not be admitted until thou hast in real earnest accomplished
something."

"I could have said that in better words!" thought the critic, but he did not find fault aloud;
and for him, after all, that was "SOMETHING!"

UNDER THE WILLOW TREE.

The region round the little town of Kjöge is very bleak and bare. The town certainly lies by
the sea shore, which is always beautiful, but just there it might be more beautiful than it
is: all around are flat fields, and it is a long way to the forest. But when one is very much
at home in a place, one always finds something beautiful, and something that one longs for
in the most charming spot in the world that is strange to us. We confess that, by the utmost
boundary of the little town, where some humble gardens skirt the streamlet that falls into
the sea, it must be very pretty in summer; and this was the opinion of the two children from
neighbouring houses, who were playing there, and forcing their way through the gooseberry bushes,
to get to one another. And, moreover, they were very careful with respect to the water; in
fact, the boy was so much afraid of it, that they could not lure him into the sea in summer,
when the other children were splashing about in the waves. Accordingly, he was famously jeered
and mocked at, and had to bear the jeering and mockery as best he could. But once Joanna, the
neighbour's little girl, dreamed she was sailing in a boat, and Knud waded out to join her
till the water rose, first to his neck, and afterwards closed over his head, so that he disappeared
altogether. From the time when little Knud heard of this dream, he would no longer bear the
teasing of the other boys. He might go into the water now, he said, for Joanna had dreamed
it. He certainly never carried the idea into practice, but the dream was his great guide for
all that.

Their parents, who were poor people, often took tea together, and Knud and Joanna played in
the gardens and on the high-road, where a row of willows had been planted beside the skirting
ditch; these trees, with their polled tops, certainly did not look beautiful, but they were
not put there for ornament, but for use. There was great crowding, and generally the weather
was rainy; but it did not destroy the fragrance of the honey-cakes and the gingerbread, of
which there was a booth quite full; and the best of it was, that the man who kept this booth
came every year to lodge during the fair-time in the dwelling of little Knud's father. Consequently
there came a present of a bit of gingerbread every now and then, and of course Joanna received
her share of the gift.

"On the shop-board," he said, "lay two gingerbread cakes, one in the shape of a man with a
hat, the other of a maiden without a bonnet; both their faces were on the side that was uppermost,
for they were to be looked at on that side, and not on the other; and, indeed, most people
have a favourable side from which they should be viewed. On the left side the man wore a bitter
almond--that was his heart; but the maiden, on the other hand, was honey-cake all over. They
were placed as samples on the shop-board, and remaining there a long time, at last they fell
in love with one another, but neither told the other, as they should have done if they had
expected anything to come of it.

"'He is a man, and therefore he must speak first,' she thought; but she felt quite contented,
for she knew her love was returned.

"His thoughts were far more extravagant, as is always the case with a man. He dreamed that
he was a real street boy, that he had four pennies of his own, and that he purchased the maiden,
and ate her up. So they lay on the shop-board for weeks and weeks, and grew dry and hard, but
the thoughts of the maiden became ever more gentle and maidenly.

"'It is enough for me that I have lived on the same table with him,' she said, and crack! she
broke in two.

"'If she had only known of my love, she would have kept together a little longer,' he thought.

"And that is the story, and here they are, both of them," said the baker in conclusion. "They
are remarkable for their curious history, and for their silent love, which never came to anything.
And there they are for you!" and, so saying, he gave Joanna the man who was yet entire, and
Knud got the broken maiden; but the children had been so much impressed by the story that they
could not summon courage to eat the lovers up.

On the following day they went out with them to the churchyard, and sat down by the church
wall, which is covered, winter and summer, with the most luxuriant ivy as with a rich carpet.
Here they stood the two cake figures up in the sunshine among the green leaves, and told the
story to a group of other children; they told them of the silent love which led to nothing.
It was called love because the story was so lovely, on that they all agreed. But when they
turned to look again at the gingerbread pair, a big boy, out of mischief, had eaten up the
broken maiden. The children cried about this, and afterwards--probably that the poor lover
might not be left in the world lonely and desolate--they ate him up too; but they never forgot
the story.

The children were always together by the elder tree and under the willow, and the little girl
sang the most beautiful songs with a voice that was clear as a bell. Knud, on the other hand,
had not a note of music in him, but he knew the words of the songs, and that, at least, was
something. The people of Kjöge, even to the rich wife of the fancy-shop keeper, stood still
and listened when Joanna sang. "She has a very sweet voice, that little girl," they said.

Those were glorious days, but they could not last for ever. The neighbours were neighbours
no longer. The little maiden's mother was dead, and the father intended to marry again, in
the capital, where he had been promised a living as a messenger, which was to be a very lucrative
office.

Ah, how often his thoughts were with Joanna! Did she think of him? Yes. Towards Christmas there
came a letter from her father to the parents of Knud, to say that they were getting on very
well in Copenhagen, and especially might Joanna look forward to a brilliant future on the strength
of her fine voice.

The whole family wept: and yet all this was very pleasant; those were joyful tears that they shed.

And now he was a journeyman, and his knapsack was packed ready for his journey: at length,
for the first time in his life, he was to go to Copenhagen, where a master was already waiting
for him. How glad Joanna would be! She was now seventeen years old, and he nineteen. The leaves
were falling down from the trees, and he arrived at his new master's in the metropolis wet
to the skin. Next Sunday he was to pay a visit to Joanna's father. The new journeyman's clothes
were brought forth, and the new hat from Kjöge was put on, which became Knud very well, for
till this time he had only worn a cap. And he found the house he sought, and mounted flight
after flight of stairs until he became almost giddy. It was terrible to him to see how people
lived piled up one over the other in the dreadful city. She is a girl who rejoices my heart,
and, please God, she will rejoice it yet more. She has her own room now, and pays us rent for
it." And the father knocked quite politely at the door, as if he were a visitor, and then they
went in.

But how pretty everything was in that room! such an apartment was certainly not to be found
in all Kjöge: the queen herself could not be more charmingly lodged. There were carpets, there
were window curtains quite down to the floor, and around were flowers and pictures, and a mirror
into which there was almost danger that a visitor might step, for it was as large as a door;
and there was even a velvet chair.

Knud saw all this at a glance: and yet he saw nothing but Joanna. She was a grown maiden, quite
different from what Knud had fancied her, and much more beautiful. In all Kjöge there was not
a girl like her. How graceful she was, and with what an odd unfamiliar glance she looked at
Knud! But that was only for a moment, and then she rushed towards him as if she would have
kissed him. She did not really do so, but she came very near it. Yes, she was certainly rejoiced
at the arrival of the friend of her youth! No, she had not grown proud at all. And it was through
her--he noticed it well--that her parents invited him to stay the whole evening with them;
and she poured out the tea and gave him a cup with her own hands; and afterwards she took a
book and read aloud to them, and it seemed to Knud that what she read was all about himself
and his love, for it matched so well with his thoughts; and then she sang a simple song, but
through her singing it became like a history, and seemed to be the outpouring of her very heart.
Yes, certainly she was fond of Knud. The tears coursed down his cheeks--he could not restrain
them, nor could he speak a single word: he seemed to himself as if he were struck dumb; and
yet she pressed his hand, and said,

"You have a good heart, Knud--remain always as you are now." Don't let the whole winter go
by without once coming to see us again;" and therefore he could very well go again the next
Sunday, and resolved to do so. But every evening when working hours were over--and they worked
by candlelight there--Knud went out through the town: he went into the street in which Joanna
lived, and looked up at her window; it was almost always lit up, and one evening he could see
the shadow of her face quite plainly on the curtain--and that was a grand evening for him.
His master's wife did not like his gallivanting abroad every evening, as she expressed it;
and she shook her head; but the master only smiled.

"He is only a young fellow," he said. Nothing comes of silent love: I have learned that from
the cakes." And what did he see? He saw Joanna, and how charming and how beautiful she looked!
She was certainly married to a stranger, but that was all in the play--something that was only
make-believe, as Knud knew very well. If it had been real, he thought, she would never have
had the heart to send him a ticket that he might go and see it. And all the people shouted
and applauded, and Knud cried out "hurrah!"

Even the king smiled at Joanna, and seemed to delight in her.

So soon as Sunday came, he went again. He felt as if he were going into a church. Joanna was
alone, and received him--it could not have happened more fortunately. "It is well that you
are come," she said.

"I had an idea of sending my father to you, only I felt a presentiment that you would be here
this evening; for I must tell you that I start for France on Friday: I must go there, if I
am to become efficient."

It seemed to Knud as if the whole room were whirling round and round with him. "Heaven gives
us strength for much," she said, "if we only endeavour to do our best."

At that moment the stepmother came into the room; and Joanna said quickly,

"Knud is quite inconsolable because I am going away. Come, be a man," she continued, and laid
her hand upon his shoulder; and it seemed as if they had been talking of the journey, and nothing
else. "You are a child," she added; "but now you must be good and reasonable, as you used to
be under the willow tree, when we were both children." And then they parted.

And they went with him to the dancing-rooms. He saw many handsome girls there, but certainly
not one like Joanna; and here, where he thought to forget her, she stood more vividly than
ever before the eyes of his soul. He ran through the streets, and passed by the house where
she had dwelt: it was dark there, dark everywhere, and empty, and lonely. The world went on
its course, but Knud pursued his lonely way, unheedingly.

The winter came, and the streams were frozen. Everything seemed to be preparing for a burial.
But when spring returned, and the first steamer was to start, a longing seized him to go away,
far, far into the world, but not to France. So he packed his knapsack, and wandered far into
the German land, from city to city, without rest or peace; and it was not till he came to the
glorious old city of Nuremberg that he could master his restless spirit; and in Nuremberg,
therefore, he decided to remain.

Nuremberg is a wonderful old city, and looks as if it were cut out of an old picture-book.
The streets seem to stretch themselves along just as they please. The houses do not like standing
in regular ranks. Gables with little towers, arabesques, and pillars, start out over the pathway,
and from the strange peaked roofs water-spouts, formed like dragons or great slim dogs, extend
far over the street.

Here in the market-place stood Knud, with his knapsack on his back.

From the neighbouring church the strains of the organ were sounding: they seemed to him as
familiar as the tones of the organ at home at Kjöge; and he went into the great cathedral.
The sunlight streamed in through the stained glass windows, between the two lofty slender pillars.
His spirit became prayerful, and peace returned to his soul. The ropemaker twists his ropes
on a gallery or walk built of wood, inside the town wall, where elder bushes grow out of the
clefts and cracks, spreading their green twigs over the little low houses that stand below;
and in one of these dwelt the master with whom Knud worked; and over the little garret window
at which Knud sat the elder waved its branches.

Here he lived through a summer and a winter; but when the spring came again he could bear it
no longer. The elder was in blossom, and its fragrance reminded him so of home, that he fancied
himself back in the garden at Kjöge; and therefore Knud went away from his master, and dwelt
with another, farther in the town, over whose house no elder bush grew.

His workshop was quite close to one of the old stone bridges, by a low water-mill, that rushed
and foamed always. Without, rolled the roaring stream, hemmed in by houses, whose old decayed
gables looked ready to topple down into the water.

Yes, he had certainly gone from the "Elder-mother" to the "Willow-father." The tree here had
something, especially on moonlight evenings, that went straight to his heart--and that something
was not in the moonlight, but in the old tree itself.

Nevertheless, he could not remain. Why not? Ask the willow tree, ask the blooming elder! And
therefore he bade farewell to his master in Nuremberg, and journeyed onward.

To no one did he speak of Joanna--in his secret heart he hid his sorrow; and he thought of
the deep meaning in the old childish story of the two cakes. Now he understood why the man
had a bitter almond in his breast--he himself felt the bitterness of it; and Joanna, who was
always so gentle and kind, was typified by the honey-cake. The strap of his knapsack seemed
so tight across his chest that he could scarcely breathe; he loosened it, but was not relieved.
He saw but half the world around him; the other half he carried about him, and within himself.
And thus it stood with him.

Not till he came in sight of the high mountains did the world appear freer to him; and now
his thoughts were turned without, and tears came into his eyes.

The Alps appeared to him as the folded wings of the earth; how if they were to unfold themselves,
and display their variegated pictures of black woods, foaming waters, clouds, and masses of
snow? At the last day, he thought, the world will lift up its great wings, and mount upwards
towards the sky, and burst like a soap-bubble in the glance of the Highest!

"Ah," sighed he, "that the Last Day were come!"

Silently he wandered through the land, that seemed to him as an orchard covered with soft turf.
From the wooden balconies of the houses the girls who sat busy with their lace-making nodded
at him; the summits of the mountains glowed in the red sun of the evening; and when he saw
the green lakes gleaming among the dark trees, he thought of the coast by the Bay of Kjöge,
and there was a longing in his bosom, but it was pain no more.

There where the Rhine rolls onward like a great billow, and bursts, and is changed into snow-white,
gleaming, cloud-like masses, as if clouds were being created there, with the rainbow fluttering
like a loose band above them; there he thought of the water-mill at Kjöge, with its rushing,
foaming water.

Gladly would he have remained in the quiet Rhenish town, but here too were too many elder trees
and willows, and therefore he journeyed on, over the high, mighty mountains, through shattered
walls of rock, and on roads that clung like swallows' nests to the mountain-side. The mountains
were a wall between him and all his recollections; and he wished it to be so.

Before him lay a great glorious city which they called Milano, and here he found a German master
who gave him work. They were an old pious couple, in whose workshop he now laboured. And the
two old people became quite fond of the quiet journeyman, who said little, but worked all the
more, and led a pious Christian life. To himself also it seemed as if Heaven had lifted the
heavy burden from his heart.

His favourite pastime was to mount now and then upon the mighty marble church, which seemed
to him to have been formed of the snow of his native land, fashioned into roofs, and pinnacles,
and decorated open halls: from every corner and every point the white statues smiled upon him.
Above him was the blue sky, below him the city and the wide-spreading Lombard plains, and towards
the north the high mountains clad with perpetual snow; and he thought of the church at Kjöge,
with its red, ivy-covered walls, but he did not long to go thither: here, beyond the mountains,
he would be buried.

He had dwelt here a year, and three years had passed away since he left his home, when one
day his master took him into the city, not to the circus where riders exhibited, but to the
opera, where was a hall worth seeing. There were seven storeys, from each of which beautiful
silken curtains hung down, and from the ground to the dizzy height of the roof sat elegant
ladies, with bouquets of flowers in their hands, as if they were at a ball, and the gentlemen
were in full dress, and many of them decorated with gold and silver. It was as bright there
as in the brilliant sunshine, and the music rolled gloriously through the building. Everything
was much more splendid than in the theatre at Copenhagen, but then Joanna had been there, and----could
it be? Yes, it was like magic--she was here also! for the curtain rose, and Joanna appeared,
dressed in silk and gold, with a crown upon her head: she sang as he thought none but angels
could sing, and came far forward, quite to the front of the stage, and smiled as only Joanna
could smile, and looked straight down at Knud. Poor Knud seized his master's hand, and called
out aloud, "Joanna!" but no one heard but the master, who nodded his head, for the loud music
sounded above everything. "Yes, yes, her name is Joanna," said the master; and he drew forth
a printed playbill, and showed Knud her name--for the full name was printed there.

No, it was not a dream! All the people applauded, and threw wreaths and flowers to her, and
every time she went away they called her back, so that she was always going and coming.

In the street the people crowded round her carriage, and drew it away in triumph. Knud looked
straight into her face, and she looked into his, but she did not know him. A man, with a star
glittering on his breast, gave her his arm--and it was whispered about that the two were engaged.

Then Knud went home and packed his knapsack. He was determined to go back to his own home,
to the elder and the willow tree--ah, under the willow tree! A whole life is sometimes lived
through in a single hour.

The old couple begged him to remain, but no words could induce him to stay. It was in vain
they told him that winter was coming, and pointed out that snow had already fallen in the mountains;
he said he could march on, with his knapsack on his back, in the wake of the slow-moving carriage,
for which they would have to clear a path.

So he went away towards the mountains, and marched up them and down them. His strength was
giving way, but still he saw no village, no house; he marched on towards the north. The stars
gleamed above him, his feet stumbled, and his head grew dizzy. Deep in the valley stars were
shining too, and it seemed as if there were another sky below him. He felt he was ill. The
stars below him became more and more numerous, and glowed brighter and brighter, and moved
to and fro. It was a little town whose lights beamed there; and when he understood that, he
exerted the remains of his strength, and at last reached the shelter of a humble inn.

That night and the whole of the following day he remained there, for his body required rest
and refreshment. It was thawing; there was rain in the valley. But early on the second morning
came a man with an organ, who played a tune of home; and now Knud could stay no longer. He
continued his journey towards the north, marching onward for many days with haste and hurry,
as if he were trying to get home before all were dead there; but to no one did he speak of
his longing, for no one would have believed in the sorrow of his heart, the deepest a human
heart can feel. Such a grief is not for the world, for it is not amusing; nor is it even for
friends; and moreover he had no friends--a stranger, he wandered through strange lands towards
his home in the north.

It was evening. He was walking on the public high-road. The frost began to make itself felt,
and the country soon became flatter, containing mere field and meadow. By the road-side grew
a great willow tree. Everything reminded him of home, and he sat down under the tree: he felt
very tired, his head began to nod, and his eyes closed in slumber, but still he was conscious
that the tree stretched its arms above him; and in his wandering fancy the tree itself appeared
to be an old, mighty man--it seemed as if the "Willow-father" himself had taken up his tired
son in his arms, and were carrying him back into the land of home, to the bare bleak shore
of Kjöge, to the garden of his childhood. Yes, he dreamed it was the willow tree of Kjöge that
had travelled out into the world to seek him, and that now had found him, and had led him back
into the little garden by the streamlet, and there stood Joanna, in all her splendour, with
the golden crown on her head, as he had seen her last, and she called out "welcome" to him.

And before him stood two remarkable shapes, which looked much more human than he remembered
them to have been in his childhood: they had changed also, but they were still the two cakes
that turned the right side towards him, and looked very well.

"We thank you," they said to Knud. "You have loosened our tongues, and have taught us that
thoughts should be spoken out freely, or nothing will come of them; and now something has indeed
come of it--we are betrothed."

Then they went hand in hand through the streets of Kjöge, and they looked very respectable
in every way: there was no fault to find with them. And they went on, straight towards the
church, and Knud and Joanna followed them; they also were walking hand in hand; and the church
stood there as it had always stood, with its red walls, on which the green ivy grew; and the
great door of the church flew open, and the organ sounded, and they walked up the long aisle
of the church. The villagers came forth to go to church, and by the road-side sat a journeyman.
He was dead--frozen to death under the willow tree!

THE BEETLE.

The emperor's favourite horse was shod with gold. It had a golden shoe on each of its feet.

And why was this?

And a beetle came creeping forth.

"First the great ones," said he, "and then the little ones; but greatness is not the only thing
that does it." And so saying, he stretched out his thin legs.

"And pray what do you want?" asked the smith.

"Golden shoes, to be sure," replied the beetle.

"Why, you must be out of your senses," cried the smith. "Do you want to have golden shoes too?"

"Golden shoes? certainly," replied the beetle. "Am I not just as good as that big creature
yonder, that is waited on, and brushed, and has meat and drink put before him? Don't I belong
to the imperial stable?"

"But why is the horse to have golden shoes? Don't you understand that?" asked the smith.

"Understand? I understand that it is a personal slight offered to myself," cried the beetle.
"It is done to annoy me, and therefore I am going into the world to seek my fortune."

"Go along!" said the smith.

"You're a rude fellow!" cried the beetle; and then he went out of the stable, flew a little
way, and soon afterwards found himself in a beautiful flower garden, all fragrant with roses
and lavender.

"Is it not beautiful here?" asked one of the little lady-birds that flew about, with their
delicate wings and their red-and-black shields on their backs. And when I go to sleep, and
die, as they call it, I shall wake up as a butterfly, with beautiful wings to fly with."

"How conceited you are!" exclaimed the stag-beetle. "Fly about as a butterfly, indeed! I've
come out of the stable of the emperor, and no one there, not even the emperor's favourite horse--that
by the way wears my cast-off golden shoes--has any such idea. To have wings to fly! why, we
can fly now;" and he spread his wings and flew away. "I don't want to be annoyed, and yet I
am annoyed," he said, as he flew off.

Soon afterwards he fell down upon a great lawn. He was tumbled over and over; sometimes he
was swimming on his stomach, sometimes on his back, and as for flying, that was out of the
question; he doubted whether he should escape from the place with his life. He therefore remained
lying where he was.

When the weather had moderated a little, and the beetle had rubbed the water out of his eyes,
he saw something gleaming. It was linen that had been placed there to bleach. He managed to
make his way up to it, and crept into a fold of the damp linen.

On the linen two frogs were sitting. Their bright eyes absolutely gleamed with pleasure.

"Wonderful weather this!" one of them cried. "How refreshing! What delicious dampness! It is
really as if one were lying in a wet ditch. Whoever does not rejoice in this, certainly does
not love his fatherland."

"Have you been in the emperor's stable?" asked the beetle: "there the dampness is warm and
refreshing. That's the climate for me; but I cannot take it with me on my journey. Is there
never a muck-heap, here in the garden, where a person of rank, like myself, can feel himself
at home, and take up his quarters?"

But the frogs either did not or would not understand him.

"I never ask a question twice!" said the beetle, after he had already asked this one three
times without receiving any answer.

Then he went a little farther, and stumbled against a fragment of pottery, that certainly ought
not to have been lying there; but as it was once there, it gave a good shelter against wind
and weather. Here dwelt several families of earwigs; and these did not require much, only sociality.
The female members of the community were full of the purest maternal affection, and accordingly
each one considered her own child the most beautiful and cleverest of all.

"Our son has engaged himself," said one mother. "Dear, innocent boy! His greatest hope is that
he may creep one day into a clergyman's ear. It's very artless and loveable, that; and being
engaged will keep him steady. What joy for a mother!"

"Our son," said another mother, "had scarcely crept out of the egg, when he was already off
on his travels. He's all life and spirits; he'll run his horns off!

"Certainly," replied the beetle. It is really quite refreshing to be among one's companions
once more."

"Perhaps you come from some muck-heap?" observed the oldest of them. But of course your intentions
are serious, and therefore I give you my blessing."

"Hurrah!" cried all the other beetles together; and our friend was engaged.

"I have allowed myself to be taken in," said our beetle to himself. "And now there's nothing
for it but to take them in, in turn."

So said, so done. Away he went, and he stayed away all day, and stayed away all night; and
his wife sat there, a forsaken widow.

"Oh," said the other beetles, "this fellow whom we received into our family is nothing more
than a thorough vagabond. He has gone away, and has left his wife a burden upon our hands."

"Well, then, she shall be unmarried again, and sit here among my daughters," said the mother.
"Fie on the villain who forsook her!"

In the meantime the beetle had been journeying on, and had sailed across the ditch on a cabbage
leaf. In the morning two persons came to the ditch. Then he translated the beetle's name into
Latin, and enlarged upon the creature's nature and history. The second person, an older scholar,
voted for carrying him home. He said they wanted just such good specimens; and this seemed
an uncivil speech to our beetle, and in consequence he flew suddenly out of the speaker's hand.

Soon after he went to sleep, and dreamed that the emperor's favourite horse had fallen, and
had given him his golden shoes, with the promise that he should have two more.

That was all very charming. When the beetle woke up, he crept forth and looked around him.
What splendour was in the hothouse! In the background great palm trees growing up on high;
the sun made them look transparent; and beneath them what a luxuriance of green, and of beaming
flowers, red as fire, yellow as amber, or white as fresh-fallen snow. He cribbled and crabbled
about there with all his might; but he got a good pressing from the boy's hand for this, which
served as a hint to him to keep quiet. Now he was a sailor, and had to sail away. But at length,
just as it went merrily out again, the two boys were called away, and very harshly, so that
they hurried to obey the summons, ran away from the lake, and left the little ship to its fate.
"I'll rest here, and sun myself.

"Well, now I know the world," said the beetle to himself. "It is an abominable world. I'm the
only honest person in it. First, they refuse me my golden shoes; then I have to lie on wet
linen, and to stand in the draught; and, to crown all, they fasten a wife upon me. That is
what annoys me more than all. Now the stable has lost me, and the world has lost me. It is
all over!"

But all was not over yet.

"Creep, creep--fly, fly--if thou canst," she said. "Liberty is a splendid thing."

And the beetle flew up, and straight through the open window of a great building; there he
sank down, tired and exhausted, exactly on the mane of the emperor's favourite horse, who stood
in the stable when he was at home, and the beetle also. The beetle clung fast to the mane,
and sat there a short time to recover himself.

"Here I'm sitting on the emperor's favourite horse--sitting on him just like the emperor himself!"
he cried. "But what was I saying? Yes, now I remember. That's a good thought, and quite correct.
The smith asked me why the golden shoes were given to the horse. Now I'm quite clear about
the answer. They were given to the horse on my account."

And now the beetle was in a good temper again.

"Travelling expands the mind rarely," said he.

"The world is not so bad, upon the whole," said the beetle; "but one must know how to take
things as they come."

By this time he was very near the town.

THE WIND TELLS ABOUT WALDEMAR DAA AND HIS DAUGHTERS.

When the wind sweeps across the grass, the field has a ripple like a pond, and when it sweeps
across the corn the field waves to and fro like a high sea. That is called the wind's dance;
but the wind does not dance only, he also tells stories; and how loudly he can sing out of
his deep chest, and how different it sounds in the tree-tops in the forest, and through the
loopholes and clefts and cracks in walls! Do you see how the wind drives the clouds up yonder,
like a frightened flock of sheep? Do you hear how the wind howls down here through the open
valley, like a watchman blowing his horn? With wonderful tones he whistles and screams down
the chimney and into the fireplace. The fire crackles and flares up, and shines far into the
room, and the little place is warm and snug, and it is pleasant to sit there listening to the
sounds. Let the wind speak, for he knows plenty of stories and fairy tales, many more than
are known to any of us. Just hear what the wind can tell.

Huh--uh--ush! roar along! That is the burden of the song.

"By the shores of the Great Belt, one of the straits that unite the Cattegut with the Baltic,
lies an old mansion with thick red walls," says the Wind. "I know every stone in it; I saw
it when it still belonged to the castle of Marsk Stig on the promontory. But it had to be pulled
down, and the stone was used again for the walls of a new mansion in another place, the baronial
mansion of Borreby, which still stands by the coast.

"I knew them, the noble lords and ladies, the changing races that dwelt there, and now I'm
going to tell about Waldemar Daa and his daughters. How proudly he carried himself--he was
of royal blood! He could do more than merely hunt the stag and empty the wine-can. 'It shall
be done,' he was accustomed to say.

"His wife walked proudly in gold-embroidered garments over the polished marble floors. The
tapestries were gorgeous, the furniture was expensive and artistically carved. She had brought
gold and silver plate with her into the house, and there was German beer in the cellar. Black
fiery horses neighed in the stables. There was a wealthy look about the house of Borreby at
that time, when wealth was still at home there.

"Then I lay down to rest on the shore of Seeland, in the neighbourhood of the great house of
Borreby, where the forest, the splendid oak forest, still rose.

"I lay quite quiet," continued the Wind; "but I silently touched a branch, which had been brought
by the handsomest of the men-servants, and the wood blazed up brightly, blazed up higher than
all the rest; and now he was the chosen one, and bore the name the Street-goat, and might choose
his Street-lamb first from among the maids; and there was mirth and rejoicing, greater than
I had ever heard before in the halls of the rich baronial mansion. The mother was a proud tulip,
and never acknowledged the salutation of one of the men or maids who paused in their sport
to do her honour: the gracious lady seemed a flower that was rather stiff in the stalk.

"Rose, lily, and pale hyacinth; yes, I saw them all three! Whose lambkins will they one day
become? thought I; their Street-goat will be a gallant knight, perhaps a prince. Huh--sh! hurry
along! hurry along!

"Yes, the carriage rolled on with them, and the peasant people resumed their dancing. They
rode that summer through all the villages round about. But in the night, when I rose again,"
said the Wind, "the very noble lady lay down, to rise again no more: that thing came upon her
which comes upon all--there is nothing new in that.

"Waldemar Daa stood for a space silent and thoughtful.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I returned again; I often returned again over the Island of Fünen, and the shores of the Belt,
and I sat down by Borreby, by the splendid oak wood; there the heron made his nest, and wood-pigeons
haunted the place, and blue ravens, and even the black stork. It was still spring; some of
them were yet sitting on their eggs, others had already hatched their young. But how they flew
up, how they cried! The axe sounded, blow on blow: the wood was to be felled.

"There was a great hewing and sawing, and a three-decker was built. But in spite of his wise
head, the architect remained but a poor bird; and, indeed, what business has a sparrow to take
part in a dance of peacocks? Huh--sh! I careered away, and he careered away too, for he was
not allowed to stay; and little Ida got over it, because she was obliged to get over it.

"The proud black horses were neighing in the stable; they were worth looking at, and accordingly
they were looked at. Huh--sh! push along!

"But the daughters were still young, and little Ida was a rose, as fair to look upon as on
the day when the architect saw her.

"Her sister was bright and slender as a lily. Joanna had height and deportment, but was like
her mother, rather stiff in the stalk. They were handsome women. The gentlemen were represented
clad in steel, or in costly cloaks lined with squirrel's skin; they wore little ruffs, and
swords at their sides, but not buckled to their hips. In his chimney there was fire even in
summer time. He would lock the door of his room, and for days the fire would be poked and raked;
but of this he did not talk much--the forces of nature must be conquered in silence; and soon
he would discover the art of making the best thing of all--the red gold.

"That is why the chimney was always smoking, therefore the flames crackled so frequently. Yes,
I was there too," said the Wind. "Let it go, I sang down through the chimney: it will end in
smoke, air, coals and ashes! You will burn yourself! Hu-uh-ush! drive away! drive away! But
Waldemar Daa did not drive it away."

"The splendid black horses in the stable--what became of them? what became of the old gold
and silver vessels in cupboards and chests, the cows in the fields, and the house and home
itself? Yes, they may melt, may melt in the golden crucible, and yet yield no gold.

"Empty grew the barns and store-rooms, the cellars and magazines. The servants decreased in
number, and the mice multiplied. Then a window broke, and then another, and I could get in
elsewhere besides at the door," said the Wind.

"I blew through the courtyard-gate like a watchman blowing his horn," the Wind went on, "but
no watchman was there.

"I blew the smoke and ashes into his face and beard: the result of his labour was debt instead
of pelf. They had no wood, and the forest from which they might have brought it was cut down.
It was a biting frost. I rushed in through loopholes and passages, over gables and roofs, that
I might be brisk. They were lying in bed because of the cold, the three high-born daughters;
and their father was crouching under his leathern coverlet. Nothing to bite, nothing to break,
no fire on the hearth--there was a life for high-born people! Huh-sh, let it go! Let them destroy
it again, and thou wilt resolutely begin to work again--again! That is what we must do, and
that will repay itself at last.'

"It was the morning of Easter-day. The bells sounded from the neighbouring church, and the
sun seemed to rejoice in the sky.

"Look at the alchymic glass! It glows in the crucible, red-hot, and pure and heavy! Then there
was another kind of sweeping clean at Waldemar Daa's, in the mansion of Borreby. His enemy,
Owe Rainel, of Basnäs, was there with the mortgage of the house and everything it contained
in his pocket. I drummed against the broken window-panes, beat against the old rotten doors,
and whistled through cracks and rifts--huh-sh! Mr. Owe Rainel did not like staying there. Owe
Rainel offered to allow Waldemar Daa to remain in the mansion till the end of his life, but
no thanks were given him for his offer. I listened to hear what occurred. Fortune would not
turn because she did so. She looked at the old walls of what had once been the castle of Marsk
Stig, and perhaps she thought of his daughters:

    'The eldest gave the youngest her hand.
    And forth they went to the far-off land.'

Was she thinking of this old song? Here were three of them, and their father was with them too.

       *       *       *       *       *

And how did Waldemar Daa and his daughters prosper? The Wind tells us:

"The one I saw last, yes, for the last time, was Anna Dorothea, the pale hyacinth: then she
was old and bent, for it was fifty years afterwards. She lived longer than the rest; she knew all.

"Yonder on the heath, by the Jutland town of Wiborg, stood the fine new house of the canon,
built of red bricks with projecting gables; the smoke came up thickly from the chimney.

"That is a house to be looked at, but not to be touched; I must deal gently with it," said
the Wind. She remembered all that right well, did Anna Dorothea.

"'Oh! oh!' Yes, people can sigh like the wind moaning in the rushes and reeds. 'Oh! oh!'" she
sighed, "no bells sounded at thy burial, Waldemar Daa! I suppose he is under the ground now.
And thou, Ida? Alas, alas! it is not ended yet, wretch that I am! "Her courage was like that
of a man, and in man's clothes she took service as a sailor on board of a ship. She was sparing
of words, and of a dark countenance, but willing at her work. But she did not know how to climb;
so I blew her overboard before anybody found out that she was a woman, and according to my
thinking that was well done!" said the Wind. The sun rose up like a mass of gold, and looked
through. What a splendour he diffused! I sang at her grave!" said the Wind. "I sang at her
father's grave; I know where his grave is, and where hers is, and nobody else knows it.

"New times, changed times! The old high-road now runs through cultivated fields; the new road
winds among the trim ditches, and soon the railway will come with its train of carriages, and
rush over the graves which are forgotten like the names--hu-ush! passed away, passed away!

"That is the story of Waldemar Daa and his daughters. Tell it better, any of you, if you know
how," said the Wind, and turned away--and he was gone.

IB AND CHRISTINE.

Not far from the clear stream Gudenau, in North Jutland, in the forest which extends by its
banks and far into the country, a great ridge of land rises and stretches along like a wall
through the wood. By this ridge, westward, stands a farmhouse, surrounded by poor land; the
sandy soil is seen through the spare rye and wheat-ears that grow upon it. Some years have
elapsed since the time of which we speak. Indeed, they could have managed to save enough to
keep two horses; but, like the other peasants of the neighbourhood, they said, "The horse eats
itself up"--that is to say, it eats as much as it earns. Jeppe-Jäns cultivated his field in
summer. In the winter he made wooden shoes, and then he had an assistant, a journeyman, who
understood as well as he himself did how to make the wooden shoes strong, and light, and graceful.
They carved shoes and spoons, and that brought in money. It would have been wronging the Jeppe-Jänses
to call them poor people.

Little Ib, a boy seven years old, the only child of the family, would sit by, looking at the
workmen, cutting at a stick, and occasionally cutting his finger. But one day Ib succeeded
so well with two pieces of wood, that they really looked like little wooden shoes; and these
he wanted to give to little Christine. And who was little Christine? She was the boatman's
daughter, and was graceful and delicate as a gentleman's child; had she been differently dressed,
no one would have imagined that she came out of the hut on the neighbouring heath. There lived
her father, who was a widower, and supported himself by carrying firewood in his great boat
out of the forest to the estate of Silkeborg, with its great eel-pond and eel-weir, and sometimes
even to the distant little town of Randers. He had no one who could take care of little Christine,
and therefore the child was almost always with him in his boat, or in the forest among the
heath plants and barberry bushes. Sometimes, when he had to go as far as the town, he would
bring little Christine, who was a year younger than Ib, to stay at the Jeppe-Jänses.

Ib and Christine agreed very well in every particular: they divided their bread and berries
when they were hungry, they dug in the ground together for treasures, and they ran, and crept,
and played about everywhere. And one day they ventured together up the high ridge, and a long
way into the forest; once they found a few snipes' eggs there, and that was a great event for them.

Ib had never been on the heath where Christine's father lived, nor had he ever been on the
river. But even this was to happen; for Christine's father once invited him to go with them;
and on the evening before the excursion, he followed the boatman over the heath to the house
of the latter.

Next morning early, the two children were sitting high up on the pile of firewood in the boat,
eating bread and whistleberries. Christine's father and his assistant propelled the boat with
staves. They had the current with them, and swiftly they glided down the stream, through the
lakes it forms in its course, and which sometimes seemed shut in by reeds and water plants,
though there was always room for them to pass, and though the old trees bent quite forward
over the water, and the old oaks bent down their bare branches, as if they had turned up their
sleeves and wanted to show their knotty naked arms. Old alder trees, which the stream had washed
away from the bank, clung with their fibrous roots to the bottom of the stream, and looked
like little wooded islands. The water-lilies rocked themselves on the river. It was a splendid
excursion; and at last they came to the great eel-weir, where the water rushed through the
flood-gates; and Ib and Christine thought this was beautiful to behold.

In those days there was no manufactory there, nor was there any town; only the old great farmyard,
with its scanty fields, with few servants and a few head of cattle, could be seen there; and
the rushing of the water through the weir and the cry of the wild ducks were the only signs
of life in Silkeborg. After the firewood had been unloaded, the father of Christine bought
a whole bundle of eels and a slaughtered sucking-pig, and all was put into a basket and placed
in the stern of the boat. Then they went back again up the stream; but the wind was favourable,
and when the sails were hoisted, it was as good as if two horses had been harnessed to the boat.

When they had arrived at a point in the stream where the assistant-boatman dwelt, a little
way from the bank, the boat was moored, and the two men landed, after exhorting the children
to sit still. But the children did not do that; or at least they obeyed only for a very short
time. They must be peeping into the basket in which the eels and the sucking-pig had been placed,
and they must needs pull the sucking-pig out, and take it in their hands, and feel and touch
it all over; and as both wanted to hold it at the same time, it came to pass that they let
it fall into the water, and the sucking-pig drifted away with the stream--and here was a terrible
event!

Ib jumped ashore, and ran a little distance along the bank, and Christine sprang after him.

"Take me with you!" she cried.

And in a few minutes they were deep in the thicket, and could no longer see either the boat
or the bank. They ran on a little farther, and then Christine fell down on the ground and began
to cry; but Ib picked her up.

"Follow me!" he cried. "Yonder lies the house."

But the house was not yonder. They wandered on and on, over the dry, rustling, last year's
leaves, and over fallen branches that crackled beneath their feet. Soon they heard a loud piercing
scream. They stood still and listened, and presently the scream of an eagle sounded through
the wood. It was an ugly scream, and they were frightened at it; but before them, in the thick
wood, the most beautiful blueberries grew in wonderful profusion. They were so inviting, that
the children could not do otherwise than stop; and they lingered for some time, eating the
blueberries till they had quite blue mouths and blue cheeks. Now again they heard the cry they
had heard before.

"We shall get into trouble about the pig," said Christine.

"Come, let us go to our house," said Ib; "it is here in the wood."

And they went forward. They presently came to a wood, but it did not lead them home; and darkness
came on, and they were afraid. The wonderful stillness that reigned around was interrupted
now and then by the shrill cries of the great horrid owl and of the birds that were strange
to them. At last they both lost themselves in a thicket. Christine cried, and Ib cried too;
and after they had bemoaned themselves for a time, they threw themselves down on the dry leaves,
and went fast asleep.

The sun was high in the heavens when the two children awoke. They were cold; but in the neighbourhood
of this resting-place, on the hill, the sun shone through the trees, and there they thought
they would warm themselves; and from there Ib fancied they would be able to see his parents'
house. But they were far away from the house in question, in quite another part of the forest.
They clambered to the top of the rising ground, and found themselves on the summit of a slope
running down to the margin of a transparent lake. They could see fish in great numbers in the
pure water illumined by the sun's rays. This spectacle was quite a sudden surprise for them;
but close beside them grew a nut bush covered with the finest nuts; and now they picked the
nuts, and cracked them, and ate the delicate young kernels, which had only just become perfect.
The whites of her eyes gleamed like a negro's; on her back she carried a bundle, and in her
hand she bore a knotted stick. She was a gipsy. The children did not at once understand what
she said. She brought three nuts out of her pocket, and told them that in these nuts the most
beautiful, the loveliest things were hidden; for they were wishing-nuts.

Ib looked at her, and she seemed so friendly, that he plucked up courage and asked her if she
would give him the nuts; and the woman gave them to him, and gathered some more for herself,
a whole pocketful, from the nut bush.

And Ib and Christine looked at the wishing-nuts with great eyes.

"Is there a carriage with a pair of horses in this nut?" he asked.

"Yes, there's a golden carriage with two horses," answered the woman.

"Then give me the nut," said little Christine.

And Ib gave it to her, and the strange woman tied it in her pocket-handkerchief for her.

"Is there in this nut a pretty little neckerchief, like the one Christine wears round her neck?"
inquired Ib.

"There are ten neckerchiefs in it," answered the woman. "There are beautiful dresses in it,
and stockings, and a hat with a veil."

"Then I will have that one too," cried little Christine.

And Ib gave her the second nut also. The third was a little black thing.

"That one you can keep," said Christine; "and it is a pretty one too."

"What is in it?" inquired Ib.

"The best of all things for you," replied the gipsy-woman. But that is no reason why we should
suspect the gipsy-woman of wanting to steal the children. In the wild wood-path they met the
forest bailiff, who knew Ib; and by his help, Ib and Christine both arrived at home, where
their friends had been very anxious about them. They were pardoned and forgiven, although they
had indeed both deserved "to get into trouble;" firstly, because they had let the sucking-pig
fall into the water, and secondly, because they had run away.

Christine was taken back to her father on the heath, and Ib remained in the farmhouse on the
margin of the wood by the great ridge. The first thing he did in the evening was to bring forth
out of his pocket the little black nut, in which "the best thing of all" was said to be enclosed.
He placed it carefully in the crack of the door, and then shut the door so as to break the
nut; but there was not much kernel in it. The nut looked as if it were filled with tobacco
or black rich earth; it was what we call hollow, or worm-eaten.

"Yes, that's exactly what I thought," said Ib. "How could the very best thing be contained
in this little nut? And Christine will get just as little out of her two nuts, and will have
neither fine clothes nor the golden carriage."

       *       *       *       *       *

And winter came on, and the new year began; indeed, several years went by.

Ib was at last to be confirmed; and for this reason he went during a whole winter to the clergyman,
far away in the nearest village, to prepare. About this time the boatman one day visited Ib's
parents, and told them that Christine was now going into service, and that she had been really
fortunate in getting a remarkably good place, and falling into worthy hands.

"Only think," he said; "she is going to the rich innkeeper's, in the inn at Herning, far towards
the west, many miles from here. She is to assist the hostess in keeping the house; and afterwards,
if she takes to it well, and stays to be confirmed there, the people are going to adopt her
as their own daughter." And thereupon they parted.

Ib was confirmed. But he remained in his mother's house, for he had become a clever maker of
wooden shoes, and in summer he looked after the field. He did it all alone, for his mother
kept no farm-servant, and his father had died long ago.

Only seldom he got news of Christine from some passing postillion or eel-fisher. This was certainly
good news.

Next spring, there was a knock one day at the door of our Ibis old mother, and behold, the
boatman and Christine stepped into the room. She had come on a visit to spend a day: a carriage
had to come from the Herning Inn to the next village, and she had taken the opportunity to
see her friends once again. She looked as handsome as a real lady, and she had a pretty gown
on, which had been well sewn, and made expressly for her. There she stood, in grand array,
and Ib was in his working clothes. He could not utter a word: he certainly seized her hand,
and held it fast in his own, and was heartily glad; but he could not get his tongue to obey
him. Christine was not embarrassed, however, for she went on talking and talking, and, moreover,
kissed Ib on his mouth in the heartiest manner.

"Did you know me again directly, Ib?" she asked; but even afterwards, when they were left quite
by themselves, and he stood there still holding her hand in his, he could only say:

"You look quite like a real lady, and I am so uncouth. How often I have thought of you, Christine,
and of the old times!"

And arm in arm they sauntered up the great ridge, and looked across the stream towards the
heath, towards the great hills overgrown with bloom. It was perfectly silent; but by the time
they parted it had grown quite clear to him that Christine must be his wife. Had they not,
even in their childhood, been called the betrothed pair? To him they seemed to be really engaged
to each other, though neither of them had spoken a word on the subject. Only for a few more
hours could they remain together, for Christine was obliged to go back into the next village,
from whence the carriage was to start early next morning for Herning. Her father and Ib escorted
her as far as the village. It was a fair moonlight evening, and when they reached their destination,
and Ib still held Christine's hand in his own, he could not make up his mind to let her go.
His eyes brightened, but still the words came halting over his lips. Yet they came from the
depths of his heart, when he said:

"If you have not become too grand, Christine, and if you can make up your mind to live with
me in my mother's house as my wife, we must become a wedded pair some day; but we can wait
awhile yet."

"Yes, let us wait for a time, Ib," she replied; and he kissed her lips. "I confide in you,
Ib," said Christine; "and I think that I love you--but I will sleep upon it."

And with that they parted. And on the way home Ib told the boatman that he and Christine were
as good as betrothed; and the boatman declared he had always expected it would turn out so;
and he went home with Ib, and remained that night in the young man's house; but nothing further
was said of the betrothal.

A year passed by, in the course of which two letters were exchanged between Ib and Christine.
The signature was prefaced by the words, "Faithful till death!" One day the boatman came into
Ib, and brought him a greeting from Christine. What he had further to say was brought out in
somewhat hesitating fashion, but it was to the effect that Christine was almost more than prosperous,
for she was a pretty girl, courted and loved. The son of the host had been home on a visit;
he was employed in the office of some great institution in Copenhagen; and he was very much
pleased with Christine, and she had taken a fancy to him: his parents were ready to give their
consent, but Christine was very anxious to retain Ib's good opinion; "and so she had thought
of refusing this great piece of good fortune," said the boatman.

At first Ib said not a word; but he became as white as the wall, and slightly shook his head.
Then he said slowly:

"Christine must not refuse this advantageous offer."

"Then do you write a few words to her," said the boatman.

And Ib sat down to write; but he could not manage it well: the words would not come as he wished
them; and first he altered, and then he tore up the page; but the next morning a letter lay
ready to be sent to Christine, and it contained the following words:

     "I have read the letter you have sent to your father, and
     gather from it that you are prospering in all things, and
     that there is a prospect of higher fortune for you. Ask your
     heart, Christine, and ponder well the fate that awaits you,
     if you take me for your husband; what I possess is but
     little. Do not think of me, or my position, but think of
     your own welfare. You are bound to me by no promise, and if
     in your heart you have given me one, I release you from it.
     May all treasures of happiness be poured out upon you,
     Christine. Heaven will console me in its own good time.

                           "Ever your sincere friend,

                                                    "IB"

And the letter was dispatched, and Christine duly received it. On the journey, Christine met
her father in a certain village; and here the two took leave of one another. A few words were
mentioned concerning this fact, but Ib made no remark upon it: his mother said he had grown
very silent of late; indeed, he had become very pensive, and thus the three nuts came into
his mind which the gipsy-woman had given him long ago, and of which he had given two to Christine.
Yes, it seemed right--they were wishing-nuts, and in one of them lay a golden carriage with
two horses, and in the other very elegant clothes; all those luxuries would now be Christine's
in the capital. Her part had thus come true. And to him, Ib, the nut had offered only black
earth. The gipsy-woman had said, this was "the best of all for him." Yes, it was right, that
also was coming true. The black earth was the best for him. Now he understood clearly what
had been the woman's meaning. In the black earth, in the dark grave, would be the best happiness
for him. Poor Christine! neither she nor her husband had understood how to keep the money together;
and there seemed to be no blessing with it, because they had not sought it.

And again the weather bloomed and faded. The winter had swept for many years across the heath,
and over the ridge beneath which Ib dwelt, sheltered from the rough winds. The spring sun shone
bright, and Ib guided the plough across his field, when one day it glided over what appeared
to be a fire stone. Something like a great black ship came out of the ground, and when Ib took
it up it proved to be a piece of metal; and the place from which the plough had cut the stone
gleamed brightly with ore. It was a great golden armlet of ancient workmanship that he had
found. He had disturbed a "Hun's Grave," and discovered the costly treasure buried in it. Ib
showed what he had found to the clergyman, who explained its value to him, and then he betook
himself to the local judges, who reported the discovery to the keeper of the museum, and recommended
Ib to deliver up the treasure in person.

"You have found in the earth the best thing you could find," said the judge.

"The best thing!" thought Ib. "The very best thing for me, and found in the earth! Well, if
that is the best, the gipsy-woman was correct in what she prophesied to me."

So Ib travelled with the ferry-boat from Aarhus to Copenhagen. To him, who had but once or
twice passed beyond the river that rolled by his home, this seemed like a voyage across the ocean.

On the day on which he had settled to go back with the captain, Ib lost his way in the streets,
and took quite a different direction from the one he intended to follow. He had wandered into
the suburb of Christianhaven, into a poor little street. Not a human being was to be seen.
At last a very little girl came out of one of the wretched houses. Ib inquired of the little
one the way to the street which he wanted; but she looked shyly at him, and began to cry bitterly.
He asked her what ailed her, but could not understand what she said in reply. But as they went
along the street together, they passed beneath the light of a lamp; and when the light fell
on the girl's face, he felt a strange and sharp emotion, for Christine stood bodily before
him, just as he remembered her from the days of his childhood.

And he went with the little maiden into the wretched house, and ascended the narrow, crazy
staircase, which led to a little attic chamber in the roof. The air in this chamber was heavy
and almost suffocating: no light was burning; but there was heavy sighing and moaning in one
corner. Ib struck a light with the help of a match. It was the mother of the child who lay
sighing on the miserable bed.

"Can I be of any service to you?" asked Ib. "This little girl has brought me up here, but I
am a stranger in this city. Are there no neighbours or friends whom I could call to you?" And
he raised the sick woman's head, and smoothed her pillow.

It was Christine of the heath! His carriage had bent over more and more, so to speak, until
at last it turned over completely. The many merry companions and table-friends he had entertained
declared it served him right, for he had kept house like a madman; and one morning his corpse
was found in the canal.

The icy hand of death was already on Christine. Her youngest child, only a few weeks old, expected
in prosperity and born in misery, was already in its grave, and it had come to this with Christine
herself, that she lay, sick to death and forsaken, in a miserable room, amid a poverty that
she might well have borne in her childish days, but which now oppressed her painfully, since
she had been accustomed to better things. It was her eldest child, also a little Christine,
that here suffered hunger and poverty with her, and whom Ib had now brought home.

"I am unhappy at the thought of dying and leaving the poor child here alone," she said. "Ah,
what is to become of the poor thing?" And not a word more could she utter. And Ib looked at
the little girl, and thought how Christine had looked when she was young; and he felt that
for her sake he would be fond of this child, which was as yet a stranger to him. The dying
woman gazed at him, and her eyes opened wider and wider--did she recognize him? He never knew,
for no further word passed over her lips.

       *       *       *       *       *

And it was in the forest by the river Gudenau, in the region of the heath. The air was thick
and dark, and there were no blossoms on the heath plant; but the autumn tempests whirled the
yellow leaves from the wood into the stream, and out over the heath towards the hut of the
boatman, in which strangers now dwelt; but beneath the ridge, safe beneath the protection of
the high trees, stood the little farm, trimly whitewashed and painted, and within it the turf
blazed up cheerily in the chimney; for within was sunlight, the beaming sunlight of a child's
two eyes; and the tones of the spring birds sounded in the words that came from the child's
rosy lips: she sat on Ib's knee, and Ib was to her both father and mother, for her own parents
were dead, and had vanished from her as a dream vanishes alike from children and grown men.
He had won gold out of the black earth, and he had a Christine for his own, after all.

THE BOTTLE-NECK. But after all it is well that there should be somebody at least who is merry.
I've no reason to sing, and, moreover, I can't sing. Yes, when I was a whole bottle, I sung
out well if they rubbed me with a cork. They used to call me a perfect lark, a magnificent
lark! Ah, when I was out at a picnic with the tanner's family, and his daughter was betrothed!
Yes, I remember it as if it had happened only yesterday. I have gone through a great deal,
when I come to recollect. I've been in the fire and the water, have been deep in the black
earth, and have mounted higher than most of the others; and now I'm hanging here, outside the
birdcage, in the air and the sunshine! Oh, it would be quite worth while to hear my history;
but I don't speak aloud of it, because I can't."

And now the Bottle-neck told its story, which was sufficiently remarkable. It thought of the
flaming furnace in the manufactory, where it had been blown into life; it still remembered
that it had been quite warm, that it had glanced into the hissing furnace, the home of its
origin, and had felt a great desire to leap directly back again; but that gradually it had
become cooler, and had been very comfortable in the place to which it was taken. It had stood
in a rank with a whole regiment of brothers and sisters, all out of the same furnace; some
of them had certainly been blown into champagne bottles, and others into beer bottles, and
that makes a difference.

All the bottles were packed up, and our bottle was among them. At that time it did not think
to finish its career as a bottle-neck, or that it should work its way up to be a bird's glass,
which is always an honourable thing; for one is of some consequence, after all. The bottle
did not again behold the light of day till it was unpacked with the other bottles in the cellar
of the wine merchant, and rinsed out for the first time; and that was a strange sensation.
There it lay, empty and without a cork, and felt strangely unwell, as if it wanted something,
it could not tell what. At last it was filled with good costly wine, and was provided with
a cork, and sealed down. A ticket was placed on it, marked "first quality;" and it felt as
if it had carried off the first prize at an examination; for, you see, the wine was good and
the bottle was good. When one is young, that's the time for poetry! There was a singing and
sounding within it, of things which it could not understand--of green sunny mountains, whereon
the grape grows, where many vine dressers, men and women, sing and dance and rejoice. "Ah,
how beautiful is life!" There was a singing and sounding to all this in the bottle, as in a
young poet's brain; and many a young poet does not understand the meaning of the song that
is within him.

One morning the bottle was bought, for the tanner's apprentice was dispatched for a bottle
of wine--"of the best." And now it was put in the provision basket, with ham and cheese and
sausages; the finest butter and the best bread were put into the basket too, the tanner's daughter
herself packed it. She was young and pretty; her brown eyes laughed, and round her mouth played
a smile as elegant as that in her eyes. She had delicate hands, beautifully white, and her
neck was whiter still; you saw at once that she was one of the most beautiful girls in the
town: and still she was not engaged.

The provision basket was in the lap of the young girl when the family drove out into the forest.
It also looked at the young sailor who sat next to the girl. He was a friend of old days, the
son of the portrait painter. Quite lately he had passed with honour through his examination
as mate, and to-morrow he was to sail away in a ship, far off to a distant land. There had
been much talk of this while the basket was being packed; and certainly the eyes and mouth
of the tanner's pretty daughter did not wear a very joyous expression just then.

The young people sauntered through the green wood, and talked to one another. What were they
talking of? No, the bottle could not hear that, for it was in the provision basket. A long
time passed before it was drawn forth; but when that happened, there had been pleasant things
going on, for all were laughing, and the tanner's daughter laughed too; but she spoke less
than before, and her cheeks glowed like two roses.

The father took the full bottle and the corkscrew in his hand. Yes, it's a strange thing to
be drawn thus, the first time! The bottle-neck could never afterwards forget that impressive
moment; and indeed there was quite a convulsion within him when the cork flew out, and a great
throbbing as the wine poured forth into the glasses.

And so saying he hurled it high into the air. The tanner's daughter did not then think that
she should see the bottle fly again; and yet it was to be so. It then fell into the thick reeds
on the margin of a little woodland lake; and the bottle-neck could remember quite plainly how
it lay there for some time. Then at last came two peasant boys, and looked into the reeds;
they spied out the bottle, and took it up; and now it was provided for.

At their home, in the wood cottage, the eldest of these brothers, who was a sailor, and about
to start on a long voyage, had been the day before to take leave: the mother was just engaged
packing up various things he was to take with him on his journey, and which the father was
going to carry into the town that evening to see his son once more, and to give him a farewell
greeting for the lad's mother and himself. A little bottle of medicated brandy had already
been wrapped up in a parcel, when the boys came in with a larger and stronger bottle which
they had found. This bottle would hold more than the little one, and they pronounced that the
brandy would be capital for a bad digestion, inasmuch as it was mixed with medical herbs. The
draught that was now poured into the bottle was not so good as the red wine with which it had
once been filled; these were bitter drops, but even these are sometimes good. The new big bottle
was to go, and not the little one; and so the bottle went travelling again. It was taken on
board for Peter Jensen, in the very same ship in which the young mate sailed. But he did not
see the bottle; and, indeed, he would not have known it, or thought it was the same one out
of which they had drunk a health to the betrothed pair, and to his own happy return.

Certainly it had no longer wine to give, but still it contained something that was just as
good. Accordingly, whenever Peter Jensen brought it out, it was dubbed by his messmates The
Apothecary. It contained the best medicine, medicine that strengthened the weak, and it gave
liberally so long as it had a drop left. The mainmast was shivered, and a wave started one
of the planks, and the pumps became useless. It was black night. The ship sank; but at the
last moment the young mate wrote on a leaf of paper, "God's will be done! We are sinking!"

The ship sank, and the crew sank with her. The bottle sped on like a bird, for it bore a heart,
a loving letter, within itself. And the sun rose and set; and the bottle felt as at the time
when it first came into being in the red gleaming oven--it felt a strong desire to leap back
into the light.

It experienced calms and fresh storms; but it was hurled against no rock, and was devoured
by no shark; and thus it drifted on for a year and a day, sometimes towards the north, sometimes
towards the south, just as the current carried it. Beyond this it was its own master, but one
may grow tired even of that.

The written page, the last farewell of the bridegroom to his betrothed, would only bring sorrow
if it came into her hands; but where were the hands, so white and delicate, which had once
spread the cloth on the fresh grass in the greenwood, on the betrothal day? Where was the tanner's
daughter? Yes, where was the land, and which land might be nearest to her dwelling? The bottle
knew not; it drove onward and onward, and was at last tired of wandering, because that was
not in its way; but yet it had to travel until at last it came to land--to a strange land.
It understood not a word of what was spoken here, for this was not the language it had heard
spoken before; and one loses a good deal if one does not understand the language.

The bottle was fished out and examined on all sides. The leaf of paper within it was discovered,
and taken out, and turned over and over, but the people did not understand what was written
thereon. They saw that the bottle must have been thrown overboard, and that something about
this was written on the paper, but what were the words? That question remained unanswered,
and the paper was put back into the bottle, and the latter was deposited in a great cupboard,
in a great room, in a great house.

Whenever strangers came the paper was brought out, and turned over and over, so that the inscription,
which was only written in pencil, became more and more illegible, so that at last no one could
see that there were letters on it.

For full twenty years it stood up in the loft; and it might have remained there longer, but
that the house was to be rebuilt. The roof was taken off, and then the bottle was noticed,
and they spoke about it, but it did not understand their language; for one cannot learn a language
by being shut up in a loft, even if one stays there for twenty years.

"If I had been down in the room," thought the Bottle, "I might have learned it."

It was now washed and rinsed, and indeed this was requisite. It felt quite transparent and
fresh, and as if its youth had been renewed in this its old age; but the paper it had carried
so faithfully had been destroyed in the washing.

The bottle was filled with seeds, though it scarcely knew what they were. It was corked, and
well wrapped up. No light nor lantern was it vouchsafed to behold, much less the sun or the
moon; and yet, it thought, when one goes on a journey one ought to see something; but though
it saw nothing, it did what was most important--it travelled to the place of its destination,
and was there unpacked.

"What trouble they have taken over yonder with that bottle!" it heard people say; "and yet
it is most likely broken." But it was not broken.

The bottle understood every word that was now said; this was the language it had heard at the
furnace, and at the wine merchant's, and in the forest, and in the ship, the only good old
language it understood: it had come back home, and the language was as a salutation of welcome
to it. For very joy it felt ready to jump out of people's hands; hardly did it notice that
its cork had been drawn, and that it had been emptied and carried into the cellar, to be placed
there and forgotten. There's no place like home, even if it's in a cellar! It never occurred
to the bottle to think how long it would lie there, for it felt comfortable, and accordingly
lay there for years. At last people came down into the cellar to carry off all the bottles,
and ours among the rest.

Out in the garden there was a great festival. Flaming lamps hung like garlands, and paper lanterns
shone transparent, like great tulips. Among the leaves of the hedges stood bottles, with a
light in each; and among them was also the bottle we know, and which was destined one day to
finish its career as a bottle-neck, a bird's drinking-glass. Thus it stood, in a distant walk
certainly, but that made it the more important; for it bore its light, and was at once ornamental
and useful, and that is as it should be: in such an hour one forgets twenty years spent in
a loft, and it is right one should do so.

There passed close to it a pair, like the pair who had walked together long ago in the wood,
the sailor and the tanner's daughter; the bottle seemed to experience all that over again.
In the garden were walking not only the guests, but other people who were allowed to view all
the splendour; and among these latter came an old maid who seemed to stand alone in the world.
She was just thinking, like the bottle, of the greenwood, and of a young betrothed pair--of
a pair which concerned her very nearly, a pair in which she had an interest, and of which she
had been a part, in that happiest hour of her life--the hour one never forgets, if one should
become ever so old a maid. But she did not know our bottle, nor did the bottle recognize the
old maid: it is thus we pass each other in the world, meeting again and again, as these two
met, now that they were together again in the same town. The bottle saw everything, from a
basket in which it lay next to a live rabbit, which latter was quite bewildered because he
knew he was to be taken up into the air, and let down again in a parachute; but the bottle
knew nothing of the "up" or the "down;" it only saw the balloon swelling up bigger and bigger,
and at last, when it could swell no more, beginning to rise, and to grow more and more restless.
The ropes that held it were cut, and the huge machine floated aloft with the aëronaut and the
basket containing the bottle and the rabbit, and the music sounded, and all the people cried,
"Hurrah!"

"This is a wonderful passage, up into the air!" thought the Bottle; "this is a new way of sailing;
at any rate, up here we cannot strike upon anything."

Thousands of people gazed up at the balloon, and the old maid looked up at it also; she stood
at the open window of the garret, in which hung the cage with the little chaffinch, who had
no water-glass as yet, but was obliged to be content with an old cup. In the window stood a
myrtle in a pot; and it had been put a little aside that it might not fall out, for the old
maid was leaning out of the window to look, and she distinctly saw the aëronaut in the balloon,
and how he let down the rabbit in the parachute, and then drank to the health of all the spectators,
and at length hurled the bottle high in the air; she never thought that this was the identical
bottle which she had already once seen thrown aloft in honour of her and of her friend on the
day of rejoicing in the greenwood, in the time of her youth.

The bottle had no respite for thought; for it was quite startled at thus suddenly reaching
the highest point in its career. Steeples and roofs lay far, far beneath, and the people looked
like mites.

But now it began to descend with a much more rapid fall than that of the rabbit; the bottle
threw somersaults in the air, and felt quite young, and quite free and unfettered; and yet
it was half full of wine, though it did not remain so long. What a journey! The sun shone on
the bottle, all the people were looking at it, the balloon was already far away, and soon the
bottle was far away too; for it fell upon a roof and broke; but the pieces had got such an
impetus that they could not stop themselves, but went jumping and rolling on till they came
down into the courtyard and lay there in smaller pieces yet; the bottle-neck only managed to
keep whole, and that was cut off as clean as if it had been done with a diamond.

"That would do capitally for a bird-glass," said the cellarmen; but they had neither a bird
nor a cage; and to expect them to provide both because they had found a bottle-neck that might
be made available for a glass, would have been expecting too much; but the old maid in the
garret, perhaps it might be useful to her; and now the bottle-neck was taken up to her, and
was provided with a cork. The part that had been uppermost was now turned downwards, as often
happens when changes take place; fresh water was poured into it, and it was fastened to the
cage of the little bird, which sung and twittered right merrily.

"Yes, it's very well for you to sing," said the Bottle-neck; and it was considered remarkable
for having been in the balloon--for that was all they knew of its history. "You shall have
a beautiful little nosegay from me, full of blossoms. Do you see how splendidly that tree has
come on? yes, that has been raised from a spray of the myrtle you gave me on the day after
my betrothal, and from which I was to have made my own wreath when the year was past; but that
day never came! The eyes closed that were to have been my joy and delight through life. In
the depths of the sea he sleeps sweetly, my dear one!

GOOD HUMOUR.

My father left me the best inheritance; to wit--good humour. And who was my father? Why, that
has nothing to do with the humour. He was lively and stout, round and fat; and his outer and
inner man were in direct contradiction to his calling. And pray what was he by profession and
calling in civil society? Yes, if this were to be written down and printed in the very beginning
of a book, it is probable that many when they read it would lay the book aside, and say, "It
looks so uncomfortable; I don't like anything of that sort." And yet my father was neither
a horse slaughterer nor an executioner; on the contrary, his office placed him at the head
of the most respectable gentry of the town; and he held his place by right, for it was his
right place. He had to go first before the bishop even, and before the princes of the blood.
He always went first--for he was the driver of the hearse!

There, now it's out! The face said, "It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter; it will be better
than one thinks."

You see, I have inherited my good humour from him, and also the habit of going often to the
churchyard, which is a good thing to do if it be done in the right spirit; and then I take
in the Intelligencer, just as he used to do.

I am not quite young. I have neither wife, nor children, nor a library; but, as aforesaid,
I take in the Intelligencer, and that's my favourite newspaper, as it was also my father's.
It is very useful, and contains everything that a man needs to know--such as who preaches in
the church and in the new books. And then what a lot of charity, and what a number of innocent,
harmless verses are found in it! Advertisements for husbands and wives, and requests for interviews--all
quite simple and natural. Certainly, one may live merrily and be contentedly buried if one
takes in the Intelligencer. And, as a concluding advantage, by the end of his life a man will
have such a capital store of paper, that he may use it as a soft bed, unless he prefers to
rest upon wood-shavings.

The newspaper and my walk to the churchyard were always my most exciting occupations--they
were like bathing-places for my good humour.

The newspaper every one can read for himself. But please come with me to the churchyard; let
us wander there where the sun shines and the trees grow green. Each of the narrow houses is
like a closed book, with the back placed uppermost, so that one can only read the title and
judge what the book contains, but can tell nothing about it; but I know something of them.
I heard it from my father, or found it out myself. I have it all down in my record that I wrote
out for my own use and pleasure: all that lie here, and a few more too, are chronicled in it.

Now we are in the churchyard.

Here, behind this white railing, where once a rose tree grew--it is gone now, but a little
evergreen from the next grave stretches out its green fingers to make a show--there rests a
very unhappy man; and yet, when he lived, he was in what they call a good position. He had
enough to live upon, and something over; but worldly cares, or to speak more correctly, his
artistic taste, weighed heavily upon him. As if that was of any consequence. Is it not quite
immaterial? Who would fidget about such a trifle? It's only make-believe, after all, and every
one is expected to be amused. Then sometimes the public applauded too much to suit his taste,
and sometimes too little. "They're like wet wood this evening," he would say; "they won't kindle
at all!" And then he would look round to see what kind of people they were; and sometimes he
would find them laughing at the wrong time, when they ought not to have laughed, and that vexed
him; and he fretted, and was an unhappy man, and at last fretted himself into his grave.

Here rests a very happy man. That is to say, a very grand man. He was of high birth, and that
was lucky for him, for otherwise he would never have been anything worth speaking of; and nature
orders all that very wisely, so that it's quite charming when we think of it. He used to go
about in a coat embroidered back and front, and appeared in the saloons of society just like
one of those costly, pearl-embroidered bell-pulls, which have always a good, thick, serviceable
cord behind them to do the work. He likewise had a good stout cord behind him, in the shape
of a substitute, who did his duty, and who still continues to do it behind another embroidered
bell-pull. Everything is so nicely managed, it's enough to put one into a good humour.

Here rests--well, it's a very mournful reflection--here rests a man who spent sixty-seven years
considering how he should get a good idea. The object of his life was to say a good thing,
and at last he felt convinced in his own mind that he had got one, and was so glad of it that
he died of pure joy at having caught an idea at last. Nobody derived any benefit from it, and
no one even heard what the good thing was. Now, I can fancy that this same good thing won't
let him live quiet in his grave; for let us suppose that it is a good thing which can only
be brought out at breakfast if it is to make an effect, and that he, according to the received
opinion concerning ghosts, can only rise and walk at midnight. Why, then the good thing would
not suit the time, and the man must carry his good idea down with him again. What an unhappy
man he must be!

Here rests a remarkably stingy woman. During her lifetime she used to get up at night and mew,
so that the neighbours might think she kept a cat--she was so remarkably stingy.

Here is a maiden of another kind. When the canary bird of the heart begins to chirp, reason
puts her fingers in her ears. The maiden was going to be married, but--well, it's an every-day
story, and we will let the dead rest.

Here sleeps a widow who carried melody in her mouth and gall in her heart. She used to go out
for prey in the families round about; and the prey she hunted was her neighbours' faults, and
she was an indefatigable hunter.

Here's a family sepulchre. Every member of this family held so firmly to the opinions of the
rest, that if all the world, and the newspapers into the bargain, said of a certain thing it
is so and so, and the little boy came home from school and said, "I've learned it thus and
thus," they declared his opinion to be the only true one, because he belonged to the family.
And it is an acknowledged fact, that if the yard-cock of the family crowed at midnight, they
would declare it was morning, though the watchmen and all the clocks in the city were crying
out that it was twelve o'clock at night. I inscribe their life and their deeds, looked at in
my fashion, in my record; and that's what all people ought to do. They ought not to be vexed
when any one goes on ridiculously, but bury him directly, and maintain their good humour, and
keep to the Intelligencer, which is often a book written by the people with its hand guided.

When the time comes for me to be bound with my history in the boards of the grave, I hope they
will put up as my epitaph, "A good-humoured one." And that's my story.

A LEAF FROM THE SKY.

High up yonder, in the thin clear air, flew an angel with a flower from the heavenly garden.
As he was kissing the flower, a very little leaf fell down into the soft soil in the midst
of the wood, and immediately took root, and sprouted, and sent forth shoots among the other plants.

"A funny kind of slip that," said the plants.

And neither thistle nor stinging-nettle would recognize the stranger.

"That must be a kind of garden plant," said they.

And they sneered; and the plant was despised by them as being a thing out of the garden.

"Where are you coming?" cried the lofty thistles, whose leaves are all armed with thorns.

"You give yourself a good deal of space. That's all nonsense--we are not here to support you!"
they grumbled.

And winter came, and snow covered the plant; but the plant imparted to the snowy covering a
lustre as if the sun was shining upon it from below as from above. When spring came, the plant
appeared as a blooming object, more beautiful than any production of the forest.

And now appeared on the scene the botanical professor, who could show what he was in black
and white. He inspected the plant and tested it, but found it was not included in his botanical
system; and he could not possibly find out to what class it belonged.

"That must be some subordinate species," he said. "I don't know it. It's not included in any
system."

"Not included in any system!" repeated the thistles and the nettles.

The great trees that stood round about saw and heard it; but they said not a word, good or
bad, which is the wisest thing to do for people who are stupid.

There came through the forest a poor innocent girl. Her heart was pure, and her understanding
was enlarged by faith. Her whole inheritance was an old Bible; but out of its pages a voice
said to her, "If people wish to do us evil, remember how it was said of Joseph. They imagined
evil in their hearts, but God turned it to good. If we suffer wrong--if we are misunderstood
and despised--then we may recall the words of Him who was purity and goodness itself, and who
forgave and prayed for those who buffeted Him and nailed Him to the cross." It seemed to do
her heart good; and gladly would she have plucked a flower, but she could not make up her mind
to break one off, for it would soon fade if she did so. Therefore the girl only took a single
leaf, and laid it in her Bible at home; and it lay there quite fresh, always green, and never
fading.

Among the pages of the Bible it was kept; and, with the Bible, it was laid under the young
girl's head when, a few weeks afterwards, she lay in her coffin, with the solemn calm of death
on her gentle face, as if the earthly remains bore the impress of the truth that she now stood
before her Creator.

But the wonderful plant still bloomed without in the forest. It was almost like a tree to look
upon; and all the birds of passage bowed before it.

"That's giving itself foreign airs now," said the thistles and the burdocks; "we never behave
like that here." The wonderful plant was placed bodily in his bundle.

"It shall be made useful," he said; and so said, so done.

But soon afterwards, the king of the country was troubled with a terrible depression of spirits.
He was busy and industrious, but that did him no good. They read him deep and learned books,
and then they read from the lightest and most superficial that they could find; but it was
of no use. Then one of the wise men of the world, to whom they had applied, sent a messenger
to tell the king that there was one remedy to give him relief and to cure him. He said:

"In the king's own country there grows in a forest a plant of heavenly origin. Its appearance
is thus and thus. It cannot be mistaken."

"I fancy it was taken up in my bundle, and burnt to ashes long ago," said the swineherd; "but
I did not know any better."

"You didn't know any better! Ignorance of ignorances!"

And those words the swineherd might well take to himself, for they were meant for him, and
for no one else.

And the place was surrounded with a golden railing, and a sentry was posted there.

The botanical professor wrote a long treatise upon the heavenly plant. For this he was gilded
all over, and this gilding suited him and his family very well. And indeed that was the most
agreeable part of the whole story. But the king remained as low-spirited as before; but that
he had always been, at least so the sentry said.

THE DUMB BOOK.

By the high-road in the forest lay a lonely peasant's hut; the road went right through the
farmyard. The sun shone down, and all the windows were open. In the house was bustle and movement;
but in the garden, in an arbour of blossoming elder, stood an open coffin. A dead man had been
carried out here, and he was to be buried this morning. Nobody stood by the coffin and looked
sorrowfully at the dead man; no one shed a tear for him: his face was covered with a white
cloth, and under his head lay a great thick book, whose leaves consisted of whole sheets of
blotting paper, and on each leaf lay a faded flower. It was a complete herbanum, gathered by
him in various places; it was to be buried with him, for so he had wished it. With each flower
a chapter in his life was associated.

"Who is the dead man?" we asked; and the answer was:

"The Old Student. They say he was once a brisk lad, and studied the old languages, and sang,
and even wrote poems. Then something happened to him that made him turn his thoughts to brandy,
and take to it; and when at last he had ruined his health, he came out here into the country,
where somebody paid for his board and lodging. He was as gentle as a child, except when the
dark mood came upon him; but when it came he became like a giant, and then ran about in the
woods like a hunted stag; but when we once got him home again, and prevailed with him so far
that he opened the book with the dried plants, he often sat whole days, and looked sometimes
at one plant and sometimes at another, and at times the tears rolled over his cheeks: Heaven
knows what he was thinking of. But he begged us to put the book into the coffin, and now he
lies there, and in a little while the lid will be nailed down, and he will have his quiet rest
in the grave."

The face-cloth was raised, and there was peace upon the features of the dead man, and a sunbeam
played upon it; a swallow shot with arrowy flight into the arbour, and turned rapidly, and
twittered over the dead man's head.

What a strange feeling it is--and we have doubtless all experienced it--that of turning over
old letters of the days of our youth! a new life seems to come up with them, with all its hopes
and sorrows. How many persons with whom we were intimate in those days, are as it were dead
to us! and yet they are alive, but for a long time we have not thought of them--of them whom
we then thought to hold fast for ages, and with whom we were to share sorrow and joy.

Here the withered oak-leaf in the book reminded the owner of the friend, the school-fellow,
who was to be a friend for life: he fastened the green leaf in the student's cap in the green
wood, when the bond was made "for life:" where does he live now? The leaf is preserved, but
the friendship has perished! And here is a foreign hothouse plant, too delicate for the gardens
of the North; the leaves almost seem to keep their fragrance still. She gave it to him, the
young lady in the nobleman's garden. Here is the water rose, which he plucked himself, and
moistened with salt tears--the roses of the sweet waters. And here is a nettle--what tale may
its leaves have to tell? What were his thoughts when he plucked it and kept it? Here is a lily
of the valley, from the solitudes of the forest. Here's an evergreen from the flower-pot of
the tavern; and here's a naked sharp blade of grass.

The blooming elder waves its fresh fragrant blossoms over the dead man's head, and the swallow
flies past again. "Pee-wit! pee-wit!" And now the men come with nails and hammers, and the
lid is laid over the dead man, that his head may rest upon the dumb book--vanished and scattered!

THE JEWISH GIRL.

Among the children in a charity school sat a little Jewish girl. She was a good, intelligent
child, the quickest in all the school; but she had to be excluded from one lesson, for she
was not allowed to take part in the scripture-lesson, for it was a Christian school.

In that hour the girl was allowed to open the geography book, or to do her sum for the next
day; but that was soon done; and when she had mastered her lesson in geography, the book indeed
remained open before her, but the little one read no more in it; she listened silently to the
words of the Christian teacher, who soon became aware that she was listening more intently
than almost any of the other children.

"Read your book, Sara," the teacher said, in mild reproof; but her dark beaming eye remained
fixed upon him; and once when he addressed a question to her, she knew how to answer better
than any of the others could have done. She had heard and understood, and had kept his words
in her heart.

When her father, a poor honest man, first brought the girl to the school, he had stipulated
that she should be excluded from the lessons on the Christian faith. But it would have caused
disturbance, and perhaps might have awakened discontent in the minds of the others, if she
had been sent from the room during the hours in question, and consequently she stayed; but
this could not go on any longer.

The teacher betook himself to the father, and exhorted him either to remove his daughter from
the school, or to consent that Sara should become a Christian.

"I can no longer be a silent spectator of the gleaming eyes of the child, and of her deep and
earnest longing for the words of the Gospel," said the teacher.

Then the father burst into tears.

"I know but little of the commandment given to my fathers," he said; "but Sara's mother was
steadfast in the faith, a true daughter of Israel, and I vowed to her as she lay dying that
our child should never be baptized. I must keep my vow, for it is even as a covenant with God
Himself."

And accordingly the little Jewish maiden quitted the Christian school.

Years have rolled on.

In one of the smallest provincial towns there dwelt, as a servant in a humble household, a
maiden who held the Mosaic faith. Her hair was black as ebony, her eye dark as night, and yet
full of splendour and light, as is usual with the daughters of Israel. It was Sara. The expression
in the countenance of the now grown-up maiden was still that of the child sitting upon the
school-room bench and listening with thoughtful eyes to the words of the Christian teacher.

Every Sunday there pealed from the church the sounds of the organ and the song of the congregation.
The strains penetrated into the house where the Jewish girl, industrious and faithful in all
things, stood at her work.

"Thou shalt keep holy the Sabbath-day," said a voice within her, the voice of the Law; but
her Sabbath-day was a working day among the Christians, and that seemed unfortunate to her.
But then the thought arose in her soul: "Doth God reckon by days and hours?" And when this
thought grew strong within her, it seemed a comfort that on the Sunday of the Christians the
hour of prayer remained undisturbed; and when the sound of the organ and the songs of the congregation
sounded across to her as she stood in the kitchen at her work, then even that place seemed
to become a sacred one to her. Then she would read in the Old Testament, the treasure and comfort
of her people, and it was only in this one she could read; for she kept faithfully in the depths
of her heart the words the teacher had spoken when she left the school, and the promise her
father had given to her dying mother, that she should never receive Christian baptism, or deny
the faith of her ancestors. The New Testament was to be a sealed book to her; and yet she knew
much of it, and the Gospel echoed faintly among the recollections of her youth.

One evening she was sitting in a corner of the living-room. Her master was reading aloud; and
she might listen to him, for it was not the Gospel that he read, but an old story-book, therefore
she might stay. The faithful wife of the knight at home parted with all her jewels, and pledged
castle and land. The knight's friends amassed large sums, for the ransom demanded was almost
unattainably high: but it was collected at last, and the knight was freed from servitude and
misery. Sick and exhausted, he reached his home. But soon another summons came to war against
the foes of Christianity: the knight heard the cry, and he could stay no longer, for he had
neither peace nor rest. He caused himself to be lifted on his war-horse; and the blood came
back to his cheek, his strength appeared to return, and he went forth to battle and to victory.
The very same pasha who had yoked him to the plough became his prisoner, and was dragged to
his castle. But not an hour had passed when the knight stood before the captive pasha, and
said to him:

"What dost thou suppose awaiteth thee?"

"I know it," replied the Turk. "Retribution."

"Yes, the retribution of the Christian!" resumed the knight. "The doctrine of Christ commands
us to forgive our enemies, and to love our fellow-man, for it teaches us that God is love.
Depart in peace, depart to thy home: I will restore thee to thy dear ones; but in future be
mild and merciful to all who are unfortunate."

Then the prisoner broke out into tears, and exclaimed:

"How could I believe in the possibility of such mercy! Misery and torment seemed to await me,
they seemed inevitable; therefore I took poison, which I secretly carried about me, and in
a few hours its effects will slay me. I must die--there is no remedy! But before I die, do
thou expound to me the teaching which includes so great a measure of love and mercy, for it
is great and godlike! Grant me to hear this teaching, and to die a Christian!" And his prayer
was fulfilled.

That was the legend which the master read out of the old story-book. All the audience listened
with sympathy and pleasure; but Sara, the Jewish girl, sitting alone in her corner, listened
with a burning heart; great tears came into her gleaming black eyes, and she sat there with
a gentle and lowly spirit as she had once sat on the school bench, and felt the grandeur of
the Gospel; and the tears rolled down over her cheeks.

But again the dying words of her mother rose up within her:

"Let not my daughter become a Christian," the voice cried; and together with it arose the word
of the Law: "Thou shalt honour thy father and thy mother."

"I am not admitted into the community of the Christians," she said; "they abuse me for being
a Jew girl--our neighbour's boys hooted me last Sunday, when I stood at the open church-door,
and looked in at the flaming candles on the altar, and listened to the song of the congregation.
Ever since I sat upon the school bench I have felt the force of Christianity, a force like
that of a sunbeam, which streams into my soul, however firmly I may shut my eyes against it.
But I will not pain thee in thy grave, O my mother, I will not be unfaithful to the oath of
my father, I will not read the Bible of the Christians. I have the religion of my people, and
to that will I hold!"

And years rolled on again.

The master died. His widow fell into poverty; and the servant girl was to be dismissed. But
Sara refused to leave the house: she became the staff in time of trouble, and kept the household
together, working till late in the night to earn the daily bread through the labour of her
hands; for no relative came forward to assist the family, and the widow become weaker every
day, and lay for months together on the bed of sickness. Sara worked hard, and in the intervals
sat kindly ministering by the sick-bed: she was gentle and pious, an angel of blessing in the
poverty-stricken house.

"Yonder on the table lies the Bible," said the sick woman to Sara. "Read me something from
it, for the night appears to be so long--oh, so long!--and my soul thirsts for the word of
the Lord."

And Sara bowed her head.

"O my mother," she whispered to herself; "thy child may not receive the baptism of the Christians,
or be admitted into the congregation--thou hast willed it so, and I shall respect thy command:
we will remain in union together here on earth; but beyond this earth there is a higher union,
even union in God! He will be at our side, and lead us through the valley of death. It is He
that descendeth upon the earth when it is athirst, and covers it with fruitfulness. I understand
it--I know not how I came to learn the truth; but it is through Him, through Christ!"

And she started as she pronounced the sacred name, and there came upon her a baptism as of
flames of fire, and her frame shook, and her limbs tottered so that she sank down fainting,
weaker even than the sick woman by whose couch she had watched.

"Poor Sara!" said the people; "she is overcome with night watching and toil!"

They carried her out into the hospital for the sick poor. There she died; and from thence they
carried her to the grave, but not to the churchyard of the Christians, for yonder was no room
for the Jewish girl; outside, by the wall, her grave was dug.

But God's sun, that shines upon the graves of the Christians, throws its beams also upon the
grave of the Jewish girl beyond the wall; and when the psalms are sung in the churchyard of
the Christians, they echo likewise over her lonely resting-place; and she who sleeps beneath
is included in the call to the resurrection, in the name of Him who spake to his disciples:

"John baptized you with water, but I will baptize you with the Holy Ghost!"

THE OLD GRAVESTONE

In a little provincial town, in the time of the year when people say "the evenings are drawing
in," there was one evening quite a social gathering in the home of a father of a family. The
weather was still mild and warm. The lamp gleamed on the table; the long curtains hung down
in folds before the open windows, by which stood many flower-pots; and outside, beneath the
dark blue sky, was the most beautiful moonshine. But they were not talking about this. My father
bought the latter, and they were cut in two to be used as paving-stones; but that old stone
was kept back, and has been lying in the courtyard ever since."

"One can very well see that it is a gravestone," observed the eldest of the children; "we can
still decipher on it an hour-glass and a piece of an angel; but the inscription which stood
below it is quite effaced, except that you may read the name of Preben, and a great S close
behind it, and a little farther down the name of Martha. But nothing more can be distinguished,
and even that is only plain when it has been raining, or when we have washed the stone.

"On my word, that must be the gravestone of Preben Schwane and his wife!"

These words were spoken by an old man; so old, that he might well have been the grandfather
of all who were present in the room.

"Yes, they were one of the last pairs that were buried in the old churchyard of the convent.
They were an honest old couple. I can remember them from the days of my boyhood. Every one
knew them, and every one esteemed them. They were the oldest pair here in the town. The people
declared that they had more than a tubful of gold; and yet they went about very plainly dressed,
in the coarsest stuffs, but always with splendidly clean linen. They were a fine old pair,
Preben and Martha! When both of them sat on the bench at the top of the steep stone stairs
in front of the house, with the old linden tree spreading its branches above them, and nodded
at one in their kind gentle way, it seemed quite to do one good. They were very kind to the
poor; they fed them and clothed them; and there was judgment in their benevolence and true
Christianity. The old woman died first: that day is still quite clear before my mind. I was
a little boy, and had accompanied my father over there, and we were just there when she fell
asleep. The old man was very much moved, and wept like a child. The corpse lay in the room
next to the one where we sat; and he spoke to my father and to a few neighbours who were there,
and said how lonely it would be now in his house, and how good and faithful she (his dead wife)
had been, how many years they had wandered together through life, and how it had come about
that they came to know each other and to fall in love. And then he talked of the wedding-day,
and his eyes gleamed; he seemed to talk himself back into that time of joy. And yet she was
lying in the next room--dead--an old woman; and he was an old man, speaking of the past days
of hope! Yes, yes, thus it is! Then I was but a child, and now I am old--as old as Preben Schwane
was then. Time passes away, and all things change. I can very well remember the day when she
was buried, and how Preben Schwane walked close behind the coffin. They did not leave behind
them anything like the wealth people had attributed to them: what there was went to families
distantly related to them--to people of whom until then one had known nothing. The high-road
now goes over the resting-place of old Preben and his wife. No one thinks of them any more."

And the old man who had told all this shook his head scornfully.

"Forgotten! Everything will be forgotten!" he said. All that the boy had heard about old Preben
and his wife seemed concentrated in the stone; and he gazed at it, and looked at the pure bright
moon and up into the clear air, and it seemed as though the countenance of the Creator was
beaming over His world.

"Forgotten! Everything will be forgotten!" was repeated in the room.

But in that moment an invisible angel kissed the boy's forehead, and whispered to him:

"Preserve the seed-corn that has been entrusted to thee, that it may bear fruit. Guard it well!
Through thee, my child, the obliterated inscription on the old tombstone shall be chronicled
in golden letters to future generations! The old pair shall wander again arm-in-arm through
the streets, and smile, and sit with their fresh healthy faces under the lime tree on the bench
by the steep stairs, and nod at rich and poor. The seed-corn of this hour shall ripen in the
course of time to a blooming poem. The beautiful and the good shall not be forgotten; it shall
live on in legend and in song."

THE OLD BACHELOR'S NIGHTCAP.

There is a street in Copenhagen that has this strange name--"Hysken Sträde." Whence comes this
name, and what is its meaning? It is said to be German; but injustice has been done to the
Germans in this matter, for it would have to be "Häuschen," and not "Hysken." For here stood,
once upon a time, and indeed for a great many years, a few little houses, which were principally
nothing more than wooden booths, just as we see now in the market-places at fair-time. They
were, perhaps, a little larger, and had windows; but the panes consisted of horn or bladder,
for glass was then too expensive to be used in every house. But then we are speaking of a long
time ago--so long since, that grandfather and great-grandfather, when they talked about them,
used to speak of them as "the old times"--in fact, it is several centuries ago. The German
beer was good, and there were many kinds of it, as there were, for instance, Bremen, and Prussinger,
and Sous beer, and even Brunswick mumm; and quantities of spices were sold--saffron, and aniseed,
and ginger, and especially pepper. Yes, pepper was the chief article here, and so it happened
that the German clerks got the nickname "pepper gentry;" and there was a condition made with
them in Lubeck and in Bremen, that they would not marry at Copenhagen, and many of them became
very old.

The "pepper gentleman" becomes a butt for ridicule, and is continually told that he ought to
put on his nightcap, and draw it down over his eyes, and do nothing but sleep. The boys sing,

    "Cut, cut wood!
    Poor bachelor so good.
    Go, take your nightcap, go to rest,
    For 'tis the nightcap suits you best!"

Yes, that's what they sing about the "pepperer"--thus they make game of the poor bachelor and
his nightcap, and turn it into ridicule, just because they know very little about either. Ah,
that kind of nightcap no one should wish to earn! And why not?--We shall hear.

In the old times the "Housekin Street" was not paved, and the people stumbled out of one hole
into another, as in a neglected bye-way; and it was narrow too. The booths leaned side by side,
and stood so close together that in the summer time a sail was often stretched from one booth
to its opposite neighbour, on which occasion the fragrance of pepper, saffron, and ginger became
doubly powerful. Behind the counters young men were seldom seen. The clerks were generally
old boys; but they did not look like what we should fancy them, namely, with wig, and nightcap,
and plush small-clothes, and with waistcoat and coat buttoned up to the chin. No, grandfather's
great-grandfather may look like that, and has been thus portrayed, but the "pepper gentry"
had no superfluous means, and accordingly did not have their portraits taken; though, indeed,
it would be interesting now to have a picture of one of them, as he stood behind the counter
or went to church on holy days. His hat was high-crowned and broad-brimmed, and sometimes one
of the youngest clerks would mount a feather. In their girdles they sported a dinner-knife
and spoon, and a larger knife was placed there also for the defence of the owner; and this
weapon was often very necessary. Just so was Anthony, one of the oldest clerks, clad on high
days and holy days, except that, instead of a high-crowned hat, he wore a low bonnet, and under
it a knitted cap (a regular nightcap), to which he had grown so accustomed that it was always
on his head; and he had two of them--nightcaps, of course. The old fellow was a subject for
a painter. He was as thin as a lath, had wrinkles clustering round his eyes and mouth, and
long bony fingers, and bushy grey eyebrows: over the left eye hung quite a tuft of hair, and
that did not look very handsome, though it made him very noticeable. People knew that he came
from Bremen; but that was not his native place, though his master lived there. His own native
place was in Thuringia, the town of Eisenach, close by the Wartburg. Old Anthony did not speak
much of this, but he thought of it all the more.

The old clerks of the Häuschen Street did not often come together. Each one remained in his
booth, which was closed early in the evening; and then it looked dark enough in the street:
only a faint glimmer of light forced its way through the little horn-pane in the roof; and
in the booth sat, generally on his bed, the old bachelor, his German hymn-book in his hand,
singing an evening psalm in a low voice; or he went about in the booth till late into the night,
and busied himself about all sorts of things. It was certainly not an amusing life. To be a
stranger in a strange land is a bitter lot: nobody cares for you, unless you happen to get
in anybody's way.

Often when it was dark night outside, with snow and rain, the place looked very gloomy and
lonely. No lamps were to be seen, with the exception of one solitary light hanging before the
picture of the Virgin that was fastened against the wall. The plash of the water against the
neighbouring rampart at the castle wharf could be plainly heard. Such evenings are long and
dreary, unless people devise some employment for themselves. There is not always packing or
unpacking to do, nor can the scales be polished or paper bags be made continually; and, failing
these, people should devise other employment for themselves. And that is just what old Anthony
did; for he used to mend his clothes and put pieces on his boots. When he at last sought his
couch, he used from habit to keep his nightcap on. He drew it down a little closer; but soon
he would push it up again, to see if the light had been properly extinguished. He would touch
it, press the wick together, and then lie down on the other side, and draw his nightcap down
again; but then a doubt would come upon him, if every coal in the little fire-pan below had
been properly deadened and put out--a tiny spark might have been left burning, and might set
fire to something and cause damage. And therefore he rose from his bed, and crept down the
ladder, for it could scarcely be called a stair. And when he came to the fire-pan not a spark
was to be discovered, and he might just go back again. But often, when he had gone half of
the way back, it would occur to him that the shutters might not be securely fastened; yes,
then his thin legs must carry him downstairs once more. He was cold, and his teeth chattered
in his mouth when he crept back again to bed; for the cold seems to become doubly severe when
it knows it cannot stay much longer. He drew up the coverlet closer around him, and pulled
down the nightcap lower over his brows, and turned his thoughts away from trade and from the
labours of the day. But that did not procure him agreeable entertainment; for now old thoughts
came and put up their curtains, and these curtains have sometimes pins in them, with which
one pricks oneself, and one cries out "Oh!" and they prick into one's flesh and burn so, that
the tears sometimes come into one's eyes; and that often happened to old Anthony--hot tears.
The largest pearls streamed forth, and fell on the coverlet or on the floor, and then they
sounded as if one of his heart-strings had broken. The pictures did not come up in the order
in which the scenes had occurred in reality, for very often the most painful would come together;
then again the most joyful would come, but these had the deepest shadows of all.

The beech woods of Denmark are acknowledged to be fine, but the woods of Thuringia arose far
more beautiful in the eyes of Anthony. More mighty and more venerable seemed to him the old
oaks around the proud knightly castle, where the creeping plants hung down over the stony blocks
of the rock; sweeter there bloomed the flowers of the apple tree than in the Danish land. This
he remembered very vividly. A glittering tear rolled down over his cheek; and in this tear
he could plainly see two children playing--a boy and a girl. The boy had red cheeks, and yellow
curling hair, and honest blue eyes. He was the son of the merchant Anthony--it was himself.
The little girl had brown eyes and black hair, and had a bright clever look. She was the burgomaster's
daughter Molly.

"Then you shall see," she said, "what will come out. It will be something you don't at all
expect. A whole apple tree will come out, but not directly."

"Now, you must not take it out to-morrow to see if it has struck root," said Molly. "That won't
do at all. I did it with my flowers; but only twice. I wanted to see if they were growing--and
I didn't know any better then--and the plants withered." At length, however, the spring came,
and the sun shone warm again; and two little green leaves came up out of the pot.

"Those are for me and Molly," said the boy. "That's beautiful--that's marvellously beautiful!"

Soon a third leaf made its appearance. Whom did that represent? Yes, and there came another,
and yet another. Day by day and week by week they grew larger, and the plant began to take
the form of a real tree. And all this was now mirrored in a single tear, which was wiped away
and disappeared; but it might come again from its source in the heart of old Anthony.

In the neighbourhood of Eisenach a row of stony mountains rises up. One of these mountains
is round in outline, and lifts itself above the rest, naked and without tree, bush, or grass.
It is called the Venus Mount. In this mountain dwells Lady Venus, one of the deities of the
heathen times. She is also called Lady Holle; and every child in and around Eisenach has heard
about her.

"I may kiss him!" she would say proudly.

That was her vanity; and Anthony submitted, and thought no more about it.

How charming and how teasing Molly was! It was said that Lady Holle in the mountain was beautiful
also, but that her beauty was like that of a tempting fiend. The greatest beauty and grace
was possessed by Saint Elizabeth, the patron of the country, the pious Princess of Thuringia,
whose good actions have been immortalized in many places in legends and stories. And the tree
developed itself strongly, so that it could resist the winter. And it seemed as if, after the
rigour of the cold season was past, it put forth blossoms in spring for very joy. In the autumn
it brought two apples--one for Molly and one for Anthony. It could not well have produced less.

The tree had grown apace, and Molly grew like the tree. She was as fresh as an apple-blossom;
but Anthony was not long to behold this flower.

And Molly wept, and Anthony wept; but all their tears melted into one, and this tear had the
rosy, charming hue of joy. For Molly told him she loved him--loved him more than all the splendours
of Weimar.

One, two, three years went by, and during this period two letters were received. One came by
a carrier, and a traveller brought the other. The way was long and difficult, and passed through
many windings by towns and villages.

Often had Molly and Anthony heard of Tristram and Iseult, and often had the boy applied the
story to himself and Molly, though the name Tristram was said to mean "born in tribulation,"
and that did not apply to Anthony, nor would he ever be able to think, like Tristram, "She
has forgotten me." But, indeed, Iseult did not forget her faithful knight; and when both were
laid to rest in the earth, one on each side of the church, the linden trees grew from their
graves over the church roof, and there encountered each other in bloom. Anthony thought that
was beautiful, but mournful; but it could not become mournful between him and Molly: and he
whistled a song of the old minne-singer, Walter of the Vogelverde:

    "Under the lindens
    Upon the heath."

And especially that passage appeared charming to him:

    "From the forest, down in the vale,
    Sang her sweet song the nightingale."

This song was often in his mouth, and he sang and whistled it in the moonlight nights, when
he rode along the deep hollow way on horseback to get to Weimar and visit Molly. He wished
to come unexpectedly, and he came unexpectedly.

He was made welcome with full goblets of wine, with jovial company, fine company, and a pretty
room and a good bed were provided for him; and yet his reception was not what he had dreamt
and fancied it would be. He could not understand himself--he could not understand the others:
but we can understand it. One may be admitted into a house and associate with a family without
becoming one of them. One may converse together as one would converse in a post-carriage, and
know one another as people know each other on a journey, each incommoding the other and wishing
that either oneself or the good neighbour were away. Yes, this was the kind of thing Anthony felt.

"I am an honest girl," said Molly; "and I myself will tell you what it is. Much has changed
since we were children together--changed inwardly and outwardly. Habit and will have no power
over our hearts. Anthony, I should not like to have an enemy in you, now that I shall soon
be far away from here. Believe me, I entertain the best wishes for you; but to feel for you
what I know now one may feel for a man, has never been the case with me. You must reconcile
yourself to this. Farewell, Anthony!"

But the apple tree was not broken down, though he himself was broken down, and bound on a couch
by fever. What was it that raised him up again? A medicine was presented to him which had strength
to do this--the bitterest of medicines, that shakes up body and spirit together. Anthony's
father ceased to be the richest of merchants. Heavy days--days of trial--were at the door;
misfortune came rolling into the house like great waves of the sea. The father became a poor
man. Sorrow and suffering took away his strength.

Anthony went to Bremen. There he learned what poverty and hard living meant; and these sometimes
make the heart hard, and sometimes soften it, even too much.

How different the world was, and how different the people were from what he had supposed them
to be in his childhood! What were the minne-singer's songs to him now?--an echo, a vanishing
sound! Yes, that is what he thought sometimes; but again the songs would sound in his soul,
and his heart became gentle.

"God's will is best!" he would say then. "It was well that I was not permitted to keep Molly's
heart--that she did not remain true to me. What would it have led to now, when fortune has
turned away from me? She quitted me before she knew of this loss of prosperity, or had any
notion of what awaited me. That was a mercy of Providence towards me. Everything has happened
for the best. It was not her fault--and I have been so bitter, and have shown so much rancour
towards her!"

And years went by. Anthony's father was dead, and strangers lived in the old house. But Anthony
was destined to see it again. His rich employer sent him on commercial journeys, and his duty
led him into his native town of Eisenach. The old Wartburg stood unchanged on the mountain,
with "the monk and the nun" hewn out in stone. The great oaks gave to the scene the outlines
it had possessed in his childish days. The Venus Mount glimmered grey and naked over the valley.
He would have been glad to cry, "Lady Holle, Lady Holle, unlock the door, and I shall enter
and remain in my native earth!"

That was a sinful thought, and he blessed himself to drive it away. Then a little bird out
of the thicket sang clearly, and the old minne-song came into his mind:

    "From the forest, down in the vale,
    Sang her sweet song the nightingale."

And here in the town of his childhood, which he thus saw again through tears, much came back
into his remembrance. The paternal house stood as in the old times; but the garden was altered,
and a field-path led over a portion of the old ground, and the apple tree that he had not broken
down stood there, but outside the garden, on the farther side of the path. But the sun threw
its rays on the apple tree as in the old days, the dew descended gently upon it as then, and
it bore such a burden of fruit that the branches were bent down towards the earth.

"That flourishes!" he said. "The tree can grow!"

Nevertheless, one of the branches of the tree was broken. Mischievous hands had torn it down
towards the ground; for now the tree stood by the public way.

"They break its blossoms off without a feeling of thankfulness--they steal its fruit and break
the branches. One might say of the tree as has been said of some men--'It was not sung at his
cradle that it should come thus.' How brightly its history began, and what has it come to?
Forsaken and forgotten--a garden tree by the hedge, in the field, and on the public way! There
it stands unprotected, plundered, and broken! It has certainly not died, but in the course
of years the number of blossoms will diminish; at last the fruit will cease altogether; and
at last--at last all will be over!"

Such were Anthony's thoughts under the tree; such were his thoughts during many a night in
the lonely chamber of the wooden house in the distant land--in the Häuschen Street in Copenhagen,
whither his rich employer, the Bremen merchant, had sent him, first making it a condition that
he should not marry.

"Marry! Ha, ha!" he laughed bitterly to himself.

Winter had set in early; it was freezing hard. Without, a snow-storm was raging, so that every
one who could do so remained at home; thus, too, it happened that those who lived opposite
to Anthony did not notice that for two days his house had not been unlocked, and that he did
not show himself; for who would go out unnecessarily in such weather?

They were grey, gloomy days; and in the house, whose windows were not of glass, twilight only
alternated with dark night. Old Anthony had not left his bed during the two days, for he had
not the strength to rise; he had for a long time felt in his limbs the hardness of the weather.
Forsaken by all, lay the old bachelor, unable to help himself. He could scarcely reach the
water-jug that he had placed by his bedside, and the last drop it contained had been consumed.
It was not fever, nor sickness, but old age that had struck him down. Up yonder, where his
couch was placed, he was overshadowed as it were by continual night. A little spider, which,
however, he could not see, busily and cheerfully span its web around him, as if it were weaving
a little crape banner that should wave when the old man closed his eyes.

The time was very slow, and long, and dreary. Tears he had none to shed, nor did he feel pain.
The thought of Molly never came into his mind. He felt as if the world and its noise concerned
him no longer--as if he were lying outside the world, and no one were thinking of him. For
a moment he felt a sensation of hunger--of thirst. Yes, he felt them both. But nobody came
to tend him--nobody. Her pious deeds shone bright upon his soul. He thought of her as she had
come to distribute words of comfort, binding up the wounds of the afflicted, giving meat to
the hungry; though her stern husband had chidden her for it. He thought of the legend told
of her, how she had been carrying the full basket containing food and wine, when her husband,
who watched her footsteps, came forth and asked angrily what she was carrying, whereupon she
answered, in fear and trembling, that the basket contained roses which she had plucked in the
garden; how he had torn away the white cloth from the basket, and a miracle had been performed
for the pious lady; for bread, and wine, and everything in the basket had been transformed
into roses!

Thus the saint's memory dwelt in Anthony's quiet mind; thus she stood bodily before his downcast
face, before his warehouse in the simple booth in the Danish land. He uncovered his head, and
looked into her gentle eyes, and everything around him was beautiful and roseate. Yes, the
roses seemed to unfold themselves in fragrance. There came to him a sweet, peculiar odour of
apples, and he saw a blooming apple tree, which spread its branches above him--it was the tree
which Molly and he had planted together.

And the tree strewed down its fragrant leaves upon him, cooling his burning brow. The leaves
fell upon his parched lips, and were like strengthening bread and wine; and they fell upon
his breast, and he felt reassured and calm, and inclined to sleep peacefully.

"Now I shall sleep," he whispered to himself. "Sleep is refreshing. To-morrow I shall be upon
my feet again, and strong and well--glorious, wonderful! That apple tree, planted in true affection,
now stands before me in heavenly radiance----"

And he slept.

The day afterwards--it was the third day that his shop had remained closed--the snow-storm
had ceased, and a neighbour from the opposite house came over towards the booth where dwelt
old Anthony, who had not yet shown himself. Anthony lay stretched upon his bed--dead--with
his old cap clutched tightly in his two hands! They did not put that cap on his head in his
coffin, for he had a new white one.

Where were now the tears that he had wept? What had become of the pearls? They remained in
the nightcap--and the true ones do not come out in the wash--they were preserved in the nightcap,
and in time forgotten; but the old thoughts and the old dreams still remained in the "bachelor's
nightcap." Don't wish for such a cap for yourself. It would make your forehead very hot, would
make your pulse beat feverishly, and conjure up dreams which appear like reality. The first
who wore that identical cap afterwards felt all that at once, though it was half a century
afterwards; and that man was the burgomaster himself, who, with his wife and eleven children,
was well and firmly established, and had amassed a very tolerable amount of wealth. He was
immediately seized with dreams of unfortunate love, of bankruptcy, and of heavy times.

"Hallo! how the nightcap burns!" he cried out, and tore it from his head.

And a pearl rolled out, and another, and another, and they sounded and glittered.

"This must be gout," said the burgomaster. "Something dazzles my eyes!"

They were tears, shed half a century before by old Anthony from Eisenach.

Every one who afterwards put that nightcap upon his head had visions and dreams which excited
him not a little. His own history was changed into that of Anthony, and became a story; in
fact, many stories. But some one else may tell them. We have told the first. And our last word
is--don't wish for "The Old Bachelor's Nightcap."

THE MARSH KING'S DAUGHTER.

The storks tell their little ones very many stories, all of the moor and the marsh. These stories
are generally adapted to the age and capacity of the hearers. The youngest are content if they
are told "Kribble-krabble, plurre-murre" as a story, and find it charming; but the older ones
want something with a deeper meaning, or at any rate something relating to the family. Of the
two oldest and longest stories that have been preserved among the storks, we are only acquainted
with one, namely, that of Moses, who was exposed by his mother on the banks of the Nile, and
whom the king's daughter found, and who afterwards became a great man and a prophet. That history
is very well known.

The second is not known yet, perhaps, because it is quite an inland story. It has been handed
down from mouth to mouth, from stork-mamma to stork-mamma, for thousands of years, and each
of them has told it better and better; and now we'll tell it best of all.

The first stork pair who told the story had their summer residence on the wooden house of the
Viking, which lay by the wild moor in Wendsyssel; that is to say, if we are to speak out of
the abundance of our knowledge, hard by the great moor in the circle of Hjörring, high up by
the Skagen, the northern point of Jutland. The wilderness there is still a great wide moor-heath,
about which we can read in the official description of districts. It is certainly rightly called
the "wild moor;" and one can easily think how dreary and lonely it must have been, and how
much marsh and lake there was here a thousand years ago. Yes, in detail, exactly the same things
were seen then that may yet be beheld. The reeds had the same height, and bore the same kind
of long leaves and bluish-brown feathery plumes that they bear now; the birch stood there,
with its white bark and its fine loosely-hanging leaves, just as now; and as regards the living
creatures that dwelt here--why, the fly wore its gauzy dress of the same cut that it wears
now; and the favourite colours of the stork were white picked out with black, and red stockings.
The people certainly wore coats of a different cut to those they now wear; but whoever stepped
out on the shaking moorland, be he huntsman or follower, master or servant, met with the same
fate a thousand years ago that he would meet with to-day. He sank and went down to the "marsh
king," as they called him, who ruled below in the great moorland empire. They also called him
"gungel king;" but we like the name "marsh king" better, and by that we'll call him, as the
storks did. Very little is known of the marsh king's rule; but perhaps that is a good thing.

In the neighbourhood of the moorland, hard by the great arm of the German Ocean and the Cattegat,
which is called the Lümfjorden, lay the wooden house of the Viking, with its stone water-tight
cellars, with its tower and its three projecting stories. On the roof the stork had built his
nest; and stork-mamma there hatched the eggs, and felt sure that her hatching would come to
something.

One evening stork-papa stayed out very long; and when he came home he looked very bustling
and important.

"I've something very terrible to tell you," he said to the stork-mamma.

"Let that be," she replied. "Remember that I'm hatching the eggs, and you might agitate me,
and I might do them a mischief."

"You must know it," he continued. "She has arrived here--the daughter of our host in Egypt--she
has dared to undertake the journey here--and she's gone!"

"She who came from the race of the fairies? Oh, tell me all about it! You know I can't bear
to be kept long in suspense when I'm hatching eggs."

"You see, mother, she believed in what the doctor said, and you told me true. She believed
that the moor flowers would bring healing to her sick father, and she has flown here in swan's
plumage, in company with the other swan-princesses, who come to the North every year to renew
their youth. She has come here, and she is gone!"

"You are much too long-winded!" exclaimed the stork-mamma, "and the eggs might catch cold.
I can't bear being kept in such suspense!"

"I have kept watch," said the stork-papa; "and to-night, when I went into the reeds--there
where the marsh ground will bear me--three swans came. Something in their flight seemed to
say to me, 'Look out! That's not altogether swan; it's only swan's feathers!' Yes, mother,
you have a feeling of intuition just as I have; you know whether a thing is right or wrong."

"Yes, certainly," she replied; "but tell me about the princess. I'm sick of hearing of the
swan's feathers."

"Well, you know that in the middle of the moor there is something like a lake," continued stork-papa.
"You can see one corner of it if you raise yourself a little. There, by the reeds and the green
mud, lay a great alder stump; and on this the three swans sat, flapping their wings and looking
about them. One of them threw off her plumage, and I immediately recognized her as our house
princess from Egypt! There she sat, with no covering but her long black hair. I heard her tell
the others to pay good heed to the swan's plumage, while she dived down into the water to pluck
the flowers which she fancied she saw growing there. The others nodded, and picked up the empty
feather dress and took care of it. 'I wonder what they will do with it?' thought I; and perhaps
she asked herself the same question. If so, she got an answer--a very practical answer--for
the two rose up and flew away with her swan's plumage. 'Do thou dive down,' they cried; 'thou
shalt never see Egypt again! Remain thou here in the moor!' And so saying, they tore the swan's
plumage into a thousand pieces, so that the feathers whirled about like a snow-storm; and away
they flew--the two faithless princesses!"

"Why, that is terrible!" said stork-mamma. I myself saw it--how the stump of the tree turned
round, and ceased to be a tree stump; long thin branches grew forth from it like arms. Then
the poor child was terribly frightened, and sprang up to flee away. She hurried across to the
green slimy ground; but that cannot even carry me, much less her. Now the princess is buried
in the wild moor, and never more will she bear away a flower to Egypt. Your heart would have
burst, mother, if you had seen it."

"You ought not to tell me anything of the kind at such a time as this," said stork-mamma; "the
eggs might suffer by it. The princess will find some way of escape; some one will come to help
her. If it had been you or I, or one of our people, it would certainly have been all over with us."

"But I shall go and look every day to see if anything happens," said stork-papa.

And he was as good as his word.

A long time had passed, when at last he saw a green stalk shooting up out of the deep moor-ground.

"But she cannot possibly be left lying there," thought stork-papa; "and in my nest there are
so many persons already. I shall fly with the child to the Viking's wife. What rejoicing there
will be yonder!"

And the stork lifted the little girl out of the flower-cup, flew to the wooden house, picked
a hole with his beak in the bladder-covered window, laid the charming child on the bosom of
the Viking's wife, and then hurried up to the stork-mamma, and told her what he had seen and
done; and the little storks listened to the story, for they were big enough to do so now.

"So you see," he concluded, "the princess is not dead, for she must have sent the little one
up here; and now that is provided for too."

"Ah, I said it would be so, from the very beginning!" said the stork-mamma; "but now think
a little of your own family. Our travelling time is drawing on; sometimes I feel quite restless
in my wings already. The cuckoo and the nightingale have started; and I heard the quails saying
that they were going too, so soon as the wind was favourable. Our young ones will behave well
at the exercising, or I am much deceived in them."

The Viking's wife was extremely glad when she woke next morning and found the charming infant
lying in her arms. She kissed and caressed it; but it cried violently, and struggled with its
arms and legs, and did not seem rejoiced at all. At length it cried itself to sleep; and as
it lay there still and tranquil, it looked exceedingly beautiful. The Viking's wife was in
high glee: she felt light in body and soul; her heart leapt within her; and it seemed to her
as if her husband and his warriors, who were absent, must return quite as suddenly and unexpectedly
as the little one had come.

Therefore she and the whole household had enough to do in preparing everything for the reception
of her lord. The long coloured curtains of tapestry, which she and her maids had worked, and
on which they had woven pictures of their idols, Odin, Thor, and Freya, were hung up; the slaves
polished the old shields, that served as ornaments; and cushions were placed on the benches,
and dry wood laid on the fireplace in the midst of the hall, so that the flame might be fanned
up at a moment's notice. The Viking's wife herself assisted in the work, so that towards evening
she was very tired, and went to sleep quickly and lightly.

When she awoke towards morning, she was violently alarmed, for the infant had vanished! She
sprang from her couch, lighted a pine-torch, and searched all round about; and, behold, in
the part of the bed where she had stretched her feet, lay, not the child, but a great ugly
frog! Once more she looked round the room--the frog uttered a low, wailing croak, and she started,
sprang from the couch, and ran to the window and opened it. At that moment the sun shone forth,
and flung its beams through the window on the couch and on the great frog; and suddenly it
appeared as though the frog's great mouth contracted and became small and red, and its limbs
moved and stretched and became beautifully symmetrical, and it was no longer an ugly frog which
lay there, but her pretty child!

"What is this?" she said. "Have I had a bad dream? Is it not my own lovely cherub lying there?"

And she kissed and hugged it; but the child struggled and fought like a little wild cat.

Not on this day nor on the morrow did the Viking return, although he certainly was on his way
home; but the wind was against him, for it blew towards the south, favourably for the storks.
A good wind for one is a contrary wind for another.

When one or two more days and nights had gone, the Viking's wife clearly understood how the
case was with her child, that a terrible power of sorcery was upon it. By day it was charming
as an angel of light, though it had a wild, savage temper; but at night it became an ugly frog,
quiet and mournful, with sorrowful eyes. Here were two natures changing inwardly as well as
outwardly with the sunlight. The reason of this was that by day the child had the form of its
mother, but the disposition of its father; while, on the contrary, at night the paternal descent
became manifest in its bodily appearance, though the mind and heart of the mother then became
dominant in the child. Who might be able to loosen this charm that wicked sorcery had worked?

The wife of the Viking lived in care and sorrow about it; and yet her heart yearned towards
the little creature, of whose condition she felt she should not dare tell her husband on his
return; for he would probably, according to the custom which then prevailed, expose the child
on the public highway, and let whoever listed take it away. The good Viking woman could not
find it in her heart to allow this, and she therefore determined that the Viking should never
see the child except by daylight.

One morning the wings of storks were heard rushing over the roof; more than a hundred pairs
of those birds had rested from their exercise during the previous night, and now they soared
aloft, to travel southwards.

"All males here, and ready," they cried; "and the wives and children too."

"How light we feel!" screamed the young storks in chorus: "it seems to be creeping all over
us, down into our very toes, as if we were filled with frogs. Ah, how charming it is, travelling
to foreign lands!"

"Mind you keep close to us during your flight," said papa and mamma. "Don't use your beaks
too much, for that tires the chest."

And the storks flew away.

And life and tumultuous joy came with them into the Viking's castle on the moorland. The great
mead tub was brought into the hall, the pile of wood was set ablaze, horses were killed, and
a great feast was to begin. Guests were invited, and received handsome gifts: all feuds and
all malice were forgotten. And the company drank deep, and threw the bones of the feast in
each others' faces, and this was considered a sign of good humour. The bard, a kind of minstrel,
but who was also a warrior, and had been on the expedition with the rest, sang them a song,
in which they heard all their warlike deeds praised, and everything remarkable specially noticed.
Every verse ended with the burden:

    "Goods and gold, friends and foes will die; every man must one day die;
    But a famous name will never die!"

And with that they beat upon their shields, and hammered the table in glorious fashion with
bones and knives.

The Viking's wife sat upon the high seat in the open hall. She wore a silken dress, and golden
armlets, and great amber beads: she was in her costliest garb. And the bard mentioned her in
his song, and sang of the rich treasure she had brought her rich husband. The latter was delighted
with the beautiful child, which he had seen in the daytime in all its loveliness; and the savage
ways of the little creature pleased him especially. He declared that the girl might grow up
to be a stately heroine, strong and determined as a man. She would not wink her eyes when a
practised hand cut off her eyebrows with a sword by way of a jest.

The full mead barrel was emptied, and a fresh one brought in; for these were people who liked
to enjoy all things plentifully. The old proverb was indeed well known, which says, "The cattle
know when they should quit the pasture, but a foolish man knoweth not the measure of his own
appetite." Yes, they knew it well enough; but one knows one thing, and one does another. They
also knew that "even the welcome guest becomes wearisome when he sitteth long in the house;"
but for all that they sat still, for pork and mead are good things; and there was high carousing,
and at night the bondmen slept among the warm ashes, and dipped their fingers in the fat grease
and licked them. Those were glorious times!

Once more in the year the Viking sallied forth, though the storms of autumn already began to
roar: he went with his warriors to the shores of Britain, for he declared that was but an excursion
across the water; and his wife stayed at home with the little girl. And thus much is certain,
that the poor lady soon got to love the frog with its gentle eyes and its sorrowful sighs,
almost better than the pretty child that bit and beat all around her.

The rough damp mist of autumn, which devours the leaves of the forest, had already descended
upon thicket and heath. "Birds feather-less," as they called the snow, flew in thick masses,
and winter was coming on fast. The sparrows took possession of the storks' nests, and talked
about the absent proprietors according to their fashion; but these--the stork pair, with all
the young ones--what had become of them?

       *       *       *       *       *

The storks were now in the land of Egypt, where the sun sent forth warm rays, as it does here
on a fine midsummer day. Tamarinds and acacias bloomed in the country all around; the crescent
of Mahomet glittered from the cupolas of the temples, and on the slender towers sat many a
stork pair resting after the long journey. Great troops divided the nests, built close together
on venerable pillars and in fallen temple arches of forgotten cities. The date-palm lifted
up its screen as if it would be a sunshade; the greyish-white pyramids stood like masses of
shadow in the clear air of the far desert, where the ostrich ran his swift career, and the
lion gazed with his great grave eyes at the marble sphinx which lay half buried in the sand.
The waters of the Nile had fallen, and the whole river bed was crowded with frogs, and this
spectacle was just according to the taste of the stork family. The young storks thought it
was optical illusion, they found everything so glorious.

"Yes, it's delightful here; and it's always like this in our warm country," said the stork-mamma;
and the young ones felt quite frisky on the strength of it. If you go into the desert, you'll
get your eyes full of sand when there's a light breeze, but when it blows great guns you may
get into the middle of a pillar of sand. It is best to stay here, where there are frogs and
locusts. I shall stay here, and you shall stay too."

And there they remained. Now and then they stretched out their necks, and bowed gravely, and
lifted their heads, with their high foreheads and fine smooth feathers, and looked very clever
with their brown eyes. The female young ones strutted about in the juicy reeds, looked slyly
at the other young storks, made acquaintances, and swallowed a frog at every third step, or
rolled a little snake to and fro in their bills, which they thought became them well, and,
moreover, tasted nice. The male young ones began a quarrel, beat each other with their wings,
struck with their beaks, and even pricked each other till the blood came. And in this way sometimes
one couple was betrothed, and sometimes another, of the young ladies and gentlemen, and that
was just what they wanted, and their chief object in life: then they took to a new nest, and
began new quarrels, for in hot countries people are generally hot-tempered and passionate.
But it was pleasant for all that, and the old people especially were much rejoiced, for all
that young people do seems to suit them well. The healing moor flower from the North, which
was to have been found and brought home by her who loved him best, never appeared. His beauteous
young daughter, who had flown in the swan's plumage over sea and land, to the far North, was
never to come back. "She is dead!" the two returning swan-maidens had said, and they had concocted
a complete story, which ran as follows:

"We three together flew high in the air: a hunter saw us, and shot his arrow at us; it struck
our young companion and friend; and slowly, singing her farewell song, she sunk down, a dying
swan, into the woodland lake. By the shore of the lake, under a weeping birch tree, we laid
her in the cool earth. But we had our revenge. We bound fire under the wings of the swallow
who had her nest beneath the huntsman's thatch; the house burst into flames, the huntsman was
burnt in the house, and the glare shone over the sea as far as the hanging birch beneath which
she sleeps.

"Treachery and lies!" he cried. "I should like to run my beak deep into their chests."

"And perhaps break it off," interposed the stork-mamma; "and then you would look well. Think
first of yourself, and then of your family, and all the rest does not concern you."

"But to-morrow I shall seat myself at the edge of the open cupola, when the wise and learned
men assemble, to consult on the sick man's state: perhaps they may come a little nearer the truth."

And the learned and wise men came together and spoke a great deal, out of which the stork could
make no sense--and it had no result, either for the sick man or for the daughter in the swampy
waste. But for all that we may listen to what the people said, for we have to listen to a great
deal of talk in the world.

But then it's an advantage to hear what went before, what has been said; and in this case we
are well informed, for we know just as much about it as stork-papa.

"Love gives life! the highest love gives the highest life! Only through love can his life be
preserved." That is what they all said, and the learned men said it was very cleverly and beautifully
spoken.

"That is a beautiful thought!" stork-papa said immediately.

"I don't quite understand it," stork-mamma replied: "and that's not my fault, but the fault
of the thought. But let it be as it will, I've something else to think of."

And now the learned men had spoken of love to this one and that one, and of the difference
between the love of one's neighbour and love between parents and children, of the love of plants
for the light, when the sunbeam kisses the ground and the germ springs forth from it,--everything
was so fully and elaborately explained that it was quite impossible for stork-papa to take
it in, much less to repeat it. He felt quite weighed down with thought, and half shut his eyes,
and the whole of the following day he stood thoughtfully on one leg: it was quite heavy for
him to carry, all that learning.

But one thing stork-papa understood. All, high and low, had spoken out of their inmost hearts,
and said that it was a great misfortune for thousands of people, yes, for the whole country,
that this man was lying sick, and could not get well, and that it would spread joy and pleasure
abroad if he should recover. But where grew the flower that could restore him to health? They
had all searched for it, consulted learned books, the twinkling stars, the weather and the
wind; they had made inquiries in every byway of which they could think; and at length the wise
men and the learned men had said, as we have already told, that "Love begets life--will restore
a father's life;" and on this occasion they had surpassed themselves, and said more than they
understood. They repeated it, and wrote down as a recipe, "Love begets life." But how was the
thing to be prepared according to the recipe? that was a point they could not get over. At
last they were decided upon the point that help must come by means of the princess, through
her who clave to her father with her whole soul; and at last a method had been devised whereby
help could be procured in this dilemma. Yes, it was already more than a year ago since the
princess had sallied forth by night, when the brief rays of the new moon were waning: she had
gone out to the marble sphinx, had shaken the dust from her sandals, and gone onward through
the long passage which leads into the midst of one of the great pyramids, where one of the
mighty kings of antiquity, surrounded by pomp and treasure, lay swathed in mummy cloths. There
she was to incline her ear to the breast of the dead king; for thus, said the wise men, it
should be made manifest to her where she might find life and health for her father. She had
fulfilled all these injunctions, and had seen in a vision that she was to bring home from the
deep lake in the northern moorland--the very place had been accurately described to her--the
lotos flower which grows in the depths of the waters, and then her father would regain health
and strength.

And therefore she had gone forth in the swan's plumage out of the land of Egypt to the open
heath, to the woodland moor. And the stork-papa and stork-mamma knew all this; and now we also
know it more accurately than we knew it before. We know that the marsh king had drawn her down
to himself, and know that to her loved ones at home she is dead for ever. One of the wisest
of them said, as the stork-mamma said too, "She will manage to help herself;" and at last they
quieted their minds with that, and resolved to wait and see what would happen, for they knew
of nothing better that they could do.

"I should like to take away the swan's feathers from the two faithless princesses," said the
stork-papa; "then, at any rate, they will not be able to fly up again to the wild moor and
do mischief. I'll hide the two swan-feather suits up there, till somebody has occasion for them."

"But where do you intend to hide them?" asked stork-mamma.

"Up in our nest in the moor," answered he.

"No one will thank you for it," quoth stork-mamma; "but you're the master. Except at breeding-time,
I have nothing to say."

In the Viking's castle by the wild moor, whither the storks bent their flight when the spring
approached, they had given the little girl the name of Helga; but this name was too soft for
a temper like that which was associated with her beauteous form. The shell was splendid, but
the kernel was harsh and hard; and she was hard, as indeed were most people in those dark,
gloomy times. It was a pleasure to her to splash about with her white hands in the blood of
the horse that had been slain in sacrifice. I have never forgotten it."

But the Viking took her words in jest; for, like all others, he was bewitched with her beauty,
and he knew not how temper and form changed in Helga. Without a saddle she sat upon a horse,
as if she were part of it, while it rushed along in full career; nor would she spring from
the horse when it quarrelled and fought with other horses. Often she would throw herself, in
her clothes, from the high shore into the sea, and swim to meet the Viking when his boat steered
near home; and she cut the longest lock of her hair, and twisted it into a string for her bow.

"Self-achieved is well-achieved," she said.

The Viking's wife was strong of character and of will, according to the custom of the times;
but, compared to her daughter, she appeared as a feeble, timid woman; for she knew that an
evil charm weighed heavily upon the unfortunate child.

It seemed as if, out of mere malice, when her mother stood on the threshold or came out into
the yard, Helga, would often seat herself on the margin of the well, and wave her arms in the
air; then suddenly she would dive into the deep well, when her frog nature enabled her to dive
and rise, down and up, until she climbed forth again like a cat, and came back into the hall
dripping with water, so that the green leaves strewn upon the ground floated and turned in
the streams that flowed from her garments.

But there was one thing that imposed a check upon Helga, and that was the evening twilight.
When that came she was quiet and thoughtful, and would listen to reproof and advice; and then
a secret feeling seemed to draw her towards her mother.

"One can scarcely believe that she was ever so small that she could lie in the cup of a water-lily,"
said stork-papa, "now she's grown up the image of her Egyptian mother. Ah, we shall never see
that poor lady again! Probably she did not know how to help herself, as you and the learned
men said. Year after year I have flown to and fro, across and across the great moorland, and
she has never once given a sign that she was still alive. Yes, I may as well tell you, that
every year, when I came here a few days before you, to repair the nest and attend to various
matters, I spent a whole night in flying to and fro over the lake, as if I had been an owl
or a bat, but every time in vain. The two suits of swan feathers which I and the young ones
dragged up here out of the land of the Nile have consequently not been used: we had trouble
enough with them to bring them hither in three journeys; and now they lie down here in the
nest, and if it should happen that a fire broke out, and the wooden house were burned, they
would be destroyed."

"And our good nest would be destroyed too," said stork-mamma; "but you think less of that than
of your plumage stuff and of your moor-princess. You'd best go down into the mud and stay there
with her. You're a bad father to your own children, as I said already when I hatched our first
brood. I only hope neither we nor our children will get an arrow in our wings through that
wild girl. Helga doesn't know in the least what she does. I wish she would only remember that
we have lived here longer than she, and that we have never forgotten our duty, and have given
our toll every year, a feather, an egg, and a young one, as it was right we should do. Do you
think I can now wander about in the courtyard and everywhere, as I was wont in former days,
and as I still do in Egypt, where I am almost the playfellow of the people, and that I can
press into pot and kettle as I can yonder? No, I sit up here and am angry at her, the stupid
chit! And I am angry at you too. You should have just left her lying in the water-lily, and
she would have been dead long ago."

"You are much better than your words," said stork-papa. "I know you better than you know yourself."

And with that he gave a hop, and flapped his wings heavily twice, stretched out his legs behind
him, and flew away, or rather sailed away, without moving his wings. He had already gone some
distance, when he gave a great flap! The sun shone upon his grand plumage, and his head and
neck were stretched forth proudly. There was power in it, and dash!

"After all, he's handsomer than any of them," said stork-mamma to herself; "but I won't tell
him so."

Often in those later times there had been a talk, in hall and chamber, of the new faith that
was spreading far and wide in the South, and which, by means of Saint Ansgarius, had penetrated
as far as Hedeby on the Schlei. Even Helga had heard of this belief in One who, from love to
men and for their redemption, had sacrificed His life; but with her all this had, as the saying
is, gone in at one ear and come out at the other. It seemed as if she only understood the meaning
of the word "love," when she crouched in a corner of the chamber in the form of a miserable
frog; but the Viking's wife had listened to the mighty history that was told throughout the
lands, and had felt strangely moved thereby.

On their return from their voyage, the men told of the splendid temples, of their hewn stones,
raised for the worship of Him whose worship is love.

In the deep cellars of the Viking's house the young priest had been immured, his hands and
feet bound with strips of bark. The Viking's wife declared that he was beautiful as Bulder
to behold, and his misfortune touched her heart; but Helga declared that it would be right
to tie ropes to his heels, and fasten him to the tails of wild oxen. And she exclaimed,

"Then I would let loose the dogs--hurrah! over the moor and across the swamp! That would be
a spectacle for the gods! And yet finer would it be to follow him in his career."

But the Viking would not suffer him to die such a death: he purposed to sacrifice the priest
on the morrow, on the death-stone in the grove, as a despiser and foe of the high gods.

For the first time a man was to be sacrificed here. And the Viking's wife looked mournfully
at the wild, evil-disposed girl; and when night came on and the maiden exchanged beauty of
form for gentleness of soul, she spoke in eloquent words to Helga of the sorrow that was deep
in her heart.

The ugly frog, in its monstrous form, stood before her, and fixed its brown eyes upon her face,
listening to her words, and seeming to comprehend them with human intelligence.

"Never, not even to my lord and husband, have I allowed my lips to utter a word concerning
the sufferings I have to undergo through thee," said the Viking's wife; "my heart is full of
woe concerning thee: more powerful, and greater than I ever fancied it, is the love of a mother!
But love never entered into thy heart--thy heart that is like the wet, cold moorland plants."

"Thy hard time will come," said the Viking's wife; "and it will be terrible to me too. It had
been better if thou hadst been set out by the high-road, and the night wind had lulled thee
to sleep."

And the Viking's wife wept bitter tears, and went away full of wrath and bitterness of spirit,
vanishing behind the curtain of furs that hung loose over the beam and divided the hall. It
seemed as though a painful new life were arising in her inmost heart. She came forward and
listened; and, stepping forward again, grasped with her clumsy hands the heavy pole that was
laid across before the door. Silently and laboriously she pushed back the pole, silently drew
back the bolt, and took up the flickering lamp which stood in the antechamber of the hall.
It seemed as if a strong hidden will gave her strength. She drew back the iron bolt from the
closed cellar door, and crept in to the captive. Whence this animal shape that thou bearest,
while yet thou art full of gentle mercy?"

The frog-woman beckoned him to follow, and led him through corridors shrouded with curtains,
into the stables, and there pointed to a horse. He mounted on its back; but she also sprang
up before him, holding fast by the horse's mane. The prisoner understood her meaning, and in
a rapid trot they rode on a way which he would never have found, out on to the open heath.

He thought not of her hideous form, but felt how the mercy and loving-kindness of the Almighty
were working by means of this monstrous apparition; he prayed pious prayers, and sang songs
of praise. Then she trembled. Was it the power of song and of prayer that worked in her, or
was she shuddering at the cold morning twilight that was approaching? What were her feelings?
She raised herself up, and wanted to stop the horse and to alight; but the Christian priest
held her back with all his strength, and sang a pious song, as if that would have the power
to loosen the charm that turned her into the hideous semblance of a frog. And the horse gallopped
on more wildly than ever; the sky turned red, the first sunbeam pierced through the clouds,
and as the flood of light came streaming down, the frog changed its nature. Helga was again
the beautiful maiden with the wicked, demoniac spirit. He held a beautiful maiden in his arms,
but was horrified at the sight: he swung himself from the horse, and compelled it to stand.
This seemed to him a new and terrible sorcery; but Helga likewise leaped from the saddle, and
stood on the ground. The child's short garment reached only to her knee. She plucked the sharp
knife from her girdle, and quick as lightning she rushed in upon the astonished priest.

She pressed in upon him. They struggled together in a hard strife, but an invisible power seemed
given to the Christian captive. He held her fast; and the old oak tree beneath which they stood
came to his assistance; for its roots, which projected over the ground, held fast the maiden's
feet that had become entangled in it. Quite close to them gushed a spring; and he sprinkled
Helga's face and neck with the fresh water, and commanded the unclean spirit to come forth,
and blessed her in the Christian fashion; but the water of faith has no power when the well-spring
of faith flows not from within.

And yet the Christian showed his power even now, and opposed more than the mere might of a
man against the evil that struggled within the girl. His holy action seemed to overpower her:
she dropped her hands, and gazed with frightened eyes and pale cheeks upon him who appeared
to her a mighty magician learned in secret arts; he seemed to her to speak in a dark Runic
tongue, and to be making cabalistic signs in the air. She would not have winked had he swung
a sharp knife or a glittering axe against her; but she trembled when he signed her with the
sign of the cross on her brow and her bosom, and she sat there like a tame bird with bowed
head. He would take her to Hedeby (Schleswig), to the holy Ansgarius, and yonder in the Christian
city the spell that bound her would be loosed. But he would not let her sit before him on the
horse, though of her own accord she offered to do so.

"Thou must sit behind me, not before me," he said. "Thy magic beauty hath a power that comes
of evil, and I fear it; and yet I feel that the victory is sure to him who hath faith."

And he knelt down and prayed fervently. It seemed as though the woodland scenes were consecrated
as a holy church by his prayer. The birds sang as though they belonged to the new congregation,
the wild flowers smelt sweet as incense; and while he spoke the horse that had carried them
both in headlong career stood still before the tall bramble bushes, and plucked at them, so
that the ripe juicy berries fell down upon Helga's hands, offering themselves for her refreshment.

Patiently she suffered the priest to lift her on the horse, and sat like a somnambulist, neither
completely asleep nor wholly awake. The wood became thicker as they went on, and at last became
a trackless wilderness.

The wild sloe grew across the way, so that they had to ride round the bushes. The bubbling
spring became not a stream but a standing marsh, round which likewise they were obliged to
lead the horse. There was strength and refreshment in the cool forest breeze; and no small
power lay in the gentle words, which were spoken in faith and in Christian love, from a strong
inward yearning to lead the poor lost one into the way of light and life.

They say the rain-drops can hollow the hard stone, and the waves of the sea can smooth and
round the sharp edges of the rocks. Thus did the dew of mercy, that dropped upon Helga, smooth
what was rough, and penetrate what was hard in her. The effects did not yet appear, nor was
she aware of them herself; but doth the seed in the bosom of earth know, when the refreshing
dew and the quickening sunbeams fall upon it, that it hath within itself the power of growth
and blossoming? As the song of the mother penetrates into the heart of the child, and it babbles
the words after her, without understanding their import, until they afterwards engender thought,
and come forward in due time clearer and more clearly, so here also did the Word work, that
is powerful to create. The priest had no weapon save the knife he had taken from Helga; and
with this he tried to defend himself. One of the robbers lifted his axe to slay him, but the
young priest sprang aside and eluded the blow, which struck deep into the horse's neck, so
that the blood spurted forth, and the creature sank down on the ground. Then Helga seemed suddenly
to wake from her long reverie, and threw herself hastily upon the gasping animal. The priest
stood before her to protect and defend her, but one of the robbers swung his iron hammer over
the Christian's head, and brought it down with such a crash that blood and brains were scattered
around, and the priest sank to the earth, dead.

Then the robber's seized beautiful Helga by her white arms and her slender waist; but the sun
went down, and its last ray disappeared at that moment, and she was changed into the form of
a frog. She stood, a hideous monster, among them; and as it is the nature of the frog to do,
she hopped up high, and disappeared in the thicket. Then the robbers saw that this must be
a bad prank of the spirit Loke, or the evil power of magic, and in great affright they hurried
away from the spot.

The full moon was already rising. Presently it shone with splendid radiance over the earth,
and poor Helga crept forth from the thicket in the wretched frog's shape. She stood still beside
the corpse of the priest and the carcase of the slain horse. She looked at them with eyes that
appeared to weep, and from the frog-mouth came forth a croaking like the voice of a child bursting
into tears. She leant first over the one, then over the other, brought water in her hollow
hand, which had become larger and more capacious by the webbed skin, and poured it over them;
but dead they were, and dead they would remain, she at last understood. Soon wild beasts would
come and tear their dead bodies; but no, that must not be! so she dug up the earth as well
as she could, in the endeavour to prepare a grave for them. She had nothing to work with but
a stake and her two hands encumbered with the webbed skin that grew between the fingers, and
which were torn by the labour, so that the blood flowed over them. At last she saw that her
endeavours would not succeed. Then she brought water and washed the dead man's face, and covered
it with fresh green leaves; she brought green boughs and laid them upon him, scattering dead
leaves in the spaces between. Then she brought the heaviest stones she could carry and laid
them over the dead body, stopping up the interstices with moss. And now she thought the grave-hill
would be strong and secure. Then she ran towards the slender tree, clung to it for support,
and in another moment she had climbed to the summit of the tree, and held fast. There she sat
like a startled squirrel, and remained the whole day long in the silent solitude of the wood,
where everything is quiet, and, as they say, dead. Butterflies fluttered around in sport, and
in the neighbourhood were several ant-hills, each with its hundreds of busy little occupants
moving briskly to and fro. In the air danced a number of gnats, swarm upon swarm, and hosts
of buzzing flies, lady-birds, gold beetles, and other little winged creatures; the worm crept
forth from the damp ground, the moles came out; but except these all was silent around--silent,
and, as people say, dead--for they speak of things as they understand them. No one noticed
Helga, but some flocks of crows, that flew screaming about the top of the tree on which she
sat: the birds hopped close up to her on the twigs with pert curiosity; but when the glance
of her eye fell upon them, it was a signal for their flight. But they could not understand
her--nor, indeed, could she understand herself.

When the evening twilight came on, and the sun was sinking, the time of her transformation
roused her to fresh activity.

On the sepulchral mound she had raised there yet lay the cross of boughs, the last work of
him who slept beneath. Helga lifted up the cross, in pursuance of a sudden thought that came
upon her. She planted it upon the burial mound, over the priest and the dead horse.

Then the frog-skin fell from her, and she was once more the beauteous maiden. But her head
sank wearily, her tired limbs required rest, and she fell into a deep slumber.

Her sleep, however, was short. Towards midnight she awoke. Before her stood the dead horse,
beaming and full of life, which gleamed forth from his eyes and from his wounded neck; close
beside the creature stood the murdered Christian priest, "more beautiful than Bulder," the
Viking woman would have said; and yet he seemed to stand in a flame of fire.

Such gravity, such an air of justice, such a piercing look shone out of his great mild eyes,
that their glance seemed to penetrate every corner of her heart. Beautiful Helga trembled at
the look, and her remembrance awoke as though she stood before the tribunal of judgment.

Every good deed that had been done for her, every loving word that had been spoken, seemed
endowed with life: she understood that it had been love that kept her here during the days
of trial, during which the creature formed of dust and spirit, soul and earth, combats and
struggles; she acknowledged that she had only followed the leading of temper, and had done
nothing for herself; everything had been given her, everything had happened as it were by the
interposition of Providence. She bowed herself humbly, confessing her own deep imperfection
in the presence of the Power that can read every thought of the heart--and then the priest spoke.

"Thou daughter of the moorland," he said, "out of the earth, out of the moor, thou camest;
but from the earth thou shalt arise. I come from the land of the dead. Thou, too, shalt pass
through the deep valleys into the beaming mountain region, where dwell mercy and completeness.
I cannot lead thee to Hedeby, that thou mayest receive Christian baptism; for, first, thou
must burst the veil of waters over the deep moorland, and draw forth the living source of thy
being and of thy birth; thou must exercise thy faculties in deeds before the consecration can
be given thee."

And he lifted her upon the horse, and gave her a golden censer similar to the one she had seen
in the Viking's castle. The open wound in the forehead of the slain Christian shone like a
diadem. He took the cross from the grave and held it aloft. And now they rode through the air,
over the rustling wood, over the hills where the old heroes lay buried, each on his dead war-horse;
and the iron figures rose up and gallopped forth, and stationed themselves on the summits of
the hills. The golden hoop on the forehead of each gleamed in the moonlight, and their mantles
floated in the night breeze. The dragon that guards buried treasures likewise lifted up his
head and gazed after the riders. The gnomes and wood-spirits peeped forth from beneath the
hills and from between the furrows of the fields, and flitted to and fro with red, blue, and
green torches, like the sparks in the ashes of a burnt paper.

Over woodland and heath, over river and marsh they fled away, up to the wild moor; and over
this they hovered in wide circles. The Christian priest held the cross aloft; it gleamed like
gold; and from his lips dropped pious prayers. Beautiful Helga joined in the hymns he sang,
like a child joining in its mother's song. She swung the censer, and a wondrous fragrance of
incense streamed forth thence, so that the reeds and grass of the moor burst forth into blossom.
Every germ came forth from the deep ground. All that had life lifted itself up. A veil of water-lilies
spread itself forth like a carpet of wrought flowers, and upon this carpet lay a sleeping woman,
young and beautiful. Helga thought it was her own likeness she saw upon the mirror of the calm
waters. But it was her mother whom she beheld, the moor king's wife, the princess from the
banks of the Nile.

The dead priest commanded that the slumbering woman should be lifted upon the horse; but the
horse sank under the burden, as though its body had been a cloth fluttering in the wind. But
the holy sign gave strength to the airy phantom, and then the three rode from the moor to the
firm land.

"Is it myself that I see reflected on the clear mirror?" exclaimed the daughter.

And they approached one another, and embraced. The heart of the mother beat quickest, and she
understood the quickening pulses.

"My child! thou flower of my own heart! my lotos-flower of the deep waters!" I sank through
the shaking moorland, far down into the black slime, which closed like a wall around me. It
seemed to me that I was again in the pyramid in Egypt, and yet the waving willow trunk that
had frightened me up in the moor was ever before me. I looked at the clefts and wrinkles in
the stem, and they shone forth in colours, and took the form of hieroglyphics: it was the case
of the mummy at which I was gazing; at last the case burst, and forth stepped the thousand-year-old
king, the mummied form, black as pitch, shining black as the wood-snail or the fat mud of the
swamp; whether it was the marsh king or the mummy of the pyramids I knew not. He seized me
in his arms, and I felt as if I must die. When I returned to consciousness a little bird was
sitting on my bosom, beating with its wings, and twittering and singing. The bird flew away
from me up towards the heavy, dark covering; but a long green band still fastened him to me.
Since that hour I have dreamed no more. I have slept a sleep, a long and heavy sleep, till
within this hour; harmony and incense awoke me and set me free."

The green band from the heart of the mother to the bird's wings, where did it flutter now?
whither had it been wafted? Only the stork had seen it. The band was the green stalk, the bow
at the end, the beauteous flower, the cradle of the child that had now bloomed into beauty,
and was once more resting on its mother's heart.

And while the two were locked in each other's embrace, the old stork flew around them in smaller
and smaller circles, and at length shot away in swift flight towards his nest, whence he brought
out the swan-feather suits he had preserved there for years, throwing one to each of them,
and the feathers closed around them, so that they soared up from the earth in the semblance
of two white swans.

"And now we will speak with one another," quoth stork-papa, "now we understand each other,
though the beak of one bird is differently shaped from that of another. It happens more than
fortunately that you came to-night. To-morrow we should have been gone--mother, myself, and
the young ones; for we're flying southward. Yes, only look at me! I am an old friend from the
land of the Nile, and mother has a heart larger than her beak. She always declared the princess
would find a way to help herself; and I and the young ones carried the swan's feathers up here.
But how glad I am! and how fortunate that I'm here still! At dawn of day we shall move hence,
a great company of storks. We'll fly first, and do you follow us; thus you cannot miss your
way; moreover, I and the youngsters will keep a sharp eye upon you."

"And the lotos-flower which I was to bring with me," said the Egyptian princess, "she is flying
by my side in the swan's plumage! I bring with me the flower of my heart; and thus the riddle
has been read. Homeward! homeward!"

But Helga declared she could not quit the Danish land before she had once more seen her foster-mother,
the affectionate Viking woman. Every beautiful recollection, every kind word, every tear that
her foster-mother had wept for her, rose up in her memory, and in that moment she almost felt
as if she loved the Viking woman best of all.

"Yes, we must go to the Viking's castle," said stork-papa; "mother and the youngsters are waiting
for us there. How they will turn up their eyes and flap their wings! Yes, you see mother doesn't
speak much--she's short and dry, but she means all the better. I'll begin clapping at once,
that they may know we're coming." And stork-papa clapped in first-rate style, and they all
flew away towards the Viking's castle.

In the castle every one was sunk in deep sleep. The Viking's wife had not retired to rest until
it was late. She was anxious about Helga, who had vanished with a Christian priest three days
before: she knew Helga must have assisted him in his flight, for it was the girl's horse that
had been missed from the stables; but how all this had been effected was a mystery to her.
The Viking woman had heard of the miracles told of the Christian priest, and which were said
to be wrought by him and by those who believed in his words and followed him. Her passing thoughts
formed themselves into a dream, and it seemed to her that she was still lying awake on her
couch, and that deep darkness reigned without. The storm drew near: she heard the sea roaring
and rolling to the east and to the west, like the waves of the North Sea and the Cattegat.
The immense snake which was believed to surround the span of the earth in the depths of the
ocean was trembling in convulsions; she dreamed that the night of the fall of the gods had
come--Ragnarok, as the heathen called the last day, when everything was to pass away, even
the great gods themselves. The war-trumpet sounded, and the gods rode over the rainbow, clad
in steel, to fight the last battle. It was a terrible hour.

And close by the terrified Viking woman Helga seemed to be crouching on the floor in the hideous
frog form, trembling and pressing close to her foster-mother, who took her on her lap and embraced
her affectionately, hideous though she was. The air resounded with the blows of clubs and swords,
and with the hissing of arrows, as if a hailstorm were passing across it. The hour was come
when earth and sky were to burst, the stars to fall, and all things to be swallowed up in Surtur's
sea of fire; but she knew that there would be a new heaven and a new earth, that the corn fields
then would wave where now the ocean rolled over the desolate tracts of sand, and that the unutterable
God would reign; and up to Him rose Bulder the gentle, the affectionate, delivered from the
kingdom of the dead; he came; the Viking woman saw him, and recognized his countenance; it
was that of the captive Christian priest. She kissed her foster-mother's hands, blessed her
for all the care and affection lavished during the days of bitterness and trial, for the thought
she had awakened and cherished in her, for naming the name, which she repeated, "White Christian;"
and beauteous Helga arose in the form of a mighty swan, and spread her white wings with a rushing
like the sound of a troop of birds of passage winging their way through the air.

The Viking woman woke; and she heard the same noise without still continuing. She knew it was
the time for the storks to depart, and that it must be those birds whose wings she heard. She
wished to see them once more, and to bid them farewell as they set forth on their journey.
Therefore she rose from her couch and stepped out upon the threshold, and on the top of the
gable she saw stork ranged behind stork, and around the castle, over the high trees, flew bands
of storks wheeling in wide circles; but opposite the threshold where she stood, by the well
where Helga had often sat and alarmed her with her wildness, sat two white swans gazing at
her with intelligent eyes. And she remembered her dream, which still filled her soul as if
it were reality. She thought of Helga in the shape of a swan, and of the Christian priest;
and suddenly she felt her heart rejoice within her.

The swans flapped their wings and arched their necks, as if they would send her a greeting,
and the Viking's wife spread out her arms towards them, as if she felt all this; and smiled
through her tears, and then stood sunk in deep thought.

Then all the storks arose, flapping their wings and clapping with their beaks, to start on
their voyage towards the South.

"We will not wait for the swans," said stork-mamma: "if they want to go with us they had better
come. What are yonder swans flapping their wings for?"

"Well, everyone flies in his own fashion," said stork-papa: "the swans in an oblique line,
the cranes in a triangle, and the plovers in a snake's line."

"Those are the mountains covered with perpetual snow which you see yonder," replied her mother.

And they flew across the lofty Alps towards the blue Mediterranean.

"Africa's land! Egypt's strand!" sang, rejoicingly, in her swan's plumage, the daughter of
the Nile, as from the lofty air she saw her native land looming in the form of a yellowish
wavy stripe of shore.

And all the birds caught sight of it, and hastened their flight. They all belong to our family,
though they are not nearly so beautiful as we. They give themselves great airs, especially
the ibis. That's my opinion, and I am always right."

"Now the storks are come," said the people in the rich house on the banks of the Nile, where
the royal lord lay in the open hall on the downy cushions, covered with a leopard skin, not
alive and yet not dead, but waiting and hoping for the lotos-flower from the deep moorland,
in the far North. Friends and servants stood around his couch.

And into the hall flew two beauteous swans. They had come with the storks. They threw off their
dazzling white plumage, and two lovely female forms were revealed, as like each other as two
dewdrops. They bent over the old, pale, sick man, they put back their long hair, and while
Helga bent over her grandfather, his white cheeks reddened, his eyes brightened, and life came
back to his wasted limbs. The old man rose up cheerful and well; and daughter and granddaughter
embraced him joyfully, as if they were giving him a morning greeting after a long heavy dream.

And joy reigned through the whole house, and likewise in the stork's nest, though there the
chief cause was certainly the good food, especially the numberless frogs, which seemed to spring
up in heaps out of the ground; and while the learned men wrote down hastily, in flying characters,
a sketch of the history of the two princesses, and of the flower of health that had been a
source of joy for the home and the land, the stork pair told the story to their family in their
own fashion, but not till all had eaten their fill, otherwise the youngsters would have found
something more interesting to do than to listen to stories.

"Now, at last, you will become something," whispered stork-mamma, "there's no doubt about that."

"What should I become?" asked stork-papa. "What have I done? Nothing at all!"

"You have done more than the rest! But for you and the youngsters the two princesses would
never have seen Egypt again, or have effected the old man's cure. You will turn out something!
They must certainly give you a doctor's degree, and our youngsters will inherit it, and so
will their children after them, and so on. You already look like an Egyptian doctor; at least
in my eyes."

"I cannot quite repeat the words as they were spoken," said stork-papa, who had listened from
the roof to the report of these events, made by the learned men, and was now telling it again
to his own family. "What they said was so confused, it was so wise and learned, that they immediately
received rank and presents--even the head cook received an especial mark of distinction--probably
for the soup."

"And what did you receive?" asked stork-mamma. "Surely they ought not to forget the most important
person of all, and you are certainly he! The learned men have done nothing throughout the whole
affair but used their tongues; but you will doubtless receive what is due to you."

Late in the night, when the gentle peace of sleep rested upon the now happy house, there was
one who still watched. It was not stork-papa, though he stood upon one leg, and slept on guard--it
was Helga who watched. She bowed herself forward over the balcony, and looked into the clear
air, gazed at the great gleaming stars, greater and purer in their lustre than she had ever
seen them in the North, and yet the same orbs. She thought of the Viking woman in the wild
moorland, of the gentle eyes of her foster-mother, and of the tears which the kind soul had
wept over the poor frog-child that now lived in splendour under the gleaming stars, in the
beauteous spring air on the banks of the Nile. She looked at the gleaming stars, and thought
of the glory that had shone upon the forehead of the dead man, when she flew with him through
the forest and across the moorland; sounds passed through her memory, words she had heard pronounced
as they rode onward, and when she was borne wondering and trembling through the air, words
from the great Fountain of love that embraces all human kind.

Yes, great things had been achieved and won! Day and night beautiful Helga was absorbed in
the contemplation of the great sum of her happiness, and stood in the contemplation of it like
a child that turns hurriedly from the giver to gaze on the splendours of the gifts it has received.
She seemed to lose herself in the increasing happiness, in contemplation of what might come,
of what would come. Had she not been borne by miracle to greater and greater bliss? And in
this idea she one day lost herself so completely, that she thought no more of the Giver. It
was the exuberance of youthful courage, unfolding its wings for a bold flight! Her eyes were
gleaming with courage, when suddenly a loud noise in the courtyard below recalled her thoughts
from their wandering flight. There she saw two great ostriches running round rapidly in a narrow
circle. Never before had she seen such creatures--great clumsy things they were, with wings
that looked as if they had been clipped, and the birds themselves looking as if they had suffered
violence of some kind; and now for the first time she heard the legend which the Egyptians
tell of the ostrich.

Once, they say, the ostriches were a beautiful, glorious race of birds, with strong large wings;
and one evening the larger birds of the forest said to the ostrich, "Brother, shall we fly
to-morrow, God willing, to the river to drink?" And the ostrich answered, "I will." At daybreak,
accordingly, they winged their flight from thence, flying first up on high, towards the sun,
that gleamed like the eye of God--higher and higher, the ostrich far in advance of all the
other birds. Since that time, the ostrich has never again been able to raise himself in the
air, but flees timidly along the ground, and runs round in a narrow circle. And this is a warning
for us men, that in all our thoughts and schemes, in all our doings and devices, we should
say, "God willing." And Helga bowed her head thoughtfully and gravely, and looked at the circling
ostrich, noticing its timid fear, and its stupid pleasure at sight of its own great shadow
cast upon the white sunlit wall. And seriousness struck its roots deep into her mind and heart.
A rich life in present and future happiness was given and won; and what was yet to come? the
best of all, "God willing."

In early spring, when the storks flew again towards the North, beautiful Helga took off her
golden bracelet, and scratched her name upon it; and beckoning to the stork-father, she placed
the golden hoop around his neck, and begged him to deliver it to the Viking woman, so that
the latter might see that her adopted daughter was well, and had not forgotten her.

"Still one has one's inward consciousness, mother," replied stork-papa.

"But you can't hang that round your neck," stork-mamma retorted; "and it won't give you a good
wind or a good meal."

The little nightingale, singing yonder in the tamarind tree, will soon be going north too.
Helga the fair had often heard the sweet bird sing up yonder by the wild moor; now she wanted
to give it a message to carry, for she had learned the language of birds when she flew in the
swan's plumage; she had often conversed with stork and with swallow, and she knew the nightingale
would understand her. So she begged the little bird to fly to the beech wood, on the peninsula
of Jutland, where the grave-hill had been reared with stones and branches, and begged the nightingale
to persuade all other little birds that they might build their nests around the place, so that
the song of birds should resound over that sepulchre for evermore. And the nightingale flew
away--and time flew away.

In autumn the eagle stood upon the pyramid and saw a stately train of richly laden camels approaching,
and richly attired armed men on foaming Arab steeds, shining white as silver, with pink trembling
nostrils, and great thick manes hanging down almost over their slender legs.

But her gaze was not fixed upon the bridegroom, with his manly sun-browned cheeks, round which
a black beard curled; she gazed not at his dark fiery eyes that were fixed upon her--but far
away at a gleaming star that shone down from the sky.

Then strong wings were heard beating the air. The storks were coming home, and however tired
the old stork pair might be from the journey, and however much they needed repose, they did
not fail to come down at once to the balustrades of the verandah; for they knew what feast
was being celebrated. Already on the frontier of the land they had heard that Helga had caused
their figures to be painted on the wall--for did they not belong to her history?

"That's very pretty and suggestive," said stork-papa.

"But it's very little," observed stork-mamma. "They could not possibly have done less."

And when Helga saw them, she rose and came on to the verandah, to stroke the backs of the storks.
The old pair waved their heads and bowed their necks, and even the youngest among the young
ones felt highly honoured by the reception.

And Helga looked up to the gleaming star, which seemed to glow purer and purer; and between
the star and herself there floated a form, purer than the air, and visible through it: it floated
quite close to her. It was the spirit of the dead Christian priest; he too was coming to her
wedding feast--coming from heaven.

"The glory and brightness yonder outshines everything that is known on earth!" he said.

And fair Helga begged so fervently, so beseechingly, as she had never yet prayed, that it might
be permitted her to gaze in there for one single moment, that she might be allowed to cast
but a single glance into the brightness that beamed in the kingdom.

Then he bore her up amid splendour and glory. Not only around her, but within her, sounded
voices and beamed a brightness that words cannot express.

"Now we must go back; thou wilt be missed," he said.

"Only one more look!" she begged. "But one short minute more!"

"We must go back to the earth. The guests will all depart."

"Only one more look--the last."

And Helga stood again in the verandah; but the marriage lights without had vanished, and the
lamps in the hall were extinguished, and the storks were gone--nowhere a guest to be seen--no
bridegroom--all seemed to have been swept away in those few short minutes!

Then a great dread came upon her. Alone she went through the empty great hall into the next
chamber. Strange warriors slept yonder. She opened a side door which led into her own chamber;
and, as she thought to step in there, she suddenly found herself in the garden; but yet it
had not looked thus here before--the sky gleamed red--the morning dawn was come.

Three minutes only in heaven and a whole night on earth had passed away!

Then she saw the storks again.

"No, no!" she persisted. And she reminded him of the Viking's castle, and of the great ocean,
and of the journey hither.

Then stork-papa winked with his eyes, and said:

"Why, that's an old story, which I heard from the time of my great-grandfather. But I like
it very well."

"But what will the young ones say to it?" said stork-mamma.

"Yes, certainly, that's the important point," replied he.

THE LAST DREAM OF THE OLD OAK TREE.

A CHRISTMAS TALE.

On many a warm summer day the Ephemera, the fly that lives but for a day, had danced around
his crown--had lived, enjoyed, and felt happy; and then rested for a moment in quiet bliss
the tiny creature, on one of the great fresh oak leaves; and then the tree always said:

"Poor little thing! Your whole life is but a single day! How very short! It's quite melancholy!"

"Melancholy! Why do you say that?" the Ephemera would then always reply. "It's wonderfully
bright, warm, and beautiful all around me, and that makes me rejoice!"

"But only one day, and then it's all done!"

"Done!" repeated the Ephemera.

"Well, then, we have the same time, only that we reckon differently."

And the Ephemera danced and floated in the air, and rejoiced in her delicate wings of gauze
and velvet, and rejoiced in the balmy breezes laden with the fragrance of meadows and of wild
roses and elder-flowers, of the garden hedges, wild thyme, and mint, and daisies; the scent
of these was all so strong that the Ephemera was almost intoxicated. The day was long and beautiful,
full of joy and of sweet feeling, and when the sun sank low the little fly felt very agreeably
tired of all its happiness and enjoyment. Winter was approaching.

"We'll rock you, and dandle you! Go to sleep, go to sleep! We sing you to sleep, we shake you
to sleep, but it does you good in your old twigs, does it not? They seem to crack for very
joy! Sleep sweetly, sleep sweetly! It's your three hundred and sixty-fifth night. Properly
speaking, you're only a stripling as yet! Sleep sweetly! The clouds strew down snow, there
will be quite a coverlet, warm and protecting, around your feet. Sweet sleep to you, and pleasant
dreams!"

And the Oak Tree stood there, denuded of all its leaves, to sleep through the long winter,
and to dream many a dream, always about something that had happened to it, just as in the dreams
of men.

The great Oak had once been small--indeed, an acorn had been its cradle. According to human
computation, it was now in its fourth century. It was the greatest and best tree in the forest;
its crown towered far above all the other trees, and could be descried from afar across the
sea, so that it served as a landmark to the sailors: the tree had no idea how many eyes were
in the habit of seeking it. High up in its green summit the wood-pigeon built her nest, and
the cuckoo sat in its boughs, and sang his song; and in autumn, when the leaves looked like
thin plates of copper, the birds of passage came and rested there, before they flew away across
the sea; but now it was winter, and the tree stood there leafless, so that every one could
see how gnarled and crooked the branches were that shot forth from its trunk. Crows and rooks
came and took their seat by turns in the boughs, and spoke of the hard times which were beginning,
and of the difficulty of getting a living in winter.

It was just at the holy Christmas time, when the tree dreamed its most glorious dream.

The tree had a distinct feeling of the festive time, and fancied he heard the bells ringing
from the churches all around; and yet it seemed as if it were a fine summer's day, mild and
warm. Fresh and green he spread out his mighty crown; the sunbeams played among the twigs and
the leaves; the air was full of the fragrance of herbs and blossoms; gay butterflies chased
each other to and fro. The ephemeral insects danced as if all the world were created merely
for them to dance and be merry in. All that the tree had experienced for years and years, and
that had happened around him, seemed to pass by him again, as in a festive pageant. The watch-fires
flamed up anew, and men sang and slept under the branches of the tree. He saw loving couples
meeting near his trunk, happily, in the moonshine; and they cut the initials of their names
in the grey-green bark of his stem. Once--but long years had rolled by since then--citherns
and Æolian harps had been hung up on his boughs by merry wanderers, now they hung there again,
and once again they sounded in tones of marvellous sweetness. The wood-pigeons cooed, as if
they were telling what the tree felt in all this, and the cuckoo called out to tell him how
many summer days he had yet to live.

Then it appeared to him as if new life were rippling down into the remotest fibre of his root,
and mounting up into his highest branches, to the tops of the leaves. The tree felt that he
was stretching and spreading himself, and through his root he felt that there was life and
motion even in the ground itself. He felt his strength increase, he grew higher, his stem shot
up unceasingly, and he grew more and more, his crown became fuller, and spread out; and in
proportion as the tree grew, he felt his happiness increase, and his joyous hope that he should
reach even higher--quite up to the warm brilliant sun.

Already had he grown high above the clouds, which floated past beneath his crown like dark
troops of passage-birds, or like great white swans. And every leaf of the tree had the gift
of sight, as if it had eyes wherewith to see; the stars became visible in broad daylight, great
and sparkling; each of them sparkled like a pair of eyes, mild and clear. They recalled to
his memory well-known gentle eyes, eyes of children, eyes of lovers who had met beneath his boughs.

It was a marvellous spectacle, and one full of happiness and joy! And yet amid all this happiness
the tree felt a longing, a yearning desire that all other trees of the wood beneath him, and
all the bushes, and herbs, and flowers, might be able to rise with him, that they too might
see this splendour, and experience this joy. The great majestic oak was not quite happy in
his happiness, while he had not them all, great and little, about him; and this feeling of
yearning trembled through his every twig, through his every leaf, warmly and fervently as through
a human heart.

The crown of the tree waved to and fro, as if he sought something in his silent longing, and
he looked down.

Yes, through the clouds the green summits of the forest came peering up, and under himself
the Oak saw the other trees, as they grew and raised themselves aloft. Bushes and herbs shot
up high, and some tore themselves up bodily by the roots to rise the quicker. The birch was
the quickest of all. Like a white streak of lightning, its slender stem shot upwards in a zigzag
line, and the branches spread around it like green gauze and like banners; the whole woodland
natives, even to the brown plumed rushes, grew up with the rest, and the birds came too, and
sang; and on the grass blade that fluttered aloft like a long silken ribbon into the air, sat
the grasshopper cleaning his wings with his leg; the May beetles hummed, and the bees murmured,
and every bird sang in his appointed manner; all was song and sound of gladness up into the
high heaven.

"But the little blue flower by the water-side, where is that?" said the Oak; "and the purple
bell-flower and the daisy?" for, you see, the old Oak Tree wanted to have them all about him.

"We are here--we are here!" was shouted and sung in reply.

"But the beautiful thyme of last summer--and in the last year there was certainly a place here
covered with lilies of the valley! and the wild apple tree that blossomed so splendidly! and
all the glory of the wood that came year by year--if that had only just been born, it might
have been here now!"

"We are here, we are here!" replied voices still higher in the air. It seemed as if they had
flown on before.

"Why, that is beautiful, indescribably beautiful!" exclaimed the old Oak Tree, rejoicingly.
"I have them all around me, great and small; not one has been forgotten! How can so much happiness
be imagined? How can it be possible?"

"In heaven, in the better land, it can be imagined, and it is possible!" the reply sounded
through the air.

And the old tree, who grew on and on, felt how his roots were tearing themselves free from
the ground.

"That's right, that's better than all!" said the tree. "Now no fetters hold me! I can fly up
now, to the very highest, in glory and in light! And all my beloved ones are with me, great
and small--all of them, all!"

That was the dream of the old Oak Tree; and while he dreamt thus a mighty storm came rushing
over land and sea--at the holy Christmas tide. The sea rolled great billows towards the shore;
there was a cracking and crashing in the tree--his root was torn out of the ground in the very
moment while he was dreaming that his root freed itself from the earth. He fell. His three
hundred and sixty-five years were now as the single day of the Ephemera.

On the morning of the Christmas festival, when the sun rose, the storm had subsided. From all
the churches sounded the festive bells, and from every hearth, even from the smallest hut,
arose the smoke in blue clouds, like the smoke from the altars of the druids of old at the
feast of thanks offerings. The sea became gradually calm, and on board a great ship in the
offing, that had fought successfully with the tempest, all the flags were displayed, as a token
of joy suitable to the festive day.

"The tree is down--the old Oak Tree, our landmark on the coast!" said the sailors. "It fell
in the storm of last night. Who can replace it? No one can."

This was the funeral oration, short but well meant, that was given to the tree, which lay stretched
on the snowy covering on the sea shore; and over its prostrate form sounded the notes of a
song from the ship, a carol of the joys of Christmas, and of the redemption of the soul of
man by His blood, and of eternal life.

    "Sing, sing aloud, this blessed morn--
    It is fulfilled--and He is born,
    Oh, joy without compare!
        Hallelujah! Hallelujah!"

Thus sounded the old psalm tune, and every one on board the ship felt lifted up in his own
way, through the song and the prayer, just as the old tree had felt lifted up in its last,
its most beauteous dream in the Christmas night.

THE PUPPET SHOWMAN.

On board the steamer was an elderly man with such a merry face that, if it did not belie him,
he must have been the happiest fellow in creation. And, indeed, he declared he was the happiest
man; I heard it out of his own mouth. He was a Dane, a travelling theatre director. I did not
at first understand all this, but afterwards he explained the whole story to me, and here it
is. He told me:

"It was in the little town of Slagelse I gave a representation in the hall of the posting-house,
and had a brilliant audience, entirely a juvenile one, with the exception of two respectable
matrons. All at once a person in black, of student-like appearance, came into the room and
sat down; he laughed aloud at the telling parts, and applauded quite appropriately. That was
quite an unusual spectator for me! They were quite miracles in a small way that he showed,
and yet everything flowed as naturally as water! At the time of Moses and the prophets such
a man would have been received among the sages of the land; in the middle ages they would have
burned him at a stake. All night long I could not go to sleep. And the next evening, when I
gave another performance, and the candidate was again present, I felt fairly overflowing with
humour. And when the performance was over, all the puppets were called before the curtain,
and the Polytechnic candidate invited me into his room to take a glass of wine; and he spoke
of my comedies, and I of his science; and I believe we were both equally pleased. But I had
the best of it, for there was much in what he did of which he could not always give me an explanation.
For instance, that a piece of iron that falls through a spiral should become magnetic. Now,
how does that happen? The spirit comes upon it; but whence does it come? It is as with people
in this world; they are made to tumble through the spiral of this world, and the spirit comes
upon them, and there stands a Napoleon, or a Luther, or a person of that kind. 'The whole world
is a series of miracles,' said the candidate; 'but we are so accustomed to them that we call
them every-day matters.' And he went on explaining things to me until my skull seemed lifted
up over my brain, and I declared that if I were not an old fellow I would at once visit the
Polytechnic Institution, that I might learn to look at the sunny side of the world, though
I am one of the happiest of men. 'One of the happiest!' said the candidate, and he seemed to
take real pleasure in it. 'Are you happy?' 'Yes,' I replied, 'and they welcome me in all the
towns where I come with my company; but I certainly have one wish, which sometimes lies like
lead, like an Alp, upon my good humour: I should like to become a real theatrical manager,
the director of a real troupe of men and women!' 'I see,' he said, 'you would like to have
life breathed into your puppets, so that they might be real actors, and you their director;
and would you then be quite happy?' He did not believe it; but I believed it, and we talked
it over all manner of ways without coming any nearer to an agreement; but we clanked our glasses
together, and the wine was excellent. There was some magic in it, or I should certainly have
become tipsy. But that did not happen; I retained my clear view of things, and somehow there
was sunshine in the room, and sunshine beamed out of the eyes of the Polytechnic candidate.
It made me think of the old stories of the gods, in their eternal youth, when they still wandered
upon earth and paid visits to the mortals; and I said so to him, and he smiled, and I could
have sworn he was one of the ancient gods in disguise, or that, at any rate, he belonged to
the family! and certainly he must have been something of the kind, for my highest wish was
to have been fulfilled, the puppets were to be gifted with life, and I was to be director of
a real company. We drank to my success and clinked our glasses. He packed all my dolls into
a box, bound the box on my back, and then let me fall through a spiral. I heard myself tumbling,
and then I was lying on the floor--I know that quite well--and the whole company sprang out
of the box. The spirit had come upon all of us: all the puppets had become distinguished artists,
so they said themselves, and I was the director. All was ready for the first representation;
the whole company wanted to speak to me, and the public also. The dancing lady said the house
would fall down if she did not keep it up by standing on one leg; for she was the great genius,
and begged to be treated as such. The lady who acted the queen wished to be treated off the
stage as a queen, or else she should get out of practice. The man who was only employed to
deliver a letter gave himself just as many airs as the first lover, for he declared the little
ones were just as important as the great ones, and that all were of equal consequence, considered
as an artistic whole. The hero would only play parts composed of nothing but points; for those
brought him down the applause. The Polytechnic student had fully purified me. I sat as happy
as a king, and went to sleep on the box. The next morning--strictly speaking it was noon, for
I slept wonderfully late that day--I was still sitting there, happy and conscious that my former
wish had been a foolish one. I inquired for the Polytechnic candidate, but he was gone, like
the Greek and Roman gods; and from that time I've been the happiest of men. I am a happy director:
none of my company ever grumble, nor my public either, for they are always merry. I can put
my pieces together just as I please. I take out of every comedy what pleases me best, and no
one is angry at it. Pieces that are neglected now-a-days by the great public, but which it
used to run after thirty years ago, and at which it used to cry till the tears ran down its
cheeks, these pieces I now take up; I put them before the little ones, and the little ones
cry just as papa and mamma used to cry thirty years ago; but I shorten them, for the youngsters
don't like a long palaver; what they want is something mournful, but quick."

THE PIGS.

Charles Dickens once told us about a pig, and since that time we are in a good humour if we
only hear one grunt. St. Antony took the pig under his protection; and when we think of the
prodigal son we always associate with him the idea of feeding swine; and it was in front of
a pig-sty that a certain carriage stopped in Sweden, about which I am going to talk. The farmer
had his pig-sty built out towards the high road, close by his house, and it was a wonderful
pig-sty. It was an old state carriage. The seats had been taken out and the wheels taken off,
and so the body of the old coach lay on the ground, and four pigs were shut up inside it. I
wonder if these were the first that had ever been there? That point could not certainly be
determined; but that it had been a real state coach everything bore witness, even to the damask
rag that hung down from the roof; everything spoke of better days.

"Humph! humph!" said the occupants, and the coach creaked and groaned; for it had come to a
mournful end. "The beautiful has departed," it sighed--or at least it might have done so.

We came back in autumn. The coach was there still, but the pigs were gone. They were playing
the grand lords out in the woods. Blossoms and leaves were gone from all the trees, and storm
and rain ruled, and gave them neither peace nor rest; and the birds of passage had flown. "The
beautiful has departed! This was the glorious green wood, but the song of the birds and the
warm sunshine are gone! gone!" Thus said the mournful voice that creaked in the lofty branches
of the trees, and it sounded like a deep-drawn sigh, a sigh from the bosom of the wild rose
tree, and of him who sat there; it was the rose king. Do you know him? He is all beard, the
finest reddish-green beard; he is easily recognized. Go up to the wild rose bushes, and when
in autumn all the flowers have faded from them, and only the wild hips remain, you will often
find under them a great red-green moss flower; and that is the rose king. A little green leaf
grows up out of his head, and that's his feather. He is the only man of his kind on the rose
bush; and he it was who sighed.

"Gone! gone! The beautiful is gone! The roses have faded, and the leaves fall down! It's wet
here! it's boisterous here! The birds who used to sing are dumb, and the pigs go out hunting
for acorns, and the pigs are the lords of the forest!"

The nights were cold and the days were misty; but, for all that, the raven sat on the branch
and sang, "Good! good!" Raven and crow sat on the high bough; and they had a large family,
who all said, "Good! good!" and the majority is always right.

Under the high trees, in the hollow, was a great puddle, and here the pigs reclined, great
and small. They found the place so inexpressibly lovely! "Oui! oui!" they all exclaimed. That
was all the French they knew, but even that was something; and they were so clever and so fat!

The old ones lay quite still, and reflected; the young ones were very busy, and were not quiet
a moment. One little porker had a twist in his tail like a ring, and this ring was his mothers's
pride: she thought all the rest were looking at the ring, and thinking only of the ring; but
that they were not doing; they were thinking of themselves and of what was useful, and what
was the use of the wood. They had always heard that the acorns they ate grew at the roots of
the trees, and accordingly they had grubbed up the ground; but there came quite a little pig--it's
always the young ones who come out with their new-fangled notions--who declared that the acorns
fell down from the branches, for one had just fallen down on his head, and the idea had struck
him at once, afterwards he had made observations, and now was quite certain on the point. The
old ones put their heads together. "Umph!" they said, "umph! The glory has departed: the twittering
of the birds is all over: we want fruit; whatever's good to eat is good, and we eat everything."

"Oui! oui!" chimed in all the rest.

But the mother now looked at her little porker, the one with the ring in his tail, "One must
not overlook the beautiful," she said. "Good! good!" cried the crow, and flew down from the
tree to try and get an appointment as nightingale; for some one must be appointed; and the
crow obtained the office directly.

"Gone! gone!" sighed the rose king. "All the beautiful is gone!"

It was boisterous, it was grey, cold, and windy; and through the forest and over the field
swept the rain in long dark streaks. Where is the bird who sang, where are the flowers upon
the meadow, and the sweet berries of the wood? Gone! gone!

Then a light gleamed from the forester's house. It was lit up like a star, and threw its long
ray among the trees. A song sounded forth out of the house! Beautiful children played there
round the old grandfather. He sat with the Bible on his knee, and read of the Creator and of
a better world, and spoke of spring that would return, of the forest that would array itself
in fresh green, of the roses that would bloom, the nightingale that would sing, and of the
beautiful that would reign in its glory again.

But the rose king heard it not, for he sat in the cold, damp weather, and sighed, "Gone! gone!"
And the pigs were the lords of the forest, and the old mother sow looked proudly at her little
porker with the twist in his tail. "There is always somebody who has a soul for the beautiful!"
she said.

ANNE LISBETH.

Anne Lisbeth had a colour like milk and blood; young, fresh, and merry, she looked beautiful,
with gleaming white teeth and clear eyes; her footstep was light in the dance, and her mind
was lighter still. And what came of it all? Her son was an ugly brat! Yes, he was not pretty;
so he was put out to be nursed by the labourer's wife. Anne Lisbeth was taken into the count's
castle, and sat there in the splendid room arrayed in silks and velvets; not a breath of wind
might blow upon her, and no one was allowed to speak a harsh word to her. No, that might not
be; for she was nurse to the count's child, which was delicate and fair as a prince, and beautiful
as an angel; and how she loved this child! A capital invention is sleep.

With years, just as weeds shoot up, Anne Lisbeth's child grew, but yet they said his growth
was stunted; but he had quite become a member of the family in which he dwelt; they had received
money to keep him. Anne Lisbeth was rid of him for good. She had become a town lady, and had
a comfortable home of her own; and out of doors she wore a bonnet, when she went out for a
walk; but she never walked out to see the labourer--that was too far from the town; and indeed
she had nothing to go for; the boy belonged to the labouring people, and she said he could
eat his food, and he should do something to earn his food, and consequently he kept Matz's
red cow. He could already tend cattle and make himself useful.

The big dog, by the yard gate of the nobleman's mansion, sits proudly in the sunshine on the
top of the kennel, and barks at every one who goes by: if it rains he creeps into his house,
and there he is warm and dry. Ann Lisbeth's boy sat in the sunshine on the fence of the field,
and cut out a pole-pin. He sat out in the rain in foul weather, and was wet to the skin, and
afterwards the cold wind dried the clothes on his back. When he came to the lordly farmyard
he was hustled and cuffed, for the men and maids declared he was horribly ugly; but he was
used to that--loved by nobody!

That was how it went with Anne Lisbeth's boy; and how could it go otherwise? It was, once for
all, his fate to be beloved by nobody.

Till now a "land crab," the land at last threw him overboard.

It was late in autumn, rough, wet, windy weather; the wind cut cold through the thickest clothing,
especially at sea; and out to sea went a wretched boat, with only two men on board, or, properly
speaking, with only a man and a half, the skipper and his boy. It had only been a kind of twilight
all day, and now it became dark; and it was bitter cold. The skipper drank a dram, which was
to warm him from within. The bottle was old, and the glass too; it was whole at the top, but
the foot was broken off, and therefore it stood upon a little carved block of wood painted
blue. The sail blew out, filled by the wind, and they drove on in wild career. It was rough
and wet around and above, and it might come worse still. Hold! what was that? what struck there?
what burst yonder? what seized the boat? It heeled, and lay on its beam ends! Was it a waterspout?
Was it a heavy sea coming suddenly down? The boy at the helm cried out aloud, "Heaven help
us!" The boat had struck on a great rock standing up from the depths of the sea, and it sank
like an old shoe in a puddle; it sank "with man and mouse," as the saying is; and there were
mice on board, but only one man and a half, the skipper and the labourer's boy. No one saw
it but the swimming seagulls, and the fishes down yonder, and even they did not see it rightly,
for they started back in terror when the water rushed into the ship, and it sank. But, indeed,
that is of no consequence. She was called Madame, and felt her dignity, when she remembered
the old "noble" days in which she had driven in the carriage, and had associated with countesses
and baronesses.

"I must once make an effort and go," said Anne Lisbeth. "I must go to my darling, to my sweet
count's child. Yes, he certainly must long to see me too, the young count; he thinks of me
and loves me as in those days when he flung his angel arms round my neck and cried 'Anne Liz.!'
It sounded like music. But before the great people went to table she was called in and accosted
very graciously. She was to see her sweet boy after dinner, and then she was to be called in again.

How tall and slender and thin he had grown! But he had still his beautiful eyes, and the angel-sweet
mouth! He looked at her, but he said not a word: certainly he did not know her. He turned round,
and was about to go away, but she seized his hand and pressed it to her mouth.

A great black raven shot down in front of her on to the high road, and croaked and croaked
again. "Ha!" she said, "what bird of ill omen art thou?"

She came past the hut of the labourer; the wife stood at the door, and the two women spoke
to one another.

"You look well," said the woman. "You are plump and fat; you're well off." Anne Lisbeth repeated;
and then nothing more was said on the subject.

Anne Lisbeth was very low-spirited because her count-child had shown no disposition to talk
with her who loved him so well, and who had journeyed all that way to get a sight of him; and
the journey had cost money too, though the pleasure she had derived from it was not great.
Still she said not a word about this. She would not relieve her heart by telling the labourer's
wife about it, lest the latter should think she did not enjoy her former position at the castle.
Then the raven screamed again, and flew past over her once more.

"The black wretch!" said Anne Lisbeth; "he'll end by frightening me to-day." She dreamed she
was sitting in the hut, where the woman was busy preparing the coffee--she could smell the
roasting coffee beans. And indeed she was on the point of falling over, with the chair on which
she sat; she was so startled and alarmed that she could not recollect what it was she had dreamed,
but she remembered that it had been something dreadful. But when she came to speak to him,
he said he should not be ready to start before the evening of the next day. She began to think
about the expense and the length of the way, and when she considered that the route by the
sea shore was shorter by two miles than the other, and that the weather was clear and the moon
shone, she determined to make her way on foot, and to start at once, that she might be at home
by next day.

The sun had set, and the evening bells, tolled in the towers of the village churches, still
sounded through the air; but no, it was not the bells, but the cry of the frogs in the marshes.
Now they were silent, and all around was still; not a bird was heard, for they were all gone
to rest; and even the owl seemed to be at home; deep silence reigned on the margin of the forest
and by the sea shore: as Anne Lisbeth walked on she could hear her own footsteps on the sand;
there was no sound of waves in the sea; everything out in the deep waters had sunk to silence.
All was quiet there, the living and the dead creatures of the sea.

Anne Lisbeth walked on "thinking of nothing at all," as the saying is, or rather, her thoughts
wandered; but thoughts had not wandered away from her, for they are never absent from us, they
only slumber. But those that have not yet stirred come forth at their time, and begin to stir
sometimes in the heart and sometimes in the head, and seem to come upon us as if from above.

It is written that a good deed bears its fruit of blessing, and it is also written that sin
is death. Much has been written and much has been said which one does not know or think of
in general; and thus it was with Anne Lisbeth. But it may happen that a light arises within
one, and that the forgotten things may approach.

All virtues and all vices lie in our hearts. There are tormenting thoughts, which one does
not feel when one walks on with slumbering senses, but they are there, fermenting in the heart.
Anne Lisbeth walked on thus with her senses half in slumber, but the thoughts were fermenting
within her. We don't think of these things, and Anne Lisbeth did not think of them. She had
committed no crime against the law of the land, she was very respectable, an honoured and well-placed
person, that she knew. "Hold fast!" thought she; and when she turned round a second time and
looked at the moon, its white face seemed quite close to her, and the mist hung like a pale
garment from her shoulders.

Here in the North the beech wood often buds in a single night, and in the morning sunlight
it appears in its full glory of youthful green; and thus in a single instant can the consciousness
unfold itself of the sin that has been contained in the thoughts, words, and works of our past
life. The heart hides within itself all the virtues and likewise all the vices, and they grow
even in the shallowest ground. It was the first hour of her awakening; full of anguish and
horror. Superstition alternately made her shudder with cold and made her blood burn with the
heat of fever. Many things of which she had never liked to speak came into her mind. Silent
as the cloud shadows in the bright moonshine, a spectral apparition flitted by her: she had
heard of it before. Close by her gallopped four snorting steeds, with fire spurting from their
eyes and nostrils; they dragged a red-hot coach, and within it sat the wicked proprietor who
had ruled here a hundred years ago. The legend said that every night at twelve o'clock he drove
into his castle yard and out again. There! there! He was not pale as dead men are said to be,
but black as a coal. He nodded at Anne Lisbeth and beckoned to her. Anne Lisbeth was in a fever.
Conscience had shuffled the cards of superstition, and had laid out these cards, and she fancied
she had only half a soul, and that her child had taken the other half down into the sea. Her
physical forces were almost exhausted, but her eyes gleamed brightly, and her cheeks had a
rosy flush. She said she was happy, for now she had conquered.

CHARMING.

Alfred the sculptor--you know him? We all know him: he won the great gold medal, and got a
travelling scholarship, went to Italy, and then came back to his native land. He was young
in those days, and indeed he is young yet, though he is ten years older than he was then.

After his return he visited one of the little provincial towns on the island of Seeland. The
whole town knew who the stranger was, and one of the richest persons gave a party in honour
of him, and all who were of any consequence, or possessed any property, were invited. It was
quite an event, and all the town knew of it without its being announced by beat of drum. She
was very appreciative, and incredibly ignorant--a kind of female Caspar Hauser.

"I should like to see Rome," she said. "It must be a lovely city, with all the strangers who
are continually arriving there. Now, do give us a description of Rome. How does the city look
when you come in by the gate?"

"I cannot very well describe it," replied the sculptor. "A great open place, and in the midst
of it an obelisk, which is a thousand years old."

"An organist!" exclaimed the lady, who had never met with the word obelisk.

And the young man considerately answered, as if the question had been better put, "No, he does
not come of a great family."

"That's not what I mean," the widow persisted. "I mean, has he a wife and children?"

"The Pope is not allowed to marry," said the gentleman.

"I don't like that," was the lady's comment.

She certainly might have put more sensible questions; but if she had not spoken in just the
manner she used, would her daughter have leant so gracefully on her shoulder, looking straight
out with the almost mournful smile upon her face?

Then Mr. Alfred spoke again, and told of the glory of colour in Italy, of the purple hills,
the blue Mediterranean, the azure sky of the South, whose brightness and glory was only surpassed
in the North by a maiden's deep blue eyes. And this he said with a peculiar application; but
she who should have understood his meaning, looked as if she were quite unconscious of it,
and that again was charming!

"Italy!" sighed a few of the guests. "Oh, to travel!" sighed others. "Charming, charming!"
chorused they all.

"Yes, if I win a hundred thousand dollars in the lottery," said the head tax-collector's lady,
"then we will travel. I and my daughter, and you, Mr. Alfred; you must be our guide. We'll
all three travel together, and one or two good friends more." And she nodded in such a friendly
way at the company, that each one might imagine he or she was the person who was to be taken
to Italy. "Yes, we will go to Italy! but not to those parts where there are robbers--we'll
keep to Rome, and to the great high roads where one is safe."

And the daughter sighed very quietly. And how much may lie in one little sigh, or be placed
in it! The young man placed a great deal in it.

The house of the head tax-collector's widow was the one which Mr. Alfred the sculptor most
assiduously frequented; and it was understood that his visits were not intended for that lady,
though he and she were the people who kept up the conversation; he came for the daughter's
sake. They called her Kala. Her name was really Calen Malena, and these two names had been
contracted into the one name, Kala. She sleeps rather late, but that makes her eyes so clear."

What a power lay in the depths of these dark blue eyes! "Still waters run deep." The young
man felt the truth of this proverb; and his heart had sunk into the depths. He spoke and told
his adventures, and the mamma was as simple and eager in her questioning as on the first evening
of their meeting.

It was a pleasure to hear Alfred describe anything. He spoke of Naples, of excursions to Mount
Vesuvius, and showed coloured prints of several of the eruptions. And the head tax-collector's
widow had never heard of them before, or taken time to consider the question.

"Good heavens!" she exclaimed. "So that is a burning mountain! But is it not dangerous to the
people round about?"

"Whole cities have been destroyed," he answered; "for instance, Pompeii and Herculaneum."

"But the poor people!--And you saw all that with your own eyes?"

"No, I did not see any of the eruptions represented in these pictures, but I will show you
a picture of my own, of an eruption I saw." After all, it was of no consequence, for Kala's
mamma had the best of all things--namely, Kala herself.

And Alfred and Kala were betrothed, which was natural enough, and the betrothal was announced
in the little newspaper of the town.

"For you are a continuation of Thorwaldsen," she said to Alfred. And it seemed to Alfred that
mamma had in this instance said a clever thing. Kala said nothing; but her eyes shone, her
lips smiled, her every movement was graceful: yes, she was beautiful; that cannot be too often
repeated.

Alfred undertook to take a bust of Kala and of his mother-in-law. They sat to him accordingly,
and saw how he moulded and smoothed the soft clay with his fingers.

"I suppose it's only on our account," said mamma-in-law, "that you undertake this commonplace
work, and don't leave your servant to do all that sticking together."

"It is highly necessary that I should mould the clay myself," he replied.

"Ah, yes, you are so very polite," retorted mamma; and Kala silently pressed his hand, still
soiled by the clay.

And he unfolded to both of them the loveliness of nature in creation, pointing out how the
living stood higher in the scale than the dead creature, how the plant was developed beyond
the mineral, the animal beyond the plant, and man beyond the animal. He strove to show them
how mind and beauty become manifest in outward form, and how it was the sculptor's task to
seize that beauty and to manifest it in his works.

Kala stood silent, and nodded approbation of the expressed thought, while mamma-in-law made
the following confession:

"It's difficult to follow all that. But I manage to hobble after you with my thoughts, though
they whirl round and round, but I contrive to hold them fast."

And Kala's beauty held Alfred fast, filled his soul, and seized and mastered him.

The magic of form had enchanted him. He had looked at the case, and cared not to inquire what
the case contained, and that omission brings unhappiness, much unhappiness, into married life;
for the case may be broken, and the gilt may come off; and then the purchaser may repent his
bargain. In a large party it is very disagreeable to observe that one's buttons are giving
way, and that there are no buckles to fall back upon; but it is worse still in a great company
to become aware that wife and mother-in-law are talking nonsense, and that one cannot depend
upon oneself for a happy piece of wit to carry off the stupidity of the thing.

The young married pair often sat hand in hand, he speaking and she letting fall a word here
and there--the same melody, the same clear, bell-like sounds. She was a very sensible girl,
and it never occurred to her that she might become at all dangerous here. Her appearance was
like a pleasant breath of air in the doll's house; and air was certainly required here, as
they all acknowledged. They felt they wanted airing, and consequently they came out into the
air, and mamma-in-law and the young couple travelled to Italy.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Thank Heaven that we are in our own four walls again," was the exclamation of mother and daughter
when they came home, a year after.

"There's no pleasure in travelling," said mamma-in-law. "To tell the truth, it's very wearisome--I
beg pardon for saying so. I found the time hang heavy, though I had my children with me; and
it's expensive work, travelling, very expensive! And all those galleries one has to see, and
the quantity of things you are obliged to run after!

"And what bad living you get!" said Kala.

"Yes," replied mamma, "no such thing as an honest meat soup. It's miserable trash, their cookery."

And the travelling fatigued Kala: she was always fatigued, that was the worst of it. Sophy
was taken into the house, where her presence was a real advantage.

Mamma-in-law acknowledged that Sophy understood both housewifery and art, though a knowledge
of the latter could not be expected from a person of her limited means; and she was, moreover,
an honest, faithful girl; she showed that thoroughly while Kala lay sick--fading away.

Where the case is everything, the case should be strong, or else all is over. And all was over
with the case--Kala died.

"She was beautiful," said mamma, "she was quite different from the antiques, for they are so
damaged.

"He's gone to the very extreme," cried mamma-in-law; "he has gone from the most beautiful to
the ugliest, and he has forgotten his first wife. Men have no endurance. My husband was of
a different stamp, and he died before me."

"Pygmalion received his Galatea," said Alfred: "yes, that's what they said in the wedding song.
The chief thing remains the chief. You came to teach the sculptor that his work is but clay
and dust, only an outward form in a fabric that passes away, and that we must seek the essence,
the internal spirit. Poor Kala! ours was but wayfarers' life. Yonder, where we shall know each
other by sympathy, we shall be half strangers."

"That was not lovingly spoken," said Sophy, "not spoken like a Christian. Yonder, where there
is no giving in marriage, but where, as you say, souls attract each other by sympathy; there
where everything beautiful develops itself and is elevated, her soul may acquire such completeness
that it may sound more harmoniously than mine; and you will then once more utter the first
raptured exclamation of your love, Beautiful--most beautiful!"

IN THE DUCK-YARD.

A duck arrived from Portugal. Some said she came from Spain, but that's all the same. At any
rate she was called the Portuguese, and laid eggs, and was killed and cooked, and that was
her career. But the ducklings which crept forth from her eggs were afterwards also called Portuguese,
and there is something in that. Now, of the whole family there was only one left in the duck-yard,
a yard to which the chickens had access likewise, and where the cock strutted about in a very
aggressive manner. How charmingly they sing! There's something quite pretty in their warbling.
I call it Portugal. If I had only such a little singing bird, I'd be a mother to him, kind
and good, for that's in my blood, my Portuguese blood!"

And while she was still speaking, a little singing bird came head over heels from the roof
into the yard. "That's a good deed," she said: "the others may take example by it." "You are
very kind-hearted, madam," he said; but he did not wish for a second bath. I myself am from
a strange country, as you may see from my bearing, and from my feathery dress. My drake is
a native of these parts, he's not of my race; but for all that I'm not proud! It was too witty!
And all the other ducks now began to notice the little singing bird.

"The Portuguese has certainly a greater command of language," they said. "For our part, we
don't care to fill our beaks with such long words, but our sympathy is just as great. If we
don't do anything for you, we march about with you everywhere; and we think that the best thing
we can do."

"You have a lovely voice," said one of the oldest. "It must be a great satisfaction to be able
to give so much pleasure as you are able to impart.

"The water-cure is the only remedy for me when I am unwell," quoth the Portuguese. "Amusement
is beneficial too!

And the fowls came, and the cock came; to-day he was polite enough to abstain from being rude.

"You are a true singing bird," he said, "and you do as much with your little voice as can possibly
be done with it. But one requires a little more shrillness, that every hearer may hear that
one is a male."

The two Chinese stood quite enchanted with the appearance of the singing bird. He looked very
much rumpled after his bath, so that he seemed to them to have quite the appearance of a little
Cochin China fowl. "He's charming," they cried, and began a conversation with him, speaking
in whispers, and using the most aristocratic Chinese dialect.

"We are of your race," they continued. But that does not disturb us: we quietly pursue our
path amid the others, whose principles are certainly not ours; for we look at things on the
favourable side, and only speak of what is good, though it is difficult sometimes to find something
when nothing exists. Except us two and the cock, there's no one in the whole poultry-yard who
is at once talented and polite. It cannot even be said of the inhabitants of the duck-yard.
We warn you, little singing bird: don't trust that one yonder with the short tail feathers,
for she's cunning. "They annoy me--we have never spoken to them." He's only a plaything, and
if one has them, why, one has them."

"Don't attach any value to what he says," the Portuguese whispered. "He's very respectable
in business matters; and with him business takes precedence of everything. But now I shall
lie down for a rest. One owes that to oneself, that one may be nice and fat when one is to
be embalmed with apples and plums."

And accordingly she lay down in the sun, and winked with one eye; and she lay very comfortably,
and she felt very comfortable, and she slept very comfortably.

The little singing bird busied himself with his broken wing.

But the neighbour's fowls were awake. They went about scratching up the earth; and, to tell
the truth, they had paid the visit simply and solely to find food for themselves. The Chinese
were the first to leave the duck-yard; and the other fowls soon followed them. The witty little
duck said of the Portuguese that the old lady was becoming a ducky dotard. At this the other
ducks laughed and cackled aloud. "Ducky dotard," they whispered; "that's too witty!" and then
they repeated the former joke about Portulak, and declared that it was vastly amusing. And
then they lay down.

They had been lying asleep for some time, when suddenly something was thrown into the yard
for them to eat. It came down with such a thwack, that the whole company started up from sleep
and clapped their wings. The Portuguese awoke too, and threw herself over on the other side,
pressing the little singing bird very hard as she did so.

"Piep!" he cried; "you trod very hard upon me, madam."

"Well, why do you lie in my way?" the duck retorted. "You must not be so touchy. When this
was ended, and she lay down again, the little bird came up, and wanted to be amiable, and sang:

      "Tillee-lilly lee,
    Of the good spring time,
    I'll sing so fine
      As far away I flee."

"Now I want to rest after my dinner," said the Portuguese. "You must conform to the rules of
the house while you're here. I want to sleep now."

"Yesterday it was sunshine here," said the little bird, "but to-day it's cloudy and the air
is close."

"You don't know much about the weather, I fancy," retorted the Portuguese.

And so saying, she bit off the singing bird's head, and he lay dead on the ground.

"Now, what's the meaning of this?" she said, "could he not bear even that? Then certainly he
was not made for this world. I've been like a mother to him I know that, for I've a good heart."

"There's not much lying where he fell!" observed the cock.

"Speak of him with respect," retorted the Portuguese duck, "for he had song, manners, and education.
He was affectionate and soft, and that's as good in animals, as in your so-called human beings."

"We shall never get such a singing bird again; he was almost a Chinese," they whispered, and
they wept with a mighty clucking sound, and all the fowls clucked too; but the ducks went about
with the redder eyes.

"We've hearts of our own," they said; "nobody can deny that."

"Hearts!" repeated the Portuguese, "yes, that we have, almost as much as in Portugal."

"Let us think of getting something to satisfy our hunger," said the drake, "for that's the
most important point. If one of our toys is broken, why, we have plenty more!"

THE GIRL WHO TROD ON THE LOAF.

The story of the girl who trod on the loaf, to avoid soiling her shoes, and of the misfortunes
that befell this girl, is well known. It has been written, and even printed.

The girl's name was Ingé; she was a poor child, but proud and presumptuous; there was a bad
foundation in her, as the saying is. When she was quite a little child, it was her delight
to catch flies, and tear off their wings, so as to convert them into creeping things.

"The cockchafer is reading," Ingé would say. "See how he turns the leaf round and round!"

With years she grew worse rather than better; but she was pretty, and that was her misfortune;
otherwise she would have been more sharply reproved than she was.

"Your headstrong will requires something strong to break it!" her own mother often said. "As
a little child, you used to trample on my apron; but I fear you will one day trample on my heart."

And that is what she really did.

She was sent into the country, into service in the house of rich people, who kept her as their
own child, and dressed her in corresponding style. She looked well, and her presumption increased.

When she had been there about a year, her mistress said to her, "You ought once to visit your
parents, Ingé."

And another half-year went by, and her mistress said again, "You ought to go to your home,
and visit your old parents, Ingé. I'll make you a present of a great wheaten loaf that you
may give to them; they will certainly be glad to see you again."

And Ingé put on her best clothes, and her new shoes, and drew her skirts around her, and set
out, stepping very carefully, that she might be clean and neat about the feet; and there was
no harm in that.

And that's the story.

But whither did Ingé go? She sank into the moor ground, and went down to the moor woman, who
is always brewing there. The moor woman is cousin to the elf maidens, who are well enough known,
of whom songs are sung, and whose pictures are painted; but concerning the moor woman it is
only known that when the meadows steam in summer-time it is because she is brewing. Into the
moor woman's brewery did Ingé sink down; and no one can endure that place long. A box of mud
is a palace compared with the moor woman's brewery. Every barrel there has an odour that almost
takes away one's senses; and the barrels stand close to each other; and wherever there is a
little opening among them, through which one might push one's way, the passage becomes impracticable
from the number of damp toads and fat snakes who sit out their time there. Among this company
did Ingé fall; and all the horrible mass of living creeping things was so icy cold, that she
shuddered in all her limbs, and became stark and stiff. She continued fastened to the loaf,
and the loaf drew her down as an amber button draws a fragment of straw.

The moor woman was at home, and on that day there were visitors in the brewery. These visitors
were old Bogey and his grandmother, who came to inspect it; and Bogey's grandmother is a venomous
old woman, who is never idle: she never rides out to pay a visit without taking her work with
her; and, accordingly, she had brought it on the day in question. She sewed biting-leather
to be worked into men's shoes, and which makes them wander about unable to settle anywhere.
She wove webs of lies, and strung together hastily-spoken words that had fallen to the ground;
and all this was done for the injury and ruin of mankind. Yes, indeed, she knew how to sew,
to weave, and to string, this old grandmother!

Catching sight of Ingé, she put up her double eye-glass, and took another look at the girl.
"That's a girl who has ability!" she observed, "and I beg you will give me the little one as
a memento of my visit here. She'll make a capital statue to stand in my grandson's antechamber."

And Ingé was given up to her, and this is how Ingé came into Bogey's domain. People don't always
go there by the direct path, but they can get there by roundabout routes if they have a tendency
in that direction.

That was a never-ending antechamber. The visitor became giddy who looked forward, and doubly
giddy when he looked back, and saw a whole crowd of people, almost utterly exhausted, waiting
till the gate of mercy should be opened to them--they had to wait a long time! Great fat waddling
spiders spun webs of a thousand years over their feet, and these webs cut like wire, and bound
them like bronze fetters; and, moreover, there was an eternal unrest working in every heart--a
miserable unrest. The miser stood there, and had forgotten the key of his strong box, and he
knew the key was sticking in the lock. It would take too long to describe the various sorts
of torture that were found there together. Ingé felt a terrible pain while she had to stand
there as a statue, for she was tied fast to the loaf.

"That's the fruit of wishing to keep one's feet neat and tidy," she said to herself. "Just
look how they're all staring at me!" Yes, certainly, the eyes of all were fixed upon her, and
their evil thoughts gleamed forth from their eyes, and they spoke to one another, moving their
lips, from which no sound whatever came forth: they were very horrible to behold.

"It must be a great pleasure to look at me!" thought Ingé, "and indeed I have a pretty face
and fine clothes." And she turned her eyes, for she could not turn her head; her neck was too
stiff for that. But she had not considered how her clothes had been soiled in the moor woman's
brewhouse. Her garments were covered with mud; a snake had fastened in her hair, and dangled
down her back; and out of each fold of her frock a great toad looked forth, croaking like an
asthmatic poodle. That was very disconcerting. "But all the rest of them down here look horrible,"
she observed to herself, and derived consolation from the thought. And then the flies came
up, and crept to and fro over her eyes, and she blinked her eyes, but the flies would not go
away, for they could not fly: their wings had been pulled out, so that they were converted
into creeping insects: it was horrible torment added to the hunger, for she felt empty, quite,
entirely empty. "If this lasts much longer," she said, "I shall not be able to bear it." But
she had to bear it, and it lasted on and on.

Then a hot tear fell down upon her head, rolled over her face and neck, down on to the loaf
on which she stood; and then another tear rolled down, followed by many more. Who might be
weeping for Ingé? Had she not still a mother in the world? The tears of sorrow which a mother
weeps for her child always make their way to the child; but they do not relieve it, they only
increase its torment. And now to bear this unendurable hunger, and yet not to be able to touch
the loaf on which she stood! She felt as if she had been feeding on herself, and had become
like a thin, hollow reed that takes in every sound, for she heard everything that was said
of her up in the world, and all that she heard was hard and evil. Her mother, indeed, wept
much and sorrowed for her, but for all that she said, "A haughty spirit goes before a fall.
That was thy ruin, Ingé. Thou hast sorely grieved thy mother."

Her mother and all on earth knew of the sin she had committed; knew that she had trodden upon
the loaf, and had sunk and disappeared; for the cowherd had seen it from the hill beside the moor.

"Greatly hast thou grieved thy mother, Ingé," said the mother; "yes, yes, I thought it would
be thus."

"Oh that I never had been born!" thought Ingé; "it would have been far better. But what use
is my mother's weeping now?"

And she heard how her master and mistress, who had kept and cherished her like kind parents,
now said she was a sinful child, and did not value the gifts of God, but trampled them under
her feet, and that the gates of mercy would only open slowly to her.

"They should have punished me," thought Ingé, "and have driven out the whims I had in my head."

She heard how a complete song was made about her, a song of the proud girl who trod upon the
loaf to keep her shoes clean, and she heard how the song was sung everywhere.

"That I should have to bear so much evil for this!" thought Ingé; "the others ought to be punished,
too, for their sins. Yes, then there would be plenty of punishing to do. Ah, how I'm being
tortured!" And her heart became harder than her outward form.

"Here in this company one can't even become better," she said, "and I don't want to become
better! Look, how they're all staring at me!"

And her heart was full of anger and malice against all men. "Now they've something to talk
about at last up yonder. Ah, how I'm being tortured!"

And then she heard how her story was told to the little children, and the little ones called
her the godless Ingé, and said she was so naughty and ugly that she must be well punished.

Thus, even the children's mouths spoke hard words of her.

But one day, while grief and hunger gnawed her hollow frame, and she heard her name mentioned
and her story told to an innocent child, a little girl, she became aware that the little one
burst into tears at the tale of the haughty, vain Ingé.

"But will Ingé never come up here again?" asked the little girl.

And the reply was, "She will never come up again."

"But if she were to say she was sorry, and to beg pardon, and say she would never do so again?"

"Yes, then she might come; but she will not beg pardon," was the reply.

"I should be so glad if she would," said the little girl; and she was quite inconsolable. "I'll
give my doll and all my playthings if she may only come up. It's too dreadful--poor Ingé!"

And these words penetrated to Ingé's inmost heart, and seemed to do her good.

While years were passing above her, for where she was there was no change, she heard herself
spoken of more and more seldom. At last, one day a sigh struck on her ear: "Ingé, Ingé, how
you have grieved me! I said how it would be!" It was the last sigh of her dying mother.

Occasionally she heard her name spoken by her former employers, and they were pleasant words
when the woman said, "Shall I ever see thee again, Ingé? One knows not what may happen."

But Ingé knew right well that her good mistress would never come to the place where she was.

And again time went on--a long, bitter time. Then Ingé heard her name pronounced once more,
and saw two bright stars that seemed gleaming above her. They were two gentle eyes closing
upon earth. So many years had gone by since the little girl had been inconsolable and wept
about "poor Ingé," that the child had become an old woman, who was now to be called home to
heaven; and in the last hour of existence, when the events of the whole life stand at once
before us, the old woman remembered how as a child she had cried heartily at the story of Ingé.

And the eyes of the old woman closed, and the eye of her soul was opened to look upon the hidden
things. And her tears and prayers sounded like an echo in the dark empty space that surrounded
the tormented captive soul, and the unhoped-for love from above conquered her, for an angel
was weeping for her. Why was this vouchsafed to her? The tormented soul seemed to gather in
her thoughts every deed she had done on earth, and she, Ingé, trembled and wept such tears
as she had never yet wept. She was filled with sorrow about herself: it seemed as though the
gate of mercy could never open to her; and while in deep penitence she acknowledged this, a
beam, of light shot radiantly down into the depths to her, with a greater force than that of
the sunbeam which melts the snow man the boys have built up; and quicker than the snow-flake
melts, and becomes a drop of water that falls on the warm lips of a child, the stony form of
Ingé was changed to mist, and a little bird soared with the speed of lightning upward into
the world of men. But the bird was timid and shy towards all things around; he was ashamed
of himself, ashamed to encounter any living thing, and hurriedly sought to conceal himself
in a dark hole in an old crumbling wall; there he sat cowering, trembling through his whole
frame, and unable to utter a sound, for he had no voice. Long he sat there, before he could
rightly see all the beauty around him; for it was beautiful. The air was fresh and mild, the
moon cast its mild radiance over the earth; trees and bushes exhaled fragrance, and it was
right pleasant where he sat, and his coat of feathers was clean and pure. How all creation
seemed to speak of beneficence and love! The bird wanted to sing of the thoughts that stirred
in his breast, but he could not; gladly would he have sung as the cuckoo and the nightingale
sung in spring-time. But Heaven, that hears the mute song of praise of the worm, could hear
the notes of praise which now trembled in the breast of the bird, as David's psalms were heard
before they had fashioned themselves into words and song.

For weeks these toneless songs stirred within the bird; at last, the holy Christmas-time approached.
Then out of the hole in the wall streamed forth the voice of another bird, and the bird soared
forth from its hiding-place; and in heaven it was well known what bird this was.

It was a hard winter. The ponds were covered with ice, and the beasts of the field and the
birds of the air were stinted for food. Our little bird soared away over the high road, and
in the ruts of the sledges he found here and there a grain of corn, and at the halting-places
some crumbs. Of these he ate only a few, but he called all the other hungry sparrows around
him, that they, too, might have some food.

In the course of the winter, the bird had collected so many bread crumbs, and given them to
the other birds, that they equalled the weight of the loaf on which Ingé had trod to keep her
shoes clean; and when the last bread crumb had been found and given, the grey wings of the
bird became white, and spread far out. It gleamed white; but no one could tell whither it went,
though some asserted that it flew straight into the sun.

A STORY FROM THE SAND-DUNES.

This is a story from the sand-dunes or sand-hills of Jutland; though it does not begin in Jutland,
the northern peninsula, but far away in the south, in Spain. The ocean is the high road between
the nations--transport thyself thither in thought to sunny Spain. There it is warm and beautiful,
there the fiery pomegranate blossoms flourish among the dark laurels; from the mountains a
cool refreshing wind blows down, upon, and over the orange gardens, over the gorgeous Moorish
halls with their golden cupolas and coloured walls: through the streets go children in procession,
with candles and with waving flags, and over them, lofty and clear, rises the sky with its
gleaming stars. There is a sound of song and of castagnettes, and youths and maidens join in
the dance under the blooming acacias, while the mendicant sits upon the hewn marble stone,
refreshing himself with the juicy melon, and dreamily enjoying life. The whole is like a glorious
dream. And there was a newly married couple who completely gave themselves up to its charm;
moreover, they possessed the good things of this life, health and cheerfulness of soul, riches
and honour.

"We are as happy as it is possible to be," exclaimed the young couple, from the depths of their
hearts They had indeed but one step more to mount in the ladder of happiness, in the hope that
God would give them a child; a son like them in form and in spirit.

The happy child would be welcomed with rejoicing, would be tended with all care and love, and
enjoy every advantage that wealth and ease possessed by an influential family could give.

And the days went by like a glad festival. I cannot compass the thought."

"Surely you do not doubt the future life?" exclaimed the young wife; and it seemed as if one
of the first shadows flitted over the sunny heaven of her thoughts.

"Faith promises it, and the priests tells us so!" replied the man; "but amid all my happiness,
I feel that it is arrogance to demand a continued happiness, another life after this. Has not
so much been given us in this state of existence, that we ought to be, that we must be, contented
with it?"

"Yes, it has been given to us," said the young wife, "but to how many thousands is not this
life one scene of hard trial? How many have been thrown into this world, as if only to suffer
poverty and shame and sickness and misfortune? If there were no life after this, everything
on earth would be too unequally distributed, and the Almighty would not be justice itself."
The dumb beast might likewise demand a future life, and declare the decree unjust that does
not admit it into a higher place of creation."

"HE has said, 'In my Father's house are many mansions,'" replied the young wife: "heaven is
immeasurable, as the love of our Maker is immeasurable. Even the dumb beast is His creature;
and I firmly believe that no life will be lost, but that each will receive that amount of happiness
which he can enjoy, and which is sufficient for him."

"This world is sufficient for me!" said the man, and he threw his arms round his beautiful,
amiable wife, and then smoked his cigarette on the open balcony, where the cool air was filled
with the fragrance of oranges and pinks. The sound of music and the clatter of castagnettes
came up from the road, the stars gleamed above, and two eyes full of affection, the eyes of
his wife, looked on him with the undying glance of love.

"Such a moment," he said, "makes it worth while to be born, to fall, and to disappear!" and
he smiled. The young wife raised her hand in mild reproach, and the shadow passed away from
her world, and they were happy--quite happy.

Everything seemed to work together for them. They advanced in honour, in prosperity, and in
joy. There was a change, indeed, but only a change of place; not in enjoyment of life and of
happiness. The young man was sent by his sovereign as ambassador to the court of Russia. This
was an honourable office, and his birth and his acquirements gave him a title to be thus honoured.

In an old heroic song, "The King's Son of England," it says, "Moreover, he sailed in a gallant
ship, and the anchor was gilded with ruddy gold, and each rope was woven through with silk,"
And this ship involuntarily rose in the mind of him who saw the vessel from Spain, for here
was the same pomp, and the same parting thought naturally arose--the thought:

    "God grant that we all in joy
    Once more may meet again."

And the wind blew fairly seaward from the Spanish shore, and the parting was to be but a brief
one, for in a few weeks the voyagers would reach their destination; but when they came out
upon the high seas, the wind sank, the sea became calm and shining, the stars of heaven gleamed
brightly, and they were festive evenings that were spent in the sumptuous cabin.

At length the voyagers began to wish for wind, for a favouring breeze; but the breeze would
not blow, or, if it did arise, it was contrary.

    "And it blew a storm, and the rain came down,
    And they found not land nor shelter,
    And forth they threw their anchor of gold,
    As the wind blew westward, toward Denmark." Sea and
moorland have been converted into green meadows, heath has become
arable land, and in the shelter of the West Jute huts grow apple trees
and rose bushes, though they certainly require to be sought for, as
they bend beneath the sharp west wind. As it did then, in Jutland, the brown heath
now also extends for miles, with its "Hun's Graves," its aërial
spectacles, and its crossing, sandy, uneven roads; westward, where
large rivulets run into the bays, extend marshes and meadow land,
girdled with lofty sand-hills, which, like a row of Alps, raise their
peaked summits towards the sea, only broken by the high clayey ridges,
from which the waves year by year bite out huge mouthfuls, so that the
impending shores fall down as if by the shock of an earthquake. Thus
it is there to-day, and thus it was many, many years ago, when the
happy pair were sailing in the gorgeous ship.

It was in the last days of September, a Sunday, and sunny weather; the chiming of the church
bells in the bay of Nissum was wafted along like a chain of sounds. The churches there are
erected almost entirely of hewn boulder stones, each like a piece of rock; the North Sea might
foam over them, and they would not be overthrown. Most of them are without steeples, and the
bells are hung between two beams in the open air. The wind and the sea fog soon destroy the
wood. One of these blocks had been placed by loving hands on a child's grave, and one of the
women, who had come out of the church, stepped towards it. She stood still in front of it,
and let her glance rest on the discoloured memorial. A few moments afterwards her husband stepped
up to her. Neither of them spoke a word, but he took her hand, and they wandered across the
brown heath, over moor and meadow, towards the sand-hills; for a long time they thus walked
silently side by side.

"That was a good sermon to-day," the man said at length. "If we had not God to look to, we
should have nothing!"

"Yes," observed the woman, "He sends joy and sorrow, and He has a right to send them. To-morrow
our little boy would have been five years old, if we had been allowed to keep him."

"You will gain nothing by fretting, wife," said the man. "The boy is well provided for. He
is there whither we pray to go."

And they said nothing more, but went forward to their house among the sand-hills. Suddenly,
in front of one of the houses where the sea grass did not keep the sand down with its twining
roots, there arose what appeared to be a column of smoke rising into the air. A gust of wind
swept in among the hills, whirling the particles of sand high in the air. Another, and the
strings of fish hung up to dry flapped and beat violently against the wall of the hut; and
then all was still again, and the sun shone down hotly.

Man and wife stepped into the house. The wind now blew more sharply than before; it was cutting
and cold: and when they went back over the sand-hills, sand and little pointed stones blew
into their faces. The waves reared themselves up with their white crowns of foam, and the wind
cut off their crests, flinging the foam far around.

The evening came on. The fisher people had long gone to bed, but in such weather there was
no chance of closing an eye. Presently there was a knocking at the window, and the door was
opened, and a voice said:

"There's a great ship fast stranded on the outermost reef."

In a moment the fish people had sprung from their couch, and hastily arrayed themselves. It
required a practised eye to descry the vessel out in the offing. The vessel was a noble brig.
The billows now lifted it over the reef, three or four cables' lengths out of the usual channel.
It drove towards the land, struck against the second reef, and remained fixed.

To render assistance was impossible; the sea rolled fairly in upon the vessel, making a clean
breach over her. Those on shore fancied they heard the cries of help from on board, and could
plainly descry the busy useless efforts made by the stranded crew. Now a wave came rolling
onward, falling like a rock upon the bowsprit, and tearing it from the brig. The stern was
lifted high above the flood. It was a woman, and appeared quite dead, said the sailors; but
some women thought they discerned signs of life in her, and the stranger was carried across
the sand-hills into the fisherman's hut. How beautiful and fair she was! certainly she must
be a great lady. It was with her ship as with the vessel in the song of "The King's Son of
England."

    "Alas, it was a grief to see
    How the gallant ship sank speedily."

Portions of wreck and fragments of wood drifted ashore, and they were all that remained of
what had been the ship. The wind still drove howling over the coast. For a few moments the
strange lady seemed to rest; but she awoke in pain, and cries of anguish and fear came from
her lips. She opened her wonderfully beautiful eyes, and spoke a few words, but none understood
her.

And behold, as a reward for the pain and sorrow she had undergone, she held in her arms a new-born
child, the child that was to have rested upon a gorgeous couch, surrounded by silken curtains,
in the sumptuous home. It was to have been welcomed with joy to a life rich in all the goods
of the earth; and now Providence had caused it to be born in this humble retreat, and not even
a kiss did it receive from its mother. The hard, inhuman days in which, as we have stated,
the inhabitants of the Jutland shores did evil to the shipwrecked, were long past. Affection
and sympathy and self-sacrifice for the unfortunate were to be found, as they are to be found
in our own time, in many a brilliant example. The pieces of wreck said nothing on the subject.

Into the rich house in Spain no tidings penetrated of the fate of the daughter and the son-in-law.

And they called the boy Jürgen.

"It must certainly be a Jewish child," the people said, "it looks so swarthy."

"It might be an Italian or a Spaniard," observed the clergyman. Such may be a man's fate! To
this home he clung with the roots of his whole being. He was to have experience of cold and
hunger, and the misfortunes and hardships that surrounded the humble; but he tasted also of
the poor man's joys.

Childhood has sunny heights for all, whose memory gleams through the whole after life. The
boy had many opportunities for pleasure and play. How readily he retained in his mind the stories
and songs he heard, and how neat-handed he was! His voice sounded sweetly; every melody flowed
at once from his lips. Among other things, a chest of rare flower bulbs floated ashore. Some
were put into the cooking pots, for they were thought to be eatable, and others lay and shrivelled
in the sand, but they did not accomplish their purpose, or unfold the richness of colour whose
germ was within them. Would it be better with Jürgen? The flower bulbs had soon played their
part, but he had still years of apprenticeship before him.

Neither he nor his friends remarked in what a solitary and uniform way one day succeeded another;
for there was plenty to do and to see. The sea itself was a great lesson book, unfolding a
new leaf every day, such as calm and storm, breakers and waifs. The visits to the church were
festal visits. But among the festal visits in the fisherman's house, one was particularly distinguished.
It was repeated twice in the year, and was, in fact, the visit of the brother of Jürgen's foster-mother,
the eel breeder from Zjaltring, upon the neighbourhood of the "Bow Hill." He used to come in
a cart painted red, and filled with eels. The cart was covered and locked like a box, and painted
all over with blue and white tulips. As, during his childhood, and even later, Jürgen used
many expressions from this story of the eel breeder's, and made use of it in various ways,
it is as well that we should listen to it too. 'No,' replied the daughters, 'for he ate them
up.' 'They'll come again,' repeated the mother-eel. Four merry days, the happiest of his childhood,
unrolled themselves, and the whole beauty and splendour of Jutland, all the joy and sunshine
of his home, was concentrated in these. He was to go to a festival--though it was certainly
a burial feast.

A wealthy relative of the fisherman's family had died. The farm lay deep in the country, eastward,
and a point towards the north, as the saying is. Jürgen's foster-parents were to go, and he
was to accompany them from the dunes, across heath and moor. They came to the green meadows
where the river Skjärn rolls its course, the river of many eels, where mother-eels dwell with
their daughters, who are caught and eaten up by wicked people. The wall on the ramparts still
remained, and red crumbling fragments lay strewn around. And indeed so it chanced, a hundred
years later; for the North Sea broke in, and the tower was cast down, but the man who then
possessed the castle, Prebjörn Gyldenstjerne, built a new castle higher up, at the end of the
meadow, and that stands to this day, and is called Nörre Vosborg.

Past this castle went Jürgen and his foster-parents. He never forgot it, nor the lime tree:
the child's soul treasured up these remembrances of beauty and fragrance to gladden the old man.

From Nörre Vosborg, where the juniper blossomed, the way went more easily; for they encountered
other guests who were also bound for the burial, and were riding in waggons. Our travellers
had to sit all together on a little box at the back of the waggon, but even this was preferable
to walking, they thought. So they pursued their journey in the waggon across the rugged heath.
It seemed to him as if they were now going to enter fairyland, though everything was still real.

How quiet it was! Far and wide the heath extended around them like a beautiful carpet. The
old man who guided the oxen related how, in the lifetime of his father, the horses had to sustain
many a hard fight with the wild beasts that were now extinct; and how he himself, when he went
out one morning to bring in the horses, had found one of them standing with its fore-feet on
a wolf it had killed, after the savage beast had torn and lacerated the legs of the brave horse.

The journey over the heath and the deep sand was only too quickly accomplished. The wind had
lifted and carried them hither, and to them also a history was attached.

Psalms were sung, and a few of the old people shed tears; beyond this, the guests were cheerful
enough, as it appeared to Jürgen, and there was plenty to eat and drink. Eels there were of
the fattest, upon which brandy should be poured to bury them, as the eel breeder said; and
certainly his maxim was here carried out.

Jürgen went to and fro in the house. On the third day he felt quite at home, like as in the
fisherman's hut on the sand-hills where he had passed his early days. Here on the heath there
was certainly an unheard-of wealth, for the flowers and blackberries and bilberries were to
be found in plenty, so large and sweet, that when they were crushed beneath the tread of the
passers by, the heath was coloured with their red juice.

Now came the fourth day, and the funeral festivities were to conclude, and they were to go
back from the land-dunes to the sand-dunes.

"Ours are the best," said the old fisherman, Jürgen's foster-father; "these have no strength."

And they spoke of the way in which the sand-dunes had come into the country, and it seemed
all very intelligible. How glorious it was to get out into strange regions, and to see strange
people! And he was to go farther still.

There stood Jürgen in his shabby clothes, which looked as if they had been washed in the ditch
and dried in the chimney: for the first time he, the inhabitant of the dunes, saw a great city.
Jürgen hardly knew where he was or which way he went. The sailor with whom Jürgen went took
his way through the church; and Jürgen stood in the sanctuary. Coloured pictures gleamed from
their golden ground. Here he rested his burden against the wall. They say that it is well to
suffer in youth, if age brings something to make up for it.

A hard winter followed that summer. Snowstorms swept over land and sea, and there was a difficulty
in getting about. How variously things were distributed in the world! here biting cold and
snowstorms, while in the Spanish land there was burning sunshine and oppressive heat. And yet,
when here at home there came a clear frosty day, and Jürgen saw the swans flying in numbers
from the sea towards the land, and across to Vosborg, it appeared to him that people could
breathe most freely here; and here too was a splendid summer! In imagination he saw the heath
bloom and grow purple with rich juicy berries, and saw the elder trees and the lime trees at
Vosborg in blossom. He determined to go there once more.

Spring came on, and the fishery began. Jürgen was an active assistant in this; he had grown
in the last year, and was quick at work. He was full of life, he understood how to swim, to
tread water, to turn over and tumble in the flood. They often warned him to beware of the troops
of dogfish, which could seize the best swimmer, and draw him down, and devour him; but such
was not Jürgen's fate.

At the neighbour's on the dune was a boy named Martin, with whom Jürgen was very friendly,
and the two took service in the same ship to Norway, and also went together to Holland; and
they had never had any quarrel; but a quarrel can easily come, for when a person is hot by
nature, he often uses strong gestures, and that is what Jürgen did one day on board when they
had a quarrel about nothing at all. They were sitting behind the cabin door, eating out of
a delf plate which they had placed between them. Jürgen held his pocket-knife in his hand,
and lifted it against Martin, and at the same time became ashy pale in the face, and his eyes
had an ugly look. Martin only said,

"Ah! ha! you 're one of that sort, who are fond of using the knife!"

Hardly were the words spoken, when Jürgen's hand sank down. He answered not a syllable, but
went on eating, and afterwards walked away to his work. When they were resting again, he stepped
up to Martin, and said,

"You may hit me in the face! I have deserved it. But I feel as if I had a pot in me that boiled
over."

"There let the thing rest," replied Martin; and after that they were almost doubly as good
friends as before; and when afterwards they got back to the dunes and began telling their adventures,
this was told among the rest; and Martin said that Jürgen was certainly passionate, but a good
fellow for all that.

They were both young and strong, well-grown and stalwart; but Jürgen was the cleverer of the
two. Moreover, the managers bring up the fish from the boat, cut them open, prepare them, and
have generally a great deal to do.

One day as they were walking together, and Jürgen held her hand in his very firmly and warmly,
she said to him,

"Jürgen, I have something weighing upon my heart! Let me be your manager, for you are like
a brother to me, whereas Martin, who has engaged me--he and I are lovers----but you need not
tell that to the rest."

And it seemed to Jürgen as if the loose sand were giving way under his feet. He spoke not a
word, but only nodded his head, which signified "yes." More was not required; but suddenly
he felt in his heart that he detested Martin; and the longer he considered of this--for he
had never thought of Else in this way before--the more did it become clear to him that Martin
had stolen from him the only being he loved; and now it was all at once plain to him, that
Else was the being in question.

When the sea is somewhat disturbed, and the fishermen come home in their great boat, it is
a sight to behold how they cross the reefs.

"Then it would be all over with me, and Martin too!" This thought struck Jürgen while they
were out at sea, where his foster-father had been taken alarmingly ill. The fever had seized
him. They were only a few oars' strokes from the reef, and Jürgen sprang from his seat, and
stood up in the bow. The boat came safely across the reef to land, but the evil thought remained
in his blood, and roused up every little fibre of bitterness which had remained in his memory
since he and Martin had been comrades. But he could not weave the fibres together, nor did
he endeavour to do so. He felt that Martin had despoiled him, and this was enough to make him
detest his former friend. Several of the fishermen noticed this, but not Martin, who continued
obliging and talkative--the latter a little too much.

Jürgen's adopted father had to keep his bed, which became his deathbed, for in the next week
he died; and now Jürgen was installed as heir in the little house behind the sand-hills. It
was but a little house, certainly, but still it was something, and Martin had nothing of the kind.

"You will not take sea service again, Jürgen?" observed one of the old fishermen. "You will
always stay with us, now."

But this was not Jürgen's intention, for he was just thinking of looking about him a little
in the world. The eel breeder of Zjaltring had an uncle in Alt-Skage, who was a fisherman,
but at the same time a prosperous merchant, who had ships upon the sea; he was said to be a
good old man, and it would not be amiss to enter his service. Alt-Skage lies in the extreme
north of Jutland, as far removed from the Hunsby dunes as one can travel in that country; and
this is just what pleased Jürgen, for he did not want to remain till the wedding of Martin
and Else, which was to be celebrated in a few weeks.

The old fisherman asserted that it was foolish now to quit the neighbourhood; for that Jürgen
had a home, and Else would probably be inclined to take him rather than Martin.

Jürgen answered so much at random, that it was not easy to understand what he meant; but the
old man brought Else to him, and she said, "You have a home now; that ought to be well considered."

And Jürgen thought of these things all night through. And Else kissed him on the mouth when
she heard that, for she loved Martin best.

In the early morning Jürgen purposed to start. On the evening before his departure, when it
was already growing late, he felt a wish to visit Martin once more; he started, and among the
dunes the old fisher met him, who was angry at his going. Jürgen paid no heed to this speech,
but said farewell to the old man, and went on towards the house where Martin dwelt. He heard
loud talking within. Martin was not alone, and this made Jürgen waver in his determination,
for he did not wish to encounter Else; and on second consideration, he thought it better not
to hear Martin thank him again, and therefore turned back. The way was easier to traverse than
the heavy sand road, and moreover shorter; for he intended to go in the first instance to Zjaltring,
by Bowberg, where the eel breeder lived, to whom he had promised a visit.

The sea lay pure and blue before him, and mussel shells and sea pebbles, the playthings of
his youth, crunched under his feet. While he was thus marching on, his nose suddenly began
to bleed: it was a trifling incident, but little things can have great significances. In the
sand the sea-eringa was blooming here and there. He broke off a stalk and stuck it in his hat;
he determined to be merry and of good cheer, for he was going into the wide world--"a little
way outside the door, in front of the hay," as the young eels had said. But this concerned
him nothing.

The ferry was on the opposite side of the bay. Jürgen called to the ferryman; and when the
latter came over with the boat, Jürgen stepped in; but before they had gone half-way across,
the men whom he had seen riding so hastily behind him, hailed the ferryman, and summoned him
to return in the name of the law. Jürgen did not understand the reason of this, but he thought
it would be best to turn back, and therefore himself took an oar and returned.

"Thy wicked deed will cost thee thy life," they said. "It is well that we caught thee."

He was accused of nothing less than murder. Martin had been found dead, with a knife thrust
through his neck. One of the fishermen had (late on the previous evening) met Jürgen going
towards Martin's house; and this was not the first time Jürgen had raised his knife against
Martin--so they knew that he was the murderer. The town in which the prison was built was a
long way off, and the wind was contrary for going there; but not half an hour would be required
to get across the bay, and a quarter of an hour would bring them from thence to Nörre Vosborg,
a great castle with walls and ditches.

No attention was paid to the defence made by Jürgen; the few drops of blood upon his shirt-sleeve
bore heavy witness against him. But Jürgen was conscious of innocence; and as there was no
chance of immediately righting himself, he submitted to his fate.

In the two wings of the castle a staircase leads down to a spot below the entrance, and from
thence there is access to a low vaulted cellar. In the midst of the cellar roof was a little
narrow air-hole, but no window. The blooming lindens could not waft a breath of comforting
fragrance into that abode, where all was dark and mouldy. Her last thought on the night before
her execution had filled this space; and all the magic came into Jürgen's mind which tradition
asserted to have been practised there in the old times, when Sir Schwanwedel dwelt there.

He was not left there long. They carried him off to the town of Ringkjöbing, where his imprisonment
was just as hard.

Those times were not like ours.

Cold and cheerless was his abode--and when would this state of things end? He had innocently
sunk into misfortune and sorrow--that was his fate. He had leisure now to ponder on the difference
of fortune on earth, and to wonder why this fate had been allotted to him; and he felt sure
that the question would be answered in the next life--the existence that awaits us when this
is over. This faith had grown strong in him in the poor fisherman's hut; that which had never
shone into his father's mind, in all the richness and sunshine of Spain, was vouchsafed as
a light of comfort in his poverty and distress--a sign of mercy from God that never deceives.
Jürgen, in his prison, heard these sounds, and it was a relief to him.

How he listened to the deep moaning, and how the thought arose in him--"Free! free!

In the neighbourhood of Ringkjöbing, at a beer-house, Niels, the thief, had met Martin on the
afternoon before Jürgen's departure from home and before the murder.

This was circumstantially explained; but for us it is enough to know that Jürgen was set at
liberty. But what amends did he get for having been imprisoned a whole year, and shut out from
all communion with men? But the best of all was, that the merchant Brönne of Skjagen, the same
into whose service Jürgen intended to go a year since, was just at that time on business in
the town of Ringkjöbing.

So Jürgen went forth from the prison as if to Paradise, to find freedom, affection, and trust.
He was to travel this road now; for no goblet of life is all bitterness: no good man would
pour out such measure to his fellow man, and how should He do it, who is love itself?

"Let all that be buried and forgotten," said Brönne the merchant. "Let us draw a thick line
through last year; and we will even burn the calendar. And in two days we'll start for dear,
friendly, peaceful Skjagen. All this was known to Jürgen--thus much knowledge he had; and even
if he did not know the land of the Lombards beyond the high Alps, he had an idea how it must
be there, for in his boyhood he had been in the south, in Spain. He thought of the southern
fruits piled up there; of the red pomegranate blossoms; of the humming, murmuring, and toiling
in the great beehive of a city he had seen; but, after all, home is best; and Jürgen's home
was Denmark.

At length they reached "Wendelskajn," as Skjagen is called in the old Norwegian and Icelandic
writings. Then, as now, the houses were strewn among the wind-raised sand-hills--a desert where
the wind sports with the sand, and where the voices of the seamen and the wild swans strike
harshly on the ear. In the south-west, a mile from the sea, lies Old Skjagen; and here dwelt
merchant Brönne, and here Jürgen was henceforth to dwell. The whole coast was strewn with spoilt
herrings; for there were so many of those fish, that a net was scarcely thrown into the sea
before they were caught by cartloads; there were so many, that often they were thrown back
into the sea, or left to lie on the shore.

The old man's wife and daughter, and his servants too, came rejoicingly to meet him. There
was a great pressing of hands, and talking, and questioning. And the daughter, what a lovely
face and bright eyes she had!

The interior of the house was roomy and comfortable. Jürgen found a happy home in Old Skjagen.
It did his heart good; and his heart had been sorely tried, and had drunk the bitter goblet
of love, which softens or hardens according to circumstances. Jürgen's heart was still soft--it
was young, and there was still room in it; and therefore it was well that Mistress Clara was
going in three weeks in her father's ship to Christiansand, in Norway, to visit an aunt, and
to stay there the whole winter.

Two days later she left Skjagen and went to Norway. He stayed behind, and made himself useful
in the house and in the business. He went out fishing, and at that time fish were more plentiful
and larger than now. Every Sunday when he sat in the church, and his eye rested on the statue
of the Virgin on the altar, his glance rested for a time on the spot where Mistress Clara had
knelt beside him, and he thought of her, how hearty and kind she had been to him.

And so the autumn and the winter time passed away. There was wealth here, and a real family
life; even down to the domestic animals, who were all well kept. He was full of life and spirits,
and looked so stout and jovial that Dame Brönne declared it did her good to see him.

"And it's a pleasure to see you too, old wife," said the old merchant. "Jürgen has brought
life into our winter evenings, and into you too, mother. You look younger this year, and you
seem well and bonny. But then you were once the prettiest girl in Wiborg, and that's saying
a great deal, for I have always found the Wiborg girls the prettiest of any."

Jürgen said nothing to this, but he thought of a certain maiden of Skjagen; and he sailed to
visit that maiden, for the ship steered to Christiansand, in Norway, and a favouring wind bore
it rapidly to that town.

One morning merchant Brönne went out to the lighthouse that stands far away from Old Skjagen:
the coal fire had long gone out, and the sun was already high when he mounted the tower. The
sand-banks extend under the water a whole mile from the shore. Outside these banks many ships
were seen that day; and with the help of his telescope the old man thought he descried his
own vessel, the "Karen Brönne."

Yes, surely there she was; and the ship was sailing up with Jürgen and Clara on board. The
church and the lighthouse appeared to them as a heron and a swan rising from the blue waters.
A signal of distress was hoisted; but they were still a full mile from the shore. Fishing boats
were in sight, but they were still far distant. The wind blew shoreward, and the tide was in
their favour too; but all was insufficient, for the ship sank. Jürgen threw his right arm about
Clara, and pressed her close to him.

With what a look she gazed in his face! As he threw himself in God's name into the water with
her, she uttered a cry; but still she felt safe, certain that he would not let her sink.

And now, in the hour of terror and danger, Jürgen experienced what the old song told:

    "And written it stood, how the brave king's son
    Embraced the bride his valour had won."

How rejoiced he felt that he was a good swimmer! He worked his way onward with his feet and
with one hand, while with the other he tightly held the young girl. He rested upon the waves,
he trod the water, he practised all the arts he knew, so as to reserve strength enough to reach
the shore. He heard how Clara uttered a sigh, and felt a convulsive shudder pass through her,
and he pressed her to him closer than ever. Now and then a wave rolled over her; and he was
still a few cables' lengths from the land, when help came in the shape of an approaching boat.
But under the water--he could see it clearly--stood a white form gazing at him: a wave lifted
him up, and the form approached him: he felt a shock, and it grew dark, and everything vanished
from his gaze.

On the sand-reef lay the wreck of a ship, the sea washed over it; the white figure-head leant
against an anchor, the sharp iron extended just to the surface. Jürgen had come in contact
with this, and the tide had driven him against it with double force. He sank down fainting
with his load; but the next wave lifted him and the young girl aloft again.

The fishermen grasped them, and lifted them into the boat. The blood streamed down over Jürgen's
face; he seemed dead, but he still clutched the girl so tightly that they were obliged to loosen
her by force from his grasp. And Clara lay pale and lifeless in the boat, that now made for
the shore.

All means were tried to restore Clara to life; but she was dead! For some time he had been
swimming onward with a corpse, and had exerted himself to exhaustion for one who was dead.

Jürgen was still breathing. The fishermen carried him into the nearest house upon the sand-hills.
A kind of surgeon who lived there, and was at the same time a smith and a general dealer, bound
up Jürgen's wounds in a temporary way, till a physician could be got next day from the nearest
town.

"Let us pray that God may take him to Himself; he will never be a sane man again!"

But life would not depart from him--the thread would not snap; but the thread of memory broke:
the thread of all his mental power had been cut through; and, what was most terrible, a body
remained--a living healthy body--that wandered about like a spectre.

Jürgen remained in the house of the merchant Brönne.

"He contracted his illness in his endeavour to save our child," said the old man, "and now
he is our son."

People called Jürgen imbecile; but that was not the right expression. He was like an instrument,
in which the strings are loose and will sound no more; only at times for a few minutes they
regained their power, and then they sounded anew: old melodies were heard, snatches of song;
pictures unrolled themselves, and then disappeared again in the mist, and once more he sat
staring before him, without a thought. We may believe that he did not suffer, but his dark
eyes lost their brightness, and looked only like black clouded glass.

"Poor imbecile Jürgen!" said the people.

He it was whose life was to have been so pleasant that it would be "presumption and pride"
to expect or believe in a higher existence hereafter. All his great mental faculties had been
lost; only hard days, pain, and disappointment had been his lot. He was like a rare plant torn
from its native soil, and thrown upon the sand, to wither there. And was the image, fashioned
in God's likeness, to have no better destination? Was it to be merely the sport of chance?
These words from the Psalms of David, the old pious wife of the merchant repeated in patience
and hope, and the prayer of her heart was that Jürgen might soon be summoned to enter into
the life eternal.

In the churchyard where the sand blows across the walls, Clara lay buried. It seemed as if
Jürgen knew nothing of this--it did not come within the compass of his thoughts, which comprised
only fragments of a past time. Every Sunday he went with the old people to church, and sat
silent there with vacant gaze. One day, while the Psalms were being sung, he uttered a deep
sigh, and his eyes gleamed: they were fixed upon the altar, upon the place where he had knelt
with his friend who was dead. He uttered her name, and became pale as death, and tears rolled
over his cheeks. How much of his wealth would the old man not have given to be able to press
his children to his heart! his daughter, or her child, that had perhaps never seen the light
in this world, far less a Paradise.

"Poor child!"

Yes, poor child--a child still, and yet more than thirty years old; for to that age Jürgen
had attained in Old Skjagen.

The drifting sand had covered the graves in the churchyard quite up to the walls of the church;
but yet the dead must be buried among their relations and loved ones who had gone before them.
Merchant Brönne and his wife now rested here with their children, under the white sand.

It was spring-time, the season of storms. The sand-hills whirled up in clouds, and the sea
ran high, and flocks of birds flew like clouds in the storms, shrieking across the dunes; and
shipwreck followed shipwreck on the reefs of "Skjagenzweig" from towards the Hunsby dunes.
One evening Jürgen was sitting alone in the room. Suddenly his mind seemed to become clearer,
and a feeling of unrest came upon him, which in his younger years had often driven him forth
upon the heath and the sand-hills.

"Home! home!" he exclaimed. No one heard him. He went out of the house towards the dunes. Sand
and stones blew into his face and whirled around him. He went on farther and farther, towards
the church: the sand lay high around the walls, half over the windows; but the heap had been
shovelled away from the door, and the entrance was free and easy to open; and Jürgen went into
the church.

The storm went howling over the town of Skjagen. Within the memory of man the sea had not run
so high--a terrible tempest! but Jürgen was in the temple of God, and while black night reigned
without, a light arose in his soul, a light that was never to be extinguished; he felt the
heavy stone which seemed to weigh upon his head burst asunder. He thought he heard the sound
of the organ, but it was the storm and the moaning of the sea. He sat down on one of the seats;
and behold, the candles were lighted up one by one; a richness was displayed such as he had
only seen in the church in Spain; and all the pictures of the old councillors were endued with
life, and stepped forth from the walls against which they had stood for centuries, and seated
themselves in the entrance of the church. The gates and doors flew open, and in came all the
dead people, festively clad, and sat down to the sound of beautiful music, and filled the seats
in the church. Then the psalm tune rolled forth like a sounding sea; and his old foster-parents
from the Hunsby dunes were here, and the old merchant Brönne and his wife; and at their side,
close to Jürgen, sat their friendly, lovely daughter Clara, who gave her hand to Jürgen, and
they both went to the altar, where they had once knelt together, and the priest joined their
hands and joined them together for life. Then the sound of music was heard again, wonderful,
like a child's voice full of joy and expectation, and it swelled on to an organ's sound, to
a tempest of full, noble sounds, lovely and elevating to hear, and yet strong enough to burst
the stone tombs.

And the little ship that hung down from the roof of the choir came down, and became wonderfully
large and beautiful, with silken sails and golden yards, "and every rope wrought through with
silk," as the old song said. The married pair went on board, and the whole congregation with
them, for there was room and joyfulness for all. And the walls and arches of the church bloomed
like the juniper and the fragrant lime trees, and the leaves and branches waved and distributed
coolness; then they bent and parted, and the ship sailed through the midst of them, through
the sea, and through the air; and every church taper became a star, and the wind sang a psalm
tune, and all sang with the wind:

"In love, to glory--no life shall be lost. Full of blessedness and joy. Hallelujah!"

And these words were the last that Jürgen spoke in this world.

       *       *       *       *       *

The next morning was Sunday, and the congregation and their pastor went forth to the service.
The road to church had been heavy; the sand made the way almost impassable; and now, when they
at last reached their goal, a great hill of sand was piled up before the entrance, and the
church itself was buried.

So they sang a psalm under the open sky, and went back to their homes.

Jürgen was nowhere to be found in the town of Skjagen, or in the dunes, however much they sought
for him. It was thought that the waves, which had rolled far up on the sand, had swept him away.

His body lay buried in a great sepulchre, in the church itself. In the storm the Lord's hand
had thrown a handful of earth on his grave; and the heavy mound of sand lay upon it, and lies
there to this day.

The whirling sand had covered the high vaulted passages; whitethorn and wild rose trees grow
over the church, over which the wanderer now walks; while the tower, standing forth like a
gigantic tombstone over a grave, is to be seen for miles around: no king has a more splendid
tombstone. No one disturbs the rest of the dead; no one knew of this, and we are the first
who know of this grave--the storm sang the tale to me among the sand-hills.

THE BISHOP OF BÖRGLUM AND HIS WARRIORS. It is heard by the sleepless listener in the thickly-walled
rooms at Börglum.

THE SNOW MAN.

"It's so wonderfully cold that my whole body crackles!" said the Snow Man. "This is a kind
of wind that can blow life into one; and how the gleaming one up yonder is staring at me."
He meant the sun, which was just about to set.

He had been born amid the joyous shouts of the boys, and welcomed by the sound of sledge bells
and the slashing of whips.

The sun went down, and the full moon rose, round, large, clear, and beautiful in the blue air.

"There it comes again from the other side," said the Snow Man. He had got the hoarseness from
the time when he was an indoor dog, and lay by the fire. "The sun will teach you to run! He
meant the moon. "Yes, it was running itself, when I saw it a little while ago, and now it comes
creeping from the other side."

The weather really changed. Towards morning, a thick damp fog lay over the whole region; later
there came a wind, an icy wind. The cold seemed quite to seize upon one; but when the sun rose,
what splendour! Trees and bushes were covered with hoar frost, and looked like a complete forest
of coral, and every twig seemed covered with gleaming white buds. The many delicate ramifications,
concealed in summer by the wreath of leaves, now made their appearance: it seemed like a lace-work,
gleaming white. A snowy radiance sprang from every twig. The birch waved in the wind--it had
life, like the rest of the trees in summer. It was wonderfully beautiful. And when the sun
shone, how it all gleamed and sparkled, as if diamond dust had been strewn everywhere, and
big diamonds had been dropped on the snowy carpet of the earth! or one could imagine that countless
little lights were gleaming, whiter than even the snow itself.

"That is wonderfully beautiful," said a young girl, who came with a young man into the garden.
They both stood still near the Snow Man, and contemplated the glittering trees.

"Who were those two?" the Snow Man inquired of the Yard Dog. "You've been longer in the yard
than I. Do you know them?"

"Of course I know them," replied the Yard Dog. "She has stroked me, and he has thrown me a
meat bone. I don't bite those two."

"But what are they?" asked the Snow Man.

"Lovers!" replied the Yard Dog. I know every one here in the house, and I know a time when
I did not lie out here in the cold, fastened to a chain. Away! away!" "They told me I was a
pretty little fellow: then I used to lie in a chair covered with velvet, up in master's house,
and sit in the lap of the mistress of all. So I came to live in the basement storey. It's as
black as a crow, and has a long neck and a brazen drum. The Snow Man felt quite strangely:
an odd emotion came over him, he knew not what it meant, and could not account for it; but
all people who are not snow men know the feeling.

"And why did you leave her?" asked the Snow Man, for it seemed to him that the stove must be
of the female sex. 'Bone for bone,' I thought. They took that very much amiss, and from that
time I have been fastened to a chain and have lost my voice. Don't you hear how hoarse I am?
Away! away! I can't talk any more like other dogs. Away! away! that was the end of the affair."

But the Snow Man was no longer listening to him. "Shall I ever get in there? When the room-door
opened, the flame started out of his mouth; this was a habit the stove had. The flame fell
distinctly on the white face of the Snow Man, and gleamed red upon his bosom.

"I can endure it no longer," said he; "how beautiful it looks when it stretches out its tongue!"

The night was long; but it did not appear long to the Snow Man, who stood there lost in his
own charming reflections, crackling with the cold.

In the morning the window-panes of the basement lodging were covered with ice.

One morning he broke down. Now he has got over that too. Away! away!"

And soon they had got over the winter.

"Away! away!" barked the hoarse Yard Dog; but the girls in the house sang:

    "Green thyme! from your house come out;
    Willow, your woolly fingers stretch out;
    Lark and cuckoo cheerfully sing,
    For in February is coming the spring.
    And with the cuckoo I'll sing too,
    Come thou, dear sun, come out, cuckoo!"

And nobody thought any more of the Snow Man.

TWO MAIDENS.

Have you ever seen a maiden?

THE FARMYARD COCK AND THE WEATHERCOCK.

There were two Cocks--one on the dunghill, the other on the roof. Both were conceited; but
which of the two effected most? Tell us your opinion; but we shall keep our own nevertheless.

The poultry-yard was divided by a partition of boards from another yard, in which lay a manure-heap,
whereon lay and grew a great Cucumber, which was fully conscious of being a forcing-bed plant.

"That's a privilege of birth," the Cucumber said to herself. "Not all can be born cucumbers;
there must be other kinds too. The fowls, the ducks, and all the cattle in the neighbouring
yard are creatures too. I now look up to the Yard Cock on the partition. He certainly is of
much greater consequence than the Weathercock, who is so highly placed, and who can't even
creak, much less crow; and he has neither hens nor chickens, and thinks only of himself, and
perspires verdigris. But the Yard Cock--he's something like a cock! His gait is like a dance,
his crowing is music; and wherever he comes, it is known directly. What a trumpeter he is!
If he would only come in here! Even if he were to eat me up, stalk and all, it would be a blissful
death," said the Cucumber.

In the night the weather became very bad. Hens, chickens, and even the Cock himself sought
shelter. The wind blew down the partition between the two yards with a crash; the tiles came
tumbling down, but the Weathercock sat firm. He did not even turn round; he could not turn
round, and yet he was young and newly cast, but steady and sedate. He had been "born old,"
and did not at all resemble the birds that fly beneath the vault of heaven, such as the sparrows
and the swallows. He despised those, considering them piping birds of trifling stature--ordinary
song birds. The pigeons, he allowed, were big and shining, and gleamed like mother-o'-pearl,
and looked like a kind of weathercocks; but then they were fat and stupid, and their whole
endeavour was to fill themselves with food. "Moreover, they are tedious things to converse
with," said the Weathercock.

The birds of passage had also paid a visit to the Weathercock, and told him tales of foreign
lands, of airy caravans, and exciting robber stories; of encounters with birds of prey; and
that was interesting for the first time, but the Weathercock knew that afterwards they always
repeated themselves, and that was tedious. "They are tedious, and all is tedious," he said.
"No one is fit to associate with, and one and all of them are wearisome and stupid."

"The world is worth nothing," he cried. "The whole thing is a stupidity."

"What do you think of that crowing?" the Yard Cock inquired of his hens and chickens. "It was
a little rough--the elegance was wanting."

And hens and chickens stepped upon the muck-heap, and the Cock strutted to and fro on it like
a knight.

And hens and chickens clucked and chirped, and the Cock told them a great piece of news:

"A cock can lay an egg; and do you know what there is in that egg? In that egg lies a basilisk.
No one can stand the sight of a basilisk. Men know that, and now you know it too--you know
what is in me, and what a cock of the world I am." They clucked and chirped, so that the Weathercock
heard it; and he heard it, but he never stirred.

"It's all stupid stuff!" said a voice within the Weathercock. "The Yard Cock does not lay eggs,
and I am too lazy to lay any. If I liked, I could lay a wind-egg; but the world is not worth
a wind-egg. And now I don't like even to sit here any longer."

And with this the Weathercock broke off; but he did not kill the Yard Cock, though he intended
to do so, as the hens declared. And what does the moral say?--"Better to crow than to be 'used
up' and break off."

THE PEN AND INKSTAND.

In the room of a poet, where his inkstand stood upon the table, it was said, "It is wonderful
what can come out of an inkstand. What will the next thing be? It is wonderful!"

"Yes, certainly," said the Inkstand. "It's extraordinary--that's what I always say," he exclaimed
to the pen and to the other articles on the table that were near enough to hear. "It is wonderful
what a number of things can come out of me. It's quite incredible. And I really don't myself
know what will be the next thing, when that man begins to dip into me. One drop out of me is
enough for half a page of paper; and what cannot be contained in half a page? From me all the
works of the poet go forth--all these living men, whom people can imagine they have met--all
the deep feeling, the humour, the vivid pictures of nature. I myself don't understand how it
is, for I am not acquainted with nature, but it certainly is in me. From me all these things
have gone forth, and from me proceed the troops of charming maidens, and of brave knights on
prancing steeds, and all the lame and the blind, and I don't know what more--I assure you I
don't think of anything."

"There you are right," said the Pen; "you don't think at all; for if you did, you would comprehend
that you only furnish the fluid. You give the fluid, that I may exhibit upon the paper what
dwells in me, and what I would bring to the day. It is the pen that writes. No man doubts that;
and, indeed, most people have about as much insight into poetry as an old inkstand."

"You have but little experience," replied the Inkstand. "You've hardly been in service a week,
and are already half worn out. Do you fancy you are the poet? You are only a servant; and before
you came I had many of your sort, some of the goose family, and others of English manufacture.
I know the quill as well as the steel pen. Many have been in my service, and I shall have many
more when he comes--the man who goes through the motions for me, and writes down what he derives
from me. I should like to know what will be the next thing he'll take out of me."

"Inkpot!" exclaimed the Pen.

Late in the evening the poet came home. He had been to a concert, where he had heard a famous
violinist, with whose admirable performances he was quite enchanted. The player had drawn a
wonderful wealth of tone from the instrument: sometimes it had sounded like tinkling water-drops,
like rolling pearls, sometimes like birds twittering in chorus, and then again it went swelling
on like the wind through the fir trees. The poet thought he heard his own heart weeping, but
weeping melodiously, like the sound of woman's voice. It seemed as though not only the strings
sounded, but every part of the instrument. It was a wonderful performance; and difficult as
the piece was, the bow seemed to glide easily to and fro over the strings, and it looked as
though every one might do it. The violin seemed to sound of itself, and the bow to move of
itself--those two appeared to do everything; and the audience forgot the master who guided
them and breathed soul and spirit into them. And yet we men often commit this folly--the poet,
the artist, the labourer in the domain of science, the general--we all do it. We are only the
instruments which the Almighty uses: to Him alone be the honour! That you should not even have
understood that you were being quizzed! I gave you a cut from within me--surely I must know
my own satire!"

"Ink-pipkin!" cried the Pen.

"Writing-stick!" cried the Inkstand.

And each of them felt a conviction that he had answered well; and it is a pleasing conviction
to feel that one has given a good answer--a conviction on which one can sleep; and accordingly
they slept upon it. But the poet did not sleep. Thoughts welled up from within him, like the
tones from the violin, falling like pearls, rushing like the storm-wind through the forests.
He understood his own heart in these thoughts, and caught a ray from the Eternal Master.

To Him be all the honour!

THE CHILD IN THE GRAVE.

There was mourning in the house, sorrow in every heart. The youngest child, a boy four years
old, the joy and hope of his parents, had died. There still remained to them two daughters,
the elder of whom was about to be confirmed--good, charming girls both; but the child that
one has lost always seems the dearest; and here it was the youngest, and a son. It was a heavy
trial. The sisters mourned as young hearts can, and were especially moved at the sight of their
parents' sorrow. The father was bowed down, and the mother completely struck down by the great
grief. Day and night she had been busy about the sick child, and had tended, lifted, and carried
it; she had felt how it was a part of herself. She could not realize that the child was dead,
and that it must be laid in a coffin and sleep in the ground. She thought God could not take
this child from her; and when it was so, nevertheless, and there could be no more doubt on
the subject, she said in her feverish pain:

"God did not know it. He has heartless servants here on earth, who do according to their own
liking, and hear not the prayers of a mother."

In her grief she fell away from God, and then there came dark thoughts, thoughts of death,
of everlasting death, that man was but dust in the dust, and that with this life all was ended.
But these thoughts gave her no stay, nothing on which she could take hold; and she sank into
the fathomless abyss of despair. Her thoughts were with the dead child; her whole thought and
being were fixed upon it, to call back every remembrance of the little one, every innocent
childish word it had uttered.

The day of the funeral came. It was necessary to do so."

"When God is hard towards me, how should men be better?" she said, with sobs and groans. One
night her husband was listening, as he often did, to her breathing, and fully believed that
she had now found rest and relief. He folded his arms and prayed, and soon sank into a deep
healthy sleep; and thus he did not notice that his wife rose, threw on her clothes, and silently
glided from the house, to go where her thoughts always lingered--to the grave which held her
child. She stepped through the garden of the house, and over the fields, where a path led to
the churchyard. No one saw her on her walk--she had seen nobody, for her eyes were fixed upon
the one goal of her journey.

It was a lovely starlight night; the air was still mild; it was in the beginning of September.
She entered the churchyard, and stood by the little grave, which looked like a great nosegay
of fragrant flowers. She sat down, and bowed her head low over the grave, as if she could have
seen her child through the intervening earth, her little boy, whose smile rose so vividly before
her--the gentle expression of whose eyes, even on the sick bed, she could never forget. How
eloquent had that glance been, when she had bent over him, and seized his delicate hand, which
he had no longer strength to raise! As she had sat by his crib, so she now sat by his grave,
but here her tears had free course, and fell thick upon the grave. She looked up; and near
her stood a man wrapped in a black cloak, with a hood drawn closely down over his face. But
she glanced keenly up, and saw his face under his hood. It was stern, but yet awakened confidence,
and his eyes beamed with the radiance of youth.

A corner of the cloak was removed, and she stood in a great hall which spread wide and pleasantly
around. It was twilight. But in a moment her child appeared, and was pressed to her heart,
smiling at her in greater beauty than he had ever possessed. She uttered a cry, but it was
inaudible. A glorious swelling strain of music sounded in the distance, and then near to her,
and then again in the distance: never had such tones fallen on her ear; they came from beyond
the great dark curtain which separated the hall from the great land of eternity beyond.

"My sweet darling mother," she heard her child say. May I not fly? And you will come to me
soon--will you not, dear mother?"

"Oh, stay! stay!" entreated the mother. "Only one moment more--only once more I should wish
to look at thee, and kiss thee, and press thee in my arms."

And she kissed and fondled the child. Then her name was called from above--called in a plaintive
voice. What might this mean? She seemed to recognize a few more of these. They floated through
the Hall of Death towards the dark curtain, and there they vanished. Would her husband and
her daughter thus flit past?

And when she had spoken those words, it was as if her heart were lightened. And she was gentle
and strong, as a wife can be; and from her came the consoling words,

    "God's will is always the best."

Then her husband asked her,

"From whence hast thou all at once derived this strength--this feeling of consolation?"

And she kissed him, and kissed her children, and said, "They came from God, through the child
in the grave."

SOUP ON A SAUSAGE-PEG.

I.

"That was a remarkably fine dinner yesterday," observed an old Mouse of the female sex to another
who had not been at the festive gathering. "I sat number twenty-one from the old mouse king,
so that I was not badly placed. Should you like to hear the order of the banquet? The courses
were very well arranged--mouldy bread, bacon-rind, tallow candle, and sausage--and then the
same dishes over again from the beginning: it was just as good as having two banquets in succession.
There was as much joviality and agreeable jesting as in the family circle. Nothing was left
but the pegs at the ends of the sausages. And the discourse turned upon these; and at last
the expression, 'Soup on sausage-rinds,' or, as they have the proverb in the neighbouring country,
'Soup on a sausage-peg,' was mentioned. Every one had heard the proverb, but no one had ever
tasted the sausage-peg soup, much less prepared it. A capital toast was drunk to the inventor
of the soup, and it was said he deserved to be a relieving officer. Was not that witty? And
the old mouse king stood up, and promised that the young female mouse who could best prepare
that soup should be his queen; and a year was allowed for the trial."

"That was not at all bad," said the other Mouse; "but how does one prepare this soup?"

"Ah, how is it prepared? That is just what all the young female mice, and the old ones too,
are asking. They would all very much like to be queen; but they don't want to take the trouble
to go out into the world to learn how to prepare the soup, and that they would certainly have
to do. But every one has not the gift of leaving the family circle and the chimney corner.
In foreign parts one can't get cheese-rinds and bacon every day. No, one must bear hunger,
and perhaps be eaten up alive by a cat."

Such were probably the considerations by which the majority were deterred from going out into
the wide world and gaining information. Only four mice announced themselves ready to depart.
They were young and brisk, but poor. Each of them wished to proceed to one of the four quarters
of the globe, and then it would become manifest which of them was favoured by fortune. Every
one took a sausage-peg, so as to keep in mind the object of the journey. The stiff sausage-peg
was to be to them as a pilgrim's staff.

It was at the beginning of May that they set out, and they did not return till the May of the
following year; and then only three of them appeared. The fourth did not report herself, nor
was there any intelligence of her, though the day of trial was close at hand.

"Yes, there's always some drawback in even the pleasantest affair," said the Mouse King. No
one was to proclaim his opinion till the mouse king had settled what was to be said. And now
let us hear.

II.

What the first little Mouse had seen and learnt in her travels.

"When I went out into the wide world," said the little Mouse, "I thought, as many think at
my age, that I had already learnt everything; but that was not the case. Years must pass before
one gets so far. I went to sea at once. I went in a ship that steered towards the north. They
had told me that the ship's cook must know how to manage things at sea; but it is easy enough
to manage things when one has plenty of sides of bacon, and whole tubs of salt pork, and mouldy
flour. One has delicate living on board; but one does not learn to prepare soup on a sausage-peg.
We sailed along for many days and nights; the ship rocked fearfully, and we did not get off
without a wetting. When we at last reached the port to which we were bound, I left the ship;
and it was high up in the far north.

"It is a wonderful thing, to go out of one's own corner at home, and sail in a ship, where
one has a sort of corner too, and then suddenly to find oneself hundreds of miles away in a
strange land. I saw great pathless forests of pine and birch, which smelt so strong that I
sneezed, and thought of sausage. There were great lakes there too. When I came close to them
the waters were quite clear, but from a distance they looked black as ink. Great swans floated
upon them: I thought at first they were spots of foam, they lay so still; but then I saw them
walk and fly, and I recognized them. They belong to the goose family--one can see that by their
walk; for no one can deny his parentage. I kept with my own kind. I associated with the forest
and field mice, who, by the way, know very little, especially as regards cookery, though this
was the very subject that had brought me abroad. The thought that soup might be boiled on a
sausage-peg was such a startling statement to them, that it flew at once from mouth to mouth
through the whole forest. They declared the problem could never be solved; and little did I
think that there, in the very first night, I should be initiated into the method of its preparation.
It was in the height of summer, and that, the mice said, was the reason why the wood smelt
so strongly, and why the herbs were so fragrant, and the lakes so transparent and yet so dark,
with their white swimming swans.

"On the margin of the wood, among three or four houses, a pole as tall as the mainmast of a
ship had been erected, and from its summit hung wreaths and fluttering ribbons: this was called
a maypole. Men and maids danced round the tree, and sang as loudly as they could, to the violin
of the fiddler. There were merry doings at sundown and in the moonlight, but I took no part
in them--what has a little mouse to do with a May dance? I sat in the soft moss and held my
sausage-peg fast. The moon threw its beams especially upon one spot, where a tree stood, covered
with moss so exceedingly fine, I may almost venture to say it was as fine as the skin of the
mouse king; but it was of a green colour, and that is a great relief to the eye.

"All at once, the most charming little people came marching forth. They were only tall enough
to reach to my knee. They looked like men, but were better proportioned: they called themselves
elves, and had delicate clothes on, of flower leaves trimmed with the wings of flies and gnats,
which had a very good appearance. Directly they appeared, they seemed to be seeking for something--I
know not what; but at last some of them came towards me, and the chief pointed to my sausage-peg,
and said, 'That is just such a one as we want--it is pointed--it is capital!' and the longer
he looked at my pilgrim's staff the more delighted he became.

"'I will lend it,' I said, 'but not to keep.'

"'Not to keep!' they all repeated; and they seized the sausage-peg, which I gave up to them,
and danced away to the spot where the fine moss grew; and here they set up the peg in the midst
of the green. They wanted to have a maypole of their own, and the one they now had seemed cut
out for them; and they decorated it so that it was beautiful to behold.

"First, little spiders spun it round with gold thread, and hung it all over with fluttering
veils and flags, so finely woven, bleached so snowy white in the moonshine, that they dazzled
my eyes. They took colours from the butterfly's wing, and strewed these over the white linen,
and flowers and diamonds gleamed upon it, so that I did not know my sausage-peg again: there
is not in all the world such a maypole as they had made of it. And now came the real great
party of elves. They were quite without clothes, and looked as genteel as possible; and they
invited me to be present at the feast; but I was to keep at a certain distance, for I was too
large for them.

"And now began such music! It sounded like thousands of glass bells, so full, so rich, that
I thought the swans were singing. I fancied also that I heard the voice of the cuckoo and the
blackbird, and at last the whole forest seemed to join in. I heard children's voices, the sound
of bells, and the song of birds; the most glorious melodies--and all came from the elves' maypole,
namely, my sausage-peg. I should never have believed that so much could come out of it; but
that depends very much upon the hands into which it falls. I was quite touched. I wept, as
a little mouse may weep, with pure pleasure.

"The night was far too short; but it is not longer up yonder at that season. In the morning
dawn the breeze began to blow, the mirror of the forest lake was covered with ripples, and
all the delicate veils and flags fluttered away in the air. The waving garlands of spider's
web, the hanging bridges and balustrades, and whatever else they are called, flew away as if
they were nothing at all. Six elves brought me back my sausage-peg, and asked me at the same
time if I had any wish that they could gratify; so I asked them if they could tell me how soup
was made on a sausage-peg.

"'How we do it?' asked the chief of the elves, with a smile. 'Why, you have just seen it. I
fancy you hardly knew your sausage-peg again?'

"'You only mean that as a joke," I replied. And then I told them in so many words, why I had
undertaken a journey, and what great hopes were founded on the operation at home. 'What advantage,'
I asked, 'can accrue to our mouse king, and to our whole powerful state, from the fact of my
having witnessed all this festivity? I cannot shake it out of the sausage-peg, and say, "Look,
here is the peg, now the soup will come." That would be a dish that could only be put on the
table when the guests had dined.'

"Then the elf dipped his little finger into the cup of a blue violet, and said to me:

"'See here! I will anoint your pilgrim's staff; and when you go back to your country, and come
to the castle of the mouse king, you have but to touch him with the staff, and violets will
spring forth and cover its whole surface, even in the coldest winter-time. And so I think I've
given you something to carry home, and a little more than something!'"

"But what was the 'something more,' of which you spoke?" asked the Mouse King.

"Why," the little Mouse answered, "I think it is what they call effect!" and herewith she turned
the staff round, and lo! there was not a single flower to be seen upon it; she only held the
naked skewer, and lifted this up, as a musical conductor lifts his bâton.

"'Violets,' the elf said to me, 'are for sight, and smell, and touch. Therefore it yet remains
to provide for hearing and taste!'" And now the little Mouse began to beat time; and music
was heard, not such as sounded in the forest among the elves, but such as is heard in the kitchen.
There was a bubbling sound of boiling and roasting; and all at once it seemed as if the sound
were rushing through every chimney, and pots and kettles were boiling over. The fire-shovel
hammered upon the brass kettle, and then, on a sudden, all was quiet again. They heard the
quiet subdued song of the tea-kettle, and it was wonderful to hear--they could not quite tell
if the kettle were beginning to sing or leaving off; and the little pot simmered, and the big
pot simmered, and neither cared for the other: there seemed to be no reason at all in the pots.
And the little Mouse flourished her bâton more and more wildly; the pots foamed, threw up large
bubbles, boiled over, and the wind roared and whistled through the chimney. Oh! it became so
terrible, that the little Mouse lost her stick at last.

"That was a heavy soup!" said the Mouse King. "Shall we not soon hear about the preparation?"

"That was all," said the little Mouse, with a bow.

"That is all! Then we should be glad to hear what the next has to relate," said the Mouse King.

III.

What the second little Mouse had to tell.

"I was born in the palace library," said the second Mouse. We have indeed often been compelled
to suffer hunger in the library, but we got a good deal of knowledge. The rumour penetrated
even to us, of the royal prize offered to those who could cook soup upon a sausage-peg; and
it was my old grandmother who thereupon ferreted out a manuscript, which she certainly could
not read, but which she had heard read out, and in which it was written: 'Those who are poets
can boil soup upon a sausage-peg.' She asked me if I were a poet. I felt quite innocent on
the subject, and then she told me I must go out, and manage to become one. I again asked what
was requisite in that particular, for it was as difficult for me to find that out, as to prepare
the soup; but grandmother had heard a good deal of reading, and she said that three things
were especially necessary: 'Understanding, imagination, feeling--if you can manage to obtain
these three, you are a poet, and the sausage-wide peg affair will be quite easy to you.'

"And I went forth, and marched towards the west, away into the world, to become a poet.

"Understanding is the most important thing in every affair. I knew that, for the two other
things are not held in half such respect, and consequently I went out first to seek understanding.
Yes, where does he dwell? 'Go to the ant and be wise,' said the great King of the Jews; I knew
that from my library experience; and I never stopped till I came to the first great ant-hill,
and there I placed myself on the watch, to become wise.

"The ants are a respectable people. They are understanding itself. Everything with them is
like a well-worked sum, that comes right. To work and to lay eggs, they say, is to live while
you live, and to provide for posterity; and accordingly that is what they do. They were divided
into the clean and the dirty ants. The rank of each is indicated by a number, and the ant queen
is number ONE; and her view is the only correct one, she is the receptacle of all wisdom; and
that was important for me to know. She spoke so much, and it was all so clever, that it sounded
to me like nonsense. She declared her ant-hill was the loftiest thing in the world; though
close by it grew a tree, which was certainly loftier, much loftier, that could not be denied,
and therefore it was never mentioned. One evening an ant had lost herself upon the tree: she
had crept up the stem--not up to the crown, but higher than any ant had climbed until then;
and when she turned, and came back home, she talked of something far higher than the ant-hill
that she had found in her travels; but the other ants considered that an insult to the whole
community, and consequently she was condemned to wear a muzzle, and to continual solitary confinement.
I saw," continued the little Mouse, "that the ants were always running to and fro with their
eggs on their backs. One of them once dropped her egg; she exerted herself greatly to pick
it up again, but she could not succeed. Then two others came up, and helped her with all their
might, insomuch that they nearly dropped their own eggs over it; but then they certainly at
once relaxed their exertions, for each should think of himself first--the ant queen had declared
that by so doing they exhibited at once heart and understanding.

"'These two qualities,' she said, 'place us ants on the highest step among all reasoning beings.
Understanding is seen among us all in predominant measure, and I have the greatest share of
understanding.' And so saying, she raised herself on her hind-legs, so that she was easily
to be recognized. I could not be mistaken, and I ate her up. We were to go to the ants to learn
wisdom--and I had got the queen!

"I now proceeded nearer to the before-mentioned lofty tree. She uttered a piercing cry when
she saw me so near. Like all females, she was very much afraid of mice; and she had more ground
for fear than others, for I might have gnawed through the stem of the tree on which her life
depended. I accosted the maiden in a friendly and honest way, and bade her take courage. And
she took me up in her delicate hand; and when I had told her my reason for coming out into
the wide world, she promised me that perhaps on that very evening I should have one of the
two treasures of which I was still in quest. She told me that Phantasus, the genius of imagination,
was her very good friend, that he was beautiful as the god of love, and that he rested many
an hour under the leafy boughs of the tree, which then rustled more strongly than ever over
the pair of them. He called her his dryad, she said, and the tree his tree, for the grand gnarled
oak was just to his taste, with its root burrowing so deep in the earth, and the stem and crown
rising so high out in the fresh air, and knowing the beating snow, and the sharp wind, and
the warm sunshine as they deserve to be known. 'Yes,' the Dryad continued, 'the birds sing
aloft there in the branches, and tell each other of strange countries they have visited; and
on the only dead bough the stork has built a nest which is highly ornamental, and moreover,
one gets to hear something of the land of the pyramids. All that is very pleasing to Phantasus;
but it is not enough for him: I myself must talk to him, and tell him of life in the woods,
and must revert to my childhood, when I was little, and the tree such a delicate thing that
a stinging-nettle overshadowed it--and I have to tell everything, till now that the tree is
great and strong. Sit you down under the green thyme, and pay attention; and when Phantasus
comes, I shall find an opportunity to pinch his wings, and to pull out a little feather. Take
the pen--no better is given to any poet--and it will be enough for you!'

"And when Phantasus came the feather was plucked, and I seized it," said the little Mouse.
"I put it in water, and held it there till it grew soft. It was very hard to digest, but I
nibbled it up at last. It is very easy to gnaw oneself into being a poet, though there are
many things one must do. Now I had these two things, imagination and understanding, and through
these I knew that the third was to be found in the library; for a great man has said and written
that there are romances, whose sole and single use is that they relieve people of their superfluous
tears, and that they are, in fact, a sort of sponges sucking up human emotion. I remembered
a few of these old books which had always looked especially palatable, and were much thumbed
and very greasy, having evidently absorbed a great deal of feeling into themselves.

"I betook myself back to the library, and, so to speak, devoured a whole novel--that is, the
essence of it, the interior part, for I left the crust or binding. When I had digested this,
and a second one in addition, I felt a stirring within me, and I ate a bit of a third romance,
and now I was a poet. I said so to myself, and told the others also. I had headache, and chestache,
and I can't tell what aches besides. I began thinking what kind of stories could be made to
refer to a sausage-peg; and many pegs, and sticks, and staves, and splinters came into my mind--the
ant queen must have had a particularly fine understanding. I remembered the man who took a
white stick in his mouth, by which means he could render himself and the stick invisible; I
thought of stick hobby-horses, of 'stock rhymes,' of 'breaking the staff' over an offender,
and Heaven knows of how many phrases more concerning sticks, stocks, staves, and pegs. All
my thoughts ran upon sticks, staves, and pegs; and when one is a poet (and I am a poet, for
I have worked most terribly hard to become one) a person can make poetry on these subjects.
I shall therefore be able to wait upon you every day with a poem or a history--and that's the
soup I have to offer."

"Let us hear what the third has to say," was now the Mouse King's command.

"Peep! peep!" cried a small voice at the kitchen-door, and a little mouse--it was the fourth
of the mice who had contended for the prize, the one whom they looked upon as dead--shot in
like an arrow. She toppled the sausage-peg with the crape covering over in a moment. She had
been running day and night, and had travelled on the railway, in the goods train, having watched
her opportunity, and yet she had almost come too late. She pressed forward, looking very much
rumpled, and she had lost her sausage-peg, but not her voice, for she at once took up the word,
as if they had been waiting only for her, and wanted to hear none but her, and as if everything
else in the world were of no consequence. She spoke at once, and spoke fully: she had appeared
so suddenly, that no one found time to object to her speech or to her, while she was speaking.
And let us hear what she said.

IV.

What the fourth Mouse, who spoke before the third had spoken, had to tell.

"I betook myself immediately to the largest town," she said; "the name has escaped me--I have
a bad memory for names. From the railway I was carried, with some confiscated goods, to the
council house, and when I arrived there I ran into the dwelling of the gaoler. The gaoler was
talking of his prisoners, and especially of one who had spoken unconsidered words. These words
had given rise to others, and these latter had been written down and recorded.

"'The whole thing is soup on a sausage-peg,' said the gaoler; 'but the soup may cost him his neck.'

"Now, this gave me an interest in the prisoner," continued the Mouse, "and I watched my opportunity
and slipped into his prison--for there's a mouse-hole to be found behind every locked door.
The prisoner looked pale, and had a great beard, and bright sparkling eyes. The lamp flickered
and smoked, but the walls were so accustomed to that, that they grew none the blacker for it.
The prisoner scratched pictures and verses in white upon the black ground, but I did not read
them. I think he found it tedious, and I was a welcome guest. He lured me with bread crumbs,
with whistling, and with friendly words: he was glad to see me, and gradually I got to trust
him, and we became good friends. He let me run upon his hand, his arm, and into his sleeve;
he let me creep about in his beard, and called me his little friend. I really got to love him,
for these things are reciprocal. I forgot my mission in the wide world, forgot my sausage-peg:
that I had placed in a crack in the floor--it's lying there still. I wished to stay where I
was, for if I went away, the poor prisoner would have no one at all, and that's having too
little, in this world. I stayed, but he did not stay. He spoke to me very mournfully the last
time, gave me twice as much bread and cheese as usual, and kissed his hand to me; then he went
away, and never came back. I don't know his history.

"'Soup on a sausage-peg!' said the gaoler, to whom I now went; but I should not have trusted
him. He took me in his hand, certainly, but he popped me into a cage, a treadmill. That's a
horrible engine, in which you go round and round without getting any farther; and people laugh
at you into the bargain.

"The gaoler's granddaughter was a charming little thing, with a mass of curly hair that shone
like gold, and such merry eyes, and such a smiling mouth!

"'You poor little mouse,' she said, as she peeped into my ugly cage; and she drew out the iron
rod, and forth I jumped, to the window board, and from thence to the roof spout. Free! free!
I thought only of that, and not of the goal of my journey.

"It was dark, and night was coming on. I took up my quarters in an old tower, where dwelt a
watchman and an owl. Her conduct inspired me with so much confidence, that from the crack in
which I was crouching I called out 'peep!' to her. This confidence of mine pleased her hugely,
and she assured me I should be under her protection, and that no creature should be allowed
to do me wrong; she would reserve me for herself, for the winter, when there would be short
commons.

"She was in every respect a clever woman, and explained to me how the watchman could only 'whoop'
with the horn that hung at his side, adding, 'He is terribly conceited about it, and imagines
he's an owl in the tower. Wants to do great things, but is very small--soup on a sausage-peg!'
I begged the owl to give me the recipe for this soup, and then she explained the matter to me.

V.

How it was prepared.

"I did not travel," the third Mouse said. "I remained in my country--that's the right thing
to do. There's no necessity for travelling; one can get everything as good here. I stayed at
home. I've not learnt what I know from supernatural beings, or gobbled it up, or held converse
with owls. I have what I know through my own reflections. Will you make haste and put that
kettle upon the fire? So--now water must be poured in--quite full--up to the brim!--So--now
more fuel--make up the fire, that the water may boil--it must boil over and over!--So--I now
throw the peg in. It costs nothing at all--no further materials are necessary, only stir it round!"

"Cannot any one else do that?" asked the Mouse King.

"No;" replied the mouse. "The power is contained only in the tail of the Mouse King."

"Of course--certainly you are my queen," he said. "We'll adjourn the soup question till our
golden wedding in fifty years' time, so that the poor of my subjects, who will then be fed,
may have something to which they can look forward with pleasure for a long time."

And soon the wedding was held. But many of the mice said, as they were returning home, that
it could not be really called soup on a sausage-peg, but rather soup on a mouse's tail. They
said that some of the stories had been very cleverly told; but the whole thing might have been
different. "I should have told it so--and so--and so!"

Thus said the critics, who are always wise--after the fact.

And this story went out into the wide world, everywhere; and opinions varied concerning it,
but the story remained as it was. And that's the best in great things and in small, so also
with regard to soup on a sausage-peg--not to expect any thanks for it.

THE STONE OF THE WISE MEN.

Far away in the land of India, far away towards the East, at the end of the world, stood the
Tree of the Sun, a noble tree, such as we have never seen, and shall probably never see. The
Polar birds came flying hither, and of course the stork and the swallow were not absent; but
the birds were not the only living beings: the stag, the squirrel, the antelope, and a hundred
other beautiful and light-footed animals were here at home. Through the stem one could ascend,
for within it was a winding-stair; one could step out upon the leaves as upon balconies; and
up in the calyx of the flower itself was the most beautiful, sparkling round hall, above which
no other roof rose but the blue firmament with sun and stars.

Just as much splendour, though in another way, appeared below, in the wide halls of the castle.
Here, on the walls, the whole world around was reflected. One saw everything that was done,
so that there was no necessity of reading any papers, and indeed papers were not obtainable
there. He knew everything that a man on earth can know, or can get to know; every invention
which had already been or which was yet to be made was known to him; but nothing more, for
everything in the world has its limits. He also, however high he might tower above men in wisdom,
must die one day. "What happens to man?" the wise man asked himself, "when the angel of death
touches him? What may death be? The body is dissolved--and the soul. Yes, what is the soul?
whither doth it go? To eternal life, says the comforting voice of religion; but what is the
transition? where does one live, and how? Above, in heaven, says the pious man, thither we
go. Thither?" repeated the wise man, and fixed his eyes upon the moon and the stars; "up yonder?"
But he saw, from the earthly ball, that above and below were alike changing their position,
according as one stood here or there on the rolling globe; and even if he mounted as high as
the loftiest mountains of earth rear their heads, to the air which we below call clear and
transparent--the pure heaven--a black darkness spread abroad like a cloth, and the sun had
a coppery glow, and sent forth no rays, and our earth lay wrapped in an orange-coloured mist.
Leaf for leaf, the wise man read it through: every man may read in this book, but only by fragments.
To many an eye the characters seem to tremble, so that the words cannot be put together; on
certain pages the writing often seems so pale, so blurred, that only a blank leaf appears.
The wiser a man becomes, the more he will read; and the wisest read most. But in the division
of the book whose title is "Life after Death" not even one point was to be distinctly seen.
That pained him. Should he not be able here upon earth to obtain a light by which everything
should become clear to him that stood written in the Book of Truth? But that made him none
the wiser. Christianity showed itself to him in the Bible with words of promise of an eternal
life; but he wanted to read it in his book; but here he saw nothing written on the subject.

He had five children--four sons, educated as well as the children of the wisest father could
be, and a daughter, fair, mild, and clever, but blind; yet this appeared no deprivation to
her--her father and brothers were outward eyes to her, and the vividness of her feelings saw
for her.

Never had the sons gone farther from the castle than the branches of the tree extended, nor
had the sister strayed from home. They were happy children in the land of childhood--in the
beautiful fragrant Tree of the Sun. Like all children, they were very glad when any history
was related to them; and the father told them many things that other children would not have
understood; but these were just as clever as most grown-up people are among us. He told them
how men could attain by investigation to the knowledge of the existence of God, and that through
men themselves one could attain to the certainty that such a jewel as the "Stone of the Wise"
existed. This narration would have exceeded the perception of other children, but these children
understood it, and at length other children, too, will learn to comprehend its meaning.

They questioned their father concerning the true, the beautiful, and the good; and he explained
it to them, told them many things, and told them also that God, when He made man out of the
dust of the earth, gave five kisses to His work--fiery kisses, heart kisses--which we now call
the five senses. Through these the true, the beautiful, and the good is seen, perceived, and
understood; through these it is valued, protected, and furthered. Five senses have been given
corporeally and mentally, inwardly and outwardly, to body and soul. Strangely enough, the second
brother had the same dream, and the third, and the fourth brother likewise; all of them dreamt
exactly the same thing--namely, that each went out into the world and found the "Stone of the
Wise," which gleamed like a beaming light on his forehead when, in the morning dawn, he rode
back on his swift horse over the velvety green meadows of his home into the castle of his father;
and the jewel threw such a heavenly light and radiance upon the leaves of the book, that everything
was illuminated that stood written concerning the life beyond the grave. I will practise only
the good and the true; with these I will protect the beautiful. Much shall change for the better
when I am there." Now his thoughts were bold and great, as our thoughts generally are at home,
before we have gone forth into the world and have encountered wind and rain, and thorns and
thistles. This was to do him especial service. He followed them. And now he had gone far out
into the world--far from the land of his father, that extended eastward to the end of the earth.

But how he opened his eyes in astonishment! Many things were here to be seen; and many things
appear very different when a man beholds them with his own eyes, or when he merely sees them
in a picture, as the son had done in his father's house, however faithful the picture way be.
At the outset he nearly lost his eyes in astonishment at all the rubbish and all the masquerading
stuff put forward to represent the beautiful; but he did not lose them, and soon found full
employment for them. He wished to go thoroughly and honestly to work in the understanding of
the beautiful, the true, and the good. But how were these represented in the world? He saw
that often the garland that belonged to the beautiful was given to the hideous; that the good
was often passed by without notice, while mediocrity was applauded when it should have been
hissed off. People looked to the dress, and not to the wearer; asked for a name, and not for
desert; and went more by reputation than by service. It was the same thing everywhere.

"I see I must attack these things vigorously," he said; and attacked them with vigour accordingly.
But while he was looking for the truth, came the Evil One, the father of lies. Gladly would
the fiend have plucked out the eyes of this Seer; but that would have been too direct; the
devil works in a more cunning way. He let him see and seek the true and the good; but while
the young man was contemplating them, the evil spirit blew one mote after another into each
of his eyes; and such a proceeding would be hurtful even to the best sight. That was no good
news that they carried to the young man's home.

"I fancy the Seer must have fared badly," said the second brother; "but the Hearer may have
better fortune." For this one possessed the sense of hearing in an eminent degree: he could
hear the grass grow, so quick was he to hear. There came blackguard boys of sixty years old--for
years alone don't make men--and raised a tumult at which the hearer might certainly have laughed,
but for the applause which followed, and which echoed through every house and street, and was
audible even in the country high road. Now he could hear nothing at all of the good, the true,
and the beautiful, for his hearing was to have been the bridge by which he crossed. The birds
who winged their flight towards the east brought tidings of this, till the news reached the
castle in the Tree of the Sun.

"I will try now!" said the third brother. "I have a sharp nose!"

Now that was not said in very good taste; but it was his way, and one must take him as he was.
He had a happy temper, and was a poet, a real poet: he could sing many things that he could
not say, and many things struck him far earlier than they occurred to others. This man seeks
out the fresh sea breeze, while that one climbs to the highest mountain top and looks down
upon the busy little life beneath." Thus he spake. It seemed to him as if he had already been
out in the world, as if he had already associated with men and known them. But this experience
arose from within himself: it was the poet within him, the gift of Heaven, and bestowed on
him in his cradle.

"Thus it always fares with the beautiful in this world!" said the poet; and he sang a song
concerning it, sang it in his own way; but nobody listened. Then he gave the drummer twopence
and a peacock's feather, and set the song for the drum, and had it drummed in all the streets
of the town; and the people heard it, and said, "That's a well-constructed song." Then the
poet sang several songs of the beautiful, the true, and the good. His songs were listened to
in the tavern, where the tallow candles smoked, in the fresh meadow, in the forest, and on
the high seas. It appeared as if this brother was to have better fortune than the two others.
But the evil spirit was angry at this, and accordingly he set to work with incense powder and
incense smoke, which he can prepare so artfully as to confuse an angel, and how much more therefore
a poor poet! The Evil One knows how to take that kind of people! That's the usual way!

"Now I shall have to go out into the world, to disappear like the rest," said the fourth brother.
He had just as good a wit as the third, but he was no poet, though he could be witty. Those
two had filled the castle with cheerfulness, and now the last cheerfulness was going away.
Sight and hearing has always been looked upon as the two chief senses of men, and as the two
that it is most desirable to sharpen; the other senses are looked upon as of less consequence.
But that was not the opinion of this son, as he had especially cultivated his taste in every
respect, and taste is very powerful. It holds sway over what goes into the mouth, and also
over what penetrates into the mind; and consequently this brother tasted everything that was
stored up in bottles and pots, saying that this was the rough work of his office. Every man
was to him a vessel in which something was seething, every country an enormous kitchen, a kitchen
of the mind.

"That was no delicacy," he said, and he wanted to go out and try what was delicate. They were
curious to know what would be the result of the flight, and more of them came sweeping up:
they thought he was some new bird; and he soon had a goodly following. "Those are altars erected
to thy honour!" said the Wind, who wished to say something agreeable to him. He sat boldly
up there, and looked down upon the people in the street. There was one stepping along, proud
of his purse, another of the key he carried at his girdle, though he had nothing to unlock;
one proud of his moth-eaten coat, another of his wasted body. "Vanity! I must hasten downward,
dip my finger in the pot, and taste!" he said. "But for awhile I will still sit here, for the
wind blows so pleasantly against my back. I'll sit here so long as the wind blows. I'll enjoy
a slight rest. 'It is good to sleep long in the morning, when one has much to do,' says the
lazy man. I'll stop here so long as this wind blows, for it pleases me."

The blind daughter was his consolation and joy: she attached herself with sincere affection
to him; for the sake of his peace and joy she wished the costly jewel might be found and brought
home. With kindly longing she thought of her brothers. Where were they? Where did they live?
She wished sincerely that she might dream of them, but it was strange, not even in dreams could
she approach them. But at length, one night, she dreamt that the voices of her brothers sounded
across to her, calling to her from the wide world, and she could not refrain, but went far
far out, and yet it seemed in her dream that she was still in her father's house. During the
long nights she had spun incessantly, and round the distaff was turned a thread, finer than
the finest web of the spider; human eyes were unable to distinguish the separate threads. She
had wetted them with her tears, and the twist was strong as a cable. She rose, and her resolution
was taken: the dream must be made a reality. How would she fare out yonder, she, the poor blind
child? But she had the invisible thread to which she could hold fast. She possessed a gift
which all the others lacked. This was thoroughness; and in virtue of this it seemed as if she
could see to the tips of her fingers, and hear down into her very heart.

And quietly she went forth into the noisy, whirling, wonderful world, and wherever she went
the sky grew bright--she felt the warm ray--the rainbow spread itself out from the dark world
through the blue air. Into the innermost depths of her heart penetrated the echoes of human
thoughts and feelings. One chorus sounded darkly--

    "The life of earth is a shadow vain
    A night created for sorrow!"

but then came another strain--

    "The life of earth is the scent of the rose,
    With its sunshine and its pleasure."

And if one strophe sounded painfully--

    "Each mortal thinks of himself alone,
    This truth has been manifested"--

on the other side the answer pealed forth--

    "A mighty stream of warmest love,
    All through the world shall guide us."

And whenever she entered the circle of human kind, and appeared among young or old, the knowledge
of the true, the good, and the beautiful beamed into their hearts. Whether she entered the
study of the artist, or the festive, decorated hall, or the crowded factory, with its whirring
wheels, it seemed as though a sunbeam were stealing in--as if the sweet string sounded, the
flower exhaled its perfume, and a living dew-drop fell upon the exhausted blood.

But the evil spirit could not see this and be content. Then he pounded up paid-for heroic poems
and lying epitaphs, as many as he could get, boiled them in tears that envy had shed, put upon
them rouge he had scraped from faded cheeks, and of these he composed a maiden, with the aspect
and gait of the blessed blind girl, the angel of thoroughness; and then the Evil One's plot
was in full progress. The world knew not which of the two was the true one; and, indeed, how
should the world know?

    "To trust in thyself and in God is best;
    His good will be done for ever,"

sung the blind girl, in full faith. She intrusted the four green leaves from the Tree of the
Sun to the winds, as a letter and a greeting to her brothers, and had full confidence that
they would reach their destination, and that the jewel would be found which outshines all the
glories of the world. From the forehead of humanity it would gleam even to the castle of her
father.

"Even to my father's house," she repeated. "Yes, the place of the jewel is on earth, and I
shall bring more than the promise of it with me. I feel its glow, it swells more and more in
my closed hand. Every grain of truth, were it ever so fine, which the sharp wind carried up
and whirled towards me, I took up and treasured; I let it be penetrated by the fragrance of
the beautiful, of which there is so much in the world, even for the blind. I took the sound
of the beating heart engaged in what is good, and added it to the first. All that I bring is
but dust, but still it is the dust of the jewel we seek, and in plenty. I have my whole hand
full of it." And she stretched forth her hand towards her father. She was soon at home--she
had travelled thither in the flight of thoughts, never having quitted her hold of the invisible
thread from the paternal home.

The evil powers rushed with hurricane fury over the Tree of the Sun, pressed with a wind-blast
against the open doors, and into the sanctuary where lay the Book of Truth.

"It will be blown away by the wind!" said the father, and he seized the hand she had opened.

"No," she replied, with quiet confidence, "it cannot be blown away; I feel the beam warming
my very soul."

And the father became aware of a glancing flame, there where the shining dust poured out of
her hand over the Book of Truth, that was to tell of the certainty of an everlasting life,
and on it stood one shining word--one only word--"BELIEVE."

And with the father and daughter were again the four brothers. When the green leaf fell upon
the bosom of each, a longing for home had seized them, and led them back. They had arrived.
Thus, from the leaf of the book with the beaming word "Believe," arose every grain of truth,
decked with the charms of the beautiful and the good, burning brighter than the mighty pillar
of flame that led Moses and the children of Israel through the desert; and from the word "Believe"
the bridge of Hope arose, spanning the distance, even to the immeasurable love in the realms
of the Infinite.

THE BUTTERFLY.

The Butterfly wished for a bride; and, as may be imagined, he wanted to select a very pretty
one from among the flowers; therefore he threw a critical glance at all the flower-beds, and
found that every flower sat quietly and demurely on her stalk, just as a maiden ought to sit,
before she is engaged; but there were a great many of them, and the choice threatened to become
wearisome. The Butterfly did not care to take much trouble, and consequently he flew off on
a visit to the daisies. The French call this floweret "Marguerite," and they know that Marguerite
can prophecy, when lovers pluck off its leaves, and ask of every leaf they pluck some question
concerning their lovers. "Heartily? Painfully? Loves me much? A little? Not at all?" and so
on. Every one asks in his own language. Which will be my bride? When I know that, I will directly
fly to her, and propose for her."

But Marguerite did not answer him.

It was in the beginning of spring; the crocus and the snowdrop were blooming around.

"They are very pretty," thought the Butterfly. "Charming little lasses, but a little too much
of the schoolgirl about them." Like all young lads, he looked out for the elder girls.

Then he flew of to the anemones. The pease blossom pleased him best of all: she was white and
red, and graceful and delicate, and belonged to the domestic maidens who look well, and at
the same time are useful in the kitchen. He was just about to make his offer, when close by
the maiden he saw a pod at whose end hung a withered flower.

"Who is that?" he asked.

"That is my sister," replied the Pease Blossom.

"Oh, indeed; and you will get to look like her!" he said. And away he flew, for he felt quite
shocked.

It was late in autumn, with rain and cloudy weather. The wind blew cold over the backs of the
old willow trees, so that they creaked again. It was no weather to be flying about in summer
clothes, nor, indeed, was the Butterfly in the open air. He had got under shelter by chance,
where there was fire in the stove and the heat of summer. He could live well enough, but he said,

"It's not enough merely to live. One must have freedom, sunshine, and a little flower." It
must be something like being married, for one is stuck fast."

And he consoled himself in some measure with the thought.

"That's very poor comfort," said the potted Plants in the room.

"But," thought the Butterfly, "one cannot well trust these potted Plants. They've had too much
to do with mankind."

IN THE UTTERMOST PARTS OF THE SEA. For more than a year they had already been pushing their
way among ice, and snow, and mist, and their crews had endured many hardships; and now the
winter was come, and the sun had entirely disappeared from those regions. For many many weeks
there would now be a long night. All around, as far as the eye could reach, was a single field
of ice; the ships had been made fast to it, and the snow had piled itself up in great masses,
and of these huts had been built in the form of beehives, some of them spacious as the old
"Hun's Graves"--others only containing room enough to hold two or four men. But it was not
dark, for the northern lights flamed red and blue, like a great continual firework; and the
snow glistened and gleamed, so that the night here was one long, flaming, twilight hour. When
the gleam was brightest, the natives came in crowds, wonderful to behold in their rough, hairy,
fur dresses; and they rode in sledges formed of blocks of ice, and brought with them furs and
peltry in great bundles, so that the snow houses were furnished with warm carpets; and, in
turn, the furs also served for coverlets when the sailors went to bed under their roofs of
snow, while outside it froze in far different fashion than here with us in the winter. In our
regions it was still the late autumn-time; and they thought of that up yonder, and often pictured
to themselves the yellow leaves on the trees of home. The clock showed that it was evening,
and time to go to sleep; and in the huts two men already had stretched themselves out, seeking
rest. The younger of these had his best, dearest treasure, that he had brought from home--the
Bible, which his grandmother had given him on his departure. Every night the sacred volume
rested beneath his head, and he knew from his childish years what was written in it. The soul
lived and was working while the body was enjoying its rest: he felt this life, and it seemed
to him as if dear old well-known melodies were sounding; as if the mild breezes of summer were
playing around him; and over his bed he beheld a brightness, as if something were shining in
through the crust of snow. He lifted up his head, and behold, the bright gleam was no ripple
down from the snowy roof, but came from the mighty pinions of an angel, into whose beaming
face he was gazing. And they smiled and they wept; and he, far away among the ice and snow,
under the pinions of the angel, he, too, smiled and wept with them in spirit, for he saw them
and heard them. And the sound of a beauteous hymn welled up all around; and the angel spread
his wings like a veil over the sleeping youth. God was with him; and he carried home about
with him in his heart, even in the uttermost parts of the sea.

       *       *       *       *       *

DALZIELS' FINE ART GIFT BOOKS.

One Guinea.

In a Superb Binding, richly Illuminated in Red, Blue, and Gold, uniform with "Birket Foster's
Pictures of English Landscape."

A ROUND OF DAYS. DESCRIBED IN FORTY ORIGINAL POEMS BY SOME OF OUR MOST CELEBRATED POETS. AND
IN SEVENTY PICTURES BY EMINENT ARTISTS.

ENGRAVED BY THE BROTHERS DALZIEL.

*** Under the title of "A ROUND OF DAYS," is given a collection of subjects from every-day
life of the most varied character, ranging from a picture of a Poor Mendicant to a picture
of a Ball-Room in 1865.

In Demy 4to., Chaste Design in Gold, or Morocco Elegant and Antique, £1 16s.

HOME THOUGHTS AND HOME SCENES.

IN

THIRTY-FIVE ORIGINAL POEMS

BY

HON. MRS. NORTON DORA GREENWELL JEAN INGELOW JENNETT HUMPHREYS A. B. EDWARDS MRS. TOM TAYLOR
AND THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

AND

THIRTY-FIVE PICTURES BY A. B. HOUGHTON,

ENGRAVED BY THE BROTHERS DALZIEL.

     "We predict popularity, and a deserved popularity, for this
     production."--Saturday Review.

Superb Binding, Designed by Owen Jones.

BIRKET FOSTER'S

PICTURES OF ENGLISH LANDSCAPE.

(ENGRAVED BY THE BROTHERS DALZIEL),

WITH PICTURES IN WORDS BY TOM TAYLOR.

     "Here is a Birket Foster 'Gallery' of thirty pictures for a
     guinea. Pictures so carefully finished, that they would be
     graceful ornaments were they cut out of the books and
     framed."--Examiner.

       *       *       *       *       *

DALZIELS' FINE ART GIFT BOOKS.

One Guinea.

Elaborate Binding, full Gilt.

THE PARABLES OF OUR LORD:

WITH PICTURES BY J. E. MILLAIS, R.A.,

ENGRAVED BY THE BROTHERS DALZIEL.

Red Lettered, and Printed on fine Toned Paper.

     "In these designs we have much of Mr. Millais' finest work,
     while Messrs. Dalziel have raised the character of wood
     engraving by their exact and most admirable
     translations."--Reader.

Half a Guinea.

Handsome Binding, full Gilt.

ODES AND SONNETS; SELECTED FROM OUR BEST ENGLISH POETS. ILLUSTRATED WITH TINTED PICTURES BY
BIRKET FOSTER, AND ORNAMENTAL DESIGNS BY J. SLIEGH,

ENGRAVED AND PRINTED BY THE BROTHERS DALZIEL.

     "The book is a remarkable specimen, not only of the
     engraving, but of the printing, of the Brothers
     Dalziel."--Times.

Five Shillings.

Elegant Cloth Binding, Gilt,

AN OLD FAIRY TALE TOLD ANEW IN PICTURES AND VERSE,

BY RICHARD DOYLE AND J. R. PLANCHE.

Five Shillings.

     "The selection comprises several Tales which it is supposed
     have not yet appeared in any English Edition."

Six Shillings.

Complete in One Volume, Extra Cloth Gilt, 750 pages, Crown 8vo., beautifully Printed on Toned
Paper,

THE VICTORIA HISTORY OF ENGLAND,

FROM THE LANDING OF JULIUS CÆSAR, B.C. 54, TO THE MARRIAGE OF H.R.H. ALBERT EDWARD, PRINCE
OF WALES, A.D. 1863.

With a Chronological Table and Summary of Remarkable Events.

MAPS OF THE BRITISH ISLES, AND TABLES, SHOWING THE ROMAN AND MODERN NAMES OF CITIES, TOWNS,
RIVERS, ETC.

FOUR HUNDRED ENGRAVINGS BY THE BROTHERS DALZIEL,

Descriptive of the Manners, Customs, Dress, Architecture, Weapons, Implements, Furniture, Musical
Instruments, &c., of the different periods, taken from the most authentic sources.

BY ARTHUR BAILEY THOMPSON.

*** This work is so constructed as to be peculiarly fitted for School purposes; it is also,
from the vast amount of useful matter contained in its pages, a most entertaining Handbook,
and well suited for a Gift or Prize Book for the Young.

Five Shillings.

Extra Cloth Gilt, on Fine Toned Paper.

GOLDEN LIGHT:

BEING

SCRIPTURE STORIES FOR THE YOUNG. OLD AND NEW TESTAMENT.

EIGHTY LARGE PAGE ENGRAVINGS BY THE BROTHERS DALZIEL, DRAWN BY A. W. BAYES.

Extra Cloth Gilt, on Fine Toned Paper.

A PICTURE HISTORY OF ENGLAND, FROM THE TIME OF THE ANCIENT BRITONS TO THE YEAR 1865.

Written for the Use of the Young.

BY H. W. DULCKEN, PH.D.

WITH EIGHTY ENGRAVINGS BY THE BROTHERS DALZIEL,

FROM DESIGNS BY A. W. BAYES.

Three Shillings and Sixpence.

Extra Cloth Gilt, and Gilt Edges, on Fine Toned Paper.

PICTURE FABLES.

ONE HUNDRED ENGRAVINGS BY THE BROTHERS DALZIEL

FROM ORIGINAL DESIGNS BY OTTO SPECKTER.

WITH RHYMES FROM THE GERMAN OF F. HEY,

TRANSLATED BY H. W. DULCKEN, PH.D.

     "It is difficult to say whether the designs of Otto Speckter
     or the rhymes of Hey are most charming; the book is
     exquisitely got up, and a marvel of cheapness."

Extra Cloth Gilt, on Fine Toned Paper,

THE GOLDEN HARP:

HYMNS, RHYMES, AND SONGS FOR THE YOUNG.

ADAPTED BY H. W. DULCKEN, PH.D.

FIFTY-TWO ILLUSTRATIONS BY J. D. WATSON, T. DALZIEL, AND J. WOLF.

ENGRAVED BY THE BROTHERS DALZIEL.

     "We have not seen so nice a little book as this for many a
     day; all the Artists have done well."--Athenæum.

ONE SHILLING EACH.

In Strong Boards.

BEAUTIFUL PICTURE BOOKS

FOR THE YOUNG.

EACH CONTAINING

EIGHT LARGE PICTURES PRINTED IN OIL COLOURS.

BABY'S BIRTHDAY, AND HOW IT WAS SPENT. MARY'S NEW DOLL. WHEN THE CAT'S AWAY THE MICE WILL PLAY.
THE MISCHIEVOUS PUPPY. ANIMALS AND BIRDS. THE CHILDREN'S FAVOURITES. PICTURES FROM THE STREET.
LOST ON THE SEA SHORE.

GEORGE ROUTLEDGE AND SONS, BROADWAY, LUDGATE HILL.

       *       *       *       *       *

