After these works, Niccolò--under whose discipline Domenico Giuntalodi, a young man of excellent
ability belonging to Prato, had learned the rudiments of the art of painting, although, in
consequence of having acquired the manner of Niccolò, he never became a great master in painting,
as will be related--departed from Prato and came to work in Florence; but, having seen that
the most important works in art were given to better and more eminent men than himself, and
that his manner was not up to the standard of Andrea del Sarto, Pontormo, Rosso, and the others,
he made up his mind to return to Arezzo, in which city he had more friends, greater credit,
and less competition. Which having done, no sooner had he arrived than he made known to M.
Giuliano Bacci, one of the chief citizens of that place, a desire that he had in his heart,
which was this, that he wished that Arezzo should become his country, and that therefore he
would gladly undertake to execute some work which might maintain him for a time in the practice
of his art, whereby he hoped to demonstrate to that city the nature of his talents. Whereupon
Messer Giuliano, an ingenious man who desired that his native city should be embellished and
should contain persons engaged in the arts, so went to work with the men then governing the
Company of the Nunziata, who in those days had caused a great vaulting to be built in their
church, with the intention of having it painted, that one arch of the wall-surface of that
vaulting was allotted to Niccolò; and it was proposed that he should be commissioned to paint
the rest, if the first part, which he had to do then, should please the men of the aforesaid
Company. Having therefore set his hand to this work with great diligence, in two years Niccolò
finished the half, but not more, of one arch, on which he painted in fresco the Tiburtine Sibyl
showing to the Emperor Octavian the Virgin in Heaven with the Infant Jesus Christ in her arms,
and Octavian in reverent adoration. In the figure of Octavian he portrayed the above-mentioned
M. Giuliano Bacci, and his pupil Domenico in a tall young man draped in red, and others of
his friends in other heads; and, in a word, he acquitted himself in this work in such a manner
that it did not displease the men of that Company and the other men of that city. It is true,
indeed, that everyone grew weary of seeing him take so long and toil so much over executing
his works; but notwithstanding all this the rest would have been given to him to finish, if
that had not been prevented by the arrival in Arezzo of the Florentine Rosso, a rare painter,
to whom, after he had been put forward by the Aretine painter Giovanni Antonio Lappoli and
M. Giovanni Pollastra, as has been related in another place, much favour was shown and the
rest of that work allotted. At which Niccolò felt such disdain, that, if he had not taken a
wife the year before and had a son by her, so that he was settled in Arezzo, he would have
departed straightway. However, having finally become pacified, he executed an altar-piece for
the Church of Sargiano, a place two miles distant from Arezzo, where there are Frati Zoccolanti;
in which he painted the Assumption of Our Lady into Heaven, with many little Angels supporting
her, and S. Thomas below receiving the Girdle, while all around are S. Francis, S. Louis, S.
John the Baptist, and S. Elizabeth, Queen of Hungary. In some of these figures, and particularly
in some of the little Angels, he acquitted himself very well; and so also in the predella he
painted some scenes with little figures, which are passing good. He executed, likewise, in
the Convent of the Nuns of the Murate, who belong to the same Order, in that city, a Dead Christ
with the Maries, which is wrought with a high finish for a picture in fresco. In the Abbey
of S. Fiore, a seat of Black Friars, behind the Crucifix that is placed on the high-altar,
he painted in oils, on a canvas, Christ praying in the Garden and the Angel showing to Him
the Chalice of the Passion and comforting Him, which was certainly a work of no little beauty
and excellence. And for the Nuns of S. Benedetto, of the Order of Camaldoli, at Arezzo, on
an arch above a door by which one enters the convent, he painted the Madonna, S. Benedict,
and S. Catharine, a work which was afterwards thrown to the ground in order to enlarge the church.

In the township of Marciano in Valdichiana, where he passed much of his time, living partly
on the revenues that he had in that place and partly on what he could earn there, Niccolò began
an altar-piece of the Dead Christ and many other works, with which he occupied himself for
a time. And meanwhile, having with him the above-mentioned Domenico Giuntalodi of Prato, whom
he loved as a son and kept in his house, he strove to make him excellent in the matters of
art, teaching him so well how to draw in perspective, to copy from nature, and to make designs,
that he was already becoming very able in all these respects, showing a good and beautiful
genius. And this Niccolò did, besides being moved by the love and affection that he bore to
that young man, in the hope of having one who might help him now that he was nearing old age,
and might give him some return in his last years for so much labour and lovingness. Niccolò
was in truth most loving with every man, true by nature, and much the friend of those who laboured
in order to attain to something in the world of art; and what he knew he taught to them with
extraordinary willingness.

No long time after this, when Niccolò had returned from Marciano to Arezzo and Domenico had
left him, the men of the Company of the Corpo di Cristo, in that city, had a commission to
give for the painting of an altar-piece for the high-altar of the Church of S. Domenico. Now,
Niccolò desiring to paint it, and likewise Giorgio Vasari, then a mere lad, the former did
something which probably not many of the men of our art would do at the present day, which
was as follows: Niccolò, who was one of the members of the above-mentioned Company, perceiving
that many were disposed to have it painted by Giorgio, in order to bring him forward, and that
the young man had a very great desire for it, resolved, after remarking Giorgio's zeal, to
lay aside his own desire and need and to have the picture allotted by his companions to Giorgio,
thinking more of the advantage that the young man might gain from the work than of his own
profit and interest; and even as he wished, so exactly did the men of that Company decide.

In the meantime Domenico Giuntalodi, having gone to Rome, found Fortune so propitious that
he became known to Don Martino, the Ambassador of the King of Portugal, and went to live with
him; and he painted for him a canvas with some twenty portraits from life, all of his followers
and friends, with himself in the midst of them, engaged in conversation; which work so pleased
Don Martino, that he looked upon Domenico as the first painter in the world. Afterwards Don
Ferrante Gonzaga, having been made Viceroy of Sicily, and desiring to fortify the towns of
that kingdom, wished to have about his person a man who might draw and put down on paper for
him all that he thought of from day to day; and he wrote to Don Martino that he should find
for him a young man who might be both able and willing to serve him in this way, and should
send him off as soon as possible. Don Martino, therefore, first sent to Don Ferrante some designs
by the hand of Domenico, among which was a Colosseum, engraved on copper by Girolamo Fagiuoli
of Bologna for Antonio Salamanca, but drawn in perspective by Domenico; an old man in a child's
go-cart, drawn by the same hand and published in engraving, with letters that ran thus, "Ancora
imparo"; and a little picture with the portrait of Don Martino himself. And shortly afterwards
he sent Domenico, at the wish of the aforesaid lord, Don Ferrante, who had been much pleased
with that young man's works. Having then arrived in Sicily, there were assigned to Domenico
an honourable salary, a horse, and a servant, all at the expense of Don Ferrante; and not long
afterwards he was set to work on the walls and fortresses of Sicily. Whereupon, abandoning
his painting little by little, he devoted himself to something else which for a time was more
profitable to him; for, being an ingenious person, he made use of men who were well adapted
to heavy labour, kept beasts of burden in the charge of others, and caused sand and lime to
be collected and furnaces to be set up; and no long time had passed before he found that he
had saved so much that he was able to buy offices in Rome to the extent of two thousand crowns,
and shortly afterwards some others. Then, after he had been made keeper of the wardrobe to
Don Ferrante, it happened that his master was removed from the government of Sicily and sent
to that of Milan; whereupon Domenico went with him, and, working on the fortifications of that
State, contrived, what with being industrious and with being something of a miser, to become
very rich; and what is more, he came into such credit that he managed almost everything in
that government.

Hearing of this, Niccolò, who was at Arezzo, now an old man, needy, and without any work to
do, went to find Domenico in Milan, thinking that even as he had not failed Domenico when he
was a young man, so Domenico should not fail him now, but should avail himself of his services,
since he had many in his employ, and should be both able and willing to assist him in his poverty-stricken
old age. But he found to his cost that the judgments of men, in expecting too much from others,
are often deceived, and that the men who change their condition also change more often than
not their nature and their will. For after arriving in Milan, where he found Domenico raised
to such greatness that he had no little difficulty in getting speech of him, Niccolò related
to him all his troubles, and then besought him that he should help him by making use of his
services; but Domenico, not remembering or not choosing to remember with what lovingness he
had been brought up by Niccolò as if he had been his own son, gave him a miserably small sum
of money and got rid of him as soon as he was able. And so Niccolò returned to Arezzo very
sore at heart, having recognized that with the labour and expense with which, as he thought,
he had reared a son, he had formed one who was little less than an enemy.

In order to earn his bread, therefore, he went about executing all the work that came to his
hand, as he had done many years before, and he painted among other things a canvas for the
Commune of Monte Sansovino, containing the said town of Monte Sansovino and a Madonna in the
sky, with two Saints at the sides; which picture was set up on an altar in the Madonna di Vertigli,
a church belonging to the Monks of the Order of Camaldoli, not far distant from the Monte,
where it has pleased and still pleases Our Lord daily to perform many miracles and to grant
favours to those who recommend themselves to the Queen of Heaven. Afterwards, Julius III having
been created Supreme Pontiff, Niccolò, who had been much connected with the house of Monte,
made his way to Rome, although he was an old man of eighty, and, having kissed the foot of
His Holiness, besought him that he should deign to make use of him in the buildings which were
to be erected, so men said, at the Monte, a place which the Lord Duke of Florence had given
in fief to the Pontiff. The Pope, then, having received him warmly, ordained that the means
to live in Rome should be given to him without exacting any sort of exertion from him; and
in this manner Niccolò spent several months in Rome, drawing many antiquities to pass the time.

Meanwhile the Pope resolved to increase his native town of Monte Sansovino, and to make there,
besides many ornamental works, an aqueduct, because that place suffered much from want of water;
and Giorgio Vasari, who had orders from the Pope to cause those buildings to be begun, recommended
Niccolò Soggi strongly to His Holiness, entreating him that Niccolò should be given the office
of superintendent over those works. Whereupon Niccolò went to Arezzo filled with these hopes,
but he had not been there many days when, worn out by the fatigues and hardships of this world
and by the knowledge that he had been abandoned by him who should have been the last to forsake
him, he finished the course of his life and was buried in S. Domenico in that city.

Not long afterwards Domenico Giuntalodi, Don Ferrante Gonzaga having died, departed from Milan
with the intention of returning to Prato and of passing the rest of his life there in repose.
However, finding there neither relatives nor friends, and recognizing that Prato was no abiding
place for him, he repented too late that he had behaved ungratefully to Niccolò, and returned
to Lombardy to serve the sons of Don Ferrante. But no long time passed before he fell sick
unto death; whereupon he made a will leaving ten thousand crowns to his fellow-citizens of
Prato, to the end that they might buy property to that amount and form a fund wherewith to
maintain continually at their studies a certain number of students from Prato, in the manner
in which they maintained certain others, as they still do, according to the terms of another
bequest. And this has been carried out by the men of that town of Prato, who, grateful for
such a benefit, which in truth has been a very great one and worthy of eternal remembrance,
have placed in their Council Chamber the image of Domenico, as that of one who has deserved
well of his country.

FOOTNOTE:

[32] See p. 208, Vol. III.

[33] These words are missing in the text.

INDEX

INDEX OF NAMES

OF THE CRAFTSMEN MENTIONED IN VOLUME VI

    Abacco, Antonio L', 113, 114, 130, 136, 137

    Abbot of S. Clemente (Don Bartolommeo della Gatta), 255

    Agnolo, Baccio d' (Baccio Baglioni), Life, 65-68. 69, 72

    Agnolo, Battista d' (Battista del Moro), Life, 27-28. 108

    Agnolo, Domenico di Baccio d', 68, 70, 72

    Agnolo, Filippo di Baccio d', 68, 70

    Agnolo, Giuliano di Baccio d', Life, 68-72

    Agnolo, Marco di Battista d', 27, 28

    Agnolo Bronzino, 118, 256

    Agostino Viniziano (Agostino de' Musi), Life, 102-103. 106

    Aimo, Domenico (Il Bologna), 217

    Alberti, Leon Batista, 45

    Alberto Monsignori (Bonsignori), 29

    Albrecht (Heinrich) Aldegrever, 119

    Albrecht Dürer, Life, 92-98. 99, 102, 119, 165

    Aldegrever, Albrecht (Heinrich), 119

    Alessandro Cesati (Il Greco), Life, 85

    Alessandro Falconetto, 47, 48

    Alessandro Filipepi (Sandro Botticelli), 91

    Andrea Contucci (Andrea Sansovino), 66, 133

    Andrea dal Castagno, 182

    Andrea de' Ceri, 190-192, 201

    Andrea del Sarto, 60, 106, 255-257, 272, 273

    Andrea Mantegna, 15, 29, 30, 91

    Andrea Palladio, 28, 48

    Andrea Sansovino (Andrea Contucci), 66, 133

    Angelico, Fra (Fra Giovanni da Fiesole), 246

    Anichini, Luigi, 85

    Anselmo Canneri, 22

    Antoine Lafrery (Antonio Lanferri), 113

    Antonio da San Gallo (the elder), 66, 123, 272

    Antonio da San Gallo (the younger), Life, 123-141. 167, 197,
      198, 219, 220, 222

    Antonio da Trento (Antonio Fantuzzi), 108

    Antonio del Pollaiuolo, 182, 246

    Antonio di Giorgio Marchissi, 126

    Antonio di Marco di Giano (Il Carota), 213

