The constituent assembly at Orezza sat for a month. Its sessions passed almost without any
incident of importance except the first appearance of Napoleon as an orator in various public
meetings held in connection with its labors. He is said to have been bashful and embarrassed
in his beginnings, but, inspirited by each occasion, to have become more fluent, and finally
to have won the attention and applause of his hearers. What he said is not known, but he spoke
in Italian, and succeeded in his design of being at least a personage in the pregnant events
now occurring. Both parties were represented in the proceedings and conclusions of the convention.
Corsica was to constitute but a single department. Paoli was elected president of its directory
and commander-in-chief of its National Guard, a combination of offices which again made him
virtual dictator. He accepted them unwillingly, but the honors of a statue and an annual grant
of ten thousand dollars, which were voted at the same time, he absolutely declined. The Paolist
party secured the election of Canon Belce as vice-president, of Panatheri as secretary, of
Arena as Salicetti's substitute, of Pozzo di Borgo and Gentili as members of the directory.
Colonna, one of the delegates to the National Assembly, was a member of the same group. The
younger patriots, or Young Corsica, as we should say now, perhaps, were represented by their
delegate and leader Salicetti, who was chosen as plenipotentiary in Buttafuoco's place, and
by Multedo, Gentili, and Pompei as members of the directory. For the moment, however, Paoli
was Corsica, and such petty politics was significant only as indicating the survival of counter-currents.
There was some dissent to a vote of censure passed upon the conduct of Buttafuoco and Peretti,
but it was insignificant. Pozzo di Borgo and Gentili were chosen to declare at the bar of the
National Assembly the devotion of Corsica to its purposes, and to the course of reform as represented
by it. They were also to secure, if possible, both the permission to form a departmental National
Guard, and the means to pay and arm it.

The choice of Pozzo di Borgo for a mission of such importance in preference to Joseph was a
disappointment to the Buonapartes. In fact, not one of the plans concerted by the two brothers
succeeded. Joseph sustained the pretensions of Ajaccio to be capital of the island, but the
honor was awarded to Bastia. He was not elected a member of the general directory, though he
succeeded in being made a member for Ajaccio in the district directory. Whether to work off
his ill humor, or from far-seeing purpose, Napoleon used the hours not spent in wire-pulling
and listening to the proceedings of the assembly for making a series of excursions which were
a virtual canvass of the neighborhood. The houses of the poorest were his resort; partly by
his inborn power of pleasing, partly by diplomacy, he won their hearts and learned their inmost
feelings. His purse, which was for the moment full, was open for their gratification in a way
which moved them deeply. For years target practice had been forbidden, as giving dangerous
skill in the use of arms. Liberty having returned, Napoleon reorganized many of the old rural
festivals in which contests of that nature had been the chief feature, offering prizes from
his own means for the best marksmen among the youth. His success in feeling the pulse of public
opinion was so great that he never forgot the lesson. Not long afterward, in the neighborhood
of Valence,--in fact, to the latest times,--he courted the society of the lowly, and established,
when possible, a certain intimacy with them. This gave him popularity, while at the same time
it enabled him to obtain the most valuable indications of the general temper.

CHAPTER XI.

Traits of Character.

     Literary Work -- The Lyons Prize -- Essay on Happiness --
     Thwarted Ambition -- The Corsican Patriots -- The Brothers
     Napoleon and Louis -- Studies in Politics -- Reorganization
     of the Army -- The Change in Public Opinion -- A New Leave
     of Absence -- Napoleon Again at Auxonne -- Napoleon as a
     Teacher -- Further Literary Efforts -- The Sentimental
     Journey -- His Attitude Toward Religion.

[Sidenote: 1791.]

On his return to Ajaccio, the rising agitator continued as before to frequent his club. The
action of the convention at Orezza in displacing Buttafuoco had inflamed the young politicians
still more against the renegade. This effect was further heightened when it was known that,
at the reception of their delegates by the National Assembly, the greater council had, under
Mirabeau's leadership, virtually taken the same position regarding both him and his colleague.
Napoleon had written, probably in the previous year, a notorious diatribe against Buttafuoco
in the form of a letter to its object and the very night on which the news from Paris was received,
he seized the opportunity to read it before the club at Ajaccio. The paper, as now in existence,
is pompously dated January twenty-third, 1791, from "my summer house of Milleli." This was
the retreat on one of the little family properties, to which reference has been made. There
in the rocks was a grotto known familiarly by that name; Napoleon had improved and beautified
the spot, using it, as he did his garden at Brienne, for contemplation and quiet study. Although
the letter to Matteo Buttafuoco has been often printed, and was its author's first successful
effort in writing, much emphasis should not be laid on it except in noting the better power
to express tumultuous feeling, and in marking the implications which show an expansion of character.
Insubordinate to France it certainly is, and intemperate; turgid, too, as any youth of twenty
could well make it. No doubt, also, it was intended to secure notoriety for the writer. It
makes clear the thorough apprehension its author had as to the radical character of the Revolution.
It is his final and public renunciation of the royalist principles of Charles de Buonaparte.
It contains also the last profession of morality which a youth is not ashamed to make before
the cynicism of his own life becomes too evident for the castigation of selfishness and insincerity
in others. Its substance is a just reproach to a selfish trimmer; the froth and scum are characteristic
rather of the time and the circumstances than of the personality behind them. There is no further
mention of a difference between the destinies of France and Corsica. To compare the pamphlet
with even the poorest work of Rousseau, as has often been done, is absurd; to vilify it as
ineffective trash is equally so.

As may be imagined, the "Letter" was received with mad applause, and ordered to be printed.
It was now the close of January; Buonaparte's leave had expired on October fifteenth. On November
sixteenth, after loitering a whole month beyond his time, he had secured a document from the
Ajaccio officials certifying that both he and Louis were devoted to the new republican order,
and bespeaking assistance for both in any difficulties which might arise. The busy Corsican
perfectly understood that he might already at that time be regarded as a deserter in France,
but still he continued his dangerous loitering. He had two objects in view, one literary, one
political. Besides the successful "Letter" he had been occupied with a second composition,
the notion of which had probably occupied him as his purse grew leaner. The jury before which
this was to be laid was to be, however, not a heated body of young political agitators, but
an association of old and mature men with calm, critical minds--the Lyons Academy. That society
was finally about to award a prize of fifteen hundred livres founded by Raynal long before--as
early as 1780--for the best thesis on the question: "Has the discovery of America been useful
or hurtful to the human race? If the former, how shall we best preserve and increase the benefits?
If the latter, how shall we remedy the evils?" Americans must regret that the learned body
had been compelled for lack of interest in so concrete a subject to change the theme, and now
offered in its place the question: "What truths and ideas should be inculcated in order best
to promote the happiness of mankind?"

Napoleon's astounding paper on this remarkable theme was finished in December. It bears the
marks of carelessness, haste, and over-confidence in every direction--in style, in content,
and in lack of accuracy. "Illustrious Raynal," writes the author, "the question I am about
to discuss is worthy of your steel, but without assuming to be metal of the same temper, I
have taken courage, saying to myself with Correggio, I, too, am a painter." Thereupon follows
a long encomium upon Paoli, whose principal merit is explained to have been that he strove
in his legislation to keep for every man a property sufficient with moderate exertion on his
own part for the sustenance of life. Happiness consists in living conformably to the constitution
of our organization. Wealth is a misfortune, primogeniture a relic of barbarism, celibacy a
reprehensible practice. Our animal nature demands food, shelter, clothing, and the companionship
of woman. These are the essentials of happiness; but for its perfection we require both reason
and sentiment. These theses are the tolerable portions, being discussed with some coherence.
But much of the essay is mere meaningless rhetoric and bombast, which sounds like the effusion
of a boyish rhapsodist. "At the sound of your [reason's] voice let the enemies of nature be
still, and swallow their serpents' tongues in rage." "The eyes of reason restrain mankind from
the precipice of the passions, as her decrees modify likewise the feeling of their rights."
Many other passages of equal absurdity could be quoted, full of far-fetched metaphor, abounding
in strange terms, straining rhetorical figures to distortion.[22] And yet in spite of the bombast,
certain essential Napoleonic ideas appear in the paper much as they endured to the end, namely,
those on heredity, on the equal division of property, and on the nature of civil society. And
there is one prophetic sentence which deserves to be quoted. "A disordered imagination! there
lies the cause and source of human misfortune. It sends us wandering from sea to sea, from
fancy to fancy, and when at last it grows calm, opportunity has passed, the hour strikes, and
its possessor dies abhorring life." In later days the author threw what he probably supposed
was the only existing manuscript of this vaporing effusion into the fire. But a copy of it
had been made at Lyons, perhaps because one of the judges thought, as he said, that it "might
have been written by a man otherwise gifted with common sense." Another has been found among
the papers confided by Napoleon to Fesch. The proofs of authenticity are complete. It seems
miraculous that its writer should have become, as he did, master of a concise and nervous style
when once his words became the complement of his deeds.

              [Footnote 22: These phrases may nearly all be found in
              the notes which he had taken or jottings he had made
              while reading Voltaire and Rousseau: Napoléon inconnu,
              II, 209-292.]

The second cause for Buonaparte's delay in returning to France on the expiration of his furlough
was his political and military ambition. This was suddenly quenched by the receipt of news
that the Assembly at Paris would not create the longed-for National Guard, nor the ministry
lend itself to any plan for circumventing the law. It was, therefore, evident that every chance
of becoming Paoli's lieutenant was finally gone. By the advice of the president himself, therefore,
Buonaparte determined to withdraw once more to France and to await results. Corsica was still
distracted. A French official sent by the war department just at this time to report on its
condition is not sparing of the language he uses to denounce the independent feeling and anti-French
sympathies of the people. "The Italian," he says, "acquiesces, but does not forgive; an ambitious
man keeps no faith, and estimates his life by his power." The agent further describes the Corsicans
as so accustomed to unrest by forty years of anarchy that they would gladly seize the first
occasion to throw off the domination of laws which restrain the social disorder. The Buonaparte
faction, enumerated with the patriot brigand Zampaglini at their head, he calls "despicable
creatures," "ruined in reputation and credit."

It would be hard to find a higher compliment to Paoli and his friends, considering the source
from which these words emanated. They were all poor and they were all in debt. Even now, in
the age of reform, they saw their most cherished plans thwarted by the presence in every town
of garrisons composed of officers and men who, though long resident in the island, and attached
to its people by many ties, were nevertheless conservative in their feelings, and, by the instinct
of their tradition and discipline, devoted to the still powerful official bureaus not yet destroyed
by the Revolution. To replace these by a well-organized and equipped National Guard was now
the most ardent wish of all patriots. There was nothing unworthy in Napoleon's longing for
a command under the much desired but ever elusive reconstitution of a force organized and armed
according to the model furnished by France itself. Repeated disappointments like those he had
suffered before, and was experiencing again, would have crushed the spirit of a common man.

But the young author had his manuscripts in his pocket; one of them he had means and authority
to publish. Perfectly aware, moreover, of the disorganization in the nation and the army, careless
of the order fulminated on December second, 1790, against absent officers, which he knew to
be aimed especially at the young nobles who were deserting in troops, with his spirit undaunted,
and his brain full of resources, he left Ajaccio on February first, 1791, having secured a
new set of certificates as to his patriotism and devotion to the cause of the Revolution. Like
the good son and the good brother which he had always been, he was not forgetful of his family.
Life at his home had not become easier. Joseph, to be sure, had an office and a career, but
the younger children were becoming a source of expense, and Lucien would not accept the provision
which had been made for him. The next, now ready to be educated and placed, was Louis, a boy
already between twelve and thirteen years old; accordingly Louis accompanied his brother. Napoleon
had no promise, not even an outlook, for the child; but he determined to have him at hand in
case anything should turn up, and while waiting, to give him from his own slender means whatever
precarious education the times and circumstances could afford. We can understand the untroubled
confidence of the boy; we must admire the trust, determination, and self-reliance of the elder
brother.

Though he had overrun his leave for three and a half months, there was not only no severe punishment
in store for Napoleon on his arrival at Auxonne, but there was considerate regard, and, later,
promotion. Officers with military training and loyal to the Assembly were becoming scarce.
The brothers had traveled slowly, stopping first for a short time at Marseilles, and then at
Aix to visit friends, wandering several days in a leisurely way through the parts of Dauphiny
round about Valence. Associating again with the country people, and forming opinions as to
the course of affairs, Buonaparte reopened his correspondence with Fesch on February eighth
from the hamlet of Serve in order to acquaint him with the news and the prospects of the country,
describing in particular the formation of patriotic societies by all the towns to act in concert
for carrying out the decrees of the Assembly.[23] This beginning of "federation for the Revolution,"
as it was called, in its spread finally welded the whole country, civil and even military authorities,
together. Napoleon's presence in the time and place of its beginning explains much that followed.
It was February thirteenth when he rejoined his regiment.

              [Footnote 23: "I am in the cabin of a poor man whence I
              like to write you after long conversation with these
              good people." Nasica, p. 161.]

Comparatively short as had been the time of Buonaparte's absence, everything in France, even
the army, had changed and was still changing. Step by step the most wholesome reforms were
introduced as each in turn showed itself essential: promotion exclusively according to service
among the lower officers; the same, with room for royal discretion, among the higher grades;
division of the forces into regulars, reserves, and national guards, the two former to be still
recruited by voluntary enlistment. The ancient and privileged constabulary, and many other
formerly existing but inefficient armed bodies, were swept away, and the present system of
gendarmerie was created. The military courts, too, were reconstituted under an impartial body
of martial law. Simple numbers were substituted for the titular distinctions hitherto used
by the regiments, and a fair schedule of pay, pensions, and military honors abolished all chance
for undue favoritism. The necessity of compulsory enlistment was urged by a few with all the
energy of powerful conviction, but the plan was dismissed as despotic. The Assembly debated
as to whether, under the new system, king or people should wield the military power. They could
find no satisfactory solution, and finally adopted a weak compromise which went far to destroy
the power of Mirabeau, because carried through by him. The entire work of the commission was
temporarily rendered worthless by these two essential defects--there was no way of filling
the ranks, no strong arm to direct the system.

The first year of trial, 1790, had given the disastrous proof. By this time all monarchical
and absolutist Europe was awakened against France; only a mere handful of enthusiastic men
in England and America, still fewer elsewhere, were in sympathy with her efforts. The stolid
common sense of the rest saw only ruin ahead, and viewed askance the idealism of her unreal
subtleties. The French nobles, sickened by the thought of reform, had continued their silly
and wicked flight; the neighboring powers, now preparing for an armed resistance to the spread
of the Revolution, were not slow to abet them in their schemes. On every border agencies for
the encouragement of desertion were established, and by the opening of 1791 the effective fighting
force of France was more than decimated. There was no longer any question of discipline; it
was enough if any person worthy to command or serve could be retained. But the remedy for this
disorganization was at hand. In the letter to Fesch, to which reference has already been made,
Napoleon, after his observations among the people, wrote: "I have everywhere found the peasants
firm in their stirrups [steadfast in their opinions], especially in Dauphiny. They are all
disposed to perish in support of the constitution. I saw at Valence a resolute people, patriotic
soldiers, and aristocratic officers. There are, however, some exceptions, for the president
of the club is a captain named du Cerbeau. He is captain in the regiment of Forez in garrison
at Valence.... The women are everywhere royalist. It is not amazing; Liberty is a prettier
woman than they, and eclipses them. All the parish priests of Dauphiny have taken the civic
oath; they make sport of the bishop's outcry.... What is called good society is three fourths
aristocratic--that is, they disguise themselves as admirers of the English constitution."

What a concise, terse sketch of that rising tide of national feeling which was soon to make
good all defects and to fill all gaps in the new military system, put the army as part of the
nation under the popular assembly, knit regulars, reserves, and home guard into one, and give
moral support to enforcing the proposal for compulsory enlistment!

This movement was Buonaparte's opportunity. Declaring that he had twice endeavored since the
expiration of his extended furlough to cross into France, he produced certificates to that
effect from the authorities of Ajaccio, and begged for his pay and allowances since that date.
His request was granted. It is impossible to deny the truth of his statement, or the genuineness
of his certificates. But both were loose perversions of a half-truth, shifts palliated by the
uncertainties of a revolutionary epoch. A habitual casuistry is further shown in an interesting
letter written at the same time to M. James, a business friend of Joseph's at Châlons, in which
there occurs a passage of double meaning, to the effect that his elder brother "hopes to come
in person the following year as deputy to the National Assembly," which was no doubt true;
for, in spite of being incapacitated by age, he had already sat in the Corsican convention
and in the Ajaccio councils. But the imperfect French of the passage could also mean, and,
casually read, does carry the idea, that Joseph, being already a deputy, would visit his friend
the following year in person.

Buonaparte's connection with his old regiment was soon to be broken. He joined it on February
thirteenth; he left it on June fourteenth. With these four months his total service was five
years and nine months; but he had been absent, with or without leave, something more than half
the time! His old friends in Auxonne were few in number, if indeed there were any at all. No
doubt his fellow-officers were tired of performing the absentee's duties, and of good-fellowship
there could be in any case but little, with such difference of taste, politics, and fortune
as there was between him and them. However, he made a few new friends; but it was in the main
the old solitary life which he resumed. His own room was in a cheap lodging-house, and, according
to the testimony of a visitor, furnished with a wretched uncurtained couch, a table, and two
chairs. Louis slept on a pallet in a closet near by. All pleasures but those of hope were utterly
banished from those plucky lives, while they studied in preparation for the examination which
might admit the younger to his brother's corps. The elder pinched and scraped to pay the younger's
board; himself, according to a probable but rather untrustworthy account, brushing his own
clothes that they might last longer, and supping often on dry bread. His only place of resort
was the political club. One single pleasure he allowed himself--the occasional purchase of
some long-coveted volume from the shelves of a town bookseller.[24]

              [Footnote 24: Napoléon inconnu, II, 108 et seq.]

Of course neither authorship nor publication was forgotten. During these months were completed
the two short pieces, a "Dialogue on Love," and the acute "Reflections on the State of Nature,"
from both of which quotations have already been given. "I too was once in love," he says of
himself in the former. It could not well have been in Ajaccio, and it must have been the memories
of the old Valence, of a pleasant existence now ended, which called forth the doleful confession.
It was the future Napoleon who was presaged in the antithesis. "I go further than the denial
of its existence; I believe it hurtful to society, to the individual welfare of men." The other
trenchant document demolishes the cherished hypothesis of Rousseau as to man in a state of
nature. The precious manuscripts brought from Corsica were sent to the only publisher in the
neighborhood, at Dôle. The much-revised history was refused; the other--whether by moneys furnished
from the Ajaccio club, or at the author's risk, is not known--was printed in a slim octavo
volume of twenty-one pages, and published with the title, "Letter of Buonaparte to Buttafuoco."
A copy was at once sent to Paoli with a renewed request for such documents as would enable
the writer to complete his pamphlet on Corsica. The patriot again replied in a very discouraging
tone: Buttafuoco was too contemptible for notice, the desired papers he was unable to send,
and such a boy could not in any case be a historian. Buonaparte was undismayed and continued
his researches. Joseph was persuaded to add his solicitations for the desired papers to those
of his brother, but he too received a flat refusal.

Short as was Buonaparte's residence at Auxonne, he availed himself to the utmost of the slackness
of discipline in order to gratify his curiosity as to the state of the country. He paid frequent
visits to Marmont in Dijon, and he made what he called at St. Helena his "Sentimental Journey
to Nuits" in Burgundy. The account he gave Las Cases of the aristocracy in the little city,
and of its assemblies at the mansion of a wine-merchant's widow, is most entertaining. To his
host Gassendi and to the worthy mayor he aired his radical doctrines with great complacence,
but according to his own account he had not the best of it in the discussions which ensued.
Under the empire Gassendi's son was a member of the council of state, and in one of its sessions
he dared to support some of his opinions by quoting Napoleon himself. The Emperor remembered
perfectly the conversation at Nuits, but meaningly said that his friend must have been asleep
and dreaming.

Several traditions which throw some light on Buonaparte's attitude toward religion date from
this last residence in Auxonne. He had been prepared for confirmation at Brienne by a confessor
who was now in retirement at Dôle, the same to whom when First Consul he wrote an acknowledgment
of his indebtedness, adding: "Without religion there is no happiness, no future possible. I
commend me to your prayers." The dwelling of this good man was the frequent goal of his walks
abroad. Again, he once jocularly asked a friend who visited him in his room, if he had heard
mass that morning, opening, as he spoke, a trunk, in which was the complete vestment of a priest.
The regimental chaplain, who must have been his friend, had confided it to him for safe-keeping.
Finally, it was in these dark and never-forgotten days of trial that Louis was confirmed, probably
by the advice of his brother. Even though Napoleon had collaborated with Fesch in the paper
on the oath of priests to the constitution, though he himself had been mobbed in Corsica as
the enemy of the Church, it does not appear that he had any other than decent and reverent
feelings toward religion and its professors.

CHAPTER XII.

The Revolution in the Rhone Valley.

     A Dark Period -- Buonaparte, First Lieutenant -- Second
     Sojourn in Valence -- Books and Reading -- The National
     Assembly of France -- The King Returns from Versailles --
     Administrative Reforms in France -- Passing of the Old Order
     -- Flight of the King -- Buonaparte's Oath to Sustain the
     Constitution -- His View of the Situation -- His
     Revolutionary Zeal -- Insubordination -- Impatience with
     Delay -- A Serious Blunder Avoided -- Return to Corsica.

[Sidenote: 1791.]

The tortuous course of Napoleon's life for the years from 1791 to 1795 has been neither described
nor understood by those who have written in his interest. It was his own desire that his biographies,
in spite of the fact that his public life began after Rivoli, should commence with the recovery
of Toulon for the Convention. His detractors, on the other hand, have studied this prefatory
period with such evident bias that dispassionate readers have been repelled from its consideration.
And yet the sordid tale well repays perusal; for in this epoch of his life many of his characteristic
qualities were tempered and ground to the keen edge they retained throughout. Swept onward
toward the trackless ocean of political chaos, the youth seemed afloat without oars or compass:
in reality, his craft was well under control, and his chart correct. Whether we attribute his
conduct to accident or to design, from an adventurer's point of view the instinct which made
him spread his sails to the breezes of Jacobin favor was quite as sound as that which later,
when Jacobinism came to be abhorred, made him anxious that the fact should be forgotten.

In the earlier stages of army reorganization, changes were made without much regard to personal
merit, the dearth of efficient officers being such that even the most indifferent had some
value. About the first of June, 1791, Buonaparte was promoted to the rank of first lieutenant,
with a salary of thirteen hundred livres, and transferred to the Fourth Regiment, which was
in Valence. He heard the news with mingled feelings: promotion was, of course, welcome, but
he shrank from returning to his former station, and from leaving the three or four warm friends
he had among his comrades in the old regiment. On the ground that the arrangements he had made
for educating Louis would be disturbed by the transfer, he besought the war office for permission
to remain at Auxonne with the regiment, now known as the First. Probably the real ground of
his disinclination was the fear that a residence at Valence might revive the painful emotions
which time had somewhat withered. He may also have felt how discordant the radical opinions
he was beginning to hold would be with those still cherished by his former friends. But the
authorities were inexorable, and on June fourteenth the brothers departed, Napoleon for the
first time leaving debts which he could not discharge: for the new uniform of a first lieutenant,
a sword, and some wood, he owed about a hundred and fifteen livres. This sum he was careful
to pay within a few years and as soon as his affairs permitted.

Arrived at Valence, he found that the old society had vanished. Both the bishop and the Abbé
Saint-Ruf were dead. Mme. du Colombier had withdrawn with her daughter to her country-seat.
The brothers were able, therefore, to take up their lives just where they had made the break
at Auxonne: Louis pursuing the studies necessary for entrance to the corps of officers, Napoleon
teaching him, and frequenting the political club; both destitute and probably suffering, for
the officer's pay was soon far in arrears. In such desperate straits it was a relief for the
elder brother that the allurements of his former associations were dissipated; such companionship
as he now had was among the middle and lower classes, whose estates were more proportionate
to his own, and whose sentiments were virtually identical with those which he professed.

The list of books which he read is significant: Coxe's "Travels in Switzerland," Duclos's "Memoirs
of the Reigns of Louis XIV and Louis XV," Machiavelli's "History of Florence," Voltaire's "Essay
on Manners," Duvernet's "History of the Sorbonne," Le Noble's "Spirit of Gerson," and Dulaure's
"History of the Nobility." There exist among his papers outlines more or less complete of all
these books. They prove that he understood what he read, but unlike other similar jottings
by him they give little evidence of critical power. Aside from such historical studies as would
explain the events preliminary to that revolutionary age upon which he saw that France was
entering, he was carefully examining the attitude of the Gallican Church toward the claims
of the papacy, and considering the rôle of the aristocracy in society. It is clear that he
had no intention of being merely a curious onlooker at the successive phases of the political
and social transmutation already beginning; he was bent on examining causes, comprehending
reasons, and sharing in the movement itself.

By the summer of 1791 the first stage in the transformation of France had almost passed. The
reign of moderation in reform was nearly over. The National Assembly had apprehended the magnitude
but not the nature of its task, and was unable to grasp the consequences of the new constitution
it had outlined. The nation was sufficiently familiar with the idea of the crown as an executive,
but hitherto the executive had been at the same time legislator; neither King nor people quite
knew how the King was to obey the nation when the former, trained in the school of the strictest
absolutism, was deprived of all volition, and the latter gave its orders through a single chamber,
responsive to the levity of the masses, and controlled neither by an absolute veto power, nor
by any feeling of responsibility to a calm public opinion. This was the urgent problem which
had to be solved under conditions the most unfavorable that could be conceived.

During the autumn of 1789 famine was actually stalking abroad. The Parisian populace grew gaunt
and dismal, but the King and aristocracy at Versailles had food in plenty, and the contrast
was heightened by a lavish display in the palace. The royal family was betrayed by one of its
own house, the despicable Philip "Égalité," who sought to stir up the basest dregs of society,
that in the ferment he might rise to the top; hungry Paris, stung to action by rumors which
he spread and by bribes which he lavished, put Lafayette at its head, and on October fifth
marched out to the gates of the royal residence in order to make conspicuous the contrast between
its own sufferings and the wasteful comfort of its servants, as the King and his ministers
were now considered to be. Louis and the National Assembly yielded to the menace, the court
returned to Paris, politics grew hotter and more bitter, the fickleness of the mob became a
stronger influence. Soon the Jacobin Club began to wield the mightiest single influence, and
as it did so it grew more and more radical.

Throughout the long and trying winter the masses remained, nevertheless, quietly expectant.
There was much tumultuous talk, but action was suspended while the Assembly sat and struggled
to solve its problem, elaborating a really fine paper constitution. Unfortunately, the provisions
of the document had no relation to the political habits of the French nation, or to the experience
of England and the United States, the only free governments then in existence. Feudal privilege,
feudal provinces, feudal names having been obliterated, the whole of France was rearranged
into administrative departments, with geographical in place of historical boundaries. It was
felt that the ecclesiastical domains, the holders of which were considered as mere trustees,
should be adapted to the same plan, and this was done. Ecclesiastical as well as aristocratic
control was thus removed by the stroke of a pen. In other words, by the destruction of the
mechanism through which the temporal and spiritual authorities exerted the remnants of their
power, they were both completely paralyzed. The King was denied all initiative, being granted
merely a suspensive veto, and in the reform of the judicial system the prestige of the lawyers
was also destroyed. Royalty was turned into a function, and the courts were stripped of both
the moral and physical force necessary to compel obedience to their decrees. Every form of
the guardianship to which for centuries the people had been accustomed was thus removed--royal,
aristocratic, ecclesiastical, and judicial. Untrained to self-control, they were as ready for
mad excesses as were the German Anabaptists after the Reformation or the English sectaries
after the execution of Charles.

Attention has been called to the disturbances which arose in Auxonne and elsewhere, to the
emigration of the nobles from that quarter, to the utter break between the parish priests and
the higher church functionaries in Dauphiny; this was but a sample of the whole. When, on July
fourteenth, 1790, the King accepted a constitution which decreed a secular reorganization of
the ecclesiastical hierarchy according to the terms of which both bishops and priests were
to be elected by the taxpayers, two thirds of all the clergy in France refused to swear allegiance
to it. All attempts to establish the new administrative and judicial systems were more or less
futile; the disaffection of officials and lawyers became more intense. In Paris alone the changes
were introduced with some success, the municipality being rearranged into forty-eight sections,
each with a primary assembly. These were the bodies which later gave Buonaparte the opening
whereby he entered his real career. The influence of the Jacobin Club increased, just in proportion
as the majority of its members grew more radical. Necker trimmed to their demands, but lost
popularity by his monotonous calls for money, and fell in September, reaching his home on Lake
Leman only with the greatest difficulty. Mirabeau succeeded him as the sole possible prop to
the tottering throne. Under his leadership the moderate monarchists, or Feuillants, as they
were later called, from the convent of that order to which they withdrew, seceded from the
Jacobins, and before the Assembly had ceased its work the nation was cleft in two, divided
into opponents and adherents of monarchy. As if to insure the disasters of such an antagonism,
the Assembly, which numbered among its members every man in France of ripe political experience,
committed the incredible folly of self-effacement, voting that not one of its members should
be eligible to the legislature about to be chosen.

A new impulse to the revolutionary movement was given by the death of Mirabeau on April second,
1791. His obsequies were celebrated in many places, and, being a native of Provence, there
were probably solemn ceremonies at Valence. There is a tradition that they occurred during
Buonaparte's second residence in the city, and that it was he who superintended the draping
of the choir in the principal church. It is said that the hangings were arranged to represent
a funerary urn, and that beneath, in conspicuous letters, ran the legend: "Behold what remains
of the French Lycurgus." Mirabeau had indeed displayed a genius for politics, his scheme for
a strong ministry, chosen from the Assembly, standing in bold relief against the feebleness
of Necker in persuading Louis to accept the suspensive veto, and to choose his cabinet without
relation to the party in power. When the mad dissipation of the statesman's youth demanded
its penalty at the hour so critical for France, the King and the moderates alike lost courage.
In June the worried and worn-out monarch determined that the game was not worth the playing,
and on the twenty-first he fled. Though he was captured, and brought back to act the impossible
rôle of a democratic prince, the patriots who had wished to advance with experience and tradition
as guides were utterly discredited. All the world could see how pusillanimous was the royalty
they had wished to preserve, and the masses made up their mind that, real or nominal, the institution
was not only useless, but dangerous. This feeling was strong in the Rhone valley and the adjoining
districts, which have ever been the home of extreme radicalism. Sympathy with Corsica and the
Corsicans had long been active in southeastern France. Neither the island nor its people were
felt to be strange. When a society for the defense of the constitution was formed in Valence,
Buonaparte, though a Corsican, was at first secretary, then president, of the association.

The "Friends of the Constitution" grew daily more numerous, more powerful, and more radical
in that city; and when the great solemnity of swearing allegiance to the new order was to be
celebrated, it was chosen as a convenient and suitable place for a convention of twenty-two
similar associations from the neighboring districts. The meeting took place on July third,
1791; the official administration of the oath to the civil, military, judicial, and ecclesiastical
authorities occurred on the fourteenth. Before a vast altar erected on the drill-ground, in
the presence of all the dignitaries, with cannon booming and the air resounding with shouts
and patriotic songs, the officials in groups, the people in mass, swore with uplifted hands
to sustain the constitution, to obey the National Assembly, and to die, if need be, in defending
French territory against invasion. Scenes as impressive and dramatic as this occurred all over
France. They appealed powerfully to the imagination of the nation, and profoundly influenced
public opinion. "Until then," said Buonaparte, referring to the solemnity, "I doubt not that
if I had received orders to turn my guns against the people, habit, prejudice, education, and
the King's name would have induced me to obey. With the taking of the national oath it became
otherwise; my instincts and my duty were thenceforth in harmony."

But the position of liberal officers was still most trying. In the streets and among the people
they were in a congenial atmosphere; behind the closed doors of the drawing-rooms, in the society
of ladies, and among their fellows in the mess, there were constraint and suspicion. Out of
doors all was exultation; in the houses of the hitherto privileged classes all was sadness
and uncertainty. But everywhere, indoors or out, was spreading the fear of war, if not civil
at least foreign war, with the French emigrants as the allies of the assailants. On this point
Buonaparte was mistaken. As late as July twenty-seventh, 1791, he wrote to Naudin, an intimate
friend who was chief of the military bureau at Auxonne: "Will there be war? No; Europe is divided
between sovereigns who rule over men and those who rule over cattle and horses. The former
understand the Revolution, and are terrified; they would gladly make personal sacrifices to
annihilate it, but they dare not lift the mask for fear the fire should break out in their
own houses. See the history of England, Holland, etc. Those who bear the rule over horses misunderstand
and cannot grasp the bearing of the constitution. They think this chaos of incoherent ideas
means an end of French power. You would suppose, to listen to them, that our brave patriots
were about to cut one another's throats and with their blood purge the land of the crimes committed
against kings." The news contained in this letter is most interesting. There are accounts of
the zeal and spirit everywhere shown by the democratic patriots, of a petition for the trial
of the King sent up from the recent meeting at Valence, and an assurance by the writer that
his regiment is "sure," except as to half the officers. He adds in a postscript: "The southern
blood courses in my veins as swiftly as the Rhone. Pardon me if you feel distressed in reading
my scrawl."[25]

              [Footnote 25: Buonaparte to Naudin, 27 July, 1791, in
              Buchez et Roux, Histoire Parlementaire, XVII, 56.]

Restlessness is the habit of the agitator, and Buonaparte's temperament was not exceptional.
His movements and purposes during the months of July and August are very uncertain in the absence
of documentary evidence sufficient to determine them. But his earliest biographers, following
what was in their time a comparatively short tradition, enable us to fix some things with a
high degree of probability. The young radical had been but two months with his new command
when he began to long for change; the fever of excitement and the discomfort of his life, with
probably some inkling that a Corsican national guard would ere long be organized, awakened
in him a purpose to be off once more, and accordingly he applied for leave of absence. His
colonel, a very lukewarm constitutionalist, angry at the notoriety which his lieutenant was
acquiring, had already sent in a complaint of Buonaparte's insubordinate spirit and of his
inattention to duty. Standing on a formal right, he therefore refused the application. With
the quick resource of a schemer, Buonaparte turned to a higher authority, his friend Duteil,
who was inspector-general of artillery in the department and not unfavorable. Something, however,
must have occurred to cause delay, for weeks passed and the desired leave was not granted.

While awaiting a decision the applicant was very uneasy. To friends he said that he would soon
be in Paris; to his great-uncle he wrote, "Send me three hundred livres; that sum would take
me to Paris. There, at least, a person can show himself, overcome obstacles. Everything tells
me that I shall succeed there. Will you stop me for lack of a hundred crowns?" And again: "I
am waiting impatiently for the six crowns my mother owes me; I need them sadly." These demands
for money met with no response. The explanation of Buonaparte's impatience is simple enough.
One by one the provincial societies which had been formed to support the constitution were
affiliating themselves with the influential Jacobins at Paris, who were now the strongest single
political power in the country. He was the recognized leader of their sympathizers in the Rhone
valley. He evidently intended to go to headquarters and see for himself what the outlook was.
With backers such as he thus hoped to find, some advantage, perhaps even the long-desired command
in Corsica, might be secured.

It was rare good fortune that the young hotspur was not yet to be cast into the seething caldron
of French politics. The time was not yet ripe for the exercise of his powers. The storming
of the Bastille had symbolized the overthrow of privilege and absolute monarchy; the flight
of the King presaged the overthrow of monarchy, absolute or otherwise. The executive gone,
the legislature popular and democratic but ignorant how to administer or conduct affairs, the
judiciary equally disorganized, and the army transforming itself into a patriotic organization--was
there more to come? Yes. Thus far, in spite of well-meant attempts to substitute new constructions
for the old, all had been disintegration. French society was to be reorganized only after further
pulverizing; cohesion would begin only under pressure from without--a pressure applied by the
threats of erratic royalists that they would bring in the foreign powers to coerce and arbitrate,
by the active demonstrations of the emigrants, by the outbreak of foreign wars. These were
the events about to take place; they would in the end evolve from the chaos of mob rule first
the irregular and temporary dictatorship of the Convention, then the tyranny of the Directory;
at the same time they would infuse a fervor of patriotism, into the whole mass of the French
nation, stunned, helpless, and leaderless, but loyal, brave, and vigorous. In such a crisis
the people would tolerate, if not demand, a leader strong to exact respect for France and to
enforce his commands; would prefer the vigorous mastery of one to the feeble misrule of the
many or the few. Still further, the man was as unready as the time; for it was, in all probability,
not as a Frenchman but as an ever true Corsican patriot that Buonaparte wished to "show himself,
overcome obstacles" at this conjuncture.

On August fourth, 1791, the National Assembly at last decided to form a paid volunteer national
guard of a hundred thousand men, and their decision became a law on August twelfth. The term
of enlistment was a year; four battalions were to be raised in Corsica. Buonaparte heard of
the decision on August tenth, and was convinced that the hour for realizing his long-cherished
aspirations had finally struck. He could certainly have done much in Paris to secure office
in a French-Corsican national guard, and with this in mind he immediately wrote a memorandum
on the armament of the new force, addressing it, with characteristic assurance, to the minister
of war. When, however, three weeks later, on August thirtieth, 1791, a leave of absence arrived,
to which he was entitled in the course of routine, and which was not granted by the favor of
any one, he had abandoned all idea of service under France in the Corsican guard. The disorder
of the times was such that while retaining office in the French army he could test in an independent
Corsican command the possibility of climbing to leadership there before abandoning his present
subordinate place in France. In view, apparently, of this new venture, he had for some time
been taking advances from the regimental paymaster, until he had now in hand a considerable
sum--two hundred and ninety livres. A formal announcement to the authorities might have elicited
embarrassing questions from them, so he and Louis quietly departed without explanations, leaving
for the second time debts of considerable amount. They reached Ajaccio on September sixth,
1791. Napoleon was not actually a deserter, but he had in contemplation a step toward the defiance
of French authority--the acceptance of service in a Corsican military force.

CHAPTER XIII.

Buonaparte the Corsican Jacobin.

     Buonaparte's Corsican Patriotism -- His Position in His
     Family -- The Situation of Joseph -- Corsican Politics --
     Napoleon's Power in the Jacobin Club of Ajaccio -- His
     Failure as a Contestant for Literary Honors -- Appointed
     Adjutant-General -- His Attitude Toward France -- His New
     Ambitions -- Use of Violence -- Lieutenant-Colonel of
     Volunteers -- Politics in Ajaccio -- His First Experience of
     Street Warfare -- His Manifesto -- Dismissed to Paris -- His
     Plans -- The Position of Louis XVI -- Buonaparte's
     Delinquencies -- Disorganization in the Army -- Petition for
     Reinstatement -- The Marseillais -- Buonaparte a Spectator
     -- His Estimate of France -- His Presence at the Scenes of
     August Tenth -- State of Paris -- Flight of Lafayette.

[Sidenote: 1791-92.]

This was the third time in four years that Buonaparte had revisited his home.[26] On the plea
of ill health he had been able the first time to remain a year and two months, giving full
play to his Corsican patriotism and his own ambitions by attendance at Orezza, and by political
agitation among the people. The second time he had remained a year and four months, retaining
his hold on his commission by subterfuges and irregularities which, though condoned, had strained
his relations with the ministry of war in Paris. He had openly defied the royal authority,
relying on the coming storm for the concealment of his conduct if it should prove reprehensible,
or for preferment in his own country if Corsica should secure her liberties. There is no reason,
therefore, to suppose that his intentions for the third visit were different from those displayed
in the other two, although again solicitude for his family was doubtless one of many considerations.

              [Footnote 26: It is not entirely clear whether he
              arrived late in September or early in October, 1791. He
              remained until May, 1792.]

During Napoleon's absence from Corsica the condition of his family had not materially changed.
Soon after his arrival the old archdeacon died, and his little fortune fell to the Buonapartes.
Joseph, failing shortly afterward in his plan of being elected deputy to the French legislature,
was chosen a member of the Corsican directory. He was, therefore, forced to occupy himself
entirely with his new duties and to live at Corte. Fesch, as the eldest male, the mother's
brother, and a priest at that, expected to assume the direction of the family affairs. But
he was doomed to speedy disenchantment: thenceforward Napoleon was the family dictator. In
conjunction with his uncle he used the whole or a considerable portion of the archdeacon's
savings for the purchase of several estates from the national domain, as the sequestrated lands
of the monasteries were called. Rendered thus more self-important, he talked much in the home
circle concerning the greatness of classical antiquity, and wondered "who would not willingly
have been stabbed, if only he could have been Cæsar? One feeble ray of his glory would be an
ample recompense for sudden death." Such chances for Cæsarism as the island of Corsica afforded
were very rapidly becoming better.

The Buonapartes had no influence whatever in these elections. Joseph was not even nominated.
The choice fell upon two men selected by Paoli: one of them, Peraldi, was already embittered
against the family; the other, Pozzo di Borgo, though so far friendly enough, thereafter became
a relentless foe. Rising to eminence as a diplomat, accepting service in one and another country
of Europe, the latter thwarted Napoleon at several important conjunctures. Paoli is thought
by some to have been wounded by the frank criticism of his strategy by Napoleon: more likely
he distrusted youths educated in France, and who, though noisy Corsicans, were, he shrewdly
guessed, impregnated with French idealism. He himself cared for France only as by her help
the largest possible autonomy for Corsica could be secured. In the directory of the department
of Corsica, Joseph, and with him the Buonaparte influence, was reduced to impotence, while
gratified with high position. The ignorance of the administrators was only paralleled by the
difficulties of their work.

During the last few months religious agitation had been steadily increasing. Pious Catholics
were embittered by the virtual expulsion of the old clergy, and the induction to office of
new priests who had sworn to uphold the constitution. Amid the disorders of administration
the people in ever larger numbers had secured arms; as of yore, they appeared at their assemblies
under the guidance of their chiefs, ready to fight at a moment's notice. It was but a step
to violence, and without any other provocation than religious exasperation the townsfolk of
Bastia had lately sought to kill their new bishop. Even Arena, who had so recently seized the
place in Paoli's interest, was now regarded as a French radical, maltreated, and banished with
his supporters to Italy. The new election was at hand; the contest between the Paolists and
the extreme French party grew hotter and hotter. Not only deputies to the new assembly, but
likewise the superior officers of the new guard, were to be elected. Buonaparte, being only
a lieutenant of the regulars, could according to the law aspire no higher than an appointment
as adjutant-major with the title and pay of captain. It was not worth while to lose his place
in France for this, so he determined to stand for one of the higher elective offices, that
of lieutenant-colonel, a position which would give him more power, and, under the latest legislation,
entitle him to retain his grade in the regular army.

There were now two political clubs in Ajaccio: that of the Corsican Jacobins, country people
for the most part; and that of the Corsican Feuillants, composed of the officials and townsfolk.
Buonaparte became a moving spirit in the former, and determined at any cost to destroy the
influence of the latter. The two previous attempts to secure Ajaccio for the radicals had failed;
a third was already under consideration. The new leader began to garnish his language with
those fine and specious phrases which thenceforth were never wanting in his utterances at revolutionary
crises. "Law," he wrote about this time, "is like those statues of some of the gods which are
veiled under certain circumstances." For a few weeks there was little or nothing to do in the
way of electioneering at home; he therefore obtained permission to travel with the famous Volney,
who desired a philosopher's retreat from Paris storms and had been chosen director of commerce
and manufactures in the island. This journey was for a candidate like Buonaparte invaluable
as a means of observation and of winning friends for his cause.

Before the close of this trip his furlough had expired, his regiment had been put on a war
footing, and orders had been issued for the return of every officer to his post by Christmas
day. But in the execution of his fixed purpose the young Corsican patriot was heedless of military
obligations to France, and wilfully remained absent from duty. Once more the spell of a wild,
free life was upon him; he was enlisted for the campaign, though without position or money
to back him. The essay on happiness which he had presented to the Academy of Lyons had failed,
as a matter of course, to win the prize, one of the judges pronouncing it "too badly arranged,
too uneven, too disconnected, and too badly written to deserve attention." This decision was
a double blow, for it was announced about this time, at a moment when fame and money would
both have been most welcome. The scanty income from the lands purchased with the legacy of
the old archdeacon remained the only resource of the family for the lavish hospitality which,
according to immemorial, semi-barbarous tradition, was required of a Corsican candidate.

A peremptory order was now issued from Paris that those officers of the line who had been serving
in the National Guard with a grade lower than that of lieutenant-colonel should return to regular
service before April first, 1792. Here was an implication which might be turned to account.
As a lieutenant on leave, Buonaparte should of course have returned on December twenty-fifth;
if, however, he were an officer of volunteers he could plead the new order. Though as yet the
recruits had not come in, and no companies had been formed, the mere idea was sufficient to
suggest a means for saving appearances. An appointment as adjutant-major was solicited from
the major-general in command of the department, and he, under authorization obtained in due
time from Paris, granted it. Safe from the charge of desertion thus far, it was essential for
his reputation and for his ambition that Buonaparte should be elected lieutenant-colonel. Success
would enable him to plead that his first lapse in discipline was due to irregular orders from
his superior, that anyhow he had been an adjutant-major, and that finally the position of lieutenant-colonel
gave him immunity from punishment, and left him blameless.

He nevertheless was uneasy, and wrote two letters of a curious character to his friend Sucy,
the commissioner-general at Valence. In the first, written five weeks after the expiration
of his leave, he calmly reports himself, and gives an account of his occupations, mentioning
incidentally that unforeseen circumstances, duties the dearest and most sacred, had prevented
his return. His correspondent would be so kind as not to mention the letter to the "gentlemen
of the regiment," but the writer would immediately return if his friend in his unassisted judgment
thought best. In the second he plumply declares that in perilous times the post of a good Corsican
is at home, that therefore he had thought of resigning, but his friends had arranged the middle
course of appointing him adjutant-major in the volunteers so that he could make his duty as
a soldier conform to his duty as a patriot. Asking for news of what is going on in France,
he says, writing like an outsider, "If your nation loses courage at this moment, it is done
with forever."

It was toward the end of March that the volunteers from the mountains began to appear in Ajaccio
for the election of their officers. Napoleon had bitter and powerful rivals, but his recent
trip had apparently enabled him to win many friends among the men. While, therefore, success
was possible by that means, there was another influence almost as powerful--that of three commissioners
appointed by the directory of the island to organize and equip the battalion. These were Morati,
a friend of Peraldi, the Paolist deputy; Quenza, more or less neutral, and Grimaldi, a devoted
partisan of the Buonapartes. With skilful diplomacy Napoleon agreed that he would not presume
to be a candidate for the office of first lieutenant-colonel, which was desired by Peretti,
a near friend of Paoli, for his brother-in-law, Quenza, but would seek the position of second
lieutenant-colonel. In this way he was assured of good will from two of the three commissioners;
the other was of course hostile, being a partizan of Peraldi.

The election, as usual in Corsica, seems to have passed in turbulence and noisy violence. His
enemies attacked Buonaparte with every weapon: their money, their influence, and in particular
with ridicule. His stature, his poverty, and his absurd ambitions were held up to contempt
and scorn. The young hotspur was cut to the quick, and, forgetting Corsican ways, made the
witless blunder of challenging Peraldi to a duel, an institution scorned by the Corsican devotees
of the vendetta. The climax of contempt was Peraldi's failure even to notice the challenge.
At the crisis, Salicetti, a warm friend of the Buonapartes and a high official of the department,
appeared with a considerable armed force to maintain order. This cowed the conservatives. The
third commissioner, living as a guest with Peraldi, was seized during the night preceding the
election by a body of Buonaparte's friends, and put under lock and key in their candidate's
house--"to make you entirely free; you were not free where you were," said the instigator of
the stroke, when called to explain. To the use of fine phrases was now added a facility in
employing violence at a pinch which likewise remained characteristic of Buonaparte's career
down to the end. Nasica, who alone records the tale, sees in this event the precursor of the
long series of state-strokes which culminated on the eighteenth Brumaire. There is a story
that in one of the scuffles incident to this brawl a member of Pozzo di Borgo's family was
thrown down and trampled on. Be that as it may, Buonaparte was successful. This of course intensified
the hatred already existing, and from that moment the families of Peraldi and of Pozzo di Borgo
were his deadly enemies.

Quenza, who was chosen first lieutenant-colonel, was a man of no character whatever, a nobody.
He was moreover absorbed in the duties of a place in the departmental administration. Buonaparte,
therefore, was in virtual command of a sturdy, well-armed, legal force. Having been adjutant-major,
and being now a regularly elected lieutenant-colonel according to statute, he applied, with
a well-calculated effrontery, to his regimental paymaster for the pay which had accrued during
his absence. It was at first refused, for in the interval he had been cashiered for remaining
at home in disobedience to orders; but such were the irregularities of that revolutionary time
that later, virtual deserter as he had been, it was actually paid and he was restored to his
place. He sought and obtained from the military authorities of the island certificates of his
regular standing and leave to present them in Paris if needed to maintain his rank as a French
officer, but in the final event there was no necessity for their use. No one was more adroit
than Buonaparte in taking advantage of possibilities. He was a pluralist without conscience.
A French regular if the emergency should demand it, he was likewise a Corsican patriot and
commander in the volunteer guard of the island, fully equipped for another move. Perhaps, at
last, he could assume with success the liberator's rôle of Sampiero. But an opportunity must
occur or be created. One was easily arranged.

Ajaccio had gradually become a resort for many ardent Roman Catholics who had refused to accept
the new order. The town authorities, although there were some extreme radicals among them,
were, on the whole, in sympathy with these conservatives. Through the devices of his friends
in the city government, Buonaparte's battalion, the second, was on one pretext or another assembled
in and around the town. Thereupon, following the most probable account, which, too, is supported
by Buonaparte's own story, a demand was made that according to the recent ecclesiastical legislation
of the National Assembly, the Capuchin monks, who had been so far undisturbed, should evacuate
their friary. Feeling ran so high that the other volunteer companies were summoned; they arrived
on April first. At once the public order was jeopardized: on one extreme were the religious
fanatics, on the other the political agitators, both of whom were loud with threats and ready
for violence. In the middle, between two fires, was the mass of the people, who sympathized
with the ecclesiastics, but wanted peace at any hazard. Quarreling began first between individuals
of the various factions, but it soon resulted in conflicts between civilians and the volunteer
guard. The first step taken by the military was to seize and occupy the cloister, which lay
just below the citadel, the final goal of their leader, whoever he was, and the townsfolk believed
it was Buonaparte. Once inside the citadel walls, the Corsicans in the regular French service
would, it was hoped, fraternize with their kin; with such a beginning, all the garrison might
in time be won over.

This further exasperated the ultramontanes, and on Easter day, April eighth, they made demonstrations
so serious that the scheming commander--Buonaparte again, it was believed--found the much desired
pretext to interfere; there was a mêlée, and one of the militia officers was killed. Next morning
the burghers found their town beset by the volunteers. Good citizens kept to their houses,
while the acting mayor and the council were assembled to authorize an attack on the citadel.
The authorities could not agree, and dispersed; the following forenoon it was discovered that
the acting mayor and his sympathizers had taken refuge in the citadel. From the vantage of
this stronghold they proposed to settle the difficulty by the arbitration of a board composed
of two from each side, under the presidency of the commandant. There was again no agreement.

Worn out at last by the haggling and delay, an officer of the garrison finally ordered the
militia officers to withdraw their forces. By the advice of some determined radical--Buonaparte
again, in all probability--the latter flatly refused, and the night was spent in preparation
for a conflict which seemed inevitable. But early in the morning the commissioners of the department,
who had been sent by Paoli to preserve the peace, arrived in a body. They were welcomed gladly
by the majority of the people, and, after hearing the case, dismissed the battalion of volunteers
to various posts in the surrounding country. Public opinion immediately turned against Buonaparte,
convinced as the populace was that he was the author of the entire disturbance. The commander
of the garrison was embittered, and sent a report to the war department displaying the young
officer's behavior in the most unfavorable light. Buonaparte's defense was contained in a manifesto
which made the citizens still more furious by its declaration that the whole civic structure
of their town was worthless, and should have been overthrown.

The aged Paoli found his situation more trying with every day. Under a constitutional monarchy,
such as he had admired and studied in England, such as he even yet hoped for and expected in
France, he had believed his own land might find a virtual autonomy. With riot and disorder
in every town, it would not be long before the absolute disqualification of his countrymen
for self-government would be proved and the French administration restored. For his present
purpose, therefore, the peace must be kept, and Buonaparte, upon whom, whether justly or not,
the blame for these recent broils rested, must be removed elsewhere, if possible; but as the
troublesome youth was the son of an old friend and the head of a still influential family,
it must be done without offense. The government at Paris might be pacified if the absentee
officer were restored to his post; with Quenza in command of the volunteers, there would be
little danger of a second outbreak in Ajaccio.

It was more than easy, therefore, for the discredited revolutionary, on the implied condition
and understanding that he should leave Corsica, to secure from the authorities the papers necessary
to put himself and his actions in the most favorable light. Buonaparte armed himself accordingly
with an authenticated certificate as to the posts he had held, and the period during which
he had held them, and with another as to his "civism"--the phrase used at that time to designate
the quality of friendliness to the Revolution. The former seems to have been framed according
to his own statements, and was speciously deceptive; yet in form the commander-in-chief, the
municipality of Ajaccio, and the authorities of the department were united in certifying to
his unblemished character and regular standing. This was something. Whither should the scapegoat
betake himself? Valence, where the royalist colonel regarded him as a deserter, was of course
closed, and in Paris alone could the necessary steps be taken to secure restoration to rank
with back pay, or rather the reversal of the whole record as it then stood on the regimental
books. For this reason he likewise secured letters of introduction to the leading Corsicans
in the French capital. His departure was so abrupt as to resemble flight. He hastened to Corte,
and remained just long enough to understand the certainty of his overwhelming loss in public
esteem throughout Corsica. On the way he is said to have seen Paoli for a short time and to
have received some encouragement in a plan to raise another battalion of volunteers. Joseph
claimed to have advised his brother to have nothing to do with the plan, but to leave immediately
for France. In any case Napoleon's mind was clear. A career in Corsica on the grand scale was
impossible for him. Borrowing money for the journey, he hurried away and sailed from Bastia
on May second, 1792. The outlook might have disheartened a weaker man. Peraldi, the Corsican
deputy, was a near relative of the defeated rival; Paoli's displeasure was only too manifest;
the bitter hate of a large element in Ajaccio, including the royalist commander of the garrison,
was unconcealed. Napoleon's energy, rashness, and ambition combined to make Pozzo di Borgo
detest him. He was accused of being a traitor, the source of all trouble, of plotting a new
St. Bartholomew, ready for any horror in order to secure power. Rejected by Corsica, would
France receive him? Would not the few French friends he had be likewise alienated by these
last escapades? Could the formal record of regimental offenses be expunged? In any event, how
slight the prospect of success in the great mad capital, amid the convulsive throes of a nation's
disorders!

But in the last consideration lay his only chance: the nation's disorder was to supply the
remedy for Buonaparte's irregularities. The King had refused his sanction to the secularization
of the estates which had once been held by the emigrants and recusant ecclesiastics; the Jacobins
retorted by open hostility to the monarchy. The plotting of noble and princely refugees with
various royal and other schemers two years before had been a crime against the King and the
constitutionalists, for it jeopardized their last chance for existence, even their very lives.
Within so short a time what had been criminal in the emigrants had seemingly become the only
means of self-preservation for their intended victim. His constitutional supporters recognized
that, in the adoption of this course by the King, the last hope of a peaceful solution to their
awful problem had disappeared. It was now almost certain and generally believed that Louis
himself was in negotiation with the foreign sovereigns; to thwart his plans and avert the consequences
it was essential that open hostilities against his secret allies should be begun. Consequently,
on April twentieth, 1792, by the influence of the King's friends war had been declared against
Austria. The populace, awed by the armies thus called out, were at first silently defiant,
an attitude which changed to open fury when the defeat of the French troops in the Austrian
Netherlands was announced.

The moderate republicans, or Girondists, as they were called from the district where they were
strongest, were now the mediating party; their leader, Roland, was summoned to form a ministry
and appease this popular rage. It was one of his colleagues who had examined the complaint
against Buonaparte received from the commander of the garrison at Ajaccio. According to a strict
interpretation of the military code there was scarcely a crime which Buonaparte had not committed:
desertion, disobedience, tampering, attack on constituted authority, and abuse of official
power. The minister reported the conduct of both Quenza and Buonaparte as most reprehensible,
and declared that if their offense had been purely military he would have court-martialed them.

Learning first at Marseilles that war had broken out, and that the companies of his regiment
were dispersed to various camps for active service, Buonaparte hastened northward. A new passion,
which was indicative of the freshly awakened patriotism, had taken possession of the popular
fancy. Where the year before the current and universal phrase had been "federation," the talk
was now all for the "nation." It might well be so. Before the traveler arrived at his destination
further disaster had overtaken the French army, one whole regiment had deserted under arms
to the enemy, and individual soldiers were escaping by hundreds. The officers of the Fourth
Artillery were resigning and running away in about equal numbers. Consternation ruled supreme,
treason and imbecility were everywhere charged against the authorities. War within, war without,
and the army in a state of collapse! The emigrant princes would return, and France be sold
to a bondage tenfold more galling than that from which she was struggling to free herself.

When Buonaparte reached Paris on May twenty-eighth, 1792, the outlook was poor for a suppliant,
bankrupt in funds and nearly so in reputation; but he was undaunted, and his application for
reinstatement in the artillery was made without the loss of a moment. A new minister of war
had been appointed but a few days before,--there were six changes in that office during as
many months,--and the assistant now in charge of the artillery seemed favorable to the request.
For a moment he thought of restoring the suppliant to his position, but events were marching
too swiftly, and demands more urgent jostled aside the claims of an obscure lieutenant with
a shady character. Buonaparte at once grasped the fact that he could win his cause only by
patience or by importunity, and began to consider how he should arrange for a prolonged stay
in the capital. His scanty resources were already exhausted, but he found Bourrienne, a former
school-fellow at Brienne, in equal straits, waiting like himself for something to turn up.
Over their meals in a cheap restaurant on the Rue St. Honoré they discussed various means of
gaining a livelihood, and seriously contemplated a partnership in subletting furnished rooms.
But Bourrienne very quickly obtained the post of secretary in the embassy at Stuttgart, so
that his comrade was left to make his struggle alone by pawning what few articles of value
he possessed.

The days and weeks were full of incidents terrible and suggestive in their nature. The Assembly
dismissed the King's body-guard on May twenty-ninth; on June thirteenth, the Girondists were
removed from the ministry; within a few days it was known at court that Prussia had taken the
field as an ally of Austria, and on the seventeenth a conservative, Feuillant cabinet was formed.
Three days later the popular insurrection began, on the twenty-sixth the news of the coalition
was announced, and on the twenty-eighth Lafayette endeavored to stay the tide of furious discontent
which was now rising in the Assembly. But it was as ruthless as that of the ocean, and on July
eleventh the country was declared in danger. There was, however, a temporary check to the rush,
a moment of repose in which the King, on the fourteenth, celebrated among his people the fall
of the Bastille. But an address from the local assembly at Marseilles had arrived, demanding
the dethronement of Louis and the abolition of the monarchy. Such was the impatience of the
great southern city that, without waiting for the logical effect of their declaration, its
inhabitants determined to make a demonstration in Paris. On the thirtieth a deputation five
hundred strong arrived before the capital. On August third, they entered the city singing the
immortal song which bears their name, but which was written at Strasburg by an officer of engineers,
Rouget de Lisle. The southern fire of the newcomers kindled again the flame of Parisian sedition,
and the radicals fanned it. At last, on August tenth, the conflagration burst forth in an uprising
such as had not yet been seen of all that was outcast and lawless in the great town; with them
consorted the discontented and the envious, the giddy and the frivolous, the curious and the
fickle, all the unstable elements of society. This time the King was unnerved; in despair he
fled for asylum to the chamber of the Assembly. That body, unsympathetic for him, but sensitive
to the ragings of the mob without, found the fugitive unworthy of his office. Before night
the kingship was abolished, and the royal family were imprisoned in the Temple.

There is no proof that the young Corsican was at this time other than an interested spectator.
In a hurried letter written to Joseph on May twenty-ninth he notes the extreme confusion of
affairs, remarks that Pozzo di Borgo is on good terms with the minister of war, and recommends
his brother to keep on good terms with Paoli. There is a characteristic little paragraph on
the uniform of the national guard. Though he makes no reference to the purpose of his journey,
it is clear that he is calm, assured that in the wholesale flight of officers a man like himself
is assured of restoration to rank and duty. Two others dated June fourteenth and eighteenth
respectively are scarcely more valuable. He gives a crude and superficial account of French
affairs internal and external, of no value as history. He had made unsuccessful efforts to
revive the plea for their mother's mulberry subsidies, had dined with Mme. Permon, had visited
their sister Marianna at St. Cyr, where she had been called Elisa to distinguish her from another
Marianna. He speculates on the chance of her marrying without a dot. In quiet times, the wards
of St. Cyr received, on leaving, a dowry of three thousand livres, with three hundred more
for an outfit; but as matters then were, the establishment was breaking up and there were no
funds for that purpose. Like the rest, the Corsican girl was soon to be stripped of her pretty
uniform, the neat silk gown, the black gloves, and the dainty bronze slippers which Mme. de
Maintenon had prescribed for the noble damsels at that royal school. In another letter written
four days later there is a graphic account of the threatening demonstrations made by the rabble
and a vivid description which indicates Napoleon's being present when the mob recoiled at the
very door of the Tuileries before the calm and dignified courage of the King. There is even
a story, told as of the time, by Bourrienne, a very doubtful authority, but probably invented
later, of Buonaparte's openly expressing contempt for riots. "How could the King let the rascals
in! He should have shot down a few hundred, and the rest would have run." This statement, like
others made by Bourrienne, is to be received with the utmost caution.

In a letter written about the beginning of July, probably to Lucien or possibly to Joseph,
and evidently intended to be read in the Jacobin Club of Ajaccio, there are clear indications
of its writer's temper. He speaks with judicious calmness of the project for educational reform;
of Lafayette's appearance before the Assembly, which had pronounced the country in danger and
was now sitting in permanence, as perhaps necessary to prevent its taking an extreme and dangerous
course; of the French as no longer deserving the pains men took for them, since they were a
people old and without continuity or coherence;[27] of their leaders as poor creatures engaged
on low plots; and of the damper which such a spectacle puts on ambition. Clearly the lesson
of moderation which he inculcates is for the first time sincerely given. The preacher, according
to his own judgment for the time being, is no Frenchman, no demagogue, nothing but a simple
Corsican anxious to live far from the madness of mobs and the emptiness of so-called glory.

              [Footnote 27: The rare and curious pamphlet entitled
              "Manuscrit de l'Île d'Elbe," attributed to Montholon and
              probably published by Edward O'Meara, contains headings
              for ten chapters which were dictated by Napoleon at Elba
              on February twenty-second, 1815. The argument is: The
              Bourbons ascended the throne, in the person of Henry IV,
              by conquering the so-called Holy League against the
              Protestants, and by the consent of the people; a third
              dynasty thus followed the second; then came the
              republic, and its succession was legitimated by victory,
              by the will of the people, and by the recognition of all
              the powers of Europe. The republic made a new France by
              emancipating the Gauls from the rule of the Franks. The
              people had raised their leader to the imperial throne in
              order to consolidate their new interests: this was the
              fourth dynasty, etc., etc. The contemplated book was to
              work out in detail this very conception of a nation as
              passing through successive phases: at the close of each
              it is worn out, but a new rule regenerates it, throwing
              off the incrustations and giving room to the life
              within. It is interesting to note the genesis of
              Napoleon's ideas and the pertinacity with which he held
              them.]

It has been asserted that on the dreadful day of August tenth Buonaparte's assumed philosophy
was laid aside, and that he was a mob leader at the barricades. His own account of the matter
as given at St. Helena does not bear this out. "I felt," said he, "as if I should have defended
the King if called to do so. I was opposed to those who would found the republic by means of
the populace. Besides, I saw civilians attacking men in uniforms; that gave me a shock." He
said further in his reminiscences that he viewed the entire scene from the windows of a furniture
shop kept by Fauvelet de Bourrienne, brother of his old school friend. The impression left
after reading his narrative of the frightful carnage before the Tuileries, of the indecencies
committed by frenzied women at the close of the fight, of the mad excitement in the neighboring
cafés, and of his own calmness throughout, is that he was in no way connected either with the
actors or their deeds, except to shout, "Hurrah for the nation!" when summoned to do so by
a gang of ruffians who were parading the streets under the banner of a gory head elevated on
a pike.[28] The truth of his statements cannot be established by any collateral evidence.

              [Footnote 28: Las Cases: Mémorial de Sainte Hélène, V,
              170.]

It is not likely that an ardent radical leader like Buonaparte, well known and influential
in the Rhone valley, had remained a stranger to the Marseilles deputation. If the Duchesse
d'Abrantès be worthy of any credence, he was very influential, and displayed great activity
with the authorities during the seventh and eighth, running hither, thither, everywhere, to
secure redress for an illegal domiciliary visit which her mother, Mme. Permon, had received
on the seventh. But her testimony is of very little value, such is her anxiety to establish
an early intimacy with the great man of her time. Joseph, in his memoirs,[29] declares that
his brother was present at the conflict of August tenth, and that Napoleon wrote him at the
time, "If Louis XVI had appeared on horseback, he would have conquered." "After the victory
of the Marseillais," continues the passage quoted from the letter, "I saw a man about to kill
a soldier of the guard. I said to him, 'Southron, let us spare the unfortunate!' 'Art thou
from the South?' 'Yes.' 'Well, then, we will spare him.'" Moreover, it is a fact that Santerre,
the notorious leader of the mob on that day, was three years later, on the thirteenth of Vendémiaire,
most useful to Buonaparte; that though degraded from the office of general to which he was
appointed in the revolutionary army, he was in 1800 restored to his rank by the First Consul.
All this is consistent with Napoleon's assertion, but it proves nothing conclusively; and there
is certainly ground for suspicion when we reflect that these events were ultimately decisive
of Buonaparte's fortunes.

              [Footnote 29: Mémoires du roi Joseph, I, 47.]

The Feuillant ministry fell with the King, and an executive council composed of radicals took
its place. For one single day Paris reeled like a drunkard, but on the next the shops were
open again. On the following Sunday the opera was packed at a benefit performance for the widows
and orphans of those who had fallen in victory. A few days later Lafayette, as commander of
the armies in the North, issued a pronunciamento against the popular excesses. He even arrested
the commissioners of the Assembly who were sent to supplant him and take the ultimate direction
of the campaign. But he quickly found that his old prestige was gone; he had not kept pace
with the mad rush of popular opinion; neither in person nor as the sometime commander of the
National Guard had he any longer the slightest influence. Impeached and declared an outlaw,
he, like the King, lost his balance, and fled for refuge into the possessions of Liège. The
Austrians violated the sanctuary of neutral territory, and captured him, exactly as Napoleon
at a later day violated the neutrality of Baden in the case of the Duc d'Enghien. On August
twenty-third the strong place of Longwy was delivered into the hands of the Prussians, the
capitulation being due, as was claimed, to treachery among the French officers.

CHAPTER XIV.

Buonaparte the French Jacobin.

     Reinstatement -- Further Solicitation -- Promotion --
     Napoleon and Elisa -- Occupations in Paris -- Return to
     Ajaccio -- Disorders in Corsica -- Buonaparte a French
     Jacobin -- Expedition against Sardinia -- Course of French
     Affairs -- Paoli's Changed Attitude -- Estrangement of
     Buonaparte and Paoli -- Mischances in the Preparations
     against Sardinia -- Failure of the French Detachment --
     Buonaparte and the Fiasco of the Corsican Detachment -- His
     Commission Lapses -- Further Developments in France --
     Results of French Victory -- England's Policy -- Paoli in
     Danger -- Denounced and Summoned to Paris.

[Sidenote: 1792-93.]

The committee to which Buonaparte's request for reinstatement was referred made a report on
June twenty-first, 1792, exonerating him from blame. The reasons given were avowedly based
on the representations of the suppliant himself: first, that Duteil, the inspector, had given
him permission to sail for Corsica in time to avoid the equinox, a distorted truth; and, second,
that the Corsican authorities had certified to his civism, his good conduct, and his constant
presence at home during his irregular absence from the army, a truthful statement, but incomplete,
since no mention was made of the disgraceful Easter riots at Ajaccio and of Buonaparte's share
in them. The attitude of the government is clearly expressed in a despatch of July eighth from
the minister of war, Lajard, to Maillard, commander of the Ajaccio garrison. The misdeeds of
Quenza and Buonaparte were of a civil and not a military nature, cognizable therefore under
the new legislation only by ordinary courts, not by military tribunals. The uprisings, however,
had been duly described to the commissioners by Peraldi: they state as their opinion that the
deputy was ill-informed and that his judgment should not stand in the way of justice to M.
de Buonaparte. On July tenth the minister of war adopted the committee's report, and this fact
was announced in a letter addressed by him to Captain Buonaparte!

The situation is clearly depicted in a letter of August seventh from Napoleon to Joseph. Current
events were so momentous as to overshadow personal considerations. Besides, there had been
no military misdemeanor at Ajaccio and his reinstatement was sure. As things were, he would
probably establish himself in France, Corsican as his inclinations were. Joseph must get himself
made a deputy for Corsica to the Assembly, otherwise his rôle would be unimportant. He had
been studying astronomy, a superb science, and with his knowledge of mathematics easy of acquisition.
His book--the history, no doubt--was copied and ready, but this was no time for publication;
besides, he no longer had the "petty ambition of an author." His family desired he should go
to his regiment (as likewise did the military authorities at Paris), and thither he would go.

A formal report in his favor was drawn up on August twentieth. On the thirtieth he was completely
reinstated, or rather his record was entirely sponged out and consigned, as was hoped, to oblivion;
for his captain's commission was dated back to February sixth, 1792, the day on which his promotion
would have occurred in due course if he had been present in full standing with his regiment.
His arrears for that rank were to be paid in full. Such success was intoxicating. Monge, the
great mathematician, had been his master at the military school in Paris, and was now minister
of the navy. True to his nature, with the carelessness of an adventurer and the effrontery
of a gambler, the newly fledged captain promptly put in an application for a position as lieutenant-colonel
of artillery in the sea service. The authorities must have thought the petition a joke, for
the paper was pigeonholed, and has been found marked S. R., that is, sans réponse--without
reply. Probably it was written in earnest, the motive being possibly an invincible distaste
for the regiment in which he had been disgraced, which was still in command of a colonel who
was not disposed to leniency.

An easy excuse for shirking duty and returning to the old habits of a Corsican agitator was
at hand. The events of August tenth settled the fate of all monarchical institutions, even
those which were partly charitable. Among other royal foundations suppressed by the Assembly
on August eighteenth was that of St. Cyr, formally styled the Establishment of St. Louis. The
date fixed for closing was just subsequent to Buonaparte's promotion, and the pupils were then
to be dismissed. Each beneficiary was to receive a mileage of one livre for every league she
had to traverse. Three hundred and fifty-two was the sum due to Elisa. Some one must escort
an unprotected girl on the long journey; no one was so suitable as her elder brother and natural
protector. Accordingly, on September first, the brother and sister appeared before the proper
authorities to apply for the traveling allowance of the latter. Whatever other accomplishments
Mlle. de Buonaparte had learned at the school of St. Louis, she was still as deficient in writing
and spelling as her brother. The formal requisitions written by both are still extant; they
would infuriate any conscientious teacher in a primary school. Nor did they suffice: the school
authorities demanded an order from both the city and department officials. It was by the kind
intervention of the mayor that the red tape was cut; the money was paid on the next day, and
that night the brother and the sister lodged in the Holland Patriots' Hotel in Paris, where
they appear to have remained for a week.

This is the statement of an early biographer, and appears to be borne out by an autograph letter
of Napoleon's, recently found, in which he says he left Paris on a date which, although the
figure is blurred, seems to be the ninth.[30] Some days would be necessary for the new captain
to procure a further leave of absence. Judging from subsequent events, it is possible that
he was also seeking further acquaintance and favor with the influential Jacobins of Paris.
During the days from the second to the seventh more than a thousand of the royalists confined
in the prisons of Paris were massacred. It seems incredible that a man of Napoleon's temperament
should have seen and known nothing of the riotous events connected with such bloodshed. Yet
nowhere does he hint that he had any personal knowledge. It is possible that he left earlier
than is generally supposed, but it is not likely in view of the known dates of his journey.
In any case he did not seriously compromise himself, doing at the most nothing further than
to make plans for the future. It may have become clear to him, for it was true and he behaved
accordingly, that France was not yet ready for him, nor he for France.

              [Footnote 30: Napoléon inconnu, II, 408.]

It is, moreover, a strong indication of Buonaparte's interest in the French Revolution being
purely tentative that as soon as the desired leave was granted, probably in the second week
of September, without waiting for the all-important fifteen hundred livres of arrears, now
due him, but not paid until a month later, he and his sister set out for home. They traveled
by diligence to Lyons, and thence by the Rhone to Marseilles. During the few hours' halt of
the boat at Valence, Napoleon's friends, among them some of his creditors, who apparently bore
him no grudge, waited on him with kindly manifestations of interest. His former landlady, Mme.
Bou, although her bill had been but insignificantly diminished by payments on account, brought
as her gift a basket of the fruit in which the neighborhood abounds at that season. The regiment
was no longer there, the greater portion, with the colonel, being now on the northeastern frontier
under Dumouriez, facing the victorious legions of Prussia and Austria. On the fourteenth the
travelers were at Marseilles; in that friendly democratic city they were nearly mobbed as aristocrats
because Elisa wore feathers in her hat. It is said that Napoleon flung the offending object
into the crowd with a scornful "No more aristocrats than you," and so turned their howls into
laughing approval. It was about a month before the arrears of pay reached Marseilles, two thousand
nine hundred and fifty livres in all, a handsome sum of money and doubly welcome at such a
crisis. It was probably October tenth when they sailed for Corsica, and on the seventeenth
Buonaparte was once more in his home, no longer so confident, perhaps, of a career among his
own people, but determined to make another effort. It was his fourth return. Lucien and Fesch
were leaders in the radical club; Joseph was at his old post, his ambition to represent Ajaccio
at Paris was again thwarted, the successful candidate having been Multedo, a family friend;
Louis, as usual, was disengaged and idle; Mme. Buonaparte and the younger children were well;
he himself was of course triumphantly vindicated by his promotion. The ready money from the
fortune of the old archdeacon was long since exhausted, to be sure; but the excellent vineyards,
mulberry plantations, and gardens of the family properties were still productive, and Napoleon's
private purse had been replenished by the quartermaster of his regiment.

The course of affairs in France had materially changed the aspect of Corsican politics; the
situation was, if anything, more favorable for a revolutionary venture than ever before. Salicetti
had returned to Corsica after the adjournment of the Constituent Assembly with many new ideas
which he had gathered from observing the conduct of the Paris commune, and these he unstintingly
disseminated among his sympathizers. They proved to be apt scholars, and quickly caught the
tricks of demagogism, bribery, corruption, and malversation of the public funds. He had returned
to France before Buonaparte arrived, as a member of the newly elected legislature, but his
evil influence survived his departure, and his lieutenants were ubiquitous and active. Paoli
had been rendered helpless, and was sunk in despair. He was now commander-in-chief of the regular
troops in garrison, but it was a position to which he had been appointed against his will,
for it weakened his influence with his own party. Pozzo di Borgo, his stanch supporter and
Buonaparte's enemy, was attorney-general in Salicetti's stead. As Paoli was at the same time
general of the volunteer guard, the entire power of the islands, military and civil, was in
his hands: but the responsibility for good order was likewise his, and the people were, if
anything, more unruly than ever; for it was to their minds illogical that their idol should
exercise such supreme power, not as a Corsican, but in the name of France. The composition
of the two chief parties had therefore changed materially, and although their respective views
were modified to a certain extent, they were more embittered than ever against each other.

Buonaparte could not be neutral; his nature and his surroundings forbade it. His first step
was to resume his command in the volunteers, and, under pretext of inspecting their posts,
to make a journey through the island; his second was to go through the form of seeking a reconciliation
with Paoli. Corsican historians, in their eagerness to appropriate the greatness of both Paoli
and Napoleon, habitually misrepresent their relations. At this time each was playing for his
own hand, the elder exclusively for Corsica's advantage as he saw it; the younger was more
ambitious personally, although he was beginning to see that in the course of the Revolution
Corsica would secure more complete autonomy as a French department than in any other way. It
is not at all clear that as late as this time Paoli was eager for Napoleon's assistance nor
the latter for Paoli's support. The complete breach came soon and lasted until, when their
views no longer clashed, they both spoke generously one of the other. In the clubs, among his
friends and subordinates at the various military stations, Napoleon's talk was loud and imperious,
his manner haughty and assuming. A letter written by him at the time to Costa, then lieutenant
in the militia and a thorough Corsican, explains that the writer is detained from going to
Bonifacio by an order from the general (Paoli) to come to Corte; he will, however, hasten to
his post at the head of the volunteers on the very next day, and there will be an end to all
disorder and irregularity. "Greet our friends, and assure them of my desire to further their
interests." The epistle was written in Italian, but that fact signifies little in comparison
with the new tone used in speaking about France: "The enemy has abandoned Verdun and Longwy,
and recrossed the river to return home, but our people are not asleep." Lucien added a postscript
explaining that he had sent a pamphlet to his dear Costa, as to a friend, not as to a co-worker,
for that he had been unwilling to be. Both the brothers seem already to have considered the
possibility of abandoning Corsica.

No sooner had war been declared against Austria in April, than it became evident that the powers
whose territories bordered on those of France had previously reached an agreement, and were
about to form a coalition in order to make the war general. The Austrian Netherlands, what
we now know as Belgium, were already saturated with the revolutionary spirit. It was not probable
that much annoyance would come from that quarter. Spain, Prussia, and Holland would, however,
surely join the alliance; and if the Italian principalities, with the kingdom of Sardinia,
should take the same course, France would be in dire straits. It was therefore suggested in
the Assembly that a blow should be struck at the house of Savoy, in order to awe both that
and the other courts of Italy into inactivity. The idea of an attack on Sardinia for this purpose
originated in Corsica, but among the friends of Salicetti, and it was he who urged the scheme
successfully. The sister island was represented as eager to free itself from the control of
Savoy. In order to secure Paoli's influence not only in his own island, but in Sardinia, where
he was likewise well known and admired, the ministers forced upon him the unwelcome appointment
of lieutenant-general in the regular army, and his friend Peraldi was sent to prepare a fleet
at Toulon.

The events of August tenth put an end for the time being to constitutional government in France.
The commissioners of the Paris sections supplanted the municipal council, and Danton, climbing
to power as the representative "plain man," became momentarily the presiding genius of the
new Jacobin commune, which was soon able to usurp the supreme control of France. A call was
issued for the election by manhood suffrage of a National Convention, and a committee of surveillance
was appointed with the bloodthirsty Marat as its motive power. At the instigation of this committee
large numbers of royalists, constitutionalists, and others suspected of holding kindred doctrines,
were thrown into prison. The Assembly went through the form of confirming the new despotism,
including both the commune of the sections and a Jacobin ministry in which Danton held the
portfolio of justice. It then dispersed. On September second began that general clearance of
the jails under mock forms of justice to which reference has been made. It was really a massacre,
and lasted, as has been said, for five days. Versailles, Lyons, Meaux, Rheims, and Orléans
were similarly "purified." Amid these scenes the immaculate Robespierre, whose hands were not
soiled with the blood spilled on August tenth, appeared as the calm statesman controlling the
wild vagaries of the rough and impulsive but unselfish and uncalculating Danton. These two,
with Philip Égalité and Collot d'Herbois, were among those elected to represent Paris in the
Convention. That body met on September twenty-first. As they sat in the amphitheater of the
Assembly, the Girondists, or moderate republicans, who were in a strong majority, were on the
right of the president's chair. High up on the extreme left were the Jacobins, or "Mountain";
between were placed those timid trimmers who were called the "Plain" and the "Marsh" according
to the degree of their democratic sentiments. The members were, of course, without exception
republicans. The first act of the Convention was to abolish the monarchy, and to declare France
a republic. The next was to establish an executive council. It was decreed that September twenty-second,
1792, was the "first day of the year I of the republic." Under the leadership of Brissot and
Roland, the Girondists asserted their power as the majority, endeavoring to restore order in
Paris, and to bridle the extreme Jacobins. But notwithstanding its right views and its numbers,
the Girondist party displayed no sagacity; before the year I was three months old, the unscrupulous
Jacobins, with the aid of the Paris commune, had reasserted their supremacy.

The declaration of the republic only hastened the execution of Salicetti's plan regarding Sardinia,
and the Convention was more energetic than the Legislative had been. The fleet was made ready,
troops from France were to be embarked at Villefranche, and a force composed in part of regulars,
in part of militia, was to be equipped in Corsica and to sail thence to join the main expedition.
Buonaparte's old battalion was among those that were selected from the Corsican volunteers.
From the outset Paoli had been unfriendly to the scheme; its supporters, whose zeal far outran
their means, were not his friends. Nevertheless, he was in supreme command of both regulars
and volunteers, and the government having authorized the expedition, the necessary orders had
to be issued through him as the only channel of authority. Buonaparte's reappearance among
his men had been of course irregular. Being now a captain of artillery in the Fourth Regiment,
on active service and in the receipt of full pay, he could no longer legally be a lieutenant-colonel
of volunteers, a position which had also been made one of emolument. But he was not a man to
stand on slight formalities, and had evidently determined to seize both horns of the dilemma.

Paoli, as a French official, of course could not listen for an instant to such a preposterous
notion. But as a patriot anxious to keep all the influence he could, and as a family friend
of the Buonapartes, he was unwilling to order the young captain back to his post in France,
as he might well have done. The interview between the two men at Corte was, therefore, indecisive.
The older was benignant but firm in refusing his formal consent; the younger pretended to be
indignant that he could not secure his rights: it is said that he even threatened to denounce
in Paris the anti-nationalist attitude of his former hero. So it happened that Buonaparte returned
to Ajaccio with a permissive authorization, and, welcomed by his men, assumed a command to
which he could have no claim, while Paoli shut his eyes to an act of flagrant insubordination.
Paoli saw that Buonaparte was irrevocably committed to revolutionary France; Buonaparte was
convinced, or pretended to be, that Paoli was again leaning toward an English protectorate.
French imperialist writers hint without the slightest basis of proof that both Paoli and Pozzo
di Borgo were in the pay of England. Many have believed, in the same gratuitous manner, that
there was a plot among members of the French party to give Buonaparte the chance, by means
of the Sardinian expedition, to seize the chief command at least of the Corsican troops, and
thus eventually to supplant Paoli. If this conjecture be true, Paoli either knew nothing of
the conspiracy, or behaved as he did because his own plans were not yet ripe. The drama of
his own personal perplexities, cross-purposes, and ever false positions, was rapidly moving
to an end; the logic of events was too strong for the upright but perplexed old patriot, and
a scene or two would soon complete the final act of his public career.

The plan for invading Sardinia was over-complex and too nicely adjusted. One portion of the
fleet was to skirt the Italian shores, make demonstrations in the various harbors, and demand
in one of them--that of Naples--public reparation for an insult already offered to the new
French flag, which displayed the three colors of liberty. The other portion was first to embark
the Corsican guards and French troops at Ajaccio, then to unite with the former in the Bay
of Palma, whence both were to proceed against Cagliari. But the French soldiers to be taken
from the Army of the Var under General Anselme were in fact non-existent; the only military
force to be found was a portion of the Marseilles national guard--mere boys, unequipped, untrained,
and inexperienced. Winds and waves, too, were adverse: two of the vessels were wrecked, and
one was disabled. The rest were badly demoralized, and their crews became unruly. On the arrival
of the ships at Ajaccio, a party of roistering sailors went ashore, affiliated immediately
with the French soldiers of the garrison, and in the rough horse-play of such occasions picked
a quarrel with certain of the Corsican militia, killing two of their number. The character
of the islanders showed itself at once in further violence and the fiercest threats. The tumult
was finally allayed, but it was perfectly clear that for Corsicans and Marseillais to be embarked
on the same vessel was to invite mutiny, riot, and bloodshed.

Buonaparte thought he saw his way to an independent command, and at once proposed what was
manifestly the only alternative--a separate Corsican expedition. The French fleet accordingly
embarked the garrison troops, and proceeded on its way; the Corsicans remained ashore, and
Buonaparte with them. Scenes like that at Ajaccio were repeated in the harbor of St. Florent,
and the attack on Cagliari by the French failed, partly, as might be supposed, from the poor
equipment of the fleet and the wretched quality of the men, partly because the two flotillas,
or what was left of them, failed to effect a junction at the appointed place and time. When
they did unite, it was February fourteenth, 1793; the men were ill fed and mutinous; the troops
that landed to storm the place fell into a panic, and would actually have surrendered if the
officers had not quickly reëmbarked them. The costly enterprise met with but a single success:
Naples was cowed, and the court promised neutrality, with reparation for the insult to the
tricolor.

The Corsican expedition was quite as ill-starred as the French. Paoli accepted Buonaparte's
plan, but appointed his nephew, Colonna-Cesari, to lead, with instructions to see that, if
possible, "this unfortunate expedition shall end in smoke."[31] The disappointed but stubborn
young aspirant remained in his subordinate place as an officer of the second battalion of the
Corsican national guard. It was a month before the volunteers could be equipped and a French
corvette with her attendant feluccas could be made ready to sail. On February twentieth, 1793,
the vessels were finally armed, manned, and provisioned. The destination of the flotilla was
the Magdalena Islands, one of which is Caprera, since renowned as the home of Garibaldi. The
troops embarked and put to sea. Almost at once the wind fell; there was a two days' calm, and
the ships reached their destination with diminished supplies and dispirited crews. The first
attack, made on St. Stephen, was successful. Buonaparte and his guns were then landed on that
spot to bombard, across a narrow strait, Magdalena, the chief town on the main island. The
enemy's fire was soon silenced, and nothing remained but for the corvette to work slowly round
the intervening island of Caprera, and take possession. The vessel had suffered slightly from
the enemy's fire, two of her crew having been killed. On the pretense that a mutiny was imminent,
Colonna-Cesari declared that coöperation between the sloop and the shore batteries was no longer
possible; the artillery and their commander were reëmbarked only with the utmost difficulty;
the unlucky expedition returned on February twenty-seventh to Bonifacio.

              [Footnote 31: Reported by Arrighi and Renucci and given
              in Napoléon inconnu, II, 418.]

Both Buonaparte and Quenza were enraged with Paoli's nephew, declaring him to have acted traitorously.
It is significant of the utter anarchy then prevailing that nobody was punished for the disgraceful
fiasco. Buonaparte, on landing, at once bade farewell to his volunteers. He reported to the
war ministry in Paris--and a copy of the memorial was sent to Paoli as responsible for his
nephew--that the Corsican volunteers had been destitute of food, clothing, and munitions; but
that nevertheless their gallantry had overcome all difficulties, and that in the hour of victory
they were abased by the shameful conduct of their comrades. He must have expressed himself
freely, for he was mobbed by the sailors in the square of Bonifacio. The men from Bocagnano,
partly from the Buonaparte estates at that place, rescued him from serious danger.[32] When
he entered Ajaccio, on March third, he found that he was no longer, even by assumption, a lieutenant-colonel;
for during his short absence the whole Corsican guard had been disbanded to make way for two
battalions of light infantry whose officers were to be appointed by the directory of the island.

              [Footnote 32: For the original of this protest see
              Napoléon inconnu, II, 439.]

Strange news now greeted his ears. Much of what had occurred since his departure from Paris
he already knew. France having destroyed root and branch the tyranny of feudal privileges,
the whole social edifice was slack in every joint, and there was no strong hand to tighten
the bolts; for the King, in dallying with foreign courts, had virtually deserted his people.
The monarchy had therefore fallen, but not until its friends had resorted to the expedient
of a foreign war as a prop to its fortunes. The early victories won by Austria and Prussia
had stung the nation to madness. Robespierre and Danton having become dictators, all moderate
policy was eclipsed. The executive council of the Convention, determined to appease the nation,
gathered their strength in one vigorous effort, and put three great armies in the field. On
November sixth, 1792, to the amazement of the world, Dumouriez won the battle of Jemmapes,
thus conquering the Austrian Netherlands as far north as Liège.

The Scheldt, which had been closed since 1648 through the influence of England and Holland,
was reopened, trade resumed its natural channel, and, in the exuberance of popular joy, measures
were taken for the immediate establishment of a Belgian republic. The other two armies, under
Custine and Kellermann, were less successful. The former, having occupied Frankfort, was driven
back to the Rhine; the latter defeated the Allies at Valmy, but failed in the task of coming
to Custine's support at the proper moment for combined action. Meantime the agitation in Paris
had taken the form of personal animosity to "Louis Capet," as the leaders of the disordered
populace called the King. In November he was summoned to the bar of the Convention and questioned.
When it came to the consideration of an actual trial, the Girondists, willing to save the prisoner's
life, claimed that the Convention had no jurisdiction, and must appeal to the sovereign people
for authorization. The Jacobins insisted on the sovereign power of the Convention, Robespierre
protesting in the name of the people against an appeal to the people. Supported by the noisy
outcries not only of the Parisian populace, but of their followers elsewhere, the radicals
prevailed. By a vote of three hundred and sixty-six to three hundred and fifty-five the verdict
of death was pronounced on January seventeenth, 1793, and four days later the sentence was
executed. This act was a defiance to all monarchs, or, in other words, to all Europe.

The younger Pitt was at this juncture prime minister of England. Like the majority of his countrymen,
he had mildly approved the course of the French Revolution down to 1789; with them, in the
same way, his opinions had since that time undergone a change. By the aid of Burke's biased
but masterful eloquence the English people were gradually convinced that Jacobinism, violence,
and crime were the essence of the movement, constitutional reform but a specious pretext. Between
1789 and 1792 there was a rising tide of adverse public sentiment so swift and strong that
Pitt was unable to follow it. By the execution of Louis the English moderates were silenced;
the news was received with a cry of horror, and the nation demanded war. Were kings' heads
to fall, and republican ideas, supported by republican armies, to spread like a conflagration?
The still monarchical liberals of England could give no answer to the case of Louis or to the
instance of Belgium, and were stunned. The English anti-Jacobins became as fanatical as the
French Jacobins. Pitt could not resist the torrent. Yet in his extreme necessity he saw his
chance for a double stroke: to throw the blame for the war on France, and to consolidate once
more his nearly vanished power in parliament. With masterly adroitness France was tempted into
a declaration of war against England. Enthusiasm raged in Paris like fire among dry stubble.
France, if so it must be, against the world! Liberty and equality her religion! The land a
camp! The entire people an army! Three hundred thousand men to be selected, equipped, and drilled
at once!

Nothing indicates that Buonaparte was in any way moved by the terrible massacres of September,
or even by the news of the King's unmerited fate. But the declaration of war was a novelty
which must have deeply interested him; for what was Paoli now to do? From gratitude to England
he had repeatedly and earnestly declared that he could never take up arms against her. He was
already a lieutenant-general in the service of her enemy, his division was assigned to the
feeble and disorganized Army of Italy, which was nominally being equipped for active service,
and the leadership, so ran the news received at Ajaccio, had been conferred on the Corsican
director. The fact was that the radicals of the Convention had long been aware of the old patriot's
devotion to constitutional monarchy, and now saw their way to be rid of so dangerous a foe.
Three successive commanders of that army had already found disgrace in their attempts with
inadequate means to dislodge the Sardinian troops from the mountain passes of the Maritime
Alps. Mindful, therefore, of their fate, and of his obligations to England, Paoli firmly refused
the proffered honor. Suspicion as to the existence of an English party in the island had early
been awakened among the members of the Mountain; for half the Corsican delegation to the Convention
had opposed the sentence passed on the King, and Salicetti was the only member who voted in
the affirmative. When the ill-starred Sardinian expedition reached Toulon, the blame of failure
was laid by the Jacobins on Paoli's shoulders.

Salicetti, who was now a real power among the leaders at Paris, felt that he must hasten to
his department in order to forestall events, if possible, and keep together the remnants of
sympathy with France; he was appointed one of a commission to enforce in the island the decrees
of the Convention. The commission was well received and the feeling against France was being
rapidly allayed when, most unexpectedly, fatal news arrived from Paris. In the preceding November
Lucien Buonaparte had made the acquaintance in Ajaccio of Huguet de Sêmonville, who was on
his way to Constantinople as a special envoy of the provisory council then in charge of the
Paris administration. In all probability he was sent to test Paoli's attitude. Versatile and
insinuating, he displayed great activity among the islanders. On one occasion he addressed
the radical club of Ajaccio--but though eloquent, he was no linguist, and his French rhetoric
would have fallen flat but for the fervid zeal of Lucien, who at the close stood in his place
and rendered the ambassador's speech in Italian to an enthralled audience. This event among
others showed the younger brother's mettle; the intimacy thus inaugurated ripened quickly and
endured for long. The ambassador was recalled to the mainland on February second, 1793, and
took his new-found friend with him as secretary or useful man. Both were firm Jacobins, and
the master having failed in making any impression on Paoli during his Corsican sojourn, the
man, as the facts stand, took a mean revenge by denouncing the lieutenant-general as a traitor
before a political meeting in Toulon. Lucien's friends have thought the words unstudied and
unpremeditated, uttered in the heat of unripe oratory. This may be, but he expressed no repentance
and the responsibility rests upon his memory. As a result of the denunciation an address calumniating
the Corsican leader in the most excited terms was sent by the Toulon Jacobins to the deputy
of the department in Paris. Of all this Napoleon knew nothing: he and Lucien were slightly
alienated because the latter thought his brother but a lukewarm revolutionary. The news of
the defection of Dumouriez had just arrived at the capital, public opinion was inflamed, and
on April second Paoli, who seemed likely to be a second Dumouriez, was summoned to appear before
the Convention. For a moment he became again the most popular man in Corsica. He had always
retained many warm personal friends even among the radicals; the royalists were now forever
alienated from a government which had killed their king; the church could no longer expect
protection when impious men were in power. These three elements united immediately with the
Paolists to protest against the arbitrary act of the Convention. Even in that land of confusion
there was a degree of chaos hitherto unequaled.

CHAPTER XV.

A Jacobin Hegira.

     The Waning of Corsican Patriotism -- Rise of French
     Radicalism -- Alliance with Salicetti -- Another Scheme for
     Leadership -- Failure to Seize the Citadel of Ajaccio --
     Second Plan -- Paoli's Attitude Toward the Convention --
     Buonaparte Finally Discredited in Corsica -- Paoli Turns to
     England -- Plans of the Buonaparte Family -- Their Arrival
     in Toulon -- Napoleon's Character -- His Corsican Career --
     Lessons of His Failures -- His Ability, Situation, and
     Experience.

[Sidenote: 1793.]

Buonoparte was for an instant among the most zealous of Paoli's supporters, and, taking up
his ever-ready pen, he wrote two impassioned papers whose respective tenors it is not easy
to reconcile: one an appeal to the Convention in Paoli's behalf, the other a demand addressed
to the municipality of Ajaccio that the people should renew their oath of allegiance to France.
The explanation is somewhat recondite, perhaps, but not discreditable. Salicetti, as chairman
of a committee of the convention on Corsican affairs, had conferred with Paoli on April thirteenth.
The result was so satisfactory that on the sixteenth the latter was urged to attend a second
meeting at Bastia in the interest of Corsican reconciliation and internal peace. Meantime Lucien's
performance at Marseilles had fired the train which led to the Convention's action against
Paoli, and on the seventeenth the order for his arrest reached Salicetti, who was of course
charged with its execution. For this he was not prepared, nor was Buonaparte. The essential
of Corsican annexation to France was order. The Corsican folk flocked to protect Paoli in Corte,
and the local government declared for him. There was inchoate rebellion and within a few days
the districts of Calvi and Bastia were squarely arrayed with Salicetti against Bonifacio and
Ajaccio, which supported Paoli and Pozzo di Borgo. The Buonapartes were convinced that the
decree of the Convention was precipitate, and pleaded for its recall. At the same time they
saw no hope for peace in Corsica, except through incorporation with France. But compromise
proved impossible. There was a truce when Paoli on April twenty-sixth wrote to the Convention
regretting that he could not obey their summons on account of infirmities, and declaring his
loyalty to France. In consequence the Convention withdrew its decree and sent a new commission
of which Salicetti was not a member. This was in May, on the eve of the Girondin overthrow.
The measures of reconciliation proved unavailing, because the Jacobins of Marseilles, learning
that Paoli was Girondist in sentiment, stopped the commission, and forbade their proceeding
to Corsica.

Meantime Captain Buonaparte's French regiment had already been some five months in active service.
If his passion had been only for military glory, that was to be found nowhere so certainly
as in its ranks, where he should have been. But his passion for political renown was clearly
far stronger. Where could it be so easily gratified as in Corsica under the present conditions?
The personality of the young adventurer had for a long time been curiously double: but while
he had successfully retained the position of a French officer in France, his identity as a
Corsican patriot had been nearly obliterated in Corsica by his constant quarrels and repeated
failures. Having become a French radical, he had been forced into a certain antagonism to Paoli
and had thereby jeopardized both his fortunes and his career as far as they were dependent
on Corsican support. But with Paoli under the ban of the Convention, and suspected of connivance
with English schemes, there might be a revulsion of feeling and a chance to make French influence
paramount once more in the island under the leadership of the Buonapartes and their friends.
For the moment Napoleon preserved the outward semblance of the Corsican patriot, but he seems
to have been weary at heart of the thankless rôle and entirely ready to exchange it for another.
Whatever may have been his plan or the principles of his conduct, it appears as if the decisive
step now to be taken had no relation to either plan or principles, but that it was forced upon
him by a chance development of events which he could not have foreseen, and which he was utterly
unable to control.

It is unknown whether Salicetti or he made the first advances in coming to an understanding
for mutual support, or when that understanding was reached, but it existed as early as January,
1793, a fact conclusively shown by a letter of the former dated early in that month. It was
April fifth when Salicetti reached Corsica; the news of Paoli's denunciation by the Convention
arrived, as has been said, on the seventeenth. Seeing how nicely adjusted the scales of local
politics were, the deputy was eager to secure favor from Paris, and wrote on the sixteenth
an account of how warmly his commission had been received. Next day the blow of Paoli's condemnation
fell, and it became plain that compromise was no longer possible. When even the Buonapartes
were supporting Paoli, the reconciliation of the island with France was clearly impracticable.
Salicetti did not hesitate, but as between Paoli and Corsica with no career on the one side,
and the possibilities of a great career under France on the other, quickly chose the latter.
The same considerations weighed with Buonaparte; he followed his patron, and as a reward was
appointed by the French commission inspector-general of artillery for Corsica.

Salicetti had granted what Paoli would not: Buonaparte was free to strike his blow for Corsican
leadership. With swift and decisive measures the last scene in his Corsican adventures was
arranged. Several great guns which had been saved from a war-ship wrecked in the harbor were
lying on the shore unmounted. The inspector-general hypocritically declared that they were
a temptation to insurgents and a menace to the public peace; they should be stored in the citadel.
His plan was to seize the moment when the heavy pieces were passing the drawbridge, and at
the head of his followers to take possession of the stronghold he had so long coveted, and
so often failed to capture. If he could hold it for the Convention, a career in Corsica would
be at last assured.

But again he was doomed to disappointment. The former garrison had been composed of French
soldiers. On the failure of the Sardinian expedition most of these had been landed at Toulon,
where they still were. The men in the citadel of Ajaccio were therefore in the main islanders,
although some French infantry and the French gunners were still there; the new commander was
a Paolist who refused to be hoodwinked, and would not act without an authorization from his
general-in-chief. The value of the seizure depended on its promptness. In order to secure a
sufficient number of faithful followers, Buonaparte started on foot for Bastia to consult the
commission. Learning that he was already a suspect at Corte and in danger of arrest, he turned
on his steps only to be confronted at Bocognano by a band of Peraldi's followers. Two shepherds
from his own estate found a place of concealment for him in a house belonging to their friends,
and he passed a day in hiding, escaping after nightfall to Ucciani, whence he returned to Ajaccio
in safety.[33] Thwarted in one notion, Buonaparte then proposed to the followers he already
had two alternatives: to erect a barricade behind which the guns could be mounted and trained
on the citadel, or, easier still, to carry one of the pieces to some spot before the main entrance
and then batter in the gate. Neither scheme was considered feasible, and it was determined
to secure by bribes, if possible, the coöperation of a portion of the garrison. The attempt
failed through the integrity of a single man, and is interesting only as having been Napoleon's
first lesson in an art which was thenceforward an unfailing resource. Rumors of these proceedings
soon reached the friends of Paoli, and Buonaparte was summoned to report immediately at Corte.
Such was the intensity of popular bitterness against him in Ajaccio for his desertion of Paoli
that after a series of narrow escapes from arrest he was compelled to flee in disguise and
by water to Bastia, which he reached on May tenth, 1793. Thwarted in their efforts to seize
Napoleon, the hostile party vented its rage on the rest of the family, hunting the mother and
children from their town house, which was pillaged and burned, first to Milleli, then through
jungle and over hilltops to the lonely tower of Capitello near the sea.

              [Footnote 33: Both these men were generously remembered
              in the secret codicils of Napoleon's will.]

A desire for revenge on his Corsican persecutors would now give an additional stimulus to Buonaparte,
and still another device to secure the passionately desired citadel of Ajaccio was proposed
by him to the commissioners of the Convention, and adopted by them. The remnants of a Swiss
regiment stationed near by were to be marched into the city, as if for embarkment; several
French war vessels from the harbor of St. Florent, including one frigate, with troops, munitions,
and artillery on board, were to appear unexpectedly before the city, land their men and guns,
and then, with the help of the Switzers and such of the citizens as espoused the French cause,
were to overawe the town and seize the citadel. Corsican affairs had now reached a crisis,
for this was a virtual declaration of war. Paoli so understood it, and measures of mutual defiance
were at once taken by both sides. The French commissioners formally deposed the officials who
sympathized with Paoli; they, in turn, took steps to increase the garrison of Ajaccio, and
to strengthen the popular sentiment in their favor.

On receipt of the news that he had been summoned to Paris and that hostile commissioners had
been sent to take his place, Paoli had immediately forwarded, by the hands of two friendly
representatives, the temperate letter in which he had declared his loyalty to France. In it
he had offered to resign and leave Corsica. His messengers were seized and temporarily detained,
but in the end they reached Paris, and were kindly received. On May twenty-ninth they appeared
on the floor of the Convention, and won their cause. On June fifth the former decree was revoked,
and two days later a new and friendly commission of two members started for Corsica. But at
Marseilles they fell into the hands of the Jacobin mob, and were arrested. Ignorant of these
favorable events, and the untoward circumstances by which their effect was thwarted, the disheartened
statesman had written and forwarded on May fourteenth a second letter, of the same tenor as
the first. This measure likewise had failed of effect, for the messenger had been stopped at
Bastia, now the focus of Salicetti's influence, and the letter had never reached its destination.

It was probably in this interval that Paoli finally adopted, as a last desperate resort, the
hitherto hazy idea of putting the island under English protection, in order to maintain himself
in the mission to which he felt that Providence had called him. The actual departure of Napoleon's
expedition from St. Florent gave the final impulse. That event so inflamed the passions of
the conservative party in Ajaccio that the Buonaparte family could no longer think of returning
within a reasonable time to their home. Some desperate resolution must be taken, though it
should involve leaving their small estates to be ravaged, their slender resources to be destroyed,
and abandoning their partizans to proscription and imprisonment. They finally found a temporary
asylum with a relative in Calvi. The attacking flotilla had been detained nearly a week by
a storm, and reached Ajaccio on May twenty-ninth, in the very height of these turmoils. It
was too late for any possibility of success. The few French troops on shore were cowed, and
dared not show themselves when a party landed from the ships. On the contrary, Napoleon and
his volunteers were received with a fire of musketry, and, after spending two anxious days
in an outlying tower which they had seized and held, were glad to reëmbark and sail away. Their
leader, after still another narrow escape from seizure, rejoined his family at Calvi. The Jacobin
commission held a meeting, and determined to send Salicetti to justify their course at Paris.
He carried with him a wordy paper written by Buonaparte in his worst style and spelling, setting
forth the military and political situation in Corsica, and containing a bitter tirade against
Paoli, which remains to lend some color to the charge that the writer had been, since his leader's
return from exile, a spy and an informer, influenced by no high principle of patriotism, but
only by a base ambition to supplant the aged president, and then to adopt whichever plan would
best further his own interest: ready either to establish a virtual autonomy in his fatherland,
or to deliver it entirely into the hands of France.[34]

              [Footnote 34: For this paper, see Napoléon inconnu, II,
              462. Jung: Bonaparte et son temps, II, 266 and 498.
              There appear to have been an official portion intended
              to be filed, and a free, carelessly written running
              commentary on men and things. The passage quoted is
              taken from the latter.]

In this painful document Buonaparte sets forth in fiery phrase the early enthusiasm of republicans
for the return of Paoli, and their disillusionment when he surrounded himself with venal men
like Pozzo di Borgo, with relatives like his nephew Leonetti, with his vile creatures in general.
The misfortunes of the Sardinian expedition, the disgraceful disorders of the island, the failure
of the commissioners to secure Ajaccio, are all alike attributed to Paoli. "Can perfidy like
this invade the human heart?... What fatal ambition overmasters a graybeard of sixty-eight?...
On his face are goodness and gentleness, in his heart hate and vengeance; he has an oily sensibility
in his eyes, and gall in his soul, but neither character nor strength." These were the sentiments
proper to a radical of the times, and they found acceptance among the leaders of that class
in Paris. More moderate men did what they could to avert the impending breach, but in vain.
Corsica was far, communication slow, and the misunderstanding which occurred was consequently
unavoidable. It was not until July first that Paoli received news of the pacificatory decrees
passed by the Convention more than a month before, and then it was too late; groping in the
dark, and unable to get news, he had formed his judgment from what was going on in Corsica,
and had therefore committed himself to a change of policy. To him, as to most thinking men,
the entire structure of France, social, financial, and political, seemed rotten. Civil war
had broken out in Vendée; in Brittany the wildest excesses passed unpunished; the great cities
of Marseilles, Toulon, and Lyons were in a state of anarchy; the revolutionary tribunal had
been established in Paris; the Committee of Public Safety had usurped the supreme power; the
France to which he had intrusted the fortunes of Corsica was no more. Already an agent was
in communication with the English diplomats in Italy. On July tenth Salicetti arrived in Paris;
on the seventeenth Paoli was declared a traitor and an outlaw, and his friends were indicted
for trial. But the English fleet was already in the Mediterranean, and although the British
protectorate over Corsica was not established until the following year, in the interval the
French and their few remaining sympathizers on the island were able at best to hold only the
three towns of Bastia, St. Florent, and Calvi.

After the last fiasco before the citadel of Ajaccio, the situation of the Buonapartes was momentarily
desperate. Lucien says in his memoirs that shortly before his brother had spoken longingly
of India, of the English empire as destined to spread with every year, and of the career which
its expansion opened to good officers of artillery, who were scarce among the British--scarce
enough everywhere, he thought. "If I ever choose that career," said he, "I hope you will hear
of me. In a few years I shall return thence a rich nabob, and bring fine dowries for our three
sisters." But the scheme was deferred and then abandoned. Salicetti had arranged for his own
return to Paris, where he would be safe. Napoleon felt that flight was the only resort for
him and his. Accordingly, on June eleventh, three days earlier than his patron, he and Joseph,
accompanied by Fesch, embarked with their mother and the rest of the family to join Lucien,
who had remained at Toulon, where they arrived on the thirteenth. The Jacobins of that city
had received Lucien, as a sympathetic Corsican, with honor. Doubtless his family, homeless
and destitute for their devotion to the republic, would find encouragement and help until some
favorable turn in affairs should restore their country to France, and reinstate them not only
in their old possessions, but in such new dignities as would fitly reward their long and painful
devotion. Such, at least, appears to have been Napoleon's general idea. He was provided with
a legal certificate that his family was one of importance and the richest in the department.
The Convention had promised compensation to those who had suffered losses.

As had been hoped, on their arrival the Buonapartes were treated with every mark of distinction,
and ample provision was made for their comfort. By act of the Convention, women and old men
in such circumstances received seventy-five livres a month, infants forty-five livres. Lads
received simply a present of twenty-five livres. With the preliminary payment of one hundred
and fifty livres, which they promptly received, the Buonapartes were better off than they had
been at home. Lucien had appropriated Napoleon's certificate of birth in order to appear older
than he was, and, having now developed into a fluent demagogue, was soon earning a small salary
in the commissary department of the army. Fesch also found a comfortable berth in the same
department. Joseph calmly displayed Napoleon's commission in the National Guard as his own,
and received a higher place with a better salary. The sovereignty of the Convention was everywhere
acknowledged, their revolutionary courts were established far and wide, and their legations,
clothed with dictatorial power, were acknowledged in every camp of the land as supreme, superior
even to the commanders-in-chief. It was not exactly a time for further military irregularities,
and Napoleon, armed with a certificate from Salicetti that his presence in Corsica for the
past six months had been necessary, betook himself to the army headquarters at Nice, where
a detachment of his regiment was now stationed. When he arrived, no awkward questions were
asked by the authorities. The town had but recently been captured, men were needed to hold
it, and the Corsican refugee was promptly appointed captain of the shore battery. To casual
observers he appeared perfectly content in this subordinate position. He still cherished the
hope, it seems, that he might find some opportunity to lead a successful expedition against
the little citadel of Ajaccio. Such a scheme, at all events, occupied him intermittently for
nearly two years, or until it was banished forever by visions of a European control far transcending
the limits of his island home.

Not that the outcast Buonaparte was any longer exclusively a Corsican. It is impossible to
conceive of a lot more pitiful or a fate more obdurate than his so far had been. There was
little hereditary morality in his nature, and none had been inculcated by training; he had
nothing of what is called vital piety, nor even sincere superstition. A butt and an outcast
at a French school under the old régime, he had imbibed a bitter hatred for the land indelibly
associated with such haughty privileges for the rich and such contemptuous disdain for the
poor. He had not even the consolation of having received an education. His nature revolted
at the religious formalism of priestcraft; his mind turned in disgust from the scholastic husks
of its superficial knowledge. What he had learned came from inborn capacity, from desultory
reading, and from the untutored imaginings of his garden at Brienne, his cave at Ajaccio, or
his barrack chambers. What more plausible than that he should first turn to the land of his
birth with some hope of happiness, usefulness, or even glory! What more mortifying than the
revelation that in manhood he was too French for Corsica, as in boyhood he had been too Corsican
for France!

The story of his sojourns and adventures in Corsica has no fascination; it is neither heroic
nor satanic, but belongs to the dull and mediocre realism which makes up so much of commonplace
life. It is difficult to find even a thread of continuity in it: there may be one as to purpose;
there is none as to either conduct or theory. There is the passionate admiration of a southern
nature for a hero as represented by the ideal Paoli. There is the equally southern quality
of quick but transient hatred. The love of dramatic effect is shown at every turn, in the perfervid
style of his writings, in the mock dignity of an edict issued from the grotto at Milleli, in
the empty honors of a lieutenant-colonel without a real command, in the paltry style of an
artillery inspector with no artillery but a few dismantled guns.

But the most prominent characteristic of the young man was his shiftiness, in both the good
and bad senses of the word. He would perish with mortification rather than fail in devising
some expedient to meet every emergency; he felt no hesitation in changing his point of view
as experience destroyed an ideal or an unforeseen chance was to be seized and improved. Moreover,
repeated failure did not dishearten him. Detesting garrison life, he neglected its duties,
and endured punishment, but he secured regular promotion; defeated again and again before the
citadel of Ajaccio, each time he returned undismayed to make a fresh trial under new auspices
or in a new way.

He was no spendthrift, but he had no scruples about money. He was proud in the headship of
his family, and reckless as to how he should support them, or should secure their promotion.
Solitary in his boyhood, he had become in his youth a companion and leader; but his true friendships
were not with his social equals, whom he despised, but with the lowly, whom he understood.
Finally, here was a citizen of the world, a man without a country; his birthright was gone,
for Corsica repelled him; France he hated, for she had never adopted him. He was almost without
a profession, for he had neglected that of a soldier, and had failed both as an author and
as a politician. He was apparently, too, without a single guiding principle; the world had
been a harsh stepmother, at whose knee he had neither learned the truth nor experienced kindness.
He appears consistent in nothing but in making the best of events as they occurred. So far
he was a man neither much better nor much worse than the world into which he was born. He was
quite as unscrupulous as those about him, but he was far greater than they in perspicacity,
adroitness, adaptability, and persistence. During the period before his expulsion from Corsica
these qualities of leadership were scarcely recognizable, but they existed. As yet, to all
outward appearance, the little captain of artillery was the same slim, ill-proportioned, and
rather insignificant youth; but at twenty-three he had had the experience of a much greater
age. Conscious of his powers, he had dreamed many day-dreams, and had acquired a habit of boastful
conversation in the family circle; but, fully cognizant of the dangers incident to his place,
and the unsettled conditions about him, he was cautious and reserved in the outside world.

CHAPTER XVI.

"The Supper of Beaucaire".

     Revolutionary Madness -- Uprising of the Girondists --
     Convention Forces Before Avignon -- Bonaparte's First
     Success in Arms -- Its Effect upon His Career -- His
     Political Pamphlet -- The Genius it Displays -- Accepted and
     Published by Authority -- Seizure of Toulon by the Allies.

[Sidenote: 1793.]

It was a tempestuous time in Provence when on June thirteenth the Buonapartes arrived at Toulon.
Their movements during the first few months cannot be determined; we only know that, after
a very short residence there, the family fled to Marseilles.[35] Much, too, is obscure in regard
even to Napoleon, soldier as he was. It seems as if this period of their history had been wilfully
confused to conceal how intimate were the connections of the entire family with the Jacobins.
But the obscurity may also be due to the character of the times. Fleeing before the storms
of Corsican revolution, they were caught in the whirlwind of French anarchy. The Girondists,
after involving the country in a desperate foreign warfare, had shown themselves incompetent
to carry it on. In Paris, therefore, they had to give way before the Jacobins, who, by the
exercise of a reckless despotism, were able to display an unparalleled energy in its prosecution.
Against their tyranny the moderate republicans and the royalists outside of Paris now made
common cause, and civil war broke out in many places, including Vendée, the Rhone valley, and
the southeast of France. Montesquieu declares that honor is the distinguishing characteristic
of aristocracy: the emigrant aristocrats had been the first in France to throw honor and patriotism
to the winds; many of their class who remained went further, displaying in Vendée and elsewhere
a satanic vindictiveness. This shameful policy colored the entire civil war, and the bitterness
in attack and retaliation that was shown in Marseilles, Lyons, Toulon, and elsewhere would
have disgraced savages in a prehistoric age.

              [Footnote 35: The memoirs of Joseph and Lucien,
              supported by Coston and the anonymous local historian of
              Marseilles, all unite in declaring that the Buonaparte
              family landed there; on the other hand, Louis, in the
              Documents historiques sur la Hollande, I, 34, asserts
              categorically in detail that they took up their abode in
              La Valette, a suburb of Toulon, where they had landed.]

The westward slopes of the Alps were occupied by a French army under the command of Kellermann,
designated by the name of its situation; farther south and east lay the Army of Italy, under
Brunet. Both these armies were expected to draw their supplies from the fertile country behind
them, and to coöperate against the troops of Savoy and Austria, which had occupied the passes
of lower Piedmont, and blocked the way into Lombardy. By this time the law for compulsory enlistment
had been enacted, but the general excitement and topsy-turvy management incident to such rapid
changes in government and society, having caused the failure of the Sardinian expedition, had
also prevented recruiting or equipment in either of these two divisions of the army. The outbreak
of open hostilities in all the lands immediately to the westward momentarily paralyzed their
operations; and when, shortly afterward, the Girondists overpowered the Jacobins in Marseilles,
the defection of that city made it difficult for the so-called regulars, the soldiers of the
Convention, even to obtain subsistence and hold the territory they already occupied.

The next move of the insurgent Girondists of Marseilles was in the direction of Paris, and
by the first week of July they had reached Avignon on their way to join forces with their equally
successful friends at Lyons. With characteristic zeal, the Convention had created an army to
meet them. The new force was put under the command of Carteaux, a civilian, but a man of energy.
According to directions received from Paris, he quickly advanced to cut the enemy in two by
occupying the strategic point of Valence. This move was successfully made, Lyons was left to
fight its own battle, and by the middle of July the general of the Convention was encamped
before the walls of Avignon.

Napoleon Buonaparte had hastened to Nice, where five companies of his regiment were stationed,
and rejoining the French army, never faltered again in his allegiance to the tricolor. Jean
Duteil, brother of the young man's former patron, was in the Savoy capital, high in command.
He promptly set the young artillerist at the work of completing the shore batteries. On July
third and eighth, respectively, the new captain made written reports to the secretary for war
at Paris, and to the director of artillery in the arsenal of Toulon. Both these papers are
succinct and well written. Almost immediately Buonaparte was intrusted with a mission, probably
confidential, since its exact nature is unknown, and set out for Avignon. He reached his destination
almost in the moment when Carteaux began the investment of the city. It was about July sixteenth
when he entered the republican camp, having arrived by devious ways, and after narrow escapes
from the enemy's hands. This time he was absent from his post on duty. The works and guns at
Nice being inadequate and almost worthless, he was probably sent to secure supplies from the
stores of Avignon when it should be conquered. Such were the straits of the needy republican
general that he immediately appointed his visitor to the command of a strong body of flying
artillery. In the first attack on the town Carteaux received a check. But the insurgents were
raw volunteers and seem to have felt more and more dismayed by the menacing attitude of the
surrounding population: on the twenty-fifth, in the very hour of victory, they began their
retreat.[36] The road to Marseilles was thus clear, and the commander unwisely opened his lines
to occupy the evacuated towns on his front. Carteaux entered Avignon on the twenty-sixth; on
the twenty-seventh he collected his force and departed, reaching Tarascon on the twenty-eighth,
and on the twenty-ninth Beaucaire. Buonaparte, whose battery had done excellent service, advanced
for some distance with the main army, but was ordered back to protect the rear by reorganizing
and reconstructing the artillery park which had been dismantled in the assault on Avignon.

              [Footnote 36: These are the most probable reasons for
              the retreat. Several local chroniclers, Soullier, Audri,
              and Joudou, writing all three about 1844, declare each
              and all that Buonaparte with his battery followed the
              right bank of the Rhone as far as the Rocher de Justice
              where he mounted his guns and opened fire on the walls
              of the city. His fire was so accurate that he destroyed
              one cannon and killed several gunners. The besieged
              garrison of federalists were thrown into panic and
              decamped. Neither the contemporary authorities nor
              Napoleon himself ever mentioned any such remarkable
              circumstances. In fact, a passage of the "Souper de
              Beaucaire" attributes the retreat to the inability of
              any except veteran troops to withstand a siege. Finally,
              Buonaparte would surely have been promoted for such an
              exploit. Dommartin, a comrade, was thus rewarded for a
              much smaller service.]

This first successful feat of arms made a profound impression on Buonaparte's mind, and led
to the decision which settled his career. His spirits were still low, for he was suffering
from a return of his old malarial trouble. Moreover, his family seems already to have been
driven from Toulon by the uprising of the hostile party: in any case they were now dependent
on charity; the Corsican revolt against the Convention was virtually successful, and it was
said that in the island the name of Buonaparte was considered as little less execrable than
that of Buttafuoco. What must he do to get a decisive share in the surging, rolling tumult
about him? The visionary boy was transformed into the practical man. Frenchmen were fighting
and winning glory everywhere, and among the men who were reaping laurels were some whom he
had known and even despised at Brienne--Sergeant Pichegru, for instance. Ideas which he had
momentarily entertained,--enlistment in the Russian army,[37] service with England, a career
in the Indies, the return of the nabob,--all such visions were set aside forever, and an application
was sent for a transfer from the Army of Italy to that of the Rhine. The suppression of the
southern revolt would soon be accomplished, and inactivity ensue; but on the frontier of the
north there was a warfare worthy of his powers, in which, if he could only attract the attention
of the authorities, long service, rapid advancement, and lasting glory might all be secured.

              [Footnote 37: The Archive Russe for 1866 states that in
              1788 Napoleon Buonaparte applied for an engagement to
              Zaborowski, Potemkin's lieutenant, who was then with a
              Russian fleet in the Mediterranean. The statement may be
              true, and probably is, but there is no corroborative
              evidence to sustain it.]

But what must be the first step to secure notoriety here and now? How could that end be gained?
The old instinct of authorship returned irresistibly, and in the long intervals of easy duty
at Avignon, where, as is most probable, he remained to complete the task assigned to him, Buonaparte
wrote the "Supper of Beaucaire," his first literary work of real ability. As if by magic his
style is utterly changed, being now concise, correct, and lucid. The reader would be tempted
to think it had enjoyed a thorough revision from some capable hand. But this is improbable
when we note that it is the permanent style of the future. Moreover, the opinions expressed
are quite as thoroughly transformed, and display not only a clear political judgment, but an
almost startling military insight. The setting of this notable repast is possibly, though by
no means certainly, based on an actual experience, and is as follows: Five wayfarers--a native
of Nîmes, a manufacturer from Montpellier, two merchants of Marseilles, and a soldier from
Avignon--find themselves accidentally thrown together as table companions at an inn of Beaucaire,
a little city round about which the civil war is raging. The conversation at supper turns on
the events occurring in the neighborhood. The soldier explains the circumstances connected
with the recent capture of Avignon, attributing the flight of the insurgents to the inability
of any except veteran troops to endure the uncertainties of a siege. One of the travelers from
Marseilles thinks the success but temporary, and recapitulates the resources of the moderates.
The soldier retorts in a long refutation of that opinion. As a politician he shows how the
insurgents have placed themselves in a false position by adopting extreme measures and alienating
republican sympathy, being cautious and diplomatic in not censuring their persons nor their
principles; on the other side there is a marked effort to emphasize the professional attitude;
as a military man he explains the strategic weakness of their position, and the futility of
their operations, uttering many sententious phrases: "Self-conceit is the worst adviser"; "Good
four-and eight-pound cannon are as effective for field work as pieces of larger caliber, and
are in many respects preferable to them"; "It is an axiom of military science that the army
which remains behind its intrenchments is beaten: experience and theory agree on this point."

The conclusion of the conversation is a triumphant demonstration that the cause of the insurgents
is already lost, an argument convicting them of really desiring not moderation, but a counter-revolution
in their own interest, and of displaying a willingness to imitate the Vendeans, and call in
foreign aid if necessary. In one remarkable passage the soldier grants that the Girondists
may have been outlawed, imprisoned, and calumniated by the Mountain in its own selfish interest,
but adds that the former "were lost without a civil war by means of which they could lay down
the law to their enemies. It was for them your war was really useful. Had they merited their
early reputation, they would have thrown down their arms before the constitution and sacrificed
their own interests to the public welfare. It is easier to cite Decius than to imitate him.
To-day they have shown themselves guilty of the worst possible crimes; have, by their behavior,
justified their proscription. The blood they have caused to flow has effaced the true services
they had rendered." The Montpellier manufacturer is of opinion that, whether this be true or
no, the Convention now represents the nation, and to refuse obedience to it is rebellion and
counter-revolution. History knows no plainer statement than this of the "de facto, de jure"
principle, the conviction that "might makes right."

At last, then, the leader had shown himself in seizing the salient elements of a complicated
situation, and the man of affairs had found a style in which to express his clear-cut ideas.
When the tide turns it rises without interruption. Buonaparte's pamphlet was scarcely written
before its value was discerned; for at that moment arrived one of those legations now representing
the sovereignty of the Convention in every field of operations. This one was a most influential
committee of three--Escudier, Ricord, and the younger brother of Robespierre. Accompanying
them was a commission charged to renew the commissary stores in Corsica for the few troops
still holding out in that island. Salicetti was at its head; the other member was Gasparin.
Buonaparte, we may infer, found easy access to the favor of his compatriot Salicetti, and "The
Supper of Beaucaire" was heard by the plenipotentiaries with attention. Its merit was immediately
recognized, as is said, both by Gasparin and by the younger Robespierre; in a few days the
pamphlet was published at the expense of the state.[38] Of Buonaparte's life between July twenty-ninth
and September twelfth, 1793, there are the most conflicting accounts. Some say he was at Marseilles,
others deny it. His brother Joseph thought he was occupied in collecting munitions and supplies
for the Army of Italy. His earliest biographer declares that he traveled by way of Lyons and
Auxonne to Paris, returning by the same route to Avignon, and thence journeying to Ollioules
near Toulon. From the army headquarters before that city Salicetti wrote on September twenty-sixth
that while Buonaparte was passing on his way to rejoin the Army of Italy, the authorities in
charge of the siege changed his destination and put him in command of the heavy artillery to
replace Dommartin, incapacitated for service by a wound. It has been hinted by both the suspicious
and the credulous writers on the period that the young man was employed on some secret mission.
This might be expected from those who attribute demonic qualities to the child of destiny from
earliest infancy, but there is no slightest evidence to sustain the claim. Quite possibly the
lad relapsed into the queer restless ways of earlier life. It is evident he was thwarted in
his hope of transfer to the Army of the Rhine. Unwilling as he was to serve in Italy, he finally
turned his lagging footsteps thither. Perhaps, as high authorities declare, it was at Marseilles
that his compatriot Cervoni persuaded him to go as far at least as Toulon, though Salicetti
and Buonaparte himself declared later that they met and arranged the matter at Nice.

              [Footnote 38: The very first impression appears to have
              been a reprint from the Courier d'Avignon: it was a
              cheap pamphlet of sixteen pages in the same type and on
              the paper as that used by the journal. The second
              impression was in twenty pages, printed by the public
              printer as a tract for the times, to be distributed
              throughout the near and remote neighborhood.]

In this interval, while Buonaparte remained, according to the best authority, within reach
of Avignon, securing artillery supplies and writing a political pamphlet in support of the
Jacobins, Carteaux had, on August twenty-fifth, 1793, taken Marseilles. The capture was celebrated
by one of the bloodiest orgies of that horrible year. The Girondists of Toulon saw in the fate
of those at Marseilles the lot apportioned to themselves. If the high contracting powers now
banded against France had shown a sincere desire to quell Jacobin bestiality, they could on
the first formation of the coalition easily have seized Paris. Instead, Austria and Prussia
had shown the most selfish apathy in that respect, bargaining with each other and with Russia
for their respective shares of Poland, the booty they were about to seize. The intensity of
the Jacobin movement did not rouse them until the majority of the French people, vaguely grasping
the elements of permanent value in the Revolution, and stung by foreign interference, rallied
around the only standard which was firmly upheld,--that of the Convention,--and enabled that
body within an incredibly short space of time to put forth tremendous energy. Then England,
terrified into panic, drove Pitt to take effective measures, and displayed her resources in
raising subsidies for her Continental allies, in goading the German powers to activity, in
scouring every sea with her fleets. One of these was cruising off the French coast in the Mediterranean,
and it was easy for the Girondists of Toulon to induce its commander to seize not only their
splendid arsenals, but the fleet in their harbor as well--the only effective one, in fact,
which at that time the French possessed. Without delay or hesitation, Hood, the English admiral,
grasped the easy prize, and before long war-ships of the Spaniards, Neapolitans, and Sardinians
were gathered to share in the defense of the town against the Convention forces. Soon the Girondist
fugitives from Marseilles arrived, and were received with kindness. The place was provisioned,
the gates were shut, and every preparation for desperate resistance was completed. The fate
of the republic was at stake. The crisis was acute. No wonder that in view of his wonderful
career, Napoleon long after, and his friends in accord, declared that in the hour appeared
the man. There, said the inspired memorialist of St. Helena, history found him, never to leave
him; there began his immortality. Though this language is truer ideally than in sober reality,
yet the Emperor had a certain justification for his claim.

CHAPTER XVII.

Toulon. III, Toulon. The Mémoires of Barras are
              utterly worthless, the references in Las Cases, Marmont,
              and elsewhere have value, but must be controlled. The
              archives of the war department have been thoroughly
              examined by several investigators, the author among the
              number. The results have been printed in many volumes to
              which the above-mentioned authors refer, and many of the
              original papers are printed in whole or in part by
              them.]

[Sidenote: 1793.]

Coupled as it was with other discouraging circumstances, the "treason of Toulon" struck a staggering
blow at the Convention. The siege of Lyons was still in progress; the Piedmontese were entering
Savoy, or the department of Mont Blanc, as it had been designated after its recent capture
by France; the great city of Bordeaux was ominously silent and inactive; the royalists of Vendée
were temporarily victorious; there was unrest in Normandy, and further violence in Brittany;
the towns of Mainz, Valenciennes, and Condé had been evacuated, and Dunkirk was besieged by
the Duke of York. The loss of Toulon would put a climax to such disasters, destroy the credit
of the republic abroad and at home, perhaps bring back the Bourbons. Carnot had in the meantime
come to the assistance of the Committee of Safety. Great as a military organizer and influential
as a politician, he had already awakened the whole land to a still higher fervor, and had consolidated
public sentiment in favor of his plans. In Dubois de Crancé he had an able lieutenant. Fourteen
armies were soon to move and fight, directed by a single mind; discipline was about to be effectively
strengthened because it was to be the discipline of the people by itself; the envoys of the
Convention were to go to and fro, successfully laboring for common action and common enthusiasm
in the executive, in both the fighting services, and in the nation. But as yet none of these
miracles had been wrought, and, with Toulon lost, they might be forever impossible.

Such was the setting of the stage in the great national theater of France when Napoleon Buonaparte
entered on the scene. The records of his boyhood and youth by his own hand afford the proof
of what he was at twenty-four. It has required no searching analysis to discern the man, nor
trace the influences of his education. Except for short and unimportant periods, the story
is complete and accurate. It is, moreover, absolutely unsophisticated. What does it show? A
well-born Corsican child, of a family with some fortune, glad to use every resource of a disordered
time for securing education and money, patriotic at heart but willing to profit from France,
or indeed from Russia, England, the Orient; wherever material advantage was to be found. This
boy was both idealist and realist, each in the high degree corresponding to his great abilities.
He shone neither as a scholar nor as an officer, being obdurate to all training,--but by independent
exertions and desultory reading of a high class he formed an ideal of society in which there
prevailed equality of station and purse, purity of life and manners, religion without clericalism,
free speech and honorable administration of just laws. His native land untrammeled by French
control would realize this ideal, he had fondly hoped: but the Revolution emancipated it completely,
entirely; and what occurred? A reversion to every vicious practice of medievalism, he himself
being sucked into the vortex and degraded into a common adventurer. Disenchanted and bitter,
he then turned to France. Abandoning his double rôle, his interest in Corsica was thenceforth
sentimental; his fine faculties when focused on the realities of a great world suddenly exhibit
themselves in keen observation, fair conclusions, a more than academic interest, and a skill
in the conduct of life hitherto obscured by unfavorable conditions. Already he had found play
for all his powers both with gun and pen. He was not only eager but ready to deploy them in
a higher service.

The city of Toulon was now formally and nominally invested--that is, according to the then
accepted general rules for such operations, but with no regard to those peculiarities of its
site which only master minds could mark and use to the best advantage. The large double bay
is protected from the southwest by a broad peninsula joined to the mainland by a very narrow
isthmus, and thus opens southeastward to the Mediterranean. The great fortified city, then
regarded as one of the strongest places in the world, lies far within on the eastern shore
of the inner harbor. Excellent authorities considered it impregnable. It is protected on the
landward side by an amphitheater of high hills, which leave to the right and left a narrow
strip of rolling country between their lower slopes and the sea. On the east Lapoype commanded
the left wing of the besieging revolutionary force. The westward pass is commanded by Ollioules,
which Carteaux had selected for his headquarters. On August twenty-ninth his vanguard seized
the place, but they were almost immediately attacked and driven out by the allied armies, chiefly
English troops brought in from Gibraltar. On September seventh the place was retaken. The two
wings were in touch and to landward the communications of the town were completely cut off.
In the assault only a single French officer fell seriously wounded, but that one was a captain
of artillery. Salicetti and his colleagues had received from the minister of war a charge to
look out for the citizen Buonaparte who wanted service on the Rhine. This and their own attachment
determined them in the pregnant step they now took. The still unattached captain of artillery,
Napoleon Buonaparte, was appointed to the vacant place. As far as history is concerned, this
is a very important fact; it is really a matter of slight import whether Cervoni or Salicetti
gave the impulse. At the same time his mother received a grant of money, and while favors were
going, there were enough needy Buonapartes to receive them. Salicetti and Gasparin, being the
legates of the Convention, were all-powerful. The latter took a great fancy to Salicetti's
friend and there was no opposition when the former exercised his power. Fesch and Lucien were
both provided with places, being made storekeepers in the commissary department. Barras, who
was the recruiting-officer of the Convention at Toulon, claims to have been the first to recognize
Buonaparte's ability. He declares that the young Corsican was daily at his table, and that
it was he himself who irregularly but efficiently secured the appointment of his new friend
to active duty. But he also asserts what we know to be untrue, that Buonaparte was still lieutenant
when they first met, and that he created him captain. It is likely, in view of their subsequent
intimacy at Paris, that they were also intimate at Toulon; the rest of Barras's story is a
fabrication.

But although the investment of Toulon was complete, it was weak. On September eighteenth the
total force of the assailants was ten thousand men. From time to time reinforcements came in
and the various seasoned battalions exhibited on occasion great gallantry and courage. But
the munitions and arms were never sufficient, and under civilian officers both regulars and
recruits were impatient of severe discipline. The artillery in particular was scarcely more
than nominal. There were a few field-pieces, two large and efficient guns only, and two mortars.
By a mistake of the war department the general officer detailed to organize the artillery did
not receive his orders in time and remained on his station in the eastern Pyrenees until after
the place fell. Manifestly some one was required to grasp the situation and supply a crying
deficiency. It was with no trembling hand that Buonaparte laid hold of his task. For an efficient
artillery service artillery officers were essential, and there were almost none. In the ebb
and flow of popular enthusiasm many republicans who had fallen back before the storms of factional
excesses were now willing to come forward, and Napoleon, not publicly committed to the Jacobins,
was able to win many capable assistants from among men of his class. His nervous restlessness
found an outlet in erecting buttresses, mounting guns, and invigorating the whole service until
a zealous activity of the most promising kind was displayed by officers and men alike. By September
twenty-ninth fourteen guns were mounted and four mortars, the essential material was gathered,
and by sheer self-assertion Buonaparte was in complete charge. The only check was in the ignorant
meddling of Carteaux, who, though energetic and zealous, though born and bred in camp, being
the son of a soldier, was, after all, not a soldier, but a very fair artist (painter). For
his battle-pieces and portraits of military celebrities he had received large prices, and was
as vain of his artistic as of his military talent, though both were mediocre. Strange characters
rose to the top in those troublous times: the painter's opponent at Avignon, the leader of
the insurgents, had been a tailor; his successor was one Lapoype, a physician. Buonaparte's
ready pen stood him again in good stead, and he sent up a memorial to the ministry, explaining
the situation, and asking for the appointment of an artillery general with full powers. The
commissioners transmitted the paper to Paris, and appointed the memorialist to the higher rank
of acting commander.

Though the commanding general could not well yield to his subordinate, he did, most ungraciously,
to the Convention legates. Between the seventeenth and twentieth of September effective batteries
under Buonaparte's command forced the enemy's frigates to withdraw from the neighborhood of
La Seyne on the inner bay. The shot were red hot, the fire concentrated, and the guns served
with cool efficiency. Next day the village was occupied and with only four hundred men General
Delaborde marched to seize the Eguillette, the key to the siege, as Buonaparte reiterated and
reiterated. He was ingloriously routed; the British landed reinforcements and erected strong
fortifications over night. They styled the place Fort Mulgrave. It was speedily flanked by
three redoubts. To Buonaparte this contemptuous defiance was insufferable: he spoke and Salicetti
wrote of the siege as destitute both of brains and means. Thereupon the Paris legates began
to represent Carteaux as an incapable and demand his recall. Buonaparte ransacked the surrounding
towns and countryside for cannon and secured a number; he established forges at Ollioules to
keep his apparatus in order, and entirely reorganized his personnel. With fair efficiency and
substantial quantity of guns and shot, he found himself without sufficient powder and wrote
imperiously to his superiors, enforcing successfully his demand. Meantime he made himself conspicuous
by personal daring and exposure. The days and nights were arduous because of the enemy's activity.
In successive sorties on October first, eighth, and fourteenth the British garrison of Fort
Mulgrave gained both ground and prestige by successive victories. It was hard for the French
to repress their impatience, but they were not ready yet for a general move: not a single arm
of the service was sufficiently strong and the army was becoming demoralized by inactivity.
The feud between general and legates grew bitter and the demands of the latter for material
were disregarded alike at Paris and by Doppet, who had just captured Lyons, but would part
with none of his guns or ammunition or men for use at Toulon. Lapoype and Carteaux quarreled
bitterly, and there was such confusion that Buonaparte ended by squarely disobeying his superior
and taking many minor movements into his own hand; he was so cocksure that artillery alone
would end the siege that the general dubbed him Captain Cannon. Finally the wrangling of all
concerned cried to heaven, and on October twenty-third Carteaux was transferred to the Army
of Italy with headquarters at Nice. He left for his new post on November seventh, and five
days later his successor appeared. In the interim the nominal commander was Lapoype, really
Salicetti prompted by Buonaparte.

Thus at length the artist was removed from command, and a physician was appointed in his stead.
The doctor was an ardent patriot who had distinguished himself at the siege of Lyons, which
had fallen on October ninth. But on arriving at Toulon the citizen soldier was awed by the
magnitude of his new work. On November fifteenth the French pickets saw a Spaniard maltreating
a French prisoner on the outworks of Fort Mulgrave. There was an impulsive and spontaneous
rush of the besiegers to avenge the insult. General O'Hara landed from the Victory with reinforcements
for the garrison. Doppet was panic-stricken by the fire and ordered a retreat. Captain Buonaparte
with an oath expressed his displeasure. The soldiers cried in angry spite: "Are we always to
be commanded by painters and doctors?" Indeed, the newcomer had hardly taken command, leaving
matters at loose ends as they were: in a short time he was transferred at his own suggestion
to an easier station in the Pyrenees, it being understood that Dugommier, a professional soldier,
would be finally appointed commander-in-chief, and that Duteil, the brother of Buonaparte's
old friend and commander, was to be made general of artillery. He was a man advanced in years,
unable even to mount a horse: but he was devoted to the young captain, trusted his powers,
and left him in virtual command. Abundant supplies arrived at the same time from Lyons. On
November twentieth the new officers took charge, two days later a general reconnaissance was
made, and within a short time the investment was completed. On the thirtieth there was a formidable
sally from the town directed against Buonaparte's batteries. In the force were two thousand
three hundred and fifty men: about four hundred British, three hundred Sardinians, two hundred
and fifty French, and seven hundred each of Neapolitans and Spanish. They were commanded by
General Dundas. Their earliest movements were successful and the commander-in-chief of the
besieged came out to see the victory. But the tide turned, the French revolutionists rallied,
and the sortie was repulsed. The event was made doubly important by the chance capture of General
O'Hara, the English commandant. Such a capture is rare,--Buonaparte was profoundly impressed
by the fact. He obtained permission to visit the English general in captivity, but was coldly
received. To the question: "What do you require?" came the curt reply: "To be left alone and
owe nothing to pity." This striking though uncourtly reply delighted Buonaparte. The success
was duly reported to Paris. In the "Moniteur" of December seventh the name of Buona Parte is
mentioned for the first time, and as among the most distinguished in the action.

The councils of war before Dugommier's arrival had been numerous and turbulent, although the
solitary plan of operations suggested by the commander and his aides would have been adequate
only for capturing an inland town, and probably not even for that. From the beginning and with
fierce iteration Buonaparte had explained to his colleagues the special features of their task,
but all in vain. He reasoned that Toulon depended for its resisting power on the Allies and
their fleets, and must be reduced from the side next the sea. The English themselves understood
this when they seized and fortified the redoubt of Fort Mulgrave, known also by the French
as Little Gibraltar, on the tongue of land separating, to the westward, the inner from the
outer bay. That post on the promontory styled the Eguillette by the natives must be taken.
From the very moment of his arrival this simple but clever conception had been urged on the
council of war by Buonaparte. But Carteaux could not and would not see its importance: it was
not until a skilled commander took charge that Buonaparte's insight was justified and his plan
adopted. At the same time it was determined that operations should also be directed against
two other strong outposts, one to the north, the other to the northeast, of the town. There
was to be a genuine effort to capture Mt. Faron on the north and a demonstration merely against
the third point. But the concentration of force was to be against the Eguillette.

Finally, on December seventeenth, after careful preparation, a concerted attack was made at
all three points. Officers and men were daring and efficient everywhere. Buonaparte, assuming
responsibility for the batteries, was ubiquitous and reckless. The movement on which he had
set his heart was successful in every portion; the enemy was not only driven within the interior
works, but by the fall of Little Gibraltar his communication with the sea was endangered. The
whole peninsula, the fort itself, the point and the neighboring heights were captured. Victor,
Muiron, Buonaparte, and Dugommier led the storming columns. The Allies were utterly demoralized
by the fierce and bloody struggle. Since, therefore, the supporting fleets could no longer
remain in a situation so precarious, the besieged at once made ready for departure, embarking
with precipitate haste the troops and many of the inhabitants. The Spaniards fired two frigates
loaded with powder and the explosion of the magazines shook the city and its suburbs like an
earthquake. In that moment the young Sidney Smith landed from the British ships and laid the
trains which kindled an awful conflagration. The captured French fleet lying at anchor, the
magazines and shops of the arsenal, all its enclosures burst into flames, and one explosion
followed another in an awe-inspiring volcanic eruption. The besiegers were stupefied as they
gazed, and stopped their ears. In a few hours the city was completely evacuated, and the foreign
war vessels sailed away from the offing. The news of this decisive victory was despatched without
a moment's delay to the Convention. The names of Salicetti, Robespierre, Ricord, Fréron, and
Barras are mentioned in Dugommier's letters as those of men who had won distinction in various
posts; that of Buonaparte does not occur.

There was either jealousy of his merits, which are declared by his enemies to have been unduly
vaunted, or else his share had been more insignificant than is generally supposed. He related
at St. Helena that during the operations before Toulon he had had three horses killed under
him, and showed Las Cases a great scar on his thigh which he said had been received in a bayonet
charge at Toulon. "Men wondered at the fortune which kept me invulnerable; I always concealed
my dangers in mystery." The hypothesis of his insignificance appears unlikely when we examine
the memoirs written by his contemporaries, and consider the precise traditions of a later generation;
it becomes untenable in view of what happened on the next day, when the commissioners nominated
him for the office of general of brigade, a rank which in the exchange of prisoners with the
English was reckoned as equal to that of lieutenant-general. In a report written on the nineteenth
to the minister of war, Duteil speaks in the highest terms of Buonaparte. "A great deal of
science, as much intelligence, and too much bravery; such is a faint sketch of the virtues
of this rare officer. It rests with you, minister, to retain them for the glory of the republic."

On December twenty-fourth the Convention received the news of victory. It was really their
reprieve, for news of disaster would have cut short their career. Jubilant over a prompt success,
their joy was savage and infernal. With the eagerness of vampires they at once sent two commissioners
to wipe the name of Toulon from the map, and its inhabitants from the earth. Fouché, later
chief of police and Duke of Otranto under Napoleon, went down from Lyons to see the sport,
and wrote to his friend the arch-murderer Collot d'Herbois that they were celebrating the victory
in but one way. "This night we send two hundred and thirteen rebels into hell-fire." The fact
is, no one ever knew how many hundreds or thousands of the Toulon Girondists were swept together
and destroyed by the fire of cannon and musketry. Fréron, one of the commissioners, desired
to leave not a single rebel alive. Dugommier would listen to no such proposition for a holocaust.
Marmont declares that Buonaparte and his artillerymen pleaded for mercy, but in vain.

Running like a thread through all these events was a little counterplot. The Corsicans at Toulon
were persons of importance, and had shown their mettle. Salicetti, Buonaparte, Arena, and Cervoni
were now men of mark; the two latter had, like Buonaparte, been promoted, though to much lower
rank. As Salicetti declared in a letter written on December twenty-eighth, they were scheming
to secure vessels and arm them for an expedition to Corsica. But for the time their efforts
came to naught; and thenceforward Salicetti seemed to lose all interest in Corsican affairs,
becoming more and more involved in the ever madder rush of events in France.

This was not strange, for even a common politician could not remain insensible to the course
or the consequences of the malignant anarchy now raging throughout France. The massacres at
Lyons, Marseilles, and Toulon were the reply to the horrors of like or worse nature perpetrated
in Vendée by the royalists. Danton having used the Paris sections to overawe the Girondist
majority of the Convention, Marat gathered his riotous band of sansculottes, and hounded the
discredited remnant of the party to death, flight, or arrest. His bloody career was ended only
by Charlotte Corday's dagger. Passions were thus inflamed until even Danton's conduct appeared
calm, moderate, and inefficient when compared with the reckless bloodthirstiness of Hébert,
now leader of the Exagérés. The latter prevailed, the Vendeans were defeated, and Citizen Carrier
of Nantes in three months took fifteen thousand human lives by his fiendishly ingenious systems
of drowning and shooting. In short, France was chaos, and the Salicettis of the time might
hope for anything, or fear everything, in the throes of her disorder. Not so a man like Buonaparte.
His instinct led him to stand in readiness at the parting of the ways. Others might choose
and press forward; he gave no sign of being moved by current events, but stood with his eye
still fixed, though now in a backward gaze, on Corsica, ready, if interest or self-preservation
required it, for another effort to seize and hold it as his own. It was self-esteem, not Corsican
patriotism, his French interest perhaps, which now prompted him. Determined and revengeful,
he was again, through the confusion of affairs at Paris, to secure means for his enterprise,
and this time on a scale proportionate to the difficulty. The influence of Toulon upon Buonaparte's
fortunes was incalculable. Throughout life he spoke of the town, of the siege and his share
therein, of the subsequent events and of the men whose acquaintance he made there, with lively
and emphatic interest. To all associated with the capture he was in after years generous to
a fault, except a few enemies like Auna whom he treated with harshness. In particular it must
not be forgotten that among many men of minor importance he there began his relations with
some of his greatest generals and marshals: Desaix, Marmont, Junot, Muiron, and Chauvet. The
experience launched him on his grand career; the intimacies he formed proved a strong support
when he forced himself to the front. Moreover, his respect for England was heightened. It was
not in violation of a pledge to hold the place for the Bourbon pretender, but by right of sheer
ability that they took precedence of the Allies in command. They were haughty and dictatorial
because their associates were uncertain and divided. When the Comte de Provence was suggested
as a colleague they refused to admit him because he was detested by the best men of his own
party. In the garrison of nearly fifteen thousand not a third were British. Buonaparte and
others charged them with perfidy in a desire to hold the great fort for themselves, but the
charge was untrue and he did not disdain them, but rather admired and imitated their policy.

CHAPTER XVIII.

A Jacobin General.

     Transformation in Buonaparte's Character -- Confirmed as a
     French General -- Conduct of His Brothers -- Napoleon's
     Caution -- His Report on Marseilles -- The New French Army
     -- Buonaparte the Jacobin Leader -- Hostilities with Austria
     and Sardinia -- Enthusiasm of the French Troops --
     Buonaparte in Society -- His Plan for an Italian Campaign.

[Sidenote: 1793-94.]

Hitherto prudence had not been characteristic of Buonaparte: his escapades and disobedience
had savored rather of recklessness. Like scores of others in his class, he had fully exploited
the looseness of royal and early republican administration; his madcap and hotspur versatility
distinguished him from his comrades not in the kind but in the degree of his bold effrontery.
The whole outlook having changed since his final flight to France, his conduct now began to
reveal a definite plan--to be marked by punctilious obedience, sometimes even by an almost
puerile caution. His family was homeless and penniless; their only hope for a livelihood was
in coöperation with the Jacobins, who appeared to be growing more influential every hour. Through
the powerful friends that Napoleon had made among the representatives of the Convention, men
like the younger Robespierre, Fréron, and Barras, much had already been gained. If his nomination
to the office of general of brigade were confirmed, as it was almost certain to be, the rest
would follow, since, with his innate capacity for adapting himself to circumstances, he had
during the last few weeks successfully cultivated his power of pleasing, captivating the hearts
of Marmont, Junot, and many others.

With such strong chances in his favor, it appeared to Buonaparte that no stumbling-block of
technicality should be thrown in the path of his promotion. Accordingly, in the record of his
life sent up to Paris, he puts his entrance into the service over a year earlier than it actually
occurred, omits as unessential details some of the places in which he had lived and some of
the companies in which he had served, declares that he had commanded a battalion at the capture
of Magdalena, and, finally, denies categorically that he was ever noble. To this paper, which
minimizes nearly to the vanishing-point all mention of Corsica, and emphasizes his services
as a Frenchman by its insidious omissions, the over-driven officials in Paris took no exception;
and on February sixth, 1794, he was confirmed, receiving an assignment for service in the new
and regenerated Army of Italy, which had replaced as if by magic the ragged, shoeless, ill-equipped,
and half-starved remnants of troops in and about Nice that in the previous year had been dignified
by the same title. This gambler had not drawn the first prize in the lottery, but what he had
secured was enough to justify his course, and confirm his confidence in fate. Eight years and
three months nominally in the service, out of which in reality he had been absent four years
and ten months either on furlough or without one, and already a general! Neither blind luck,
nor the revolutionary epoch, nor the superlative ability of the man, but a compound of all
these, had brought this marvel to pass. It did not intoxicate, but still further sobered, the
beneficiary. This effect was partly due to an experience which demonstrated that strong as
are the chains of habit, they are more easily broken than those which his associates forge
about a man.

In the interval between nomination and confirmation the young aspirant, through the fault of
his friends, was involved in a most serious risk. Salicetti, and the Buonaparte brothers, Joseph,
Lucien, and Louis, went wild with exultation over the fall of Toulon, and began by reckless
assumptions and untruthful representations to reap an abundant harvest of spoils. Joseph, by
the use of his brother's Corsican commission, had posed as a lieutenant-colonel; he was now
made a commissary-general of the first class. Louis, without regard to his extreme youth, was
promoted to be adjutant-major of artillery--a dignity which was short-lived, for he was soon
after ordered to the school at Châlons as a cadet, but which served, like the greater success
of Joseph, to tide over a crisis. Lucien retained his post as keeper of the commissary stores
in St. Maximin, where he was the leading Jacobin, styling himself Lucius Brutus, and rejoicing
in the sobriquet of "the little Robespierre."

The positions of Lucien and Louis were fantastic even for revolutionary times. Napoleon was
fully aware of the danger, and was correspondingly circumspect. It was possibly at his own
suggestion that he was appointed, on December twenty-sixth, 1793, inspector of the shore fortifications,
and ordered to proceed immediately on an inspection of the Mediterranean coast as far as Mentone.
The expedition removed him from all temptation to an unfortunate display of exultation or anxiety,
and gave him a new chance to display his powers. He performed his task with the thoroughness
of an expert; but in so doing, his zeal played him a sorry trick, eclipsing the caution of
the revolutionist by the eagerness of the sagacious general. In his report to the minister
of war he comprehensively discussed both the fortification of the coast and the strengthening
of the navy, which were alike indispensable to the wonderful scheme of operations in Italy
which he appears to have been already revolving in his mind. The Army of Italy, and in fact
all southeastern France, depended at the moment for sustenance on the commerce of Genoa, professedly
a neutral state and friendly to the French republic. This essential trade could be protected
only by making interference from the English and the Spaniards impossible, or at least difficult.

Arrived at Marseilles, and with these ideas occupying his whole mind, Buonaparte regarded the
situation as serious. The British and Spanish fleets swept the seas, and were virtually blockading
all the Mediterranean ports of France. At Toulon, as has been told, they actually entered,
and departed only after losing control of the promontory which forms the harbor. There is a
similar conformation of the ground at the entrance to the port of Marseilles, but Buonaparte
found that the fortress which occupied the commanding promontory had been dismantled. With
the instinct of a strategist and with no other thought than that of his duties as inspector,
he sat down, and on January fourth, 1794, wrote a most impolitic recommendation that the fortification
should be restored in such a way as to "command the town." These words almost certainly referred
both to the possible renewal by the conquered French royalists and other malcontents of their
efforts to secure Marseilles, and to a conceivable effort on the part of the Allies to seize
the harbor. Now it happened that the liberals of the town had regarded this very stronghold
as their Bastille, and it had been dismantled by them in emulation of their brethren of Paris.
The language and motive of the report were therefore capable of misinterpretation. A storm
at once arose among the Marseilles Jacobins against both Buonaparte and his superior, General
Lapoype; they were both denounced to the Convention, and in due time, about the end of February,
were both summoned before the bar of that body. In the mean time Buonaparte's nomination as
general of brigade had been confirmed, his commission arriving at Marseilles on February sixteenth.
It availed nothing toward restoring him to popularity; on the contrary, the masses grew more
suspicious and more menacing. He therefore returned to the protection of Salicetti and Robespierre,
then at Toulon, whence by their advice he despatched to Paris by special messenger a poor-spirited
exculpatory letter, admitting that the only use of restoring the fort would be to "command
the town," that is, control it by military power in case of revolution. Having by this language
pusillanimously acknowledged a fault which he had not committed, the writer, by the advice
of Salicetti and Robespierre, refused to obey the formal summons of the Convention when it
came. Those powerful protectors made vigorous representations to their friends in Paris, and
Buonaparte was saved. Both they and he might well rely on the distinguished service rendered
by the culprit at Toulon; his military achievement might well outweigh a slight political delinquency.
On April first, 1794, he assumed the duties of his new command, reporting himself at Nice.
Lapoype went to Paris, appeared at the bar of the Convention, and was triumphantly acquitted.
Naturally, therefore, no indictment could lie against the inferior, and Buonaparte's name was
not even mentioned.

A single circumstance changed the French Revolution from a sectarian dogma into a national
movement. By the exertions and plans of Carnot the effective force of the French army had been
raised in less than two years from one hundred and twelve thousand to the astonishing figure
of over seven hundred and thirty thousand. The discipline was now rigid, and the machine was
perfectly adapted to the workman's hand, although for lack of money the equipment was still
sadly defective. In the Army of Italy were nearly sixty-seven thousand men, a number which
included all the garrisons and reserves of the coast towns and of Corsica. Its organization,
like that of the other portions of the military power, had been simplified, and so strengthened.
There were a commander-in-chief, a chief of staff, three generals of division, of whom Masséna
was one, and thirteen generals of brigade, of whom one, Buonaparte, was the commander and inspector
of artillery. The former was now thirty-four years old. His sire was a wine-dealer of a very
humble sort, probably of Jewish blood, and the boy, Italian in origin and feeling, had almost
no education. Throughout his wonderful career he was coarse, sullen, and greedy; nevertheless,
as a soldier he was an inspired genius, ranked by many as the peer of Napoleon. Having served
France for several years as an Italian mercenary, he resigned in 1789, settled in his native
town of Nice, and married; but the stir of arms was irresistible and three years later he volunteered
under the tricolor. His comrades at once elected him an officer, and in about a year he was
head of a battalion, or colonel in our style. In the reorganization he was promoted to be a
division general because of sheer merit. For sixteen years he had an unbroken record of success
and won from Napoleon the caressing title: "Dear Child of Victory."

The younger Robespierre, with Ricord and Salicetti, were the "representatives of the people."
The first of these was, to outward appearance, the leading spirit of the whole organism, and
to his support Buonaparte was now thoroughly committed. The young artillery commander was considered
by all at Nice to be a pronounced "Montagnard," that is, an extreme Jacobin. Augustin Robespierre
had quickly learned to see and hear with the eyes and ears of his Corsican friend, whose fidelity
seemed assured by hatred of Paoli and by a desire to recover the family estates in his native
island. Many are pleased to discuss the question of Buonaparte's attitude toward the Jacobin
terrorists. The dilemma they propose is that he was either a convinced and sincere terrorist
or that he fawned on the terrorists from interested motives. This last appears to have been
the opinion of Augustin Robespierre, the former that of his sister Marie, for the time an intimate
friend of the Buonaparte sisters. Both at least have left these opinions on record in letters
and memoirs. There is no need to impale ourselves on either horn, if we consider the youth
as he was, feeling no responsibility whatever for the conditions into which he was thrown,
taking the world as he found it and using its opportunities while they lasted. For the time
and in that place there were terrorists: he made no confession of faith, avoided all snares,
and served his adopted country as she was in fact with little reference to political shibboleths.
He so served her then and henceforth that until he lost both his poise and his indispensable
power, she laid herself at his feet and adored him. Whatever the ties which bound them at first,
the ascendancy of Buonaparte over the young Robespierre was thorough in the end. His were the
suggestions and the enterprises, the political conceptions, the military plans, the devices
to obtain ways and means. It was probably his advice which was determinative in the scheme
of operations finally adopted. With an astute and fertile brain, with a feverish energy and
an unbounded ambition, Buonaparte must attack every problem or be wretched. Here was a most
interesting one, complicated by geographical, political, naval, and military elements. That
he seized it, considered it, and found some solution is inherently probable. The conclusion
too has all the marks of his genius. Yet the glory of success was justly Masséna's. A select
third of the troops were chosen and divided into three divisions to assume the offensive, under
Masséna's direction, against the almost impregnable posts of the Austrians and Sardinians in
the upper Apennines. The rest were held in garrison partly as a reserve, partly to overawe
the newly annexed department of which Nice was the capital.

Genoa now stood in a peculiar relation to France. Her oligarchy, though called a republic,
was in spirit the antipodes of French democracy. Her trade was essential to France, but English
influence predominated in her councils and English force worked its will in her domains. In
October, 1793, a French supply-ship had been seized by an English squadron in the very harbor.
Soon afterward, by way of rejoinder to this act of violence, the French minister at Genoa was
officially informed from Paris that as it appeared no longer possible for a French army to
reach Lombardy by the direct route through the Apennines, it might be necessary to advance
along the coast through Genoese territory. This announcement was no threat, but serious earnest;
the plan had been carefully considered and was before long to be put into execution. It was
merely as a feint that in April, 1794, hostilities were formally opened against Sardinia and
Austria. Masséna seized Ventimiglia on the sixth. Advancing by Oneglia and Ormea, in the valley
of the Stura, he turned the position of the allied Austrians and Sardinians, thus compelling
them to evacuate their strongholds one by one, until on May seventh the pass of Tenda, leading
direct into Lombardy, was abandoned by them.

The result of this movement was to infuse new enthusiasm into the army, while at the same time
it set free, for offensive warfare, large numbers of the garrison troops in places now no longer
in danger. Masséna wrote in terms of exultation of the devotion and endurance which his troops
had shown in the sacred name of liberty. "They know how to conquer and never complain. Marching
barefoot, and often without rations, they abuse no one, but sing the loved notes of 'Ça ira'--'T
will go, 't will go! We'll make the creatures that surround the despot at Turin dance the Carmagnole!"
Victor Amadeus, King of Sardinia, was an excellent specimen of the benevolent despot; it was
he whom they meant. Augustin Robespierre wrote to his brother Maximilien, in Paris, that they
had found the country before them deserted: forty thousand souls had fled from the single valley
of Oneglia, having been terrified by the accounts of French savagery to women and children,
and of their impiety in devastating the churches and religious establishments.

Whether the phenomenal success of this short campaign, which lasted but a month, was expected
or not, nothing was done to improve it, and the advancing battalions suddenly stopped, as if
to make the impression that they could go farther only by way of Genoese territory. Buonaparte
would certainly have shared in the campaign had it been a serious attack; but, except to bring
captured stores from Oneglia, he did nothing, devoting the months of May and June to the completion
of his shore defenses, and living at Nice with his mother and her family. That famous and coquettish
town was now the center of a gay republican society in which Napoleon and his pretty sisters
were important persons. They were the constant companions of young Robespierre and Ricord.
The former, amazed by the activity of his friend's brain, the scope of his plans, and the terrible
energy which marked his preparations, wrote of Napoleon that he was a man of "transcendent
merit." Marmont, speaking of Napoleon's charm at this time, says: "There was so much future
in his mind.... He had acquired an ascendancy over the representatives which it is impossible
to describe." He also declares, and Salicetti, too, repeatedly asseverated, that Buonaparte
was the "man, the plan-maker" of the Robespierres.

The impression which Salicetti and Marmont expressed was doubtless due to the conclusions of
a council of war held on May twentieth by the leaders of the two armies--of the Alps and of
Italy--to concert a plan of coöperation. Naturally each group of generals desired the foremost
place for the army it represented. Buonaparte overrode all objections, and compelled the acceptance
of a scheme entirely his own, which with some additions and by careful elaboration ultimately
developed into the famous plan of campaign in Italy. These circumstances are noteworthy. Again
and again it has been charged that this grand scheme was bodily stolen from the papers of his
great predecessors, one in particular, of whom more must be said in the sequel. Napoleon was
a student and an omnivorous reader, he knew what others had done and written; but the achievement
which launched him on his career was due to the use of his own senses, to his own assimilation
and adaptation of other men's experiences and theories, which had everything to commend them
except that perfection of detail and energy of command which led to actual victory. But affairs
in Genoa were becoming so menacing that for the moment they demanded the exclusive attention
of the French authorities. Austrian troops had disregarded her neutrality and trespassed on
her territory; the land was full of French deserters, and England, recalling her successes
in the same line during the American Revolution, had established a press in the city for printing
counterfeit French money, which was sent by secret mercantile communications to Marseilles,
and there was put into circulation. It was consequently soon determined to amplify greatly
the plan of campaign, and likewise to send a mission to Genoa. Buonaparte was himself appointed
the envoy, and thus became the pivot of both movements--that against Piedmont and that against
Genoa.

CHAPTER XIX.

Vicissitudes in War and Diplomacy.

     Signs of Maturity -- The Mission to Genoa -- Course of the
     French Republic -- The "Terror" -- Thermidor -- Buonaparte a
     Scapegoat -- His Prescience -- Adventures of His Brothers --
     Napoleon's Defense of His French Patriotism -- Bloodshedding
     for Amusement -- New Expedition Against Corsica --
     Buonaparte's Advice for Its Conduct.

[Sidenote: 1794.]

Buonaparte's plan for combining operations against both Genoa and Sardinia was at first hazy.
In his earliest efforts to expand and clarify it, he wrote a rambling document, still in existence,
which draws a contrast between the opposite policies to be adopted with reference to Italy
and Spain. In it he also calls attention to the scarcity of officers suitable for concerted
action in a great enterprise, and a remark concerning the course to be pursued in this particular
case contains the germ of his whole military system. "Combine your forces in a war, as in a
siege, on one point. The breach once made, equilibrium is destroyed, everything else is useless,
and the place is taken. Do not conceal, but concentrate, your attack." In the matter of politics
he sees Germany as the main prop of opposition to democracy; Spain is to be dealt with on the
defensive, Italy on the offensive. But, contrary to what he actually did in the following year,
he advises against proceeding too far into Piedmont, lest the adversary should gain the advantage
of position. This paper Robespierre the younger had in his pocket when he left for Paris, summoned
to aid his brother in difficulties which were now pressing fast upon him.

Ricord was left behind to direct, at least nominally, the movements both of the armies and
of the embassy to Genoa. Buonaparte continued to be the real power. Military operations having
been suspended to await the result of diplomacy, his instructions from Ricord were drawn so
as to be loose and merely formal. On July eleventh he started from Nice, reaching his destination
three days later. During the week of his stay--for he left again on the twenty-first--the envoy
made his representations, and laid down his ultimatum that the republic of Genoa should preserve
absolute neutrality, neither permitting troops to pass over its territories, nor lending aid
in the construction of military roads, as she was charged with doing secretly. His success
in overawing the oligarchy was complete, and a written promise of compliance to these demands
was made by the Doge. Buonaparte arrived again in Nice on the twenty-eighth. We may imagine
that as he traveled the romantic road between the mountains and the sea, the rising general
and diplomat indulged in many rosy dreams, probably feeling already on his shoulders the insignia
of a commander-in-chief. But he was returning to disgrace, if not to destruction. A week after
his arrival came the stupefying news that the hour-glass had once again been reversed, that
on the very day of his own exultant return to Nice, Robespierre's head had fallen, that the
Mountain was shattered, and that the land was again staggering to gain its balance after another
political earthquake.

The shock had been awful, but it was directly traceable to the accumulated disorders of Jacobin
rule. A rude and vigorous but eerie order of things had been inaugurated on November twenty-fourth,
1793, by the so-called republic. There was first the new calendar, in which the year I began
on September twenty-second, 1792, the day on which the republic had been proclaimed. In it
were the twelve thirty-day months, with their names of vintage, fog, and frost; of snow, rain,
and wind; of bud, flower, and meadow; of seed, heat, and harvest: the whole terminated most
unpoetically by the five or six supplementary days named sansculot-tides,--sansculottes meaning
without knee-breeches, a garment confined to the upper classes; that is, with long trousers
like the common people,--and these days were so named because they were to be a holiday for
the long-trousered populace which was to use the new reckoning. There was next the new, strange,
and unhallowed spectacle, seen in history for the first time, the realization of a nightmare--a
whole people finally turned into an army, and at war with nearly all the world. The reforming
Girondists had created the situation, and the Jacobins, with grim humor, were unflinchingly
facing the logical consequences of such audacity. Carnot had given the watchword of attack
in mass and with superior numbers; the times gave the frenzied courage of sentimental exaltation.
Before the end of 1793 the foreign enemies of France, though not conquered, had been checked
on the frontier; the outbreak of civil war in Vendée had been temporarily suppressed; both
Lyons and Toulon had been retaken.

Robespierre, St. Just, Couthon, and Billaud-Varennes were theorists after the manner of Rousseau.
Their new gospel of social regeneration embraced democracy, civic virtue, moral institutions,
and public festivals. These were their shibboleths and catch-words. Incidentally they extolled
paternalism in government, general conscription, compulsory military service, and, on the very
eve of the greatest industrial revival known to history, a return to agricultural society!
The sanction of all this was not moral suasion: essential to the system was Spartan simplicity
and severity, compulsion was the means to their utopia.[40] The Jacobins were nothing if not
thorough; and here was another new and awful thing--the "Terror"--which had broken loose with
its foul furies of party against party through all the land. It seemed at last as if it were
exhausting itself, though for a time it had grown in intensity as it spread in extent. It had
created three factions in the Mountain. Early in 1794 there remained but a little handful of
avowed and still eager terrorists in the Convention--Hébert and his friends. These were the
atheists who had abolished religion and the past, bowing down before the fetish which they
dubbed Reason. They were seized and put to death on March twenty-fourth. There then remained
the cliques of Danton and Robespierre; the former claiming the name of moderates, and telling
men to be calm, the latter with no principle but devotion to a person who claimed to be the
regenerator of society. These hero-worshipers were for a time victorious. Danton, like Hébert,
was foully murdered, and Robespierre remained alone, virtually dictator. But his theatrical
conduct in decreeing by law the existence of a Supreme Being and the immortality of the soul,
and in organizing tawdry festivals to supply the place of worship, utterly embittered against
him both atheists and pious people. In disappointed rage at his failure, he laid aside the
characters of prophet and mild saint to give vent to his natural wickedness and to become a devil.

              [Footnote 40: In Buchez et Roux, Histoire Parlementaire,
              XXXI, pp. 268-290, 415-427; XXXII, pp. 335-381 et
              seq., and in OEuvres de St. Just, pp. 360-420, will be
              found a few examples of their views in their own words.]

During the long days of June and July there raged again a carnival of blood, known to history
as the "Great Terror." In less than seven weeks upward of twelve hundred victims were immolated.
The unbridled license of the guillotine broadened as it ran. First the aristocrats had fallen,
then royalty, then their sympathizers, then the hated rich, then the merely well-to-do, and
lastly anybody not cringing to existing power. The reaction against Robespierre was one of
universal fear. Its inception was the work of Tallien, Fouché, Barras, Carrier, Fréron, and
the like, men of vile character, who knew that if Robespierre could maintain his pose of the
"Incorruptible" their doom was sealed. In this sense Robespierre was what Napoleon called him
at St. Helena, "the scapegoat of the Revolution." The uprising of these accomplices was, however,
the opportunity long desired by the better elements in Parisian society, and the two antipodal
classes made common cause. Dictator as Robespierre wished to be, he was formed of other stuff,
for when the reckoning came his brutal violence was cowed. On July twenty-seventh (the ninth
of Thermidor), the Convention turned on him in rebellion, extreme radicals and moderate conservatives
combining for the effort. Terrible scenes were enacted. The sections of Paris were divided,
some for the Convention, some for Robespierre. The artillerymen who were ordered by the latter
to batter down the part of the Tuileries where his enemies were sitting hesitated and disobeyed;
at once all resistance to the decrees of the Convention died out. The dictator would have been
his own executioner, but his faltering terrors stopped him midway in his half-committed suicide.
He and his brother, with their friends, were seized, and beheaded on the morrow. With the downfall
of Robespierre went the last vestige of social or political authority; for the Convention was
no longer trusted by the nation--the only organized power with popular support which was left
was the army.

This was the news which, traveling southward, finally reached Toulon, Marseilles, and Nice,
cities where Robespierre's stanchest adherents were flaunting their newly gained importance.
No wonder if the brains of common men reeled. The recent so-called parties had disappeared
for the moment like wraiths. The victorious group in the Convention, now known as the Thermidorians,
was compounded of elements from them both, and claimed to represent the whole of France as
the wretched factions who had so long controlled the government had never done. Where now should
those who had been active supporters of the late administration turn for refuge? The Corsicans
who had escaped from the island at the same time with Salicetti and the Buonapartes were nearly
all with the Army of Italy. Employment had been given to them, but, having failed to keep Corsica
for France, they were not in favor. It had already been remarked in the Committee of Public
Safety that their patriotism was less manifest than their disposition to enrich themselves.
This too was the opinion of many among their own countrymen, especially of their own partisans
shut up in Bastia or Calvi and deserted. Salicetti, ever ready for emergencies, was not disconcerted
by this one; and with adroit baseness turned informer, denouncing as a suspicious schemer his
former protégé and lieutenant, of whose budding greatness he was now well aware. He was apparently
both jealous and alarmed. Possibly, however, the whole procedure was a ruse; in the critical
juncture the apparent traitor was by this conduct able efficiently to succor and save his compatriot.

Buonaparte's mission to Genoa had been openly political; secretly it was also a military reconnaissance,
and his confidential instructions, virtually dictated by himself, had unfortunately leaked
out. They had directed him to examine the fortifications in and about both Savona and Genoa,
to investigate the state of the Genoese artillery, to inform himself as to the behavior of
the French envoy to the republic, to learn as much as possible of the intentions of the oligarchy--in
short, to gather all information useful for the conduct of a war "the result of which it is
impossible to foresee." Buonaparte, knowing now that he had trodden dangerous ground in his
unauthorized and secret dealings with the younger Robespierre, and probably foreseeing the
coming storm, began to shorten sail immediately upon reaching Nice. Either he was prescient
and felt the new influences in the air, or else a letter now in the war office at Paris, and
purporting to have been written on August seventh to Tilly, the French agent at Genoa, is an
antedated fabrication written later for Salicetti's use.[41] Speaking, in this paper, of Robespierre
the younger, he said: "I was a little touched by the catastrophe, for I loved him and thought
him spotless. But were it my own father, I would stab him to the heart if he aspired to become
a tyrant." If the letter be genuine, as is probable, the writer was very far-sighted. He knew
that its contents would speedily reach Paris in the despatches of Tilly, so that it was virtually
a public renunciation of Jacobinism at the earliest possible date, an anchor to windward in
the approaching tempest. But momentarily the trick was of no avail; he was first superseded
in his command, then arrested on August tenth, and, fortunately for himself, imprisoned two
days later in Fort Carré, near Antibes, instead of being sent direct to Paris as some of his
friends were. This temporary shelter from the devastating blast he owed to Salicetti, who would,
no doubt, without hesitation have destroyed a friend for his own safety, but was willing enough
to spare him if not driven to extremity.

              [Footnote 41: Jung: Bonaparte et son temps, II, 455.]

As the true state of things in Corsica began to be known in France, there was a general disposition
to blame and punish the influential men who had brought things to such a desperate pass and
made the loss of the island probable, if not certain. Salicetti, Multedo, and the rest quickly
unloaded the whole blame on Buonaparte's shoulders, so that he had many enemies in Paris. Thus
by apparent harshness to one whom he still considered a subordinate, the real culprit escaped
suspicion. Assured of immunity from punishment himself, Salicetti was content with his rival's
humiliation, and felt no real rancor toward the family. This is clear from his treatment of
Louis Buonaparte, who had fallen from place and favor along with his brother, but was by Salicetti's
influence soon afterward made an officer of the home guard at Nice. Joseph had rendered himself
conspicuous in the very height of the storm by a brilliant marriage; but neither he nor Fesch
was arrested, and both managed to pull through with whole skins. The noisy Lucien was also
married, but to a girl who, though respectable, was poor; and in consequence he was thoroughly
frightened at the thought of losing his means of support. But though menaced with arrest, he
was sufficiently insignificant to escape for the time.

Napoleon was kept in captivity but thirteen days. Salicetti apparently found it easier than
he had supposed to exculpate himself from the charge either of participating in Robespierre's
conspiracy or of having brought about the Corsican insurrection. More than this, he found himself
firm in the good graces of the Thermidorians, among whom his old friends Barras and Fréron
were held in high esteem. It would therefore be a simple thing to liberate General Buonaparte,
if only a proper expression of opinion could be secured from him. The clever prisoner had it
ready before it was needed. To the faithful Junot he wrote a kindly note declining to be rescued
by a body of friends organized to storm the prison or scale its walls.[42] Such a course would
have compromised him further. But to the "representatives of the people" he wrote in language
which finally committed him for life. He explained that in a revolutionary epoch there are
but two classes of men, patriots and suspects. It could easily be seen to which class a man
belonged who had fought both intestine and foreign foes. "I have sacrificed residence in my
department, I have abandoned all my goods, I have lost all for the republic. Since then I have
served at Toulon with some distinction, and I have deserved a share with the Army of Italy
in the laurels it earned at the taking of Saorgio, Oneglia, and Tanaro. On the discovery of
Robespierre's conspiracy, my conduct was that of a man accustomed to regard nothing but principle."
The letter concludes with a passionate appeal to each one of the controlling officials separately
and by name, that is, to both Salicetti and Albitte, for justice and restoration. "An hour
later, if the wicked want my life, I will gladly give it to them, I care so little for it,
I weary so often of it! Yes; the idea that it may be still useful to my country is all that
makes me bear the burden with courage." The word for country which he employed, patrie, could
only be interpreted as referring to France.

              [Footnote 42: Correspondance de Napoléon, I, No. 35.]

Salicetti in person went through the form of examining the papers offered in proof of Buonaparte's
statements; found them, as a matter of course, satisfactory; and the commissioners restored
the suppliant to partial liberty, but not to his post. He was to remain at army headquarters,
and the still terrible Committee of Safety was to receive regular reports of his doings. This,
too, was but a subterfuge; on August twentieth he was restored to his rank. A few weeks later
commissioners from the Thermidorians arrived, with orders that for the present all offensive
operations in Italy were to be suspended in order to put the strength of the district into
a maritime expedition against Rome and ultimately against Corsica, which was now in the hands
of England. Buonaparte immediately sought, and by Salicetti's favor obtained, the important
charge of equipping and inspecting the artillery destined for the enterprise. He no doubt hoped
to make the venture tell in his personal interest against the English party now triumphant
in his home. This was the middle of September. Before beginning to prepare for the Corsican
expedition, the army made a final demonstration to secure its lines. It was during the preparatory
days of this short campaign that a dreadful incident occurred. Buonaparte had long since learned
the power of women, and had been ardently attentive in turn both to Mme. Robespierre and to
Mme. Ricord. "It was a great advantage to please them," he said; "for in a lawless time a representative
of the people is a real power." Mme. Turreau, wife of one of the new commissioners, was now
the ascendant star in his attentions. One day, while walking arm in arm with her near the top
of the Tenda pass, Buonaparte took a sudden freak to show her what war was like, and ordered
the advance-guard to charge the Austrian pickets. The attack was not only useless, but it endangered
the safety of the army; yet it was made according to command, and human blood was shed. The
story was told by Napoleon himself, at the close of his life, in a tone of repentance, but
with evident relish.[43]

              [Footnote 43: Las Cases: Mémorial de Sainte-Hélène, I,
              141.]

Buonaparte was present at the ensuing victories, but only as a well-informed spectator and
adviser, for he was yet in nominal disgrace. Within five days the enemies' lines were driven
back so as to leave open the two most important roads into Italy--that by the valley of the
Bormida to Alessandria, and that by the shore to Genoa. The difficult pass of Tenda fell entirely
into French hands. The English could not disembark their troops to strengthen the Allies. The
commerce of Genoa with Marseilles was reëstablished by land. "We have celebrated the fifth
sansculottide of the year II (September twenty-first, 1794) in a manner worthy of the republic
and the National Convention," wrote the commissioners to their colleagues in Paris. On the
twenty-fourth, General Buonaparte was released by them from attendance at headquarters, thus
becoming once again a free man and his own master. He proceeded immediately to Toulon in order
to prepare for the Corsican expedition. Once more the power of a great nation was, he hoped,
to be directed against the land of his birth, and he was an important agent in the plan.

To regain, if possible, some of his lost influence in the island, Buonaparte had already renewed
communication with former acquaintances in Ajaccio. In a letter written immediately after his
release in September, 1794, to the Corsican deputy Multedo, he informed his correspondent that
his birthplace was the weakest spot on the island, and open to attack. The information was
correct. Paoli had made an effort to strengthen it, but without success. "To drive the English,"
said the writer of the letter, "from a position which makes them masters of the Mediterranean,
... to emancipate a large number of good patriots still to be found in that department, and
to restore to their firesides the good republicans who have deserved the care of their country
by the generous manner in which they have suffered for it,--this, my friend, is the expedition
which should occupy the attention of the government." His fortune was in a sense dependent
on success: the important position of artillery inspector could not be held by an absentee
and it was soon filled by the appointment of a rival compatriot, Casabianca. In the event of
failure Buonaparte would be destitute. Perhaps the old vista of becoming a Corsican hero opened
up once again to a sore and disappointed man, but it is not probable: the horizon of his life
had expanded too far to be again contracted, and the present task was probably considered but
as a bridge to cross once more the waters of bitterness. On success or failure hung his fate.
Two fellow-adventurers were Junot and Marmont. The former was the child of plain French burghers,
twenty-three years old, a daring, swaggering youth, indifferent to danger, already an intimate
of Napoleon's, having been his secretary at Toulon. His chequered destiny was interwoven with
that of his friend and he came to high position. But though faithful to the end, he was always
erratic and troublesome; and in an attack of morbid chagrin he came to a violent end in 1813.
The other comrade was but a boy of twenty, the son of an officer who, though of the lower nobility,
was a convinced revolutionary. The boys had met several years earlier at Dijon and again as
young men at Toulon, where the friendship was knitted which grew closer and closer for twenty
years. At Wagram, Marmont became a marshal. Already he had acquired habits of luxurious ease
and the doubtful fortunes of his Emperor exasperated him into critical impatience. He so magnified
his own importance that at last he deserted. The labored memoirs he wrote are the apology for
his life and for his treachery. Though without great genius, he was an able man and an industrious
recorder of valuable impressions. Not one of the three accomplished anything during the Corsican
expedition; their common humiliation probably commended both of his junior comrades to Buonaparte's
tenderness, and thereafter both enjoyed much of his confidence, especially Marmont, in whom
it was utterly misplaced.

CHAPTER XX.

The End of Apprenticeship.

     The English Conquest of Corsica -- Effects in Italy -- The
     Buonapartes at Toulon -- Napoleon Thwarted Again --
     Departure for Paris -- His Character Determined -- His
     Capacities -- Reaction From the "Terror" -- Resolutions of
     the Convention -- Parties in France -- Their Lack of
     Experience -- A New Constitution -- Different Views of Its
     Value.

[Sidenote: 1795.]

The turmoils of civil war in France had now left Corsica to her own pursuits for many months.
Her internal affairs had gone from bad to worse, and Paoli, unable to control his fierce and
wilful people, had found himself helpless. Compelled to seek the support of some strong foreign
power, he had instinctively turned to England, and the English fleet, driven from Toulon, was
finally free to help him. On February seventeenth, 1794, it entered the fine harbor of St.
Florent, and captured the town without an effort. Establishing a depot which thus separated
the two remaining centers of French influence, Calvi and Bastia, the English admiral next laid
siege to the latter. The place made a gallant defense, holding out for over three months, until
on May twenty-second Captain Horatio Nelson, who had virtually controlled operations for eighty-eight
days continuously,--nearly the entire time,--directed the guns of the Agamemnon with such destructive
force against the little city that when the land forces from St. Florent appeared it was weakened
beyond the power of resistance and surrendered.[44] The terms made by its captors were the
easiest known to modern warfare, the conquered being granted all the honors of war. As a direct
and immediate result, the Corsican estates met, and declared the island a constitutional monarchy
under the protection of England. Sir Gilbert Elliot was appointed viceroy, and Paoli was recalled
by George III to England. On August tenth fell Calvi, the last French stronghold in the country,
hitherto considered impregnable by the Corsicans.

              [Footnote 44: For a full account of these important
              operations see Mahan: Life of Nelson, I, 123 et seq.]

The presence of England so close to Italian shores immediately produced throughout Lombardy
and Tuscany a reaction of feeling in favor of the French Revolution and its advanced ideas.
The Committee of Safety meant to take advantage of this sentiment and reduce the Italian powers
to the observance of strict neutrality at least, if nothing more. They hoped to make a demonstration
at Leghorn and punish Rome for an insult to the republic still unavenged--the death of the
French minister, in 1793, at the hands of a mob; perhaps they might also drive the British
from Corsica. This explained the arrival of the commissioners at Nice with the order to cease
operations against Sardinia and Austria, for the purpose of striking at English influence in
Italy, and possibly in Corsica.

Everything but one was soon in readiness. To meet the English fleet, the shipwrights at Toulon
must prepare a powerful squadron. They did not complete their gigantic task until February
nineteenth, 1795. We can imagine the intense activity of any man of great power, determined
to reconquer a lost position: what Buonaparte's fire and zeal must have been we can scarcely
conceive; even his fiercest detractors bear witness to the activity of those months. When the
order to embark was given, his organization and material were both as nearly perfect as possible.
His mother had brought the younger children to a charming house near by, where she entertained
the influential women of the neighborhood; and thither her busy son often withdrew for the
pleasures of a society which he was now beginning thoroughly to enjoy. Thanks to the social
diplomacy of this most ingenious family, everything went well for a time, even with Lucien;
and Louis, now sixteen, was made a lieutenant of artillery. At the last moment came what seemed
the climax of Napoleon's good fortune, the assurance that the destination of the fleet would
be Corsica. Peace was made with Tuscany. Rome could not be reached without a decisive engagement
with the English; therefore the first object of the expedition would be to engage the British
squadron which was cruising about Corsica. Victory would of course mean entrance into Corsican
harbors.

On March eleventh the new fleet set sail. In its very first encounter with the English on March
thirteenth the fleet successfully manoeuvered and just saved a fine eighty-gun ship, the Ça
Ira, from capture by Nelson. Next day there was a partial fleet action which ended in a disaster,
and two fine ships were captured, the Ça Ira and the Censeur; the others fled to Hyères, where
the troops were disembarked from their transports, and sent back to their posts.[45] Naval
operations were not resumed for three months. Once more Buonaparte was the victim of uncontrollable
circumstance. Destitute of employment, stripped even of the little credit gained in the last
half-year,[46] he stood for the seventh time on the threshold of the world, a suppliant at
the door. In some respects he was worse equipped for success than at the beginning, for he
now had a record to expunge. To an outsider the spring of 1795 must have appeared the most
critical period of his life.[47] He himself knew better; in fact, this ill-fated expedition
was probably soon forgotten altogether. In his St. Helena reminiscences, at least, he never
recalled it: at that time he was not fond of mentioning his failures, little or great, being
chiefly concerned to hand himself down to history as a man of lofty purposes and unsullied
motives. Besides, he was never in the slightest degree responsible for the terrible waste of
millions in this ill-starred maritime enterprise; all his own plans had been for the conduct
of the war by land.

              [Footnote 45: Marmont: Mémoires, I, 77-78.]

              [Footnote 46: Inspection report in Jung, II, 477. "Too
              much ambition and intrigue for his advancement."]

              [Footnote 47: He was far down the list, one hundred and
              thirty-ninth in the line of promotion.]

The Corsican administration had always had in it at least one French representative. Between
the latest of these, Lacombe Saint-Michel, now a member of the Committee of Safety, and the
Salicetti party no love was ever lost. It was a general feeling that the refugee Corsicans
on the Mediterranean shore were too near their home. They were always charged with unscrupulous
planning to fill their own pockets. Now, somehow or other, inexplicably perhaps, but nevertheless
certainly, a costly expedition had been sent to Corsica under the impulse of these very men,
and it had failed. The unlucky adventurers had scarcely set their feet on shore before Lacombe
secured Buonaparte's appointment to the Army of the West, where he would be far from old influences,
with orders to proceed immediately to his post. The papers reached Marseilles, whither the
Buonapartes had already betaken themselves, during the month of April. On May second,[48] accompanied
by Louis, Junot, and Marmont, the broken general set out for Paris, where he arrived with his
companions eight days later, and rented shabby lodgings in the Fossés-Montmartre, now Aboukir
street. The style of the house was Liberty Hotel.

              [Footnote 48: Possibly the twelfth. See Jung, III, I.]

At this point Buonaparte's apprentice years may be said to have ended: he was virtually the
man he remained to the end. A Corsican by origin, he retained the national sensibility and
an enormous power of endurance both physical and intellectual, together with the dogged persistence
found in the medieval Corsicans. He was devoted with primitive virtue to his family and his
people, but was willing to sacrifice the latter, at least, to his ambition. His moral sense,
having never been developed by education, and, worse than that, having been befogged by the
extreme sensibility of Rousseau and by the chaos of the times which that prophet had brought
to pass, was practically lacking. Neither the hostility of his father to religion, nor his
own experiences with the Jesuits, could, however, entirely eradicate a superstition which passed
in his mind for faith. Sometimes he was a scoffer, as many with weak convictions are; but in
general he preserved a formal and outward respect for the Church. He was, however, a stanch
opponent of Roman centralization and papal pretensions. His theoretical education had been
narrow and one-sided; but his reading and his authorship, in spite of their superficial and
desultory character, had given him certain large and fairly definite conceptions of history
and politics. But his practical education! What a polishing and sharpening he had had against
the revolving world moving many times faster then than in most ages! He was an adept in the
art of civil war, for he had been not merely an interested observer, but an active participant
in it during five years in two countries. Long the victim of wiles more secret than his own,
he had finally grown most wily in diplomacy; an ambitious politician, his pulpy principles
were republican in their character so far as they had any tissue or firmness.

His acquisitions in the science of war were substantial and definite. Neither a martinet himself
nor in any way tolerant of routine, ignorant in fact of many hateful details, among others
of obedience, he yet rose far above tradition or practice in his conception of strategy. He
was perceptibly superior to the world about him in almost every aptitude, and particularly
so in power of combination, in originality, and in far-sightedness. He could neither write
nor spell correctly, but he was skilled in all practical applications of mathematics: town
and country, mountains and plains, seas and rivers, were all quantities in his equations. Untrustworthy
himself, he strove to arouse trust, faith, and devotion in those about him; and concealing
successfully his own purpose, he read the hearts of others like an open book. Of pure-minded
affection for either men or women he had so far shown only a little, and had experienced in
return even less; but he had studied the arts of gallantry, and understood the leverage of
social forces. To these capacities, some embryonic, some perfectly formed, add the fact that
he was now a cosmopolitan, and there will be outline, relief, and color to his character. "I
am in that frame of mind," he said of himself about this time, "in which men are when on the
eve of battle, with a persistent conviction that since death is imminent in the end, to be
uneasy is folly. Everything makes me brave death and destiny; and if this goes on, I shall
in the end, my friend, no longer turn when a carriage passes. My reason is sometimes astonished
at all this; but it is the effect produced on me by the moral spectacle of this land [ce pays-ci,
not patrie], and by the habit of running risks." This is the power and the temper of a man
of whom an intimate and confidential friend predicted that he would never stop short until
he had mounted either the throne or the scaffold.

The overthrow of Robespierre was the result of an alliance between what have been called the
radicals and the conservatives in the Convention. Both were Jacobins, for the Girondists had
been discredited, and put out of doors. It was not, however, the Convention, but Paris, which
took command of the resulting movement. The social structure of France has been so strong,
and the nation so homogeneous, that political convulsions have had much less influence there
than elsewhere. But the "Terror" had struck at the heart of nearly every family of consequence
in the capital, and the people were utterly weary of horrors. The wave of reaction began when
the would-be dictator fell. A wholesome longing for safety, with its attendant pleasures, overpowered
society, and light-heartedness returned. Underneath this temper lay but partly concealed a
grim determination not to be thwarted, which awed the Convention. Slowly, yet surely, the Jacobins
lost their power. As once the whole land had been mastered by the idea of "federation," and
as a later patriotic impulse had given as a watchword "the nation," so now another refrain
was in every mouth--"humanity." The very songs of previous stages, the "Ça ira" and the "Carmagnole,"
were displaced by new and milder ones. With Paris in this mood, it was clear that the proscribed
might return, and the Convention, for its intemperate severity, must abdicate.

This, of course, meant a new political experiment; but being, as they were, sanguine admirers
of Rousseau, the French felt no apprehension at the prospect. The constitution of the third
republic in France has been considered a happy chance by many. Far from being perfectly adapted
to the needs of the nation, the fine qualities it possesses are the outcome, not of chance,
nor of theory, but of a century's experience. It should be remembered that France in the eighteenth
century had had no experience whatever of constitutional government, and the spirit of the
age was all for theory in politics. Accordingly the democratic monarchy of 1791 had failed
because, its framework having been built of empty visions, its constitution was entirely in
the air. The same fate had now overtaken the Girondist experiment of 1792 and the Jacobin usurpation
of the following year, which was ostensibly sanctioned by the popular adoption of a new constitution.
With perfect confidence in Rousseau's idea that government is based on a social contract between
individuals, the nation had sworn its adhesion to two constitutions successively, and had ratified
the act each time by appropriate solemnities. Already the bubble of such a conception had been
punctured. Was it strange that the Convention determined to repeat the same old experiment?
Not at all. They knew nothing better than the old idea, and never doubted that the fault lay,
not in the system, but in its details; they believed they could improve on the work of their
predecessors by the change and modification of particulars. Aware, therefore, that their own
day had passed, they determined, before dissolving, to construct a new and improved form of
government. The work was confided to a committee of eleven, most of whom were Girondists recalled
for the purpose in order to hoodwink the public. They now separated the executive and judiciary
from each other and from the legislature, divided the latter into two branches, so as to cool
the heat of popular sentiment before it was expressed in statutes, and, avoiding the pitfall
dug for itself by the National Assembly, made members of the Convention eligible for election
under the new system.

If the monarchy could have been restored at the same time, these features of the new charter
would have reproduced in France some elements of the British constitution, and its adoption
would probably have pacified the dynastic rulers of Europe. But the restoration of monarchy
in any form was as yet impossible. The Bourbons had utterly discredited royalty, and the late
glorious successes had been won partly by the lavish use in the enemy's camp of money raised
and granted by radical democrats, partly by the prowess of enthusiastic republicans. The compact,
efficient organization of the national army was the work of the Jacobins, and while the Mountain
was discredited in Paris, it was not so in the provinces; moreover, the army which was on foot
and in the field was in the main a Jacobin army. Royalty was so hated by most Frenchmen that
the sad plight of the child dauphin, dying by inches in the Temple, awakened no compassion,
and its next lineal representative was that hated thing, a voluntary exile; the nobility, who
might have furnished the material for a French House of Lords, were traitors to their country,
actually bearing arms in the levies of her foes. The national feeling was a passion; Louis
XVI had been popular enough until he had outraged it first by ordering the Church to remain
obedient to Rome, and then by appealing to foreign powers for protection. The emigrant nobles
had stumbled over one another in their haste to manifest their contempt for nationality by
throwing themselves into the arms of their own class in foreign lands.

Moreover, another work of the Revolution could not be undone. The lands of both the emigrants
and the Church had either been seized and divided among the adherents of the new order, or
else appropriated to state uses. Restitution was out of the question, for the power of the
new owners was sufficient to destroy any one who should propose to take away their possessions.
This is a fact particularly to be emphasized, because, making all allowances, the subsequent
history of France has been determined by the alliance of a landed peasantry with the petty
burghers of the cities and towns. What both have always desired is a strong hand in government
which assures their property rights. Whenever any of the successive forms and methods has failed
its fate was doomed. In this temper of the masses, in the flight of the ruling class, in the
distemper of the radical democracy, a constitutional monarchy was unthinkable. A presidential
government on the model of that devised and used by the United States was equally impossible,
because the French appear already to have had a premonition or an instinct that a ripe experience
of liberty was essential to the working of such an institution. The student of the revolutionary
times will become aware how powerful the feeling already was among the French that a single
strong executive, elected by the masses, would speedily turn into a tyrant. They have now a
nominal president; but his election is indirect, his office is representative, not political,
and his duties are like an impersonal, colorless reflection of those performed by the English
crown. The constitution-makers simply could not fall back on an experience of successful free
government which did not exist. Absolute monarchy had made gradual change impossible, for oppression
dies only in convulsions. Experience was in front, not behind, and must be gained through suffering.

It was therefore a grim necessity which led the Thermidorians of the Convention to try another
political nostrum. What should it be? There had always been a profound sense in France of her
historic continuity with Rome. Her system of jurisprudence, her speech, her church, her very
land, were Roman. Recalling this, the constitution-framers also recollected that these had
been the gifts of imperial and Christian Rome. It was a curious but characteristic whim which
consequently suggested to the enemies of ecclesiasticism the revival of Roman forms dating
from the heathen commonwealth. This it was which led them to commit the administration of government
in both external and internal relations to a divided executive. There, however, the resemblance
to Rome ended, for instead of two consuls there were to be five directors. These were to sit
as a committee, to appoint their own ministerial agents, together with all officers and officials
of the army, and to fill the few positions in the administrative departments which were not
elective, except those in the treasury, which was a separate, independent administration. All
executive powers except those of the treasury were likewise to be in their hands. They were
to have no veto, and their treaties of peace must be ratified by the legislature; but they
could declare war without consulting any one. The judiciary was to be elected directly by the
people, and the judges were to hold office for about a year. The legislature was to be separated
into a senate with two hundred and fifty members, called the Council of Ancients, which had
the veto power, and an assembly called the Council of Juniors, or, more popularly, from its
number, the Five Hundred, which had the initiative in legislation. The members of the former
must be at least forty years old and married; every aspirant for a seat in the latter must
be twenty-five and of good character. Both these bodies were alike to be elected by universal
suffrage working indirectly through secondary electors, and limited by educational and property
qualifications. There were many wholesome checks and balances. This constitution is known as
that of I Vendémiaire, An IV, or September twenty-second, 1795. It became operative on October
twenty-sixth.

The scheme was formed, as was intended, under Girondist influence, and was acceptable to the
nation as a whole. In spite of many defects, it might after a little experience have been amended
so as to work, if the people had been united and hearty in its support. But they were not.
The Thermidorians, who were still Jacobins at heart, ordered that at least two-thirds of the
men elected to sit in the new houses should have been members of the Convention, on the plea
that they alone had sufficient experience of affairs to carry on the public business, at least
for the present. Perhaps this was intended as some offset to the enforced closing of the Jacobin
Club on November twelfth, 1794, due to menaces by the higher classes of Parisian society, known
to history as "the gilded youth." On the other hand, the royalists saw in the new constitution
an instrument ready to their hand, should public opinion, in its search for means to restore
quiet and order, be carried still further away from the Revolution than the movement of Thermidor
had swept it. Their conduct justified the measures of the Jacobins.

CHAPTER XXI.

The Antechamber to Success.

     Punishment of the Terrorists -- Dangers of the Thermidorians
     -- Successes of Republican Arms -- Some Republican Generals
     -- Military Prodigies -- The Treaty of Basel -- Vendean
     Disorders Repressed -- A "White Terror" -- Royalist Activity
     -- Friction Under the New Constitution -- Arrival of
     Buonaparte in Paris -- Paris Society -- Its Power -- The
     People Angry -- Resurgence of Jacobinism -- Buonaparte's
     Dejection -- His Relations with Mme. Permon -- His
     Magnanimity.

[Sidenote: 1795.]

From time to time after the events of Thermidor the more active agents of the Terror were sentenced
to transportation, and the less guilty were imprisoned. On May seventh, 1795, three days before
Buonaparte's arrival in Paris, Fouquier-Tinville, and fifteen other wretches who had been but
tools, the executioners of the revolutionary tribunal, were put to death. The National Guard
had been reorganized, and Pichegru was recalled from the north to take command of the united
forces in Paris under a committee of the Convention with Barras at its head.

This was intended to overawe those citizens of Paris who were hostile to the Jacobins. They
saw the trap set for them, and were angry. During the years of internal disorder and foreign
warfare just passed the economic conditions of the land had grown worse and worse, until, in
the winter of 1794-95, the laboring classes of Paris were again on the verge of starvation.
As usual, they attributed their sufferings to the government, and there were bread riots. Twice
in the spring of 1795--on April first and May twentieth--the unemployed and hungry rose to
overthrow the Convention, but they were easily put down by the soldiers on both occasions.
The whole populace, as represented by the sections or wards of Paris, resented this use of
armed force, and grew uneasy. The Thermidorians further angered it by introducing a new metropolitan
administration, which greatly diminished the powers and influence of the sections, without,
however, destroying their organization. The people of the capital, therefore, were ready for
mischief. The storming of the Tuileries on August tenth, 1792, had been the work of the Paris
mob. Why could they not in turn, another mob, reactionary and to a degree even royalist, overthrow
the tyranny of the Jacobins as they themselves had overthrown the double-faced administration
of the King?

A crisis might easily have been precipitated before Buonaparte's arrival in Paris, but it was
delayed by events outside the city. The year 1794 had been a brilliant season for the republican
arms and for republican diplomacy. We have seen how the Piedmontese were forced beyond the
maritime Alps; the languid and worthless troops of Spain were expelled from the Pyrenean strongholds
and forced southward; in some places, beyond the Ebro. Pichegru, with the Army of the North,
had driven the invaders from French soil and had conquered the Austrian Netherlands. Jourdan,
with the Army of the Sambre and Meuse, had defeated the Austrians at Fleurus in a battle decided
by the bravery of Marceau, thus confirming the conquest. Other generals were likewise rising
to eminence. Hoche had in 1793 beaten the Austrians under Wurmser at Weissenburg, and driven
them from Alsace. He had now further heightened his fame by his successes against the insurgents
of the west. Saint-Cyr, Bernadotte, and Kléber, with many others of Buonaparte's contemporaries,
had also risen to distinction in minor engagements.

Of peasant birth, Pichegru was nevertheless appointed by ecclesiastical influence as a scholar
at Brienne. In the dearth of generals he was selected for promotion by Saint-Just as was Hoche
at the time when Carnot discovered Jourdan. Having assisted Hoche in the conquest of Alsace
when a division general and only thirty-two years old, he began the next year, in 1794, to
deploy his extraordinary powers, and with Moreau as second in command he swept the English
and Austrians out of the Netherlands. Both these generals were sensitive and jealous men; after
brilliant careers under the republic they turned royalists and came to unhappy ends. Moreau
was two years the junior. He was the son of a Breton lawyer and rose to notice both as a local
politician, and as a volunteer captain in the Breton struggles for independence with which
he had no sympathy. As a great soldier he ranks with Hoche after Napoleon in the revolutionary
time. Hoche was younger still, having been born in 1768. In 1784 he enlisted as a common soldier
and rose from the ranks by sheer ability. He died at the age of thirty, but as a politician
and strategist he was already famous. Kléber was an Alsatian who had been educated in the military
school at Munich and was already forty-one years old. Having enlisted under the Revolution
as a volunteer, he so distinguished himself on the Rhine that he was swiftly promoted; but,
thwarted in his ambition to have an independent command, he lost his ardor and did not again
distinguish himself until he secured service under Napoleon in Egypt. There he exhibited such
capacity that he was regarded as one of Bonaparte's rivals. He was assassinated by an Oriental
in Cairo. Bernadotte was four years the senior of Bonaparte, the son of a lawyer in Paris.
He too enlisted in the ranks, as a royal marine, and rose by his own merits. He was a rude
radical whose military ability was paralleled by his skill in diplomacy. His swift promotion
was obtained in the Rhenish campaigns. Gouvion Saint-Cyr was also born in 1764 at Toul. He
was a marquis but an ardent reformer, and a born soldier. He began as a volunteer captain on
the staff of Custine, and rising like the others mentioned became an excellent general, though
his chances for distinction were few. Jourdan was likewise a nobleman, born at Limoges to the
rank of count in 1762. His long career was solid rather than brilliant, though he gained great
distinction in the northern campaigns and ended as a marshal, the military adviser of Joseph
Bonaparte in Naples and Madrid.

The record of military energy put forth by the liberated nation under Jacobin rule stands,
as Fox declared in the House of Commons, absolutely unique. Twenty-seven victories, eight in
pitched battle; one hundred and twenty fights; ninety thousand prisoners; one hundred and sixteen
towns and important places captured; two hundred and thirty forts or redoubts taken; three
thousand eight hundred pieces of ordnance, seventy thousand muskets, one thousand tons of powder,
and ninety standards fallen into French hands--such is the incredible tale. Moreover, the army
had been purged with as little mercy as a mercantile corporation shows to incompetent employees.
It is often claimed that the armies of republican France and of Napoleon were, after all, the
armies of the Bourbons. Not so. The conscription law, though very imperfect in itself, was
supplemented by the general enthusiasm; a nation was now in the ranks instead of hirelings;
the reorganization had remodeled the whole structure, and between January first, 1792, and
January twentieth, 1795, one hundred and ten division commanders, two hundred and sixty-three
generals of brigade, and one hundred and thirty-eight adjutant-generals either resigned, were
suspended from duty, or dismissed from the service. The republic had new leaders and new men
in its armies.

The nation had apparently determined that the natural boundary of France and of its own revolutionary
system was the Rhine. Nice and Savoy would round out their territory to the south. This much
the new government, it was understood, would conquer, administer, and keep; the Revolution
in other lands, impelled but not guided by French influence, must manage its own affairs. This
was, of course, an entirely new diplomatic situation. Under its pressure Holland, by the aid
of Pichegru's army, became the Batavian Republic, and ceded Dutch Flanders to France; while
Prussia abandoned the coalition, and in the treaty of Basel, signed on April fifth, 1795, agreed
to the neutrality of all north Germany. In return for the possessions of the ecclesiastical
princes in central Germany, which were eventually to be secularized, she yielded to France
undisputed possession of the left bank of the Rhine. Spain, Portugal, and the little states
both of south Germany and of Italy were all alike weary of the contest, the more so as they
were honeycombed with liberal ideas. They were already preparing to desert England and Austria,
the great powers which still stood firm. With the exception of Portugal, they acceded within
a few weeks to the terms made at Basel. Rome, as the instigator of the unyielding ecclesiastics
of Vendée, was, of course, on the side of Great Britain and the Empire.

At home the military success of the republic was for a little while equally marked. Before
the close of 1794 the Breton peasants who, under the name of Chouans, had become lawless highwaymen
were entirely crushed; and the English expedition sent to Quiberon in the following year to
revive the disorders was a complete, almost ridiculous failure. The insurrection of Vendée
had dragged stubbornly on, but it was stamped out in June, 1795, by the execution of over seven
hundred of the emigrants who had returned on English vessels to fan the royalist blaze which
was kindling again.

The royalists, having created the panic of five years previous, were not to be outdone even
by the Terror. Charette, the Vendean leader, retaliated by a holocaust of two thousand republican
prisoners whom he had taken. After the events of Thermidor the Convention had thrown open the
prison doors, put an end to bloodshed, and proclaimed an amnesty. The evident power of the
Parisian burghers, the form given by the Girondists to the new constitution, the longing of
all for peace and for a return of comfort and prosperity, still further emboldened the royalists,
and enabled them to produce a wide-spread revulsion of feeling. They rose in many parts of
the south, instituting what is known from the colors they wore as the "White Terror," and pitilessly
murdering, in the desperation of timid revenge, their unsuspecting and unready neighbors of
republican opinions. The scenes enacted were more terrible, the human butchery was more bloody,
than any known during the darkest days of the revolutionary movement in Paris. This might well
be considered the preliminary trial to the Great White Terror of 1815, in which the frenzy
and fanaticism of royalists and Roman Catholics surpassed the most frantic efforts of radicals
in lawless bloodshed. Imperialists, free-thinkers, and Protestants were the victims.

The Jacobins, therefore, in view of so dangerous a situation, and not without some reason,
had determined that they themselves should administer the new constitution. They were in the
most desperate straits because the Paris populace now held them directly responsible for the
existing scarcity of food, a scarcity amounting to famine. From time to time for months the
mob invaded the hall of the Convention, craving bread with angry, hungry clamor. The members
mingled with the disorderly throng on the floor and temporarily soothed them by empty promises.
But each inroad of disorder was worse than the preceding until the Mountain was not only without
support from the rabble, but an object of loathing and contempt to them and their half-starved
leaders. Hence their only chance for power was in some new rearrangement under which they would
not be so prominent in affairs. The royalists at the same time saw in the provisions of the
new charter a means to accomplish their own ends; and relying upon the attitude of the capital,
in which mob and burghers alike were angry, determined simultaneously to strike a blow for
mastery, and to supplant the Jacobins. Evidence of their activity appeared both in military
and political circles. Throughout the summer of 1795 there was an unaccountable languor in
the army. It was believed that Pichegru had purposely palsied his own and Jourdan's abilities,
and the needless armistice he made with Austria went far to confirm the idea. It was afterward
proved that several members of the Convention had been in communication with royalists. Among
their agents was a personage of some importance--a certain Aubry--who, having returned after
the events of Thermidor, never disavowed his real sentiments as a royalist; and being later
made chairman of the army committee, was in that position when Buonaparte's career was temporarily
checked by degradation from the artillery to the infantry. For this absurd reason he was long
but unjustly thought also to have caused the original transfer to the west.

The Convention was aware of all that was taking place, but was also helpless to correct the
trouble. Having abolished the powerful and terrible Committee of Safety, which had conducted
its operations with such success as attends remorseless vigor, it was found necessary on August
ninth to reconstruct something similar to meet the new crisis. At the same time the spirit
of the hour was propitiated by forming sixteen other committees to control the action of the
central one. Such a dispersion of executive power was a virtual paralysis of action, but it
was to be only temporary, they would soon centralize their strength in an efficient way. The
constitution was adopted only a fortnight later, on August twenty-second. Immediately the sections
of Paris began to display irritation at the limitations set to their choice of new representatives.
They had many sympathizers in the provinces, and the extreme reactionaries from the Revolution
were jubilant. Fortunately for France, Carnot was temporarily retained to control the department
of war. He was not removed until the following March.

When General Buonaparte reached Paris, and went to dwell in the mean and shabby lodgings which
his lean purse compelled him to choose, he found the city strangely metamorphosed. Animated
by a settled purpose not to accept the position assigned to him in the Army of the West, and,
if necessary, to defy his military superiors, his humor put him out of all sympathy with the
prevalent gaiety. Bitter experience had taught him that in civil war the consequences of victory
and defeat are alike inglorious. In the fickleness of public opinion the avenging hero of to-day
may easily become the reprobated outcast of to-morrow. What reputation he had gained at Toulon
was already dissipated in part; the rest might easily be squandered entirely in Vendée. He
felt and said that he could wait. But how about his daily bread?

The drawing-rooms of Paris had opened like magic before the "sesame" of Thermidor and the prospects
of settled order under the Directory. There were visiting, dining, and dancing; dressing, flirtation,
and intrigue; walking, driving, and riding--all the avocations of a people soured with the
cruel and bloody past, and reasserting its native passion for pleasure and refinement. All
classes indulged in the wildest speculation, securities public and corporate were the sport
of the exchange, the gambling spirit absorbed the energies of both sexes in desperate games
of skill and chance. The theaters, which had never closed their doors even during the worst
periods of terror, were thronged from pit to gallery by a populace that reveled in excitement.
The morality of the hour was no better than the old; for there was a strange mixture of elements
in this new society. The men in power were of every class--a few of the old aristocracy, many
of the wealthy burghers, a certain proportion of the colonial nabobs from the West Indies and
elsewhere, adventurers of every stripe, a few even of the city populace, and some country common
folk. The purchase and sale of the confiscated lands, the national domain which furnished a
slender security for the national debt and depreciated bonds, had enriched thousands of the
vulgar sort. The newly rich lost their balance and their stolidity, becoming as giddy and frivolous
and aggressive as the worst. The ingredients of this queer hodgepodge had yet to learn one
another's language and nature; the niceties of speech, gesture, and mien which once had a well-understood
significance in the higher circles of government and society were all to be readjusted in accordance
with the ideas of the motley crowd and given new conventional currency. In such a disorderly
transition vice does not require the mask of hypocrisy, virtue is helpless because unorganized,
and something like riot characterizes conduct. The sound and rugged goodness of many newcomers,
the habitual respectability of the veterans, were for the moment alike inactive because not
yet kneaded into the lump they had to leaven.

There was, nevertheless, a marvelous exhibition of social power in this heterogeneous mass;
nothing of course proportionate in extent to what had been brought forth for national defense,
but still, of almost if not entirely equal significance. Throughout the revolutionary epoch
there had been much discussion concerning reforms in education. It was in 1794 that Monge finally
succeeded in founding the great Polytechnic School, an institution which clearly corresponded
to a national characteristic, since from that day it has strengthened the natural bias of the
French toward applied science, and tempted them to the undue and unfortunate neglect of many
important humanizing disciplines. The Conservatory of Music and the Institute were permanently
reorganized soon after. The great collections of the Museum of Arts and Crafts (Conservatoire
des Arts et Métiers) were begun, and permanent lecture courses were founded in connection with
the National Library, the Botanical Garden, the Medical School, and other learned institutions.
Almost immediately a philosophical literature began to appear; pictures were painted, and the
theaters reopened with new and tolerable pieces written for the day and place. In the very
midst of war, moreover, an attempt was made to emancipate the press. The effort was ill advised,
and the results were so deplorable for the conduct of affairs that the newspapers were in the
event more firmly muzzled than ever.

When Buonaparte had made his living arrangements, and began to look about, he must have been
stupefied by the hatred for the Convention so generally and openly manifested on every side.
The provinces had looked upon the Revolution as accomplished. Paris was evidently in such ill
humor with the body which represented it that the republic was to all appearance virtually
undone. "Reëlect two thirds of the Convention members to the new legislature!" said the angry
demagogues of the Paris sections. "Never! Those men who, by their own confession, have for
three years in all these horrors been the cowardly tools of a sentiment they could not restrain,
but are now self-styled and reformed moderates! Impossible!" Whether bribed by foreign gold,
and working under the influence of royalists, or by reason of the famine, or through the determination
of the well-to-do to have a radical change, or from all these influences combined, the sections
were gradually organizing for resistance, and it was soon clear that the National Guard was
in sympathy with them. The Convention was equally alert, and began to arm for the conflict.
They already had several hundred artillerymen and five thousand regulars who were imbued with
the national rather that the local spirit; they now began to enlist a special guard of fifteen
hundred from the desperate men who had been the trusty followers of Hébert and Robespierre.
The fighting spirit of the Convention was unquenchable. Having lodged the "two thirds" in the
coming government, they virtually declared war on all enemies internal and external. By their
decree of October twenty-fourth, 1792, they had announced that the natural limits of France
were their goal. Having virtually obtained them, they were now determined to defend them. This
was the legacy of the Convention to the Directory, a legacy which indefinitely prolonged the
Revolution and nullified the new polity from the outset.

For a month or more Buonaparte was a mere onlooker, or at most an interested examiner of events,
weighing and speculating in obscurity much as he had done three years before. The war department
listened to and granted his earnest request that he might remain in Paris until there should
be completed a general reassignment of officers, which had been determined upon, and, as his
good fortune would have it, was already in progress. As the first weeks passed, news arrived
from the south of a reaction in favor of the Jacobins. It became clearer every day that the
Convention had moral support beyond the ramparts of Paris, and within the city it was possible
to maintain something in the nature of a Jacobin salon. Many of that faith who were disaffected
with the new conditions in Paris--the Corsicans in particular--were welcomed at the home of
Mme. Permon by herself and her beautiful daughter, afterward Mme. Junot and Duchess of Abrantès.
Salicetti had chosen the other child, a son now grown, as his private secretary, and was of
course a special favorite in the house. The first manifestation of reviving Jacobin confidence
was shown in the attack made on May twentieth upon the Convention by hungry rioters who shouted
for the constitution of 1793. The result was disastrous to the radicals because the tumult
was quelled by the courage and presence of mind shown by Boissy d'Anglas, a calm and determined
moderate. Commissioned to act alone in provisioning Paris, he bravely accepted his responsibility
and mounted the president's chair in the midst of the tumult to defend himself. The mob brandished
in his face the bloody head of Féraud, a fellow-member of his whom they had just murdered.
The speaker uncovered his head in respect, and his undaunted mien cowed the leaders, who slunk
away, followed by the rabble. The consequence was a total annihilation of the Mountain on May
twenty-second. The Convention committees were disbanded, their artillerymen were temporarily
dismissed, and the constitution of 1793 was abolished.

The friendly home of Mme. Permon was almost the only resort of Buonaparte, who, though disillusioned,
was still a Jacobin. Something like desperation appeared in his manner; the lack of proper
food emaciated his frame, while uncertainty as to the future left its mark on his wan face
and in his restless eyes. It was not astonishing, for his personal and family affairs were
apparently hopeless. His brothers, like himself, had now been deprived of profitable employment;
they, with him, might possibly and even probably soon be numbered among the suspects; destitute
of a powerful patron, and with his family once more in actual want, Napoleon was scarcely fit
in either garb or humor for the society even of his friends. His hostess described him as having
"sharp, angular features; small hands, long and thin; his hair long and disheveled; without
gloves; wearing badly made, badly polished shoes; having always a sickly appearance, which
was the result of his lean and yellow complexion, brightened only by two eyes glistening with
shrewdness and firmness." Bourrienne, who had now returned from diplomatic service, was not
edified by the appearance or temper of his acquaintance, who, he says, "was ill clad and slovenly,
his character cold, often inscrutable. His smile was hollow and often out of place. He had
moments of fierce gaiety which made you uneasy, and indisposed to love him."

No wonder the man was ill at ease. His worst fears were realized when the influence of the
Mountain was wiped out,--Carnot, the organizer of victory, as he had been styled, being the
only one of all the old leaders to escape. Salicetti was too prominent a partizan to be overlooked
by the angry burghers. For a time he was concealed by Mme. Permon in her Paris home. He escaped
the vengeance of his enemies in the disguise of her lackey, flying with her when she left for
the south to seek refuge for herself and children. Even the rank and file among the members
of the Mountain either fled or were arrested. That Buonaparte was unmolested appears to prove
how cleverly he had concealed his connection with them. The story that in these days he proposed
for the hand of Mme. Permon, though without any corroborative evidence, has an air of probability,
partly in the consideration of a despair which might lead him to seek any support, even that
of a wife as old as his mother, partly from the existence of a letter to the lady which, though
enigmatical, displays an interesting mixture of wounded pride and real or pretended jealousy.
The epistle is dated June eighteenth, 1795. He felt that she would think him duped, he explains,
if he did not inform her that although she had not seen fit to give her confidence to him,
he had all along known that she had Salicetti in hiding. Then follows an address to that countryman,
evidently intended to clear the writer from all taint of Jacobinism, and couched in these terms:
"I could have denounced thee, but did not, although it would have been but a just revenge so
to do. Which has chosen the truer part? Go, seek in peace an asylum where thou canst return
to better thoughts of thy country. My lips shall never utter thy name. Repent, and above all,
appreciate my motives. This I deserve, for they are noble and generous." In these words to
the political refugee he employs the familiar republican "thou"; in the peroration, addressed,
like the introduction, to the lady herself, he recurs to the polite and distant "you." "Mme.
Permon, my good wishes go with you as with your child. You are two feeble creatures with no
defense. May Providence and the prayers of a friend be with you. Above all, be prudent and
never remain in the large cities. Adieu. Accept my friendly greetings."[49]

              [Footnote 49: Correspondance, I, No. 40.]

The meaning of this missive is recondite; perhaps it is this: Mme. Permon, I loved you, and
could have ruined the rival who is your protégé with a clear conscience, for he once did me
foul wrong, as he will acknowledge. But farewell. I bear you no grudge. Or else it may announce
another change in the political weather by the veering of the cock. As a good citizen, despising
the horrors of the past, I could have denounced you, Salicetti. I did not, for I recalled old
times and your helplessness, and wished to heap coals of fire on your head, that you might
see the error of your way. The latter interpretation finds support in the complete renunciation
of Jacobinism which the writer made soon afterward, and in his subsequent labored explanation
that in the "Supper of Beaucaire" he had not identified himself with the Jacobin soldier (so
far an exact statement of fact), but had wished only by a dispassionate presentation of facts
to show the hopeless case of Marseilles, and to prevent useless bloodshed.

CHAPTER XXII.

Bonaparte the General of the Convention[50].

              [Footnote 50: For this chapter the Mémoires du roi
              Joseph, I, and Böhtlingk: Napoleon Bonaparte, etc., I,
              are valuable references, in addition to those already
              given. The memoirs of Barras are particularly misleading
              except for comparison. For social conditions, cf.
              Goncourt, Histoire de la Société Française sous le
              Directoire, and in particular Adolph Schmidt: Tableaux
              de la Révolution Française; Pariser Zustände während der
              Revolutionszeit.]

     Disappointments -- Another Furlough -- Connection with
     Barras -- Official Society in Paris -- Buonaparte as a Beau
     -- Condition of His Family -- A Political General -- An
     Opening in Turkey -- Opportunities in Europe -- Social
     Advancement -- Official Degradation -- Schemes for
     Restoration -- Plans of the Royalists -- The Hostility of
     Paris to the Convention -- Buonaparte, General of the
     Convention Troops -- His Strategy.

[Sidenote: 1795.]

The overhauling of the army list with the subsequent reassignment of officers turned out ill
for Buonaparte. Aubry, the head of the committee, appears to have been utterly indifferent
to him, displaying no ill will, and certainly no active good will, toward the sometime Jacobin,
whose name, moreover, was last on the list of artillery officers in the order of seniority.
According to the regulations, when one arm of the service was overmanned, the superfluous officers
were to be transferred to another. This was now the case with the artillery, and Buonaparte,
as a supernumerary, was on June thirteenth again ordered to the west, but this time only as
a mere infantry general of brigade. He appears to have felt throughout life more vindictiveness
toward Aubry, the man whom he believed to have been the author of this particular misfortune,
than toward any other person with whom he ever came in contact. In this rigid scrutiny of the
army list, exaggerated pretensions of service and untruthful testimonials were no longer accepted.
For this reason Joseph also had already lost his position, and was about to settle with his
family in Genoa, while Louis was actually sent back to school, being ordered to Châlons. Poor
Lucien, overwhelmed in the general ruin of the radicals, and with a wife and child dependent
on him, was in despair. The other members of the family were temporarily destitute, but self-helpful.

In this there was nothing new; but, for all that, the monotony of the situation must have been
disheartening. Napoleon's resolution was soon taken. He was either really ill from privation
and disappointment, or soon became so. Armed with a medical certificate, he applied for and
received a furlough. This step having been taken, the next, according to the unchanged and
familiar instincts of the man, was to apply under the law for mileage to pay his expenses on
the journey which he had taken as far as Paris in pursuance of the order given him on March
twenty-ninth to proceed to his post in the west. Again, following the precedents of his life,
he calculated mileage not from Marseilles, whence he had really started, but from Nice, thus
largely increasing the amount which he asked for, and in due time received. During his leave
several projects occupied his busy brain. The most important were a speculation in the sequestered
lands of the emigrants and monasteries, and the writing of two monographs--one a history of
events from the ninth of Fructidor, year II (August twenty-sixth, 1794), to the beginning of
year IV (September twenty-third, 1795), the other a memoir on the Army of Italy. The first
notion was doubtless due to the frenzy for speculation, more and more rife, which was now comparable
only to that which prevailed in France at the time of Law's Mississippi scheme or in England
during the South Sea Bubble. It affords an insight into financial conditions to know that a
gold piece of twenty francs was worth seven hundred and fifty in paper. A project for purchasing
a certain property as a good investment for his wife's dowry was submitted to Joseph, but it
failed by the sudden repeal of the law under which such purchases were made. The two themes
were both finished, and another, "A Study in Politics: being an Inquiry into the Causes of
Troubles and Discords," was sketched, but never completed. The memoir on the Army of Italy
was virtually the scheme for offensive warfare which he laid before the younger Robespierre;
it was now revised, and sent to the highest military power--the new central committee appointed
as a substitute for the Committee of Safety. These occupations were all very well, but the
furlough was rapidly expiring, and nothing had turned up. Most opportunely, the invalid had
a relapse, and was able to secure an extension of leave until August fourth, the date on which
a third of the committee on the reassignment of officers would retire, among them the hated Aubry.

Speaking at St. Helena of these days, he said: "I lived in the Paris streets without employment.
I had no social habits, going only into the set at the house of Barras, where I was well received....
I was there because there was nothing to be had elsewhere. I attached myself to Barras because
I knew no one else. Robespierre was dead; Barras was playing a rôle: I had to attach myself
to somebody and something." It will not be forgotten that Barras and Fréron had been Dantonists
when they were at the siege of Toulon with Buonaparte. After the events of Thermidor they had
forsworn Jacobinism altogether, and were at present in alliance with the moderate elements
of Paris society. Barras's rooms in the Luxembourg were the center of all that was gay and
dazzling in that corrupt and careless world. They were, as a matter of course, the resort of
the most beautiful and brilliant women, influential, but not over-scrupulous. Mme. Tallien,
who has been called "the goddess of Thermidor," was the queen of the coterie; scarcely less
beautiful and gracious were the widow Beauharnais and Mme. Récamier. Barras had been a noble;
the instincts of his class made him a delightful host.

What Napoleon saw and experienced he wrote to the faithful Joseph. The letters are a truthful
transcript of his emotions, the key-note of which is admiration for the Paris women. "Carriages
and the gay world reappear, or rather no more recall as after a long dream that they have ever
ceased to glitter. Readings, lecture courses in history, botany, astronomy, etc., follow one
another. Everything is here collected to amuse and render life agreeable; you are taken out
of your thoughts; how can you have the blues in this intensity of purpose and whirling turmoil?
The women are everywhere, at the play, on the promenades, in the libraries. In the scholar's
study you find very charming persons. Here only of all places in the world they deserve to
hold the helm: the men are mad about them, think only of them, and live only by means of their
influence. A woman needs six months in Paris to know what is her due and what is her sphere."[51]
As yet he had not met Mme. Beauharnais. The whole tone of the correspondence is cheerful, and
indicates that Buonaparte's efforts for a new alliance had been successful, that his fortunes
were looking up, and that the giddy world contained something of uncommon interest. As his
fortunes improved, he grew more hopeful, and appeared more in society. On occasion he even
ventured upon little gallantries. Presented to Mme. Tallien, he was frequently seen at her
receptions. He was at first shy and reserved, but time and custom put him more at his ease.
One evening, as little groups were gradually formed for the interchange of jest and repartee,
he seemed to lose his timidity altogether, and, assuming the mien of a fortune-teller, caught
his hostess's hand, and poured out a long rigmarole of nonsense which much amused the rest
of the circle.

              [Footnote 51: Napoleon to Joseph, July, 1795; in Du
              Casse: Les rois frères de Napoléon, 8, and in Jung, III,
              41.]

These months had also improved the situation of the family. His mother and younger sisters
were somehow more comfortable in their Marseilles home. Strange doings were afterward charged
against them, but it is probable that these stories are without other foundation than spite.
Napoleon had received a considerable sum for mileage, nearly twenty-seven hundred francs, and,
good son as he always was, it is likely that he shared the money with his family. Both Elisa
and the little Pauline now had suitors. Fesch, described by Lucien as "ever fresh, not like
a rose, but like a good radish," was comfortably waiting at Aix in the house of old acquaintances
for a chance to return to Corsica. Joseph's arrangements for moving to Genoa were nearly complete,
and Louis was comfortably settled at school in Châlons. "Brutus" Lucien was the only luckless
wight of the number: his fears had been realized, and, having been denounced as a Jacobin,
he was now lying terror-stricken in the prison of Aix, and all about him men of his stripe
were being executed.

On August fifth the members of the new Committee of Safety finally entered on their duties.
Almost the first document presented at the meeting was Buonaparte's demand for restoration
to his rank in the artillery. It rings with indignation, and abounds with loose statements
about his past services, boldly claiming the honors of the last short but successful Italian
campaign. The paper was referred to the proper authorities, and, a fortnight later, its writer
received peremptory orders to join his corps in the west. What could be more amusingly characteristic
of this persistent man than to read, in a letter to Joseph under date of the following day,
August twentieth: "I am attached at this moment to the topographical bureau of the Committee
of Safety for the direction of the armies in Carnot's place. If I wish, I can be sent to Turkey
by the government as general of artillery, with a good salary and a splendid title, to organize
the artillery of the Grand Turk." Then follow plans for Joseph's appointment to the consular
service, for a meeting at Leghorn, and for a further land speculation. At the close are these
remarks, which not only exhibit great acuteness of observation, but are noteworthy as displaying
a permanent quality of the man, that of always having an alternative in readiness: "It is quiet,
but storms are gathering, perhaps; the primaries are going to meet in a few days. I shall take
with me five or six officers.... The commission and decree of the Committee of Safety, which
employs me in the duty of directing the armies and plans of campaign, being most flattering
to me, I fear they will no longer allow me to go to Turkey. We shall see. I may have on hand
a campaign to-day.... Write always as if I were going to Turkey."

This was all half true. By dint of soliciting Barras and Doulcet de Pontécoulant, another well-wisher,
both men of influence, and by importuning Fréron, then at the height of his power, but soon
to display a ruinous incapacity, Buonaparte had actually been made a member of the commission
of four which directed the armies, and Dutot had been sent in his stead to the west. Moreover,
there was likewise a chance for realizing those dreams of achieving glory in the Orient which
had haunted him from childhood. At this moment there was a serious tension in the politics
of eastern Europe, and the French saw an opportunity to strike Austria on the other side by
an alliance with Turkey. The latter country was of course entirely unprepared for war, and
asked for the appointment of a French commission to reconstruct its gun-foundries and to improve
its artillery service. Buonaparte, having learned the fact, had immediately prepared two memorials,
one on the Turkish artillery, and another on the means of strengthening Turkish power against
the encroachments of European monarchies. These he sent up with an application that he should
be appointed head of the commission, inclosing also laudatory certificates of his uncommon
ability from Doulcet and from Debry, a newly made friend.

But the vista of an Eastern career temporarily vanished. The new constitution, adopted, as
already stated, on August twenty-second, could not become operative until after the elections.
On August thirty-first Buonaparte's plan for the conduct of the coming Italian campaign was
read by the Convention committee, found satisfactory, and adopted. It remains in many respects
the greatest of all Napoleon's military papers, its only fault being that no genius inferior
to his own could carry it out. At intervals some strategic authority revives the charge that
this plan was bodily appropriated from the writings of Maillebois, the French general who led
his army to disaster in Italy during 1746. There is sufficient evidence that Buonaparte read
Maillebois, and any reader may see the resemblances of the two plans. But the differences,
at first sight insignificant, are as vital as the differences of character in the two men.
Like the many other charges of plagiarism brought against Napoleon by pedants, this one overlooks
the difference between mediocrity and genius in the use of materials. It is not at all likely
that the superiors of Buonaparte were ignorant of the best books concerning the invasion of
Italy or of their almost contemporary history. They brought no charges of plagiarism for the
excellent reason that there is none, and they were impressed by the suggestions of their general.
It is even possible that Buonaparte formed his plan before reading Maillebois. Volney declared
he had heard it read and commentated by its author shortly after his return from Genoa and
Nice.[52] The great scholar was already as profoundly impressed as a year later Carnot, and
now the war commission. A few days later the writer and author of the plan became aware of
the impression he had made: it seemed clear that he had a reality in hand worth every possibility
in the Orient. He therefore wrote to Joseph that he was going to remain in Paris, explaining,
as if incidentally, that he could thus be on the lookout for any desirable vacancy in the consular
service, and secure it, if possible, for him.

              [Footnote 52: Chaptal: Mes souvenirs sur Napoléon, p.
              198.]

Dreams of another kind had supplanted in his mind all visions of Oriental splendor; for in
subsequent letters to the same correspondent, written almost daily, he unfolds a series of
rather startling schemes, which among other things include a marriage, a town house, and a
country residence, with a cabriolet and three horses. How all this was to come about we cannot
entirely discover. The marriage plan is clearly stated. Joseph had wedded one of the daughters
of a comparatively wealthy merchant. He was requested to sound his brother-in-law concerning
the other, the famous Désirée Clary, who afterward became Mme. Bernadotte. Two of the horses
were to be supplied by the government in place of a pair which he might be supposed to have
possessed at Nice in accordance with the rank he then held, and to have sold, according to
orders, when sent on the maritime expedition to Corsica. Where the third horse and the money
for the houses were to come from is inscrutable; but, as a matter of fact, Napoleon had already
left his shabby lodgings for better ones in Michodière street, and was actually negotiating
for the purchase of a handsome detached residence near that of Bourrienne, whose fortunes had
also been retrieved. The country-seat which the speculator had in view, and for which he intended
to bid as high as a million and a half of francs, was knocked down to another purchaser for
three millions or, as the price of gold then was, about forty thousand dollars! So great a
personage as he now was must, of course, have a secretary, and the faithful Junot had been
appointed to the office.

The application for the horses turned out a serious matter, and brought the adventurer once
more to the verge of ruin. The story he told was not plain, the records did not substantiate
it, the hard-headed officials of the war department evidently did not believe a syllable of
his representations,--which, in fact, were untruthful,--and, the central committee having again
lost a third of its members by rotation, among them Doulcet, there was no one now in it to
plead Buonaparte's cause. Accordingly there was no little talk about the matter in very influential
circles, and almost simultaneously was issued the report concerning his formal request for
restoration, which had been delayed by the routine prescribed in such cases, and was only now
completed. It was not only adverse in itself, but contained a confidential inclosure animadverting
severely on the irregularities of the petitioner's conduct, and in particular on his stubborn
refusal to obey orders and join the Army of the West. Thus it happened that on September fifteenth
the name of Buonaparte was officially struck from the list of general officers on duty, "in
view of his refusal to proceed to the post assigned him." It really appeared as if the name
of Napoleon might almost have been substituted for that of Tantalus in the fable. But it was
the irony of fate that on this very day the subcommittee on foreign affairs submitted to the
full meeting a proposition to send the man who was now a disgraced culprit in great state and
with a full suite to take service at Constantinople in the army of the Grand Turk!

No one had ever understood better than Buonaparte the possibilities of political influence
in a military career. Not only could he bend the bow of Achilles, but he always had ready an
extra string. Thus far in his ten years of service he had been promoted only once according
to routine; the other steps of the height which he had reached had been secured either by some
startling exhibition of ability or by influence or chicane. He had been first Corsican and
then French, first a politician and then a soldier. Such a veteran was not to be dismayed even
by the most stunning blow; had he not even now three powerful protectors--Barras, Tallien,
and Fréron? He turned his back, therefore, with ready adaptability on the unsympathetic officials
of the army, the mere soldiers with cool heads and merciless judgment. The evident short cut
to restoration was to carry through the project of employment at Constantinople; it had been
formally recommended, and to secure its adoption he renewed his importunate solicitations.
His rank he still held; he might hope to regain position by some brilliant stroke such as he
could execute only without the restraint of orders and on his own initiative. His hopes grew,
or seemed to, as his suit was not rejected, and he wrote to Joseph on September twenty-sixth
that the matter of his departure was urgent; adding, however: "But at this moment there are
some ebullitions and incendiary symptoms." He was right in both surmises. The Committee of
Safety was formally considering the proposition for his transfer to the Sultan's service, while
simultaneously affairs both in Paris and on the frontiers alike were "boiling."

Meantime the royalists and clericals had not been idle. They had learned nothing from the events
of the Revolution, and did not even dimly understand their own position. Their own allies repudiated
both their sentiments and their actions in the very moments when they believed themselves to
be honorably fighting for self-preservation. English statesmen like Granville and Harcourt
now thought and said that it was impossible to impose on France a form of government distasteful
to her people; but the British regent and the French pretender, who, on the death of his unfortunate
nephew, the dauphin, had been recognized by the powers as Louis XVIII, were stubbornly united
under the old Bourbon motto, "All or nothing." The change in the Convention, in Paris society,
even in the country itself, which was about to desert its extreme Jacobinism and to adopt the
new constitution by an overwhelming vote--all this deceived them, and they determined to strike
for everything they had lost. Preparations, it is now believed, were all ready for an inroad
from the Rhine frontier, for Pichegru to raise the white flag and to advance with his troops
on Paris, and for a simultaneous rising of the royalists in every French district. On October
fourth an English fleet had appeared on the northern shore of France, having on board the Count
of Artois and a large body of emigrants, accompanied by a powerful force of English, composed
in part of regulars, in part of volunteers. This completed the preliminary measures.

With the first great conflict in the struggle, avowed royalism had only an indirect connection.
By this time the Paris sections were thoroughly reorganized, having purged themselves of the
extreme democratic elements from the suburbs. They were well drilled, well armed, and enthusiastic
for resistance to the decree of the Convention requiring the compulsory reëlection of the "two
thirds" from its existing membership. The National Guard was not less embittered against that
measure. There were three experienced officers then in Paris who were capable of leading an
insurrection, and could be relied on to oppose the Convention. These were Danican, Duhoux d'Hauterive,
and Laffont, all royalists at heart; the last was an emigrant, and avowed it. The Convention
had also by this time completed its enlistment, and had taken other measures of defense; but
it was without a trustworthy person to command its forces, for among the fourteen generals
of the republic then present in Paris, only two were certainly loyal to the Convention, and
both these were men of very indifferent character and officers of no capacity.

The Convention forces were technically a part of the army known as that of the interior, of
which Menou was the commander. The new constitution having been formally proclaimed on September
twenty-third, the signs of open rebellion in Paris became too clear to be longer disregarded,
and on that night a mass meeting of the various sections was held in the Odéon theater in order
to prepare plans for open resistance. That of Lepelletier, in the heart of Paris, comprising
the wealthiest and most influential of the mercantile class, afterward assembled in its hall
and issued a call to rebellion. These were no contemptible foes: on the memorable tenth of
August, theirs had been the battalion of the National Guard which died with the Swiss in defense
of the Tuileries. Menou, in obedience to the command of the Convention to disarm the insurgent
sections, confronted them for a moment. But the work was not to his taste. After a short parley,
during which he feebly recommended them to disperse and behave like good citizens, he withdrew
his forces to their barracks, and left the armed and angry sections masters of the situation.
Prompt and energetic measures were more necessary than ever. For some days already the Convention
leaders had been discussing their plans. Carnot and Tallien finally agreed with Barras that
the man most likely to do thoroughly the active work was Buonaparte. But, apparently, they
dared not altogether trust him, for Barras himself was appointed commander-in-chief. His "little
Corsican officer, who will not stand on ceremony," as he called him, was to be nominally lieutenant.
On October fourth Buonaparte was summoned to a conference. The messengers sought him at his
lodgings and in all his haunts, but could not find him. It was nine in the evening when he
appeared at headquarters in the Place du Carrousel. This delay gave Barras a chance to insinuate
that his ardent republican friend, who all the previous week had been eagerly soliciting employment,
was untrustworthy in the crisis, and had been negotiating with the sectionaries. Buonaparte
reported himself as having come from the section of Lepelletier, but as having been reconnoitering
the enemy. After a rather tart conversation, Barras appointed him aide-de-camp, the position
for which he had been destined from the first. Whatever was the general's understanding of
the situation, that of the aide was clear--that he was to be his own master.[53]

              [Footnote 53: My account of this momentous crisis in
              Buonaparte's life was written after a careful study of
              all the authorities and accounts as far as known. The
              reader will find in the monograph, Zivy: Le treize
              Vendémiaire, many reprints of documents and certain
              conclusions drawn from them. The result is good as far
              as it goes, but, like all history written from public
              papers solely, it is incomplete. Buonaparte was only one
              of seven generals appointed to serve under Barras. It
              seems likewise true that his exploits did not bring him
              into general notice, for Mallet du Pan speaks of him as
              a "Corsican terrorist" and Rémusat records her mother's
              amazement that a man so little known should have made so
              good a marriage. But, on the other hand, Thiébault
              declares that Buonaparte's activities impressed every
              one, Barras's labored effort is suspicious, and then, as
              at Toulon, there are the results. Some people in power
              gave him credit, for they bestowed on him an
              extraordinary reward. Then, too, why should we utterly
              discard Buonaparte's own evidence, which corroborates,
              at least as far as the text goes, the evidence drawn
              from other sources?]

Not a moment was lost, and throughout the night most vigorous and incessant preparation was
made. Buonaparte was as much himself in the streets of Paris as in those of Ajaccio, except
that his energy was proportionately more feverish, as the defense of the Tuileries and the
riding-school attached to it, in which the Convention sat, was a grander task than the never-accomplished
capture of the Corsican citadel. The avenues and streets of a city somewhat resemble the main
and tributary valleys of a mountain-range, and the task of campaigning in Paris was less unlike
that of manoeuvering in the narrow gorges of the Apennines than might be supposed; at least
Buonaparte's strategy was nearly identical for both. All his measures were masterly. The foe,
scattered as yet throughout Paris on both sides of the river, was first cut in two by seizing
and fortifying the bridges across the Seine; then every avenue of approach was likewise guarded,
while flanking artillery was set in the narrow streets to command the main arteries. Thanks
to Barras's suggestion, the dashing, reckless, insubordinate Murat, who first appears at the
age of twenty-seven on the great stage in these events, had under Buonaparte's orders brought
in the cannon from the camp of Sablons. These in the charge of a ready artillerist were invaluable,
as the event proved. Finally a reserve, ready for use on either side of the river, was established
in what is now the Place de la Concorde, with an open line of retreat toward St. Cloud behind
it. Every order was issued in Barras's name, and Barras, in his memoirs, claims all the honors
of the day. He declares that his aide was afoot, while he was the man on horseback, ubiquitous
and masterful. He does not even admit that Buonaparte bestrode a cab-horse, as even the vanquished
were ready to acknowledge. The sections, of course, knew nothing of the new commander or of
Buonaparte, and recalled only Menou's pusillanimity. Without cannon and without a plan, they
determined to drive out the Convention at once, and to overwhelm its forces by superior numbers.
The quays of the left bank were therefore occupied by a large body of the National Guard, ready
to rush in from behind when the main attack, made from the north through the labyrinth of streets
and blind alleys then designated by the name of St. Honoré, and by the short, wide passage
of l'Échelle, should draw the Convention forces away in that direction to resist it. A kind
of rendezvous had been appointed at the church of St. Roch, which was to be used as a depot
of supplies and a retreat. Numerous sectionaries were, in fact, posted there as auxiliaries
at the crucial instant.

CHAPTER XXIII.

The Day of the Paris Sections.

     The Warfare of St. Roch and the Pont Royal -- Order Restored
     -- Meaning of the Conflict -- Political Dangers --
     Buonaparte's Dilemma -- His True Attitude -- Sudden Wealth
     -- The Directory and Their General -- Buonaparte in Love --
     His Corsican Temperament -- His Matrimonial Adventures.

[Sidenote: 1795.]

In this general position the opposing forces confronted each other on the morning of October
fifth, the thirteenth of Vendémiaire. In point of numbers the odds were tremendous, for the
Convention forces numbered only about four thousand regulars and a thousand volunteers, while
the sections' force comprised about twenty-eight thousand National Guards. But the former were
disciplined, they had cannon, and they were desperately able; and there was no distracted,
vacillating leadership. What the legend attributes to Napoleon Buonaparte as his commentary
on the conduct of King Louis at the Tuileries was to be the Convention's ideal now. The "man
on horseback" and the hot fire of cannon were to carry the day. Both sides seemed loath to
begin. But at half-past four in the afternoon it was clear that the decisive moment had come.
As if by instinct, but in reality at Danican's signal, the forces of the sections from the
northern portion of the capital began to pour through the narrow main street of St. Honoré,
behind the riding-school, toward the chief entrance of the Tuileries. They no doubt felt safer
in the rear of the Convention hall, with the high walls of houses all about, than they would
have done in the open spaces which they would have had to cross in order to attack it from
the front. Just before their compacted mass reached the church of St. Roch, it was brought
to a halt. Suddenly becoming aware that in the side streets on the right were yawning the muzzles
of hostile cannon, the excited citizens lost their heads, and began to discharge their muskets.
Then with a swift, sudden blast, the street was cleared by a terrible discharge of the canister
and grape-shot with which the field-pieces of Barras and Buonaparte were loaded. The action
continued about an hour, for the people and the National Guard rallied again and again, each
time to be mowed down by a like awful discharge. At last they could be rallied no longer, and
retreated to the church, which they held. On the left bank a similar mêlée ended in a similar
way. Three times Laffont gathered his forces and hurled them at the Pont Royal; three times
they were swept back by the cross-fire of artillery. The scene then changed like the vanishing
of a mirage. Awe-stricken messengers appeared, hurrying everywhere with the prostrating news
from both sides of the river, and the entire Parisian force withdrew to shelter. Before nightfall
the triumph of the Convention was complete. The dramatic effect of this achievement was heightened
by the appearance on horseback here, there, and everywhere, during the short hour of battle,
of an awe-inspiring leader; both before and after, he was unseen. In spite of Barras's claims,
there can be no doubt that this dramatic personage was Buonaparte. If not, for what was he
so signally rewarded in the immediate sequel? Barras was no artillerist, and this was the appearance
of an expert giving masterly lessons in artillery practice to an astonished world, which little
dreamed what he was yet to demonstrate as to the worth of his chosen arm on wider battle-fields.
For the moment it suited Buonaparte to appear merely as an agent. In his reports of the affair
his own name is kept in the background. It is evident that from first to last he intended to
produce the impression that, though acting with Jacobins, he does so because they for the time
represent the truth: he is not for that reason to be identified with them.

Thus by the "whiff of grape-shot" what the wizard historian of the time "specifically called
the French Revolution" was not "blown into space" at all. Though there was no renewal of the
reign of terror, yet the Jacobins retained their power and the Convention lived on under the
name of the Directory. It continued to live on in its own stupid anarchical way until the "man
on horseback" of the thirteenth Vendémiaire had established himself as the first among French
generals and the Jacobins had rendered the whole heart of France sick. While the events of
October twenty-fifth were a bloody triumph for the Convention, only a few conspicuous leaders
of the rebels were executed, among them Laffont; and harsh measures were enacted in relation
to the political status of returned emigrants. But in the main an unexpected mercy controlled
the Convention's policy. They closed the halls in which the people of the mutinous wards had
met, and once more reorganized the National Guard. Order was restored without an effort. Beyond
the walls of Paris the effect of the news was magical. Artois, afterward Charles X, though
he had landed three days before on Île Dieu, now reëmbarked, and sailed back to England, while
the other royalist leaders prudently held their followers in check and their measures in abeyance.
The new constitution was in a short time offered to the nation, and accepted by an overwhelming
majority; the members of the Convention were assured of their ascendancy in the new legislature;
and before long the rebellion in Vendée and Brittany was so far crushed as to release eighty
thousand troops for service abroad. For the leaders of its forces the Convention made a most
liberal provision: the division commanders of the thirteenth of Vendémiaire were all promoted.
Buonaparte was made second in command of the Army of the Interior: in other words, was confirmed
in an office which, though informally, he had both created and rendered illustrious. As Barras
almost immediately resigned, this was equivalent to very high promotion.

This memorable "day of the sections," as it is often called, was an unhallowed day for France
and French liberty. It was the first appearance of the army since the Revolution as a support
to political authority; it was the beginning of a process which made the commander-in-chief
of the army the dictator of France. All purely political powers were gradually to vanish in
order to make way for a military state. The temporary tyranny of the Convention rested on a
measure, at least, of popular consent; but in the very midst of its preparations to perpetuate
a purely civil and political administration, the violence of the sections had compelled it
to confide the new institutions to the keeping of soldiers. The idealism of the new constitution
was manifest from the beginning. Every chance which the Directory had for success was dependent,
not on the inherent worth of the system or its adaptability to present conditions, but on the
support of interested men in power; among these the commanders of the army were not the least
influential. After the suppression of the sections, the old Convention continued to sit under
the style of the Primary Assembly, and was occupied in selecting those of its members who were
to be returned to the legislature under the new constitution. There being no provision for
any interim government, the exercise of real power was suspended; the elections were a mere
sham; the magistracy was a house swept and garnished, ready for the first comer to occupy it.

As the army and not the people had made the coming administration possible, the executive power
would from the first be the creature of the army; and since under the constitutional provisions
there was no legal means of compromise between the Directory and the legislature in case of
conflict, so that the stronger would necessarily crush the weaker, the armed power supporting
the directors must therefore triumph in the end, and the man who controlled that must become
the master of the Directory and the ruler of the country. Moreover, a people can be free only
when the first and unquestioning devotion of every citizen is not to a party, but to his country
and its constitution, his party allegiance being entirely secondary. This was far from being
the case in France: the nation was divided into irreconcilable camps, not of constitutional
parties, but of violent partizans; many even of the moderate republicans now openly expressed
a desire for some kind of monarchy. Outwardly the constitution was the freest so far devised.
It contained, however, three fatal blunders which rendered it the best possible tool for a
tyrant: it could not be changed for a long period; there was no arbiter but force between a
warring legislative and executive; the executive was now supported by the army.

It is impossible to prove that Buonaparte understood all this at the time. When at St. Helena
he spoke as if he did; but unfortunately his later writings, however valuable from the psychological,
are worthless from the historical, standpoint. They abound in misrepresentations which are
in part due to lapse of time and weakness of memory, in part to wilful intention. Wishing the
Robespierre-Salicetti episode of his life to be forgotten, he strives in his memoirs to create
the impression that the Convention had ordered him to take charge of the artillery at Toulon,
when in fact he was in Marseilles as a mere passer-by on his journey to Nice, and in Toulon
as a temporary adjunct to the army of Carteaux, having been made an active participant partly
through accident, partly by the good will of personal friends. In the same way he also devised
a fable about the "day of the sections," in order that he might not appear to have been scheming
for himself in the councils of the Convention, and that Barras's share in his elevation might
be consigned to oblivion. This story of Napoleon's has come down in three stages of its development,
by as many different transcribers, who heard it at different times. The final one, as given
by Las Cases, was corrected by Napoleon's own hand.[54] It runs as follows: On the night of
October third he was at the theater, but hearing that Menou had virtually retreated before
the wards, and was to be arrested, he left and went to the meeting of the Convention, where,
as he stood among the spectators, he heard his own name mentioned as Menou's successor. For
half an hour he deliberated what he should do if chosen. If defeated, he would be execrated
by all coming generations, while victory would be almost odious. How could he deliberately
become the scapegoat of so many crimes to which he had been an utter stranger? Why go as an
avowed Jacobin and in a few hours swell the list of names uttered with horror? "On the other
hand, if the Convention be crushed, what becomes of the great truths of our Revolution? Our
many victories, our blood so often shed, are all nothing but shameful deeds. The foreigner
we have so thoroughly conquered triumphs and overwhelms us with his contempt; an incapable
race, an overbearing and unnatural following, reappear triumphant, throw up our crime to us,
wreak their vengeance, and govern us like helots by the hand of a stranger. Thus the defeat
of the Convention would crown the brow of the foreigner, and seal the disgrace and slavery
of our native land." Such thoughts, his youth, trust in his own power and in his destiny, turned
the balance.

              [Footnote 54: Mémorial de Sainte Hélène, II, 246.]

Statements made under such circumstances are not proof; but there is this much probability
of truth in them, that if we imagine the old Buonaparte in disgrace as of old, following as
of old the promptings of his curiosity, indifferent as of old to the success of either principle,
and by instinct a soldier as of old,--if we recall him in this character, and remember that
he is no longer a youthful Corsican patriot, but a mature cosmopolitan consumed with personal
ambition,--we may surely conclude that he was perfectly impartial as to the parties involved,
leaned toward the support of the principles of the Revolution as he understood them, and saw
in the complications of the hour a probable opening for his ambition. At any rate, his conduct
after October fourth seems to uphold this view. He was a changed man, ardent, hopeful, and
irrepressible, as he had ever been when lucky; but now, besides, daring, overbearing, and self-confident
to a degree which those characteristic qualities had never reached before.

His first care was to place on a footing of efficiency the Army of the Interior, scattered
in many departments, undisciplined and disorganized; the next, to cow into submission all the
low elements in Paris, still hungry and fierce, by reorganizing the National Guard, and forming
a picked troop for the special protection of the legislature; the next, to show himself as
the powerful friend of every one in disgrace, as a man of the world without rancor or exaggerated
partizanship. At the same time he plunged into speculation, and sent sums incredibly large
to various members of his family, a single remittance of four hundred thousand francs being
mentioned in his letters. Lucien was restored to the arms of his low-born but faithful and
beloved wife, and sent to join his mother and sisters in Marseilles; Louis was brought from
Châlons, and made a lieutenant; Jerome was put at school in Paris; and to Joseph a consular
post was assured. Putting aside all bashfulness, General Buonaparte became a full-fledged society
man and a beau. No social rank was now strange to him; the remnants of the old aristocracy,
the wealthy citizens of Paris, the returning Girondists, many of whom had become pronounced
royalists, the new deputies, the officers who in some turn of the wheel had, like himself,
lost their positions, but were now, through his favor, reinstated--all these he strove to court,
flatter, and make his own.

Such activity, of course, could not pass unnoticed. The new government had been constituted
without disturbance, the Directory chosen, and the legislature installed. Of the five directors--Barras,
Rewbell, Carnot, Letourneaux de la Manche, and Larévellière-Lépeaux,--all had voted for the
death of Louis XVI, and were so-called regicides; but, while varying widely in character and
ability, they were all, excepting Barras, true to their convictions. They scarcely understood
how strong the revulsion of popular feeling had been, and, utterly ignoring the impossibility
of harmonious action among themselves, hoped to exercise their power with such moderation as
to win all classes to the new constitution. They were extremely disturbed by the course of
the general commanding their army in seeking intimacy with men of all opinions, but were unwilling
to interpret it aright. Under the Convention, the Army of the Interior had been a tool, its
commander a mere puppet; now the executive was confronted by an independence which threatened
a reversal of rôles. This situation was the more disquieting because Buonaparte was a capable
and not unwilling police officer. Among many other invaluable services to the government, he
closed in person the great club of the Panthéon, which was the rallying-point of the disaffected.[55]
Throughout another winter of famine there was not a single dangerous outbreak. At the same
time there were frequent manifestations of jealousy in lower circles, especially among those
who knew the origin and career of their young master.

              [Footnote 55: This important exploit has been
              questioned. But see the American edition of Martin's
              History of France, II, 16. Baboeuf reopened at the
              Panthéon the club which had been closed at the Évêché by
              the Convention and reorganized a secret society in
              connection with it. This Panthéon club was shut by
              Napoleon in person on February 26, 1796. See likewise
              the Mémorial, II, 257, 258.]

Toward the close of the year the bearing and behavior of the general became constrained, reserved,
and awkward. Various reasons were assigned for this demeanor. Many thought it was due to a
consciousness of social deficiency, and his detractors still declare that Paris life was too
fierce for even his self-assurance, pointing to the change in his handwriting and grammar,
to his alternate silence and loquacity, as proof of mental uneasiness; to his sullen musings
and coarse threats as a theatrical affectation to hide wounded pride; and to his coming marriage
as a desperate shift to secure a social dignity proportionate to the career he saw opening
before him in politics and war. In a common man not subjected to a microscopic examination,
such conduct would be attributed to his being in love; the wedding would ordinarily be regarded
as the natural and beautiful consequence of a great passion.

Men have not forgotten that Buonaparte once denounced love as a hurtful passion from which
God should protect his creatures; and they have, for this, among other reasons, pronounced
him incapable of disinterested affection. But it is also true that he likewise denounced Buttafuoco
for having, among other crimes committed by him, "married to extend his influence"; and we
are forced to ask which of the two sentiments is genuine and characteristic. Probably both
and neither, according to the mood of the man. Outward caprice is, in great natures, often
the mask of inward perseverance, especially among the unprincipled who suit their language
to their present purpose, in fine disdain of commonplace consistency. The primitive Corsican
was both rude and gentle, easily moved to tears at one time, insensate at another; selfish
at one moment, lavish at another; and yet he had a consistent character. Although disliking
in later life to be called a Corsican, Napoleon was nevertheless typical of his race: he could
despise love, yet render himself its willing slave; he was fierce and dictatorial, yet, as
the present object of his passion said, "tenderer and weaker than anybody dreamed.