But let us press the history of Jones and Robinson a step further. The next event in the latter's
criminal history is his appearance in court before a magistrate. Jones produces his evidence
and calls his witnesses. Robinson, through his learned counsel, cross-examines them and then
summons his own witnesses to prove his innocence. The proceeding may take several days or perhaps
weeks. Briefs are submitted. The magistrate considers the testimony and finally decides that
he believes Robinson guilty and must hold him for the action of the grand jury. You might now,
it would perhaps seem, have some reason for suspecting that Robinson was not all that he should
be. But no! He is still presumed in the eyes of the law, and theoretically in the eyes of his
fellows, to be as innocent as a babe unborn. And now the grand jury take up and sift the evidence
that has already been gone over by the police judge. They, too, call witnesses and take additional
testimony. They likewise are convinced of Robinson's guilt and straightway hand down an indictment
accusing him of the crime. A bench warrant issues. The defendant is run to earth and ignominiously
haled to court. But he is still presumed to be innocent! Does not the law say so? And is not
this a "government of laws"? Finally, the district attorney, who is not looking for any more
work than is absolutely necessary, investigates the case, decides that it must be tried and
begins to prepare it for trial. As the facts develop themselves Robinson's guilt becomes more
and more clear. The unfortunate defendant is given any opportunity he may desire to explain
away the charge, but to no purpose.

The district attorney knows Robinson is guilty, and so does everybody else, including Robinson.
At last this presumably innocent man is brought to the bar for trial. The jury scan his hang-dog
countenance upon which guilt is plainly written. They contrast his appearance with that of
the honest Jones. They know he has been accused, held by a magistrate, indicted by a grand
jury, and that his case, after careful scrutiny, has been pressed for trial by the public prosecutor.
Do they really presume him innocent? Of course not. They presume him guilty. "So soon as I
see him come through dot leetle door in the back of the room, then I know he's guilty!" as
the foreman said in the old story. What good does the presumption of innocence, so called,
do for the miserable Robinson? None whatever--save perhaps to console him in the long days
pending his trial. But such a legal hypocrisy could never have deceived anybody. How much better
it would be to cast aside all such cant and frankly admit that the attitude of the continental
law toward the man under arrest is founded upon common sense and the experience of mankind.
If he is the wrong man it should not be difficult for him to demonstrate the fact. At any rate
circumstances are against him, and he should be anxious to explain them away if he can.

The fact of the matter is, that in dealing with practical conditions, police methods differ
very little in different countries. The authorities may perhaps keep considerably more detailed
"tabs" on people in Europe than in the United States, but if they are once caught in a compromising
position they experience about the same treatment wherever they happen to be. In France (and
how the apostles of liberty condemn the iniquity of the administration of criminal justice
in that country!) the suspect or undesirable receives a polite official call or note, in which
he is invited to leave the locality as soon as convenient. In New York he is arrested by a
plainclothes man, yanked down to Mulberry Street for the night, and next afternoon is thrust
down the gangplank of a just departing Fall River liner. Many an inspector has earned unstinted
praise (even from the New York Evening Post) by "clearing New York of crooks" or having a sort
of "round-up" of suspicious characters whom, after proper identification, he has ejected from
the city by the shortest and quickest possible route. Yet in the case of every person thus
arrested and driven out of the town he has undoubtedly violated constitutional rights and taken
the law into his own hands.

What redress can a penniless tramp secure against a stout inspector of police able and willing
to spend a considerable sum of money in his own defence, and with the entire force ready and
eager to get at the tramp and put him out of business? He swallows his pride, if he has any,
and ruefully slinks out of town for a period of enforced abstinence from the joys of metropolitan
existence. Yet who shall say that, in spite of the fact that it is a theoretic outrage upon
liberty, this cleaning out of the city is not highly desirable? One or two comparatively innocent
men may be caught in the ruck, but they generally manage to intimate to the police that the
latter have "got them wrong" and duly make their escape. The others resume their tramp from
city to city, clothed in the presumption of their innocence.

Since the days of the Doges or of the Spanish Inquisition there has never been anything like
the morning inspection or "line up" of arrested suspects at the New York police head-quarters.*
(*Now abolished.) One by one the unfortunate persons arrested during the previous night (although
not charged with any crime) are pointed out to the assembled detective force, who scan them
from beneath black velvet masks in order that they themselves may not be recognized when they
meet again on Broadway or the darker side streets of the city. Each prisoner is described and
his character and past performances are rehearsed by the inspector or head of the bureau. He
is then measured, "mugged," and, if lucky, turned loose. What does his liberty amount to or
his much-vaunted legal rights if the city is to be made safe? Yet why does not some apostle
of liberty raise his voice and cry aloud concerning the wrong that has been done? Are not the
rights of a beggar as sacred as those of a bishop?

One of the most sacred rights guaranteed under the law is that of not being compelled to give
evidence against ourselves or to testify to anything which might degrade or incriminate us.
Now, this is all very fine for the chap who has his lawyer at his elbow or has had some similar
previous experience. He may wisely shut up like a clam and set at defiance the tortures of
the third degree. But how about the poor fellow arrested on suspicion of having committed a
murder, who has never heard of the legal provision in question, or, if he has, is cajoled or
threatened into "answering one or two questions"? Few police officers take the trouble to warn
those whom they arrest that what they say may be used against them. What is the use? Of course,
when they testify later at the trial they inevitably begin their testimony with the stereotyped
phrase, "I first warned the defendant that anything which he said might be used against him."
If they did warn him they probably whispered it or mumbled it so that he didn't hear what they
said, or, in any event, whether they said it or not, half a dozen of them probably took him
into a back room and, having set him with his back against the wall, threatened and swore at
him until he told them what he knew, or thought he knew, and perhaps confessed his crime. When
the case comes to trial the police give the impression that the accused quietly summoned them
to his cell to make a voluntary statement. The defendant denies this, of course, but the evidence
goes in and the harm has been done. No doubt the methods of the inquisition are in vogue the
world over under similar conditions. Everybody knows that a statement by the accused immediately
upon his arrest is usually the most important evidence that can be secured in any case. It
is a police officer's duty to secure one if he can do so by legitimate means. It is his custom
to secure one by any means in his power. As his oath, that such a statement was voluntary,
makes it ipso facto admissible as evidence, the statutes providing that a defendant cannot
be compelled to give evidence against himself are practically nullified.

In the more important cases the accused is usually put through some sort of an inquisitorial
process by the captain at the station-house. If he is not very successful at getting anything
out of the prisoner the latter is turned over to the sergeant and a couple of officers who
can use methods of a more urgent character. If the prisoner is arrested by headquarters detectives,
various efficient devices to compel him to "give up what he knows" may be used--such as depriving
him of food and sleep, placing him in a cell with a "stool pigeon" who will try to worm a confession
out of him, and the usual moral suasion of a heart-to-heart talk in the back room with the
inspector.

This is the darker side of the picture of practical government. It is needless to say that
the police do not always suggest the various safeguards and privileges which the law accords
to defendants thus arrested, but the writer is free to confess that, save in exceptional cases,
he believes the rigors of the so-called third degree to be greatly exaggerated. Frequently
in dealing with rough men rough methods are used, but considering the multitude of offenders,
and the thousands of police officers, none of whom have been trained in a school of gentleness,
it is surprising that severer treatment is not generally met with on the part of those who
run afoul of the criminal law. The ordinary "cop" tries to do his duty as effectively as he
can. With the average citizen gruffness and roughness go a long way in the assertion of authority.
In the task of policing a big city, the rights of the individual must indubitably suffer to
a certain extent if the rights of the multitude are to be properly protected. We can make too
much of small injustices and petty incivilities. Police business is not gentle business. The
officers are trying to prevent you and me from being knocked on the head some dark night or
from being chloroformed in our beds. Ten thousand men are trying to do a thirty-thousand-man
job. The struggle to keep the peace and put down crime is a hard one anywhere. It requires
a strong arm that cannot show too punctilious a regard for theoretical rights when prompt decisions
have to be made and equally prompt action taken. The thieves and gun men have got to be driven
out. Suspicious characters have got to be locked up. Somehow or other a record must be kept
of professional criminals and persons likely to be active in law-breaking. These are necessities
in every civilized country. They are necessities here. Society employs the same methods of
self-protection the world over. No one presumes a person charged with crime to be innocent,
either in Delhi, Pekin, Moscow, or New York. Under proper circumstances we believe him guilty.
When he comes to be tried the jury consider the evidence, and if they are reasonably sure he
is guilty they convict him. The doctrine of reasonable doubt is almost as much of a fiction
as that of the presumption of innocence. From the time a man is arrested until arraignment
he is quizzed with a view to inducing him to admit his offence or give some evidence that may
help convict him. Logically, why should not a person charged with a crime be obliged to give
what explanation he can of the affair? Why should he have the privilege of silence? Doesn't
he owe a duty to the public the same as any other witness? If he is innocent he has nothing
to fear; if he is guilty--away with him! The French have no false ideas about such things and
at the same time they have a high regard for liberty. We merely cheat ourselves into thinking
that our liberty is something different from French liberty because we have a lot of laws upon
our statute books that are there only to be disregarded and would have to be repealed instantly
if enforced.

Take, for instance, the celebrated provision of the penal laws that the failure of an accused
to testify in his own behalf shall not be taken against him. Such a doctrine flies in the face
of human nature. If a man sits silent when witnesses under oath accuse him of a crime it is
an inevitable inference that he has nothing to say--that no explanation of his would explain.
The records show that the vast majority of accused persons who do not avail themselves of the
opportunity to testify are convicted. Thus, the law which permits a defendant to testify in
reality compels him to testify, and a much-invoked safeguard of liberty turns out to be a privilege
in name only. In France or America alike a man accused of crime sooner or later has to tell
what he knows--or take his medicine. It makes little difference whether he does so under the
legalized interrogation of a "juge d'instruction" in Paris or under the quasi-voluntary examination
of an assistant district attorney or police inspector in New York. It is six of one and half
a dozen of the other if at his trial in France he remains mute under examination or in America
refrains from availing himself of the privilege of testifying in his own behalf.

Thus, we are reluctantly forced to the conclusion that all human institutions have their limitations,
and that, however theoretically perfect a government of laws may be, it must be administered
by men whose chief regard will not be the idealization of a theory of liberty so much as an
immediate solution of some concrete problem.

Not that the matter, after all, is particularly important to most of us, but laws which exist
only to be broken create a disrespect and disregard for law which may ultimately be dangerous.
It would be perfectly simple for the legislature to say that a citizen might be arrested under
circumstances tending to create a reasonable suspicion, even if he had not committed a crime,
and it would be quite easy to pass a statute providing that the commissioner of police might
"mug" and measure all criminals immediately after conviction. As it is, the prison authorities
won't let him, so he has to do it while he has the opportunity.

It must be admitted that this is rather hard on the innocent, but they now have to suffer with
the guilty for the sins of an indolent and uninterested legislature. Moreover, if such a right
of arrest were proposed, some wiseacre or politician would probably rise up and denounce the
suggestion as the first step in the direction of a military dictatorship. Thus, we shall undoubtedly
fare happily on in the blissful belief that our personal liberties are the subject of the most
solicitous and zealous care on the part of the authorities, guaranteed to us under a government
which is not of men but of laws, until one of us happens to be arrested (by mistake, of course)
and learns by sad experience the practical methods of the police in dealing with criminals
and the agreeable but deceptive character of the pleasant fiction of the presumption of innocence.

CHAPTER II. Preparing a Criminal Case for Trial

When the prosecuting attorney in a great criminal trial arises to open the case to the impanelled
jury, very few, if any, of them have the slightest conception of the enormous expenditure of
time, thought and labor which has gone into the preparation of the case and made possible his
brief and easily delivered speech. For in this opening address of his there must be no flaw,
since a single misstated or overstated fact may prejudice the jury against him and result in
his defeat. Upon it also depends the jury's first impression of the case and of the prosecutor
himself--no inconsiderable factor in the result. In a trial of importance its careful construction
with due regard to what facts shall be omitted (in order to enhance their dramatic effect when
ultimately proven) may well occupy the district attorney every evening for a week. But if the
speech itself has involved study and travail, it is as nothing compared with the amount required
by that most important feature of every criminal case--the selection of the jury.

For a month before the trial, or whenever it may be that the jury has been drawn, every member
upon the panel has been subjected to an unseen scrutiny. The prosecutor, through his own or
through hired sleuths, has examined into the family history, the business standing and methods,
the financial responsibility, the political and social affiliations, and the personal habits
and "past performances" of each and every talesman. When at the beginning of the trial they,
one by one, take the witness-chair (on what is called the voir dire) to subject themselves
to an examination by both sides as to their fitness to serve as jurors in the case, the district
attorney probably has close fit hand a rather detailed account of each, and perchance has great
difficulty in restraining a smile. When some prospective juror, in his eagerness either to
serve or to escape, deliberately equivocates in answer to an important question as to his personal
history.

"Are you acquainted with the accused or his family?" mildly inquires the assistant prosecutor.
"No--not at all," the talesman may blandly reply.

The answer, perhaps, is literally true, and yet the prosecutor may be pardoned for murmuring

"Liar!" to himself as he sees that his memorandum concerning the juror's qualifications states
that he belongs to the same "lodge" with the prisoner's uncle by marriage and carries an open
account on his books with the defendant's father.

"I think we will excuse Mr. Ananias," politely remarks the prosecutor; then in an undertone
he turns to his chief and mutters: "The old rascal! He would have knifed us if we'd given him
the chance!" And all this time the disgruntled Mr. Ananias is wondering why, if he didn't "know
the defendant or his family," he was not accepted as a juror.

Of course, every district attorney has, or should have, information as to each talesman's actual
capabilities as a juror and something of a record as to how he has acted under fire. If he
is a member of the "special" panel, it is easy to find out whether he has ever acquitted or
convicted in any cause celebre, and if he has acquitted any plainly guilty defendant in the
past it is not likely that his services will be required. If, however, he has convicted in
such a case the district attorney may try to lure the other side into accepting him by making
it appear that he himself is doubtful as to the juror's desirability. Sometimes persons accused
of crime themselves, and actually under indictment, find their way onto the panels, and more
than one ex-convict has appeared there in some inexplicable fashion. But to find them out may
well require a double shift of men working day and night for a month before the case is called,
and what may appear to be the most trivial fact thus discovered may in the end prove the decisive
argument for or against accepting the juror.

Panel after panel may be exhausted before a jury in a great murder trial has been selected,
for each side in addition to its challenges for "cause" or "bias" has thirty* peremptory ones
which it may exercise arbitrarily. If the writer's recollection is not at fault, the large
original panel drawn in the first Molineux trial was used up and several others had to be drawn
until eight hundred talesmen had been interrogated before the jury was finally selected. It
is usual to examine at least fifty in the ordinary murder case before a jury is secured.

     * In the State of New York.

It may seem to the reader that this scrutiny of talesmen is not strictly preparation for the
trial, but, in fact, it is fully as important as getting ready the facts themselves; for a
poor jury, either from ignorance or prejudice, will acquit on the same facts which will lead
a sound jury to convict. A famous prosecutor used to say, "Get your jury--the case will take
care of itself."

But as the examination of the panel and the opening address come last in point of chronology
it will be well to begin at the beginning and see what the labors of the prosecutor are in
the initial stages of preparation. Let us take, for example, some notorious case, where an
unfortunate victim has died from the effects of a poisoned pill or draught of medicine, or
has been found dead in his room with a revolver bullet in his heart. Some time before the matter
has come into the hands of the prosecutor, the press and the police have generally been doing
more or less (usually less) effective work upon the case. The yellow journals have evolved
some theory of who is the culprit and have loosed their respective reporters and "special criminologists"
upon him. Each has its own idea and its own methods--often unscrupulous. And each has its own
particular victim upon whom it intends to fasten the blame. Heaven save his reputation! Many
an innocent man has been ruined for life through the efforts of a newspaper "to make a case,"
and, of course, the same thing, though happily in a lesser degree, is true of the police and
of some prosecutors as well.

In every great criminal case there are always four different and frequently antagonistic elements
engaged in the work of detection and prosecution--first, the police; second, the district attorney;
third, the press; and, lastly, the personal friends and family of the deceased or injured party.
Each for its own ends--be it professional pride, personal glorification, hard cash, or revenge--is
equally anxious to find the evidence and establish a case. Of course, the police are the first
ones notified of the commission of a crime, but as it is now almost universally their duty
to inform at once the coroner and also the district attorney thereof, a tripartite race for
glory frequently results which adds nothing to the dignity of the administration of criminal
justice.

The coroner is at best no more than an appendix to the legal anatomy, and frequently he is
a disease. The spectacle of a medical man of small learning and less English trying to preside
over a court of first instance is enough to make the accused himself chuckle for joy.

Not long ago the coroners of New York discovered that, owing to the fact that the district
attorney or his representatives generally arrived first at the scene of any crime, there was
nothing left for the "medicos" to do, for the district attorney would thereupon submit the
matter at once to the grand jury instead of going through the formality of a hearing in the
coroner's court. The legal medicine men felt aggrieved, and determined to be such early birds
that no worm should escape them. Accordingly, the next time one of them was notified of a homicide
he raced his horse down Madison Avenue at such speed that he collided with a trolley car and
broke his leg.

Another complained to the district attorney that the assistants of the latter, who had arrived
at the scene of an asphyxiation before him, had bungled everything.

"Ach, dose young men!" he exclaimed, wringing his hands--"Dose young men, dey come here and
dey opened der vindow and let out der gas and all mine evidence esgaped."

It is said that this interesting personage once instructed his jury to find that "the diseased
came to his death from an ulster on the stomach."

These anecdotes are, perhaps, what judges would call obiter dicta, yet the coroner's court
has more than once been utilized as a field in the actual preparation of a criminal case. When
Roland B. Molineux was first suspected of having caused the death of Mrs. Adams by sending
the famous poisoned package of patent medicine to Harry Cornish through the mails, the assistant
district attorney summoned him as a witness to the coroner's court and attempted to get from
him in this way a statement which Molineux would otherwise have refused to make.

When all the first hullabaloo is over and the accused is under arrest and safely locked up,
it is usually found that the police have merely run down the obvious witnesses and made a prima
facie case. All the finer work remains to be done either by the district attorney himself or
by the detective bureau working under his immediate direction or in harmony with him. Little
order has been observed in the securing of evidence. Every one is a fish who runs into the
net of the police, and all is grist that comes to their mill. The district attorney sends for
the officers who have worked upon the case and for the captain or inspector who has directed
their efforts, takes all the papers and tabulates all their information. His practiced eye
shows him at once that a large part is valueless, much is contradictory, and all needs careful
elaboration. A winnowing process occurs then and there; and the officers probably receive a
"special detail" from headquarters and thereafter take their orders from the prosecutor himself.
The detective bureau is called in and arrangements made for the running down of particular
clues. Then he will take off his coat, clear his desk, and get down to work.

Of course, his first step is to get all the information he can as to the actual facts surrounding
the crime itself. He immediately subpoenas all the witnesses, whether previously interrogated
by the police or not, who know anything about the matter, and subjects them to a rigorous cross-examination.
Then he sends for the police themselves and cross-examines them. If it appears that any witnesses
have disappeared he instructs his detectives how and where to look for them. Often this becomes
in the end the most important element in the preparation for the trial. Thus in the Nan Patterson
case the search for and ultimate discovery of Mr. and Mrs. Morgan Smith (the sister and brother-in-law
of the accused) was one of its most dramatic features. After they had been found it was necessary
to indict and then to extradite them in order to secure their presence within the jurisdiction,
and when all this had been accomplished it proved practically valueless.

It frequently happens that an entire case will rest upon the testimony of a single witness
whose absence from the jurisdiction would prevent the trial. An instance of such a case was
that of Albert T. Patrick, for without the testimony of his alleged accomplice--the valet,
Jones--he could not have been convicted of murder. The preservation of such a witness and his
testimony thus becomes of paramount importance, and rascally witnesses sometimes enjoy considerable
ease, if not luxury, at the expense of the public while waiting to testify. Often, too, a case
of great interest will arise where the question of the guilt of the accused turns upon the
evidence of some one person who, either from mercenary motives or because of "blood and affection,"
is unwilling to come to the fore and tell the truth. A striking case of this sort occurred
some ten years ago. The "black sheep" of a prominent New York family forged the name of his
sister to a draft for thirty thousand dollars. This sister, who was an elderly woman of the
highest character and refinement, did not care to pocket the loss herself and declined to have
the draft debited to her account at the bank. A lawsuit followed, in which the sister swore
that the name signed to the draft was not in her handwriting. She won her case, but some officious
person laid the matter before the district attorney. The forger was arrested and his sister
was summoned before the grand jury. Here was a pleasant predicament. If she testified for the
State her brother would undoubtedly go to prison for many years, to say nothing of the notoriety
for the entire family which so sensational a case would occasion. She, therefore, slipped out
of the city and sailed for Europe the night before she was to appear before the grand jury.
Her brother was in due course indicted and held for trial in large bail, but there was and
is no prospect of convicting him for his crime so long as his sister remains in the voluntary
exile to which she has subjected herself. She can never return to New York to live unless something
happens either to the indictment or her brother, neither of which events seems likely in the
immediate future.

Perhaps, if the case is one of shooting, the weapon has vanished. Its discovery may lead to
the finding of the murderer. In one instance where a body was found in the woods with a bullet
through the heart, there was nothing to indicate who had committed the crime. The only scintilla
of evidence was an exploded cartridge--a small thing on which to build a case. But the district
attorney had the hammer marks upon the cap magnified several hundred times and then set out
to find the rifle which bore the hammer which had made them. Thousands of rifles all over the
State were examined. At last in a remote lumber camp was found the weapon which had fired the
fatal bullet. The owner was arrested, accused of the murder, and confessed his crime. In like
manner, if it becomes necessary to determine where a typewritten document was prepared the
letters may be magnified, and by examining the ribbons of suspected machines the desired fact
may be ascertained. The magnifying glass still plays an important part in detecting crime,
although usually in ways little suspected by the general public.

On the other hand, where the weapon has not been spirited away the detectives may spend weeks
in discovering when and where it was purchased. Every pawnshop, every store where a pistol
could be bought, is investigated, and under proper circumstances the requisite evidence to
show deliberation and premeditation may be secured.

These investigations are naturally conducted at the very outset of the preparation of the case.

The weapon, in seven trials out of ten, is the most important thing in it. By its means it
can generally be demonstrated whether the shooting was accidental or intentional--and whether
or not the killing was in self-defence.

