He was obeyed; but scarcely had a dozen men passed, when the Colonel suddenly sprang forward,
seized a tall Rajpoot by the throat, and shouted, in a voice of thunder, "You're the man!"

"Mercy, mercy, Sahib" (master), howled the culprit, falling on his knees. "I'll bring back
the money--I'll bear any punishment you please--only don't give me up to the vengeance of Kali."

"Well," said the Colonel, sternly, "I'll forgive you this once; but if you're ever caught again,
you know what to expect. Dismiss!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"I say, C----, how on earth did you manage that?" asked the senior Major, as he and the Colonel
walked away together; "I suppose you don't want me to believe that you really did get that
idea in a dream?"

"Hardly," laughed the Colonel. "The fact is, those bamboo chips were all exactly the same length;
and the thief, to make sure of not getting the longest, bit off the end of his, and so I knew
him at once. Take my word for it, there'll be no more thieving in the regiment while I'm its
Colonel."

And indeed there never was.

FOOTNOTES:

1 This story is perfectly true, and was told by its hero, Colonel C----, of the Ninety-first
Highlanders.

[Begun in No. 19 of HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE, March 9.]

ACROSS THE OCEAN; OR, A BOY'S FIRST VOYAGE.

A True Story.

BY J. O. DAVIDSON.

CHAPTER III.

OUR HERO'S FIRST FIGHT.

It was well for Austin that he had been struck by the small coal instead of the heavier pieces,
or he might have been killed outright; as it was, after a dash of cold water, and a short rest
in his bunk, he was almost as sound as before. But the accident had worse results than a few
bruises. He was at once set down as an "awkward landlubber," dismissed from his coal-shovelling,
and ordered to do duty in the lamp-room.

This was a dismal hole in the lowest part of the ship, where even what little light there was
had to struggle through an iron grating. Behind the counter that ran half way round it stood
several large iron tanks, strongly padlocked, labelled "Soap," "Oil," "Waste," "Lamp Wicks,"
etc. The floor was covered with various necessaries for engine use, and from the beams overhead
swung lamps of all shapes and sizes, while the walls were covered with bolts, bars, hammers,
and tools of every kind.

This pleasant place usually fell to the charge of some one who was fit for nothing else; and
its present occupant was a lanky youth known as "Monkey"--a name fully warranted by his narrow
watery eyes, enormous under-jaw, and huge projecting bat-like ears. He had been cruising backward
and forward in the Arizona for years, till he seemed quite to belong to her; and although he
disappeared as soon as she reached port, he always found out the day of her departure in time
to join her again--how, no one knew, for he could neither read nor write.

Frank's appointment, of course, displaced Monkey, and neither was pleased with the change.
Monkey much preferred even the dismal lamp-room (where he had only to serve out a certain quantity
of stores daily, and to see that nothing was lost or stolen) to the harder work of scrubbing
the engine-room, which now fell to his share; while Austin, used as he was to out-door exercise,
felt quite miserable in this dungeon-like hole, where he could not even see to read. He was
on duty from dawn till dusk, and even liable to be roused up at night should anything be wanted.
His meals were given him after all the rest were served, and only very rarely did he get the
chance of asking a question, or learning anything that he wished.

