Justification turns no longer upon the ancient law, and the sacrificial and typical system
of blood is no longer the means of pardon. The law contained a shadow of good things to come,
but the body was of Christ. Everything turns in this dispensation upon Christ and his Law.
Jesus told his disciples to teach their converts to observe all things which He had commanded
them to teach, and they filled their mission. No man is threatened, by Christ or any of his
apostles, on account of Sabbath-breaking, or any of those things which are peculiar to the
Jews. But men are threatened for disobedience to the Gospel of Christ. The New Testament is
of Christ. Its religion is not “the Jews’ religion,” but Christ’s. There was much in the Old
Testament that is in the New, but it is there by the authority of Christ. Hence, we are “complete
in Him who is the head of all principality and power.” Much in the laws of the United States
was first in the laws of England, but we do nothing with reference to English authority. So
it is with us, as respects all who went before Christ, we do nothing in reference to them,
but do all in reference to Christ, and for His name. The Old Kingdom of Israel, with its political
law, statutes and judgments, has passed away, and Christ reigns “all in all.” To Him “be glory
and majesty, dominion and power, both now and ever.” Jude, xxv.

INFIDELS LIVE IN DOUBTING CASTLE.

Having shown that no man in his senses can be an atheist, unless he assume that he comprehends
the universe in his mind, with all its abstract essences and principles, which assumption would
be to make himself omnipresent and eternal, a god in fact; and having seen that the proposition
of the divine existence and perfections is demonstrable from the universe, as far as it is
known in all its general laws and in all its parts, we proceed from these prefatory considerations
to other matters still more intimately introductory to our design.

It is essentially preliminary to a clear and forcible display of the reasonableness and certainty
of our faith in Jesus Christ as the author of immortality to man, that we ascertain the proper
ground on which the modern skeptic, of whatever creed, stands when he avows his opposition
to the gospel. That we may duly estimate the strength of his opposition, we must not only enumerate
his objections or arguments, but we must exactly ascertain the exact position which he occupies.
Does he stand within a fortified castle, or in the open field? Presents he himself to our view
in a stronghold, well garrisoned with the invincible forces of logic, of science, and of fact?
or defies he armies and the artillery of light, relying wholly upon himself, his own experience,
without a shield, without an ally, without science, without history, and consequently a single
fact to oppose?

That we may, then, truly and certainly ascertain his precise attitude, before we directly address
him, we shall accurately survey his whole premises. Does he say that he knows the gospel to
be false? No, he can not; for he was not in Judea in the days of the evangelical drama. He,
therefore, could not test the miracles, or sensible demonstrations, by any of his senses; nor
prove to himself that Jesus rose not from the dead. Speaking in accordance with the evidence
of sense, of consciousness, and of experience, he can not say that he knows the gospel to be
a cunningly devised fable. He has not, then, in all his premises knowledge, in its true and
proper meaning, to oppose to the Christian’s faith or hope. What remains?

Can he say, in truth, that he believes the gospel to be false? He can not; because belief without
testimony is impossible; and testimony that the gospel facts did not occur is not found extant
on earth in any language or nation under heaven. No contemporaneous opposing testimony has
ever been heard of, except in one instance, the sleeping and incredible testimony of the Roman
guard, which has a lie stamped indelibly on its forehead: “His disciples stole his dead body
while we were asleep.” He that can believe this is not to be reasoned with. We repeat it with
emphasis, that no living man can say, according to the English Dictionary, that he believes
the gospel to be false.

Alike destitute of knowledge and of faith to oppose to the testimony of apostles, prophets,
and myriads of contemporaneous witnesses, what has the skeptic to present against the numerous
and diversified evidences of the gospel? Nothing in the universe but his doubts. He can, in
strict conformity to language and fact, only say, he doubts whether it be true. He is, then,
legitimately no more than an inmate of Doubting Castle. His fortification is built up of doubts
and misgivings, cemented by antipathy. Farther than this the powers of nature and of reason
can not go.

How far these doubts are rational, scientific, and modest, may yet appear in the sequel; meanwhile,
we only survey the premises which the infidel occupies, and the forces he has to bring into
the action. These, may we not say, are already logically ascertained to be an army of doubts only.

Some talk of the immodesty, others of the folly, others of the maliciousness of the unbeliever;
but not to deal in harsh or uncourteous epithets, may we not say, that it is most unphilosophic
to dogmatize against the gospel on the slender grounds of sheer dubiety. No man, deserving
the name of a philosopher, can ever appear among the crusading forces of pamphleteers and declaimers
against the faith of Christians, for two of the best reasons in the world; he has nothing better
to substitute for the motives, the restraining fears to the wicked, and the animating hopes
to the righteous, which the gospel tenders; and he has nothing to oppose to its claims but
the weakness and uncertainty of his doubts. Franklin was a philosopher, but Paine was a madman.
The former doubted, but never dogmatized—never opposed the gospel, but always discountenanced
and discouraged the infidel; the latter gave to his doubts the authority of oracles, and madly
attempted to silence the Christian’s artillery by the licentious scoffings of the most extravagant
and unreasonable skepticism.

Modesty is the legitimate daughter of true philosophy; but dogmatism, unless the offspring
of infallible authority, is the ill-bred child of ignorance and arrogance. Every man, then,
who seeks to make proselytes to his skepticism by converting his doubts into arguments, is
anything but a philosopher or a philanthropist.

One of the most alarming signs of this age is the ignorance and recklessness of the youthful
assailants of the Bible. Our cities, villages and public places of resort are thronged with
swarms of these Lilliputian volunteers in the cause of skepticism. Apprenticed striplings,
and sprigs of law and physic, whose whole reading of standard authors on general science, religion,
or morality, in ordinary duodecimo, equals not the years of their unfinished, or just completed
minority, imagine that they have got far in advance of the vulgar herd, and are both philosophers
and gentlemen if they have learned at second hand, a few scoffs and sneers at the Bible, from
Paine, Voltaire, Bolingbroke, or Hume. One would think, could he listen to their impudence,
that Bacon, Newton, Locke, and all the great masters of science, were very pigmies, and that
they themselves were sturdy giants of extraordinary stature in all that is intellectual, philosophic
and learned. These would-be baby demagogues are a public nuisance to society, whose atheistic
breath not unfrequently pollutes the whole atmosphere around them, and issues in a moral pestilence
among that class who regard a fine hat and a cigar as the infallible criteria of a gentleman
and scholar.

These creatures have not sense enough to doubt, nor to think sedately on any subject; and therefore,
we only notice them while defining the ground occupied by the unbelievers of this generation.
They prudently call themselves skeptics, but imprudently carry their opposition to the Bible,
beyond all the bounds embraced in their own definitions of skepticism. A skeptic can only doubt,
never oppugn the gospel. He becomes an atheist, or an infidel, bold and dogmatic, as soon as
he opens his mouth against the Bible.

Were we philosophically to class society as it now exists in this country in reference to the
gospel, we should have believers, unbelievers, and skeptics. We would find some who have voluntarily
received the apostolic testimony as true; others who have rejected it as false; and a third
class who simply doubt, and neither receive nor reject it as a communication from heaven. But,
though, unbelievers, while they call themselves skeptics, often wage actual war against the
faith and hope of Christians, still their actual rejection of the gospel has no other foundation
than pure aversion to its restraints and some doubts as to its authenticity. The quagmire of
their own doubts, be it distinctly remembered, is the sole ground occupied by all the opponents
of the gospel, whether they style themselves antitheists, atheists, theists, unbelievers, or
skeptics.—Alexander Campbell, in 1835.

INFIDELITY, AND THE FRENCH AND AMERICAN REVOLUTIONS IN THEIR RELATIONS TO THOMAS PAINE.

Infidels can not free themselves from the bands which tie the universe to its God. Every effort
has been fruitless. Not one writer among all their hosts has been lucky enough to avoid the
use of Christian terms that are in direct antagonism with their speculation and positions.
It will be interesting to review, occasionally, their literature.

Speaking of Thomas Paine, Mr. Ingersoll says: “Every American with the DIVINE mantle of charity,
should cover all his faults.” What use has Col. Ingersoll or any other infidel for the word
DIVINE? The term is thus defined: Pertaining to the true God; (from the Latin DIVINUS; from
DEUS, a god) proceeding from God; appropriated to God; or celebrating His praise; excellent
in the supreme degree; apparently above what is human; godlike; heavenly; holy; sacred; spiritual.
As a noun: one versed in divine things or divinity; a theologian; a minister of the gospel;
a priest; a clergyman. Zell’s Encyclopedia.

Again, Mr. Ingersoll says, “Upon the head of his father, GOD had never poured the DIVINE petroleum
of authority.” So much the better for the race. What would infidels do if they had the authority?
“Hume is called a model man, a man as nearly perfect as the nature of human frailty will permit.”
He maintained that pleasure or profit is the test of morals; that “the lack of honesty is of
a piece with the lack of strength of body;” that “suicide is lawful and commendable;” that
“female infidelity, when known, is a small thing; when unknown, nothing;” “that adultery must
be practiced if men would obtain all the advantages of this life; and that if generally practiced
it would, in time, cease to be scandalous, and if practiced frequently and secretly would come
to be thought no crime at all.”

Lord Herbert taught that the “indulgence of lust and anger is no more to be blamed than thirst
or drowsiness.”

Voltaire contended “for the unlimited gratification of the sexual appetites, and was a sensualist
of the lowest type; nevertheless he had the amazing good sense to wish that he had never been
born.”

Rousseau was, by his confession, a habitual liar and thief, and debauchee; a man so utterly
vile that he took advantage of the hospitality of friends to plot their domestic ruin; a man
so destitute of natural affection that he committed his BASE-BORN children to the charity of
the public. To use his own language, “guilty without remorse, he soon become so without measure.”

Thomas Paine was, according to the verdict of history, “addicted to intemperance in his last
years, given to violence and abusiveness, had disreputable associates, lived with a woman who
was not his wife, and left to her whatever remnant of fortune he had.”

What would such godless infidels give us if the Almighty God should “pour the petroleum of
authority upon their heads?” But, in all candor, what use has Col. Ingersoll for the idea of
authority coming from God? Can’t he keep in his own ruts. “The DIVINE petroleum of authority
was never poured upon the head of Thomas Paine’s father.” Well, so much the better for the
reputation of God. But why does Mr. Ingersoll use the term God, and have so much to say of
Him? Let us hear him. He says, whoever is a friend of man is also a friend of God—if there
is one. Yes! “IS THERE IS ONE.” This reminds me of an old infidel who was struggling with the
cramp colic, and just as a minister was approaching his bedside he turned himself over in the
bed and said, O Lord, if there is any Lord, save my soul, if I’ve got any soul. The minister
walked out. What is the condition of those minds which modify their declarations with the saying
“if there is any Lord,” “if there is one,” “if I’ve got any soul.” How much more manly is it
to own the great universal and instinctive or inate truth, that there is a Master, God, or
great first Living Intelligence, and cease acting foolishly. From whence did it come? Is he
sitting upon the bones of Moses and making grimaces at the old prophet while he is adopting
his sentences? Infidels blaspheme the name of Moses, and abuse his hyperboles and his facts
as well, and, at the same time, go to his quiver to get their very best arrows.

“At the close of the Revolution no one stood higher in America than Thomas Paine.”—Ingersoll.

Well, well. To what “mount” have we come at last? Paine sailed to France in 1787. “He was elected
to represent the Department of Calais in the National Convention, and took his seat in that
radical assembly in 1792.” At this time Col. Ingersoll’s church had everything its own way
in France. There was no God to respect or devil to fear. “Free thought” ruled—its reign was
a reign of night. The goddess of reason was the “twin sister of the Spanish Inquisition.” The
soldiers were in power, and great hearts were made to bleed. Three hundred and sixty-six men
in the National Convention voted for the death of the king. Three hundred and fifty-five voted
against his execution. It is true that Tom Paine was one of the three hundred and fifty-five.
A year after the king’s execution Tom was put into prison, and remained there nearly two years.
When he was released he wrote the second part of the Age of Reason, and in 1802 he came back
to America. What he did for American liberty was done while he was a Quaker, and before he
wrote his detestable works against the Bible. Let some bold infidel produce just one noble
public act that Paine did for our country after he avowed himself an infidel. Will it be done?

The leaders of the French revolution were the disciples of Rousseau, Voltaire and Diderot.
They were atheists, or infidels. Tom Paine was one of their number, participated in their deliberations,
helped to get up the constitution they enacted. What they did is what the infidels of the United
States wish to have done. They wiped out Christianity by vote, and forbade the utterance of
the name of God to their children. They abolished the Lord’s day, and made the week to consist
of ten instead of seven days. They took the bells from the churches and cast them into cannons.
Chaumette, a leader in the convention, came before the president “leading a courtesan with
a troop of her associates.” He lifted her veil, and said, “Mortals! recognize no other divinity
than Reason, of which I present to you the loveliest and purest personification.” The president
bowed and rendered devout adoration. The same scene was reënacted in the cathedral of Notre
Dame, with increased outrages upon God and common-sense. Wrong was reputed right, and the distinction
between vice and virtue was banished.

From this time, and onward, the test of attachment to the government was contempt for religion
and decency. Those suspected of disloyalty were gathered; one thousand and five hundred women
and children were shut up in one prison, without fire, bed, cover, or provisions, for two days.
Men escaped by giving up their fortunes, and women escaped by parting with their virtue.

Seventeen thousand perished in Paris during this reign of infidel terror. This ungodly abrogation
of religion in France cost the nation three million of lives—think of it! France’s most dark
and damning record was the fruit of the tenets of the men that Col. Ingersoll lauds to the
heavens. They were the fruits of the labors of the men with whom Tom Paine sat, and believed,
and voted. “His faith was their faith.”

“It was the Quaker Paine who worked for our independence, and not the infidel Paine. He did
nothing in the interests of our national liberty after he avowed his irreligious principles.”
Neither was he the first to raise the voice in favor of national liberty. Ten years before
he wrote his work entitled “Common Sense,” at the suggestion of Franklin and Dr. Benjamin Rush,
which was in 1776, Patrick Henry’s voice was heard amid the assembled colonists in Virginia.
He said: “Cæsar had his Brutus, Charles I. his Cromwell, and George III.—” Just then some one
cried out, “Treason!” After a pause, Henry added,—“may profit by their example.” Years before
Tom Paine came to America, even in 1748, it went to record that American legislatures were
tending to independence. “They were charged with presumption in declaring their own rights
and privileges.” Our independence was predicted near at hand from 1758 and onwards. In 1774,
before Paine came from England, the word freedom was ringing out upon the air. “James Otis
was hailing the dawn of a new empire” in 1765. In this year there were utterances of such sentiments
as tended to evolve the declaration of 1776, and these were heard all over the land from Boston
to Charleston, S. C. In 1773 “Samuel Adams insisted that the colonies should have a congress
to frame a bill of rights, or to form an independent state, an American commonwealth.” The
North Carolinians renounced their allegiance to the king of England in the Mecklenberg declaration,
which was made in May, 1775. But Paine’s little book, suggested by Dr. Benjamin Rush and Franklin,
and called “Common Sense,” was published in 1776.

William Carver addressed a private letter to Thomas Paine, dated Dec. 2, 1806, and published
in the New York Observer Nov. 1, 1877, in which we have the following revelations: “A respectable
gentleman from New Rochelle called to see me a few days back, and said that every body was
tired of you there and that no one would undertake to board and lodge you. I thought this was
the case, as I found you at a tavern in a most miserable situation. You appeared as if you
had not been shaved for a fortnight, and as to a shirt, it could not be said that you had one
on, it was only the remains of one, and this likewise appeared not to have been off your back
for a fortnight, and was nearly the color of tanned leather; and you had the most disagreeable
smell possible, just like that of our poor beggars in England. Do you remember the pains I
took to clean you? That I got a tub of warm water and soap, and washed you from head to foot,
and this I had to do three times before I could get you clean? Now sir, I think I have drawn
a complete portrait of your character, yet, to enter upon every minutia, would be to give a
history of your life, and to develop the fallacious mask of hypocrisy and deception under which
you have acted in your political, as well as moral, capacity of life.” So much for the apostate
Quaker’s character after the close of the American revolution.

Mr. Lecky, an infidel, says, “It was reserved for Christianity to present to the world an ideal
character, which through all the changes of eighteen centuries has filled the hearts of men
with an impassioned love, and has shown itself capable of acting on all ages, nations, temperaments,
and conditions; has not only been the highest pattern of virtue, but the highest incentive
of practice: amid all the sins and failing; amid all the priestcraft, the persecution and fanaticism
which have defaced the church, it has preserved IN THE CHARACTER OF ITS FOUNDER AN ENDURING
PRINCIPLE OF REGENERATION.” If such be the fountain let the stream continue to flow.

SHALL WE UNCHAIN THE TIGER? OR, THE FRUITS OF INFIDELITY.

                          By Eld. A. I. Maynard.

An infidel production was submitted to Benjamin Franklin manuscript; he returned it to the
author with a letter, from which the following quotations are extracted: “I would advise you
not to attempt unchaining the Tiger, but to burn this piece before it is seen by any other
person.... If men are so wicked with religion, what would they be without it?” He informs us
that he was “an advocate of infidelity in his early youth, a confirmed Deist.” He says his
“arguments perverted some other young persons, particularly Collins and Ralph, and when he
recollected that they both treated him exceedingly ill without the least remorse, and also
remembered the behavior of Keith, another ‘Freethinker,’ and his own conduct toward Vernon
and a Miss Reed, which at times gave him great uneasiness, he was led to suspect that his theory,
if true, was not very useful.”

Youth and inexperience have been the secret of many young persons being led astray, like Franklin,
by infidel speculations; but age and observation have convinced many of them that all infidel
speculations are empty and worthless. Look at the history of infidelity in France and Scotland,
and then look at liberalism in America, with Col. Ingersoll leading the van. Can’t you see
that its only tendency is to loosen the restraints of morality and “unchain the Tiger?”

The inconsiderate and inexperienced youth of both sexes, have need of all the motives of religion
to lead them from vice, to support their virtue, and retain them in its practice until it becomes
habitual.

Unbeliever, if you read this article, and remember that you have prepared one sentence to cut
one cord that helps to hold the Tiger, burn it. Do not unchain the animal. Would you substitute
infidelity for Christianity, for the religion of the Bible? Would you do that in this country?
Infidelity proposes to break down the altars of prayer, take away our Bibles and our days of
worship, shut up the doors against all our Sunday-schools and turn more than a million of children
into the streets, away from sweet song and moralizing influences, and the pure morals of the
gospel of Christ. This would bereave the living of his rule of life, and rob the dying of the
antidote of death.

Shall we “unchain the Tiger”—unbelief? What would it bring us in return? Its doctrines are
vague speculations, founded on neither data nor evidence; some of its supporters believe in
some kind of a God, while some deny every God; some few believe in the immortality of the soul,
while a majority, with the French infidels, write over the gates of their cemeteries, “Death
is eternal sleep.”

In looking over the various infidel productions I think of the old saying, “Be sure you are
right, and then go ahead.” There is no certainty in their speculations. They do not agree even
in their so-called moral code, nor, as yet, in their doctrinal speculations.

Lord Herbert and the Earl of Shaftesbury thought that the light of nature would teach all men,
without the aid of revelation, to observe the morality of the Bible. Spinosa and Hobbes, one
believing in a God, and the other an Atheist, agreed that there was nothing that was either
right or wrong in its own nature; and also agreed “that every man had a right to obtain, either
by force or fraud, everything which either his reason or his passions prompted him to believe
was useful to himself—duties to the State were his only duties.”

Blount, another Freethinker, supposed “that the moral law of nature justified self-murder.”
Lord Bolingbroke claimed that it enjoined polygamy; and neither Blount nor Bolingbroke prohibited
fornication, or adultery, or incest, except between parents and children.

But the vagueness and uncertainty of the doctrinal speculations of infidelity, and the looseness
and immorality of its rules of life, are not the only objections to it. Its tendency, wherever
it has been introduced in the history of our world, has been evil, and only evil. France, at
the commencement of her revolution in 1789, was an infidel nation. The profligacy of the Catholic
priesthood, and the demoralizing example of the Regent, Duke of Orleans, and the infidel publications
of Voltaire and his associates, had produced a contempt for religion through every rank of
society. The people of France were taught by their literati that the Bible was at war with
their liberties; and that they could never expect to overturn the throne till they had, first,
broken down the “altar.” HERE THE TIGER WAS UNCHAINED!

The lusts and passions of man were set free from the restraints of Christianity, and the bloody
history of that nation, in its devotion to infidelity, should convince every man that infidelity
only “unchained the tiger”! It did France no good, but much evil. In this state of things France
needed revolution, as America did, and had she engaged in it, with as pious reliance upon God,
“and with the hearts of her people deeply imbued with the morality of the Bible, the scion
of liberty, carried in the honored Lafayette from this country,” would have taken deep root,
and spread forth its branches; and ere this time the fairest portion of Europe might have reposed
under its shadow. But her principles poisoned her morals, and her immorality disqualified her
for freedom. After expending an incredible amount of treasure, and sacrificing more than two
million of men, she consented to be ruled by a despot in hope of some protection from her own
people, and in hope of some security against the animal which she had unchained.

With such facts before us, let us Americans decide, not merely as Christians, but as “patriots
and fathers,” whether we will cling to the pure “Gospel of Jesus Christ,” given to us in the
love of Heaven, and in the blood of Jesus, rather than accept in its stead the empty, Godless,
Christless, good-for-nothing negative of God and Christ and Christianity. The chief article
in the unbeliever’s creed is in these words, “I believe in all unbelief.”

                  -------------------------------------

Will not our friends take interest enough in the JOURNAL to increase its circulation. There
is no reason why it should not be immediately doubled, and thus placed upon a solid basis.
It is our intention to make it a thorough defense of the truth, so much so that all will relish
it, and remember it with delight.

THE STRUGGLE.

    “Passion riots; reason then contends,
    And on the conquest every bliss depends.”

There are two different periods in the history of the race; in the history of a nation; in
the history of the church; in the history of moral institutions, and in the history of families.
In one the intellect predominates, governs; in the other the emotional nature, or passion,
rules. The fatal day in the history of a nation is the day in which, through party strife or
otherwise, a nation of people becomes a seething mass of heated passion. Such a nation is like
a vessel tossed upon the waves above the falls of some mighty river, liable to be buried in
the whirlpool of destruction. Men who are governed by their emotional nature are most liable
to disappointments, to troubles, and difficulties of every kind. Select all the miserable families
in your community, tell me where they are, and I will show you every family in which passion
reigns.

Troubles are generally legitimate children of passion. Who has not heard some one say, repentingly,
“If I had taken a second, sober thought I would not have done it.” Intellect belongs to our
higher nature, and emotion belongs to our lower. Intelligence is always at a discount where
the emotional nature governs—it is subordinated to passion. When the intellect governs, the
emotional is subjected to thought; when either one predominates, the other is brought under
and enslaved. These are the two conflicting elements in man’s nature which are generally at
war with each other, leading to different and antagonistic results. During the dark ages, which
were ushered in through the repudiation of intelligence and the predominance of passion, the
emotional reigned, and men were governed by their passions in religious as well as state affairs.
The shadows of those ages still linger with some communities, and with many persons in almost
all communities. Our fathers had a long and hard struggle in getting away from an emotional
to an intellectual state, both in civil as well as religious affairs. To-day, if we consider
this matter in connection with our people as a nation, we may safely say that we are in an
intellectual period—mind predominates. This is an age of investigation. The time was, in the
history of our fathers, when a man was fined fifty pounds of tobacco if he refused to have
his innocent child christened. See the “old Blue Laws.” The time was when innocent persons
were tried, condemned, and put to death for being, in the estimation of men, clothed with disgraceful
ignorance, witches. Who has not heard of the “Salem witchcraft?”

The emotional nature of man, as a ruling sovereign, is losing its “legal-tender value” daily.
The time was when it brought a premium in the most of the churches in our country. An aged
father, who is now “across the river,” once said to me, “I was bewildered, and mentally lost
for thirty years of my life.” I asked him for the facts. He, answering, said: “During all that
period of time I was a church member, and, like some others, I was a quiet, still kind of a
soul; I paid my honest debts; told the truth about my neighbors, and lived a moral life to
the very best of my abilities. There were others of the same character. The preachers frequently
called us Quakers—the Quakers were a very still people in those days. There were others who
were reckless; would not always tell the truth, and would not always pay their honest debts,
but they were, nevertheless, very noisy in the church, and the preacher always made most of
those noisy fellows. Now,” said the aged father, “I never could understand that.” The old man
lived to learn the secret, and changed his religious relations and began a new life in religion.

The scenes of the “Cane Ridge revival,” down in Kentucky, have not been repeated in all our
country for more than twenty years, and it is probable that they never will be. There are many
things in the past history of religion in our country that will never be repeated. Did you
ever witness a panic in a large congregation of people? If you have, you may go with me to
“Cane Ridge.” Before we start I wish to remind you of the fact that some of the most fearful
panics known to men took place where, and when, there was no reason for them outside of existing
ignorance. Fright or fear, coupled with ignorance, produced them. Now let us go to “Cane Ridge.”
There we find the people in the emotional period in the history of religion. They are laboring
under the conviction that Jehovah has concentrated all the powers of His Spirit at Cane Ridge—it
is the common conviction. The people all over the country believe that God is there. The excitement
runs high, and yet higher; it becomes contagious—a religious epidemic—the ruling element being
the thought of the presence of the Divine Majesty, and the emotional nature of man the field
of its operations. All the ignorance of a genuine panic is there. There were no well-informed
unbelievers there to tear off the veil, nor better-informed Christians to remove it, not even
so much as a Wesley to exonerate God by saying, “I am constrained to believe that it is the
devil tearing them as they are coming to Christ.” No! There is one conviction at Cane Ridge—it
is this: Jehovah is here. It was a wonderful panic—a wonderful time. Persons going on to the
ground immediately fell down like dead men; got up with the jerks; barked like dogs. Women
went backwards and forwards, making singular gestures; their heads were bobbing with the jerks,
and their long hair cracking like whips. The scene was beyond description. The whole country
flocked to the place, and all were confounded with amazement and astonishment.

If such operations were religion, our country has been without it for a long time. Then our
old-fashioned camp-meetings—where are they? They are things of the past. I recollect leaving
a camp-ground at a late hour of the night, just as the congregation divided up into groups,
and the groups went out into the woods in different directions to engage in secret prayer.
We heard them when we were three miles away—strange secret prayer! Do you know anything of
that kind of secret prayer at the present time?

The common pulpit teaching of those times was wonderful(?), but it was the best they had. It
was common for preachers to make war upon education. They often boasted of their ignorance.
They claimed that education was not necessary to qualify a man for the pulpit. The best school
teachers in our country received twelve and fifteen dollars per month for teaching, and boarded
themselves. Teachers who now pay five dollars per week for board, can’t see how those old teachers
got along upon such wages. In those times it was very common for teachers to get their board
for seventy-five cents per week. The farmers claimed that it was unnecessary to educate their
daughters, and only necessary to educate their sons sufficiently well to enable them to keep
their accounts. Beyond this it was often claimed that an education was of no value—that it
only made rascals. I recollect a very zealous old man who preached for the German Baptists;
he is now “across the waves.” Once, in my presence, he disposed of a grammatical argument that
was put against him, by saying, “It is the wisdom of the world, and it is sensual and devilish.”
It was common forty years ago for preachers to say, “I don’t know what I shall say, but just
as the Lord gives it to me I will hand it to you.” As a general thing those men knew no better,
and the masses of the people knew no better. The people were living in an Emotional period,
with the exception of a few brave thinkers, and they were governed by their emotions.

Prosperity grew with the growth of our country, and the standard of education was elevated.
The free-school system took the place of the old-fashioned subscription schools, which were
worth twelve dollars per month to the whole community, and the brave thinkers continued stirring
up thought in religion, and giving the fathers and mothers trouble about this thing of confounding
religion with passion, and our country is now fairly at sea in an Intellectual period. Religion
is now a thing to be learned and lived—to be done. Those brave men who advocated an intelligent
religion forty years ago, were denounced, from almost every pulpit in our country, as a set
of “whitewashed infidels,” having no religion, and “without God in the world.”

But that day is past, and we are in a period in which mind generally predominates. The language
of the emotional is seldom heard. In that period it was common to hear men ask: “How did you
get religion?” “where did you get religion?” “where did you get religion?” “describe it;” “O
I can’t, it is better felt than expressed.” Such language was in keeping with a very common
idea which was held sacred in those days. It was this, the Lord made general provision for
the salvation of men, but He makes a special application to the sinner. Of course, all to whom
salvation was not especially applied, were, in the estimation of those people, lost. There
are a few communities yet that are away back in the emotional period. There are men and women
in every community who are yet governed by their emotional nature in matters of religion. Those
persons have no use for an intelligent, argumentative preacher. They want a preacher who will
say smoothe things; and there is now and then a preacher who has no strength outside of the
emotional.

We have an emotional nature. I am glad that we have. I would not be an intellectual wooden-man
if I could. But if you say, the Almighty Father intended that we should be intellectually subordinated
to our emotional nature, and therefore governed by our passions, or feelings, I shall deny
it. He never intended that we should be governed by our passions. To-day there are strong intellects
in unbelief flooding our country with their literature. How shall they be met? Mr. Moody says,
“Show them that you are full of Jesus Christ and the Holy Ghost.” Very well. Can you do that
without the truth? can you do that without word or wisdom? can you do it without “contending
earnestly for the faith once delivered unto the saints?” In the days of Christ and His apostles
the men who were full of the Holy Spirit had a mouth and wisdom which none of their adversaries
were able to resist or gainsay. The antichrists of our day can not be met successfully without
reason, without argument, without meeting the intellectual demands of the times.

There are intellectual men and women in almost every community throughout our country—men and
women with whom intelligence governs—who want the whys and wherefores upon every subject. This
class is on the increase at a rapid rate. It does no good to set ourselves against reason,
and oppose the current of thought with our emotional nature. In that way we may succeed with
those who are governed by their emotional nature, but the work, when it is done, is a work
upon the passions, and will soon pass away, unless the intellect was at the same time enlisted.
The men who stir the world with thought, and give intellectual cast to the age in which we
live, are to be met with thought, met with reason, met with truths tried in the crucible.

