The clipper-ships, although certainly the finest class of vessels afloat, are very uneasy in
a sea. Mr Steers, the builder of the far-famed yacht America, is very sanguine that he will
produce a faster vessel than has yet ploughed the seas, and Captain Mackinnon is inclined to
believe that he will. His new clipper-vessels will be as easy in motion as superior in sailing.
The great merit of Mr Steers, as the builder of the America, is in his having invented a perfectly
original model, as new in America as in Europe. He informed our author that the idea, so successfully
carried out in the America's model, struck him when a boy of eight years old. He was looking
on at the moulding of a vessel by his father (an Englishman), when suddenly it occurred to
him that a great improvement might be made in the construction; and the modus operandi speedily
took possession of his mind. Mr Steers thinks that a shallow vessel, with a sliding keel, can
be built to outsail any vessel even on his improved model. This is likely to be tested next
summer in England, as a sloop, the Silvia, built by Steers on this construction, is preparing
to try her speed at Cowes next season. The author carefully noted this craft when on the stocks
alongside the America,[1] and he believes, 'that no vessel in England has the ghost of a chance
against her.'

The English ship-builders have a great deal to learn from Brother Jonathan, not only in the
fashion of build, but likewise in the 'fitting and rigging.' An American London liner is sailed
with half the number of men required by an English ship of the same size, and yet the work
is got through as well and as expeditiously. The various mechanical contrivances to save labour
might be beneficially copied by English ships.

A merchant-vessel, on the clipper principle, can be turned out by a Baltimore builder for from
L.10 to L.12 a ton, complete in all her fittings. This is much cheaper than in England, which
appears unaccountable, considering the rate of wages; but so much more work is done by the
workmen for their wages, that labour is as cheap, if not cheaper, there than here. 'Cotton-duck'
sails are almost exclusively used by American vessels under 300 tons, which for such vessels,
as well as for yachts, is much better and cheaper than canvas. Another circumstance which struck
the author at Baltimore--and which is equally striking to hear of to those who are accustomed
to the sight of the Thames barges ascending and descending the river, in all their ugliness
and filth, with the flow and ebb of each tide--was, that the vessels intended for the lowest
and most degrading offices, such as carrying manure, oysters, and wood, were of 'elegant and
symmetrical proportions!'

The most potent proofs of Uncle Sam's 'cuteness are to be found in the patent office at Washington.
Inventions pour in in such abundance, that already the space allotted to them is so completely
crammed, as to preclude the possibility of any close investigation. The dockyard at Washington
furnished matter for fresh reflection; the iron for cables, furnished by contract, being so
superior to the old, that the testing-links were all broken on the first trial, the model-anchors
being 'an immense improvement,' &c.

'And to whom do you suppose we are indebted for all these improvements, and many more too tedious
to mention?' asked the officer. 'Why, to an English dockyard-master from Devonport.'

So much for their progress on the eastern coast: now let us turn westward, ascending the Hudson
by one of the river--steamers. Without doubt, these steam--vessels are the swiftest and best
arranged known; but the speed and size are improving so rapidly, that what is correct now,
may be far behind the mark a year hence. The Isaac Newton is at present the largest. The saloon,
which is gorgeously decorated, is 100 yards long. In this vast, vaulted apartment, the huge
mirrors, elegant carving, and profuse gilding, absolutely dazzle the eye. On first entering
one of these magnificent floating saloons, it is difficult for the imagination to realise its
position. All comparison is at once defied, as there is nothing like it afloat in the world.

The extent of the lake-trade is prodigious. Its aggregate value for 1850, imports and exports,
amounts to 186,484,905 dollars, which is more by 40,000,000 dollars than the whole foreign
export-trade of the country! The aggregate tonnage employed on the lakes is equal to 203,041
tons, of which 167,137 tons are American, and 35,904 British. The passenger-trade is not included
in the preceding sum; it is valued at 1,000,000 dollars. 'The mind is lost in astonishment
at so prodigious a commerce. It is not ten years since the first steamer ran round the chain
of lakes. Population, and its commercial concomitants, are increasing so rapidly, that before
twenty years, the lake-trade alone will be of greater extent and importance than the whole
trade of any other nation on the globe!' The number of emigrants from Europe and the eastern
states annually passing through Buffalo for the Far West is now one million, and likely, by
and by, to increase to two millions! Cities are consequently rising up with extraordinary rapidity.
The population of Detroit, for example, has increased, during the last ten years, from 11,000
to 26,000--an advance which is mainly owing to the facilities afforded by the Michigan Central
Railway, for concentrating on their passage the westward-bound emigrants. An absurd spirit
of speculation has likewise contributed to the increase. A building and farming mania, similar
to the railway mania in England six years ago, has seized the people. The only salvation for
the speculators is the continued increase of vast swarms of emigrants from Europe. Chicago
is another example of rapid increase--namely, from 3000 in 1840, to above 20,000 in 1850; a
growth which it mainly owes to its advantageous site at the head of the navigation of the chain
of lakes. Milwaukie is also a wonderful instance of progress. In 1838, there was not a single
house on the spot: in 1840, there was a village with 1700 inhabitants; in 1850, there was a
city of 20,000! Twenty years ago, the land on which it stands was not worth more than the government
price, which is about 5s. 5d. per acre: at present, the lots are valued, in good locations,
at L.40 a foot frontage. The result is speculation; with sudden fortunes on the one hand, and
sudden ruin on the other. Emigrants, as well as citizens themselves, have to 'move on' further
west; and hence they are covering Wisconsin, Minesota, and other territories. Nothing can now
arrest the flowing tide till it dash against the Rocky Mountains, and meet the counter-tide
setting in from the coast of the Pacific.

The district around Lake Winnebago seems, according to our author's account, to be a tempting
spot for emigrants; and as there cannot be the least suspicion of his having an interest in
trumpeting it up, it may be as well that the reader should know where 'Paradise Restored' is
to be found. Lake Winnebago is not one of those huge inland oceans, with winds and waves, storms
and shipwrecks upon it, but a quiet, snug sheet of water like Loch Lomond, which it resembles
in size, and, if we may judge from a paper-description, in appearance. 'It is about thirty
miles long, and ten to twelve broad. A high ridge of limestone bounds it on the east, sloping
gradually down to the edge of the water. Numerous natural clearings or prairies relieve the
sameness of the luxuriant forests. On the western side, the land invades the lake in long,
low capes and peninsulas. The fragrance of the air, the exquisite verdure of the trees, the
gorgeous colours of the prairie flowers, and the artist-like arrangements of the "oak openings,"
and wild meadows, are delights never to be forgotten. The most elaborate and cultivated scenery
in Europe falls into insignificance in comparison. I was struck with astonishment that such
"a garden of Eden" should be so little known, even in the eastern states--that such extraordinary
advantages should be neglected. After a careful examination of many places in the western portion
of the United States, I advisedly assert, that Lake Winnebago District is the most desirable
and the finest in the world for emigrants.'

His reasons for this opinion are briefly, that it has communication with the Atlantic on each
border of the state--by the Mississippi on the west, and Lake Michigan on the east; that the
soil is very fertile, and the climate remarkably healthy, being more equable than the same
latitude on sea-board, and quite free from fever or ague. With great glee, the captain details
a sporting excursion in this romantic district, in the course of which he fell in with an old
acquaintance in the shape of an under-keeper from one of the Scottish moors. He had emigrated
two years, and become a 'laird.' His remarks displayed great 'cuteness, and as it was on Uncle
Sam's soil, it must be placed to Uncle Sam's credit. Their conversation was so amusing as well
as instructive, that we quote it.

'"Ah, sir," said the Scotchman, "if the quality in England only knew there was a place like
this, do you think they would go and pay such extravagant rents for the mere shooting in Scotland?
No, sir, not they. My old master paid five hundred pounds a year for his moor adjacent to Loch
Ness."

"And pray what did he get for it?"

"Why, not half such sport as he can get here," replied he.

"Truly," I rejoined; "but remember the distance, and expense of coming here."

"As for the distance, you can, at present, be here from London in fourteen days. In two years,
the rail will be finished to Fond-du-Lac, and you will be enabled to get here in eleven days.
The expense, as I will prove, will not only be far less, but it may be turned into a positive
gain."

'I pricked up my ears at this assertion, and requested my old acquaintance, the ex-keeper,
to proceed.

"Well, sir, look 'ee here: suppose a party of five gentlemen subscribe five hundred pounds
apiece, that will be two thousand five hundred pounds. With one thousand five hundred pounds,
they can purchase a quantity of land, and build an excellent house, stable, and offices on
Doty Island, in a position which, in ten years' time, will increase greatly in value as an
eligible site for building allotments. The very fact of such an establishment by wealthy English
gentlemen will cause the land to rise in value enormously; and I will warrant that in five
years it will be worth ten times the present cost. From their location on Doty Island, they
would have the finest fresh-water fishing in the world. They would have thirty miles lake-shore
for deer-shooting; and dense woods, forty miles back to Lake Michigan, where bears, and catamounts,
and other wild animals are plentiful. Abundance of wild fowl, quail, and wood-cocks would be
found everywhere."

"Stop," exclaimed I, interrupting him; "what are we to do about the main point--the grouse-shooting?
Besides, remember there is another thousand pounds to account for."

"Don't interrupt, please sir; I am coming to that. I know several districts of country in this
neighbourhood with natural boundaries, such as creeks, rivers, thick belts of trees, &c. These
districts vary from five thousand to twenty thousand acres, and are so fertile that Europeans
cannot even imagine such richness. Five hundred pounds you could lend to the farmers at twelve
per cent. per annum. Many of them pay from two to eight per cent. per month. You would thus,
by accommodating the farmers, have the best-stocked preserves, and the most friendly occupiers
of the soil that can be found. The remaining five hundred pounds you might keep to improve
your lands, or invest at twelve per cent. as the other half. If thus invested, you would get
twelve per cent. on one thousand pounds, nearly equal to five per cent. upon the whole sum
laid out, and the land increasing in value in a prodigious ratio."

"Wonderful!" thought I, with enthusiasm. "I will pop you in print, my lad."'

We 'pop him in print' with similar good-will. His scheme would be an admirable one, save and
except that there is an ocean to cross before reaching Doty Island. We commend it to the New
Yorkers and gentlemen of the eastern states, who wish to have a hunting-field such as the old
monarchs of Europe would have envied. The scheme, notwithstanding, does credit to the ingenuity
of its propounder, who thereby proves himself the right sort of man for the country he has
chosen to call his own.

Another conversation which our author relates, affords an unequivocal sample of real aboriginal
'cuteness. Captain Mackinnon impresses us, as he did the Americans, as a frank, hearty fellow,
who can make himself at home at once, anywhere, and with any one. During his short sporting
excursion, he seems to have picked acquaintance with nearly all the happy inhabitants of that
western Eden with which he had become so enraptured. Strolling along one day, he met with a
tall, gaunt Yankee, who knew him, and invited him into his log-cabin for a social glass and
a 'crack' after it. This semi-savage-looking fellow had been a soldier, and delighted, like
his guest, in the title of captain. He had been fighting in Mexico and California with the
'Injuns.' As he of Doty Island had a proposal to make to British sportsmen, so Captain Ezekiah
Conclin Brum had 'a proposal to make to the British government.' He had heard of our Cape and
Caffre war, and wondering how and why we did not make a shorter work of that awkward business,
he sent to England for a British infantry musket, which he produced. 'Well, captin, did ever
you see such a clumsy varment in all your born days? Now, captin, look out of the doorway:
do you see that blazed stump? It is seven feet high, and broader than any man. It's exactly
one hundred and fifty yards from my door. I have fired that clumsy varment at the stump till
my head ached and my shoulder was quite sore, and have hardly hit it once. Now, then, captin,
look 'ee here (taking up his seven-barrelled revolving rifle, and letting fly one barrel after
the other): I guess you will find seven bullets in the blazed stump. I will, however, stick
seven playing cards on the stump, in different places, and, if you choose, hit them all.' After
sundry but unaccepted offers to his English brother-militant for a trial of mutual destructiveness,
he made his offer to the British government through its representative, but which that loyal
subject, in a fit of mortification, declined to convey, on the ground that if he 'made the
finest offer in the world to the British government, they would only sneer' at him. However
(to give, as before, the substance of what is here detailed with amusing effect), the offer
of Captain Brum was to enlist 5000 Yankee marksmen, each armed with a seven-barrelled revolving
rifle, and kill 'all the Injuns' at the Cape in six months for the sum of 5,000,000 dollars!
'We should be ekal,' quoth he, 'to thirty thousand troops with such tarnal, stiff, clumsy consarns
as them reg'lation muskets is. We should do it slick, right away.' This may seem only a piece
of fun, but such it does not appear to the author, who turns from fun to facts and figures,
and calculates what would be the result of an encounter between English and American men-of-war,
if the latter had ten men in each top handling Captain Brum's weapon with Captain Brum's skill;
and the result he comes to is, that they could, in one minute and a half, dispose of 210 men
on the opposite deck. This would amount to the destruction of the whole crew stationed on the
upper deck! The undoubted possibility of such a summary mode of annihilating an enemy, must
soon change the system of warfare, and at least demands grave consideration. We make no comment
upon this, as we should be inclined to do were we not announcing the forebodings of a naval
officer, who must be supposed to see cause of apprehension before he would venture to express it.

Turning now to a more civil aspect of affairs than the picture of thirty death-dealing demons
in the tops of a Yankee frigate, let us see how they manage their aggressions upon the untamed
field and forest. During his various ramblings, our traveller's free-and-easy manner gained
him the confidence of several able and energetic men--an advantage which enabled him to peep
behind the scenes in many of the western movements. The following incident, which came under
his own knowledge, comes within the design of this article, which is to illustrate the go-aheadism
of our transatlantic cousins, and how they find the ways and means where other men fail.

Near Green Bay (in the aforesaid Garden of Eden), a small village suddenly peers out from the
woods. The site was chosen by one of those extraordinary men (educated pioneers), who had silently
selected a position, and established himself as proprietor before any one was acquainted with
his object. Once fixed, the working pioneers, well aware of the sagacity and ability of their
forerunner, begin to drop in likewise. In a few months, a town is laid out, and a population
makes its appearance. A plank-road is necessary, a charter is obtained, and a meeting summoned
of all interested in the said road. About a hundred persons attend; the charter is read; and
before it can become a valid instrument, 500 shares must be subscribed for, and one dollar
each paid up. The whole capital required is L.10,000--a sum which, probably, could not be mustered
in cash within a hundred miles. One citizen believes he can get the 500 dollars from a relative
in the Gennessee Valley. Who, then, is to take stock, and supply the sinews of war? There is
not ten dollars (cash) in the township. Up starts another, who has credit with a provision-merchant
down east, and offers to supply the workmen with pork, molasses, tea, and sugar, out of his
friend's store; making a speech at the same time. Others similarly pledged their credit for
shoes, soap, clothing, &c. The bulk of the meeting, consisting of hard-working 'bonnet-lairds,'
undertake to go to work immediately; taking for part-payment the necessaries of life, and receiving
road-stock for the balance. Without a cent of capital, they began a work which would eventually
cost 50,000 dollars, in full confidence that something would turn up to procure the wherewithal.
The beauty of the matter is, that the project succeeded. The road has not only quadrupled the
value of property all around, but it bids fair to pay a dividend in five years of 50 per cent.
If a steam-boat is wanted, it is acquired in the same way. Large vessels have been completely
built and equipped, without the owners possessing one farthing, and they have not only paid
for themselves, but have made handsome fortunes for the lucky and enterprising projectors.
Speculation of this kind, which would be justly deemed dishonourable in a settled country,
is apt to be less rigidly considered in the pioneers of a new world. What country can attempt
to cope with such energy and enterprise as this? It is frequently a subject of remark, that
men born in England, and educated in the States, are among the foremost in these enterprising
projects.

There are many other facts in these interesting volumes which we should like to call attention
to; but the reader who has accompanied us through this sketch cannot do better than read the
volumes themselves--only remembering, that the enthusiasm of his guide might have been considerably
moderated had he been an emigrant instead of a gentleman traveller.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Atlantic and Transatlantic Sketches, Afloat and Ashore. By Captain Mackinnon, R.N. 2 vols.
Colburn & Co. 1852.

[2] The America lost her laurels at Cowes a few weeks ago.

MRS GRIMSHAWE'S TREATISE ON HOLDFASTS.

I am ready to maintain, against all assailants of the position, that the person who can feel
so deep an interest in any of the works of God as to find, in the investigation of them, employment
for time which might otherwise hang a little heavily on hand, and occupation of an innocent
and even of a useful nature for an active mind, has a decided advantage over one who has no
such resource. And I further maintain, that there is not one single object in created nature,
from the drop of ditch-water which occupies the attention of Herr von Creep-crawl, up to the
'serried host' of angels and archangels who inhabit the realms of light, which does not present
matter worthy of the study and attention of an inquiring and intelligent mind. Having delivered
this defiance, I shall now ask my readers to take another walk round my garden, and examine
the climbers which cover my walls, and listen to my Treatise on Holdfasts, as I call those
appendages of plants which assist them in climbing.[3]

