Countless modifying influences will, of course, come into operation. For example, it has been
assumed, perhaps rashly, that the railway influence will certainly remain jealous and hostile
to these growths: that what may be called the "Bicycle Ticket Policy" will be pursued throughout.
Assuredly there will be fights of a very complicated sort at first, but once one of these specialized
lines is in operation, it may be that some at least of the railway companies will hasten to
replace their flanged rolling stock by carriages with rubber tyres, remove their rails, broaden
their cuttings and embankments, raise their bridges, and take to the new ways of traffic. Or
they may find it answer to cut fares, widen their gauges, reduce their gradients, modify their
points and curves, and woo the passenger back with carriages beautifully hung and sumptuously
furnished, and all the convenience and luxury of a club. Few people would mind being an hour
or so longer going to Paris from London, if the railway travelling was neither rackety, cramped,
nor tedious. One could be patient enough if one was neither being jarred, deafened, cut into
slices by draughts, and continually more densely caked in a filthy dust of coal; if one could
write smoothly and easily at a steady table, read papers, have one's hair cut, and dine in
comfort[9]--none of which things are possible at present, and none of which require any new
inventions, any revolutionary contrivances, or indeed anything but an intelligent application
of existing resources and known principles. Our rage for fast trains, so far as long-distance
travel is concerned, is largely a passion to end the extreme discomfort involved. It is in
the daily journey, on the suburban train, that daily tax of time, that speed is in itself so
eminently desirable, and it is just here that the conditions of railway travel most hopelessly
fail. It must always be remembered that the railway train, as against the motor, has the advantage
that its wholesale traction reduces the prime cost by demanding only one engine for a great
number of coaches. This will not serve the first-class long-distance passenger, but it may
the third. Against that economy one must balance the necessary delay of a relatively infrequent
service, which latter item becomes relatively greater and greater in proportion to the former,
the briefer the journey to be made.

And it may be that many railways, which are neither capable of modification into suburban motor
tracks, nor of development into luxurious through routes, will find, in spite of the loss of
many elements of their old activity, that there is still a profit to be made from a certain
section of the heavy goods traffic, and from cheap excursions. These are forms of work for
which railways seem to be particularly adapted, and which the diversion of a great portion
of their passenger traffic would enable them to conduct even more efficiently. It is difficult
to imagine, for example, how any sort of road-car organization could beat the railways at the
business of distributing coal and timber and similar goods, which are taken in bulk directly
from the pit or wharf to local centres of distribution.

It must always be remembered that at the worst the defeat of such a great organization as the
railway system does not involve its disappearance until a long period has elapsed. It means
at first no more than a period of modification and differentiation. Before extinction can happen
a certain amount of wealth in railway property must absolutely disappear. Though under the
stress of successful competition the capital value of the railways may conceivably fall, and
continue to fall, towards the marine store prices, fares and freights pursue the sweated working
expenses to the vanishing point, and the land occupied sink to the level of not very eligible
building sites: yet the railways will, nevertheless, continue in operation until these downward
limits are positively attained.

An imagination prone to the picturesque insists at this stage upon a vision of the latter days
of one of the less happily situated lines. Along a weedy embankment there pants and clangs
a patched and tarnished engine, its paint blistered, its parts leprously dull. It is driven
by an aged and sweated driver, and the burning garbage of its furnace distils a choking reek
into the air. A huge train of urban dust trucks bangs and clatters behind it, en route to that
sequestered dumping ground where rubbish is burnt to some industrial end. But that is a lapse
into the merely just possible, and at most a local tragedy. Almost certainly the existing lines
of railway will develop and differentiate, some in one direction and some in another, according
to the nature of the pressure upon them. Almost all will probably be still in existence and
in divers ways busy, spite of the swarming new highways I have ventured to foreshadow, a hundred
years from now.

In fact, we have to contemplate, not so much a supersession of the railways as a modification
and specialization of them in various directions, and the enormous development beside them
of competing and supplementary methods. And step by step with these developments will come
a very considerable acceleration of the ferry traffic of the narrow seas through such improvements
as the introduction of turbine engines. So far as the high road and the longer journeys go
this is the extent of our prophecy.[10]

But in the discussion of all questions of land locomotion one must come at last to the knots
of the network, to the central portions of the towns, the dense, vast towns of our time, with
their high ground values and their narrow, already almost impassable, streets. I hope at a
later stage to give some reasons for anticipating that the centripetal pressure of the congested
towns of our epoch may ultimately be very greatly relieved, but for the next few decades at
least the usage of existing conditions will prevail, and in every town there is a certain nucleus
of offices, hotels, and shops upon which the centrifugal forces I anticipate will certainly
not operate. At present the streets of many larger towns, and especially of such old-established
towns as London, whose central portions have the narrowest arteries, present a quite unprecedented
state of congestion. When the Green of some future History of the English People comes to review
our times, he will, from his standpoint of comfort and convenience, find the present streets
of London quite or even more incredibly unpleasant than are the filthy kennels, the mudholes
and darkness of the streets of the seventeenth century to our enlightened minds. He will echo
our question, "Why did people stand it?" He will be struck first of all by the omnipresence
of mud, filthy mud, churned up by hoofs and wheels under the inclement skies, and perpetually
defiled and added to by innumerable horses. Imagine his description of a young lady crossing
the road at the Marble Arch in London, on a wet November afternoon, "breathless, foul-footed,
splashed by a passing hansom from head to foot, happy that she has reached the further pavement
alive at the mere cost of her ruined clothes."... "Just where the bicycle might have served
its most useful purpose," he will write, "in affording a healthy daily ride to the innumerable
clerks and such-like sedentary toilers of the central region, it was rendered impossible by
the danger of side-slip in this vast ferocious traffic." And, indeed, to my mind at least,
this last is the crowning absurdity of the present state of affairs, that the clerk and the
shop hand, classes of people positively starved of exercise, should be obliged to spend yearly
the price of a bicycle upon a season-ticket, because of the quite unendurable inconvenience
and danger of urban cycling.

Now, in what direction will matters move? The first and most obvious thing to do, the thing
that in many cases is being attempted and in a futile, insufficient way getting itself done,
the thing that I do not for one moment regard as the final remedy, is the remedy of the architect
and builder--profitable enough to them, anyhow--to widen the streets and to cut "new arteries."
Now, every new artery means a series of new whirlpools of traffic, such as the pensive Londoner
may study for himself at the intersection of Shaftesbury Avenue with Oxford Street, and unless
colossal--or inconveniently steep--crossing-bridges are made, the wider the affluent arteries
the more terrible the battle of the traffic. Imagine Regent's Circus on the scale of the Place
de la Concorde. And there is the value of the ground to consider; with every increment of width
the value of the dwindling remainder in the meshes of the network of roads will rise, until
to pave the widened streets with gold will be a mere trifling addition to the cost of their
"improvement."

There is, however, quite another direction in which the congestion may find relief, and that
is in the "regulation" of the traffic. This has already begun in London in an attack on the
crawling cab and in the new bye-laws of the London County Council, whereby certain specified
forms of heavy traffic are prohibited the use of the streets between ten and seven. These things
may be the first beginning of a process of restriction that may go far. Many people living
at the present time, who have grown up amidst the exceptional and possibly very transient characteristics
of this time, will be disposed to regard the traffic in the streets of our great cities as
a part of the natural order of things, and as unavoidable as the throng upon the pavement.
But indeed the presence of all the chief constituents of this vehicular torrent--the cabs and
hansoms, the vans, the omnibuses--everything, indeed, except the few private carriages--are
as novel, as distinctively things of the nineteenth century, as the railway train and the needle
telegraph. The streets of the great towns of antiquity, the streets of the great towns of the
East, the streets of all the mediæval towns, were not intended for any sort of wheeled traffic
at all--were designed primarily and chiefly for pedestrians. So it would be, I suppose, in
any one's ideal city. Surely Town, in theory at least, is a place one walks about as one walks
about a house and garden, dressed with a certain ceremonious elaboration, safe from mud and
the hardship and defilement of foul weather, buying, meeting, dining, studying, carousing,
seeing the play. It is the growth in size of the city that has necessitated the growth of this
coarser traffic that has made "Town" at last so utterly detestable.

But if one reflects, it becomes clear that, save for the vans of goods, this moving tide of
wheeled masses is still essentially a stream of urban pedestrians, pedestrians who, by reason
of the distances they have to go, have had to jump on 'buses and take cabs--in a word, to bring
in the high road to their aid. And the vehicular traffic of the street is essentially the high
road traffic very roughly adapted to the new needs. The cab is a simple development of the
carriage, the omnibus of the coach, and the supplementary traffic of the underground and electric
railways is a by no means brilliantly imagined adaptation of the long-route railway. These
are all still new things, experimental to the highest degree, changing and bound to change
much more, in the period of specialization that is now beginning.

Now, the first most probable development is a change in the omnibus and the omnibus railway.
A point quite as important with these means of transit as actual speed of movement is frequency:
time is wasted abundantly and most vexatiously at present in waiting and in accommodating one's
arrangements to infrequent times of call and departure. The more frequent a local service,
the more it comes to be relied upon. Another point--and one in which the omnibus has a great
advantage over the railway--is that it should be possible to get on and off at any point, or
at as many points on the route as possible. But this means a high proportion of stoppages,
and this is destructive to speed. There is, however, one conceivable means of transit that
is not simply frequent but continuous, that may be joined or left at any point without a stoppage,
that could be adapted to many existing streets at the level or quite easily sunken in tunnels,
or elevated above the street level,[11] and that means of transit is the moving platform, whose
possibilities have been exhibited to all the world in a sort of mean caricature at the Paris
Exhibition. Let us imagine the inner circle of the district railway adapted to this conception.
I will presume that the Parisian "rolling platform" is familiar to the reader. The district
railway tunnel is, I imagine, about twenty-four feet wide. If we suppose the space given to
six platforms of three feet wide and one (the most rapid) of six feet, and if we suppose each
platform to be going four miles an hour faster than its slower fellow (a velocity the Paris
experiment has shown to be perfectly comfortable and safe), we should have the upper platform
running round the circle at a pace of twenty-eight miles an hour. If, further, we adopt an
ingenious suggestion of Professor Perry's, and imagine the descent to the line made down a
very slowly rotating staircase at the centre of a big rotating wheel-shaped platform, against
a portion of whose rim the slowest platform runs in a curve, one could very easily add a speed
of six or eight miles an hour more, and to that the man in a hurry would be able to add his
own four miles an hour by walking in the direction of motion. If the reader is a traveller,
and if he will imagine that black and sulphurous tunnel, swept and garnished, lit and sweet,
with a train much faster than the existing underground trains perpetually ready to go off with
him and never crowded--if he will further imagine this train a platform set with comfortable
seats and neat bookstalls and so forth, he will get an inkling in just one detail of what he
perhaps misses by living now instead of thirty or forty years ahead.

I have supposed the replacement to occur in the case of the London Inner Circle Railway, because
there the necessary tunnel already exists to help the imagination of the English reader, but
that the specific replacement will occur is rendered improbable by the fact that the circle
is for much of its circumference entangled with other lines of communication--the North-Western
Railway, for example. As a matter of fact, as the American reader at least will promptly see,
the much more practicable thing is that upper footpath, with these moving platforms beside
it, running out over the street after the manner of the viaduct of an elevated railroad. But
in some cases, at any rate, the demonstrated cheapness and practicability of tunnels at a considerable
depth will come into play.

Will this diversion of the vast omnibus traffic of to-day into the air and underground, together
with the segregation of van traffic to specific routes and times, be the only change in the
streets of the new century? It may be a shock, perhaps, to some minds, but I must confess I
do not see what is to prevent the process of elimination that is beginning now with the heavy
vans spreading until it covers all horse traffic, and with the disappearance of horse hoofs
and the necessary filth of horses, the road surface may be made a very different thing from
what it is at present, better drained and admirably adapted for the soft-tired hackney vehicles
and the torrent of cyclists. Moreover, there will be little to prevent a widening of the existing
side walks, and the protection of the passengers from rain and hot sun by awnings, or such
arcades as distinguish Turin, or Sir F. Bramwell's upper footpaths on the model of the Chester
rows. Moreover, there is no reason but the existing filth why the roadways should not have
translucent velaria to pull over in bright sunshine and wet weather. It would probably need
less labour to manipulate such contrivances than is required at present for the constant conflict
with slush and dust. Now, of course, we tolerate the rain, because it facilitates a sort of
cleaning process....

Enough of this present speculation. I have indicated now the general lines of the roads and
streets and ways and underways of the Twentieth Century. But at present they stand vacant in
our prophecy, not only awaiting the human interests--the characters and occupations, and clothing
of the throng of our children and our children's children that flows along them, but also the
decorations our children's children's taste will dictate, the advertisements their eyes will
tolerate, the shops in which they will buy. To all that we shall finally come, and even in
the next chapter I hope it will be made more evident how conveniently these later and more
intimate matters follow, instead of preceding, these present mechanical considerations. And
of the beliefs and hopes, the thought and language, the further prospects of this multitude
as yet unborn--of these things also we shall make at last certain hazardous guesses. But at
first I would submit to those who may find the "machinery in motion" excessive in this chapter,
we must have the background and fittings--the scene before the play.[12]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] In the earlier papers, of which this is the first, attention will be given to the probable
development of the civilized community in general. Afterwards these generalizations will be
modified in accordance with certain broad differences of race, custom, and religion.

[2] Of quite serious forecasts and inductions of things to come, the number is very small indeed;
a suggestion or so of Mr. Herbert Spencer's, Mr. Kidd's Social Evolution, some hints from Mr.
Archdall Reid, some political forecasts, German for the most part (Hartmann's Earth in the
Twentieth Century, e.g.), some incidental forecasts by Professor Langley (Century Magazine,
December, 1884, e.g.), and such isolated computations as Professor Crookes' wheat warning,
and the various estimates of our coal supply, make almost a complete bibliography. Of fiction,
of course, there is abundance: Stories of the Year 2000, and Battles of Dorking, and the like--I
learn from Mr. Peddie, the bibliographer, over one hundred pamphlets and books of that description.
But from its very nature, and I am writing with the intimacy of one who has tried, fiction
can never be satisfactory in this application. Fiction is necessarily concrete and definite;
it permits of no open alternatives; its aim of illusion prevents a proper amplitude of demonstration,
and modern prophecy should be, one submits, a branch of speculation, and should follow with
all decorum the scientific method. The very form of fiction carries with it something of disavowal;
indeed, very much of the Fiction of the Future pretty frankly abandons the prophetic altogether,
and becomes polemical, cautionary, or idealistic, and a mere footnote and commentary to our
present discontents.

[3] It might have been used in the same way in Italy in the first century, had not the grandiose
taste for aqueducts prevailed.

[4] And also into the Cornwall mines, be it noted.

