They arrived at last.  Going to see London was such an event to them, that Mrs. Chadwick had
made all new linen fresh for the occasion-from night-caps downwards; and, as for gowns, ribbons,
and collars, she might have been going into the wilds of Canada where never a shop is, so large
was her stock.  A fortnight before the day of her departure for London, she had formally called
to take leave of all her acquaintance; saying she should need all the intermediate time for
packing up.  It was like a second wedding in her imagination; and, to complete the resemblance
which an entirely new wardrobe made between the two events, her husband brought her back from
Manchester, on the last market-day before they set off, a gorgeous pearl and amethyst brooch,
saying, "Lunnon should see that Lancashire folks knew a handsome thing when they saw it."

For some time after Mr. and Mrs. Chadwick arrived at the Openshaws', there was no opportunity
for wearing this brooch; but at length they obtained an order to see Buckingham Palace, and
the spirit of loyalty demanded that Mrs. Chadwick should wear her best clothes in visiting
the abode of her sovereign.  On her return, she hastily changed her dress; for Mr. Openshaw
had planned that they should go to Richmond, drink tea and return by moonlight.  Accordingly,
about five o'clock, Mr. and Mrs. Openshaw and Mr. and Mrs. Chadwick set off.

The housemaid and cook sate below, Norah hardly knew where.  She was always engrossed in the
nursery, in tending her two children, and in sitting by the restless, excitable Ailsie till
she fell asleep.  Bye-and- bye, the housemaid Bessy tapped gently at the door.  Norah went
to her, and they spoke in whispers.

"Nurse! there's some one down-stairs wants you."

"Wants me!  Who is it?"

"A gentleman--"

"A gentleman?  Nonsense!"

"Well! a man, then, and he asks for you, and he rung at the front door bell, and has walked
into the dining-room."

"You should never have let him," exclaimed Norah, "master and missus out--"

"I did not want him to come in; but when he heard you lived here, he walked past me, and sat
down on the first chair, and said, 'Tell her to come and speak to me.'  There is no gas lighted
in the room, and supper is all set out."

"He'll be off with the spoons!" exclaimed Norah, putting the housemaid's fear into words, and
preparing to leave the room, first, however, giving a look to Ailsie, sleeping soundly and calmly.

Down-stairs she went, uneasy fears stirring in her bosom.  Before she entered the dining-room
she provided herself with a candle, and, with it in her hand, she went in, looking round her
in the darkness for her visitor.

He was standing up, holding by the table.  Norah and he looked at each other; gradual recognition
coming into their eyes.

"Norah?" at length he asked.

"Who are you?" asked Norah, with the sharp tones of alarm and incredulity.  "I don't know you:"
trying, by futile words of disbelief, to do away with the terrible fact before her.

"Am I so changed?" he said, pathetically.  "I daresay I am.  But, Norah, tell me!" he breathed
hard, "where is my wife?  Is she--is she alive?"

He came nearer to Norah, and would have taken her hand; but she backed away from him; looking
at him all the time with staring eyes, as if he were some horrible object.  Yet he was a handsome,
bronzed, good-looking fellow, with beard and moustache, giving him a foreign-looking aspect;
but his eyes! there was no mistaking those eager, beautiful eyes--the very same that Norah
had watched not half-an-hour ago, till sleep stole softly over them.

"Tell me, Norah--I can bear it--I have feared it so often.  Is she dead?" Norah still kept
silence.   "She is dead!"  He hung on Norah's words and looks, as if for confirmation or contradiction.

"What shall I do?" groaned Norah.  "O, sir! why did you come? how did you find me out? where
have you been?  We thought you dead, we did, indeed!" She poured out words and questions to
gain time, as if time would help her.

"Norah! answer me this question, straight, by yes or no--Is my wife dead?"

"No, she is not!" said Norah, slowly and heavily.

"O what a relief!  Did she receive my letters?  But perhaps you don't know.  Why did you leave
her?  Where is she?  O Norah, tell me all quickly!"

"Mr. Frank!" said Norah at last, almost driven to bay by her terror lest her mistress should
return at any moment, and find him there--unable to consider what was best to be done or said-rushing
at something decisive, because she could not endure her present state: "Mr. Frank! we never
heard a line from you, and the shipowners said you had gone down, you and every one else. 
We thought you were dead, if ever man was, and poor Miss Alice and her little sick, helpless
child!  O, sir, you must guess it," cried the poor creature at last, bursting out into a passionate
fit of crying, "for indeed I cannot tell it.  But it was no one's fault.  God help us all this
night!"

Norah had sate down.  She trembled too much to stand.  He took her hands in his.  He squeezed
them hard, as if by physical pressure, the truth could be wrung out.

"Norah!"  This time his tone was calm, stagnant as despair.  "She has married again!"

Norah shook her head sadly.  The grasp slowly relaxed.  The man had fainted.

There was brandy in the room.  Norah forced some drops into Mr. Frank's mouth, chafed his hands,
and--when mere animal life returned, before the mind poured in its flood of memories and thoughts--she
lifted him up, and rested his head against her knees.  Then she put a few crumbs of bread taken
from the supper-table, soaked in brandy into his mouth.  Suddenly he sprang to his feet.

"Where is she?  Tell me this instant."  He looked so wild, so mad, so desperate, that Norah
felt herself to be in bodily danger; but her time of dread had gone by.  She had been afraid
to tell him the truth, and then she had been a coward.  Now, her wits were sharpened by the
sense of his desperate state.  He must leave the house.  She would pity him afterwards; but
now she must rather command and upbraid; for he must leave the house before her mistress came
home.  That one necessity stood clear before her.

"She is not here; that is enough for you to know.  Nor can I say exactly where she is" (which
was true to the letter if not to the spirit).  "Go away, and tell me where to find you to-morrow,
and I will tell you all. My master and mistress may come back at any minute, and then what
would become of me with a strange man in the house?"

Such an argument was too petty to touch his excited mind.

"I don't care for your master and mistress.  If your master is a man, he must feel for me poor
shipwrecked sailor that I am--kept for years a prisoner amongst savages, always, always, always
thinking of my wife and my home--dreaming of her by night, talking to her, though she could
not hear, by day.  I loved her more than all heaven and earth put together. Tell me where she
is, this instant, you wretched woman, who salved over her wickedness to her, as you do to me."

The clock struck ten.  Desperate positions require desperate measures.

"If you will leave the house now, I will come to you to-morrow and tell you all.  What is more,
you shall see your child now.  She lies sleeping up-stairs.  O, sir, you have a child, you
do not know that as yet--a little weakly girl--with just a heart and soul beyond her years.
We have reared her up with such care: We watched her, for we thought for many a year she might
die any day, and we tended her, and no hard thing has come near her, and no rough word has
ever been said to her.  And now you, come and will take her life into your hand, and will crush
it.  Strangers to her have been kind to her; but her own father--Mr. Frank, I am her nurse,
and I love her, and I tend her, and I would do anything for her that I could.  Her mother's
heart beats as hers beats; and, if she suffers a pain, her mother trembles all over.  If she
is happy, it is her mother that smiles and is glad.  If she is growing stronger, her mother
is healthy: if she dwindles, her mother languishes.  If she dies--well, I don't know: it is
not every one can lie down and die when they wish it. Come up-stairs, Mr. Frank, and see your
child.  Seeing her will do good to your poor heart.  Then go away, in God's name, just this
one night-to- morrow, if need be, you can do anything--kill us all if you will, or show yourself--a
great grand man, whom God will bless for ever and ever.  Come, Mr. Frank, the look of a sleeping
child is sure to give peace."

She led him up-stairs; at first almost helping his steps, till they came near the nursery door.
She had almost forgotten the existence of little Edwin.  It struck upon her with affright as
the shaded light fell upon the other cot; but she skilfully threw that corner of the room into
darkness, and let the light fall on the sleeping Ailsie.  The child had thrown down the coverings,
and her deformity, as she lay with her back to them, was plainly visible through her slight
night-gown.  Her little face, deprived of the lustre of her eyes, looked wan and pinched, and
had a pathetic expression in it, even as she slept.  The poor father looked and looked with
hungry, wistful eyes, into which the big tears came swelling up slowly, and dropped heavily
down, as he stood trembling and shaking all over.  Norah was angry with herself for growing
impatient of the length of time that long lingering gaze lasted.  She thought that she waited
for full half-an-hour before Frank stirred.  And then--instead of going away--he sank down
on his knees by the bedside, and buried his face in the clothes.  Little Ailsie stirred uneasily.
Norah pulled him up in terror.  She could afford no more time even for prayer in her extremity
of fear; for surely the next moment would bring her mistress home.  She took him forcibly by
the arm; but, as he was going, his eye lighted on the other bed: he stopped.  Intelligence
came back into his face.  His hands clenched.

"His child?" he asked.

"Her child," replied Norah.  "God watches over him," said she instinctively; for Frank's looks
excited her fears, and she needed to remind herself of the Protector of the helpless.

"God has not watched over me," he said, in despair; his thoughts apparently recoiling on his
own desolate, deserted state.  But Norah had no time for pity.  To-morrow she would be as compassionate
as her heart prompted.  At length she guided him downstairs and shut the outer door and bolted
it--as if by bolts to keep out facts.

Then she went back into the dining-room and effaced all traces of his presence as far as she
could.  She went upstairs to the nursery and sate there, her head on her hand, thinking what
was to come of all this misery.  It seemed to her very long before they did return; yet it
was hardly eleven o'clock.  She so heard the loud, hearty Lancashire voices on the stairs;
and, for the first time, she understood the contrast of the desolation of the poor man who
had so lately gone forth in lonely despair.

It almost put her out of patience to see Mrs. Openshaw come in, calmly smiling, handsomely
dressed, happy, easy, to inquire after her children.

"Did Ailsie go to sleep comfortably?" she whispered to Norah.

"Yes."

Her mother bent over her, looking at her slumbers with the soft eyes of love.  How little she
dreamed who had looked on her last!  Then she went to Edwin, with perhaps less wistful anxiety
in her countenance, but more of pride.  She took off her things, to go down to supper.  Norah
saw her no more that night.

Beside the door into the passage, the sleeping-nursery opened out of Mr. and Mrs. Openshaw's
room, in order that they might have the children more immediately under their own eyes.  Early
the next summer morning Mrs. Openshaw was awakened by Ailsie's startled call of "Mother! mother!"
She sprang up, put on her dressing-gown, and went to her child.  Ailsie was only half awake,
and in a not uncommon state of terror.

"Who was he, mother?  Tell me!"

"Who, my darling?  No one is here.  You have been dreaming love.  Waken up quite.  See, it
is broad daylight."

"Yes," said Ailsie, looking round her; then clinging to her mother, said, "but a man was here
in the night, mother."

"Nonsense, little goose.  No man has ever come near you!"

"Yes, he did.  He stood there.  Just by Norah.  A man with hair and a beard.  And he knelt
down and said his prayers.  Norah knows he was here, mother" (half angrily, as Mrs. Openshaw
shook her head in smiling incredulity).

"Well! we will ask Norah when she comes," said Mrs. Openshaw, soothingly. "But we won't talk
any more about him now.  It is not five o'clock; it is too early for you to get up.  Shall
I fetch you a book and read to you?"

"Don't leave me, mother," said the child, clinging to her.  So Mrs. Openshaw sate on the bedside
talking to Ailsie, and telling her of what they had done at Richmond the evening before, until
the little girl's eyes slowly closed and she once more fell asleep.

"What was the matter?" asked Mr. Openshaw, as his wife returned to bed. "Ailsie wakened up
in a fright, with some story of a man having been in the room to say his prayers,--a dream,
I suppose."  And no more was said at the time.

Mrs. Openshaw had almost forgotten the whole affair when she got up about seven o'clock.  But,
bye-and-bye, she heard a sharp altercation going on in the nursery.  Norah speaking angrily
to Ailsie, a most unusual thing. Both Mr. and Mrs. Openshaw listened in astonishment.

"Hold your tongue, Ailsie I let me hear none of your dreams; never let me hear you tell that
story again!" Ailsie began to cry.

Mr. Openshaw opened the door of communication before his wife could say a word.

"Norah, come here!"

The nurse stood at the door, defiant.  She perceived she had been heard, but she was desperate.

"Don't let me hear you speak in that manner to Ailsie again," he said sternly, and shut the door.

Norah was infinitely relieved; for she had dreaded some questioning; and a little blame for
sharp speaking was what she could well bear, if cross- examination was let alone.

Down-stairs they went, Mr. Openshaw carrying Ailsie; the sturdy Edwin coming step by step,
right foot foremost, always holding his mother's hand.  Each child was placed in a chair by
the breakfast-table, and then Mr. and Mrs. Openshaw stood together at the window, awaiting
their visitors' appearance and making plans for the day.  There was a pause. Suddenly Mr. Openshaw
turned to Ailsie, and said:

"What a little goosy somebody is with her dreams, waking up poor, tired mother in the middle
of the night with a story of a man being in the room."

"Father!  I'm sure I saw him," said Ailsie, half crying.  "I don't want to make Norah angry;
but I was not asleep, for all she says I was.  I had been asleep,--and I awakened up quite
wide awake though I was so frightened.  I kept my eyes nearly shut, and I saw the man quite
plain.  A great brown man with a beard.  He said his prayers.  And then he looked at Edwin.
And then Norah took him by the arm and led him away, after they had whispered a bit together."

"Now, my little woman must be reasonable," said Mr. Openshaw, who was always patient with Ailsie.
"There was no man in the house last night at all.  No man comes into the house as you know,
if you think; much less goes up into the nursery.  But sometimes we dream something has happened,
and the dream is so like reality, that you are not the first person, little woman, who has
stood out that the thing has really happened."

"But, indeed it was not a dream!" said Ailsie, beginning to cry.

Just then Mr. and Mrs. Chadwick came down, looking grave and discomposed. All during breakfast
time they were silent and uncomfortable.  As soon as the breakfast things were taken away,
and the children had been carried up-stairs, Mr. Chadwick began in an evidently preconcerted
manner to inquire if his nephew was certain that all his servants were honest; for, that Mrs.
Chadwick had that morning missed a very valuable brooch, which she had worn the day before.
She remembered taking it off when she came home from Buckingham Palace.  Mr. Openshaw's face
contracted into hard lines: grew like what it was before he had known his wife and her child.
He rang the bell even before his uncle had done speaking.  It was answered by the housemaid.

"Mary, was any one here last night while we were away?"

"A man, sir, came to speak to Norah."

"To speak to Norah!  Who was he?  How long did he stay?"

"I'm sure I can't tell, sir.  He came--perhaps about nine.  I went up to tell Norah in the
nursery, and she came down to speak to him.  She let him out, sir.  She will know who he was,
and how long he stayed."

She waited a moment to be asked any more questions, but she was not, so she went away.

A minute afterwards Openshaw made as though he were going out of the room; but his wife laid
her hand on his arm:

"Do not speak to her before the children," she said, in her low, quiet voice.  "I will go up
and question her."

"No!  I must speak to her.  You must know," said he, turning to his uncle and aunt, "my missus
has an old servant, as faithful as ever woman was, I do believe, as far as love goes,--but,
at the same time, who does not always speak truth, as even the missus must allow.  Now, my
notion is, that this Norah of ours has been come over by some good-for-nothin chap (for she's
at the time o' life when they say women pray for husbands--'any, good Lord, any,') and has
let him into our house, and the chap has made off with your brooch, and m'appen many another
thing beside.  It's only saying that Norah is soft-hearted, and does not stick at a white lie--that's
all, missus."

It was curious to notice how his tone, his eyes, his whole face changed as he spoke to his
wife; but he was the resolute man through all.  She knew better than to oppose him; so she
went up-stairs, and told Norah her master wanted to speak to her, and that she would take care
of the children in the meanwhile.

Norah rose to go without a word.  Her thoughts were these:

"If they tear me to pieces they shall never know through me.  He may come,--and then just Lord
have mercy upon us all: for some of us are dead folk to a certainty.  But he shall do it; not me."

You may fancy, now, her look of determination as she faced her master alone in the dining-room;
Mr. and Mrs. Chadwick having left the affair in their nephew's hands, seeing that he took it
up with such vehemence.

"Norah!  Who was that man that came to my house last night?"

"Man, sir!"  As if infinitely; surprised but it was only to gain time.

"Yes; the man whom Mary let in; whom she went up-stairs to the nursery to tell you about; whom
you came down to speak to; the same chap, I make no doubt, whom you took into the nursery to
have your talk out with; whom Ailsie saw, and afterwards dreamed about; thinking, poor wench!
she saw him say his prayers, when nothing, I'll be bound, was farther from his thoughts; who
took Mrs. Chadwick's brooch, value ten pounds.  Now, Norah! Don't go off!  I am as sure as
that my name's Thomas Openshaw, that you knew nothing of this robbery.  But I do think you've
been imposed on, and that's the truth.  Some good-for-nothing chap has been making up to you,
and you've been just like all other women, and have turned a soft place in your heart to him;
and he came last night a-lovyering, and you had him up in the nursery, and he made use of his
opportunities, and made off with a few things on his way down!  Come, now, Norah: it's no blame
to you, only you must not be such a fool again.  Tell us," he continued, "what name he gave
you, Norah?  I'll be bound it was not the right one; but it will be a clue for the police."

Norah drew herself up.  "You may ask that question, and taunt me with my being single, and
with my credulity, as you will, Master Openshaw.  You'll get no answer from me.  As for the
brooch, and the story of theft and burglary; if any friend ever came to see me (which I defy
you to prove, and deny), he'd be just as much above doing such a thing as you yourself, Mr.
Openshaw, and more so, too; for I'm not at all sure as everything you have is rightly come
by, or would be yours long, if every man had his own."  She meant, of course, his wife; but
he understood her to refer to his property in goods and chattels.

"Now, my good woman," said he, "I'll just tell you truly, I never trusted you out and out;
but my wife liked you, and I thought you had many a good point about you.  If you once begin
to sauce me, I'll have the police to you, and get out the truth in a court of justice, if you'll
not tell it me quietly and civilly here.  Now the best thing you can do is quietly to tell
me who the fellow is.  Look here! a man comes to my house; asks for you; you take him up-stairs,
a valuable brooch is missing next day; we know that you, and Mary, and cook, are honest; but
you refuse to tell us who the man is.  Indeed you've told one lie already about him, saying
no one was here last night.  Now I just put it to you, what do you think a policeman would
say to this, or a magistrate?  A magistrate would soon make you tell the truth, my good woman."

"There's never the creature born that should get it out of me," said Norah.  "Not unless I
choose to tell."

"I've a great mind to see," said Mr. Openshaw, growing angry at the defiance.  Then, checking
himself, he thought before he spoke again:

"Norah, for your missus's sake I don't want to go to extremities.  Be a sensible woman, if
you can.  It's no great disgrace, after all, to have been taken in.  I ask you once more--as
a friend--who was this man whom you let into my house last night?"

No answer.  He repeated the question in an impatient tone.  Still no answer.  Norah's lips
were set in determination not to speak.

"Then there is but one thing to be done.  I shall send for a policeman."

"You will not," said Norah, starting forwards.  "You shall not, sir!  No policeman shall touch
me.  I know nothing of the brooch, but I know this: ever since I was four-and-twenty I have
thought more of your wife than of myself: ever since I saw her, a poor motherless girl put
upon in her uncle's house, I have thought more of serving her than of serving myself! I have
cared for her and her child, as nobody ever cared for me.  I don't cast blame on you, sir,
but I say it's ill giving up one's life to any one; for, at the end, they will turn round upon
you, and forsake you.  Why does not my missus come herself to suspect me?  Maybe she is gone
for the police?  But I don't stay here, either for police, or magistrate, or master.  You're
an unlucky lot.  I believe there's a curse on you.  I'll leave you this very day.  Yes!  I
leave that poor Ailsie, too.  I will! No good will ever come to you!"

Mr. Openshaw was utterly astonished at this speech; most of which was completely unintelligible
to him, as may easily be supposed.  Before he could make up his mind what to say, or what to
do, Norah had left the room.  I do not think he had ever really intended to send for the police
to this old servant of his wife's; for he had never for a moment doubted her perfect honesty.
But he had intended to compel her to tell him who the man was, and in this he was baffled.
He was, consequently, much irritated.  He returned to his uncle and aunt in a state of great
annoyance and perplexity, and told them he could get nothing out of the woman; that some man
had been in the house the night before; but that she refused to tell who he was.  At this moment
his wife came in, greatly agitated, and asked what had happened to Norah; for that she had
put on her things in passionate haste, and had left the house.

"This looks suspicious," said Mr. Chadwick.  "It is not the way in which an honest person would
have acted."

Mr. Openshaw kept silence.  He was sorely perplexed.  But Mrs. Openshaw turned round on Mr.
Chadwick with a sudden fierceness no one ever saw in her before.

"You don't know Norah, uncle!  She is gone because she is deeply hurt at being suspected. 
O, I wish I had seen her--that I had spoken to her myself.  She would have told me anything."
Alice wrung her hands.

"I must confess," continued Mr. Chadwick to his nephew, in a lower voice, "I can't make you
out.  You used to be a word and a blow, and oftenest the blow first; and now, when there is
every cause for suspicion, you just do nought.  Your missus is a very good woman, I grant;
but she may have been put upon as well as other folk, I suppose.  If you don't send for the
police, I shall."

"Very well," replied Mr. Openshaw, surlily.  "I can't clear Norah.  She won't clear herself,
as I believe she might if she would.  Only I wash my hands of it; for I am sure the woman herself
is honest, and she's lived a long time with my wife, and I don't like her to come to shame."

"But she will then be forced to clear herself.  That, at any rate, will be a good thing."

"Very well, very well!  I am heart-sick of the whole business.  Come, Alice, come up to the
babies they'll be in a sore way.  I tell you, uncle!" he said, turning round once more to Mr.
Chadwick, suddenly and sharply, after his eye had fallen on Alice's wan, tearful, anxious face;
"I'll have none sending for the police after all.  I'll buy my aunt twice as handsome a brooch
this very day; but I'll not have Norah suspected, and my missus plagued.  There's for you."

He and his wife left the room.  Mr. Chadwick quietly waited till he was out of hearing, and
then aid to his wife; "For all Tom's heroics, I'm just quietly going for a detective, wench.
Thou need'st know nought about it."

He went to the police-station, and made a statement of the case.  He was gratified by the impression
which the evidence against Norah seemed to make.  The men all agreed in his opinion, and steps
were to be immediately taken to find out where she was.  Most probably, as they suggested,
she had gone at once to the man, who, to all appearance, was her lover.  When Mr. Chadwick
asked how they would find her out? they smiled, shook their heads, and spoke of mysterious
but infallible ways and means.  He returned to his nephew's house with a very comfortable opinion
of his own sagacity.  He was met by his wife with a penitent face:

"O master, I've found my brooch!  It was just sticking by its pin in the flounce of my brown
silk, that I wore yesterday.  I took it off in a hurry, and it must have caught in it; and
I hung up my gown in the closet.  Just now, when I was going to fold it up, there was the brooch!
I'm very vexed, but I never dreamt but what it was lost!"

Her husband muttering something very like "Confound thee and thy brooch too!  I wish I'd never
given it thee," snatched up his hat, and rushed back to the station; hoping to be in time to
stop the police from searching for Norah.  But a detective was already gone off on the errand.

Where was Norah?  Half mad with the strain of the fearful secret, she had hardly slept through
the night for thinking what must be done.  Upon this terrible state of mind had come Ailsie's
questions, showing that she had seen the Man, as the unconscious child called her father. 
Lastly came the suspicion of her honesty.  She was little less than crazy as she ran up-stairs
and dashed on her bonnet and shawl; leaving all else, even her purse, behind her.  In that
house she would not stay.  That was all she knew or was clear about.  She would not even see
the children again, for fear it should weaken her.  She feared above everything Mr. Frank's
return to claim his wife.  She could not tell what remedy there was for a sorrow so tremendous,
for her to stay to witness.  The desire of escaping from the coming event was a stronger motive
for her departure than her soreness about the suspicions directed against her; although this
last had been the final goad to the course she took.  She walked away almost at headlong speed;
sobbing as she went, as she had not dared to do during the past night for fear of exciting
wonder in those who might hear her. Then she stopped.  An idea came into her mind that she
would leave London altogether, and betake herself to her native town of Liverpool.  She felt
in her pocket for her purse, as she drew near the Euston Square station with this intention.
She had left it at home.  Her poor head aching, her eyes swollen with crying, she had to stand
still, and think, as well as she could, where next she should bend her steps.  Suddenly the
thought flashed into her mind that she would go and find out poor Mr. Frank.  She had been
hardly kind to him the night before, though her heart had bled for him ever since.  She remembered
his telling her as she inquired for his address, almost as she had pushed him out of the door,
of some hotel in a street not far distant from Euston Square.  Thither she went: with what
intention she hardly knew, but to assuage her conscience by telling him how much she pitied
him.  In her present state she felt herself unfit to counsel, or restrain, or assist, or do
ought else but sympathise and weep.  The people of the inn said such a person had been there;
had arrived only the day before; had gone out soon after his arrival, leaving his luggage in
their care; but had never come back.  Norah asked for leave to sit down, and await the gentleman's
return.  The landlady--pretty secure in the deposit of luggage against any probable injury--showed
her into a room, and quietly locked the door on the outside.  Norah was utterly worn out, and
fell asleep--a shivering, starting, uneasy slumber, which lasted for hours.

The detective, meanwhile, had come up with her some time before she entered the hotel, into
which he followed her.  Asking the landlady to detain her for an hour or so, without giving
any reason beyond showing his authority (which made the landlady applaud herself a good deal
for having locked her in), he went back to the police-station to report his proceedings.  He
could have taken her directly; but his object was, if possible, to trace out the man who was
supposed to have committed the robbery.  Then he heard of the discovery of the brooch; and
consequently did not care to return.

Norah slept till even the summer evening began to close in.  Then up. Some one was at the door.
It would be Mr. Frank; and she dizzily pushed back her ruffled grey hair, which had fallen
over her eyes, and stood looking to see him.  Instead, there came in Mr. Openshaw and a policeman.

"This is Norah Kennedy," said Mr. Openshaw.

"O, sir," said Norah, "I did not touch the brooch; indeed I did not.  O, sir, I cannot live
to be thought so badly of;" and very sick and faint, she suddenly sank down on the ground.
To her surprise, Mr. Openshaw raised her up very tenderly.  Even the policeman helped to lay
her on the sofa; and, at Mr. Openshaw's desire, he went for some wine and sandwiches; for the
poor gaunt woman lay there almost as if dead with weariness and exhaustion.

"Norah!" said Mr. Openshaw, in his kindest voice, "the brooch is found. It was hanging to Mrs.
Chadwick's gown.  I beg your pardon.  Most truly I beg your pardon, for having troubled you
about it.  My wife is almost broken-hearted.  Eat, Norah,--or, stay, first drink this glass
of wine," said he, lifting her head, pouring a little down her throat.

As she drank, she remembered where she was, and who she was waiting for. She suddenly pushed
Mr. Openshaw away, saying, "O, sir, you must go.  You must not stop a minute.  If he comes
back he will kill you."

"Alas, Norah!  I do not know who 'he' is.  But some one is gone away who will never come back:
someone who knew you, and whom I am afraid you cared for."

"I don't understand you, sir," said Norah, her master's kind and sorrowful manner bewildering
her yet more than his words.  The policeman had left the room at Mr. Openshaw's desire, and
they two were alone.

"You know what I mean, when I say some one is gone who will never come back.  I mean that he
is dead!"

"Who?" said Norah, trembling all over.

"A poor man has been found in the Thames this morning, drowned."

"Did he drown himself?" asked Norah, solemnly.

"God only knows," replied Mr. Openshaw, in the same tone.  "Your name and address at our house,
were found in his pocket: that, and his purse, were the only things, that were found upon him.
I am sorry to say it, my poor Norah; but you are required to go and identify him."

"To what?" asked Norah.

"To say who it is.  It is always done, in order that some reason may be discovered for the
suicide--if suicide it was.  I make no doubt he was the man who came to see you at our house
last night.  It is very sad, I know."  He made pauses between each little clause, in order
to try and bring back her senses; which he feared were wandering--so wild and sad was her look.

"Master Openshaw," said she, at last, "I've a dreadful secret to tell you--only you must never
breathe it to any one, and you and I must hide it away for ever.  I thought to have done it
all by myself, but I see I cannot.  Yon poor man--yes! the dead, drowned creature is, I fear,
Mr. Frank, my mistress's first husband!"

Mr. Openshaw sate down, as if shot.  He did not speak; but, after a while, he signed to Norah
to go on.

"He came to me the other night--when--God be thanked--you were all away at Richmond.  He asked
me if his wife was dead or alive.  I was a brute, and thought more of our all coming home than
of his sore trial: spoke out sharp, and said she was married again, and very content and happy:
I all but turned him away: and now he lies dead and cold!"

"God forgive me!" said Mr. Openshaw.

"God forgive us all!" said Norah.  "Yon poor man needs forgiveness perhaps less than any one
among us.  He had been among the savages--shipwrecked--I know not what--and he had written
letters which had never reached my poor missus."

"He saw his child!"

"He saw her--yes!  I took him up, to give his thoughts another start; for I believed he was
going mad on my hands.  I came to seek him here, as I more than half promised.  My mind misgave
me when I heard he had never come in.  O, sir I it must be him!"

Mr. Openshaw rang the bell.  Norah was almost too much stunned to wonder at what he did.  He
asked for writing materials, wrote a letter, and then said to Norah:

"I am writing to Alice, to say I shall be unavoidably absent for a few days; that I have found
you; that you are well, and send her your love, and will come home to-morrow.  You must go
with me to the Police Court; you must identify the body: I will pay high to keep name; and
details out of the papers.

"But where are you going, sir?"

He did not answer her directly.  Then he said:

