Faint-hearted men and women shook their heads, and said: "Be prudent. You know Great Britain
has scores of ships of war, and we have not one; how can we hope to win in such a contest?"

Stout-hearted men and women replied, "We will buy or build ships, make warriors of them, man
them with hardy New England fishermen, and with the faith of little David meet the Goliath
of England, trusting in the Lord, who will defend the right."

And the people said, "Amen."

The Congress appointed a "Marine Committee"--a sort of distributed Secretary of the Navy. They
ordered more than a dozen war vessels to be built. Officers were appointed, crews were gathered,
and Esek Hopkins, a seaman of Rhode Island, then almost sixty years of age, was made Commodore
and Commander-in-chief of the Continental Navy. This was the germ of the United States Navy.

Early in 1776 Hopkins sailed from the Delaware to the Bahama Islands, with four ships and three
sloops. At New Providence he captured the forts, nearly one hundred cannon, and a large quantity
of ammunition and stores. On his return he fought several British vessels, captured two, and
took his little squadron safely into the harbor of New London, Connecticut. Not doing so well
as the Congress desired, he was soon afterward relieved of command, and no successor was appointed.

John Paul Jones, a little Scotchman less than thirty years of age, was one of the most active
officers of this Continental Navy, and became the most conspicuous marine hero of the old war
for independence. He was the first who raised an American flag over an American vessel of war,
in December, 1775; and in various ships he gained such great renown that after the war he received
special honors from the French monarch, became Vice-Admiral in the Russian navy, and when he
died, the government of France decreed him a public funeral.

There were other Americans at that time who became naval heroes only a little less famous than
Jones. There was John Manly, the veteran sailor of Marblehead, whom Washington appointed Captain
when he fitted out some privateers at Boston before a navy was created. While the Congress
were talking about a navy, Manly was cruising off the coast of Massachusetts in the armed schooner
Lee, keenly watching for British vessels laden with military supplies for the army in Boston.
He captured three of them laden with arms and munitions of war, then much needed by the patriots
who were besieging the New England capital.

There was young Nicholas Biddle, who had served with Nelson in the Royal Navy, and who accompanied
Hopkins to the Bahamas. He did gallant service as commander of the Randolph, until she was
blown up in battle, when Biddle and all his men perished.

There was Captain Wilkes, with the little Reprisal, of sixteen guns, who frightened all England
by his daring exploits. After fighting British armed vessels, and taking several prizes in
the West Indies, he took Dr. Franklin, the representative of the Congress, to France. Then
he cruised in the Bay of Biscay, captured a number of English merchantmen, and with the Reprisal
and two or three other small vessels, sailed entirely around Ireland, sweeping the Channel
its whole length, destroying a number of merchant vessels, and creating great alarm in all
the British ports. Poor Wilkes perished soon afterward with all his crew when his ship was
wrecked on the rocks of Newfoundland.

New England privateers were very busy and successful, capturing no less than thirty vessels
laden with supplies for the British army in Boston. Among the most active of these was a little
Connecticut cruiser of fourteen guns, named the Defense. She took prize after prize; and on
a starry night in June, 1776, she, with some other small vessels, fought and conquered two
British transports near Boston, laden with two hundred soldiers and a large quantity of stores.
By midsummer (1776), American cruisers had captured more than five hundred British soldiers.

Captain Whipple, a bold Rhode-Islander, who, when a British naval commander threatened by letter
to hang him "to the yard-arm" for an offense against the majesty of Great Britain, replied,
"Catch a man before you hang him," was in command of the Continental vessel Doria. He was so
successful off the coasts of New England, that when, he returned to the Delaware his prizes
were so numerous, that, after manning them, he had only five of his original crew left on board
the Doria.

The gallant Jones meanwhile had swept the seas along the coasts of Nova Scotia, and sailed
into Newport Harbor with fifteen prizes. After resting on his laurels awhile, he was again
on the Acadian coast late in 1776, where he captured a large British transport laden with supplies
for Burgoyne's army in Canada. By this time cruisers sent out by Congress and privateers were
harrying British shipping in all directions.

Dr. Franklin carried with him to France a number of blank commissions for army and navy officers,
signed by the President and Secretary of Congress. These Franklin and the other Commissioners
filled and signed, and under this authority cruisers sailed from French ports to attack British
vessels. It must be remembered that France at that time, in order to injure her old enemy,
England, was giving secret aid to the Americans in revolt.

How active and how harmful to the British marine were some of the cruisers commissioned by
Franklin and his associates, and sent out from French ports, we shall observe presently.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

[Begun in YOUNG PEOPLE No. 31, June 1.]

THE MORAL PIRATES.

BY W. L. ALDEN.

CHAPTER VII.

The sun was getting to be rather too hot for boating, when the boys saw the half-sunken wreck
of a canal-boat close to the west shore, where there was a nice shady grove. They immediately
crossed the river, and, landing near the wreck, began to get their fishing-tackle in order.

As there were only two poles, one of which belonged to Harry and the other to Tom, the two
Sharpe boys were obliged either to cut poles for themselves, or to watch the others while they
fished. Jim cut a pole for himself, but Joe preferred to lie on the bank. "I don't care to
fish, anyhow," he said. "I'll agree to eat twice as much fish as anybody else, if I can be
excused from fishing."

"If you don't want to fish, you'd better hunt bait for us," said Tom.

"I never thought about bait," exclaimed Harry. "How are we going to dig for worms without a spade?"

"Who wants any worms?" replied Tom. "Grasshoppers are the thing; and the field just back of
here is full of them. Come, Joe, catch us some grasshoppers, won't you?"

"How many do you want?" asked Joe. "I don't want to waste good grasshoppers on fellows who
won't use them. Let's see: suppose I get you ten grasshoppers apiece. Will that do?"

"Are you getting lazy, Joe?" said Tom, "or are you sick? A fellow who don't want to fish must
have something wrong in his insides. Harry, you'd better give him some medicine."

"Oh, I'm all right," replied Joe. "I'm a little sleepy to-day, but I'll get your grasshoppers."

Joe took an empty tin can and went in search of grasshoppers, while the rest were getting their
hooks and lines ready. In a short time he returned, and handed the can to Tom.

"There's just thirty-one grasshoppers in that can," said he. "I threw in one for good measure.
Now go ahead and fish, and I'll have a nap." So saying, he stretched himself on the ground,
and the other boys began to fish.

There were quantities of perch near the old canal-boat, and they bit ravenously at the grasshoppers.
It took only about a quarter of an hour to catch nearly three dozen fish. These were more than
the boys could possibly eat; and Tom was just going to remark that they had better stop fishing,
when they were startled by a loud cry from Joe. Harry, in swinging his line over his head so
as to cast out a long way into the river, had succeeded in hooking Joe in the right ear.

Of course Harry was extremely sorry, and he said so several times; but, as Joe pointed out,
"talk won't pull a hook out of a fellow's ear." The barb made it impracticable to draw the
hook out, and it was quite impossible that Joe should enjoy the cruise with a fish-hook in
his ear. Jim said that the hook must be cut out; but Joe objected to having his ear cut to
pieces with a dull jack-knife.

In this emergency, Tom proposed to break off the shank of the hook, and then to push the remainder
of it through the ear. It was no easy matter, however, to break the steel. Every time the hook
was touched Joe winced with pain; but finally Tom managed to break the shank with the aid of
the pair of pliers that formed part of the stores. The hook was then gently and firmly pressed
through the ear, and carefully drawn out.

"I knew," said Tom, "that something must be wrong when Joe said he didn't want to fish. This
ought to be a warning to him."

"It's a warning to me," said Harry, "not to throw my line all over the State of New York."

"Oh, it's all right now," said Joe. "Only the next time I go cruising with Harry, I'm going
to take a pair of cutting pincers to cut off the shanks of fish-hooks after he gets through
fishing. We'd better get a pair at Hudson, anyhow, or else we'll all be stuck full of hooks,
if Harry does any more fishing."

Harry was so humbled by the result of his carelessness that he offered, by way of penance,
to clean and cook the fish. When this was done, and the fish were served up smoking hot, they
were so good that Joe forgot his damaged ear, and Harry recovered his spirits. After a course
of fish and bread, a can of peaches was opened for dessert, and then followed a good long rest.
By three o'clock the heat began to lessen, and the Whitewing started on her way with a better
breeze than she had yet been favored with.

The boat travelled swiftly, and the breeze gradually freshened. The whitecaps were beginning
to make their appearance on the river before it occurred to the boys that they must cross over
to the east shore, in order to camp where they could find shade while getting breakfast the
next morning. It had been one of Uncle John's most earnest bits of advice that they should
always have shade in the morning. "Nothing spoils the temper," he had said, "like cooking under
a bright sun; so make sure that you keep in the shade until after breakfast." Harry felt a
little nervous about crossing the river in so fresh a breeze, since, as the breeze blew from
the south, the boat could not sail directly across the river without bringing the sea on her
beam. He did not mention that he was nervous, however, and he showed excellent judgment in
crossing the river diagonally, so as to avoid exposing the broadside of the boat to the waves,
that by this time were unpleasantly high. The east bank was thus reached without taking a drop
of water into the boat, and she was then kept on her course up the river, within a few rods
of the shore.

This was a wise precaution in one respect; for if the boat had capsized, the boys could easily
have swum ashore; but still it is always risky to keep close to the shore, unless you know
that there are no rocks or snags in the way. Harry never thought of the danger of being shipwrecked
with the shore so close at hand, and was enjoying the cooling breeze and the speed of the boat,
when suddenly the Whitewing brought up with a crash that pitched everybody into the bottom
of the boat. She had struck a sunken rock, and the speed at which she was going was so great
that one of her planks was stove in. Before the boys could pick themselves up, the water had
rushed in, and was rising rapidly.

"Jump overboard everybody!" cried Harry. "She won't float with us in her."

There was no time in which to pull off shirts and trousers, and the boys plunged overboard
without even taking their hats off. They then took hold of the boat, two on each side of her,
and swam toward the shore. With so much water in her, the boat was tremendously heavy; but
the boys persevered, and finally reached shallow water, where they could wade and drag her
out on the sand.

"Here we are wet again!" exclaimed Jim. "The blankets are wet too this time."

"Never mind," replied Tom; "it's not more than five o'clock, and we can get them dry before night."

"We'll have to work pretty fast, then," said Harry. "Jim and Joe had better build a big fire,
and dry the things, while you and I empty the boat; or I'll empty the boat, and you can pitch
the tent. We'll have to put off supper till we can make sure of a dry bed."

Harry took the things out of the boat one by one. Everything was wet except the contents of
the tin boxes, into which the water luckily had not penetrated. As soon as the fire was built,
Jim and Joe gave their whole attention to drying the blankets and the spare clothing; and when
the boat was emptied, it was found that a hole nearly six inches long and four inches wide
had been made through one of the bottom planks. Harry and Tom set to work to mend it. They
took a piece of canvas--which had luckily been kept in one of the tin boxes, and was quite
dry--and tacked it neatly over the outside of the hole.

They next covered the canvas with a thin coating of white lead, except at the edges, where
the white lead was laid on very thickly. Over the canvas the piece of zinc that had been brought
for just such a purpose was carefully tacked, and then thin strips of wood were placed over
the edges of the tin, and screwed down tightly with screws that went through the zinc, but
not through the canvas. Finally, white lead was put all around the outer edge of the zinc,
and the boat was then left bottom-side up on the sand, so that the white lead could harden
by exposure to the air.

Nobody cared to go for milk in wet clothes; and so, when the boat was mended, the boys all
sat around the fire to dry themselves, and made a supper of crackers. What with the heat and
the wind, it was not very long before their clothes and blankets were thoroughly dried, and
they could look forward to a comfortable night. The tent was pitched where no steamboat swell
could possibly touch it, and the boat was apparently out of reach of the tide. It was very
early when the boys "turned in," and for the first time in the cruise they slept peacefully
all night.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

THE MANGOSTEEN.

During their stay upon the island of Java, Dr. Bronson and his young travelling companions
took a trip on a railway from Batavia to Buitenzorg, in order that they might learn something
of the interior of the island. While on this trip the boys observed, among other things, that
the trees in some instances grew quite close to the track. Doctor Bronson explained to them
that in the tropics it was no small matter to keep a railway line clear of trees and vines,
and sometimes the vines would grow over the track in a single night. It was necessary to keep
men at work along the track to cut away the vegetation where it threatened to interfere with
the trains, and in the rainy season the force of men was sometimes doubled. "There is one good
effect," said he, "of this luxuriant growth. The roots of the vines and trees become interlaced
in the embankment on which the road is built, and prevent its being washed away by heavy rains.
So you see there is, after all, a saving in keeping the railway in repair."

At several of the stations the natives offered fruit of different kinds, and nearly all new
to our young friends. They had been told that they would probably find the mangosteen for sale
along the road; they had inquired for it in Singapore, but it was not in season there, and
now their thoughts were bent upon discovering it between Batavia and Buitenzorg. Two or three
times they were disappointed when they asked for it; but finally, at one of the stations, when
Fred pronounced the word "mangosteen," a native held up a bunch of fruit, and nodded. The Doctor
looked at the bunch, and nodded likewise, and Fred speedily paid for the prize.

Perhaps we had best let Fred tell the story of the mangosteen, which he did in his first letter
from Buitenzorg:

"We have found the prince of fruits, and its name is mangosteen. It is about the size of a
pippin apple, and of a purple color--a very dark purple, too. The husk, or rind, is about half
an inch thick, and contains a bitter juice, which is used in the preparation of dye; it stains
the fingers like aniline ink, and is not easy to wash off. Nature has wisely provided this
protection for the fruit; if it had no more covering than the ordinary skin of an apple, the
birds would eat it all up as soon as it was ripe. If I were a bird, and had a bill that would
open the mangosteen, I would eat nothing else as long as I could get at it.

"You cut this husk with a sharp knife right across the centre, and then you open it in two
parts. Out comes a lump of pulp as white as snow, and about the size of a small peach. It is
divided into sections, like the interior of an orange, and there is a sort of star on the outside
that tells you, before you cut the husk, exactly how many of these sections there are. Having
got at the pulp, you proceed to take the lump into your mouth, and eat it; and you will be
too busy for the next quarter of a minute to say anything.

"Hip! hip! hurrah! It melts away in your mouth like an overripe peach or strawberry; it has
a taste that is slightly acid--very slightly, too--but you can no more describe all the flavor
of it than you can describe how a canary sings, or a violet smells. There is no other fruit
I ever tasted that begins to compare with it, though I hesitate to admit that there is anything
to surpass our American strawberry in its perfection, or the American peach. If you could get
all the flavors of our best fruits in one, and then give that one the 'meltingness' of the
mangosteen, perhaps you might equal it; but till you can do so, there is no use denying that
the tropics have the prince of fruits.

"Everybody tells us we can eat all the mangosteens we wish to, without the slightest fear of
ill results. Perhaps one might get weary of them in time, but at present we are unable to find
enough of them. If anything would reconcile me to a permanent residence in the tropics, it
would be the hope of always having plenty of mangosteens at my command.

"You may think," Fred added, "that I have taken a good deal of space for describing this fruit,
but I assure you I have not occupied half what it deserves. And if you were here, you would
agree with me, and be willing to give it all the space at your command--in and beyond your
mouth. But be careful and have it fully ripe: green mangosteens are apt to produce colic, as
Frank can tell you of his own knowledge."

ROBINSON CRUSOE'S ISLAND.

The island of Juan Fernandez has always been said to be the island on which Robinson Crusoe
was cast away. Nothing can be further from the truth. Crusoe never saw Juan Fernandez, and,
so far as we know, never once so much as thought of casting himself away there.

No man has ever charged Robinson Crusoe with not telling the truth. He may have had his faults--and
he certainly did show very little judgment when he built his first boat so far from the shore
that he could not possibly launch it--but he always told the truth. We ought therefore to believe
what he says about the situation of his island. He informs me that, having sailed from Brazil
on a voyage to the coast of Guinea, he was driven northward by stormy weather, and was finally
wrecked somewhere between the mouth of the river Orinoco and the Caribbean or West India islands.
Now the island of Juan Fernandez is in the Pacific Ocean, about three hundred and sixty miles
southwest of Valparaiso. To suppose that Crusoe was wrecked on Juan Fernandez, while on his
way from Brazil to Guinea, is like saying that a ship on her way from New York to Liverpool
was wrecked on one of the Sandwich Islands. Such a story would be perfectly absurd. However,
when we have Crusoe's word that he was cast away near the mouth of the Orinoco, there is an
end of the matter. He probably could not have told a lie if he had tried to.

In the year 1704 an English vessel called the Cinque Ports came to Juan Fernandez. One of her
officers, Alexander Selkirk by name, had quarrelled with the Captain, and he said he would
much rather stay on this island than sail any longer on board the Cinque Ports. The Captain
was glad to get rid of him, and therefore sailed away, and left him behind. What Selkirk and
the Captain had quarrelled about has never been certainly known, but when we reflect that Selkirk
was a Scotchman, we can understand that very likely he was unwilling to practice piracy on
Sunday, while the captain insisted that any day was a fit day on which to rob a Spanish ship.
This would have led to a quarrel, and very possibly was the precise cause of the quarrel which
resulted in Selkirk leaving the ship at Juan Fernandez. It is true that the Cinque Ports was
called a buccaneer, instead of a pirate, but no man can see the difference between buccaneering
and piracy without the help of a large-sized compound microscope.

Selkirk remained all alone on the island for four years and four months, when another English
vessel took him off. When he reached home, he wrote an account of his adventures, and very
stupid people have since claimed that Daniel Defoe, the author of the story of Crusoe's adventures,
had read Selkirk's book, and that it suggested to him the idea of inventing Robinson Crusoe.
To suppose that so great a man as Defoe could not write a book without stealing his ideas from
Alexander Selkirk is ridiculous. Selkirk and Crusoe were as unlike as two men could well be.
The only resemblance between them was that both had lived alone on unfrequented islands, as
many other unfortunate men have done before and since.

We thus see how it came to pass that people have mixed up Selkirk's island with Crusoe's island,
and have finally convinced themselves that Crusoe was wrecked on Juan Fernandez. Selkirk's
island is firmly believed by nearly everybody to have been Crusoe's island, though we might
just as well call it Smith's or Jones's island.

It must be admitted that Juan Fernandez is a beautiful island, with every convenience that
Crusoe could have wished for, except cannibals. Selkirk, however, could do nothing with it.
He did contrive to catch goats by running after them until they were tired out, but he never
thought of taming them--fattening them on tomato cans--as Crusoe did. Of course he never had
a Man Friday, and he never built himself a canoe, or periagua. In fact, he did very little
that was creditable to him, and there is only too much reason to believe that if he had seen
a foot-step on the sand, he would not have known that it was his duty to be terribly frightened.

Juan Fernandez is about sixteen miles long and five and a half miles wide. The shore, especially
on the northern side, is steep and rocky. The interior is very picturesque, and contains several
beautiful valleys separated by high ridges. On the north side of the island is a very steep
mountain of lava, which is eight thousand feet high, the top of which is said to be inaccessible.
Part way up this mountain is the place where Selkirk used to watch for passing vessels. In
one of the valleys there is a cave where Selkirk lived. It is thirty feet in length and about
twenty feet in breadth, with a ceiling of nearly twenty feet in height. While it is a fair
substantial cave, it can not be compared for a moment with the cave which Crusoe had on his
own island, and which he enlarged with so much perseverance.

The island belongs to Chili, and more than a hundred years ago the Chilian government sent
convicts to Juan Fernandez as a punishment. A fort was built, which has now crumbled away,
and cells were dug in the solid rock on the side of a hill, and the convicts were locked up
in them every night. The convicts, not liking their treatment, rebelled, killed their guards,
and seizing on a vessel that had visited the island, escaped to Peru. Since then Juan Fernandez,
or Mas-a-tierra, as the Chilians call it, has been inhabited by a few Chilian farmers, who
raise, with very little labor, food enough to live on. They also catch fish, which they send
to the mainland, and at certain seasons of the year they kill large quantities of seals, which
frequent a little rocky island half a mile from Juan Fernandez. At the present time the island
is governed by a Mr. Rhode, who rents it from the Chilian government, and proposes to raise
quantities of cattle.

In 1868 the British man-of-war Topaz touched at Juan Fernandez, and
her officers erected an iron tablet in honor of Selkirk.
  This tablet is erected near Selkirk's Look-out by Commodore
  Powell and the officers of H. M. S. Topaz, A.D. 1868.

As there is excellent water at Juan Fernandez, vessels occasionally touch there to fill their
casks, but it has no regular communication with the rest of the world.

Of course Juan Fernandez will always continue to be called Robinson Crusoe's island, though
it is certain that Crusoe was never within three or four thousand miles of it. As for the unbelieving
people who pretend that Robinson Crusoe never lived, nobody should listen to them for a moment.
There never was anybody more thoroughly real than Robinson Crusoe. Selkirk was not half so
real; and in comparison with the shipwrecked mariner of Hull, Julius Cæsar was grossly improbable.
Crusoe's island undoubtedly exists somewhere "near the mouth of the great river Orinoco."

PHILEMON'S CIRCUS.

BY MARY DENSEL.

"--together with fifes and drums. The gigantic procession, headed by the stupendous gilded
chariot, will move through the town at seven o'clock A.M. precisely,'" ended Tom Tadgers, quoting
from the handbills.

"Through this town?" asked Philemon, much excited.

Tom Tadgers gave him a withering glance.

"Do you suppose that N. Ticeum and B. Phoolum's 'Great Moral Show,' with 'six tigers, five
elephants, a giraffe, hippopotamus, kangaroo, in-nu-mer-a-ble monkeys, wild men of Borneo,
living skeleton, educated bull, and a ship of the desert,' would come to a mean little village
like this? Skowhegan's the town it's going to move through, and it will pass Tucker's Corner
at five o'clock to-morrow morning. So Silas Elder says to me, 'You get into the back of my
milk cart, Tadgers'" (Tommy felt deeply the dignity of being "Tadgers"), "'and I'll give you
a lift as far as the Corner, Tadgers. Then you can follow the procession, and go to the show
at Skowhegan, Tadgers,' says he. Now, Philemon, how would you like to come along too?"

"And Romeo Augustus with me?" questioned Philemon, eagerly.

Tadgers shook his head.

"Come by yourself, or not at all," said he, firmly. "What's more, you must be on hand by four
o'clock to-morrow morning."

How could Philemon wake at that early hour? It was his wont not only to "sleep like a top all
night," but also to "sleep at morn."

Tom, however, agreed to manage that. So when Philemon went to bed at night, it was with one
end of a piece of stout twine tied to his ankle, while the other end hung out at the open window.

Neither Elias, John, nor Romeo Augustus, who shared his chamber, spied the cord. Philemon waited
till they were sound asleep before he arranged it.

The sun had not begun to show his face above the horizon when there came a brisk twitch on
the twine. Philemon was broad awake in a twinkling, and rolled out of bed to dance a one-footed
ballet, by reason of a series of jerks given to the cord by the sprightly Thomas below. It
was only after Philemon had knocked over two chairs and a cricket that he managed to hop wildly
to the window, and to call out in a hoarse whisper, "You'll wake the whole house if you don't
quit," that Tom condescended to desist; and a few minutes later the two comrades were climbing
into the back of Silas Elder's cart, all ready to start for "The Great Moral Show."

The cart was not spacious, and its springs were few and far between, as Philemon's bones bore
witness. He began, all at once, to wonder if it might not have been polite to have mentioned
to his parents that he intended to be absent the greater part of the day.

He recollected, with a pang, that it was his mother's custom to be anxious when one of her
six precious boys was long out of her sight.

Suddenly, "Look there! there! there!" shouted Tom Tadgers.

Sure enough; there--there--there, in the distance, was a caravan moving slowly toward Tucker's
Corner. It must be--it is N. Ticeum and B. Phoolum's show.

Nearer and nearer it came. Tom and Philemon jumped out of the cart, that they might be ready
to join the "gigantic procession."

And now they were in its midst. To be sure, the glories of "the stupendous gilded chariot"
were shrouded by brown canvas; the monkeys, tigers, and the hippopotamus were shut up in their
cages; neither were the giraffe and kangaroo visible as yet. But here were the elephants marching
majestically along; here was the educated bull, with a ring through his nose; and so near that
Philemon could have touched him was the living skeleton in all his enchanting leanness.

Philemon actually danced up and down in ecstasy. The man who seemed to have charge of affairs
caught sight of his beaming face, and broke into a good-natured laugh.

"Hallo, my little chap, would ye like a ride to-day?" said he, and before Philemon knew what
was going to happen, he found himself astride of the back of a huge gray elephant.

Was there ever such a morning! It did seem as if the sun fairly outdid itself, such billows
of light did it pour forth. The rollicking breeze danced round and about the caravan, and would
by no means be left behind. The corn in Farmer Tucker's field waved its silken tassels in a
delighted frenzy. All the golden-rod and asters were alert to see the sight.

At last the coverings were taken from the gilded chariot; fifes and drums struck up a tune.
All the Skowhegan boys came flocking out of town to meet the caravan. Some one put an American
flag into Philemon's hand. What an honor! The lad's heart swelled with pride. He held his head
high. He was actually a part of "The Great Moral Show."

So absorbed was he in his new dignity that he did not notice that they were nearing the bridge
which stretched across the Kennebec River, just outside of Skowhegan. Neither did he observe
that the elephants were separating themselves from the rest of the train, until, just as the
gilded chariot passed on the bridge, the animal Philemon rode broke into a trot--and what a
trot!--starting down the river-bank, followed by the other four elephants. Philemon clung with
both his hands.

Into the stream plunged the beasts, wading clumsily along until the water was breast-high,
when they began to swim. Philemon stuck like a little burr to the gray back.

At last the elephants gained a foot-hold once more. But they were by no means ready to give
up the cool water. They snorted; they tramped; they plunged; they sucked the water into their
trunks, and poured it out again in great streams. Never had Philemon had such a shower-bath.
One of the elephants lay down and rolled playfully over and over. Philemon was frightened nearly
out of his wits: suppose his elephant should do likewise? Instead of that, he rose to within
a few feet of the bank, and, having first treated his rider to a few extra bucketfuls of water,
twisted his trunk round one of Philemon's legs.

There was a jerk, a dizzy whirl through the air, and our friend lay "high," but by no means
"dry," upon the earth.

The crowd gathered round. He heard Tom Tadgers's voice in a terrified wail: "He's dead! he's dead!"

Then some one else spoke: "Bring water."

That was adding insult to injury. Up as straight as a ramrod sat the afflicted Philemon. "If
anybody dares to put another drop of water on me, I'll--I'll--I'll go home!" gasped he.

There was a burst of merriment at that tremendous threat, and the young hero was lifted on
some one's shoulder, and borne along in triumph. Strange to say, he was not even bruised, and
he almost forgot his mishap, when, an hour later, he was permitted to help in spreading tan
around the open space where Madame Lucetta Almazida was to ride the famous horse Pegasus, and
perform her "world-renowned feat" of jumping through seventeen hoops and a "barrel wrapped
in flames."

That noon Philemon was actually invited to dine with Mons. Duval, the "incomparable gymnast,"
and a host of other circus celebrities.

"You're a plucky little fellow, and fit to feed along o' us," said Mons. Duval, with a grin.

Philemon was much pleased by the compliment, which, though perchance not expressed in the most
refined language, showed a kindly appreciation of his merits.

He entirely forgot Tom Tadgers, who, not having had the luck to meet with an accident, was
left outside. In fact, Philemon saw Tom no more that day, and the latter, at the close of the
afternoon, met Silas Elder once more, and rode peacefully home, where he went to bed, quite
omitting to say a word to anybody about Philemon.

In the mean time that worthy ate his dinner with his new companions. He wondered vaguely what
his mother would say if she knew where he was.

He might have wondered more had not one of the men poured a yellow liquid into a cup, and handed
it to him.

"Drink this, my man," said he.

Then everybody laughed. The liquid was sweet. Philemon liked it. He drank every drop. Soon
he began to feel very bright and merry; and when a new song was sung he joined lustily in the
chorus. He had a clear, high, ringing voice.

"Bless us!" exclaimed Mons. Duval. "Tip us a song yourself, boy."

Not a whit abashed, Philemon began to sing.

"Ha! ha! ha!" laughed Mons. Duval. "Tim Luker, what used to do our first tribble, was took
sick this morning. What d'ye say, youngster, to being blacked up, and singing this evening
to the circus along o' our minstrel troupe?"

That yellow liquid was in Philemon's blood. His eyes sparkled, his cheeks flamed.

"Yes, I'll sing," cried he, boisterously, "and I'll go to the ends of the earth with you."

After dinner--it was strange--he felt very drowsy. Mons. Duval, for some reason, was extremely
amused, and considered it a great joke.

"You lay down here and take a nap," he said, and actually took off his own coat to put over
Philemon. The boy slept all that afternoon; indeed, he never opened his eyes till it was nearly
time for the evening's entertainment to begin.

The big dingy tent where the performance was to come off was lighted. Philemon followed Mons.
Duval into the small tent behind the large one, where those who were to take part awaited their
several turns.

