The whole occurrence must be so contrived as to wear the appearance of a pure accident to the
onlookers, should there be any. Shouting and an exchange of abuse on both parts should sound
very true. Then the drogher, getting herself clear, would proceed innocently to the custom-house
steps, where all such coasters had to report themselves on arrival. "Never fear. We shall put
in some loud and scandalous cursing," Sebright assured me. "The boys will greatly enjoy that
part, I dare say."

Remained to consider the purpose of the schooner that had come out of Rio Medio to hang on
our skirts. It was doubtful whether it was in our power to shake her off. Sebright was full
of admiration for her sailing qualities, coupled with infinite contempt for the "lubberly gang
on board."

"If I had the handling of her, now," he said, "I would take my position as near as I liked,
and stick there. It seems almost as if she would do it of herself, if those imbeciles would
only let her have her own way. I never yet saw a Spaniard, good or bad, that was anything of
a sailor. As it is, we may maintain a distance that would make it difficult for them to see
what we are about. And if not, then--why, you must take your leave of us at night."

He didn't know that, but for the dismalness of such a departure, it were not just as well.
Who could tell what eyes might be watching on shore?

"You know I never pretended my plan was quite safe. But have you got another?"

I made no answer, because I had no other, and could not think of one. Incredible as it may
appear, not only my heart, but my mind, also, in the awakened comprehension of my love, refused
to grapple with difficulties. My thoughts raced ahead of ships and pursuing men, into a dream
of cloudless felicity without end. And I don't think Sebright expected any suggestion from
me. This took place during one of our busy talks--only he and I--alone in his cabin. He had
been washing his hands, making ready for tea.

"Do you know," he said, turning full on me, and wiping his fingers carefully with a coarse
towel--"do you know, I shouldn't wonder if that schooner were not keeping watch on us, in suspicion
of just some such move on our part. 'Tis extraordinary how clever the greatest fool may show
himself sometimes. Only, with their lubberly Spanish seamanship, they would expect us, probably,
to make a whole ceremony of your landing: ship hove to for hours close in shore, a boat going
off to land and returning, and all such pother. 'We are sure to see their little show,' they
think to themselves. Eh? What? Whereas we shall keep well clear of the land when the time comes,
and drop you in the dark without as much check on our way as there is in the wink of an eye.
Hey?... Mind, Mr. Kemp, you take the boat out of sight up that little river, in case they should
have a fancy, as they go along after us, to peep into that inlet. As I have said it wouldn't
do to trust too much in any fool's folly."

And now the time was approaching; the time to awake and step forth out of the temple of sunshine
and love--of whispers and silences. It had come. The night before both Williams and Sebright
had been on deck, working the ship with an anxious care to take the utmost advantage of every
favouring flaw in the contrary breeze. In the morning I was told there was a norther brewing.
A norther is a tempestuous gale. I saw no signs of it. The realm of the sun, like the vanished
one of the stars, appeared to my senses to be profoundly asleep, and breathing as gently as
a child upon the ship. The Lion, too, seemed to lie wrapped in an enchanted slumber from the
water-line to the tops of her upright masts. And yet she moved with the breath of the world,
but so imperceptibly that it was the coast that seemed to be nearing her like a line of low
vapour blown along the water. Between Williams and Sebright Castro pointed with his one arm,
and a splutter of guttural syllables fell like hail out of his lips. The other two seemed incredulous.
He stamped with both his feet angrily. Finally they went below together, to look at the chart,
I suppose. They came up again very fast, one after another, and stood in a row, looking on
as before. Three more dissimilar human beings it would have been difficult to imagine.

Dazzling white patches, about the size of a man's hand, came out between sky and water. They
grew in width, and ran together with a hummocky outline into a continuous undulation of sand-dunes.
Here and there this rampart had a gap like a breach made by guns. Mrs. Williams, behind me,
blew her nose faintly; her eyes were red, but she did not look at us. No eye was turned our
way, and the spell of the coast was on her, too. A low, dark headland broke out to view through
the dunes, and stood there conspicuous amongst the heaps of dazzling sand, like a small man
frowning. A voice on deck pronounced:

"That's right. Here's his landmark. The fellow knew very well what he was talking about."

It was Sebright's voice, and Castro, strolling away triumphantly, affected to turn his back
on the land. He had recognized the formation of the coast about the inlet long before anybody
else could distinguish the details. His word had been doubted. He was offended, and passed
us by, wrapping himself up closely. One of Seraphina's locks blew against my cheek, and this
last effort of the breeze remained snared in the silken meshes of her hair.

"There's not enough wind to fill the sail of a toy boat," grumbled Sebright; "and you can't
pull this heavy gig ashore with only that one-armed man at the other oar." He was sorry he
could not send us off with four good rowers. The norther might be coming on before they could
return to the ship, and--apart from the presence of four English sailors on the coast being
sure to get talked about--there was the difficulty in getting them back on board in Havana.
We could, no doubt, smuggle ourselves in; but six people would make too much of a show. On
the other hand, the absence of four men out of the ship's company could not be accounted for
very well to the authorities. "We can't say they all died, and we threw them overboard. It
would be too startling. No; you must go alone, and leave us at the first breath of wind; and
that, I fear, 'll be the first of the norther, too."

He threw his head back, and hailed, "Do you see anything of that schooner from aloft there?"

"Nothing of her, sir," answered a man perched, with dangling feet, astride the very end of
the topsail yard-arm. He paused, scanned the space from under the flat of his hand, and added,
shouting with deliberation, "There's--a--haze--to seaward, sir." The ship, with her decks sprinkled
over with men in twos and threes, sent up to his ears a murmur of satisfaction.

If we could not see her, she could not see us. This was a favourable circumstance. To the infinite
gratification of everyone on board, it had been discovered at daylight that the schooner had
lost touch with us during the hours of darkness--either through unskillful handling, or from
some accidental disadvantage of the variable wind. I had been informed of it, directly I showed
myself on deck in the morning, by several men who had radiant grins, as if some great piece
of luck had befallen them, one and all. They shared their unflagging attention between the
land and the sea-horizon, pointing out to each other, with their tattooed arms, the features
of the coast, nodding knowingly towards the open. At midday most of them brought out their
dinners on deck, and could be seen forward, each with a tin plate in the left hand, gesticulating
amicably with clasp knives. A small white handkerchief hung from Mrs. Williams' fingers, and
now and then she touched her eyes lightly, one after the other. Her husband and Sebright, with
a grave mien, stamped busily around the binnacle aft, changing places, making way for each
other, stooping in turns to glance carefully along the compass card at the low bluff, like
two gunners laying a piece of heavy ordnance for an important shot. The steward, emerging out
of the companion, rang a handbell violently, and remained scared at the failure of that appeal.
After waiting for a moment, he produced a further feeble tinkle, and sank down out of sight,
with resignation.

A white sun, as if blazing with the pallor of fury, swung past the zenith in a profound and
universal stillness. There was not a wrinkle on the sea; it presented a lustrous and glittering
level, like the polished facet of a gem. In the cabin we sat down to the meal, not even pretending
a desire to eat, exchanging vague phrases, hanging our heads over the empty plates. But the
regular footsteps of the boatswain left in charge hesitated, stopped near the skylight. He
said in an imperfectly assured voice, "Seems as if there was a steadier draught coming now."
At this we rose from the table impetuously, as though he had shouted an alarm of fire, and
Mrs. Williams, with a little cry, ran round to Seraphina. Leaving the two women locked in a
silent embrace, the captain, Sebright and myself hurried out on deck.

Every man in the ship had done the same. Even the shiny black cook had come out of his galley,
and was already comfortably seated on the rail, baring his white teeth to the sunshine.

"Just about enough to blow out a farthing dip," said Sebright, in a disappointed mutter.

He thought, however, we had better not wait for more. There would be too much presently. Some
sailors hauled the boat alongside, the rest lined the rail as for a naval spectacle, and Williams
stared blankly. We were waiting for Seraphina, who appeared, attended by Mrs. Williams, looking
more kind, bloodless, and ascetic than ever. But my girl's cheeks glowed; her eyes sparkled
audaciously. She had done up her hair in some way that made it fit her head like a cap. It
became her exceedingly, and the decision of her movements, the white serenity of her brow,
dazzled me as if I had never seen her before. She seemed less childlike, older, ripe for this
adventure in a new development of strength and courage. She inclined her head slowly at the
gaping sailors, who had taken their caps off.

As soon as she appeared, Castro, who had been leaning against the bulwark, started up, and
with a muttered "Adios, Señores," went down the overside ladder and ensconced himself in the
bow of the boat. The leave-taking was hurried over. Williams gave no sign of feeling, except,
perhaps, for the greater intensity of his stare, which passed beyond our shoulders in the very
act of handshaking. Sebright helped Seraphina down into the boat, and ran up again nimbly.
Mrs. Williams, with her slim hand held in both mine, uttered a few incoherent words--about
men's promises and the happiness of women, as I thought; but, truth to say, my own suppressed
excitement was too considerable for close attention. I only knew that I had given her my confidence,
that complete and utter confidence which neither wisdom nor power alone, can command. And,
suddenly, it occurred to me that the heiress of a splendid name and fortune, down in the boat
there, had no better friend in the world than this woman, who had come to us out of the waste
of the sea, opening her simple heart to our need, like a pious and naive hermit in a wilderness
throwing open the door of his cell to strange wayfarers.

"Mrs. Williams," I stammered. "If we--if I--there's no saying what may happen to any of us.
If she ever comes to you--if she ever is in want of help...."

"Yes, yes. Always, always--like my own daughter."

And the good woman broke down, as if, indeed, I were taking her own daughter away.

"Nonsense, Mary!" Williams advanced, muttering tremendously. "They are not going round the
world. Dare say get ashore in time for supper."

He stared through her without expression, as if she had been thin air, but she seized his arm,
of course, and he gave me, then, an amazingly rapid wink which, I suppose, meant that I should
go....

"All right there?" asked Sebright from above, as soon as I had taken my seat in the stern sheets
by the side of Seraphina. He was standing on the poop deck ready with a sign for letting go
the end of our painter on deck; but before I could answer in the affirmative, Castro, ensconced
forward under his hat, drew his ready blade across the rope, as it were a throat.

At once a narrow strip of water opened between the boat and the ship, and our long-prepared
departure, hastened thus by half a second, seemed to strike everybody dumb with surprise, as
if we had taken wings to ourselves to fly away. Hastily I grasped the tiller to give the boat
a sheer, and heard a sort of loud gasp in the air above. A row of heads, posed on chins all
along the rail, stared after us with unanimous fixity. Mrs. Williams averted her face on her
husband's shoulder. Behind the couple, Sebright raised his cap gravely.

Our little sail filled to a breeze which was much too feeble to produce a perceptible effect
on the ship, and we left behind us her towering form, as one recedes from a tall white spire
on a plain. I laid the boat's head straight for the dwarf headland, marking the mouth of the
inlet on the interminable range of sand-dunes. We drove on with a smart ripple, but before
we felt sufficiently settled to exchange a few words the animated sound languished suddenly,
paused altogether, and, with a renewed murmur under our feet seemed to lose itself below the
glassy waters.

CHAPTER SEVEN

The calm had returned. The sea, changing from the warm glitter of a gem, and attuned to the
grays and blacks of space, resembled a monstrous cinder under a sky of ashes.

The sun had disappeared, smothered in these clouds that had formed themselves all at once and
everywhere, like some swift corruption of the upper air. For the best part of the afternoon
the ship and the boat remained lying at right angles, within half a mile of each other. What
light was left in the world, cut off from the source of life, seemed to sicken with a strange
decay. The long stretch of sands and the sails of the motionless vessel stood out lividly pale
in universal gloom. And yet the state of the atmosphere was such that we could see clear-cut
the very folds in the steep face of the dunes, and the figures of the people moving on the
poop of the Lion. There was always somebody there that had the aspect of watching us. Then,
with some excitement, we saw them on board haul up the mainsail and lower the gig.

The four oars beat the sombre water, rising and falling apparently in the same place. She was
an interminable time coming on, but as she neared us I was surprised at her dashing speed.
Sebright, who steered, laid her alongside smartly, and two of his men, clambering over without
a word, lowered our lug at once.

"We came to reef your sail for you. You couldn't manage that very well with a one-armed crew,"
said the young mate quietly in the enormous stillness. In his opinion, we couldn't expect now
any wind till the first squall came down. This flurry, as he called it, would send us in smoking,
and he was sure it would help the ship, as well, into Havana, in about twenty-four hours. He
didn't think that it would come very heavy at first; and, once landed, we need not care how
hard it blew.

He tendered me over the gunwale a pocket-flask covered with leather, and with a screwed silver
stopper in the shape of a cup. It was from the captain; full of prime rum. We were pretty sure
to get wet. He thrust, also, into my hands a gray woollen shawl. Mrs. Williams thought my young
lady might be glad of it at night. "The dear old woman has shut herself up inside their stateroom,
and is praying for you now," he concluded. "Look alive, boys."

His men did not answer him, but at some words he addressed to Castro, the latter, in the bows
and looking at the coast, growled with a surly impatience. He was perfectly sure of the entrance.
Had been in and out several times. Yes. At night, too. Sebright then turned to me. After all,
it was not so difficult. The inlet bore due south from us, and the wind would come true from
the north. Always did in these bursts. I had only to keep dead before it. "The clouds will
light you in at the last," he added meaningly, glancing upwards.

The two sailors, having finished reefing, hoisted, lowered, and hoisted again the yard to see
that the gear ran clear, and without one look at us, stepped back into the gig, and sat down
in their places. For a moment longer we lay together, touching sides. Sebright extended his
hand from boat to boat.

"You are in God's care now, Kemp," he said, looking up at me, and with an unexpected depth
of feeling in his tone. "Take no turn with the sheet on any account, and if you feel it coming
too heavy, let fly and chance it. Did I tell you we have sighted the schooner from aloft? No?
We can just make her out from the main-yard away astern under the land. That don't matter now....
Señorita, I kiss your hands." He liked to air his Spanish.... "Keep cool whatever happens.
Dead before it--mind. And count on sixteen days from to-morrow. Well. No more. Give way, boys."

He never looked back. We watched the boat being hoisted and secured. Shortly afterwards, as
we were observing the Lion shortening sail, the first of the rain descended between her and
us like a lowered veil. For a time she remained mistily visible, dark and gaunt with her bared
spars. The downpour redoubled; she disappeared; and our hearts were stirred to a faster beat.

The shower fell on us, around us, descending perpendicularly, with a steady force; and the
thunder rolled far off, as if coming from under the sea. Sometimes the muffled rumbling stopped,
and let us hear plainly the gentle hiss and the patter of the drops falling upon a vast expanse.
Suddenly, mingled with a loud detonation right over our heads, a burst of light outlined under
the bellying strip of our sail the pointed crown of Castro's hat, reposing on a heap of black
clothing huddled in the bows. The darkness swallowed it all. I swung Seraphina in front of
me, and made her sit low on the stern sheets beneath my feet. A lot of foam boiled up around
the boat, and we had the sensation of having been sent flying from a catapult.

Everything was black--perfectly black. At intervals, headlong gusts of rain swept over our
heads. I suppose I did keep sufficiently cool, but in every flash of lightning the wind, the
sea, the clouds, the rain, and the boat appeared to rush together thundering upon the coast.
The line of sands, bordered with a belt of foam, zigzagged dazzlingly upon an earth as black
as the clouds; only the headland, with every vision, remained sombre and unmoved. At last it
rose up right before the boat. Blue lightning streamed on a lane of tumbling waters at its
foot. Was this the entrance? With the vague notion of shortening sail, I let the sheet go from
my hand. There was a jerk, the crack of snapped wood, and the next flash showed me Castro emerging
from the ruins of mast and sail. He uprose, hurling the wreck from him overboard, then flickered
out of sight with his arm waving to the left, and I bore accordingly on the tiller. In a moment
I saw him again, erect forward, with the arm pointing to the right, and I obeyed his signal.
The clouds, straining with water and fire, were, indeed, lighting us on our way. A wave swelled
astern, chasing us in; rocking frightfully, we glanced past a stationary mass of foam--a sandbar--breakers....
It was terrible.... Suddenly, the motion of the boat changed, and the flickers of lightning
fell into a small, land-locked basin. The wind tore deep furrows in it, howling and scuffling
behind the dunes. Spray flew from the whole surface, the entire pool of a bay seemed to heave
bodily upwards, and I saw Castro again, with his face to me this time. His black cloak was
blowing straight out from his throat, his mouth yawned wide; he shouted directions, but in
an instant darkness sealed my eyes with its impenetrable impress. It was impossible to steer
now; the boat swung and reeled where she listed; a violent shock threw me sideways off my seat.
I felt her turning over, and, gathering Seraphina in my arms, I leaped out before she capsized.
I leaped clear out into shallow water.

I should never in my life have thought myself capable of such a feat, and yet I did it with
assurance, with no effort that I can remember. More than that--I managed, after the leap, to
keep my feet in the clinging, staggering clutch of water charged with sand, which swirled heavily
about my knees. It kept on hurling itself at my legs from behind, while I waded across the
narrow strip of sand with an inspired firmness of step defying all the power of the elements.
I felt the harder ground at last, but not before I had caught a momentary glimpse of a black
and bulky object tumbling over and over in the advancing and withdrawing liquid flurry of the
beach.

"Sit still here on the ground," I shouted to Seraphina, though flights of spray enveloped us
completely. "I am going back for Castro."

I faced about, putting my head down. He had been undoubtedly knocked over; and an old man,
with only one hand to help himself with, ran a very serious risk of being buffeted into insensibility,
and thus coming to his death in some four feet of water. The violent glare disclosed a body,
entangled in a cloak, rolling about helplessly between land and water, as it were. I dashed
on in the dark; a wave went over my head as I stooped, nearly waist-deep, groping. His rotary
motion, in that smother, made it extremely difficult to obtain any sort of hold. A little more,
and he would have knocked my legs from under me, but it was as if my grim determination were
by itself of a saving nature. He submitted to being hauled up the beach, passively, like a
sack. It was a heavy drag on the sand; I felt him bump behind me on the edge of the harder
ground, and a deluge fell uninterruptedly from above. He lay prone on his face, like a corpse,
between Seraphina and myself. We could not remain there, however.

But where to go? What to do? In what direction to look for a refuge? Was there any shelter
near by? How were we to reach it? How were we to move at all? No doubt he had expired; and
the earth, swept, deluged, glimmering fiercely and devastated with an awful uproar, appeared
no longer habitable. A thunder-clap seemed to crash new life into him; the world flared all
round, as if turning to a spark, and he was seen sitting up dazedly, like one called up from
the dead. Through it all he had preserved his hat.

It was fixed firmly down under his chin with a handkerchief, the side rims over his ears like
flaps, and, for the rest, presenting the appearance of a coal-scuttle bonnet behind, as well
as in front. We followed its peculiar aspect. Driving on under this indestructible headgear,
he flickered in and out of the world, while, with entwined arms and leaning back against the
wind with all our might, Seraphina and myself were borne along in his train. He knew of a shelter;
and this knowledge, perhaps, and also his evident familiarity with the topography of the country,
made him appear indomitably confident in the storm.

A small plain of coarse grass was bounded by the steep spur of a rise. To the left a little
river would burst, all at once, in all its windings into a bluish sulphurous glow; and between
the crashes of thunder there was heard the long-drawn, whistling swish of the rushes and cane-brakes
springing on the boggy ground. We skirted the rise. The rain beat against it; the lightning
showed its streaming and furrowed surface. We stumbled in the gusts. We felt under our feet,
mud, sand, rocky inequalities of the ground, and the moving stones in the bed of a torrent,
which broke headlong against our ankles. The entrance of a deep ravine opened.

Its lower sides palpitated with the ceaseless tossing of dwarf trees and bushes; and, motionless
above the sombre tumult of the slopes, the monumental stretch of bare rock rose on high, level
at the top, and emitting a ghastly yellow sheen in the flashes. The thunderclaps rolled ponderously
between the narrowing walls of that chasm, that was all aflame one moment, and all black the
next. A torrent springing at its head, and dashing with inaudible fury along the bottom, seemed
to gleam placidly amongst the rounded forms of inky bushes and pale boulders below our path.
Enormous eddies of wind from above made us stop short and totter breathless, clinging to each
other.

Castro sustained Seraphina on the other side; but frequently he had to leave us and move ahead,
looking for the way. There was, in fact, a half-obliterated path winding along the less steep
of the two sides; and we struggled after our guide with the unthinking fortitude of despair.
He was being disclosed to us so suddenly, extinguished so swiftly, that he appeared, always,
as if motionless and posturing in a variety of climbing attitudes. The rise of the bottom was
very steep, and the last hundred yards really stiff. We did them practically on our hands and
knees. The dislodged stones bounded away from under our feet, unheard, like puff-balls.

At the top I tried to make of my body a shelter for Seraphina. The wind howled and roared over
us. "Up! Vamos! The worst is yet before us," shrieked Castro in my ear.

What could he mean by this? The play of lightning opened to view only a vast and rolling upland.
Fire flowed in sheets undulating with the expanses of long grass amongst the trees, here and
there, in coal-black clumps, and flashed violently against a low edge of forests very dark
and far away.

"Let us go!" he cried. "Courage, Señorita!"

Courage! The populace said of her that she had never needed to put her foot to the ground.
If courage consists, for a being so tender, in toiling and enduring without faltering and plaint,--even
to the very limit of physical power,--then she was the most courageous woman in the world,
as she was the most charming, most faithful, most generous, and the most worthy of love. I
tried not to think of her racked limbs, for the very pain and pity of it. We retraced our steps,
but now following the edge of that precipice out of which we had emerged. I had peremptorily
insisted on carrying her. She put her arms round my neck and, to my uplifted heart, she weighed
no heavier than a feather. Castro, grasping my arm, guided my steps and gave me support against
the wind.

There was a distinct lull. Even the thunder had rolled away, dwindling to a deep mutter. Castro
fell on his knees in front of me.

"It is here," I heard him scream.

I set Seraphina down. A hooked dart of fire tore in two the thick canopy of clouds. I started
back from the edge.

"What! Here?" I yelled.

"Señor--Si! There is a cavern below...."

I had seen a ledge clinging to the face of the rock.

It was a cornice inclining downwards upon the wall of the precipice, as you see, sometimes,
a flight of stairs built against the outside wall of a house. And it resembled a stair roughly,
with long, sloping steps, wet with rain.

"Por Dios, Señor, do not let us stay to think here, or we shall perish in this tempest."

He howled, gesticulated, shrieked with all the strength of his lungs. He knew these tornadoes.
Brute beasts would be found lying dead in the fields in the morning. This was the beginning
only. The lightning showed his kneeling form, the eager upturned face, and a finger pointing
urgently into the abyss. The wind was nothing! Nothing to what would come after. As he shrieked
these words I was feeling the crust of the earth vibrate, absolutely vibrate, under the soles
of my feet, with the sound of thunder.

He unfastened his cloak, and was seen to struggle above his head with the hovering and flapping
cloth, as though he had captured a black and pugnacious bird. We mastered at last a corner
each, and then we started to twist the whole, as if to wring the water out. We produced, thus,
a sort of short rope, the thickness of a cable, and the descent began.

"Do not look behind you. Do not look," Castro screeched.

The first downward steps were terrible, but as soon as our heads had sunk below the level of
the plain it was better, for we had turned about to the rock, moving sideways, cautiously,
one step at a time, as if inspecting its fractured roughness for traces of a mysterious inscription.
Castro, with one end of the twisted cloak in his hand, went first; I held the other; and between
us, Seraphina, the rope at her back, imitated our movements, with her loosened hair flying
high in the wind, and her pale, rigid head as if deaf to the crashes. I saw the drawn stillness
of her face, her dilated eyes staring within three inches of the strata. The strain on our
prudence was tremendous. The knowledge of the precipice behind must have affected me. Explain
it as you will, several times during that descent I felt my brain slip away from my control,
and suggest a desire to fling myself over backwards. The twigs of the bushes, growing a little
below the outer edge of the path, swished at my calves. Castro stopped. The cornice ended as
a broken stairway hangs upon nothing. A tall, narrow arch stood back in the rock, with a sill
three feet high at least. Castro clambered over; his head and torso, when he turned about,
were lighted up blindingly between the inner walls at every flash. Seeing me lay hold of Seraphina,
he yelled:

"Señor, mind! It's death if you stagger back."

I lifted her up, and put her over like a child; and, no sooner in myself, felt my strength
leave all my limbs as water runs out of an overturned vessel. I could not have lifted up a
child's doll then. Directly, with a wild little laugh, she said to me:

"Juan--I shall never dare come out."

I hugged her silently to my breast.

Castro went ahead. It was a narrow passage; our elbows touched the sides all the way. He struck
at his flint regularly, sparks streamed down from his hand; we felt a freshness, a sense of
space, as though we had come into another world. His voice directed us to turn to the left,
then cried in the dark, "Stand still." A blue gleam darted after us, and retired without having
done anything against the tenebrous body of gloom, and the thunder rolled far in, unobstructed,
in leisurely, organ-like peals, as if through an amazingly vast emptiness of a temple. But
where was Castro? We heard snappings, rustlings, mutters; sparks streamed, now here, now there.
We dared not move. There might have been steep ridges--deep holes in that cavern. And suddenly
we discovered him on all-fours, puffing out his cheeks above a small flame kindled in a heap
of dry sticks and leaves.

It was an abode of darkness, enormous, without sonority. Feeble currents of air, passing on
our faces, gave us a feeling of being in the open air on a night more black than any known
night had been before. One's voice lost itself in there without resonance, as if on a plain;
the smoke of our blaze drove aslant, scintillating with red sparks, and went trailing afar,
as if under the clouds of a starless sky. Ultimately, it must have escaped through some imperceptible
crevices in the roof of rock. In one place, only, the light of the fire illuminated a small
part of the rugged wall, where the shadows of our bodies would surge up, repeating our movements,
and suddenly be gone from our sight. Everywhere else, pressing upon the reflection of the flames,
the blind darkness of the vault might have extended away for miles and miles.

Castro thought it probable. He made me observe the incline of the floor. It sloped down deep
and far. For miles, no doubt. Nobody could tell; no one had seen the end of it. This cavern
had been known of old. This brushwood, these dead leaves, that would make a couch for her Excellency,
had been stored for years--perhaps by men who had died long ago. Look at the dry rot. These
large piles of branches were found stacked up when he first beheld this place. Caramba! What
toil! What fatigue! Let us thank the saints, however.

Nevertheless, he shook his head at the strangeness of it. His cloak, spread out wide, was drying
in the light, while he busied himself with his hat, turning it before the blaze in both hands,
tenderly; and his tight little figure, lit up in front from head to foot, steamed from every
limb. His round, plump shoulders and gray-shock head smoked quietly at the top. Suddenly, the
fine mesh of wrinkles on his face ran together, shrinking like a torn cobweb; a spasmodic sound,
quite new to me, was heard. He had laughed.

The warmth of the fire had penetrated our chilled bodies with a feeling of comfort and repose.
Williams' flask was empty; and this was a new Castro, mellowed, discoursive, almost genial.
It was obvious to me that, had it not been for him, we two, lost and wandering in the storm,
should have died from exposure and exhaustion--from some accident, perhaps. On the other hand
I had indubitably saved his life, and he had already thanked me in high-flown language; very
grave, but exaggerating the horrors of his danger, as a woman might have done for the better
expression of gratitude. He had been greatly shocked. Spaniards, as a race, have never, for
all their conquests, been on intimate terms with the sea. As individuals I have often observed
in them, especially in the lower classes, a sort of dread, a dislike of salt water, mingled
with contempt and fear.

Castro, lifting up his right arm, protested that I had given a proof of very noble devotion
in rushing back for an old man into that black water. Ough! He shuddered. He had given himself
up--por Dios! He hinted that, at his age, he could not have cared much for life; but then,
drowning in the sea was a death abhorrent to an old Christian. You died brutally--without absolution,
and unable, even, to think of your sins. He had had his mouth filled with horrid, bitter sand,
too. Tfui! He gave me a thousand thanks. But these English were wonderful in their way....
Ah! Caramba! They were....

A large protuberance of the rocky floor had been roughly chipped into the semblance of a seat,
God only knows by what hands and in what forgotten age. Seraphina's inclined pose, her torn
dress, the wet tresses lying over her shoulders, her homeless aspect, made me think of a beautiful
and miserable gipsy girl drying her hair before a fire. A little foot advanced, gleamed white
on the instep in front of the ruddy glare; her clasped fingers nursed one raised knee; and,
shivering no longer, her head drooping in still profile, she listened to us, frowning thoughtfully
upon the flames.

In the guise of a beggar-maid, and fair, like a fugitive princess of romance, she sat concealed
in the very heart of her dominions. This cavern belonged to her, as Castro remarked, and the
bay of the sea, and the earth above our heads, the rolling upland, herds of cattle, fields
of sugar-cane--even as far as the forest away there; the forest itself, too. And there were
on that estate, alone, over two hundred Africans, he was able to tell us. He boasted of the
wealth of the Riegos. Her Excellency, probably, did not know such details. Two hundred--certainly.
The estate of Don Vincente Salazar was on the other side of the river. Don Vincente was at
present suffering the indignity of a prison for a small matter of a quarrel with another caballero--who
had died lately--and all, he understood, through the intrigues of the prior of a certain convent;
the uncle, they said, of the dead caballero. Bah! There was something to get. These fat friars
were like the lean wolves of Russia--hungry for everything they could see. Never enough, Cuerpo
de Bios! Never enough! Like their good friend who helped them in their iniquities, the Juez
O'Brien, who had been getting rich for years on the sublime generosity of her Excellency's
blessed father. In the greatness of his nobility, Don Balthasar of holy memory had every right
to be obstinate.... Basta! He would speak no more; only there is a saying in Castile that fools
and obstinate people make lawyers rich....

"Vuestra Señoria," he cried, checking himself, slapping his breast penitently, "deign to forgive
me. I have been greatly exalted by the familiarity of the two last men of your house--allowed
to speak freely because of my fidelity.... Alas! Alas!"

Seraphina, on the other side of the fire, made a vague gesture, and took her chin in her hand
without looking at him.

"Patience," he mumbled to himself very audibly. "He is rich, this picaro, O'Brien. But there
is, also, a proverb--that no riches shall avail in the day of vengeance."

Noticing that we had begun to whisper together, he threw himself before the fire, and was silent.

"Promise me one thing, Juan," murmured Seraphina.

I was kneeling by the side of her seat.

"By all that's holy," I cried, "I shall force him to come out and fight fair--and kill him
as an English gentleman may."

"Not that! Not that!" she interrupted me. She did not mean me to do that. It was what she feared.
It would be delivering myself into that man's hands. Did I think what that meant? It would
be delivering her, too, into that man's power. She would not survive it. And if I desired her
to live on, I must keep out of O'Brien's clutches.

"In my thoughts I have bound my life to yours, Juan, so fast that the stroke which cuts yours,
cuts mine, too. No death can separate us."

"No," I said.

And she took my head in her hands, and looked into my eyes.

"No more mourning," she whispered rapidly. "No more. I am too young to have a lover's grave
in my life--and too proud to submit...."

"Never," I protested ardently. "That couldn't be."

"Therefore look to it, Juan, that you do not sacrifice your life which is mine, either to your
love--or--or--to revenge." She bowed her head; the falling hair concealed her face. "For it
would be in vain."

"The cloak is perfectly dry now, Señorita," said Castro, reclining on his elbow on the edge
of the darkness.

We two stepped out towards the entrance, leaving her on her knees, in silent prayer, with her
hands clasped on her forehead, and leaning against the rugged wall of rock. Outside, the earth,
enveloped in fire and uproar, seemed to have been given over to the fury of a devil.

Yes. She was right. O'Brien was a formidable and deadly enemy. I wished ourselves on board
the Lion chaperoned by Mrs. Williams, and in the middle of the Atlantic. Nothing could make
us really safe from his hatred but the vastness of the ocean. Meantime we had a shelter, for
that night, at least, in this cavern that seemed big enough to contain, in its black gloom
of a burial vault, all the dust and passions and hates of a nation....

Afterwards Castro and I sat murmuring by the diminished fire. He had much to say about the
history of this cave. There was a tradition that the ancient buccaneers had held their revels
in it. The stone on which the senorita had been sitting was supposed to have been the throne
of their chief. A ferocious band they were, without the fear of God or devil--mostly English.
The Rio Medio picaroons had used this cavern, occasionally, up to a year or so ago. But there
were always ugly affairs with the people on the estate--the vaqueros. In his younger days Don
Balthasar, having whole leagues of grass land here, had introduced a herd of cattle; then,
as the Africans are useless for that work, he had ordered some peons from Mexico to be brought
over with their families--ignorant men, who hardly knew how to make the sign of the cross.
The quarrels had been about the cattle, which the Lugareños killed for meat. The peons rode
over them, and there were many wounds on both sides. Then, the last time a Rio Medio schooner
was lying here (after looting a ship outside), there was some gambling going on (they played
round this very stone), and Manuel--(Si, Señor, this same Manuel the singer--Bestia!)--in a
dispute over the stakes, killed a peon, striking him unexpectedly with a knife in the throat.
No vengeance was taken for this, because the Lugareños sailed away at once; but the widow made
a great noise, and some rumours came to the ears of Don Balthasar himself--for he, Castro,
had been honoured with a mission to visit the estate. That was even the first occasion of Manuel's
hate for him--Castro. And, as usual, the Intendente after all settled the matter as he liked,
and nothing was done to Manuel. Don Balthasar was old, and, besides, too great a noble to be
troubled with the doings of such vermin.... And Castro began to yawn.

At daybreak--he explained--he would start for the hacienda early, and return with mules for
Seraphina and myself. The buildings of the estate were nearly three leagues away. All this
tract of the country on the side of the sea was very deserted, the sugar-cane fields worked
by the slaves lying inland, beyond the habitations. Here, near the coast, there were only the
herds of cattle ranging the savannas and the peons looking after them, but even they sometimes
did not come in sight of the sea for weeks together. He had no fear of being seen by anybody
on his journey; we, also, could start without fear in daylight, as soon as he brought the mules.
For the rest, he would make proper arrangements for secrecy with the husband of Seraphina's
nurse--Enrico, he called him: a silent Galician; a graybeard worthy of confidence.

One of his first cares had been to grub out of his soaked clothes a handful of tobacco, and
now he turned over the little drying heap critically. He hunted up a fragment of maize leaf
somewhere upon his bosom. His face brightened. "Bueno," he muttered, very pleased.

"Señor--good-night," he said, more humanized than I had supposed possible; or was it only that
I was getting to know him better? "And thanks. There's that in life which even an old tired
man.... Here I, Castro... old and sad, Señor. Yes, Señor--nothing of mine in all the world--and
yet.... But what a death! Ouch! the brute water... Caramba! Altogether improper for a man who
has escaped from a great many battles and the winter of Russia.... The snow, Señor...."

He drowsed, garrulous, with the blackened end of his cigarette hanging from his lower lip,
swayed sideways--and let himself go over gently, pillowing his head on the stump of his arm.
The thin, viperish blade, stuck upwards from under his temple, gleamed red before the sinking fire.

I raised a handful of flaring twigs to look at Sera-phina. A terrible night raged over the
land; the inner arch of the opening growled, winking bluishly time after time, and, like an
enchanted princess enveloped in a beggar's cloak, she was lying profoundly asleep in the heart
of her dominions.

CHAPTER EIGHT

The first thing I noted, on opening my eyes, was that Castro had gone already; I was annoyed.
He might have called me. However, we had arranged everything the evening before. The broad
day, penetrating through the passage, diffused a semicircle of twilight over the flooring.
It extended as far as the emplacement of the fire, black and cold now with a gray heap of ashes
in the middle. Farther away in the darkness, beyond the reach of light, Seraphina on her bed
of leaves did not stir. But what was that hat doing there? Castro's hat. It asserted its existence
more than it ever did on the head of its master; black and rusty, like a battered cone of iron,
reposing on a wide flange near the ashes. Then he was not gone. He would not start to walk
three leagues, bare-headed. He would appear presently; and I waited, vexed at the loss of time.
But he did not appear. "Castro," I cried in an undertone. The leaves rustled; Seraphina sat up.

We were pleased to be with each other in an inexpugnable retreat, to hear our voices untinged
by anxiety; and, going to the outer end of the short passage, we breathed with joy the pure
air. The tops of the bushes below glittered with drops of rain, the sky was clear, and the
sun, to us invisible, struck full upon the face of the rock on the other side of the ravine.
A great bird soared, all was light and silence, and we forgot Castro for a time. I threw my
legs over the sill, and sitting on the stone surveyed the cornice. The bright day robbed the
ravine of half its horrors. The path was rather broad, though there was a frightful sheer drop
of ninety feet at least. Two men could have walked abreast on that ledge, and with a hand-rail
one would have thought nothing of it. The most dangerous part yet was at the entrance, where
it ended in a rounded projection not quite so wide as the rest. I bantered Seraphina as to
going out. She said she was ready. She would shut her eyes, and take hold of my hand. Englishmen,
she had heard, were good at climbing. Their heads were steady. Then we became silent. There
were no signs of Castro. Where could he have gone? What could he be doing? It was unimaginable.

I grew nervous with anxiety at last, and begged Seraphina to go in. She obeyed without a word,
and I remained just within the entrance, watching. I had no means to tell the time, but it
seemed to me that an hour or two passed. Hadn't we better, I thought, start at once on foot
for the hacienda? I did not know the way, but by descending the ravine again to the sea, and
walking along the bank of the little river, I was sure to reach it. The objection to this was
that we should miss Castro. Hang Castro! And yet there was something mysterious and threatening
in his absence. Could he--could he have stepped out for some reason in the dark, perhaps, and
tumbled off the cornice? I had seen no traces of a slip--there would be none on the rock; the
twigs of the growth below the edge would spring back, of course. But why should he fall? The
footing was good--however, a sudden attack of vertigo.... I tried to look at it from every
side. He was not a somnambulist, as far as I knew. And there was nothing to eat--I felt hungry
already--or drink. The want of water would drive us out very soon to the spring bubbling out
at the head of the ravine, a mile in the open. Then why not go at once, drink, and return to
our lair as quickly as possible?

But I did not like to think of her going up and down the cornice. I remembered that we had
a flask, and went in hastily to look for it. First, I looked near the hat; then, Seraphina
and I, bent double with our eyes on the ground examined every square inch of twilight; we even
wandered a long way into the darkness, feeling about with our hands. It was useless! I called
out to her, and then we desisted, and coming together, wondered what might have become of the
thing. He had taken it--that was clear.

But if, as one might suppose, he had taken it away to get some water for us, he ought to have
been back long before. I was beginning to feel rather alarmed, and I tried to consider what
we had better do. It was necessary to learn, first, what had become of him. Staring out of
the opening, in my perplexity, I saw, on the other side of the ravine, the lower part of a
man from his waist to his feet.

By crouching down at once, I brought his head into view. This was not Castro. He wore a black
sombrero, and on his shoulder carried a gun. He turned his back on the ravine, and began to
walk straight away, sinking from my sight till only his hat and shoulders remained visible.
He lifted his arm then--straight up--evidently as a signal, and waited. Presently another head
and shoulders joined him, and they glided across my line of sight together. But I had recognized
their bandit-like aspect with infinite consternation. Lu-garenos!

I caught Seraphina's hand. My first thought was that we should have to steal out of the cavern
with the first coming of darkness. Castro must be lying low in hiding somewhere above. The
thing was plain. We must try to make our way to the hacienda under the cover of the night,
unseen by those two men. Evidently they were emissaries sent from Rio Medio to watch this part
of the coast against our possible landing. I was to be hunted down, it seems: and I reproached
myself bitterly with the hardships I was bringing upon her continually. Thinking of the fatigues
she had undergone--(I did not think of dangers--that was another thing--the romance of dying
together like all the lovers in the tradition of the world)--I shook with rage and exasperation.
The firm pressure of her hands calmed me. She was content. But what if they took it into their
heads to come into the cavern?

The emptiness of the blue sky above the sheer yellow rock opposite was frightful. It was a
mere strip, stretched like a luminous bandage over our eyes. They were, perhaps, even now on
their way round the head of the ravine. I had no weapon except the butt of my pistol. The charges
had been spoilt by the salt water, of course, and I had been tempted to fling it out of my
belt, but for the thought of obtaining some powder somewhere. And those men I had seen were
armed. At once we abandoned the neighbourhood of the entrance, plunging straight away into
the profound obscurity of the cave. The rocky ground under our feet had a gentle slope, then
dipped so sharply as to surprise us; and the entrance, diminishing at our backs, shone at last
no larger than the entrance of a mouse-hole. We made a few steps more, gropingly. The bead
of light disappeared altogether when we sat down, and we remained there hand-in-hand and silent,
like two frightened children placed at the centre of the earth. There was not a sound, not
a gleam. Sera-phina bore the crushing strain of this perfect and black stillness in an almost
heroic immobility; but, as to me, it seemed to lie upon my limbs, to embarrass my breathing
like a numbness full of dread; and to shake that feeling off I jumped up repeatedly to look
at that luminous bead, that point of light no bigger than a pearl in the infinity of darkness.
And once, just as I was looking, it shut and opened at me slowly, like the deliberate drooping
and rising of the lid upon a white eyeball.

Somebody had come in.

We watched side by side. Only one. Would he go out? The point of light, like a white star setting
in a coal-black firmament, remained uneclipsed. Whoever had entered was in no haste to leave.
Moreover, we had no means of telling what another obscuring of the light might mean; a departure
or another arrival. There were two men about, as we knew; and it was even possible that they
had entered together in one wink of the light, treading close upon each other's heels. We both
felt the sudden great desire to know for certain. But, especially, we needed to find out if
perchance this was not Castro who had returned. We could not afford to lose his assistance.
And should he conclude, we were out--should he risk himself outside again, in order to find
us and be discovered himself, and thus lost to us when we felt him so necessary? And the doubt
came. If this man was Castro, why didn't he penetrate further, and shout our names? He ought
to have been intelligent enough to guess.... And it was this doubt that, making suspense intolerable,
put us in motion.

We circled widely in that subterranean darkness, which, unlike the darkest night on the surface
of the earth, had no suggestion of shape, no horizon, and seemed to have no more limit than
the darkness of infinite space. On this floor of solid rock we moved with noiseless steps,
like a pair of timid phantoms. The spot of light grew in size, developed a shape--stretching
from a pearly bead to a silvery thread; and, approaching from the side, we scanned from afar
the circumscribed region of twilight about the opening. There was a man in it. We contemplated
for a time his rounded back, his drooping head. It was gray. The man was Castro. He sat rocking
himself sorrowfully over the ashes. He was mourning for us. We were touched by this silent
faithfulness of grief.

He started when I put my hand on his shoulder, looked up, then, instead of giving any signs
of joy, dropped his head again.

"You managed to avoid them, Castro?" I said.

"Señor, behold. Here I am. I, Castro."

His tone was gloomy, and after sitting still for a while under our gaze, he slapped his forehead
violently. He was in his tantrums, I judged, and, as usual, angry with me--the cause of every
misfortune. He was upset and annoyed beyond reason, as I thought, by this new difficulty. It
meant delay--a certain measure of that sort of danger of which we had thought ourselves free
for a time--night travelling for Seraphina. But I had an idea to save her this. We did not
all want to go. Castro could start, alone, for the hacienda after dark, and bring, besides
the mules, half a dozen peons with him for an escort. There was nothing really to get so upset
about. The danger would have been if he had let himself be caught. But he had not. As to his
temper, I knew my man; he had been amiable too long. But by this time we were so sure of his
truculent devotion that Seraphina spoke gently to him, saying how anxious we had been--how
glad we were to see him safe with us.... He would not be conciliated easily, it seemed, and
let out only a blood-curdling dismal groan. Without looking at her, he tried hastily to make
a cigarette. He was very clever at it generally, rolling it with one hand on his knee somehow;
but this time all his limbs seemed to shake, he lost several pinches of tobacco, dropped the
piece of maize leaf. Seraphina, stooping over his shoulder, took it up, twisted the thing swiftly.
"Take, amigo," she said.

He was looking up at her, as if struck dumb, roiling his eye wildly. He jumped up.

"You--Señorita! For a miserable old man! You break my heart."

And with long strides he disappeared in the darkness, leaving us wondering.

We sat side by side on the couch of leaves. With Castro there I felt we were quite equal to
dealing with the two Lugareños if they had the unlucky idea of intruding upon us. Indeed, a
vigilant man, posted on one side of the end of the passage, could have disputed the entrance
against ten, twenty, almost any number, as long as he kept his strength and had something heavy
enough to knock them over. Faint sounds reached me, as if at a great distance Castro had been
shouting to himself. I called to him. He did not answer, but unexpectedly his short person
showed itself in the brightest part of the light.

"Señor!" he called out with a strange intonation. I got up and went to him. He seemed to be
listening intently with his ear turned to the opening. Then suddenly:

"Look at me, Señor. Am I Castro--the same Castro? old and friendless?"

He stood biting his forefinger and looking up at me from under his knitted eyebrows. I didn't
know what to say. What was this nonsense?

He ejaculated a sort of incomprehensible babble, and, passing by me, rushed towards Seraphina;
she sat up, startled, on her couch of leaves. Falling before her on his plump knees, he seized
her hand, pressed it against his ragged moustache.

"Excellency, forgive me! No--no forgiveness! Ha! old man! Ha--thou old man...."

He bowed before her shadowy figure, that sustained the pale oval of the face, till his forehead
struck the rock. Plunging his hand into the ashes, he poured a fistful with inarticulate low
cries over his gray hairs; and the agitation of that obese little body on its knees had a lamentable
and grotesque inconsequence, as inexplicable in itself as the sorrow of a madman. Full of wonder
before his abject collapse, she murmured:

"What have you done?"

He tried to fling himself upon her feet, but my hand was in his collar, and after an unmerciful
shaking, I sat him down by main force. He gulped, blinked the whites of his eyes, then, in
a whisper full of rage:

"Horror, shame, misery, and malediction; I have betrayed you."

At once she said soothingly, "Tomasr I do not believe this"; while I thought to myself: How?
Why? For what reason? In what manner betrayed? How was it possible? And, if so, why did he
come back to us? But, as things stood, he would never dare approach a Lugareño. If he had,
they would never have let him go again.

"You told them we were here?" I asked, so perfectly incredulous that I was not at all surprised
to hear him protest, by all the saints, that he never did--never would do. Never. Never....
But why should he? Was he the prey of some strange hallucination? Rocking himself, he struck
his breast with his clenched hand, then suddenly caught at his hair and remained perfectly
motionless. Minutes passed; this despairing stillness inspired in me a feeling of awe at last--the
awe of something inconceivable. My head buzzed so with the effort to think that I had the illusions
of faint murmurs in the cave, the very shadows of murmurs. And all at once a real voice--his
voice--burst out fearfully rapid and voluble.

He had really gone out to get a provision of water. Waking up early, he saw us sleeping, and
felt a great pity for the senorita. As to the caballero--his saviour from drowning, alas!--the
senorita would need every ounce of his strength. He would let us sleep till his return from
the spring; and, there being a blessed freshness in the air, he caught up the flask and started
bare-headed. The sun had just risen. Would to God he had never seen it! After plunging his
face in the running water, he remained on his knees and busied himself in rinsing and filling
the flask. The torrent, gushing with force, made a loud noise, and after he had done screwing
the top on, he was about to rise, when, glancing about carelessly, he saw two men leaning on
their escopetas and looking at him in perfect silence. They were standing right over him; he
knew them well; one they called El Rubio; the other, the little one, was José--squinting José.
They said nothing; nothing at all. With a sudden and mighty effort he preserved his self-command,
affected unconcern and, instead of getting up, only shifted his pose to a sitting position,
took off his shoes and stockings, and proceeded to bathe his feet. But it was as if a blazing
fire had been kindled in his breast, and a tornado had been blowing in his head.

He could not tell whence these two had come, with what object, or how much they knew. They
might have been only messengers from Rio Medio to Havana. They generally went in couples. If
Manuel had escaped alive out of the sea, everything was known in Rio Medio. From where he sat
he beheld the empty, open sea over the dunes, but the edge of the upland, cleft by many ravines
(of which the one we had ascended was the deepest), concealed from him the little basin and
the inlet. He was certain these men had not come up that way. They had approached him over
the plain. But there was more than one way by which the upland could be reached from below.
The thoughts rushed round and round his head. He remembered that our boat must be floating
or lying stranded in the little bay, and resolved, in case of necessity, to say that we two
were dead, that we had been drowned.

It was El Rubio who put the very question to him, in an insolent tone, and sitting on the ground
out of his reach, with his gun across his knees. His long knife ready in his hand, squinting
José remained standing over Castro. Those two men nodded to each other significantly at the
intelligence. He perceived that they were more than half disposed to credit his story. They
had nearly been drowned themselves pursuing that accursed heretic of an Englishman. When, from
their remarks, he learned that the schooner was in the bay, he began putting on his shoes,
though the hope of making a sudden dash for his life down the ravine abandoned him.

The schooner had been run in at night during the gale, and in such distress that they let her
take the ground. She was not injured, however, and some of them were preparing to haul her
off. Our boat, as I conceived, after bumping along the beach, had drifted within the influence
of the current created by the little river, or else by the water forced into the basin by the
tempest, seeking to escape, and had been carried out towards the inlet. She was seen at daylight,
knocking about amongst the breakers, bottom up, and in such shallow water that three or four
men wading out knee-deep managed to turn her over. They had found Mrs. Williams' woollen shawl
and my cap floating underneath. At the same time the broken mast and sail were made out, tossing
upon the waves, not very far off to seaward. That the boat had been in the bay at all did not
seem to have occurred to them. It had been concluded that she had capsized outside the entrance.
It was very possible that we had been drowned under her. Castro hastened to confirm the idea
by relating how he had been clinging to the bottom of the boat for a long time. Thus he had
saved himself, he declared.

"Manuel will be glad," observed El Rubio then, with an evil laugh. And for a long time nobody
said a word.

El Rubio, cross-legged, was observing him with the eyes of a basilisk, but Castro swore a great
oath that, as to himself, he showed no signs of fear. He looked at the water gushing from the
rock, bubbling up, sparkling, running away in a succession of tiny leaps and falls. Why should
he fear? Was he not old, and tired, and without any hope of peace on earth? What was death?
Nothing. It was absolutely nothing. It comes to all. It was rest after much vain trouble--and
he trusted that, through his devotion to the Mother of God, his sins would be forgiven after
a short time in purgatory. But, as he had made up his mind not to fall into Manuel's hands,
he resolved that presently he would stab himself to the heart, where he sat--over this running
water. For it would not be like a suicide. He was doomed, and surely God did not want his body
to be tormented by such a devil as Manuel before death.

He would lean far over before he struck his faithful blade into his breast, so as to fall with
his face in the water. It looked deliciously cool, and the sun was heavy on his bare head.
Suddenly, El Rubio sprang to his feet, saying:

"Now, José."

It is clear that these ruffians stood in awe of his blade. In their cowardly hearts they did
not think it quite safe (being only two to one) to try and disarm that old man. They backed
away a step or two, and, levelling their pieces, suddenly ordered him to get up and walk before.
He threw at them an obscene word. He thought to himself, "Bueno! They will blow my head off
my shoulders." No emotion stirred in him, as if his blood had already ceased to run in his
veins. They remained, all three, in a state of suspended animation, but at last El Rubio hissed
through his teeth with vexation, and grunted:

"Attention, José. Take aim. We will break his legs and take away the sting of this old scorpion."

Castro's blood felt chilly in his limbs, but instead of planting his knife in his breast, he
spoke up to ask them where, supposing he consented, they wished to conduct him.

"To Manuel--our captain. He would like to embrace you before you die," said El Rubio, advancing
a stride nearer, his gun to his shoulder. "Get up! March!"

And Castro found himself on his feet, looking straight into the black holes of the barrels.

"Walk!" they exclaimed together, stepping upon him.

The time had come to die.

"Ha! Canalla!" he said.

They made a menacing clamour, "Walk viejo, traitor; walk."

"Señorita--I walked." The heartrending effort of the voice, the trembling of this gray head,
the sobs under the words, oppressed our breast with dismay and dread. Ardently he would have
us believe that at this juncture he was thinking of us only--of us wondering, alone, ignorant
of danger, and hidden blindly under the earth. His purpose was to provoke the two Luga-reños
to shoot, so that we should be warned by the reports. Besides, an opportunity for escape might
yet present itself in some most unlikely way, perhaps at the very last moment. Had he not his
own life in his own hands? He cared not for it. It was in his power to end it at any time.
And there would be dense thickets on the way; long grass where one could plunge suddenly--who
knows! And overgrown ravines where one could hide--creep under the bushes--escape--and return
with help.... But when he faced the plains its greatness crushed his poor strength. The uncovered
vastness imprisoned him as effectually as a wall. He knew himself for what he was: an old man,
short of breath, heavy of foot; nevertheless he walked on hastily, his eyes on the ground.
The footsteps of his captors sounded behind him, and he tried to edge towards the ravine. When
nearly above the opening of the cavern he would, he thought, swerve inland, and dash off as
fast as he was able. Then they would have to fire at him; we would be sure to hear the shots,
the warning would be clear... and suddenly, looking up, he saw that a small band of Lugareños,
having just ascended the brow of the upland, were coming to meet him. Now was the time to get
shot; he turned sharply, and began to run over that great plain towards a distant clump of trees.

Nobody fired at him. He heard only the mingled jeers and shouts of the two men behind, "Quicker,
Castro; quicker!" They followed him, holding their sides. Those ahead had already spread themselves
out over the plain, yelling to each other, and were converging upon him. That was the time
to stop, and with one blow fall dead at their feet. He doubled round in front of Manuel, who
stood waving his arms and screeching orders, and ran back towards the ravine. The plain rang
with furious shouts. They rushed at him from every side. He would throw himself over. It was
a race for the precipice. He won it.

I suppose he found it not so easy to die, to part with the warmth of sunshine, the taste of
food; to break that material servitude to life, contemptible as a vice, that binds us about
like a chain on the limbs of hopeless slaves. He showered blows upon his chest, sitting before
us, he battered with his fist at the side of his head till I caught his arm. We could always
sell our lives dearly, I said. He would have to defend the entrance with me. We two could hold
it till it was blocked with their corpses.

He jumped up with a derisive shriek; a cloud of ashes flew from under his stumble, and he vanished
in the darkness with mad gesticulations.

"Their corpses--their corpses--their... Ha! ha! ha!"

The snarling sound died away; and I understood, then, what meant this illusion of ghostly murmurs
that once or twice had seemed to tremble in the narrow region of gray light around the arch.
The sunshine of the earth, and the voices of men, expired on the threshold of the eternal obscurity
and stillness in which we were imprisoned, as if in a grave with inexorable death standing
between us and the free spaces of the world.

CHAPTER NINE

For it meant that. Imprisoned! Castro's derisive shriek meant that. And I had known it before.
He emerged back out of the black depths, with livid, swollen features, and foam about his mouth,
to splutter:

"Their corpses, you say.... Ha! Our corpses," and retreated again, where I could only hear
incoherent mutters.

Seraphina clutched my arm. "Juan--together--no separation."

I had known it, even as I spoke of selling our lives dearly. They could only be surrendered.
Surrendered miserably to these wretches, or to the everlasting darkness in which Castro muttered
his despair. I needed not to hear this ominous and sinister sound--nor yet Seraphina's cry.
She understood, too. They would never come down unless to look upon us when we were dead. I
need not have gone to the entrance of the cave to understand all the horror of our fate. The
Lugareños had already lighted a fire. Very near the brink, too.

It was burning some thirty feet above my head; and the sheer wall on the other side caught
up and sent across into my face the crackling of dry branches, the loud excited talking, the
arguments, the oaths, the laughter; now and then a very shriek of joy. Manuel was giving orders.
Some advanced the opinion that the cursed Inglez, the spy who came from Jamaica to see whom
he could get for a hanging without a priest, was down there, too. So that was it! O'Brien knew
how to stir their hate. I should get a short shrift. "He was a fiend, the Inglez: look how
many of us he has killed!" they cried; and Manuel would have loved to cut my flesh, in small
pieces, off my bones--only, alas! I was now beyond his vengeance, he feared. However, somebody
was left.

He must have thrown himself flat, with his head over the brink, for his yell of "Castro!" exploded,
and rolled heavily between the rocks.

"Castro! Castro! Castro!" he shouted twenty times, till he set the whole ravine in an uproar.
He waited, and when the clamour had quieted down amongst the bushes below, called out softly,
"Do you hear me, Castro, my victim? Thou art my victim, Castro."

Castro had crept into the passage after me. He pushed his head beyond my shoulder.

"I defy thee, Manuel," he screamed.

A hubbub arose. "He's there! He is there!"

"Bravo, Castro," Manuel shouted from above. "I love thee because thou art my victim. I shall
sing a song for thee. Come up. Hey! Castro! Castro! Come up.... No? Then the dead to their
grave, and the living to their feast."

Sometimes a little earth, detached from the layer of soil covering the rock, would fall streaming
from above. The men told off to guard the cornice walked to and fro near the edge, and the
confused murmur of voices hung subdued in the air of the cleft, like a modulated tremor. Castro,
moaning gently, stumbled back into the cave.

Seraphina had remained sitting on the stone seat. The twilight rested on her knees, on her
face, on the heap of cold ashes at her feet. But Castro, who had stood stock-still, with a
hand to his forehead, turned to me excitedly:

"The peons, for Dios!" Had I ever thought of the peons belonging to the estancia?

Well, that was a hope. I did not know exactly how matters stood between them and the Lugareños.
There was no love lost. A fight was likely; but, even if no actual collision took place, they
would be sure to visit the camp above in no very friendly spirit; a chance might offer to make
our position known to these men, who had no reason to hate either me or Castro--and would not
be afraid of thwarting the miserable band of ghouls sitting above our grave. How our presence
could be made known I was not sure. Perhaps simply by shouting with all our might from the
mouth of the cave. We could offer rewards--say who we were, summon them for the service of
their own Señorita. But, probably, they had never heard of her. No matter. The news would soon
reach the hacienda, and Enrico had two hundred slaves at his back. One of us must always remain
at the mouth of the cave listening to what went on above. There would be the trampling of horses'
hoofs--quarrelling, no doubt--anyway, much talk--new voices--something to inform us. Only,
how soon would they come? They were not likely to be riding where there were no cattle. Had
Castro seen any signs of a herd on the uplands near by?

His face fell. He had not. There were many savannas within the belt of forests, and the herds
might be miles away, stampeded inland by the storm. Sitting down suddenly, as if overcome,
he averted his eyes and began to scratch the rock between his legs with the point of his blade.

We were all silent. How long could we wait? How long could people live?... I looked at Seraphina.
How long could she live?... The thought seared my heart like a hot iron. I wrung my hands stealthily.

"Ha! my blade!" muttered Castro. "My sting.... Old scorpion! They did not take my sting away....
Only--bah!"

He, a man, had not risen to the fortitude of a venomous creature. He was defeated. He groaned
profoundly. Life was too much. It clung to one. A scorpion--an insect--within a ring of flames,
would lift its sting and stab venom into its own head. And he--Castro--a man--a man, por Dios--had
less firmness than a creeping thing. Why--why, did he not stab this dishonoured old heart?

"Señorita," he cried agonizingly, "I swear I did shout to them to fire--so--in to my breast--and
then..."

Seraphina leaned over him pityingly.

"Enough, Castro. One lives because of hope. And grieve not. Thy death would have done no good."

Her face had a splendid pallor, the radiant whiteness and majesty of marble; it had never before
appeared to me more beautiful: and her hair unrolling its dark undulations, as if tinged deep
with the funereal gloom of the background, covered her magnificently right down to her elbows.
Her eyes were incredibly profound. Her person had taken on an indefinable beauty, a new beauty,
that, like the comeliness that comes from joy, love, or success, seemed to rise from the depths
of her being, as if an unsuspected and sombre quality of her soul had responded to the horror
of our situation. The fierce trials had gradually developed her, as burning sunshine opens
the bud of a flower; and I beheld her now in the plenitude of her nature. From time to time
Castro would raise up to her his blinking old eyes, full of timidity and distress.

He had not been young enough to throw himself over--he had worn the chain for too many years,
had lived well and softly too long, was too old a slave. And yet--if he had had the courage
of the act! Who knows? I rejected the thought far from me. It returned, and I caught myself
looking at him with irritated eyes. But this first day passed not intolerably. We ignored our
sufferings. Indeed, I felt none for my part. We had kept our thoughts bound to the slow blank
minutes. And if we exchanged a few words now and then, it was to speak of patience, of resolution
to endure and to hope.

At night, from the hot ravine full of shadows, came the cool fretting of the stream. The big
blaze they kept up above crackled distinctly, throwing a fiery, restless stain on the face
of the rock in front of the cave, high up under the darkness and the stars of the sky--and
a pair of feet would appear stamping, the shadow of a pair of ankles and feet, fantastic, sustaining
no gigantic body, but enormous, tramping slowly, resembling two coffins leaping to a slow measure.
I see them in my dreams now, sometimes. They disappeared.

Manuel would sing; far in the night the monotonous staccato of the guitar went on, accompanying
plaintive murmurs, outbursts of anger and cries of pain, the tremulous moans of sorrow. My
nerves vibrated, I broke my nails on the rock, and seemed to hear once more the parody of all
the transports and of every anguish, even to death--a tragic and ignoble rendering of life.
He was a true artist, powerful and scorned, admired with derision, obeyed with jeers. It was
a song of mourning; he sat on the brink with his feet dangling over the precipice that sent
him back his inspired tones with a confused noise of sobs and desolation.... His idol had been
snatched from the humility of his adoring silence, like a falling star from the sight of the
worm that crawls.... He stormed on the strings; and his voice emerged like the crying of a
castaway in the tumult of the gale. He apostrophized his instrument.... Woe! Woe! No more songs.
He would break it. Its work was done. He would dash it against the rock.... His palm slapped
the hollow wood furiously.... So that it should lie shattered and mute like his own heart!

A frenzied explosion of yells, jests, and applause covered the finale.

A complete silence would follow, as if in the acclamations they had exhausted at once every
bestial sound. Somebody would cough pitifully for a long time--and when he had done spluttering
and cursing, the world outside appeared lost in an even more profound stillness. The red stain
of the fire wavered across to play under the dark brow of the rock. The irritated murmur of
the torrent, tearing along below, returned timidly at first, expanded, filled the ravine, ran
through my ears in an angry babble. The deadened footfalls on the brink sometimes dislodged
a pebble: it would start with a feeble rattle and be heard no more.

In the daytime, too, there were silences up there, perfect, profound. No prowl of feet disturbed
them; the sun blazed between the rocks, and even the hum of insects could be heard. It seemed
impossible not to believe that they had all died by a miracle, or else had been driven away
by a silent panic. But two or more were always on the watch, directly above, with their heads
over the edge; and suddenly they would begin to talk together in drowsy tones. It was as if
some barbarous somnambulists had mumbled in the daytime the bizarre atrocity of their thoughts.

They discussed Williams' flask, which had been picked up. Was the cup made of silver, they
wondered. Manuel had appropriated it for his own use, it seems. Well--he was the capataz. The
Inglez, should he appear by an impossible chance, was to be shot down at once; but Castro must
be allowed to give himself up. And they would snigger ferociously. Sometimes quarrels arose,
very noisy, a great hubbub of bickerings touching their jealousies, their fears, their unspeakable
hopes of murder and rapine. They did not feel very safe where they were. Some would maintain
that Castro could not have saved himself, alone. The Inglez was there, and even the senorita
herself... Manuel scouted the idea with contempt. He advanced the violence of the storm, the
fury of the waves, the broken mast, the position of the boat. How could they expect a woman!....
No. It was as his song had it. And he defended his point of view angrily, as though he could
not bear being robbed of that source of poetical inspiration. He emitted profound sighs and
superb declamations.

Castro and I listened to them at the mouth of the cave. Our tongues were dry and swollen in
our mouths, there was the pressure of an iron clutch on our windpipes, fire in our throats,
and the pangs of hunger that tore at us like iron pincers. But we could hear that the bandits
above were anxious to be gone; they had but very few charges for their guns, and it was apparent
that they were afraid of a collision with the peons of the hacienda. Glaring at each other
with bloodshot, uncertain eyes, Castro and I imagined longingly a vision of men in ponchos
spurring madly out of the woods, bent low, and swinging riatas over the necks of their horses--with
the thunder of the galloping hoofs in the cave. Seraphina had withdrawn further into the darkness.
And, with a shrinking fear, I would join her, to eat my heart out by the side of her tense
and mute contemplation.

Sometimes Manuel would begin again, "Castro! Castro! Castro!" till he seemed to stagger the
rocks and disturb the placid sunshine with an immense wave of sound. He called upon his victim
to drink once more before he died. Long shrieks of derision rent the air, as if torn out of
his breast by far greater torments than any his fancy delighted to invent. There was something
terrible and weird in the abundance of words screeched continuously, without end, as if in
desperation. No wonder Castro fled from the passage. And Seraphina and I, within, would be
startled out of our half-delirious state by the sudden appearance of that old man, disordered,
sordid, with a white beard sprouting, who wandered, weeping aloud in the twilight.

More than once I would stagger off far away into the depths of the cavern in an access of rage,
fling myself on the floor, bite my arms, beat my head on the rock. I would give myself up.
She must be saved from this tortured death. She had said she would throw herself over if I
left her. But would she have the strength? It was impossible to know. For days it seemed she
had been lying perfectly still, on her side, one hand under her wan cheek, and only answering
"Juan" when I pronounced her name. There was something awful in our dry whispers. They were
lifeless, like the tones of the dead, if the dead ever speak to each other across the earth
separating the graves. The moral suffering, joined to the physical torture of hunger and thirst,
annihilated my will in a measure, but also kindled a vague, gnawing feeling of hostility against
her. She asked too much of me. It was too much. And I would drag myself back to sit for hours,
and with an aching heart look towards her couch from a distance.

My eyes, accustomed to obscurity, traced an indistinct and recumbent form. Her forehead was
white; her hair merged into the darkness which was gathering slowly upon her eyes, her cheeks,
her throat. She was perfectly still. It was cruel, it was odious, it was intolerable to be
so still. This must end. I would carry her out by main force. She said no word, but there was
in the embrace of those arms instantly thrown around my neck, in the feel of those dry lips
pressed upon mine, in the emaciated face, in the big shining eyes of that being as light as
a feather, a passionate mournfulness of seduction, a tenacious clinging to the appointed fate,
that suddenly overawed my movement of rage. I laid her down again, and covered my face with
my hands. She called out to Castro. He reeled, as if drunk, and waited at the head of her couch,
with his chin dropped on his breast. "Vuestra, Señoria," he muttered.

"Listen well, Castro." Her voice was very faint, and each word came alone, as if shrunk and
parched. "Can my gold--the promise of much gold--you know these men--save the lives...?"

He uttered a choked cry, and began to tremble, groping for her hand.

"Si, Señorita. Excellency, si. It would. Mercy. Save me. I am too old to bear this. Gold, yes;
much gold. Manuel...."

"Listen, Castro.... And Don Juan?" His head fell again. "Speak the truth, Castro."

He struggled with himself; then, rattling in his throat, shrieked "No!" with a terrible effort.
"No. Nothing can save thy English lover." "Why?" she breathed feebly. He raged at her in his
weakness. Why? Because the order had gone forth; because they dared not disobey. Because she
had only gold in the palm of her hand, while Señor O'Brien held all their lives in his. The
accursed Juez was for them like death itself that walks amongst men, taking this one, leaving
another.

He was their life, and their law, and their safety, and their death--and the caballero had
not killed him....

His voice seemed to wither and dry up gradually in his throat. He crawled away, and we heard
him chuckling horribly somewhere, like a madman. Seraphina stretched out her hand.

"Then, Juan--why not together--like this?"

If she had the courage of this death, I must have even more. It was a point of honour. I had
no wish, and no right, to seek for some easier way out of life. But she had a woman's capacity
for passive endurance, a serenity of mind in this martyrdom confessing to something sinister
in the power of love that, like faith, can move mountains and order cruel sacrifices. She could
have walked out in perfect safety--and it was that thought that maddened me. And there was
no sleep; there were only intervals in which I could fall into a delirious reverie of still
lakes, of vast sheets of water. I waded into them up to my lips. Never further. They were smooth
and cold as ice; I stood in them shivering and straining for a draught, burning within with
the fire of thirst, while a phantom all pale, and with its hair streaming, called to me "Courage!"
from the brink in Seraphina's voice. As to Castro, he was going mad. He was simply going mad,
as people go mad for want of food and drink. And yet he seemed to keep his strength. He was
never still. It was a factitious strength, the restlessness of incipient insanity. Once, while
I was trying to talk with him about our only hope--the peons--he gave me a look of such sombre
distraction that I left off, intimidated, to wonder vaguely at this glimpse of something hidden
and excessive springing from torments which surely could be no greater than mine.

He had the strength, and sometimes he could find the voice, to hurl abuse, curses, and imprecations
from the mouth of the cave. Great shouts of laughter exploded above, and they seemed to hold
their breath to hear more; or Manuel, hanging over, would praise in mocking, mellifluous accents
the energy of his denunciations. I tried to pull him away from there, but he turned upon me
fiercely; and from prudence--for all hope was not dead in me yet--I left him alone.

That night I heard him make an extraordinary sound chewing; at the same time he was sobbing
and cursing stealthily. He had found something to eat, then! I could not believe my ears, but
I began to creep towards the sound, and suddenly there was a short, mad scuffle in the darkness,
during which I nearly spitted myself on his blade. At last, trembling in every limb, with my
blood beating furiously in my ears, I scrambled to my feet, holding a small piece of meat in
my hands. Instantly, without hesitating, without thinking, I plunged my teeth into it only
to fling it far away from me with a frantic execration. This was the first sound uttered since
we had grappled. Lying prone near me, Castro, with a rattle in his throat, tried to laugh.

This was a supreme touch of Manuel's art; they were pressed for time, and he had hit upon that
deep and politic invention to hasten the surrender of his beloved victim. I nearly cried with
the fiery pain on my cracked lips. That piece of half-putrid flesh was salt--horribly salt--salt
like salt itself. Whenever they heard him rave and mutter at the mouth of the cave, they would
throw down these prepared scraps. It was as if I had put a live coal into my mouth.

"Ha!" he croaked feebly. "Have you thrown it away? I, too; the first piece. No matter. I can
no more swallow anything, now."

His voice was like the rustling of parchment at my feet.

"Do not look for it, Don Juan. The sinners in hell.... Ha! Fiend. I could not resist."

I sank down by his side. He seemed to be writhing on the floor muttering, "Thirst--thirst--thirst."
His blade clicked on the rock; then all was still. Was he dead? Suddenly he began with an amazingly
animated utterance.

"Señor! For this they had to kill cattle."

This thought had kept him up. Probably, they had been firing shots. But there was a way of
hamstringing a stalked cow silently; and the plains were vast, the grass on them was long;
the carcasses would lie hidden out of sight; the herds were rounded up only twice every year.
His despairing voice died out in a mournful fall, and again he was as still as death.

"No! I can bear this no longer," he uttered with force. He refused to bear it. He suffered
too much. There was no hope. He would overwhelm them with maledictions, and then leap down
from the ledge. "Adios, Señor."

I stretched out my arm and caught him by the leg. It seemed to me I could not part with him.
It would have been disloyal, an admission that all was over, the beginning of the end. We were
exhausting ourselves by this sort of imbecile wrestling. Meantime, I kept on entreating him
to be a man; and at last I managed to clamber upon his chest. "A man!" he sighed. I released
him. For a space, unheard in the darkness, he seemed to be collecting all his remaining strength.

"Oh, those strange Inglez! Why should I not leap? and whom do you love best or hate more, me
or the senorita? Be thou a man, also, and pray God to give thee reason to understand men for
once in thy life. Ha! Enamoured woman--he is a fool! But I, Castro...."

His whispering became appallingly unintelligible, then ceased, passing into a moan. My will
to restrain him abandoned me. He had brought this on us. And if he really wished to give up
the struggle....

"Señor," he mumbled brokenly, "a thousand thanks. Br-r-r! Oh, the ugly water--water--water--water--salt
water--salt! You saved me. Why? Let God be the Judge. I would have preferred a malignant demon
for a friend. I forgive you. Adios! And---Her Excellency--poor Castro.... Ha! Thou old scorpion,
encircled by fire--by fire and thirst. No. No scorpion, alas! Only a man--not like you--therefore--a
Mass--or two--perhaps...."

The freshness of the night penetrated through the arch, as far as the faint twilight of the
day. I heard his tearful muttering creep away from my side. "Thirst--thirst--thirst." I did
not stir; and an incredulity, a weariness, the sense of our common fate, mingled with an unconfessed
desire--the desire of seeing what would come of it--a desire that stirred my blood like a glimmer
of hope, and prevented me from making a movement or uttering a whisper. If his sufferings were
so great, who was I to... Mine, too. I almost envied him. He was free.

As if an inward obscurity had parted in two I looked to the very bottom of my thoughts. And
his action appeared like a sacrifice. It could liberate us two from this cave before it was
too late. He, he alone, was the prey they had trapped. They would be satisfied, probably. Nay!
There could be no doubt. Directly he was dead they would depart. Ah! he wanted to leap. He
must not be allowed. Now that I understood perfectly what this meant, I had to prevent him.
There was no choice. I must stop him at any cost.

The awakening of my conscience sent me to my feet; but before I had stumbled halfway through
the passage I heard his shout in the open air, "Behold me!"

A man outside cried excitedly, "He is out!"

An exulting tumult fell into the arch, the clash of twenty voices yelling in different keys,
"He is out--the traitor! He is out!" I was too late, but I made three more hesitating steps
and stood blinded. The flaming branches they were holding over the precipice showered a multitude
of sparks, that fell disappearing continuously in the lurid light, shutting out the night from
the mouth of the cave. And in this light Castro could be seen kneeling on the other side of
the sill.

With his fingers clutching the edge of the slab, he hung outwards, his head falling back, his
spine arched tensely, like a bow; and the red sparks coming from above with the dancing whirl
of snowflakes, vanished in the air before they could settle on his face.

"Manuel! Manuel!"

They answered with a deep, confused growl, jostling and crowding on the edge to look down into
his eyes. Meantime I stared at the convulsive heaving of his breast, at his upturned chin,
his swelling throat. He defied Manuel. He would leap. Behold! he was going to leap--to his
own death--in his own time. He challenged them to come down on the ledge; and the blade of
the maimed arm waved to and fro stiffly, point up, like a red-hot weapon in the light. He devoted
them to pestilence, to English gallows, to the infernal powers: while all the time commenting
murmurs passed over his head, as though he had extorted their sinister appreciation.

"Canalla! dogs, thieves, prey of death, vermin of hell--I spit on you--like this!"

He had not the force, nor the saliva, and remained straining mutely upwards while they laughed
at him all together, with something sombre, and as if doomed in their derision.... "He will
jump! No, he will not!" "Yes! Leap, Castro! Spit, Castro!" "He will run back into the cave!
Maladetta!"... Manuel's voiced cooed lovingly on the brink:

"Come to us and drink, Castro."

I waited for his leap with doubt, with disbelief, in the helpless agitation of the weak. Gradually
he seemed to relax all over.

"Drink deep; drink, and drink, and drink, Castro. Water. Clear water, cool water. Taste, Castro!"

He called on him in tones that were almost tender in their urgency, to come and drink before
he died. His voice seemed to cast a spell, like an incantation, upon the tubby little figure,
with something yearning in the upward turn of the listening face.

"Drink!" Manuel repeated the word several times; then, suddenly he called, "Taste, Castro,
taste," and a descending brightness, as of a crystal rod hurled from above, shivered to nothing
on the upturned face. The light disappearing from before the cave seemed scared away by the
inhuman discord of his shriek; and I flung myself forward to lick the splash of moisture on
the sill. I did not think of Castro, I had forgotten him. I raged at the deception of my thirst,
exploring with my tongue the rough surface of the stone till I tasted my own blood. Only then,
raising my head to gasp, and clench my fists with a baffled and exasperated desire, I noticed
how profound was the silence, in which the words, "Take away his sting," seemed to pronounce
themselves over the ravine in the impersonal austerity of the rock, and with the tone of a
tremendous decree.

CHAPTER TEN

He had surrendered to his thirst. What weakness! He had not thrown himself over, then. What
folly! One splash of water on his face had been enough. He was contemptible; and lying collapsed,
in a sort of tormented apathy, at the mouth of the cave, I despised and envied his good fortune.
It could not save him from death, but at least he drank. I understood this when I heard his
voice, a voice altogether altered--a firm, greedy voice saying, "More," breathlessly. And then
he drank again. He was drinking. He was drinking up there in the light of the fire, in a circle
of mortal enemies, under Manuel's gloating eyes. Drinking! O happiness! O delight! What a miserable
wretch! I clawed the stone convulsively; I think I would have rushed out for my share if I
had not heard Manuel's cruel and caressing voice:

"How now? You do not want to throw yourself over, my Castro?"

"I have drunk," he said gloomily.

I think they must have given him something to eat then. In my mind there are many blanks in
the vision of that scene, a vision built upon a few words reaching me, suddenly, with great
intervals of silence between, as though I had been coming to myself out of a dead faint now
and then. A ferocious hum of many voices would rise sometimes impatiently, the scrambling of
feet near the edge; or, in a sinister and expectant stillness, Manuel the artist would be speaking
to his "beloved victim Castro" in a gentle and insinuating voice that seemed to tremble slightly
with eagerness. Had he eaten and drunk enough? They had kept their promises, he said. They
would keep them all. The water had been cool--and presently he, Manuel-del-Popolo, would accompany
with his guitar and his voice the last moments of his victim. Bursts of laughter punctuated
his banter. Ah! that Manuel, that Manuel! Some actually swore in admiration. But was Castro
really at his ease? Was it not good to eat and drink? Had he quite returned to life? But, Caramba,
amigos, what neglect! The caballero who has honoured us must smoke. They shouted in high glee:
"Yes. Smoke, Castro. Let him smoke." I suppose he did; and Manuel expounded to him how pleasant
life was in which one could eat, and drink, and smoke. His words tortured me. Castro remained
mute--from disdain, from despair, perhaps. Afterwards they carried him along clear of the cornice,
and I understood they formed a half-circle round him, drawing their knives. Manuel, screeching
in a high falsetto, ordered the bonds of his feet to be cut. I advanced my head out as far
as I dared; their voices reached me deadened; I could only see the profound shadow of the ravine,
a patch of dark clear sky opulent with stars, and the play of the firelight on the opposite
side. The shadow of a pair of monumental feet, and the lower edge of a cloak, spread amply
like a skirt, stood out in it, intensely black and motionless, right in front of the cave.
Now and then, elbowed in the surge round Castro, the guitar emitted a deep and hollow resonance.
He was tumultuously ordered to stand up and, I imagine, he was being pricked with the points
of their knives till he did get on his feet. "Jump!" they roared all together--and Manuel began
to finger the strings, lifting up his voice between the gusts of savage hilarity, mingled with
cries of death. He exhorted his followers to close on the traitor inch by inch, presenting
their knives.

"He runs here and there, the blood trickling from his limbs--but in vain, this is the appointed
time for the leap...."

It was an improvisation; they stamped their feet to the slow measure; they shouted in chorus
the one word "Leap!" raising a ferocious roar; and between whiles the song of voice and strings
came to me from a distance, softened and lingering in a voluptuous and pitiless cadence that
wrung my heart, and seemed to eat up the remnants of my strength. But what could I have done,
even if I had had the strength of a giant, and a most fearless resolution? I should have been
shot dead before I had crawled halfway up the ledge. A piercing shriek covered the guitar,
the song, and the wild merriment.

Then everything seemed to stop--even my own painful breathing. Again Castro shrieked like a madman:

"Señorita--your gold. Señorita! Hear me! Help!"

Then all was still.

"Hear the dead calling to the dead," sneered Manuel.

An awestruck sort of hum proceeded from the Spaniards. Was the senorita alive? In the cave?
Or where?

"Her nod would have saved thee, Castro," said Manuel slowly. I got up. I heard Castro stammer
wildly:

"She shall fill both your hands with gold. Do you hear, hombres? I, Castro, tell you--each
man--both hands------"

He had done it. The last hope was gone now. And all that there remained for me to do was to
leap over or give myself up, and end this horrible business.

"She was a creature born to command the moon and the stars," Manuel mused aloud in a vibrating
tone, and suddenly smote the strings with emphatic violence. She could even stay his vengeance.
But was it possible! No, no. It could not be--and yet....

"Thou art alive yet, Castro," he cried. "Thou hast eaten and drunk; life is good--is it not,
old man?--and the leap is high."

He thundered "Silence!" to still the excited murmurs of his band. If she lived Castro should
live, too--he, Manuel, said so; but he threatened him with horrible tortures, with two days
of slow dying, if he dared to deceive. Let him, then, speak the truth quickly.

"Speak, 'viejo'. Where is she?"

And at the opening, fifty yards away, I was tempted to call out, as though I had loved Castro
well enough to save him from the shame and remorse of a plain betrayal. That the moment of
it had come I could have no doubt. And it was I myself, perhaps, who could not face the certitude
of his downfall. If my throat had not been so compressed, so dry with thirst and choked with
emotion, I believe I should have cried out and brought them away from that miserable man with
a rush. Since we were lost, he at least should be saved from this. I suffered from his spasmodic,
agonized laugh away there, with twenty knives aimed at his breast and the eighty-foot drop
of the precipice at his back. Why did he hesitate?

I was to learn, then, that the ultimate value of life to all of us is based on the means of
self-deception. Morally he had his back against the wall, he could not hope to deceive himself;
and after Manuel had cried again at him, "Where are they?" in a really terrible tone, I heard
his answer:

"At the bottom of the sea."

He had his own courage after all--if only the courage not to believe in Manuel's promises.
And he must have been weary of his life--weary enough not to pay that price. And yet he had
gone to the very verge, calling upon Seraphina as if she could hear him. Madness of fear, no
doubt--succeeded by an awakening, a heroic reaction. And yet sometimes it seems to me as if
the whole scene, with his wild cries for help, had been the outcome of a supreme exercise of
cunning. For, indeed, he could not have invented anything better to bring the conviction of
our death to the most sceptical of those ruffians. All I heard after his words had been a great
shout, followed by a sudden and unbroken silence. It seemed to last a very long time. He had
thrown himself over! It is like the blank space of a swoon to me, and yet it must have been
real enough, because, huddled up just inside the sill, with my head reposing wearily on the
stone, I watched three moving flames of lighted branches carried by men follow each other closely
in a swaying descent along the path on the other side of the ravine. They passed on downwards,
flickering out of view. Then, after a time, a voice below, to the left of the cave, ascended
with a hooting and mournful effect from the depths.

"Manuel! Manuel! We have found him!... Es muerte!"

And from above Manuel's shout rolled, augmented, between the rocks.

"Bueno! Turn his face up--for the birds!"

They continued calling to each other for a good while. The men below declared their intention
of going on to the sea shore; and Manuel shouted to them not to forget to send him up a good
rope early in the morning. Apparently, the schooner had been refloated some time before; many
of the Lugareños were to sleep on board. They purposed to set sail early next day.

This revived me, and I spent the night between Seraphina's couch and the mouth of the cave,
keeping tight hold of my reason that seemed to lose itself in this hope, in this darkness,
in this torment. I touched her cheek, it was hot--while her forehead felt to my fingers as
cold as ice. I had no more voice, but I tried to force out some harsh whispers through my throat.
They sounded horrible to my own ears, and she endeavoured to soothe me by murmuring my name
feebly. I believe she thought me delirious. I tried to pray for my strength to last till I
could carry her out of that cave to the side of the brook--then let death come. "Live, live,"
I whispered into her ear, and would hear a sigh so faint, so feeble, that it swayed all my
soul with pity and fear, "Yes, Juan."... And I would go away to watch for the dawn from the
mouth of the cave, and curse the stars that would not fade.

Manuel's voice always steadied me. A languor had come over them above, as if their passion
had been exhausted; as if their hearts had been saddened by an unbridled debauch. There was,
however, their everlasting quarrelling. Several of them, I understood, left the camp for the
schooner, but avoiding the road by the ravine as if Castro's dead body down there had made
it impassable. And the talk went on late into the night. There was some superstitious fear
attached to the cave--a legend of men who had gone in and had never come back any more. All
they knew of it was the region of twilight; formerly, when they used the shelter of the cavern,
no one, it seems, ever ventured outside the circle of the fire. Manuel disdained their fears.
Had he not been such a profound politico, a man of stratagems, there would have been a necessity
to go down and see.... They all protested.

Who was going down? Not they.... Their craven cowardice was amazing.

He begged them to keep themselves quiet. They had him for Capataz now. A man of intelligence.
Had he not enticed Castro out? He had never believed there was any one else in there. He sighed.
Otherwise Castro would have tried to save his life by confessing. There had been nothing to
confess. But he had the means of making sure. A voice suggested that the Inglez might have
withdrawn himself into the depths. These English were not afraid of demons, being devils themselves;
and this one was fiendishly reckless. But Manuel observed, contemptuously, that a man trapped
like this would remain near the opening. Hope would keep him there till he died--unless he
rushed out like Castro-Manuel laughed, but in a mournful tone: and, listening to the craven
talk of their doubts and fears, it seemed to me that if I could appear at one bound amongst
them, they would scatter like chaff before my glance It seemed intolerable to wait; more than
human strength could bear. Would the day never come? A drowsiness stole upon their voices.

Manuel kept watch. He fed the fire, and his incomplete shadow, projected across the chasm,
would pass and return, obscuring the glow that fell on the rock. His footsteps seemed to measure
the interminable duration of the night. Sometimes he would stop short and talk to himself in
low, exalted mutters. A big bright star rested on the brow of the rock opposite, shining straight
into my eyes. It sank, as if it had plunged into the stone. At last. Another came to look into
the cavern. I watched the gradual coming of a gray sheen from the side of Seraphina's couch.
This was the day, the last day of pain, or else of life. Its ghostly edge invaded slowly the
darkness of the cave towards its appointed limit, creeping slowly, as colourless as spilt water
on the floor. I pressed my lips silently upon her cheek. Her eyes were open. It seemed to me
she had a smile fainter than her sighs. She was very brave, but her smile did not go beyond
her lips. Not a feature of her face moved. I could have opened my veins for her without hesitation,
if it had not been a forbidden sacrifice.

Would they go? I asked myself. Through Castro's heroism or through his weakness, perhaps through
both the heroism and the weakness of that man, they must be satisfied. They must be. I could
not doubt it; I could not believe it. Everything seemed improbable; everything seemed possible.
If they descended I would, I thought, have the strength to carry her off, away into the darkness.
If there was any truth in what I had overheard them saying, that the depths of the cavern concealed
an abyss, we would cast ourselves into it.

The feeble, consenting pressure of her hand horrified me. They would not come down. They were
afraid of that place, I whispered to her--and I thought to myself that such cowardice was incredible.
Our fate was sealed. And yet from what I had heard....

We watched the daylight growing in the opening; at any moment it might have been obscured by
their figures. The tormenting incertitudes of that hour were cruel enough to overcome, almost,
the sensations of thirst, of hunger, to engender a restlessness that had the effect of renewed
vigour. They were like a nightmare; but that nightmare seemed to clear my mind of its feverish
hallucinations. I was more collected, then, than I had been for the last forty-eight hours
of our imprisonment. But I could not remain there, waiting. It was absolutely necessary that
I should watch at the entrance for the moment of their departure.

The morning was serenely cool and, in its stillness, their talk filled with clear-cut words
the calm air of the ravine. A party--I could not tell how many--had already come up from the
schooner in a great state of excitement. They feared that their presence had, in some way,
become known to the peons of the hacienda. There was much abuse of a man called Carneiro, who,
the day before, had fired an incautious shot at a fat cow on one of the inland savannas. They
cursed him. Last night, before the moon rose, those on board the schooner had heard the whinnying
of a horse. Somebody had ridden down to the water's edge in the darkness and, after waiting
a while, had galloped back the way he came. The prints of hoofs on the beach showed that.

They feared these horsemen greatly. A vengeance was owing for the man Manuel had killed; and
I could guess they talked with their faces over their shoulders. "And what about finding out
whether the Inglez was there, dead or alive?" asked some.

I was sure, now, that they would not come down in a body. It would expose them to the danger
of being caught in the cavern by the peons. There was no time for a thorough search, they argued.

For the first time that morning I heard Manuel's voice, "Stand aside."

He came down to the very brink.

"If the Inglez is down there, and if he is alive, he is listening to us now."

He was as certain as though he had been able to see me. He added:

"But there's no one."

"Go and look, Manuel," they cried.

He said something in a tone of contempt. The Voices above my head sank into busy murmurs.

"Give me the rope here," he said aloud.

I had a feeling of some inconceivable danger nearing me; and in my state of weakness I began
to tremble, backing away from the orifice. I had no strength in my limbs. I had no weapons.
How could I fight? I would use my teeth. With a light knocking against the rock above the arch,
Williams' flask, tied by its green cord to the end of a thick rope, descended slowly, and hung
motionless before the entrance.

It had been freshly filled with water; it was dripping wet outside, and the silver top, struck
by the sunbeams, dazzled my eyes.

This was the danger--this bait. And it seems to me that if I had had the slightest inkling
of what was coming, I should have rushed at it instantly. But it took me some time to understand--to
take in the idea that this was water, there, within reach of my hand. With a great effort I
resisted the madness that incited me to hurl myself upon the flask. I hung back with all my
power. A convulsive spasm contracted my throat. I turned about and fled out of the passage.

I ran to Seraphina. "Put out your hand to me," I panted in the darkness. "I need your help."

I felt it resting lightly on my bowed head. She did not even ask me what I meant; as if the
greatness of her soul was omniscient. There was, in that silence, a supreme unselfishness,
the unquestioning devotion of a woman.

"Patience, patience," I kept on muttering. I was losing confidence in myself. If only I had
been free to dash my head against the rock. I had the courage for that, yet. But this was a
situation from which there was no issue in death.

"We are saved," I murmured distractedly.

"Patience," she breathed out. Her hand slipped languidly off my head.

And I began to creep away from her side. I am here to tell the truth. I began to creep away
towards the flask. I did not confess this to myself; but I know now. There was a devilish power
in it. I have learned the nature of feelings in a man whom Satan beguiles into selling his
soul--the horror of an irresistible and fatal longing for a supreme felicity. And in a drink
of water for me, then, there was a greater promise than in universal knowledge, in unbounded
power, in unlimited wealth, in imperishable youth. What could have been these seductions to
a drink? No soul had thirsted after things unlawful as my parched throat thirsted for water.
No devil had ever tempted a man with such a bribe of perdition.

I suffered from the lucidity of my feelings. I saw, with indignation, my own wretched self
being angled for like a fish. And with all that, in my forlorn state, I remained prudent. I
did not rush out blindly. No. I approached the inner end of the passage, as though I had been
stalking a wild creature, slowly, from the side. I crept along the wall of the cavern, and
protruded my head far enough to look at the fiendish temptation.

There it was, a small dark object suspended in the light, with the yellow rock across the ravine
for a background. The silver top shivered the sunbeams brilliantly. I had half hopes they had
taken it away by this time. When I drew my head back I lost sight of it, but all my being went
out to it with an almost pitiful longing. I remembered Castro for the first time in many hours.
Was I nothing better than Castro? He had been angled for with salted meat. I shuddered. A darkness
fell into the passage. I put down my uplifted foot without advancing. The unexpectedness of
that shadow saved me, I believe. Manuel had descended the cornice.

He was alone. Standing before the outer opening, he darkened the passage, through which his
talk to the people above came loudly into my ears. They could see now if he were not a worthy
Capataz. If the Inglez was in there he was a corpse. And yet, of these living hearts above,
of these valientes of Rio Medio, there was not one who would go alone to look upon a dead body.
He had contrived an infallible test, and yet they would not believe him. Well, his valiance
should prove it; his valiance, afraid neither of light nor of darkness.

I could not hear the answers he got from up there; but the vague sounds that reached me carried
the usual commingling of derision and applause, the resentment of their jeers at the admiration
he knew how to extort by the display of his talents.

They must kill the cattle, these caballeros. He scolded ironically. Of course. They must feed
on meat like lions; but their souls were like the souls of hens born on dunghills. And behold!
there was he, Manuel, not afraid of shadows.

He was coming in, there could be no doubt. Out there in the full light, he could not possibly
have detected that rapid appearance of my head darted forward and withdrawn at once; but I
had a view of his arm putting aside the swinging flask, of his leg raised to step over the
high sill. I saw him, and I ran noiselessly away from the opening.

I had the time to charge Seraphina not to move, on our lives--on the wretched remnant of our
lives--when his black shape stood in the frame of the opening, edged with a thread of light
following the contour of his hat, of his shoulders, of his whole body down to his feet--whence
a long shadow fell upon the pool of twilight on the floor.

What had made him come down? Vanity? The exacting demands of his leadership? Fear of O'Brien?
The Juez would expect to hear something definite, and his band pretended not to believe in
the stratagem of the bottle. I think that, for his part, from his knowledge of human nature,
he never doubted its efficacy. He could not guess how very little, only, he was wrong. How
very little! And yet he seemed rooted in incertitude on the threshold. His head turned from
side to side. I could not make out his face as he stood, but the slightest of his movements
did not escape me. He stepped aside, letting in all the fullness of the light.

Would he have the courage to explore at least the immediate neighbourhood of the opening? Who
could tell his complex motives? Who could tell his purpose or his fears? He had killed a man
in there once. But, then, he had not been alone. If he were only showing off before his unruly
band, he need not stir a step further. He did not advance. He leaned his shoulders against
the rock just clear of the opening. One half of him was lighted plainly; his long profile,
part of his raven locks, one listless hand, his crossed legs, the buckle of one shoe.

"Nobody," he pronounced slowly, in a dead whisper.

While I looked at him, the profound politico, the artist, the everlastingly questioned Capataz,
the man of talent and ability, he thought himself alone, and allowed his head to drop on his
breast, as if saddened by the vanity of human ambition. Then, lifting it with a jerk, he listened
with one ear turned to the passage; afterwards he peered into the cavern. Two long strides,
over the cold heap of ashes, brought him to the stone seat.

It was very plain to me from his starting movements and attitudes, that he shared his uneasy
attention between the inside and the outside of the cave. He sat down, but seemed ready to
jump up; and I saw him turn his eyes upwards to the dark vault, as if on the alert for a noise
from above. I am inclined to think he was expecting to hear the galloping hoofs of the peons'
horses every moment. I think he did. The words "I am safer here than they above," were perfectly
audible to me in the mumbling he kept up nervously. He wished to hear the sound of his own
voice, as a timid person whistles and talks on a lonely road at night. Only the year before
he had killed a man in that cavern, under circumstances that were, I believe, revolting even
to the honour of these bandits. He sat there between the shadow of his murder and the reality
of the vengeance. I asked myself what could be the outcome of a struggle with him. He was armed;
he was not weakened by hunger; but he stood between us and the water. My thirst would give
me strength; the desire to end Seraphina's sufferings would make me invincible. On the other
hand, it was dangerous to interfere. I could not tell whether they would not try to find out
what became of him. It was safest to let him go. It was extremely improbable that they would
sail without him.

I am not conscious of having stirred a limb; neither had Seraphina moved, I am ready to swear;
but plainly something, some sort of sound, startled him. He bounded out of his seated immobility,
and in one leap had his shoulders against the rock standing at bay before the darkness, with
his knife in his hand. I wonder he did not surprise me into an exclamation. I was as startled
as himself. His teeth and the whites of his eyes gleamed straight at me from afar; he hissed
with fear; for an instant I was firmly convinced he had seen me. All this took place so quickly
that I had no time to make one movement towards receiving his attack, when I saw him make a
great sign of the cross in the air with the point of his dagger.

He sheathed it slowly, and sidled along the few feet to the entrance, his shoulders rubbing
the wall. He blocked out the light, and in a moment had backed out of sight.

Before he got to the further end I was already, at the inner, creeping after him. I had started
at once, as if his disappearance had removed a spell, as though he had drawn me after him by
an invisible bond. Raising myself on my forearms I saw him, from his knees up, standing outside
the sill, with his back to the precipice and his face turned up.

"There is nobody in there," he shouted.

I sank down and wriggled forward on my stomach, raising myself on my elbows, now and then,
to look. Manuel was looking upwards conversing with the people above, and holding Williams'
flask in both his hands. He never once glanced into the passage; he seemed to be trying to
undo the cord knotted to the end of the thick rope, which hung in a long bight before him.
The flask captured my eyes, my thought, my energy. I would tear it away from him directly.
There was in me, then, neither fear nor intelligence; only the desire of possessing myself
of the thing; but an instinctive caution prevented my rushing out violently. I proceeded with
an animal-like stealthiness, with which cool reason had nothing to do.

He had some difficulty with the knot, and evidently did not wish to cut the green silk cord.
How well I remember his fumbling fingers. He sat down sideways on the sill, with his legs outside,
of course, his face and hands turned to the light, very absorbed in his endeavour. They shouted
to him from above.

"I come at once," he cried to them, without lifting his head.

I had crept up almost near enough to grab the flask. It never occurred to me that by flinging
myself on him, I could have pushed him off the sill. My only idea was to get hold. He did not
exist for me. The leather-covered bottle was the only real thing in the world. I was completely
insane. I heard a faint detonation, and Manuel got up quickly from the sill. The flask was
out of my reach.

There were more popping sounds of shots fired, away on the plain. The peons were attacking
an outpost of the Lugareños. A deep voice cried, "They are driving them in." Then several together
yelled:

"Come away, Manuel. Come away. Por Dios...."

Stretched at full length in the passage, and sustaining myself on my trembling arms, I gazed
up at him. He stood very rigid, holding the flask in both hands. Several muskets were discharged
together just above, and in the noise of the reports I remember a voice crying urgently over
the edge, "Manuel! Manuel!" The shadow of irresolution passed over his features. He hesitated
whether to run up the ledge or bolt into the cave. He shouted something. He was not answered,
but the yelling and the firing ceased suddenly, as if the Lugareños had given up and taken
to their heels. I became aware of a sort of increasing throbbing sound that seemed to come
from behind me, out of the cave; then, as Manuel lifted his foot hastily to step over the sill,
I jumped up deliriously, and with outstretched hands lurched forward at the flask in his fingers.

I believe I laughed at him in an imbecile manner.

Somebody laughed; and I remember the superior smile on his face passing into a ghastly grin,
that disappeared slowly, while his astonished eyes, glaring at that gaunt and dishevelled apparition
rising before him in the dusk of the passage, seemed to grow to an enormous size. He drew back
his foot, as though it had been burnt; and in a panic-stricken impulse, he flung the flask
straight into my face, and staggered away from the sill.

I made a catch at it with a scream of triumph, whose unearthly sound brought me back to my senses.

"In the name of God, retire," he cried, as though I had been an apparition from another world.

What took place afterwards happened with an inconceivable rapidity, in less time than it takes
to draw breath. He never recognized me. I saw his glare of incredulous awe change, suddenly,
to horror and despair. He had felt himself losing his balance.

He had stepped too far back. He tried to recover himself, but it was too late. He hung for
a moment in his backward fall; his arms beat the air, his body curled upon itself with an awful
striving. All at once he went limp all over, and, with the sunlight full upon his upturned
face, vanished downwards from my sight.

But at the last moment he managed to clutch the bight of the hanging rope. The end of it must
have been lying quite loose on the ground above, for I saw its whole length go whizzing after
him, in the twinkling of an eye. I pressed the flask fiercely to my breast, raging with the
thought that he could yet tear it out of my hands; but by the time the strain came, his falling
body had acquired such a velocity that I didn't feel the slightest jerk when the green cord
snapped--no more than if it had been the thread of a cobweb.

I confess that tears, tears of gratitude, were running down my face. My limbs trembled. But
I was sane enough not to think of myself any more.

"Drink! Drink," I stammered, raising Seraphina's head on my shoulder, while the galloping horses
of the peons in hot pursuit passed with a thundering rumble above us. Then all was still.

Our getting out of the cave was a matter of unremitting toil, through what might have been
a year of time; the recollection is of an arduous undertaking, accomplished without the usual
incentives of men's activity. Necessity, alone, remained; the iron necessity without the glamour
of freedom of choice, of pride.

Our unsteady feet crushed, at last, the black embers of the fires scattered by the hoofs of
horses; and the plain appeared immense to our weakness, swept of shadows by the high sun, lonely
and desolate as the sea. We looked at the litter of the Lugareños' camp, rags on the trodden
grass, a couple of abandoned blankets, a musket thrown away in the panic, a dirty red sash
lying on a heap of sticks, a wooden bucket from the schooner, smashed water-gourds. One of
them remained miraculously poised on its round bottom and full to the brim, while everything
else seemed to have been overturned, torn, scattered haphazard by a furious gust of wind. A
scaffolding of poles, for drying strips of meat, had been knocked over; I found nothing there
except bits of hairy hide; but lumps of scorched flesh adhered to the white bones scattered
amongst the ashes of the camp--and I thanked God for them.

We averted our eyes from our faces in very love, and we did not speak from pity for each other.
There was no joy in our escape, no relief, no sense of freedom. The Lugareños and the peons,
the pursued and the pursuers, had disappeared from the upland without leaving as much as a
corpse in view. There were no moving things on the earth, no bird soared in the pellucid air,
not even a moving cloud on the sky. The sun declined, and the rolling expanse of the plain
frightened us, as if space had been something alive and hostile.

We walked away from that spot, as if our feet had been shod in lead; and we hugged the edge
of the cruel ravine, as one keeps by the side of a friend. We must have been grotesque, pathetic,
and lonely; like two people newly arisen from a tomb, shrinking before the strangeness of the
half-forgotten face of the world. And at the head of the ravine we stopped.

The sensation of light, vastness, and solitude, rolled upon our souls emerging from the darkness,
overwhelmingly, like a wave of the sea. We might have been an only couple sent back from the
underworld to begin another cycle of pain on a depopulated earth. It had not for us even the
fitful caress of a breeze; and the only sound of greeting was the angry babble of the brook
dashing down the stony slope at our feet.

We knelt over it to drink deeply and bathe our faces. Then looking about helplessly, I discovered
afar the belt of the sea inclosed between the undulating lines of the dunes and the straight
edge of the horizon. I pointed my arm at the white sails of the schooner creeping from under
the land, and Seraphina, resting her head on my shoulder, shuddered.

"Let us go away from here."

Our necessity pointed down the slope. We could not think of another way, and the extent of
the plain with its boundary of forests filled us with the dread of things unknown. But, by
getting down to the inlet of the sea, and following the bank of the little river, we were sure
to reach the hacienda, if only a hope could buoy our sinking hearts long enough.

From our first step downwards the hard, rattling noise of the stones accompanied our descent,
growing in volume, bewildering our minds. We had missed the indistinct beginning of the trail
on the side of the ravine, and had to follow the course of the stream. A growth of wiry bushes
sprang thickly between the large fragments of fallen rocks. On our right the shadows were beginning
to steal into the chasm. Towering on our left the great stratified wall caught at the top of
the glow of the low sun in a rich, tawny tint, right under the dark blue strip of sky, that
seemed to reflect the gloom of the ravine, the sepulchral arid gloom of deep shadows and gray
rocks, through which the shallow torrent dashed violently with glassy gleams between the sombre
masses of vegetation.

We pushed on through the bunches of tough twigs; the massive boulders closed the view on every
side; and Seraphina followed me with her hands on my shoulders. This was the best way in which
I could help her descent till the declivity became less steep; and then I went ahead, forcing
a path for her. Often we had to walk into the bed of the stream. It was icy cold. Some strange
beast, perhaps a bird, invisible somewhere, emitted from time to time a faint and lamentable
shriek. It was a wild scene, and the orifice of the cave appeared as an inaccessible black
hole some ninety feet above our heads.

Then, as I stepped round a large fragment of rock, my eyes fell on Manuel's body.

Seraphina was behind me. With a wave of my hand I arrested her. It had not occurred to me before
that, following the bottom of the ravine, we must come upon the two bodies. Castro's was lower
down, of course. I would have spared her the sight, but there was no retracing our steps. We
had no strength and no time. Manuel was lying on his back with his hands under him, and his
feet nearly in the brook.

The lower portion of the rope made a heap of cordage on the ground near him, but a great length
of it hung perpendicularly above his head. The loose end he had snatched over the edge of his
fall had whipped itself tight round the stem of a dwarf tree growing in a crevice high up the
rock; and as he fell below, the jerk must have checked his descent, and had prevented him from
alighting on his head. There was not a sign of blood anywhere upon him or on the stones. His
eyes were shut. He might have lain down to sleep there, in our way; only from the slightly
unnatural twist in the position of his arms and legs, I saw, at a glance, that all his limbs
were broken.

On the other side of the boulder Seraphina called to me, and I could not answer her, so great
was the shock I received in seeing the flutter of his slowly opening eyelids.

He still lived, then! He looked at me! It was an awful discovery to make, and the contrast
of his anxious and feverish stare with the collapsed posture of his body was full of intolerable
suggestions of fate blundering unlawfully, of death itself being conquered by pain. I looked
away only to perceive something pitiless, belittling, and cruel in the precipitous immobility
of the sheer walls, in the dark funereal green of the foliage, in the falling shadows, in the
remoteness of the sky.

The unconsciousness of matter hinted at a weird and mysterious antagonism. All the inanimate
things seemed to have conspired to throw in our way this man just enough alive to feel pain.
The faint and lamentable sounds we had heard must have come from him. He was looking at me.
It was impossible to say whether he saw anything at all. He barred our road with his remnant
of life; but, when suddenly he spoke, my heart stood still for a moment in my motionless body.

"You, too!" he droned awfully. "Behold! I have been precipitated, alive, into this hell by
another ghost. Nothing else could have overcome the greatness of my spirit."

His red shirt was torn open at the throat. His bared breast began to heave. He cried out with
pain. Ready to fly from him myself, I shouted to Seraphina to keep away.

But it was too late. Imagining I had seen some new danger in our path, she had advanced to
stand by my side.

"He is dying," I muttered in distraction. "We can do nothing."

But could we pass him by before he died? "This is terrible," said Seraphina.

My real hope had been that, after driving the Lugareños away, the peons would off-saddle near
the little river to rest themselves and their horses. This is why I had almost pitilessly hurried
Seraphina, after we had left the cave, down the steep but short descent of the ravine. I had
kept to myself my despairing conviction that we could never reach the hacienda unaided, even
if we had known the way. I had pretended confidence in ourselves, but all my trust was in the
assistance I expected to get from these men. I understood so well the slenderness of that hope
that I had not dared to mention it to her and to propose she should wait for me on the upland,
while I went down by myself on that quest. I could not bear the fear of returning unsuccessful
only to find her dead. That is, if I had the strength to return after such a disappointment.

And the idea of her, waiting for me in vain, then wandering off, perhaps to fall under a bush
and die alone, was too appalling to contemplate. That we must keep together, at all costs,
was like a point of honour, like an article of faith with us--confirmed by what we had gone
through already. It was like a law of existence, like a creed, like a defence which, once broken,
would let despair upon our heads. I am sure she would not have consented to even a temporary
separation. She had a sort of superstitious feeling that, should we be forced apart, even to
the manifest saving of our lives, we would lay ourselves open to some calamity worse than mere
death could be.

I loved her enough to share that feeling, but with the addition of a man's half-unconscious
selfishness. I needed her indomitable frailness to prop my grosser strength. I needed that
something not wholly of this world, which women's more exalted nature infuses into their passions,
into their sorrows, into their joys; as if their adventurous souls had the power to range beyond
the orbit of the earth for the gathering of their love, their hate--and their charity.

"He calls for death," she said, shrinking with horror and pity before the mutters of the miserable
man at our feet. Every moment of daylight was of the utmost importance, if we were to save
our freedom, our happiness, our very lives; and we remained rooted to the spot. For it seemed
as though, at last, he had attained the end of his enterprise. He had captured us, as if by
a very cruel stratagem.

A drowsiness would come at times over those big open eyes, like a film through which a blazing
glance would break out now and then. He had recognized us perfectly; but, for the most part,
we seemed to him to be the haunting ghosts of his inferno.

"You came from heaven," he raved feebly, rolling his straining eyes towards Seraphina. His
internal injuries must have been frightful. Perhaps he dared not shift his head--the only movement
that was in his power. "I reached up to the very angels in the inspiration of my song," he
droned, "and would be called a demon on earth. Manuel el Demonio. And now precipitated alive....
Nothing less. There is a greatness in me. Let some dew fall upon my lips."

He moaned from the very bottom of his heart. His teeth chattered.

"The blessed may not know anything of the cold and thirst of this place. A drop of dew--as
on earth you used to throw alms to the poor from your coach--for the love of God."

She sank on the stones nearer to him than I would willingly have done, brave as a woman, only,
can be before the atrocious depths of human misery. I leaned my shoulders against the boulder
and crossed my arms on my breast, as if giving up an unequal struggle. Her hair was loose,
her dress stained with ashes, torn by brambles; the darkness of the cavern seemed to linger
in her hollow cheeks, in her sunken temples.

"He is thirsty," she murmured to me.

"Yes," I said.

She tore off a strip of her dress, dipped it in the running water at her side, and approached
it, all dripping, to his lips which closed upon it with avidity. The walls of the rock looked
on implacably, but the rushing stream seemed to hurry away, as if from an accursed spot.

"Dew from heaven," he sighed out.

"You are on earth, Manuel," she said. "You are given time to repent. This is earth."

"Impossible," he muttered with difficulty.

He had forced his human fellowship upon us, this man whose ambition it had been to be called
demon on the earth. He held us by the humanity of his broken frame, by his human glance, by
his human voice. I wonder if, had I been alone, I would have passed on as reason dictated,
or have had the courage of pity and finished him off, as he demanded. Whenever he became aware
of our presence, he addressed me as "Thou, English ghost," and directed me, in a commanding
voice, to take a stone and crush his head, before I went back to my own torments. I withdrew,
at last, where he could not see me; but Seraphina never flinched in her task of moistening
his lips with the strip of cloth she dipped in the brook, time after time, with a sublime perseverance
of compassion.

It made me silent. Could I have stood there and recited the sinister detail of that man's crimes,
in the hope that she would recoil from him to pursue the road of safety? It was not his evil,
but his suffering that confronted us now. The sense of our kinship emerged out of it like a
fresh horror after we had escaped the sea, the tempest; after we had resisted untold fatigues,
hunger, thirst, despair. We were vanquished by what was in us, not in him. I could say nothing.
The light ebbed out of the ravine. The sky, like a thin blue veil stretched between the earth
and the spaces of the universe, filtered the gloom of the darkness beyond.

I thought of the invisible sun ready to set into the sea, of the peons riding away, and of
our helpless, hopeless state.

"For the love of God," he mumbled.

"Yes, for the love of God," I heard her expressionless voice repeat. And then there was only
the greedy sound of his lips sucking at the cloth, and the impatient ripple of the stream.

"Come, death," he sighed.

Yes, come, I thought, to release him and to set us free. All my prayer, now, was that we should
be granted the strength to struggle from under the malignant frown of these crags, to close
our eyes forever in the open.

And the truth is that, had we gone on, we should have found no one by the sea. The routed Lugareños
had been able to embark under cover of a fusillade from those on board the schooner. All that
would have met our despair, at the end of our toilsome march, would have been three dead pirates
lying on the sand. The main body of the peons had gone, already, up the valley of the river
with their few wounded. There would have been nothing for us to do but to stumble on and on
upon their track, till we lay down never to rise again. They did not draw rein once, between
the sea and the hacienda, sixteen miles away.

About the time when we began our descent into the ravine, two of the peons, detached from the
main body for the purpose of observing the schooner from the upland, had topped the edge of
the plain. We had then penetrated into Manuel's inferno, too deep to be seen by them. These
men spent some time lying on the grass, and watching over the dunes the course of the schooner
on the open sea. Their horses were grazing near them. The wind was light; they waited to see
the vessel far enough down the coast to make any intention of return improbable.

It was Manuel who saved our lives, defeating his own aim to the bitter end. Had not his vanity,
policy, or the necessity of his artistic soul, induced him to enter the cave; had not his cowardice
prevented him joining the Lugareños above, at the moment of the attack; had he not recoiled
violently in a superstitious fear before my apparition at the mouth of the cave--we should
have been released from our entombment, only to look once more at the sun. He paid the price
of our ransom, to the uttermost farthing, in his lingering death. Had he killed himself on
the spot, he would have taken our only slender chance with him into that nether world where
he imagined himself to have been "precipitated alive." Finding him dead, we should have gone
on. Less than ten minutes, no more than another ten paces beyond the spot, we should have been
hidden from sight in the thickets of denser growth in the lower part of the ravine. I doubt
whether we should have been able to get through; but, even so, we should have been going away
from the only help within our reach. We should have been lost.

The two vaqueros, after seeing the schooner hull down under the low, fiery sun of the west,
mounted and rode home over the plain, making for the head of the ravine, as their way lay.
And, as they cantered along the side opposite to the cave, one of them caught sight of the
length of rope dangling down the precipice. They pulled up at once.

The first I knew of their nearness was the snorting of a horse forced towards the edge of the
chasm. I saw the animal's forelegs planted tensely on the very brink, and the body of the rider
leaning over his neck to look down. And, when I wished to shout, I found I could not produce
the slightest sound.

The man, rising in his stirrups, the reins in one hand and turning up the brim of his sombrero
with the other, peered down at us over the pricked ears of his horse. I pointed over my head
at the mouth of the cave, then down at Seraphina, lifting my hands to show that I was unarmed.
I opened my lips wide. Surprise, agitation, weakness, had robbed me of every vestige of my
voice. I beckoned downwards with a desperate energy, Horse and rider remained perfectly still,
like an equestrian statue set up on the edge of a precipice. Sera-phina had never raised her head.

The man's intent scrutiny could not have mistaken me for a Lugareno. I think he gazed so long
because he was amazed to discover down there a woman on her knees, stooping over a prostrate
body, and a bareheaded man in a ragged white shirt and black breeches, reeling between the
bushes and gesticulating violently, like an excited mute. But how a rope came to hang down
from a tree, growing in a position so inaccessible that only a bird could have attached it
there struck him as the most mysterious thing of all. He pointed his finger at it interrogatively,
and I answered this inquiring sign by indicating the stony slope of the ravine. It seemed as
if he could not speak for wonder. After a while he sat back in his saddle, gave me an encouraging
wave of the hand, and wheeled his horse away from the brink.

It was as if we had been casting a spell of extinction on each other's voices. No sooner had
he disappeared than I found mine. I do not suppose it was very loud but, at my aimless screech,
Seraphina looked upwards on every side, saw no one anywhere, and remained on her knees with
her eyes, full of apprehension, fixed upon me.

"No! I am not mad, dearest," I said. "There was a man. He has seen us."

"Oh, Juan!" she faltered out, "pray with me that God may have mercy on this poor wretch and
let him die."

I said nothing. My thin, quavering scream after the peon had awakened Manuel from his delirious
dream of an inferno. The voice that issued from his shattered body was awfully measured, hollow,
and profound.

"You live!" he uttered slowly, turning his eyes full upon my face, and, as if perceiving for
the first time in me the appearance of a living man. "Ha! You English walk the earth unscathed."

A feeling of pity came to me--a pity distinct from the harrowing sensations of his miserable
end. He had been evil in the obscurity of his life, as there are plants growing harmful and
deadly in the shade, drawing poison from the dank soil on which they flourish. He was as unconscious
of his evil as they--but he had a man's right to my pity.

"I am b--roken," he stammered out.

Seraphina kept on moistening his lips.

"Repent, Manuel," she entreated fervently. "We have forgiven thee the evil done to us. Repent
of thy crimes--poor man."

"Your voice, Señorita. What? You! You yourself bringing this blessing to my lips! In your childhood
I cried 'viva' many times before your coach. And now you deign--in your voice--with your hand.
Ha! I could improvise--The star stoops to the crushed worm...."

A rising clatter of rolling stones mingled from afar with the broken moanings of his voice.
Looking over my shoulder, I saw one peon beginning the descent of the slope, and, higher up,
motionless between the heads of two horses, the head of another man--with the purple tint of
an enlarged sky beyond, reflecting the glow of an invisible sun setting into the sea.

Manuel cried out piercingly, and we shuddered. Seraphina shrank close to my side, hiding her
head on my breast. The peon staggered awkwardly down the slope, descending sideways in small
steps, embarrassed by the enormous rowels of his spurs. He had a striped serape over his shoulder,
and grasped a broad-bladed machete in his right hand. His stumbling, cautious feet sent into
the ravine a crashing sound, as though we were to be buried under a stream of stones.

"Vuestra Señoria" gasped Manuel. "I shall be silent. Pity me! Do not--do not withdraw your
hand from my extreme pain."

I felt she had to summon all her courage to look at him again. She disengaged herself, resolutely,
from my enfolding arms.

"No, no; unfortunate man," she said, in a benumbed voice. "Think of thy end."

"A crushed worm, senorita," he mumbled.

The peon, having reached the bottom of the slope, became lost to view amongst the bushes and
the great fragments of rocks below. Every sound in the ravine was hushed; and the darkening
sky seemed to cast the shadow of an everlasting night into the eyes of the dying man.

Then the peon came out, pushing through, in a great swish of parted bushes. His spurs jingled
at every step, his footfalls crunched heavily on the pebbles. He stopped, as if transfixed,
muttering his astonishment to himself, but asking no questions. He was a young man with a thin
black moustache twisted gallantly to two little points. He looked up at the sheer wall of the
precipice; he looked down at the group we formed at his feet. Suddenly, as if returning from
an abyss of pain, Manuel declared distinctly:

"I feel in me a greatness, an inspiration...."

These were his last words. The heavy dark lashes descended slowly upon the faint gleam of the
eyeballs, like a lowered curtain. The deep folds of the ravine gathered the falling dusk into
great pools of absolute blackness, at the foot of the crags.

Rising high above our littleness, that watched, fascinated, the struggle of lights and shadows
over the soul entangled in the wreck of a man's body, the rocks had a monumental indifference.
And between their great, stony faces, turning pale in the gloom, with the amazed peon as if
standing guard, machete in hand, Manuel's greatness and his inspiration passed away without
as much as an exhaled sigh. I did not even know that he had ceased to breathe, till Seraphina
rose from her knees with a low cry, and flung far away from her, nervously, the strip of cloth
upon which his parted lips had refused to close.

My arms were ready to receive her. "Ah! At last!" she cried. There was something resentful
and fierce in that cry, as though the pity of her woman's heart had been put to too cruel a test.

I, too, had been humane to that man. I had had his life on the end of my pistol, and had spared
him from an impulse that had done nothing but withhold from him the mercy of a speedy death.
This had been my pity.

But it was Seraphina's cry--this "At last," showing the stress and pain of the ordeal--that
shook my faith in my conduct. It had brought upon our heads a retribution of mental and bodily
anguish, like a criminal weakness. I was young, and my belief in the justice of life had received
a shock. If it were impossible to foretell the consequences of our acts, if there were no safety
in the motives within ourselves, what remained for our guidance?

And the inscrutable immobility of towering forms, steeped in the shadows of the chasm, appeared
pregnant with a dreadful wisdom. It seemed to me that I would never have the courage to lift
my hand, open my lips, make a step, obey a thought. A long sun-ray shot to the zenith from
the beclouded west, crossing obliquely in a faint red bar the purple band of sky above the ravine.

The young vaquero had taken off his hat before the might of death, and made a perfunctory sign
of the cross. He looked up and down the lofty wall, as if it could give him the word of that
riddle. Twice his spurs clashed softly, and, with one hand grasping the rope, he stooped low
in the twilight over the body.

"We looked for this Lugareño," he said, replacing his hat on his head carelessly. "He was a
mad singer, and I saw him once kill one of us very swiftly. They used to call him in jest,
El Demonio. Ah! But you... But you...."

His wonder overcame him. His bewildered eyes glimmered, staring at us in the deepening dusk.

"Speak, hombre," he cried. "Who are you and who is she? Whence came you? Where are you going
with this woman?..."

CHAPTER ELEVEN

Not a soul stirred in the one long street of the negro village. The yellow crescent of the
diminished moon swam low in the pearly light of the dawn; and the bamboo walls of huts, thatched
with palm leaves, glistened here and there through the great leaves of bananas. All that night
we had been moving on and on, slowly crossing clear savannas, in which nothing stirred beside
ourselves but the escort of our own shadows, or plunging through dense patches of forest of
an obscurity so impenetrable that the very forms of our rescuers became lost to us, though
we heard their low voices and felt their hands steadying us in our saddles. Then our horses
paced softly on the dust of a road, while athwart an avenue of orange trees whose foliage seemed
as black as coal, the blind walls of the hacienda shone dead white like a vision of mists.
A Brazilian aloe flowered by the side of the gate; we drooped in our saddles; and the heavy
knocks against the wooden portal seemed to go on without cause, and stop without reason, like
a sound heard in a dream. We entered Seraphina's hacienda. The high walls inclosed a square
court deep as the yard of a prison, with flat-roofed buildings all around. It rang with many
voices suddenly. Every moment the daylight increased; young négresses in loose gowns ran here
and there, cackling like chased hens, and a fat woman waddled out from under the shadow of
a veranda.

She was Seraphina's old nurse. She was scolding volubly, and suddenly she shrieked, as though
she had been stabbed. Then all was still for a long time. Sitting high on the back of my patient
mount, with my fingers twisted in the mane, I saw in a throng of woolly heads and bright garments
Seraphina's pale face. An increasing murmur of sobs and endearing names mounted up to me. Her
hair hung down, her eyes seemed immense; these people were carrying her off--and a man with
a careworn, bilious face and a straight, gray beard, neatly clipped on the edges, stood at
the head of my horse, blinking with astonishment.

The fat woman reappeared, rolling painfully along the veranda.

"Enrico! It is her lover! Oh! my treasure, my lamb, my precious child. Do you hear, Enrico?
Her lover! Oh! the poor darling of my heart."

She appeared to be giggling and weeping at the same time. The sky above the yard brightened
all at once, as if the sun had emerged with a leap from the distant waters of the Atlantic.
She waved her short arms at me over the railing, then plunged her dark fingers in the shock
of iron-gray hair gathered on the top of her head. She turned away abruptly, a yellow head-kerchief
dodged in her way, a slap resounded, a cry of pain, and a negro girl bolted into the court,
nursing her cheek in the palms of her hands. Doors slammed; other negro girls ran out of the
veranda dismayed, and took cover in various directions.

I swayed to and fro in the saddle, but faithful to the plan of our escape, I tried to make
clear my desire that these peons should be sworn to secrecy immediately. Meantime, somebody
was trying to disengage my feet from the stirrups.

"Certainly. It is as your worship wishes."

The careworn man at the head of my horse was utterly in the dark.

"Attention!" he shouted. "Catch hold, hombres. Carry the caballero."

What caballero? A rosy flush tinged a boundless expanse above my face, and then came a sudden
contraction of space and dusk. There were big earthen' ware jars ranged in a row on the floor,
and the two vaqueros stood bareheaded, stretching their arms over me towards a black crucifix
on a wall, taking their oaths, while I rested on my back. A white beard hovered about my face,
a voice said, "It is done," then called anxiously twice, "Señor! Señor!" and when I had escaped
from the dream of a cavern, I found myself with my head pillowed on a fat woman's breast, and
drinking chicken broth out of a basin held to my lips. Her large cheeks quivered, she had black
twinkling eyes and slight moustaches at the corners of her lips. But where was her white beard?
And why did she talk of an angel, as if she were Manuel?

"Seraphina!" I cried, but Castro's cloak swooped on my head like a sable wing. It was death.
I struggled. Then I died. It was delicious to die. I followed the floating shape of my love
beyond the worlds of the universe. We soared together above pain, strife, cruelty, and pity.
We had left death behind us and everything of life but our love, which threw a radiant halo
around two flames which were ourselves--and immortality inclosed us in a great and soothing
darkness.

Nothing stirred in it. We drifted no longer. We hung in it quite still--and the empty husk
of my body watched our two flames side by side, mingling their light in an infinite loneliness.
There were two candles burning low on a little black table near my head. Enrico, with his white
beard and zealous eyes, was bending over my couch, while a chair, on high runners, rocked empty
behind him. I stared.

"Señor, the night is far advanced," he said soothingly, "and Dolores, my wife, watches over
Dona Seraphina's slumbers, on the other side of this wall."

I had been dead to the world for nearly twenty hours, and the awakening resembled a new birth,
for I felt as weak and helpless as an infant.

It is extraordinary how quickly we regained so much of our strength; but I suppose people recover
sooner from the effects of privation than from the weakness of disease. Keeping pace with the
return of our bodily vigour, the anxieties of mind returned, augmented tenfold by all the weight
of our sinister experience. And yet, what worse could happen to us in the future? What other
terror could it hold? We had come back from the very confines of destruction. But Seraphina,
reclining back in an armchair, very still, with her eyes fixed on the high white wall facing
the veranda across the court, would murmur the word "Separation!"

The possibility of our lives being forced apart was terrible to her affection, and intolerable
to her pride. She had made her choice, and the feeling she had surrendered herself to so openly
must have had a supreme potency. She had disregarded for it all the traditions of silence and
reserve. She had looked at me fondly through the very tears of her grief; she had followed
me--leaving her dead unburied and her prayers unsaid. What more could she have done to proclaim
her love to the world? Could she, after that, allow anything short of death to thwart her fidelity?
Never! And if she were to discover that I could, after all, find it in my heart to support
an existence in which she had no share, then, indeed, it would be more than enough to make
her die of shame.

"Ah, dearest!" I said, "you shall never die of shame."

We were different, but we had read each other's natures by a fierce light. I understood the
point of honour in her constancy, and she never doubted the scruples of my true devotion, which
had brought so many dangers on her head. We were flying not to save our lives, but to preserve
inviolate our truth to each other and to ourselves. And if our sentiments appear exaggerated,
violent, and overstrained, I must point back to their origin. Our love had not grown like a
delicate flower, cherished in tempered sunshine. It had never known the atmosphere of tenderness;
our souls had not been awakened to each other by a gentle whisper, but as if by the blast of
a trumpet. It had called us to a life whose enemy was not death, but separation.

The enemy sat at the gate of our shelter, as death sits at the gate of life. These high walls
could not protect us, nor the tearful mumble of the old woman's prayers, nor yet the careworn
fidelity of Enrico. The couple hung about us, quivering with emotion. They peeped round the
corners of the veranda, and only rarely ventured to come out openly. The silent Galician stroked
his clipped beard; the obese woman kept on crossing herself with loud, resigned sighs. She
would waddle up, wiping her eyes, to stroke Seraphina's head and murmur endearing names. They
waited on us hand and foot, and would stand close together, ready for the slightest sign, in
a rapt contemplation. Now and then she would nudge her husband's ribs with her thick elbow
and murmur, "Her lover."

She was happy when Seraphina let her sit at her feet, and hold her hand. She would pat it with
gentle taps, squatting shapelessly on a low stool.

"Why go so far from thy old nurse, darling of my heart? Ah! love is love, and we have only
one life to live, but this England is very far--very far away."

She nodded her big iron-gray head slowly; and to our longing England appeared very distant,
too, a fortunate isle across the seas, an abode of peace, a sanctuary of love.

There was no plan open to us but the one laid down by Sebright. The secrecy of our sojourn
at the hacienda had, in a measure, failed, though there was no reason to suppose the two peons
had broken their oath. Our arrival at dawn had been unobserved, as far as we knew, and the
domestic slaves, mostly girls, had been kept from all communication with the field hands outside.
All these square leagues of the estate were very much out of the world, and this isolation
had not been broken upon by any of O'Brien's agents coming out to spy. It seemed to be the
only part of Seraphina's great possessions that remained absolutely her own.

Not a whisper of any sort of news reached us in our hiding-place till the fourth evening, when
one of the vaqueros reported to Enrico that, riding on the inland boundary, he had fallen in
with a company of infantry encamped on the edge of a little wood. Troops were being moved upon
Rio Medio. He brought a note from the officer in command of that party. It contained nothing
but a requisition for twenty head of cattle. The same night we left the hacienda.

It was a starry darkness. Behind us the soft wailing of the old woman at the gate died out:

"So far! So very far!"

We left the long street of the slave village on the left, and walked down the gentle slope
of the open glade towards the little river. Seraphina's hair was concealed in the crown of
a wide sombrero and, wrapped up in a serape, she looked so much like a cloaked vaquero that
one missed the jingle of spurs out of her walk. Enrico had fitted me out in his own clothes
from top to toe. He carried a lanthorn, and we followed the circle of light that swayed and
trembled upon the short grass. There was no one else with us, the crew of the drogher being
already on board to await our coming.

Her mast appeared above the roof of some low sheds grouped about a short wooden jetty. Enrico
raised the lamp high to light us, as we stepped on board.

Not a word was spoken; the five negroes of the crew (Enrico answered for their fidelity) moved
about noiselessly, almost invisible. Blocks rattled feebly aloft.

"Enrico," said Seraphina, "do not forget to put a stone cross over poor Castro's grave."

"No, Señorita. May you know years of felicity. We would all have laid down our lives for you.
Remember that, and do not forget the living. Your childhood has been the consolation of the
poor woman there for the loss of our little one, your foster brother, who died. We have given
to you much of our affection for him who was denied to our old age."

He stepped back from the rail. "Go with God," he said.

The faint air filled the sail, and the outlines of wharf and roof fell back into the sombre
background of the land, but the lanthorn in Enrico's hand glimmered motionless at the end of
the jetty, till a bend of the stream hid it from our sight.

We glided smoothly between the banks. Now and then a stretch of osiers and cane brakes rustled
alongside in the darkness. All was strange; the contours of the land melted before our advance.
The earth was made of shifting shadows, and only the stars remained in unchanged groups of
glitter on the black sky. We floated across the land-locked basin, and under the low headland
we had steered for from the sea in the storm. All this, seen only once under streams of lightning,
was unrecognizable to us, and seemed plunged in deep slumber. But the fresh feel of the sea
air, and the freedom of earth and sky wedded on the sea horizon, returned to us like old friends,
the companions of that time when we communed in words and silences on board the Lion, that
fragment of England found in a mist, boarded in battle, with its absurd and warmhearted protection.
On our other hand, the rampart of white dunes intruded the line of a ghostly shore between
the depth of the sea and the profundity of the sky; and when the faint breeze failed for a
moment, the negro crew troubled the silence with the heavy splashes of their sweeps falling
in slow and solemn cadence. The rudder creaked gently; the black in command was old and of
spare build, resembling Cesar, the major-domo, without the splendour of maroon velvet and gold
lace. He was a very good sailor, I believe, taciturn and intelligent. He had seen the Lion
frequently on his trips to Havana, and would recognize her, he assured me, amongst a whole
host of shipping. When I had explained what was expected of him, according to Sebright's programme,
a bizarre grimace of a smile disturbed the bony, mournful cast of his African face.

"Fall on board by accident, Señor. Si! Now, by St. Jago of Compostella, the patron cf our hacienda,
you shall see this old Pedro--who has been set to sail the craft ever since she was built--as
overcome by an accident as a little rascal of a boy that has stolen a boat."

After this wordy declaration he never spoke to us again. He gave his short orders in low undertones,
and the others, four stalwart blacks, in the prime of life, executed them in silence. Another
night brought the unchanging stars to look at us in their multitudes, till the dawn put them
out just as we opened the entrance of the harbour. The daylight discovered the arid colouring
of the coast, a castle on a sandy hill, and a few small boats with ragged sails making for
the land. A brigantine, that seemed to have carried the breeze with her right in, threw up
the Stars and Stripes radiantly to the rising sun, before rounding the point. The sound of
bells came out to sea, and met us while we crept slowly on, abreast of the battery at the water's
edge.

"A feast-day in the city," said the old negro at the helm. "And here is an English ship of war."

The sun-rays struck from afar full at her belted side; the water was like glass along the shore.
She swam into the very shade of the hill, before she wore round, with great deliberation, in
an ample sweep of her headgear through a complete half-circle. She came to the wind on the
other tack under her short canvas; her lower deck ports were closed, the hammock cloths like
a ridge of unmelted snow lying along her rail.

It was evident she was kept standing off and on outside the harbour, as an armed man may pace
to and fro before a gate. With the hum of six hundred wakeful lives in her flanks, the tap-tapping
of a drum, and the shrill modulations of the boatswain's calls piping some order along her
decks, she floated majestically across our path. But the only living being we saw was the red-coated
marine on sentry by the lifebuoys, looking down at us over the taffrail. We passed so close
to her that I could distinguish the whites of his eyes, and the tompions in the muzzles of
her stern-chasers protruding out of the ports belonging to the admiral's quarters.

I knew her. She was Rowley's flagship. She had thrown the shadow of her sails upon the end
of my first sea journey. She was the man-of-war going out for a cruise on that day when Carlos,
Tomas, and myself arrived in Jamaica in the old Thames. And there she was meeting me again,
after two years, before Havana--the might of the fortunate isle to which we turned our eyes,
part and parcel of my inheritance, formidable with the courage of my countrymen, humming with
my native speech--and as foreign to my purposes as if I had forfeited forever my birthright
in her protection. I had drifted into a sort of outlaw. You may not break the king's peace
and be made welcome on board a king's ship. You may not hope to make use of a king's ship for
the purposes of an elopement. There was no room on board that seventy-four for our romance.

As it was, I very nearly hailed her. What would become of us if the Lion had already left Havana?
I thought. But no. To hail her meant separation--the only forbidden thing to those who, in
the strength of youth and love, are permitted to defy the world together.

I did not hail; and the marine dwindled to a red speck upon the noble hull forging away from
us on the offshore tack. The brazen clangour of bells seemed to struggle with the sharp puff
of the breeze that sent us in.

The shipping in harbour was covered with bunting in honour of the feast-day; for the same reason,
there was not a sign of the usual crowd of small boats that give animation to the waters of
a port; the middle of the harbour was strangely empty. A solitary bumboat canoe, with a yellow
bunch of bananas in the bow, and an old negro woman dipping a languid paddle at the stern,
were all that met my eye. Presently, however, a six-oared custom-house galley darted out from
the tier of ships, pulling for the American brigantine. I noticed in her, beside the ordinary
port officials, several soldiers, and a person astonishingly like the alguazil of the illustrations
to Spanish romances. One of the uniformed sitters waved his hand at us, recognizing an estate
drogher, and shouted some directions, of which we only caught the words:

"Steps--examination--to-morrow."

Our steersman took off his old hat humbly, to hail back, "Muy bien, Señor."

I breathed freely, for they gave us no more of their attention. Soldiers, alguazil, and custom-house
officers were swarming aboard the American, as if bent on ransacking her from stem to stern
in the shortest possible time, so as not to be late for the procession.

The absence of movement in the harbour, the festive and idle appearance of the ships, with
the flutter of innumerable flags on the forest of masts, and the great uproar of church bells
in the air, made an impressive greeting for our eyes and ears. And the deserted aspect of the
harbour front of the city was very striking, too. The feast had swept the quays of people so
completely that the tiny pair of sentries at the foot of a tall yellow building caught the
eye from afar. Sera-phina crouched on a coil of rope under the bulwark; old Pedro, at the tiller,
peered about from under his hand, and I, trying to expose myself to view as little as possible,
helped him to look for the Lion. There she is. Yes! No! There she was. A crushing load fell
off my chest. We had made her out together, old Pedro and I.

And then the last part of Sebright's plan had to be carried out at once. The foresheet of the
drogher appeared to part, our mainsail shook, and before I could gasp twice, we had drifted
stern foremost into the Lion's mizzen chains with a crash that brought a genuine expression
of concern to the old negro's face. He had managed the whole thing with a most convincing skill,
and without even once glancing at the ship. We had done our part, but the people of the Lion
seemed to fail in theirs unaccountably. Of all the faces that crowded her rail at the shock,
not one appeared with a glimmer of intelligence. All the cargo ports were down. Their surprise
and their swearing appeared to me alarmingly unaffected; with a most imbecile alacrity they
exerted themselves, with small spars and boathooks, to push the drogher off. Nobody seemed
to recognize me; Seraphina might have been a peon sitting on deck, cloaked from neck to heels
and under a sombrero. I dared not shout to them in English, for fear of being heard on board
the other ships around. At last Sebright himself appeared on the poop.

He gave one look over the side.

"What the devil..." he began. Was he blind, too?

Suddenly I saw him throw up his arms above his head. He vanished. A port came open with a jerk
at the last moment. I lifted Seraphina up: two hands caught hold of her, and, in my great hurry
to scramble up after her, I barked my shins cruelly. The port fell; the drogher went on bumping
alongside, completely disregarded. Seraphina dropped the cloak at her feet and flung off her hat.

"Good-morning, amigos," she said gravely.

A hissed "Damn you fools--keep quiet!" from Sebright, stifled the cheer in all those bronzed
throats. Only a thin little poor "hooray" quavered along the deck. The timid steward had not
been able to overcome his enthusiasm. He slapped his head in despair, and rushed away to bury
himself in his pantry.

"Turned up, by heavens!... Go in.... Good God!... Bucketfuls of tears...." stammered Sebright,
pushing us into the cuddy. "Go in! Go in at once!"

Mrs. Williams rose from behind the table wide-eyed, clasping her hands, and stumbled twice
as she ran to us.

"What have you done to that child, Mr. Kemp!" she cried insanely at me. "Oh, my dear, my dear!
You look like your own ghost."

Sebright, burning with impatience, pulled me away. The cabin door fell upon the two women,
locked in a hug, and, stepping into his stateroom, we could do nothing at first but slap each
other on the back and ejaculate the most unmeaning exclamations, like a couple of jocular idiots.
But when, in the expansion of my heart, I tried to banter him about not keeping his word to
look out for us, he bent double in trying to restrain his hilarity, slapped his thighs, and
grew red in the face.

The excellent joke was that, for the past six days, we had been supposed to be dead--drowned;
at least Dona Seraphina had been provided with that sort of death in her own name; I was drowned,
too, but in the disguise of a piratical young English nobleman.

"There's nothing too bad for them to believe of us," he commented, and guffawed in his joy
at seeing me unscathed. "Dead! Drowned! Ha! Ha! Good, wasn't it?"

Mrs. Williams--he said--had been weeping her eyes out over our desolate end; and even the skipper
had sulked with his food for a day or two.

"Ha! Ha! Drowned! Excellent!" He shook me by the shoulders, looking me straight in the eyes--and
the bizarre, nervous hilarity of my reception, so unlike his scornful attitude, proved that
he, too, had believed the rumour. Indeed, nothing could have been more natural, considering
my inexperience in handling boats and the fury of the norther. It had sent the Lion staggering
into Havana in less than twenty hours after we had parted from her on the coast.

Suddenly a change came over him. He pushed me on to the settee.

"Speak! Talk! What has happened? Where have you been all this time? Man, you look ten years older."

"Ten years. Is that all?" I said.

And after he had heard the whole story of our passages he appeared greatly sobered.

"Wonderful! Wonderful!" he muttered, lost in deep thought, till I reminded him it was his turn,
now, to speak.

"You are the talk of the town," he said, recovering his elasticity of spirit as he went on.
The death of Don Balthasar had been the first great sensation of Havana, but it seemed that
O'Brien had kept that news to himself, till he heard by an overland messenger that Sera-phina
and I had escaped from Casa Riego.

Then he gave it to the world; he let it be inferred that he had the news of both events together.
The story, as sworn to by various suborned rascals, and put out by his creatures, ran that
an English desperado, arriving in Rio Medio with some Mexicans in a schooner, had incited the
rabble of the place to attack the Casa Riego. Don Balthasar had been shot while defending his
house at the head of his negroes; and Don Bal-thasar's daughter had been carried off by the
English pirate.

The amazement and sensation were extreme. Several of the first families went into mourning.
A service for the repose of Don Balthasar's soul was sung in the Cathedral. Captain Williams
went there out of curiosity, and returned full of the magnificence of the sight; nave draped
in black, an enormous catafalque, with silver angels, more than life-size, kneeling at the
four corners with joined hands, an amazing multitude of lights. A demonstration of unbounded
grief from the Judge of the Marine Court had startled the distinguished congregation. In his
place amongst the body of higher magistrature, Don Patricio O'Brien burst into an uncontrollable
paroxysm of sobs, and had to be assisted out of the church.

It was almost incredible, but I could well believe it. With the thunderous strains of Dies
Irae rolling over his bowed head, amongst all these symbols and trappings of woe, he must have
seen, in the black anguish of his baffled passion, the true image of death itself, and tasted
all the profound deception of life. Who could tell how much secret rage, jealousy, regret,
and despair had gone to that outburst of grief, whose truth had fluttered a distinguished company
of mourners, and had nearly interrupted their official supplications for the repose of that
old man, who had been dead to the world for so many years? I believe that, on that very day,
just as he was going to the service, O'Brien had received the news of our supposed death by
drowning. The music, the voices, the lights of the grave, the pomp of mourning, awe, and supplication
crying for mercy upon the dead, had been too much for him. He had presumed too much upon his
fortitude. He wept aloud for his love lost, for his vengeance defeated, for the dreams gone
out of his life, for the inaccessible consummation of his desire.

"And, you know, with all these affairs, he feels himself wobbling in his socket," Sebright
began again, after musing for a while. Indeed, the last events in Rio Medio were endangering
his position. He could no more present his reports upon the state of the province with incidental
reflections upon the bad faith of the English Government (who encouraged the rebels against
the Catholic king), the arrogance of the English admiral, and concluding with the loyalty and
honesty of the Rio Medio population, "who themselves suffered many acts of molestation from
the Mexican pirates." The most famous of these papers, printed at that time in the official
Gazette, had recommended that the loyal town should be given a battery of thirty-six pounders
for purposes of self-defence. They had been given them just in time to be turned on Rowley's
boats; it is known with what deadly effect. O'Brien's report after that event had made it clear
that that virtuous population of the bay, exasperated by the intrusions of the Mexicanos upon
their peaceful state, and abhorring in their souls the rebellion trying to lift its envenomed
head, etc., etc.,... heroically manned the battery to defend their town from the boats which
they took to be these very pirates the British admiral was in search of. He pleaded for them
the uncertain light of the early morning, the ardour of citizens, valorous, but naturally inexperienced
in matters of war, and the impossibility to suppose that the admiral of a friendly power would
dispatch an armed force to land on these shores. I have read these things with my own eyes;
there were old files of the Gazette on board, and Sebright, who had been reading up his O'Brien,
pointed them out to me with his finger, muttering:

"Here--look there. Pretty, ain't it?"

But that was all over. The bubble had burst. It was reported in town that the private audience
the Juez had lately from the Captain-General was of a most stormy description. They say old
Marshal What-d'ye-call-'um ended by flinging his last report in his face, and asking him how
dared he work his lawyer's tricks upon an old soldier. Good old fighting cock. But stupid.
All these old soldiers were stupid, Sebright declared. Old admirals, too. However, the land
troops had arrived in Rio Medio by this time; the Tornado frigate, too, no doubt, having sailed
four days ago, with orders to burn the villages to the ground; and the good Lugareños must
be catching colds trying to hide from the carabineers in the deep, damp woods.

Our admiral was awaiting the issue of that expedition. Returning home under a cloud, Rowley
wanted to take with him the assurance of the pirate nest being destroyed at last, as a sort
of diplomatic feather in his cap.

"He may think," Sebright commented, "that it's his sailorly bluff that has done it, but, as
far as I can see, nobody but you yourself, Kemp, had anything to do with bringing it about.
Funny, is it not? Old Rowley keeps his ship dodging outside because it's cooler at sea than
stewing in this harbour, but he sends in a boat for news every morning. What he is most anxious
for is to get the notorious Nichols into his hands; take him home for a hanging. It seems clear
to me that they are humbugging him ashore. Nichols! Where's Nichols? There are people here
who say that Nichols has had free board and lodging in Havana jail for the last six months.
Others swear that it is Nichols who has killed the old gentleman, run off with Dona Seraphina,
and got drowned. Nichols! Who's Nichols? On that showing you are Nichols. Anybody may be Nichols.
Who has ever seen him outside Rio Medio? I used to believe in him at one time, but, upon my
word I begin to doubt whether there ever was such a man."

"But the man existed, at any rate," I said. "I knew him--I've talked with him. He came out
second mate in the same ship with me--in the old Thames. Ramon took charge of him in Kingston,
and that's the last positive thing I can swear to, of him. But that he was in Rio Medio for
two years, and vanished from there almost directly after that unlucky boat affair, I am absolutely
certain."

"Well, I suppose O'Brien knows where to lay his hand on him. But no matter where the fellow
is, in jail or out of it, the admiral will never get hold of him. If they had him they could
not think of giving him up. He knows too much of the game; and remember that O'Brien, if he
wobbles in the socket, is by no means down yet. A man like that doesn't get knocked over like
a ninepin. You may be sure he has twenty skeletons put away in good places, that he will haul
out one by one, rather than let himself be squashed. He's not going to give in. A few days
ago, a priest--your priest, you know--turned up here on foot from Rio Medio, and went about
wringing his hands, declaring that he knew all the truth, and meant to make a noise about it,
too. O'Brien made short work of him, though; got the archbishop to send him into retreat, as
they call it, to a Franciscan convent a hundred miles from here. These things are whispered
about all along the gutters of this place."

I imagined the poor Father Antonio, with his simple resignation, mourning for us in his forced
retreat, brokenhearted, and murmuring, "Inscrutable, inscrutable." I should have liked to see
the old man.

"I tell you the town is fairly buzzing with the atrocities of this business," Sebright went
on. "It's the thing for fashionable people to go and see what I may call the relics of the
crime. They are on show in the waiting-hall of the Palace of Justice. Why, I went there myself.
You go through a swing door into a big place that, for cheerfulness, is no better than a monster
coal cellar, and there you behold, laid out on a little black table, Mrs. Williams' woollen
shawl, your Señorita's tortoise-shell comb, that had got entangled in it somehow, and my old
cap that I lent you--you remember. I assure you, it gave me the horrors to see the confounded
things spread out there in that dim religious light. Dash me, if I didn't go queer all over.
And all the time swell carriages stopping before the portico, dressed-up women walking up in
pairs and threes, sighing before the missus' shawl, turning up their eyes, 'Ah! Pobrecita!
Pobrecita! But what a strange wrap for her to have. It is very coarse. Perished in the flower
of her youth. Incredible! Oh, the savage, cruel Englishman.' The funniest thing in the world."

But if this was so, Manuel's Lugareños were now in Havana. Sebright pointed out that, as things
stood, it was the safest place for them, under the wing of their patron. Sebright had recognized
the schooner at once. She came in very early one morning, and hauled herself unostentatiously
out of sight amongst a ruck of small craft moored in the lower part of the harbour. He took
the first opportunity to ask one of the guards on the quay what was that pretty vessel over
there, just to hear what the man would say. He was assured that she was a Porto Rico trader
of no consequence, well known in the port.

"Never mind the scoundrels; they can do nothing more to you."

Sebright dismissed the Lugareños out of my life. The unfavourable circumstance for us was that
the captain had gone ashore. The ship was ready for sea; absolutely cleared; papers on board;
could go in an hour if it came to that; but, at any rate, next morning at daylight, before
O'Brien could get wind of the Riego drogher arriving. Every movement in port was reported to
the Juez; but this was a feast, and he would not hear of it probably till next day. Even fiestas
had their uses sometimes. In his anxiety to discover Seraphina, O'Brien had played such pranks
amongst the foreign shipping (after the Lion had been drawn blank) that the whole consular
body had addressed a joint protest to the Governor, and the Juez had been told to moderate
his efforts. No ship was to be visited more than once. Still I had seen, myself, soldiers going
in a boat to board the American brigantine: a garlic-eating crew, poisoning the cabins with
their breath, and poking their noses everywhere. Of course, since our supposed drowning, there
had been a lull; but the least thing might start him off again. He was reputed to be almost
out of his mind with sorrow, arising from his great attachment for the family. He walked about
as if distracted, suffered from insomnia, and had not been fit to preside in his court for
over a week, now.

"But don't you expect Williams back on board directly?"

He shook his head.

"No. Not even to-night. He told the missus he was going to spend the day out of town with his
consignee, but he tipped me the wink. This evening he will send a note that the consignee detains
him for the night, because the letters are not ready, and I'll have to go to her and lie, the
best I am able, that it's quite the usual thing. Damn!"

I was appalled. This was too bad. And, as I raged against the dissolute habits of the man,
Sebright entreated me to moderate my voice so as not to be heard in the cabin. Did I expect
the man to change his skin? He had been doing the gay bachelor about here all his life; had
never suspected he was doing anything particularly scandalous either.

"He married the old girl out of chivalry,--the romantic fat beggar,--and never realized what
it meant till she came out with him," Sebright went on whispering to me. "He loves and honours
her more than you may think. That is so, for all your shrugs, Mr. Kemp. It is not so easy to
break the old connection as you imagine. Why, the other evening, two of his dissolute habits
(as you call them) came off, with mantillas over their heads, in a boat, in company with a
male scallawag of sorts, pinching a mandolin, and serenaded the ship for him. We were all in
the cabin after supper, and poor Mrs. Williams, with her eyes still red from weeping over you
people, says to us, 'How sweet and melancholy that sounds,' says she. You should have seen
the skipper rolling his eyes at me. The perspiration of fright was simply pouring down his
face. I rushed on deck, and it took me all my Spanish to stop them from coming aboard. I had
to swear by all the saints, and the honour of a caballero, that there was a wife. They went
away laughing at last. They did not want to make trouble. They simply had not believed the
tale before. Thought it was some dodge of his. I could hear their peals of laughter all the
way up the harbour. These are the difficulties we have. The old girl must be protected from
that sort of eye-opener, if I've to forswear my soul. I've been keeping guard over her ever
since we arrived here--besides looking out for you people, as long as there was any hope."

I was greatly cast down. Perhaps Williams was justified in making concessions to the associates
of his former jolly existence to save some outrage to the feelings of his consort. I did not
want to criticise his motives--but what about getting him back on board at once?

Sebright was biting his lip. The necessity was pressing, he admitted.

He had an idea where to find him. But for himself he could not go--that was evident. Neither
would I wish him to leave the ship, even for a moment, now Seraphina was on board. An unexpected
visit from some zealous police understrapper, a momentary want of presence of mind on the part
of the timid steward; there was enough to bring about our undoing. Moreover, as he had said,
he must remain on guard over the missus. But whom to send? There was not a single boatman about.
The harbour was a desert of water and dressed ships; but even the crews of most of them were
ashore--"on a regular spree of praying," as he expressed it vexedly. As to our own crew, not
one of them knew anything more of Spanish than a few terms of abuse, perhaps. Their hearts
were in the right place, but as to their wits, he wouldn't trust a single one of them by himself--no,
not an inch away from the ship. How could he send one of them ashore with the wineshops yawning
wide on all sides, and not enough lingo to ask for the way. Sure to get drunk, to get lost,
to get into trouble in some way, and in the end get picked up by the police. The slightest
hitch of that sort would call attention upon the ship--and with O'Brien to draw inferences....
He rubbed his head.

"I suppose I'll have to go," he grunted. "But I am known; I may be followed. They may wonder
why I rush to fetch my skipper. And yet I feel this is the time. The very time. Between now
and four o'clock to-morrow morning we have an almost absolute certitude of getting away with
you two. This is our chance and your chance."

He was lost in perplexity. Then, as if inspired, I cried:

"I will go!"

"The devil!" he said, amazed. "Would you?"

I rushed at him with arguments. No one would know me. My clothes were all right and clean enough
for a feast-day. I could slip through the crowds un-perceived. The principal thing was to get
Seraphina out of O'Brien's reach. At the worst, I could always find means to get away from
Cuba by myself. There was Mrs. Williams to look after her, and if I missed Williams by some
mischance, and failed to make my way back to the ship in time, I charged them solemnly not
to wait, but sail away at the earliest possible moment.

I said much more than this. I was eloquent. I became as if suddenly intoxicated by the nearness
of freedom and safety. The thought of being at sea with her in a few hours away from all trouble
of mind or heart, made my head swim. It seemed to me I should go mad if I was not allowed to
go. My limbs tingled with eagerness. I stuttered with excitement.

"Well--after all!" Sebright mumbled.

"I must go in and tell her," I said.

"No. Don't do that," said that wise young man. "Have you made up your mind?"

"Yes, I have," I answered. "But she's reasonable."

"Still," he argued, "the old girl is sure to say that nothing of the kind is necessary. The
captain told her that he was coming back for tea. What could we say to that? We can't explain
the true state of the case, and if you persist in going, it will look like pig-headed folly
on your part."

He threw his writing-desk open for me.

"Write to her. Write down your arguments--what you have been telling me. It's a fact that the
door stands open for a few hours. As to the rest," he pursued, with a weary sigh, "I'll do
the lying to pass it off with Mrs. Williams."

Thus it came about that, with only two flimsy bulkheads between us, I wrote my first letter
to Seraphina, while Sebright went on deck to make arrangements to send me ashore. He was some
time away; long enough for me to pour out on paper the exultation of my thought, the confidence
of my hope, my desire to have her safe at last with me upon the blue sea. One must seize a
propitious moment lest it should slip away and never return, I wrote. I begged her to believe
I was acting for the best, and only from my great love, that could not support the thought
of her being so near O'Brien, the arch-enemy of our union. There was no separation on the sea.

Sebright came in brusquely.

"Come along."

The American brigantine was berthed by then, close astern of the Lion, and Sebright had the
idea of asking her mate to let his boat (it was in the water) put ashore a visitor he had on
board. His own were hoisted, he explained, and there were no boatmen plying for hire.

His request was granted. I was pulled ashore by two American sailors, who never said a word
to each other, and evidently took me for a Spaniard.

It was an excellent idea. By borrowing the Yankee's boat, the track of my connection with the
Lion was covered. The silent seamen landed me, as asked by Sebright, near the battery on the
sand, quite clear of the city.

I thanked them in Spanish, and, traversing a piece of open ground, made a wide circle to enter
the town from the land side, to still further cover my tracks. I passed through a sort of squalid
suburb of huts, hovels, and negro shanties. I met very few people, and these mostly old women,
looking after the swarms of children of all colours and sizes, playing in the dust. Many curs
sunned themselves among heaps of rubbish, and took not the trouble to growl at me. Then I came
out upon a highroad, and turned my face towards the city lying under a crude sunshine, and
in a ring of metallic vibrations.

Better houses with plastered fronts washed yellow or blue, and even pinky red, alternated with
tumble-down wooden structures. A crenellated squat gateway faced me with a carved shield of
stone above the open gloom. A young smooth-faced mulatto, in some sort of dirty uniform, but
wearing new straw slippers with blue silk rosettes over his naked feet, lounged cross-legged
at the door of a kind of guardroom. He held a big cigar tilted up between his teeth, and ogled
me, like a woman, out of the corners of his languishing eyes. He said not a word.

Fortunately my face had tanned to a dark hue. Enrico's clothes would not attract attention
to me, of course. The light colour of my hair was concealed by the handkerchief bound under
my hat; my footsteps echoed loudly under the vault, and I penetrated into the heart of the city.

And directly, it seemed to me, I had stepped back three hundred years. I had never seen anything
so old; this was the abandoned inheritance of an adventurous race, that seemed to have thrown
all its might, all its vigour, and all its enthusiasm into one supreme effort of valour and
greed. I had read the history of the Spanish Conquest; and, looking at these great walls of
stone, I felt my heart moved by the same wonder, and by the same sadness. With what a fury
of heroism and faith had this whole people flung itself upon the opulent mystery of the New
World. Never had a nation clasped closer to its heart its dream of greatness, of glory, and
of romance. There had been a moment in its destiny, when it could believe that Heaven itself
smiled upon its massacres. I walked slowly, awed by the solitude. They had conquered and were
no more, and these wrought stones remained to testify gloomily to the death of their success.
Heavy houses, immense walls, pointed arches of the doorways, cages of iron bars projecting
balcony wise around each square window. And not a soul in sight, not a head looking out from
these dwellings, these houses of men, these ancient abodes of hate, of base rivalries, of avarice,
of ambitions--these old nests of love, these witnesses of a great romance now past and gone
below the horizon. They seemed to return mournfully my wondering glances; they seemed to look
at me and say, "What do you here? We have seen other men, heard other footsteps!" The peace
of the cloister brooded over these aged blocks of masonry, stained with the green trails of
mosses, infiltrated with shadows.

At times the belfry of a church would volley a tremendous crash of bronze into the narrow streets;
and between whiles I could hear the faint echoes of far-off chanting, the brassy distant gasps
of trombones. A woman in black whisked round a corner, hurrying towards the route of the procession.
I took the same direction. From a wine-shop, yawning like a dirty cavern in the basement of
a palatial old building, issued suddenly a brawny ruffian in rags, wiping his thick beard with
the back of a hairy paw. He lurched a little, and began to walk before me hastily. I noticed
the glitter of a gold earring in the lobe of his huge ear. His cloak was frayed at the bottom
into a perfect fringe and, as he flung it about, he showed a good deal of naked skin under
it. His calves were bandaged crosswise; his peaked hat seemed to have been trodden upon in
filth before he had put it on his head. Suddenly I stopped short. A Lugareño!

We were then in the empty part of a narrow street, whose lower end was packed, close with a
crowd viewing the procession which was filing slowly past, along the wide thoroughfare. It
was too late for me to go back. Moreover, the ruffian paid no attention to me. It was best
to go on. The people, packed between the houses with their backs to us, blocked our way. I
had to wait.

He took his position near me in the rear of the last rank of the crowd. He must have been inclined
to repentance in his cups, because he began to mumble and beat his breast. Other people in
the crowd were also beating their breasts. In front of me I had the façade of a building which,
according to the little plan of my route Sebright drew for me, was the Palace of Justice. It
had a peristyle of ugly columns at the top of a flight of steps. A cordon of infantry kept
the roadway clear. The singing went on without interruption; and I saw tall saints of wood,
gilt and painted red and blue, pass, borne shoulder-high, swaying and pitching above the heads
of the crowd like the masts of boats in a seaway. Crucifixes were carried, flashing in the
sun; an enormous Madonna, which must have weighed half a ton, tottered across my line of sight,
dressed up in gold brocade and with a wreath of paper roses on her head. A military band sent
a hurricane blast of brasses as it went by. Then all was still at once, except the silvery
tinkling of hand-bells. The people before me fell on their knees together and left me standing
up alone.

As a matter of fact I had been caught gaping at the ceremony quite new to me, and had not expected
a move of that sort. The ruffian kneeling within a foot of me thumped and bellowed in an ecstasy
of piety. As to me, I own I stood there looking with impatience at a passing canopy that seemed
all gold, with three priests in gorgeous capes walking slowly under it, and I absolutely forgot
to take off my hat. The bearded ruffian looked up from the midst of his penitential exercises,
and before I realized I was outraging his or anybody else's feelings, leaped up with a yell,
"Thou sacrilegious infidel," and sent my hat flying off my head.

Just then the band crashed again, the bells pealed out, and no one heard his shout. With one
blow of my fist I sent him staggering backwards. The procession had passed; people were rising
from their knees and pouring out of the narrow street. Swearing, he fumbled under his cloak;
I watched him narrowly; but in a moment he sprang away and lost himself amongst the moving
crowd. I picked up my hat.

For a time I stood very uneasy, and then retreated under a doorway. Nothing happened, and I
was anxious to get on. It was possible to cross the wide street now. That Lugareño did not
know me. He was a Lugareño, though. No doubt about it. I would make a dash now; but first I
stole a hasty glance at the plan of my route which I kept in the hollow of my palm.

"Señor," said a voice. I lifted my head.

An elderly man in black, with a white moustache and imperial, stood before me. The ruffian
was stalking up to his side, and four soldiers with an officer were coming behind. I took in
the whole disaster at a glance.

"The Señor is no doubt a foreigner--perhaps an Englishman," said the official in black. He
had a lace collar, a chain on his neck, velvet breeches, a well-turned leg in black stockings.
His voice was soft.

I was so disconcerted that I nodded at him.

"The Señor is young and inconsiderate. Religious feelings ought to be respected." The official
in black was addressing me in sad and measured tones. "This good Catholic," he continued, eying
the bearded ruffian dubiously, "has made a formal statement to me of your impious demonstration."

What a fatal accident, I thought, appalled; but I tried to explain the matter. I expressed
regret. The other gazed at me benevolently.

"Nevertheless, Señor, pray follow me. Even for your own safety. You must give some account
of yourself."

This I was firmly resolved not to give. But the Lugareño had been going through a pantomime
of scrutinizing my person. He crouched up, stepped back, then to one side.

"This worthy man," began the official in black, "complains of your violence, too...."

"This worthy man," I shouted stupidly, "is a pirate. He is a Rio Medio Lugareño. He is a criminal."

The official seemed astounded, and I saw my idiotic mistake at once--too late!

"Strange," he murmured, and, at the same time, the ruffianly wretch began to shout:

"It is he! The traitor! The heretic! I recognize him!"

"Peace, peace!" said the man in black.

"I demand to be taken before the Juez Don Patricio for a deposition," shrieked the Lugareño.
A crowd was beginning to collect.

The official and the officer exchanged consulting glances. At a word from the latter, the soldiers
closed upon me.

I felt utterly overcome, as if the earth had crumbled under my feet, and the heavens had been
rent in twain.

I walked between my captors across the street amongst hooting knots of people, and up the steps
of the portico, as if in a frightful dream.

In the gloomy, chilly hall they made me wait. A soldier stood on each side of me, and there,
absolutely before my eyes on a little table, reposed Mrs. Williams' shawl and Sebright's cap.
This was the very hall of the Palace of Justice of which Sebright had spoken. It was more than
ever like an absurd dream, now. But I had the leisure to collect my wits. I could not claim
the Consul's protection simply because I should have to give him a truthful account of myself,
and that would mean giving up Seraphina. The Consul could not protect her. But the Lion would
sail on the morrow. Sebright would understand it if Williams did not. I trusted Sebright's
sagacity. Yes, she would sail tomorrow evening. A day and a half. If I could only keep the
knowledge of Seraphina from O'Brien till then--she was safe, and I should be safe, too, for
my lips would be unsealed. I could claim the protection of my Consul and proclaim the villainy
of the Juez.

"Go in there now, Señor, to be confronted with your accuser," said the official in black, appearing
before me. He pointed at a small door to the left. My heart was beating steadily. I felt a
sort of intrepid resignation.

PART FIFTH -- THE LOT OF MAN

CHAPTER ONE

"Why have I been brought here, your worships?" I asked, with a great deal of firmness.

There were two figures in black, the one beside, the other behind a large black table. I was
placed in front of them, between two soldiers, in the centre of a large, gaunt room, with bare,
dirty walls, and the arms of Spain above the judge's seat.

"You are before the Juez de la Primiera Instancia," said the man in black beside the table.
He wore a large and shadowy tricorn. "Be silent, and respect the procedure."

It was, without doubt, excellent advice. He whispered some words in the ear of the Judge of
the First Instance. It was plain enough to me that the judge was a quite inferior official,
who merely decided whether there were any case against the accused; he had, even to his clerk,
an air of timidity, of doubt.

I said, "But I insist on knowing...."

The clerk said, "In good time...." And then, in the same tone of disinterested official routine,
he spoke to the Lugareño, who, from beside the door, rolled very frightened eyes from the judges
and the clerk to myself and the soldiers--"Advance."

The judge, in a hurried, perfunctory voice, put questions to the Lugareño; the clerk scratched
with a large quill on a sheet of paper.

"Where do you come from?"

"The town of Rio Medio, Excellency."

"Of what occupation?"

"Excellency--a few goats...."

"Why are you here?"

"My daughter, Excellency, married Pepe of the posada in the Calle...."

The judge said, "Yes, yes," with an unsanguine impatience. The Lugareño's dirty hands jumped
nervously on the large rim of his limp hat.

"You lodge a complaint against the senor there."

The clerk pointed the end of his quill towards me.

"I? God forbid, Excellency," the Lugareño bleated. "The Alguazil of the Criminal Court instructed
me to be watchful.

"You lodge an information, then?" the juez said.

"Maybe it is an information, Excellency," the Lugareño answered, "as regards the senor there."

The Alguazil of the Criminal Court had told him, and many other men of Rio Medio, to be on
the watch for me, "undoubtedly touching what had happened, as all the world knew, in Rio Medio."

He looked me full in the face with stupid insolence, and said:

"At first I much doubted, for all the world said this man was dead--though others said worse
things. Perhaps, who knows?"

He had seen me, he said, many times in Rio Medio, outside the Casa; on the balcony of the Casa,
too. And he was sure that I was a heretic and an evil person.

It suddenly struck me that this man--I was undoubtedly familiar with his face--must be the
lieutenant of Manuel-del-Popolo, his boon companion. Without doubt, he had seen me on the balcony
of the Casa.

He had gained a lot of assurance from the conciliatory manner of the Juez, and said suddenly,
in a tentative way:

"An evil person; a heretic? Who knows? Perhaps it was he who incited some people there to murder
his señoria, the illustrious Don."

I said almost contemptuously, "Surely the charge against me is most absurd? Everyone knows
who I am."

The old judge made a gentle, tired motion with his hand.

"Señor," he said, "there is no charge against you--except that no one knows who you are. You
were in a place where very lamentable and inexplicable things happened; you are now in Havana:
you have no passport. I beg of you to remain calm. These things are all in order."

I hadn't any doubt that, as far as he knew, he was speaking the truth. He was a man, very evidently,
of a weary and naïve simplicity. Perhaps it was really true--that I should only have to explain;
perhaps it was all over.

O'Brien came into the room with the casual step of an official from an office entering another's
room.

It was as if seeing me were a thing that he very much disliked--that he came because he wanted
to satisfy himself of my existence, of my identity, and my being alone. The slow stare that
he gave me did not mitigate the leisureliness of his entry. He walked behind the table; the
judge rose with immense deference; with his eternal smile, and no word spoken, he motioned
the judge to resume the examination; he stood looking at the clerk's notes meditatively, the
smile still round lips that had a nervous tremble, and eyes that had dark marks beneath them.
He seemed as if he were still smiling just after having been violently shaken.

The judge went on examining the Lugareño.

"Do you know whence the señor came?"

"Excellency, Excellency...." The man stuttered, his eyes on O'Brien's face.

"Nor how long he was in the town of Rio Medio?" the judge went on.

O'Brien suddenly drooped towards his ear. "All those things are known, senor, my colleague,"
he said, and began to whisper.

The old judge showed signs of very naïve astonishment and joy.

"Is it possible?" he exclaimed. "This man? He is very young to have committed such crimes."

The clerk hurriedly left the room. He returned with many papers. O'Brien, leaning over the
judge's shoulder, emphasized words with one finger. What new villainies could O'Brien be meditating?
It wasn't possibly the Lugareño's suggestion that I had lured men to murder Don Balthasar?
Was it merely that I had infringed some law in carrying off Seraphina?

The old judge said, "How lucky, Don Patricio! We may now satisfy the English admiral. What
good fortune!"

He suddenly sat straight in his chair; O'Brien behind him scrutinized my face--to see how I
should bear what was coming.

"What is your name?" the judge asked peremptorily.

I said, "Juan--John Kemp. I am of noble English family; I am well enough known. Ask the Señor
O'Brien."

On O'Brien's shaken face the smile hardened.

"I heard that in Rio Medio the senor was called... was called..." He paused and appealed to
the Lugareño.

"What was he called--the capataz the man who led the picaroons?"

The Lugareño stammered, "Nikola... Nikola el Escoces, Señor Don Patricio."

"You hear?" O'Brien asked the judge. "This villager identifies the man."

"Undoubtedly--undoubtedly," the Juez said. "We need no more evidence.... You, Señor, have seen
this villain in Rio Medio, this villager identifies him by name."

I said, "This is absurd. A hundred witnesses can say that I am John Kemp...."

"That may be true," the Juez said dryly, and then to his clerk:

"Write here, 'John Kemp, of noble British family, called, on the scene of his crimes, Nikola
el Escoces, otherwise El Demonio.'"

I shrugged my shoulders. I did not, at the moment, realize to what this all tended.

The judge said to the clerk, "Read the Act of Accusation. Read here...." He was pointing to
a paragraph of the papers the clerk had brought in. They were the Act of Accusation, prepared
long before, against the man Nichols.

This particular villainy suddenly became grotesquely and portentously plain. The clerk read
an appalling catalogue of sordid crimes, working into each other like kneaded dough--the testimony
of witnesses who had signed the record. Nikola had looted fourteen ships, and had apparently
murdered twenty-two people with his own hand--two of them women--and there was the affair of
Rowley's boats. "The pinnace," the clerk read, "of the British came within ten yards. The said
Nikola then exclaimed, 'Curse the bloodthirsty hounds,' and fired the grapeshot into the boat.
Seven were killed by that discharge. This I saw with my own eyes.... Signed, Isidoro Alemanno."
And another swore, "The said Nikola was below, but he came running up, and with one blow of
his knife severed the throat of the man who was kneeling on the deck...."

There was no doubt that Nikola had committed these crimes; that the witnesses had sworn to
them and signed the deposition.... The old judge had evidently never seen him, and now O'Brien
and the Lugareño had sworn that I was Nikola el Escoces, alias El Demonio.

My first impulse was to shout with rage; but I checked it because I knew I should be silenced.
I said:

"I am not Nikola el Escoces. That I can easily prove."

The Judge of the First Instance shrugged his shoulders and looked, with implicit trust, up
into O'Brien's face.

"That man," I pointed at the Lugareño, "is a pirate. And, what is more, he is in the pay of
the Señor Juez O'Brien. He was the lieutenant of a man called Manuel-del-Popolo, who commanded
the Lugareños after Nikola left Rio Medio."

"You know very much about the pirates," the Juez said, with the sardonic air of a very stupid
man. "Without doubt you were intimate with them. I sign now your order for committal to the
carcel of the Marine Court."

I said, "But I tell you I am not Nikola...."

The Juez said impassively, "You pass out of my hands into those of the Marine Court. I am satisfied
that you are a person deserving of a trial. That is the limit of my responsibility."

I shouted then, "But I tell you this O'Brien is my personal enemy."

The old man smiled acidly.

"The señor need fear nothing of our courts. He will be handed over to his own countrymen. Without
doubt of them he will obtain justice." He signed to the Lugareño to go, and rose, gathering
up his papers; he bowed to O'Brien. "I leave the criminal at the disposal of your worship,"
he said, and went out with his clerk.

O'Brien sent out the two soldiers after him, and stood there alone. He had never been so near
his death. But for sheer curiosity, for my sheer desire to know what he could say, I would
have smashed in his brains with the clerk's stool. I was going to do it; I made one step towards
the stool. Then I saw that he was crying.

"The curse--the curse of Cromwell on you," he sobbed suddenly. "You send me back to hell again."
He writhed his whole body. "Sorrow!" he said, "I know it. But what's this? What's this?"

The many reasons he had for sorrow flashed on me like a procession of sombre images.

"Dead and done with a man can bear," he muttered. "But this--Not to know--perhaps alive--perhaps
hidden--She may be dead...." With a change like a flash he was commanding me.

"Tell me how you escaped."

I had a vague inspiration of the truth.

"You aren't fit for a decent man's speaking to," I said.

"You let her drown."

It gave me suddenly the measure of his ignorance; he did not know anything--nothing. His hell
was uncertainty. Well, let him stay there.

"Where is she?" he said. "Where is she?"

"Where she's no need to fear you," I answered.

He had a sudden convulsive gesture, as if searching for a weapon.

"If you'll tell me she's alive..." he began.

"Oh, I'm not dead," I answered.

"Never a drowned puppy was more," he said, with a flash of vivacity. "You hang here--for murder--or
in England for piracy."

"Then I've little to want to live for," I sneered at him.

"You let her drown," he said. "You took her from that house, a young girl, in a little boat.
And you can hold up your head."

"I was trying to save her from you," I answered.

"By God," he said. "These English--I've seen them, spit the child on the mother's breast. I've
seen them set fire to the thatch of the widow and childless. But this.... But this.... I can
save you, I tell you."

"You can't make me go through worse than I've borne," I answered. Sorrow and all he might wish
on my head, my life was too precious to him till I spoke. I wasn't going to speak.

"I'll search every ship in the harbour," he said passionately.

"Do," I said. "Bring your Lugareños to the task."

Upon the whole, I wasn't much afraid. Unless he got definite evidence he couldn't--in the face
of the consul's protests, and the presence of the admiral--touch the Lion again. He fixed his
eyes intently upon me.

"You came in the American brigantine," he said. "It's known you landed in her boat."

I didn't answer him; it was plain enough that the drogher's arrival had either not been reported
to him, or it had been searched in vain.

"In her boat," he repeated. "I tell you I know she is not dead; even you, an Englishman, must
have a different face if she were."

"I don't at least ask you for life," I said, "to enjoy with her."

"She's alive," he said. "Alive! As for where, it matters little. I'll search every inch of
the island, every road, every hacienda. You don't realize my power."

"Then search the bottom of the sea," I shouted.

"Let's look at the matter in the right light."

He had mastered his grief, his incertitude. He was himself again, and the smile had returned--as
if at the moment he forced his features to their natural lines.

"Send one of your friars to heaven--you'll never go there yourself to meet her."

"If you will tell me she's alive, I'll save you."

I made a mute, obstinate gesture.

"If she's alive, and you don't tell me, I can't but find her. And I'll make you know the agonies
of suspense--a long way from here."

I was silent.

"If she's dead, and you'll tell me, I'll save you some trouble. If she's dead and you don't,
you'll have your own remorse and the rest, too."

I said, "You're too Irish mysterious for me to understand. But you've a choice of four evils
for me--choose yourself."

He continued with a quivering, taut good-humour: "Prove to me she's dead, and I'll let you
die sharply and mercifully."

"You won't believe!" I said; but he took no notice.

"I tell you plainly," he smiled. "If we find... if we find her dear body--and I can't help;
but I've men on the watch all along the shores--I'll give you up to your admiral for a pirate.
You'll have a long slow agony of a trial; I know what English justice is. And a disgraceful
felon's death."

I was thinking that, in any case, a day or so might be gained, the Lion would be gone; they
could not touch her while the flagship remained outside. I certainly didn't want to be given
up to the admiral; I might explain the mistaken identity. But there was the charge of treason
in Jamaica. I said:

"I only ask to be given up; but you daren't do it for your own credit. I can show you up."

He said, "Make no mistake! If he gets you, he'll hang you. He's going home in disgrace. Your
whole blundering Government will work to hang you."

"They know pretty well," I answered, "that there are queer doings in Havana. I promise you,
I'll clear things up. I know too much...."

He said, with a sudden, intense note of passion, "Only tell me where her grave is, I'll let
you go free. You couldn't, you dare not, dastard that you are, go away from where she died--without...
without making sure."

"Then search all the new graves in the island," I said, "I'll tell you nothing.... Nothing!"

He came at me again and again, but I never spoke after that. He made all the issues clearer
and clearer--his own side involuntarily and all the griefs I had to expect. As for him, he
dared not kill me--and he dared not give me up to the admiral. In his suspense, since, for
him, I was the only person in the world who knew Seraphina's fate, he dared not let me out
of his grip. And all the while he had me he must keep the admiral there, waiting for the surrender
either of myself or of some other poor devil whom he might palm off as Nikola el Escoces. While
the admiral was there the Lion was pretty safe from molestation, and she would sail pretty soon.

At the same time, except for the momentary sheer joy of tormenting a man whom I couldn't help
regarding as a devil, I had more than enough to fear. I had suffered too much; I wanted rest,
woman's love, slackening off. And here was another endless coil--endless. If it didn't end
in a knife in the back, he might keep me for ages in Havana; or he might get me sent to England,
where it would take months, an endless time, to prove merely that I wasn't Nikola el Escoces.
I should prove it; but, in the meantime, what would become of Sera-phina? Would she follow
me to England? Would she even know that I had gone there? Or would she think me dead and die
herself? O'Brien knew nothing; his spies might report a hundred uncertainties. He was standing
rigidly still now, as if afraid to move for fear of breaking down. He said suddenly:

"You came in some ship; you can't deceive me, I shall have them all searched again."

I said desperately, "Search and be damned--whatever ships you like."

"You cold, pitiless, English scoundrel," he shrieked suddenly. The breaking down of his restraint
had let him go right into madness. "You have murdered her. You cared nothing; you came from
nowhere. A beggarly fool, too stupid to be even an adventurer. A miserable blunderer, coming
in blind; coming out blind; and leaving ruin and worse than hell. What good have you done yourself?
What could you? What did you see? What did you hope?... Sorrow? Ruin? Death? I am acquainted
with them. It is in the blood; 'tis in the tone; in the entrails of us, in our mother's milk.
Your accursed land has brought always that on our own dear and sorrowful country.... You waste,
you ruin, you spoil. What for?... Tell me what for? Tell me? Tell me? What did you gain? What
will you ever gain? An unending curse!... But, ah, ye've no souls."

He called very loudly, as if with a passionate relief, his voice giving life to an unsuspected,
misgiving echo:

"Guards! Soldiers!... You shall be shot, now!"

He was going to cut the knot that way. Two soldiers pushed the door noisily open, their muskets
advanced. He took no notice of them; and they retained an attitude of military stupidity, their
eyes upon him. He whispered:

"No, no! Not yet!"

Then he looked at me searchingly, as if he still hoped to get some certainty from my face,
some inkling, perhaps some inspiration of what would persuade me to speak. Then he shook his
wrists violently, as if in fear of himself.

"Take him away," he said. "Away! Out of reach of my hands. Out of reach of my hands."

I was trembling a good deal; when the soldiers entered I thought I had got to my last minute.
But, as it was, he had not learnt a thing from me. Not a thing. And I did not see where else
he could go for information.

CHAPTER TWO

The entrance to the common prison of Havana was a sort of lofty tunnel, finished by great,
iron-rusted, wooden gates. A civil guard was exhibiting the judge's warrant for my committal
to a white-haired man, with a red face and blue eyes, that seemed to look through tumbled bushes
of silver eyebrows--the alcayde of the prison. He bowed, and rattled two farcically large keys.
A practicable postern was ajar on the yellow wood of the studded gates. It was as if it afforded
a glimpse of the other side of the world. The venerable turnkey, a gnome in a steeple-crowned
hat, protruded a blood-red hand backwards in the direction of the postern.

"Señor Caballero," he croaked, "I pray you to consider this house your own. My servants are yours."

Within was a gravel yard, shut in by portentous lead-white house-sides with black window holes.
Under each row of windows was a vast vaulted tunnel, caged with iron bars, for all the world
like beasts' dens. It being day, the beasts were out and lounging about the patio. They had
an effect of infinite tranquillity, as if they were ladies and gentlemen parading in a Sunday
avenue. Perhaps twenty of them, in snowy white shirts and black velvet knee-breeches, strutted
like pigeons in a knot, some with one woman on the arm, some with two. Bundles of variegated
rags lay against the walls, as if they were sweepings. Well, they were the sweepings of Havana
jail. The men in white and black were the great thieves... and there were children, too--the
place was the city orphanage. For the fifth part of a second my advent made no difference.
Then, at the far end, one of the men in black and white separated himself, and came swiftly
to me across the sunny patio. The others followed slowly, with pea-fowl steps, their women
hanging to them and whispering. The bundles of rags rose up towards me; others slunk furtively
out of the barred dens. The man who was approaching had the head of a Julius Cæsar of fifty,
for all the world as if he had stolen a bust and endowed it with yellow skin and stubby gray
and silver hair. He saluted me with intense gravity and an imperial glance of yellow eyes along
a hooked nose. His linen was the most spotless broidered and embossed stuff; îrom the crimson
scarf round his waist protruded the shagreen and silver handle of a long dagger. He said:

"Señor, I have the honour to salute you. I am Crisostomo Garcia. I ask the courtesy of your
trousers."

I did not answer him. I did not see what he wanted with my trousers, which weren't anyway as
valuable as his own. The others were closing in on me like a solid wall. I leant back against
the gate; I was not frightened, but I was mightily excited. The man like Cæsar looked fiercely
at me, swayed a long way back on his haunches, and imperiously motioned the crowd to recede.

"Señor Inglesito," he said, "the gift I have the honour to ask of you is the price of my protection.
Without it these, my brothers, will tear you limb from limb, there will nothing of you remain."

His brothers set up a stealthy, sinister growl, that went round among the heads like the mutter
of an obscene echo among the mountain-tops. I wondered whether this, perhaps, was the man who,
O'Brien said, would put a knife in my back. I hadn't any knife; I might knock the fellow's
teeth down his throat, though.

The alcayde thrust his immense hat, blood-red face, and long, ragged, silver locks out of the
little door. His features were convulsed with indignation. He had been whispering with the
Civil Guard.

"Are you mad, gentlemen?" he said. "Do you wish to visit hell before your times? Do you know
who the senor is? Did you ever hear of Carlos el Demonio? This is the Inglesito of Rio Medio!"

It was plain that my deeds, such as they were, reported by O'Brien spies, by the Lugareños,
by all sorts of credulous gossipers, had got me the devil of a reputation in the patio of the
jail. Men detached themselves from the crowd, and went running about to announce my arrival.
The alcayde drew his long body into the patio, and turned to lock the little door with an immense
key. In the crowd all sorts of little movements happened. Women crossed themselves, and furtively
thrust pairs of crooked, skinny, brown, black-nailed fingers in my direction. The man like
Cæsar said:

"I ask your pardon, Señor Caballero. I did not know. How could I tell? You are free of all
the patios in this land."

The tall alcayde finished grinding the immense key in the lock, and touched me on the arm.

"If the senor will follow me," he said. "I will do the honours of this humble mansion, and
indicate a choice of rooms where he may be free from the visits of these gentry."

We went up steps, and through long, shadowy corridors, with here and there a dark, lounging
figure, like a stag seen in the dim aisles of a wood. The alcayde threw open a door.

The room was like a blazing oblong-box, filled with light, but without window or chimney. Two
men were fencing in the illumination of some twenty candles stuck all round the mildewed white
walls on lumps of clay. There was a blaze of silver things, like an altar of a wealthy church,
from a black, carved table in the far corner. The two men, in shirts and breeches, revolved
round each other, their rapiers clinking, their left arms scarved, holding buttoned daggers.
The alcayde proclaimed:

"Don Vincente Salazar, I have the honour to announce an English senor."

The man with his face to me tossed his rapier impatiently into a corner. He was a plump, dark
Cuban, with a brooding truculence. The other faced round quickly. His cheeks shone in the candle-light
like polished yellow leather, his eyes were narrow slits, his face lugubrious. He scrutinized
me intently, then drawled:

"My! You?... Hang me if I didn't think it would be you!"

He had the air of surveying a monstrosity, and pulled the neck of his dirty print shirt open,
panting. He slouched out into the corridor, and began whispering eagerly to the alcayde. The
little Cuban glowered at me; I said I had the honour to salute him.

He muttered something contemptuous between his teeth. Well, if he didn't want to talk to me,
I didn't want to talk to him. It had struck me that the tall, sallow man was undoubtedly the
second mate of the Thames. Nicholas, the real Nikola el Escoces! The Cuban grumbled suddenly:

"You, Señor, are without doubt one of the spies of that friend of the priests, that O'Brien.
Tell him to beware--that I bid him beware. I, Don Vincente Salazar de Valdepefias y Forli y..."

I remembered the name; he was once the suitor of Seraphina--the man O'Brien had put out of
the way. He continued with a grotesque frown of portentous significance:

"To-morrow I leave this place. And your compatriot is very much afraid, Señor. Let him fear!
Let him fear! But a thousand spies should not save him."

The tall alcayde came hurriedly back and stood bowing between us. He apologized abjectly to
the Cuban for intruding me upon him. But the room was the best in the place at the disposal
of the prisoners of the Juez O'Brien. And I was a noted caballero. Heaven knows what I had
not done in Rio Medio. Burnt, slain, ravished.... The Señor Juez was understood to be much
incensed against me. The gloomy Cuban at once rushed upon me, as if he would have taken me
into his arms.

"The Inglesito of Rio Medio!" he said. "Ha, ha! Much have I heard of you. Much of the senor's
valiance! Many tales! That foul eater of the carrion of the priests wishes your life! Ah, but
let him beware! I shall save you, Señor--I, Don Vincente Salazar."

He presented me with the room--a remarkably bare place but for his properties: silver branch
candlesticks, a silver chafing-dish as large as a basin. They might have been chased by Cellini--one
used to find things like that in Cuba in those days, and Salazar was the person to have them.
Afterwards, at the time of the first insurrection, his eight-mule harness was sold for four
thousand pounds in Paris--by reason of the gold and pearls upon it. The atmosphere, he explained,
was fetid, but his man was coming to burn sandal-wood and beat the air with fans.

"And to-morrow!" he said, his eyes rolling. Suddenly he stopped. "Señor," he said, "is it true
that my venerated friend, my more than father, has been murdered--at the instigation of that
fiend? Is it true that the senorita has disappeared? These tales are told."

I said it was very true.

"They shall be avenged," he declared, "to-morrow! I shall seek out the senorita. I shall find
her. I shall find her! For me she was destined by my venerable friend."

He snatched a black velvet jacket from the table and put it on.

"Afterwards, Señor, you shall relate. Have no fear. I shall save you. I shall save all men
oppressed by this scourge of the land. For the moment afford me the opportunity to meditate."
He crossed his arms, and dropped his round head. "Alas, yes!" he meditated.

Suddenly he waved towards the door. "Señor," he said swiftly, "I must have air; I stifle. Come
with me to the corridor...."

He went towards the window giving on to the patio; he stood in the shadow, his arms folded,
his head hanging dejectedly. At the moment it grew suddenly dark, as if a veil had been thrown
over a lamp. The sun had set outside the walls. A drum began to beat. Down below in the obscurity
the crowd separated into three strings and moved slowly towards the barren tunnels. Under our
feet the white shirts disappeared; the ragged crowd gravitated to the left; the small children
strung into the square cage-door. The drum beat again and the crowd hurried. Then there was
a clang of closing grilles and lights began to show behind the bars from deep recesses. In
a little time there was a repulsive hash of heads and limbs to be seen under the arches vanishing
a long way within, and a little light washed across the gravel of the patio from within.

"Señor," the Cuban said suddenly, "I will pronounce his panegyric. He was a man of a great
gentleness, of an inevitable nobility, of an invariable courtesy. Where, in this degenerate
age, shall we find the like!" He stopped to breathe a sound of intense exasperation.

"When I think of these Irish,..." he said. "Of that O'Brien...." A servant was arranging the
shining room that we had left. Salazar interrupted himself to give some orders about a banquet,
then returned to me. "I tell you I am here for introducing my knife to the spine of some sort
of Madrid embustero, a man who was insolent to my amiga Clara. Do you believe that for that
this O'Brien, by the influence of the priests whose soles he licks with his tongue, has had
me inclosed for many months? Because he feared me! Aha! I was about to expose him to the noble
don who is now dead! I was about to wed the Señorita who has disappeared. But to-morrow...
I shall expose his intrigue to the Captain-General. You, Señor, shall be my witness! I extend
my protection to you...." He crossed his arms and spoke with much deliberation. "Señor, this
Irishman incommodes me, Don Vincente Salazar de Valdepeñas y Forli...." He nodded his head
expressively. "Señor, we offered these Irish the shelter of our robe for that your Government
was making martyrs of them who were good Christians, and it behoves us to act in despite of
your Government, who are heretics and not to be tolerated upon God's Christian earth. But,
Señor, if they incommoded your Government as they do us, I do not wonder that there was a desire
to remove them. Señor, the life of that man is not worth the price of eight mules, which is
the price I have paid for my release. I might walk free at this moment, but it is not fitting
that I should slink away under cover of darkness. I shall go out in the daylight with my carriage.
And I will have an offering to show my friends who, like me, are incommoded by this...." The
man was a monomaniac; but it struck me that, if I had been O'Brien, I should have felt uncomfortable.

In the dark of the corridor a long shape appeared, lounging. The Cuban beside me started hospitably
forward.

"Vamos," he said briskly; "to the banquet...." He waved his hand towards the shining door and
stood aside. We entered.

The other man was undoubtedly the Nova Scotian mate of the Thames, the man who had dissuaded
me from following Carlos on the day we sailed into Kingston Harbour. He was chewing a toothpick,
and at the ruminant motion of his knife-jaws I seemed to see him, sitting naked to the waist
in his bunk, instead of upright there in red trousers and a blue shirt--an immense lank-length
of each. I pieced his history together in a sort of flash. He was the true Nikola el Escoces;
his name was Nichols, and he came from Nova Scotia. He had been the chief of O'Brien's Lugareños.
He surveyed me now with a twinkle in his eyes, his yellow jaws as shiny-shaven as of old; his
arms as much like a semaphore. He said mockingly:

"So you went there, after all?"

But the Cuban was pressing us towards his banquet; there was gaspacho in silver plates, and
a man in livery holding something in a napkin. It worried me. We surveyed each other in silence.
I wondered what Nichols knew; what it would be safe to tell him; how much he could help me?
One or other of these men undoubtedly might. The Cuban was an imbecile; but he might have some
influence--and if he really were going out on the morrow, and really did go to the Captain-General,
he certainly could further his own revenge on O'Brien by helping me.... But as for Nichols....

Salazar began to tell a long, exaggerated story about his cook, whom he had imported from Paris.

"Think," he said; "I bring the fool two thousand miles--and then--not even able to begin on
a land-crab. A fool!"

The Nova Scotian cast an uninterested side glance at him, and said in English, which Salazar
did not understand:

"So you went there, after all? And now he's got you." I did not answer him. "I know all about
you," he added.

"It's more than I do about you," I said.

He rose and suddenly jerked the door open, peered on each side of the corridor, and then sat
down again.

"I'm not afraid to tell," he said defiantly. "I'm not afraid of anything. I'm safe."

The Cuban said to me in Spanish: "This senor is my friend. Everyone who hates that devil is
my friend."

"I'm safe," Nichols repeated. "I know too much about our friend the raparee." He lowered his
voice. "They say you're to be given up for piracy, eh?" His eyes had an extraordinarily anxious
leer. "You are now, eh? For how much? Can't you tell a man? We're in the same boat! I kin help
you!"

Salazar accidentally knocked a silver goblet off the table and, at the sound, Nichols sprang
half off his chair. He glared in a wild stare around him then grasped at a flagon of aguardiente
and drank.

"I'm not afraid of any damn thing" he said. "I've got a hold on that man. He dursen't give
me up. I kin see! He's going to give you up and say you're responsible for it all."

"I don't know what he's going to do," I answered.

"Will you not, Señor," Salazar said suddenly, "relate, if you can without distress, the heroic
death of that venerated man?"

I glanced involuntarily at Nichols. "The distress," I said, "would be very great. I was Don
Balthasar's kinsman. The Señor O'Brien had a great fear of my influence in the Casa. It was
in trying to take me away that Don Balthasar, who defended me, was slain by the Lugareños of
O'Brien."

Salazar said, "Aha! Aha! We are kindred spirits. Hated and loved by the same souls. This fiend,
Señor. And then...."

"I escaped by sea--in an open boat, in the confusion. When I reached Havana, the Juez had me
arrested."

Salazar raised both hands; his gestures, made for large, grave men, were comic in him. They
reduced Spanish manners to absurdity. He said:

"That man dies. That man dies. To-morrow I go to the Captain-General. He shall hear this story
of yours, Señor. He shall know of these machinations which bring honest men to this place.
We are a band of brothers...."

"That's what I say." Nichols leered at me. "We're all in the same boat."

I expect he noticed that I wasn't moved by his declaration. He said, still in English:

"Let us be open. Let's have a council of war. This O'Brien hates me because I wouldn't fire
on my own countrymen." He glanced furtively at me. "I wouldn't," he asserted; "he wanted me
to fire into their boats; but I wouldn't. Don't you believe the tales they tell about me! They
tell worse about you. Who says I would fire on my countrymen? Where's the man who says it?"
He had been drinking more brandy and glared ferociously at me. "None of your tricks, my hearty,"
he said. "None of your getting out and spreading tales. O'Brien's my friend; he'll never give
me up. He dursen't. I know too much. You're a pirate! No doubt it was you who fired into them
boats. By God I'll be witness against you if they give me up. I'll show you up."

All the while the little Cuban talked swiftly and with a saturnine enthusiasm. He passed the
wine rapidly.

"My own countrymen!" Nichols shouted. "Never! I shot a Yankee lieutenant--Allen he was--with
my own hand. That's another thing. I'm not a man to trifle with. No, sir. Don't you try it....
Why, I've papers that would hang O'Brien. I sent them home to Halifax. I know a trick worth
his. By God, let him try it! Let him only try it. He dursen't give me up...."

The man in livery came in to snuff the candles. Nichols sprang from his seat in a panic and
drew his knife with frantic haste. He continued, glaring at me from the wall, the knife in
his hand:

"Don't you dream of tricks. I've cut more throats than you've kissed gals in your little life."

Salazar himself drew an immense pointed knife with a shagreen hilt. He kissed it rapturously.

"Aha!... Aha!" he said, "bear this kiss into his ribs at the back." His eyes glistened with
this mania. "I swear it; when I next see this dog; this friend of the priests." He threw the
knife on the table. "Look," he said, "was ever steel truer or more thirsty?"

"Don't you make no mistake," Nichols continued to me. "Don't you think to presume. O'Brien's
my friend. I'm here snug and out of the way of the old fool of an admiral. That's why he's
kept waiting off the Morro. When he goes, I walk out free. Don't you try to frighten me. I'm
not a man to be frightened."

Salazar bubbled: "Ah, but now the wine flows and is red. We are a band of brothers, each loving
the other. Brothers, let us drink."

The air of close confinement, the blaze, the feel of the jail, pressed upon me, and I felt
sore, suddenly, at having eaten and drunk with those two. The idea of Seraphina, asleep perhaps,
crying perhaps, something pure and distant and very blissful, came in upon me irresistibly.

The little Cuban said, "We have had a very delightful conversation. It is very plain this O'Brien
must die."

I rose to my feet. "Gentlemen," I said in Spanish, "I am very weary; I will go and sleep in
the corridor."

The Cuban sprang towards me with an immense anxiety of hospitableness. I was to sleep on his
couch, the couch of cloth of gold. It was impossible, it was insulting, that I should think
of sleeping in the corridor. He thrust me gently down upon it, making with his plump hands
the motions of smoothing it to receive me. I lay down and turned my face to the wall.

It wasn't possible to sleep, even though the little Cuban, with a tender solicitude, went round
the walls blowing out the candles. He might be useful to me, might really explain matters to
the Captain-General, or might even, as a last resource, take a letter from me to the British
Consul. But I should have to be alone with him. Nichols was an abominable scoundrel; bloodthirsty
to the defenceless; a liar; craven before the ghost of a threat. No doubt O'Brien did not want
to give him up. Perhaps he had papers. And no doubt, once he could find a trace of Seraphina's
whereabouts, O'Brien would give me up. All I could do was to hope for a gain of time. And yet,
if I gained time, it could only mean that I should in the end be given up to the admiral.

And Seraphina's whereabouts. It came over me lamentably that I myself did not know. The Lion
might have sailed. It was possible. She might be at sea. Then, perhaps, my only chance of ever
seeing her again lay in my being given up to the admiral, to stand in England a trial, perhaps
for piracy, perhaps for treason. I might meet her only in England, after many years of imprisonment.
It wasn't possible. I would not believe in the possibility. How I loved her! How wildly, how
irrationally--this woman of another race, of another world, bound to me by sufferings together,
by joys together. Irrationally! Looking at the matter now, the reason is plain enough. Before
then I had not lived. I had only waited--for her and for what she stood for. It was in my blood,
in my race, in my tradition, in my training. We, all of us for generations, had made for efficiency,
for drill, for restraint. Our Romance was just this very Spanish contrast, this obliquity of
vision, this slight tilt of the convex mirror that shaped the same world so differently to
onlookers at different points of its circle.

I could feel a little of it even then, when there was only the merest chance of my going back
to England and getting back towards our old position on the rim of the mirror. The deviousness,
the wayward passion, even the sempiternal abuses of the land were already beginning to take
the aspect of something like quaint impotence. It was charm that, now I was on the road away,
was becoming apparent. The inconveniences of life, the physical discomforts, the smells of
streets, the heat, dropped into the background. I felt that I did not want to go away, irrevocably
from a land sanctioned by her presence, her young life. I turned uneasily to the other side.
At the heavy black table, in the light of a single candle, the Cuban and the Nova Scotian were
discussing, their heads close together.

"I tell you no," Nichols was saying in a fluent, abominable, literal translation into Spanish.
"Take the knife so... thumb upwards. Stab down in the soft between the neck and the shoulder-blade.
You get right into the lungs with the point. I've tried it: ten times. Never stick the back.
The chances are he moves, and you hit a bone. There are no bones there. It's the way they kill
pigs in New Jersey."

The Cuban bent his brows as if he were reflecting over a chessboard. "Ma...." he pondered.
His knife was lying on the table. He unsheathed it, then got up, and moved behind the seated
Nova Scotian.

"You say... there?" he asked, pressing his little finger at the base of Nichols' skinny column
of a neck. "And then..." He measured the length of the knife on Nichols's back twice with elaborate
care, breathing through his nostrils. Then he said with a convinced, musing air, "It is true.
It would go down into the lungs."

"And there are arteries and things," Nichols said.

"Yes, yes," the Cuban answered, sheathing the knife and thrusting it into his belt.

"With a knife that length it's perfect." Nichols waved his shadowy hand towards Salazar's scarf.
Salazar moved off a little.

"I see the advantages," he said. "No crying out, because of the blood in the lungs. I thank
yous Señor Escoces."

Nichols rose, lurching to his full height, and looked in my direction. I closed my eyes. I
did not wish him to talk to me. I heard him say:

"Well, hasta mas ver. I shall get away from here. Good-night."

He swayed an immense shadow through the door. Salazar took the candle and followed him into
the corridor.

Yes, that was it, why she was so great a part, a whole wall, a whole beam of my life's house.
I saw her suddenly in the blackness, her full red lips, her quivering nostrils, the curve of
her breasts, her lithe movements from the hips, the way she set her feet down, the white flower
waxen in the darkness of her hair, and the robin-wing flutter of her lids over her gray eyes
when she smiled. I moved convulsively in my intense desire. I would have given my soul, my
share of eternity, my honour, only to see that flutter of the lids over the shining gray eyes.
I never felt I was beneath the imponderable pressure of a prison's wall till then. She was
infinite miles away; I could not even imagine what inanimate things surrounded her. She must
be talking to someone else; fluttering her lids like that. I recognized with a physical agony
that was more than jealousy how slight was my hold upon her. It was not in her race, in her
blood as in mine, to love me and my type. She had lived all her life in the middle of Romance,
and the very fire and passion of her South must make me dim prose to her. I remember the flicker
of Salazar's returning candle, cast in lines like an advancing scythe across the two walls
from the corridor. I slept.

I had the feeling of appalled horror suddenly invading my sleep; a vast voice seemed to be
exclaiming:

"Tell me where she is!"

I looked at the glowing horn of a lanthorn. It was O'Brien who held it. He stood over me, very
sombre.

"Tell me where she is," he said, the moment my eyes opened.

I said, "She's... she's------I don't know."

It appalls me even now to think how narrow was my escape. It was only because I had gone to
sleep in the thought that I did not know, that I answered that I did not know. Ah--he was a
cunning devil! To suddenly wake one; to get one's thoughts before one had had time to think!
I lay looking at him, shivering. I couldn't even see much of his face.

"Where is she?" he said again. "Where? Dead? Dead? God have mercy on your soul if the child
is dead!"

I was still trembling. If I had told him!--I could hardly believe I had not. He continued bending
over me with an attitude that hideously mocked solicitude.

"Where is she?" he asked again.

"Ransack the island," I said. He glared at me, lifting the lamp. "The whole earth, if you like."

He ground his teeth, bending very low over me; then stood up, raising his head into the shadow
above the lamp.

"What do I care for all the admirals?" he was speaking to himself. "No ship shall leave Havana
till...." He groaned. I heard him slap his forehead, and say distractedly, "But perhaps she
is not in a ship."

There was a silence in which I heard him breathe heavily, and then he amazed me by saying:

"Have pity."

I laughed, lying on my back. "On you!"

He bent down. "Fool! on yourself."

A vast and towering shadow ran along the wall.

There wasn't a sound. The face of Salazar appeared behind him, and an uplifted hand grasping
a knife. O'Brien saw the horror in my eyes. I gasped to him: "Look...." and before he could
move the knife went softly home between neck and shoulder. Salazar glided to the door and turned
to wave his hand at me. O'Brien's lips were pressed tightly together, the handle of the knife
was against his ear, the lanthorn hung at the end of his rigid arm for a moment. As he lowered
it, the blood spurted from his shoulder as if from a burst stand-pipe, only black and warm.
It fell over my face, over my hands, everywhere. For a minute of eternity his agonized eyes
searched my features, as if to discern whether I had connived, whether I condoned.

I had started up, my face coming right against his. I felt an immense horror. What did it mean?
What had he done? He had been such a power for so long, so inevitably, over my whole life that
I could not even begin to understand that this was not some new subtle villainy of his. He
shook his head slowly, his ear disturbing the knife.

Then he turned jerkily on his heel, the lanthorn swinging round and leaving me in his shadow.
There were ten paces to reach the door. It was like the finish of a race whether he would cover
the remaining seven after the first three steps. The dangling lanthorn shed small patches of
light through the holes in the metal top, like sunlight through leaves, upon the gloom of the
remote ceiling. At the fifth step he pressed his hand spasmodically to his mouth; at the sixth
he wavered to one side. I made a sudden motion as if to save him from falling. He was dying!
He was dying! I hardly realized what it meant. This immense weight was being removed from me.
I had no need to fear him any more. I couldn't understand, I could only look. This was his
passing. This....

He sank, knelt down, placing the Ian thorn on the floor. He covered his face with his hands
and began to cough incessantly, like a man dying of consumption. The glowing top of the lanthorn
hissed and sputtered out in little sharp blows, like hammer strokes... Carlos had coughed like
that. Carlos was dead. Now O'Brien! He was going. I should escape. It was all over. Was it
all over? He bowed stiffly forward, placing his hands on the stones, then lay over on his side
with his face to the light, his eyes glaring at it. I sat motionless, watching him. The lanthorn
lit the carved leg of the black table and a dusty circle of the flags. The spurts of blood
from his shoulder grew less long in answer to the pulsing of his heart; his fists unclenched,
he drew his legs up to his body, then sank down. His eyes looked suddenly at mine and, as the
features slowly relaxed, the smile seemed to come back, enigmatic, round his mouth.

He was dead; he was gone; I was free! He would never know where she was; never! He had gone,
with the question on his lips; with the agony of uncertainty in his eyes. From the door came
an immense, grotesque, and horrible chuckle.

"Aha!-Aha! I have saved you, Señor, I have protected you. We are as brothers."

Against the tenuous blue light of the dawn Salazar was gesticulating in the doorway. I felt
a sudden repulsion; a feeling of intense disgust. O'Brien lying there, I almost wished alive
again--I wanted to have him again, rather than that I should have been relieved of him by that
atrocious murder. I sat looking at both of them.

Saved! By that lunatic? I suddenly appreciated the agony of mind that alone could have brought
O'Brien, the cautious, the all-seeing, into this place--. to ask me a question that for him
was answered now. Answered for him more than for me.

Where was Seraphina? Where? How should I come to her? O'Brien was dead. And I.... Could I walk
out of this place and go to her? O'Brien was dead. But I...

I suddenly realized that now I was the pirate Nikola el Escoces--that now he was no more there,
nothing could save me from being handed over to the admiral. Nothing.

Salazar outside the door began to call boastfully towards the sound of approaching footsteps.'

"Aha! Aha! Come all of you! See what I have done! Come, Señor Alcayde! Come, brave soldiers..."

In that way died this man whose passion had for so long hung over my life like a shadow. Looking
at the matter now, I am, perhaps, glad that he fell neither by my hand nor in my quarrel. I
assuredly had injured him the first; I had come upon his ground; I had thwarted him; I had
been a heavy weight at a time when his fortunes had been failing. Failing they undoubtedly
were. He had run his course too far.

And, if his death removed him out of my path, the legacy of his intrigue caused me suffering
enough. Had he lived, there is no knowing what he might have done. He was bound to deliver
someone to the British--either myself or Nichols. Perhaps, at the last moment, he would have
kept me in Havana. There is no saying.

Undoubtedly he had not wished to deliver Nichols; either because he really knew too much or
because he had scruples. Nichols had certainly been faithful to him. And, with his fine irony,
it was delightful to him to think that I should die a felon's death in England. For those reasons
he had identified me with Nikola el Escoces, intending to give up whichever suited him at the
last moment.

Now that was settled for him and for me. The delivery was to take place at dawn, and O'Brien
not to be found, the old Judge of the First Instance had been sent to identify the prisoner.
He selected me, whom, of course, he recognized. There was no question of Nichols, who had been
imprisoned on a charge of theft trumped up by O'Brien.

Salazar, whether he would have gone to the Captain-General or not, was now entirely useless.
He was retained to answer the charge of murder. And to any protestations I could make, the
old Juez was entirely deaf.

"The senor must make representations to his own authorities," he said. "I have warrant for
what I have done."

It was impossible to expose O'Brien to him. The soldiers of the escort, in the dawn before
the prison gates, simply laughed at me.

They marched me down through the gray mists, to the water's edge. Two soldiers held my arms;
O'Brien's blood was drying on my face and on my clothes. I was, even to myself, a miserable
object. Among the négresses on the slimy boat-steps a thick, short man was asking questions.
He opened amazed eyes at the sight of me. It was Williams--the Lion was not yet gone then.
If he spoke to me, or gave token of connection with Seraphina, the Spaniards would understand.
They would take her from him certainly; perhaps immure her in a convent. And now that I was
bound irrevocably for England, she must go, too. He was shouldering his way towards my guards.

"Silence!" I shouted, without looking at him. "Go away, make sail.... Tell Sebright...."

My guards seemed to think I had gone mad; they laid hands upon me. I didn't struggle, and we
passed down towards the landing steps, brushing Williams aside. He stood perturbedly gazing
after me; then I saw him asking questions of a civil guard. A man-of-war's boat, the ensign
trailing in the glassy water, the glazed hats of the seamen bobbing like clockwork, was flying
towards us. Here was England! Here was home! I should have to clear myself of felony, to strain
every nerve and cheat the gallows. If only Williams understood, if only he did not make a fool
of himself. I couldn't see him any more; a jabbering crowd all round us was being kept at a
distance by the muskets of the soldiers. My only chance was Sebright's intelligence. He might
prevent Williams making a fool of himself. The commander of the guard said to the lieutenant
from the flagship, who had landed, attended by the master-at-arms:

"I have the honour to deliver to your worship's custody the prisoner promised to his excellency
the English admiral. Here are the papers disclosing his crimes to the justice. I beg for a
receipt."

A shabby escrivano from the prison advanced bowing, with an inkhorn, shaking a wet goose-quill.
A guardia civil offered his back. The lieutenant signed a paper hastily, then looking hard
at me, gave the order:

"Master-at-arms, handcuff one of the prisoner's hands to your own wrist. He is a desperate
character."

CHAPTER THREE

The first decent word I had spoken to me after that for months came from my turnkey at Newgate.
It was when he welcomed me back from my examination before the Thames Court magistrate. The
magistrate, a bad-tempered man, snuffy, with red eyes, and the air of being a piece of worn
and dirty furniture of his court, had snapped at me when I tried to speak:

"Keep your lies for the Admiralty Session. I've only time to commit you. Damn your Spaniards;
why can't they translate their own papers;" had signed something with a squeaky quill, tossed
it to his clerk, and grunted, "Next case."

I had gone back to Newgate.

The turnkey, a man with the air of an innkeeper, bandy-legged, with a bulbous, purple-veined
nose and watering eyes, slipped out of the gatehouse door, whilst the great, hollow-sounding
gate still shook behind me. He said:

"If you hurries up you'll see a bit of life.... Do you good. Condemned sermon. Being preached
in the chapel now; sheriffs and all. They swing tomorrow--three of them. Quick with the stumps."

He hurried me over the desolate mossy-green cobbles of the great solitary yard into a square,
tall, bare, whitewashed place. Already from the outside one caught a droning voice. There might
have been three hundred people there, boxed off in pews, with turnkeys at each end. A vast
king's arms, a splash of red and blue gilt, sprawled above a two-tiered pulpit that was like
the trunk of a large broken tree. The turnkey pulled my hat off, and nudged me into a box beside
the door.

"Kneel down," he whispered hoarsely.

I knelt. A man with a new wig was droning out words, waving his hands now and then from the
top of the tall pulpit. Beneath him a smaller man in an old wig was dozing, his head bent forward.
The place was dirty, and ill-lighted by the tall, grimy windows, heavily barred. A pair of
candles flickered beside the preacher's right arm....

"They that go down to the sea in ships, my poor brethren," he droned, "lying under the shadow..."

He directed his hands towards a tall deal box painted black, isolated in the centre of the
lower floor. A man with a red head sat in it, his arms folded; another had his arms covering
his head, which leant abjectly forward on the rail in front. There were large rusty gyves upon
his wrists.

"But observe, my poor friends," the chaplain droned on, "the psalmist saith, 'At the last He
shall bring them unto the desired haven.' Now..."

The turnkey whispered suddenly into my ear: "Them's the condemned he's preaching at, them in
the black pew. See Roguey Cullen wink at the woman prisoners up there in the gallery.... Him
with the red hair.... All swings to-morrow."

"After they have staggered and reeled to and fro, and been amazed... observe. After they have
been tempted; even after they have fallen...."

The sheriffs had their eyes decorously closed. The clerk reached up from below the preacher,
and snuffed one of the candles. The preacher paused to rearrange his shining wig. Little clouds
of powder flew out where he touched it. He struck his purple velvet cushion, and continued:

"At the last, I say, He shall bring them to the haven they had desired."

A jarring shriek rose out of the black pew, and an insensate jangling of irons rattled against
the hollow wood. The ironed man, whose head had been hidden, was writhing in an epileptic fit.
The governor began signalling to the jailers, and the whole dismal assembly rose to its feet,
and craned to get a sight. The jailers began hurrying them out of the building. The redheaded
man was crouching in the far corner of the black box.

The turnkey caught the end of my sleeve, and hurried me out of the door.

"Come away," he said. "Come out of it.... Damn my good nature."

We went swiftly through the tall, gloomy, echoing stone passages. All the time there was the
noise of the prisoners being marshalled somewhere into their distant yards and cells. We went
across the bottom of a well, where the weeping December light struck ghastly down on to the
stones, into a sort of rabbit-warren of black passages and descending staircases, a horror
of cold, solitude, and night. Iron door after iron door clanged to behind us in the stony blackness.
After an interminable traversing, the turnkey, still with his hand on my sleeve, jerked me
into my familiar cell. I hadn't thought to be glad to get back to that dim, frozen, damp-chilled
little hole; with its hateful stone walls, stone ceiling, stone floor, stone bed-slab, and
stone table; its rope mat, foul stable-blanket, its horrible sense of eternal burial, out of
sound, out of sight under a mined mountain of black stones. It was so tiny that the turnkey,
entering after me, seemed to be pressed close up to my chest, and so dark that I could not
see the colour of the dirty hair that fell matted from the bald patch on the top of his skull;
so familiar that I knew the feel of every little worming of rust on the iron candlestick. He
wiped his face with a brown rag of handkerchief, and said:

"Curse me if ever I go into that place again." After a time he added: "Unless 'tis a matter
of duty."

I didn't say anything; my nerves were still jangling to that shrieking, and to the clang of
the iron doors that had closed behind me. I had an irresistible impulse to get hold of the
iron candlestick and smash it home through the skull of the turnkey--as I had done to the men
who had killed Seraphina's father... to kill this man, then to creep along the black passages
and murder man after man beside those iron doors until I got to the open air.

He began again. "You'd think we'd get used to it--you'd think we would--but 'tis a strain for
us. You never knows what the prisoners will do at a scene like that there. It drives 'em mad.
Look at this scar. Machell the forger done that for me, 'fore he was condemned, after a sermon
like that--a quiet, gentlemanly man, much like you. Lord, yes, 'tis a strain...." He paused,
still wiping his face, then went on: "And I swear that when I sees them men sit there in that
black pew, an' hev heard the hammers going clack, clack on the scaffolding outside, and knew
that they hadn't no more chance than you have to get out of there..." He pointed his short
thumb towards the handkerchief of an opening, where the little blurr of blue light wavered
through the two iron frames crossed in the nine feet of well. "Lord, you never gets used to
it. You wants them to escape; 'tis in the air through the whole prison, even the debtors. I
tells myself again and again, 'You're a fool for your pains.' But it's the same with the others--my
mates. You can't get it out of your mind. That little kid now. I've seen children swing; but
that little kid--as sure to swing as what... as what you are...."

"You think I am going to swing?" I asked.

I didn't want to kill him any more; I wanted too much to hear him talk. I hadn't heard anything
for months and months of solitude, of darkness--on board the admiral's ship, stranded in the
guardship at Plymouth, bumping round the coast, and now here in Newgate. And it had been darkness
all the time. Jove! That Cuban time, with its movements, its pettiness, its intrigue, its warmth,
even its villainies showed plainly enough in the chill of that blackness. It had been romance,
that life.

Little, and far away, and irrevocably done with, it showed all golden. There wasn't any romance
where I lay then; and there had been irons on my wrists; gruff hatred, the darkness, and always
despair.

On board the flagship coming home I had been chained down in the cable-tier--a place where
I could feel every straining of the great ship. Once these had risen to a pandemonium, a frightful
tumult. There was a great gale outside. A sailor came down with a lanthorn, and tossed my biscuit
to me.

"You d------d pirate," he said, "maybe it's you saving us from drowning."

"Is the gale very bad?" I had called.

He muttered--and the fact that he spoke to me at all showed how great the strain of the weather
must have been to wring any words out of him:

"Bad--there's a large Indiaman gone. We saw her one minute and then..." He went away, muttering.

And suddenly the thought had come to me. What if the Indiaman were the Lion--the Lion with
Seraphina on board? The man would not speak to me when he came again. No one would speak to
me; I was a pirate who had fired on his own countrymen. And the thought had pursued me right
into Newgate--if she were dead; if I had taken her from that security, from that peace, to
end there.... And to end myself.

"Swing!" the turnkey said; "you'll swing right enough." He slapped the great key on his flabby
hand. "You can tell that by the signs. You, being an Admiralty case, ought to have been in
the Marshalsea. And you're ordered solitary cell, and I'm tipped the straight wink against
your speaking a blessed word to a blessed soul. Why don't they let you see an attorney? Why?
Because they mean you to swing."

I said, "Never mind that. Have you heard of a ship called the Lion? Can you find out about her?"

He shook his head cunningly, and did not answer. If the Lion had been here, I must have heard.
They couldn't have left me here.

I said, "For God's sake find out. Get me a shipping gazette."

He affected not to hear.

"There's money in plenty," I said.

He winked ponderously and began again. "Oh, you'll swing all right. A man with nothing against
him has a chance; with the rhino he has it, even if he's guilty. But you'll swing. Charlie,
who brought you back just now, had a chat with the 'Torney-General's devil's clerk's clerk,
while old Nog o' Bow Street was trying to read their Spanish. He says it's a Gov'nment matter.
They wants to hang you bad, they do, so's to go to the Jacky Spaniards and say, 'He were a
nob, a nobby nob.' (So you are, aren't you? One uncle an earl and t'other a dean, if so be
what they say's true.) 'He were a nobby nob and we swung 'im. Go you'n do likewise.' They want
a striking example t' keep the West India trade quiet..." He wiped his forehead and moved my
water jug of red earth on the dirty deal table under the window, for all the world like a host
in front of a guest. "They means you to swing," he said. "They've silenced the Thames Court
reporters. Not a noospaper will publish a correct report t'morrer. And you haven't see nobody,
nor you won't, not if I can help it."

He broke off and looked at me with an expression of candour.

"Mind you," he said, "I'm not uffish. To 'n ornery gentleman--of the road or what you will--I'm
not, if so be he's the necessary. I'd take a letter like another. But for you, no--fear. Not
that I've my knife into you. What I can do to make you comfor'ble I will do, both now an' hereafter.
But when I gets the wink, I looks after my skin. So'd any man. You don't see nobody, nor you
won't; nor your nobby relations won't have the word. Till the Hadmir'lty trile. Charlie says
it's unconstitutional, you ought to see your 'torney, if you've one, or your father's got one.
But Lor', I says, 'Charlie, if they wants it they gets it. This ain't no habeas carpis, give-the-man-a-chance
case. It's the Hadmir'lty. And not a man tried for piracy this thirty year. See what a show
it gives them, what bloody Radicle knows or keeres what the perceedin's should be? Who's a-goin'
t' make a question out of it? Go away,' says I to Charlie. And that's it straight."

He went towards the door, then turned.

"You should be in the Marshalsea common yard; even I knows that. But they've the wink there.
'Too full,' says they. Too full be d------d. I've know'd the time--after the Vansdell smash
it were--when they found room for three hundred more improvident debtors over and above what
they're charted for. Too full! Their common yard! They don't want you to speak to a soul, an'
you won't till this day week, when the Hadmir'lty Session is in full swing." He went out and
locked the door, snorting, "Too full at the Marshalsea!... Go away!"

"Find out about the Lion," I called, as the door closed.

It cleared the air for me, that speech. I understood that they wanted to hang me, and I wanted
not to be hung, desperately, from that moment. I had not much cared before; I had--call it,
moped. I had not really believed, really sensed it out. It isn't easy to conceive that one
is going to be hanged, I doubt if one does even with the rope round one's neck. I hadn't much
wanted to live, but now I wanted to fight--one good fight before I went under for good and
all, condemned or acquitted. There wasn't anything left for me to live for, Seraphina could
not be alive. The Lion must have been lost.

But I was going to make a fight for it; curse it, I was going to give them trouble. My "them"
was not so much the Government that meant to hang me as the unseen powers that suffered such
a state of things, that allowed a number of little meannesses, accidents, fatalities, to hang
me. I began to worry the turnkey. He gave me no help, only shreds of information that let me
see more plainly than ever how set "they" were on sacrificing me to their exigencies.

The whole West Indian trade in London was in an uproar over the Pirate Question and over the
Slave Question. Jamaica was still squealing for Separation before the premonitory grumbles
of Abolition. Horton Pen, over there, came back with astonishing clearness before me. I seemed
to hear old, wall-eyed, sandy-headed Macdonald, agitating his immense bulk of ill-fitting white
clothes in front of his newspaper, and bellowing in his ox-voice:

"Abolition, they give us Abolition... or ram it down our throats. They who haven't even the
spunk to rid us o' the d------d pirates, not the spunk to catch and hang one.... Jock, me lahd,
we's abolush them before they sail touch our neegurs.... Let them clear oor seas, let them
hang one pirate, and then talk."

I was the one they were going to hang, to consolidate the bond with the old island. The cement
wanted a little blood in the mixing. Damn them! I was going to make a fight; they had torn
me from Seraphina, to fulfill their own accursed ends. I felt myself grow harsh and strong,
as a tree feels itself grow gnarled by winter storms. I said to the turnkey again and again:

"Man, I will promise you a thousand pounds or a pension for life, if you will get a letter
through to my mother or Squire Rooksby of Horton."

He said he daren't do it; enough was known of him to hang him if he gave offence. His flabby
fingers trembled, and his eyes grew large with successive shocks of cupidity. He became afraid
of coming near me; of the strain of the temptation. On the next day he did not speak a word,
nor the next, nor the next. I began to grow horribly afraid of being hung. The day before the
trial arrived. Towards noon he flung the door open.

"Here's paper, here's pens," he said. "You can prepare your defence. You may write letters.
Oh, hell! why did not they let it come sooner, I'd have had your thousand pounds. I'll run
a letter down to your people fast as the devil could take it. I know a man, a gentleman of
the road. For twenty pun promised, split between us, he'll travel faster'n Turpin did to York."
He was waving a large sheet of newspaper agitatedly.

"What does it mean?" I asked. My head was whirling.

"Radical papers got a-holt of it," he said. "Trust them for nosing out. And the Government's
answering them. They say you're going to suffer for your crimes. Hark to this... um, um...
'The wretched felon now in Newgate will incur the just penalty...' Then they slaps the West
Indies in the face. 'When the planters threaten to recur to some other power for protection,
they, of course, believe that the loss of the colonies would be severely felt. But...'"

"The Lion's home," I said.

It burst upon me that she was--that she must be. Williams--or Sebright--he was the man, had
been speaking up for me. Or Seraphina had been to the Spanish ambassador.

She was back; I should see her. I started up.

"The Lion's home," I repeated.

The turnkey snarled, "She was posted as overdue three days ago."

I couldn't believe it was true.

"I saw it in the papers," he grumbled on. "I dursn't tell you." He continued violently, "Blow
my dickey. It would make a cat sick."

My sudden exaltation, my sudden despair, gave way to indifference.

"Oh, coming, coming!" he shouted, in answer to an immense bellowing cry that loomed down the
passage without.

I heard him grumble, "Of course, of course. I shan't make a penny." Then he caught hold of
my arm. "Here, come along, someone to see you in the press-yard."

He pulled me along the noisome, black warren of passages, slamming the inner door viciously
behind him.

The press-yard--the exercising ground for the condemned--was empty; the last batch had gone
out, my batch would be the next to come in, the turnkey said suddenly. It was a well of a place,
high black walls going up into the desolate, weeping sky, and quite tiny. At one end was a
sort of slit in the wall, closed with tall, immense windows. From there a faint sort of rabbit's
squeak was going up through the immense roll and rumble of traffic on the other side of the
wall. The turnkey pushed me towards it.

"Go on," he said. "I'll not listen; I ought to. But, curse me, I'm not a bad sort," he added
gloomily; "I dare say you'll make it worth my while."

I went and peered through the bars at a faint object pressed against other bars in just another
slit across a black passage.

"What, Jackie, boy; what, Jackie?" Blinking his eyes, as if the dim light were too strong for
them, a thin, bent man stood there in a brilliant new court coat. His face was meagre in the
extreme, the nose and cheekbones polished and transparent like a bigaroon cherry. A thin tuft
of reddish hair was brushed back from his high, shining forehead. It was my father. He exclaimed:

"What, Jackie, boy! How old you look!" then waved his arm towards me. "In trouble?" he said.
"You in trouble?"

He rubbed his thin hands together, and looked round the place with a cultured man's air of
disgust. I said, "Father!" and he suddenly began to talk very fast and agitatedly of what he
had been doing for me. My mother, he said, was crippled with rheumatism, and Rooksby and Veronica
on the preceding Thursday had set sail for Jamaica. He had read to my mother, beside her bed,
the newspaper containing an account of my case; and she had given him money, and he had started
with violent haste for London. The haste and the rush were still dazing him. He had lived down
there in the farmhouse beneath the downs, with the stackyards under his eyes, with his books
of verse and his few prints on the wall------My God, how it all came back to me.

In his disjointed speeches, I could see how exactly the same it all remained. The same old
surly man with a squint had driven him along the muddy roads in the same ancient gig, past
the bare elms, to meet the coach. And my father had never been in London since he had walked
the streets with the Prince Regent's friends.

Whilst he talked to me there, lines of verse kept coming to his lips; and, after the habitual
pleasure of the apt quotation, he felt acutely shocked at the inappropriateness of the place,
the press-yard, with the dim light weeping downwards between immensely high walls, and the
desultory snowflakes that dropped between us. And he had tried so hard, in his emergency, to
be practical. When he had reached London, before even attempting to see me, he had run from
minister to minister trying to influence them in my favour--and he reached me in Newgate with
nothing at all effected.

I seemed to know him then, so intimately, so much better than anything else in the world.

He began, "I had my idea in the up-coach last night. I thought, 'A very great personage was
indebted to me in the old days (more indebted than you are aware of, Johnnie). I will intercede
with him.' That was why my first step was to my old tailor's in Conduit Street. Because...
what is fit for a farm for a palace were low." He stopped, reflected, then said, "What is fit
for the farm for the palace were low."

He felt across his coat for his breast pocket. It was what he had done years and years ago,
and all these years between, inscribe ideas for lines of verse in his pocket-book. I said:

"You have seen the king?"

His face lengthened a little. "Not seen him. But I found one of the duke's secretaries, a pleasant
young fellow... not such as we used to be. But the duke was kind enough to interest himself.
Perhaps my name has lived in the land. I was called Curricle Kemp, as I may have told you,
because I drove a vermilion one with green and gilt wheels...."

His face, peering at me through the bars, had, for a moment, a flush of pride. Then he suddenly
remembered, and, as if to propitiate his own reproof, he went on:

"I saw the Secretary of State, and he assured me, very civilly, that not even the highest personage
in the land...." He dropped his voice, "Jackie, boy," he said, his narrow-lidded eyes peering
miserably across at me, "there's not even hope of a reprieve afterwards."

I leaned my face wearily against the iron bars. What, after all, was the use of fighting if
the Lion were not back?

Then, suddenly, as the sound of his words echoed down the bare, black corridors, he seemed
to realize the horror of it. His face grew absolutely white, he held his head erect, as if
listening to a distant sound. And then he began to cry--horribly, and for a long time.

It was I that had to comfort him. His head had bowed at the conviction of his hopeless uselessness;
all through his own life he had been made ineffectual by his indulgence in perfectly innocent,
perfectly trivial enjoyments, and now, in this extremity of his only son, he was rendered almost
fantastically of no avail.

"No, no, sir! You have done all that any one could; you couldn't break these walls down. Nothing
else would help."

Small, hopeless sobs shook him continually. His thin, delicate white fingers gripped the black
grille, with the convulsive grasp of a very weak man. It was more distressing to me than anything
I had ever seen or felt. The mere desire, the intense desire to comfort him, made me get a
grip upon myself again. And I remembered that, now that I could communicate with the outer
air, it was absolutely easy; he would save my life. I said:

"You have only to go to Clapham, sir."

And the moment I was in a state to command him, to direct him, to give him something to do,
he became a changed man. He looked up and listened. I told him to go to Major Cowper's. It
would be easy enough to find him at Clapham. Cowper, I remembered, could testify to my having
been seized by Tomas Castro. He had seen me fight on the decks. And what was more, he would
certainly know the addresses of Kingston planters, if any were in London. They could testify
that I had been in Jamaica all the while Nikola el Escoces was in Rio Medio. I knew there were
some. My father was fidgeting to be gone. He had his name marked for him, and a will directing
his own. He was not the same man. But I particularly told him to send me a lawyer first of all.

"Yes, yes!" he said, fidgeting to go, "to Major Cowper's. Let me write his address."

"And a solicitor," I said. "Send him to me on your way there."

"Yes, yes," he said, "I shall be able to be of use to the solicitor. As a rule, they are men
of no great perspicacity."

And he went hurriedly away.

The real torture, the agony of suspense began then. I steadied my nerves by trying to draw
up notes for my speech to the jury on the morrow. That was the turnkey's idea.

He said, "Slap your chest, 'peal to the honour of a British gent, and pitch it in strong."

It was not much good; I could not keep to any logical sequence of thought, my mind was forever
wandering to what my father was doing. I pictured him in his new blue coat, running agitatedly
through crowded streets, his coat-tails flying behind his thin legs. The hours dragged on,
and it was a matter of minutes. I had to hold upon the table edge to keep myself from raging
about the cell. I tried to bury myself again in the scheme for my defence. I wondered whom
my father would have found. There was a man called Cary who had gone home from Kingston. He
had a bald head and blue eyes; he must remember me. If he would corroborate! And the lawyer,
when he came, might take another line of defence. It began to fall dusk slowly, through the
small barred windows.

The entire night passed without a word from my father. I paced up and down the whole time,
composing speeches to the jury. And then the day broke. I calmed myself with a sort of frantic
energy.

Early the jailer came in, and began fussing about my cell.

"Case comes on about one," he said. "Grand jury at half after twelve. No fear they won't return
a true bill. Grand jury, five West India merchants. They means to have you. 'Torney-General,
S'lic'tor-General. S'r Robert Mead, and five juniors agin you... You take my tip. Throw yourself
on the mercy of the court, and make a rousing speech with a young 'ooman in it. Not that you'll
get much mercy from them. They Admir'lty jedges is all hangers. 'S we say, 'Oncet the anchor
goes up in the Old Bailey, there ain't no hope. We begins to clean out the c'ndemned cell,
here. Sticks the anchor up over their heads, when it is Hadmir'lty case,'" he commented.

I listened to him with strained attention. I made up my mind to miss not a word uttered that
day. It was my only chance.

"You don't know any one from Jamaica?" I asked.

He shook his bullet head, and tapped his purple nose. "Can't be done," he said. "You'd get
a ornery hallybi fer a guinea a head, but they'd keep out of this case. They've necks like
you and me."

Whilst he was speaking, the whole of the outer world, as far as it affected me, came suddenly
in upon me--that was what I meant to the great city that lay all round, the world, in the centre
of which was my cell. To the great mass, I was matter for a sensation; to them I might prove
myself beneficial in this business. Perhaps there were others who were thinking I might be
useful in one way or another. There were the ministers of the Crown, who did not care much
whether Jamaica separated or not. But they wanted to hang me because they would be able to
say disdainfully to the planters, "Separate if you like; we've done our duty, we've hanged a man."

All those people had their eyes on me, and they were about the only ones who knew of my existence.
That was the end of my Romance! Romance! The broadsheet sellers would see to it afterwards
with a "Dying confession."

CHAPTER FOUR

I never saw my father again until I was in the prisoner's anteroom at the Old Bailey. It was
full of lounging men, whose fleshy limbs bulged out against the tight, loud checks of their
coats and trousers. These were jailers waiting to bring in their prisoners. On the other side
of one black door the Grand Jury was deliberating on my case, behind another the court was
in waiting to try me. I was in a sort of tired lull. All night I had been pacing up and down,
trying to bring my brain to think of points--points in my defence. It was very difficult. I
knew that I must keep cool, be calm, be lucid, be convincing; and my brain had reeled at times,
even in the darkness of the cell. I knew it had reeled, because I remembered that once I had
fallen against the stone of one of the walls, and once against the door. Here, in the light,
with only a door between myself and the last scene, I regained my hold. I was going to fight
every inch from start to finish. I was going to let no chink of their armour go untried. I
was going to make a good fight. My teeth chattered like castanets, jarring in my jaws until
it was painful. But that was only with the cold.

A hubbub of expostulation was going on at the third door. My turnkey called suddenly:

"Let the genman in, Charlie. Pal o' ourn," and my father ran huntedly into the room. He began
an endless tale of a hackney coachman who had stood in front of the door of his coach to prevent
his number being taken; of a crowd of caddee-smashers, who had hustled him and filched his
purse. "Of course, I made a fight for it," he said, "a damn good fight, considering. It's in
the blood. But the watch came, and, in short--on such an occasion as this there is no time
for words--I passed the night in the watch-house. Many and many a night I passed there when
I and Lord------But I am losing time."

"You ain't fit to walk the streets of London alone, sir," the turnkey said.

My father gave him a corner of his narrow-lidded eyes. "My man," he said, "I walked the streets
with the highest in the land before your mother bore you in Bridewell, or whatever jail it was."

"Oh, no offence," the turnkey muttered.

I said, "Did you find Cowper, sir? Will he give evidence?"

"Jackie," he said agitatedly, as if he were afraid of offending me, "he said you had filched
his wife's rings."

That, in fact, was what Major Cowper had said--that I had dropped into their ship near Port
Royal Heads, and had afterwards gone away with the pirates who had filched his wife's rings.
My father, in his indignation, had not even deigned to ask him for the address of Jamaica planters
in London; and on his way back to find a solicitor he had come into contact with those street
rowdies and the watch. He had only just come from before the magistrates.

A man with one eye poked his head suddenly from behind the Grand Jury door. He jerked his head
in my direction.

"True bill against that 'ere," he said, then drew his head in again.

"Jackie, boy," my father said, putting a thin hand on my wrist, and gazing imploringly into
my eyes, "I'm... I'm ... I can't tell you how...."

I said, "It doesn't matter, father." I felt a foretaste of how my past would rise up to crush
me. Cowper had let that wife of his coerce him into swearing my life away. I remembered vividly
his blubbering protestations of friendship when I persuaded Tomas Castro to return him his
black deed-box with the brass handle, on that deck littered with rubbish.... "Oh, God bless
you, God bless you. You have saved me from starvation...." There had been tears in his old
blue eyes. "If you need it I will go anywhere... do anything to help you. On the honour of
a gentleman and a soldier." I had, of course, recommended his wife to give up her rings when
the pirates were threatening her in the cabin. The other door opened, another man said:

"Now, then, in with that carrion. D'you want to keep the judges waiting?"

I stepped through the door straight down into the dock; there was a row of spikes in the front
of it. I wasn't afraid; three men in enormous wigs and ermine robes faced me; four in short
wigs had their heads together like parrots on a branch. A fat man, bareheaded, with a gilt
chain round his neck, slipped from behind into a seat beside the highest placed judge. He was
wiping his mouth and munching with his jaws. On each side of the judges, beyond the short-wigged
assessors, were chairs full of ladies and gentlemen. They all had their eyes upon me. I saw
it all very plainly. I was going to see everything, to keep my eyes open, not to let any chance
escape. I wondered why a young girl with blue eyes and pink cheeks tittered and shrugged her
shoulders. I did not know what was amusing. What astonished me was the smallness, the dirt,
the want of dignity of the room itself. I thought they must be trying a case of my importance
there by mistake.

Presently I noticed a great gilt anchor above the judges' heads. I wondered why it was there,
until I remembered it was an Admiralty Court. I thought suddenly, "Ah! if I had thought to
tell my father to go and see if the Lion had come in in the night!"

A man was bawling out a number of names.... "Peter Plimley, gent., any challenge.... Lazarus
Cohen, merchant, any challenge...."

The turnkey beside me leant with his back against the spikes. He was talking to the man who
had called us in.

"Lazarus Cohen, West Indian merchant.... Lord, well, I'd challenge...."

The other man said, "S--sh."

"His old dad give me five shiners to put him up to a thing if I could," the turnkey said again.

I didn't catch his meaning until an old man with a very ragged gown was handing up a book to
a row of others in a box so near that I could almost have touched them. Then I realized that
the turnkey had been winking to me to challenge the jury. I called out at the highest of the
judges:

"I protest against that jury. It is packed. Half of them, at least, are West Indian merchants."

There was a stir all over the court. I realized then that what had seemed only a mass of stuffs
of some sort were human beings all looking at me. The judge I had called to opened a pair of
dim eyes upon me, clasped and unclasped his hands, very dry, ancient, wrinkled. The judge on
his right called angrily:

"Nonsense, it is too late.... They are being sworn. You should have spoken when the names were
read." Underneath his wig was an immensely broad face with glaring yellow eyes.

I said, "It is scandalous. You want to murder me, How should I know what you do in your courts?
I say the jury is packed."

The very old judge closed his eyes, opened them again, then gasped out:

"Silence. We are here to try you. This is a court of law."

The turnkey pulled my sleeve under cover of the planking. "Treat him civil," he whispered,
"Lord Justice Stowell of the Hadmir'lty. 'Tother's Baron Garrow of the Common Law; a beast;
him as hanged that kid. You can sass him; it doesn't matter."

Lord Stowell waved his hand to the clerk with the ragged gown; the book passed from hand to
hand along the faces of the jury, the clerk gabbling all the while. The old judge said suddenly,
in an astonishingly deep, majestic voice:

"Prisoner at the bar, you must understand that we are here to give you an impartial trial according
to the laws of this land. If you desire advice as to the procedure of this court you can have it."

I said, "I still protest against that Jury. I am an innocent man, and------"

He answered querulously, "Yes, yes, afterwards." And then creaked, "Now the indictment...."

Someone hidden from me by three barristers began to read in a loud voice not very easy to follow.
I caught:

"For that the said John Kemp, alias Nichols, alias Nikola el Escoces, alias el Demonio, alias
el Diabletto, on the twelfth of May last, did feloniously and upon the high seas piratically
seize a certain ship called the Victoria... um... um, the properties of Hyman Cohen and others...
and did steal and take therefrom six hundred and thirty barrels of coffee of the value of...
um... um... um... one hundred and one barrels of coffee of the value of... ninety-four half
kegs... and divers others..."

I gave an immense sigh.... That was it, then. I had heard of the Victoria; it was when I was
at Horton that the news of her loss reached us. Old Macdonald had sworn; it was the day a negro
called Apollo had taken to the bush. I ought to be able to prove that. Afterwards, one of the
judges asked me if I pleaded guilty or not guilty. I began a long wrangle about being John
Kemp but not Nikola el Escoces. I was going to fight every inch of the way. They said:

"You will have your say afterwards. At present, guilty or not guilty?"

I refused to plead at all; I was not the man. The third judge woke up, and said hurriedly:

"That is a plea of not guilty, enter it as such." Then he went to sleep again. The young girl
on the bench beside him laughed joyously, and Mr. Baron Garrow nodded round at her, then snapped
viciously at me:

"You don't make your case any better by this sort of foolery." His eyes glared at me like an
awakened owl's.

I said, "I'm fighting for my neck... and you'll have to fight, too, to get it."

The old judge said angrily, "Silence, or you will have to be removed."

I said, "I am fighting for my life."

There was a sort of buzz all round the court.

Lord Stowell said, "Yes, yes;" and then, "Now, Mr. King's Advocate, I suppose Mr. Alfonso Jervis
opens for you."

A dusty wig swam up from just below my left hand, almost to a level with the dock.

The old judge shut his eyes, with an air of a man who is going a long journey in a post-chaise.
Mr. Baron Garrow dipped his pen into an invisible ink-pot, and scratched it on his desk. A
long story began to drone from under the wig, an interminable farrago of dull nonsense, in
a hypochondriacal voice; a long tale about piracy in general; piracy in the times of the Greeks,
piracy in the times of William the Conqueror... pirata nequissima Eustachio, and thanking God
that a case of the sort had not been heard in that court for an immense lapse of years. Below
me was an array of wigs, on each side a compressed mass of humanity, squeezed so tight that
all the eyeballs seemed to be starting out of the heads towards me. From the wig below, a translation
of the florid phrases of the Spanish papers was coming:

"His very Catholic Majesty, out of his great love for his ancient friend and ally, his Britannic
Majesty, did surrender the body of the notorious El Demonio, called also..."

I began to wonder who had composed that precious document, whether it was the Juez de la Primera
Instancia, bending his yellow face and sloe-black eyes above the paper, over there in Havana--or
whether it was O'Brien, who was dead since the writing.

All the while the barrister was droning on. I did not listen because I had heard all that before--in
the room of the Judge of the First Instance at Havana. Suddenly appearing behind the backs
of the row of gentlefolk on the bench was the pale, thin face of my father. I wondered which
of his great friends had got him his seat. He was nodding to me and smiling faintly. I nodded,
too, and smiled back. I was going to show them that I was not cowed. The voice of the barrister
said:

"M'luds and gentlemen of the jury, that finishes the Spanish evidence, which was taken on commission
on the island of Cuba. We shall produce the officer of H. M. S. Elephant, to whom he was surrendered
by the Spanish authorities at Havana, thus proving the prisoner to be the pirate Nikola, and
no other. We come, now, to the specific instance, m'luds and gentlemen, an instance as vile..."

It was some little time before I had grasped how absolutely the Spanish evidence damned me.
It was as if, once I fell into the hands of the English officer on Havana quays, the identity
of Nikola could by no manner of means be shaken from round my neck. The barrister came to the
facts.

A Kingston ship had been boarded... and there was the old story over again. I seemed to see
the Rio Medio schooner rushing towards where I and old Cowper and old Lumsden looked back from
the poop to see her come alongside; the strings of brown pirates pour in empty-handed, and
out laden. Only in the case of the Victoria there were added the ferocities of "the prisoner
at the bar, m'luds and gentlemen of the jury, a fiend in human shape, as we shall prove with
the aid of the most respectable witnesses...."

The man in the wig sat down, and, before I understood what was happening, a fat, rosy man--the
Attorney-General--whose cheerful gills gave him a grotesque resemblance to a sucking pig, was
calling "Edward Sadler," and the name blared like sudden fire leaping up all over the court.
The Attorney-General wagged his gown into a kind of bunch behind his hips, and a man, young,
fair, with a reddish beard and a shiny suit of clothes, sprang into a little box facing the
jury. He bowed nervously in several directions, and laughed gently; then he looked at me and
scowled. The Attorney-General cleared his throat pleasantly...

"Mr. Edward Sadler, you were, on May 25th, chief mate of the good ship Victoria...."

The fair man with the beard told his story, the old story of the ship with its cargo of coffee
and dye-wood; its good passage past the Gran Caymanos; the becalming off the Cuban shore in
latitude so and so, and the boarding of a black schooner, calling itself a Mexican privateer.
I could see all that.

"The prisoner at the bar came alongside in a boat, with seventeen Spaniards," he said, in a
clear, expressionless voice, looking me full in the face.

I called out to the old judge, "My Lord... I protest. This is perjury. I was not the man. It
Was Nichols, a Nova Scotian."

Mr. Baron Garrow roared, "Silence," his face suffused with blood.

Old Lord Stowell quavered, "You must respect the procedure...."

"Am I to hear my life sworn away without a word?" I asked.

He drew himself frostily into his robes. "God forbid," he said; "but at the proper time you
can cross-examine, if you think fit."

The Attorney-General smiled at the jury-box and addressed himself to Sadler, with an air of
patience very much tried:

"You swear the prisoner is the man?"

The fair man turned his sharp eyes upon me. I called, "For God's sake, don't perjure yourself.
You are a decent man."

"No, I won't swear," he said slowly. "I think he was. He had his face blacked then, of course.
When I had sight of him at the Thames Court I thought he was; and seeing the Spanish evidence,
I don't see where's the room...."

"The Spanish evidence is part of the plot," I said.

The Attorney-General snickered. "Go on, Mr. Sadler," he said. "Let's have the rest of the plot
unfolded."

A juryman laughed suddenly, and resumed an abashed sudden silence. Sadler went on to tell the
old story.... I saw it all as he spoke; only gaunt, shiny-faced, yellow Nichols was chewing
and hitching his trousers in place of my Tomas, with his sanguine oaths and jerked gestures.
And there was Nichol's wanton, aimless ferocity.

"He had two pistols, which he fired twice each, while we were hoisting the studding-sails by
his order, to keep up with the schooner. He fired twice into the crew. One of the men hit died
afterwards...."

Later, another vessel, an American, had appeared in the offing, and the pirates had gone in
chase of her. He finished, and Lord Stowell moved one of his ancient hands. It was as if a
gray lizard had moved on his desk, a little toward me.

"Now, prisoner," he said.

I drew a deep breath. I thought for a minute that, after all, there was a little fair play
in the game--that I had a decent, fair, blue-eyed man in front of me. He looked hard at me;
I hard at him; it was as if we were going to wrestle for a belt. The young girl on the bench
had her lips parted and leant forward, her head a little on one side.

I said, "You won't swear I was the man... Nikola el Escoces?"

He looked meditatively into my eyes; it was a duel between us.

"I won't swear," he said. "You had your face blacked, and didn't wear a beard."

A soft growth of hair had come out over my cheeks whilst I lay in prison. I rubbed my hand
against it, and thought that he had drawn first blood.

"You must not say 'you,'" I said. "I swear I was not the man. Did he talk like me?"

"Can't say that he did," Sadler answered, moving from one foot to the other.

"Had he got eyes like me, or a nose, or a mouth?"

"Can't say," he answered again. "His face was blacked."

"Didn't he talk Blue Nose--in the Nova Scotian way?"

"Well, he did," Sadler assented slowly. "But any one could for a disguise. It's as easy as..."

Beside me, the turnkey whispered suddenly, "Pull him up; stop his mouth."

I said, "Wasn't he an older man? Didn't he look between forty and fifty?"

"What do you look like?" the chief mate asked.

"I'm twenty-four," I answered; "I can prove it."

"Well, you look forty and older," he answered negligently. "So did he."

His cool, disinterested manner overwhelmed me like the blow of an immense wave; it proved so
absolutely that I had parted with all semblance of youth. It was something added to the immense
waste of waters between myself and Seraphina; an immense waste of years. I did not ask much
of the next witness; Sadler had made me afraid. Septimus Hearn, the master of the Victoria,
was a man with eyes as blue and as cold as bits of round blue pebble; a little goat's beard,
iron-gray; apple-coloured cheeks, and small gold earrings in his ears. He had an extraordinarily
mournful voice, and a retrospective melancholy of manner. He was just such another master of
a trader as Captain Lumsden had been, and it was the same story over again, with little different
touches, the hard blue eyes gazing far over the top of my head; the gnarled hands moving restlessly
on the rim of his hat.

"Afterwards the prisoner ordered the steward to give us a drink of brandy. A glass was offered
me, but I refused to drink it, and he said, 'Who is it that refuses to drink a glass of brandy?'
He asked me what countryman I was, and if I was an American."

There were two others from the unfortunate Victoria--a Thomas Davis, boatswain, who had had
one of Nikola's pistol-balls in his hip; and a sort of steward--I have forgotten his name--who
had a scar of a cutlass wound on his forehead.

It was horrible enough; but what distressed me more was that I could not see what sort of impression
I was making. Once the judge who was generally asleep woke up and began to scratch furiously
with his quill; once three of the assessors--the men in short wigs--began an animated conversation;
one man with a thin, dark face laughed noiselessly, showing teeth like a white waterfall. A
man in the body of the court on my left had an enormous swelling, blood-red, and looking as
if a touch must burst it, under his chin; at one time he winked his eyes furiously for a long
time on end. It seemed to me that something in the evidence must be affecting all these people.
The turnkey beside me said to his mate, "Twig old Justice Best making notes in his stud-calendar,"
and suddenly the conviction forced itself upon me that the whole thing, the long weary trial,
the evidence, the parade of fairness, was being gone through in a spirit of mockery, as a mere
formality; that the judges and the assessors, and the man with the goitre took no interest
whatever in my case. It was a foregone conclusion.

A tiny, fair man, with pale hair oiled and rather long for those days, and with green and red
signet rings on fingers that he was forever running through that hair, came mincingly into
the witness-box. He held for a long time what seemed to be an amiable conversation with Sir
Robert Gifford, a tall, portentous-looking man, who had black beetling brows, like tufts of
black horsehair sticking in the crannies of a cliff. The conversation went like this:

"You are the Hon. Thomas Oldham?"

"Yes, yes."

"You know Kingston, Jamaica, very well?"

"I was there four years--two as the secretary to the cabinet of his Grace the Duke of Manchester,
two as civil secretary to the admiral on the station."

"You saw the prisoner?"

"Yes, three times."

I drew an immense breath; I thought for a moment that they had delivered themselves into my
hands. The thing must prove of itself that I had been in Jamaica, not in Rio Medio, through
those two years. My heart began to thump like a great solemn drum, like Paul's bell when the
king died--solemn, insistent, dominating everything. The little man was giving an account of
the "'bawminable" state of confusion into which the island's trade was thrown by the misdeeds
of a pirate called Nikola el Demonio.

"I assure you, my luds," he squeaked, turning suddenly to the judges, "the island was wrought
up into a pitch of... ah... almost disloyalty. The... ah... planters were clamouring for...
ah... separation. And, to be sure, I trust you'll hang the prisoner, for if you don't..."

Lord Stowell shivered, and said suddenly with haste, "Mr. Oldham, address yourself to Sir Robert."

I was almost happy; the cloven hoof had peeped so damningly out. The little man bowed briskly
to the old judge, asked for a chair, sat himself down, and arranged his coat-tails.

"As I was saying," he prattled on, "the trouble and the worry that this man caused to His Grace,
myself, and Admiral Rowley were inconceivable. You have no idea, you... ah... can't conceive.
And no wonder, for, as it turned out, the island was simply honeycombed by his spies and agents.
You have no idea; people who seemed most respectable, people we ourselves had dealings with..."

He rattled on at immense length, the barrister taking huge pinches of yellow snuff, and smiling
genially with the air of a horse-trainer watching a pony go faultlessly through difficult tricks.
Every now and then he flicked his whip.

"Mr. Oldham, you saw the prisoner three times. If it does not overtax your memory pray tell
us." And the little creature pranced off in a new direction.

"Tax my memory! Gad, I like that. You remember a man who has had your blood as near as could
be, don't you?"

I had been looking at him eagerly, but my interest faded away now. It was going to be the old
confusing of my identity with Nikola's. And yet I seemed to know the little beggar's falsetto;
it was a voice one does not forget.

"Remember!" he squeaked. "Gad, gentlemen of the jury, he came as near as possible------You
have no idea what a ferocious devil it is."

I was wondering why on earth Nichols should have wanted to kill such a little thing. Because
it was obvious that it must have been Nichols.

"As near as possible murdered myself and Admiral Rowley and a Mr. Topnambo, a most enlightened
and loyal... ah... inhabitant of the island, on the steps of a public inn."

I had it then. It was the little man David Mac-donald had rolled down the steps with, that
night at the Ferry Inn on the Spanish Town road.

"He was lying in wait for us with a gang of assassins. I was stabbed on the upper lip. I lost
so much blood... had to be invalided... cannot think of horrible episode without shuddering."

He had seen me then, and when Ramon ("a Spaniard who was afterwards proved to be a spy of El
Demonio's--of the prisoner's. He was hung since") had driven me from the place of execution
after the hanging of the seven pirates; and he had come into Ramon's store at the moment when
Carlos ("a piratical devil if ever there was one," the little man protested) had drawn me into
the back room, where Don Balthasar and O'Brien and Seraphina sat waiting. The men who were
employed to watch Ramon's had never seen me leave again, and afterwards a secret tunnel was
discovered leading down to the quay.

"This, apparently, was the way by which the prisoner used to arrive and quit the island secretly,"
he finished his evidence in chief, and the beetle-browed, portly barrister sat down. I was
not so stupid but what I could see a little, even then, how the most innocent events of my
past were going to rise up and crush me; but I was certain I could twist him into admitting
the goodness of my tale which hadn't yet been told. He knew I had been in Jamaica, and, put
what construction he liked on it, he would have to admit it. I called out:

"Thank God, my turn's come at last!"

The faces of the Attorney-General, the King's Advocate, Sir Robert Gifford, Mr. Lawes, Mr.
Jervis, of all the seven counsel that were arrayed to crush me, lengthened into simultaneous
grins, varying at the jury-box. But I didn't care; I grinned, too. I was going to show them.

It was as if I flew at the throat of that little man. It seemed to me that I must be able to
crush a creature whose malice was as obvious and as nugatory as the green and red rings that
he exhibited in his hair every few minutes. He wanted to show the jury that he had rings; that
he was a mincing swell; that I hadn't and that I was a bloody pirate. I said:

"You know that during the whole two years Nichols was at Rio I was an improver at Horton Pen
with the Macdonalds, the agents of my brother-in-law, Sir Ralph Rooksby. You must know these
things. You were one of the Duke of Manchester's spies."

We used to call the Duke's privy council that. "I certainly know nothing of the sort," he said,
folding his hands along the edge of the witness-box, as if he had just thought of exhibiting
his rings in that manner. He was abominably cool. I said:

"You must have heard of me. The Topnambos knew me."

"The Topnambos used to talk of a blackguard with a name like Kemp who kept himself mighty out
of the way in the Vale."

"You knew I was on the island," I pinned him down.

"You used to come to the island," he corrected. "I've just explained how. But you were not
there much, or we should have been able to lay hands on you. We wanted to. There was a warrant
out after you tried to murder us. But you had been smuggled away by Ramon."

I tried again:

"You have heard of my brother-in-law, Sir Ralph Rooksby?"

I wanted to show that, if I hadn't rings, I had relations.

"Nevah heard of the man in my life," he said.

"He was the largest land proprietor on the island," I said.

"Dessay," he said; "I knew forty of the largest. Mostly sharpers in the boosing-kens." He yawned.

I said viciously:

"It was your place to know the island. You knew Horton Pen--the Macdonalds?"

The face of jolly old Mrs. Mac. came to my mind--the impeccable, Scotch, sober respectability.

"Oh, I knew the Macdonalds," he said--"of them. The uncle was a damn rebellious, canting, planting
Scotchman. Horton Pen was the centre of the Separation Movement. We could have hung him if
we'd wanted to. The nephew was the writer of an odious blackmailing print. He calumniated all
the decent, loyal inhabitants. He was an agent of you pirates, too. We arrested him--got his
papers; know all about your relations with him."

I said, "That's all nonsense. Let us hear"--the Attorney-General had always said that--"what
you know of myself."

"What I know of you," he sniffed, "if it's a pleasuah, was something like this. You came to
the island in a mysterious way, gave out that you were an earl's son, and tried to get into
the very excellent society of... ah... people like my friends, the Topnambos. But they would
not have you, and after that you kept yourself mighty close; no one ever saw you but once or
twice, and then it was riding about at night with that humpbacked scoundrel of a blackmailer.

"You, in fact, weren't on the island at all, except when you came to spy for the pirates. You
used to have long confabulations with that scoundrel Ramon, who kept you posted about the shipping.
As for the blackmailer, with the humpback, David Macdonald, you kept him, you... ah... subsidized
his filthy print to foment mutiny and murder among the black fellows, and preach separation.
You wanted to tie our hands, and prevent our... ah... prosecuting the preventive measures against
you. When you found that it was no good you tried to murder the admiral and myself, and that
very excellent man Topnambo, coming from a ball. After that you were seen encouraging seven
of your... ah... pirate fellows whom we were hanging, and you drove off in haste with your
agent, Ramon, before we could lay hands on you, and vanished from the island."

I didn't lose my grip; I went at him again, blindly, as if I were boxing with my eyes full
of blood, but my teeth set tight. I said:

"You used to buy things yourself of old Ramon; bought them for the admiral to load his frigates
with; things he sold at Key West."

"That was one of the lies your scoundrel David Macdonald circulated against us."

"You bought things... even whilst you were having his store watched."

"Upon my soul!" he said.

"You used to buy things...." I pinned him. He looked suddenly at the King's Advocate, then
dropped his eyes.

"Nevah bought a thing in my life," he said.

I knew the man had; Ramon had told me of his buying for the admiral more than three hundred
barrels of damaged coffee for thirty pounds. I was in a mad temper. I smashed my hand upon
the spikes of the rail in front of me, and although I saw hands move impulsively towards me
all over the court, I did not know that my arm was impaled and the blood running down.

"Perjurer," I shouted, "Ramon himself told me."

"Ah, you were mighty thick with Ramon..." he said.

I let him stand down. I was done. Someone below said harshly, "That closes our case, m'luds,"
and the court rustled all over. Old Lord Stowell in front of me shivered a little, looked at
the window, and then said:

"Prisoner at the bar, our procedure has it that if you wish to say anything, you may now address
the jury. Afterwards, if you had a counsel, he could call and examine your witnesses, if you
have any."

It was growing very dark in the court. I began to tell my story; it was so plain, so evident,
it shimmered there before me... and yet I knew it was so useless.

I remembered that in my cell I had reasoned out that I must be very constrained; very lucid
about the opening. "On such and such a day I landed at Kingston, to become an improver on the
estate of my brother-in-law. He is Sir Ralph Rooksby of Horton Priory in Kent." I did keep
cool; I was lucid; I spoke like that. I had my eyes fixed on the face of the young girl upon
the bench. I remember it so well. Her eyes were fixed, fascinated, upon my hand. I tried to
move it, and found that it was stuck upon the spike on which I had jammed it. I moved it carelessly
away, and only felt a little pain, as if from a pin-prick; but the blood was dripping on to
the floor, pat, pat. Later on, a man lit the candles on the judge's desk, and the court looked
different. There were deep shadows everywhere; and the illuminated face of Lord Stowell looked
grimmer, less kind, more ancient, more impossible to bring a ray of sympathy to. Down below,
the barristers of the prosecution leaned back with their arms all folded, and the air of men
resting in an interval of cutting down a large tree. The barristers who were, merely listeners
looked at me from time to time. I heard one say, "That man ought to have his hand bound up."
I was telling the story of my life, that was all I could do.

"As for Ramon, how could I know he was in the pay of the pirates, even if he were? I swear
I did not know. Everyone on the island had dealings with him, the admiral himself. That is
not calumny. On my honour, the admiral did have dealings. Some of you have had dealings with
forgers, but that does not make you forgers."

I warmed to it; I found words. I was telling the story for that young girl. Suddenly I saw
the white face of my father peep at me between the head of an old man with an enormous nose,
and a stout lady in a brown cloak that had a number of little watchmen's capes. He smiled suddenly,
and nodded again and again, opened his eyes, shut them; furtively waved a hand. It distracted
me, threw me off my balance, my coolness was gone. It was as if something had snapped. After
that I remembered very little; I think I may have quoted "The Prisoner of Chillon," because
he put it into my head.

I seemed to be back again in Cuba. Down below me the barristers were talking. The King's Advocate
pulled out a puce-coloured bandanna, and waved it abroad preparatorily to blowing his nose.
A cloud of the perfume of a West Indian bean went up from it, sweet and warm. I had smelt it
last at Rio, the sensation was so strong that I could not tell where I was.

The candles made a yellow glow on the judge's desk; but it seemed to be the blaze of light
in the cell where Nichols and the Cuban had fenced. I thought I was back in Cuba again. The
people in the court disappeared in the deepening shadows. At times I could not speak. Then
I would begin again.

If there were to be any possibility of saving my life, I had to tell what I had been through--and
to tell it vividly--I had to narrate the story of my life; and my whole life came into my mind.
It was Seraphina who was the essence of my life; who spoke with the voice of all Cuba, of all
Spain, of all Romance. I began to talk about old Don Balthasar Riego. I began to talk about
Manuel-del-Popolo, of his red shirt, his black eyes, his mandolin; I saw again the light of
his fires flicker on the other side of the ravine in front of the cave.

And I rammed all that into my story, the story I was telling to that young girl. I knew very
well that I was carrying my audience with me; I knew how to do it, I had it in the blood. The
old pale, faded, narrow-lidded father who was blinking and nodding at me had been one of the
best raconteurs that ever was. I knew how. In the black shadows of the wall of the court I
could feel the eyes upon me; I could see the parted lips of the young girl as she leaned further
towards me. I knew it because, when one of the barristers below raised his voice, someone hissed
"S--sh" from the shadows. And suddenly it came into my head, that even if I did save my life
by talking about these things, it would be absolutely useless. I could never go back again;
never be the boy again; never hear the true voice of the Ever Faithful Island. What did it
matter even if I escaped; even if I could go back? The sea would be there, the sky, the silent
dim hills, the listless surge; but I should never be there, I should be altered for good and
all. I should never see the breathless dawn in the pondwater of Havana harbour, never be there
with Seraphina close beside me in the little drogher. All that remained was to see this fight
through, and then have done with fighting. I remember the intense bitterness of that feeling
and the oddity of it all; of the one "I" that felt like that, of the other that was raving
in front of a lot of open-eyed idiots, three old judges, and a young girl. And, in a queer
way, the thoughts of the one "I" floated through into the words of the other, that seemed to
be waving its hands in its final struggle, a little way in front of me.

"Look at me... look at what they have made of me, one and the other of them. I was an innocent
boy. What am I now? They have taken my life from me, let them finish it how they will, what
does it matter to me, what do I care?"

There was a rustle of motion all round the court. On board Rowley's flagship the heavy irons
had sawed open my wrists. I hadn't been ironed in Newgate, but the things had healed up very
little. I happened to look down at my claws of hands with the grime of blood that the dock
spikes had caused.

"What sort of a premium is it that you set on sticking to the right? Is this how you are going
to encourage the others like me? What do I care about your death? What's life to me? Let them
get their scaffold ready. I have suffered enough to be put out of my misery. God, I have suffered
enough with one and another. Look at my hands, I say. Look at my wrists, and say if I care
any more." I held my ghastly paws high, and the candle light shone upon them.

Out of the black shadows came shrieks of women and curses. I saw my young girl put her hands
over her face and slip slowly, very slowly, from her chair, down out of sight. People were
staggering in different directions. I had had more to say, but I forgot in my concern for the
young girl. The turnkey pulled my sleeve and said:

"I say, that ain't true, is it, it ain't true?" Because he seemed not to want it to have been
true, I glowed for a moment with the immense pride of my achievement. I had made them see things.

A minute after, I understood how futile it was. I was not a fool even in my then half-mad condition.
The real feeling of the place came back upon me, the "Court of Law" of it. The King's Advocate
was whispering to the Attorney-General, he motioned with his hand, first in my direction, then
towards the jury; then they both laughed and nodded. They knew the ropes too well for me, and
there were seven West India merchants up there who would remember their pockets in a minute.
But I didn't care. I had made them see things.

CHAPTER FIVE

I had shot my bolt and I was going to die; I could see it in the way the King's Advocate tossed
his head back, fluttered his bands, looked at the jury-box, and began to play with the seals
on his fob. The court had resumed its stillness. A man in some sort of livery passed a square
paper to the Lord Mayor, the Lord Mayor passed it to Lord Stowell, who opened it with a jerking
motion of an ancient fashion that impressed me immensely. It was as if I, there at the end
of my life, were looking at a man opening a letter of the reign of Queen Anne. The shadows
of his ancient, wrinkled face changed as he read, raising his eyebrows and puckering his mouth.
He handed the unfolded paper to Mr. Baron Garrow, then with one wrinkled finger beckoned the
Attorney-General to him. The third judge was still asleep.

"What the devil's this?" the turnkey beside me said to his companion.

I was in a good deal of pain, and felt sickly that every pulse of my heart throbbed in my mangled
hand. The other spat straight in front of him.

"Damme if I know," he said. "This cursed business ought to have been over and done with an
hour agone. I told Jinks to have my rarebit and noggin down by the gate-house fire at half-past
five, and it's six now."

They began an interminable argument under their breaths.

"It's that wager of Lord March's... run a mile, walk a mile, eat five pounds of mutton, drink
five pints of claret. No, it ain't.. Medmenham coach ain't in yet... roads too heavy.... It
is. What else would stop the Court at this time of night? It isn't, or Justice Best 'd be awake
and hedging his bets."

In a dizzy way I noted the Attorney-General making his way carefully back between the benches
to his knot of barristers, and their wigs went all together in a bunch like ears of corn drawn
suddenly into a sheaf. The heads of the other barristers were like unreaped ears. A man with
a face like a weasel's called to a man with a face like a devil's--he was leaving the court--something
about an ambassador. The other stopped, turned, and deposited his bag again. I heard the deep
voice of Sir Robert Gifford say: "What!... Never!... too infamous..." and then the interest
and the light seemed to flicker out together. I could hardly see. Voices called out to each
other, harsh, dry, as if their owners had breathed nothing but dust for years and years.

One loud one barked, "You can't hear him, m'luds; in Rex v. Marsupenstein...."

A lot began calling all together, "Ah, but that was different, Mr. Attorney. You couldn't subpoena
him, he being in the position of extra lege commune. But if he offers a statement...."

The candles seemed to be waving deliberately like elm-tops in a high wind.

Someone called, "Clerk, fetch me volume xiii.... I think we shall find there.... You recollect
the case of Hildeshein v. Roe.... Wasn't it Hildegaulen and another, m'lud?"... "I tried the
case myself. The Prussian Plenipotentiary...."

I wanted to call out to them that it was not worth while to try their dry throats any more;
that having shot my bolt, I gave in. But I could not think of any words, I was so tired. "I
didn't sleep at all last night," I found myself saying to myself.

The sleeping judge woke up suddenly and snarled, "Why in Heaven's name don't we get on? We
shall be all night. Let him call the second name on the list. We can take the Spanish ambassador
when you have settled. For my part I think we ought to hear him...."

Lord Stowell said suddenly, "Prisoner at the bar, some gentlemen have volunteered statements
on your behalf. If you wish it, they can be called."

I didn't answer; I did not understand; I wanted to tell him I did not care, because the Lion
was posted as overdue and Seraphina was drowned. The Court seemed to be moving slowly up and
down in front of me like the deck of a ship. I thought I was bound again, and on the sofa in
the gorgeous cabin of the Madre-de-Dios. Someone seemed to be calling, "Prisoner at the bar...
Prisoner at the bar...." It was as if the candles had been lit in front of the Madonna with
the pink child, only she had a gilt anchor instead of the spiky gilt glory above her head.
Somebody was saying, "Hello there.... Hold up!... Here, bring a chair,..." and there were arms
around me. Afterwards I sat down. A very old judge's voice said something rather kindly, I
thought. I knew it was the very old judge, because he was called the star of Cuban law. Someone
would be bending over me soon, with a lanthorn, and I should be wiping the flour out of my
eyes and blinking at the red velvet and gilding of the cabin ceiling. In a minute Carlos and
Castro would come... or was it O'Brien who would come? No, O'Brien was dead; stabbed, with
a knife in his neck; the blood was still sticky between my first and second fingers. I could
feel it. I ought to have been allowed to wash my hands before I was tried; or was it before
I spoke to the admiral? One would not speak to a man with hands like that.

A loud, high-pitched voice called from up in the air, "I will give any of you gentlemen of
the robe down there fifty pounds to conduct the remainder of the case for him. I am the prisoner's
father."

My father's voice broke the spell. I was in the court; the candles were still burning; all
the faces, lit up or in the shadow, were bunched together in little groups; hands waved. The
barrister whose face was like the devil's under his wig held in his hands the paper that had
been handed to Lord Stowell; my father was talking to him from the bench. The barrister, tall,
his robes old and ragged, silhouetted against the light, glanced down the paper, fluttered
it in his hand, nodded to my father, and began a grotesque, nasal drawl:

"M'luds, I will conduct the case for the prisoner, if your lordships will bear with me a little.
He obviously can't call his own witnesses. If he has been treated as he says, it has been one
of the most abominable..."

Old Lord Stowell said, "Ch't, ch't, Mr. Walker; you know you must not make a speech for the
prisoner. Call your witness. It is all that is needed."

I wondered what he meant by that. The barrister was calling a man of the name of Williams.
I seemed to know the name. I seemed to know the man, too.

"Owen Williams, Master of the ship Lion.... Coffee and dye-wood.... Just come in under a jury-rig.
Had been dismasted and afterwards becalmed. Heard of this trial from the pilot in Graves-end.
Had taken post-chaises..."

I only heard snatches of his answers.

"On the twenty-fifth of August last I was close in with the Cuban coast.... The mate, Sebright,
got boiling water for them.... Afterwards a heavy fog. They boarded us in many boats...." He
was giving all the old evidence over again, fastening another stone around my neck. But suddenly
he said: "This gentleman came alongside in a leaky dinghy. A dead shot. He saved all our lives."

His bullet-head, the stare of his round blue eyes seemed to draw me out of a delirium. I called
out:

"Williams, for God's sake, Williams, where is Seraphina? Did she come with you?" There was
an immense roaring in my head, and the ushers were shouting, "Silence! Silence!" I called out
again.

