 In proportion as she grew older, this mischievous habit increased upon
her; and when she was big enough to go a visiting, she indulged it abroad with as much freedom
as she had been used to do at home; so that, in a short time, there was scarcely a young miss
or master in the neighbourhood whose character she had not attempted to injure. What made her
slanders the more odious was, that she generally vented them under a pretence of the greatest
friendship and respect for the persons to whom she related them, and with great seeming pity
for those whose reputation they were intended to destroy. She had likewise the malicious cunning
to say many trifling things in praise of the objects of her censure; that by thus assuming
an appearance of the strictest impartiality, and of the sincerest good nature, she might more
easily gain credit to the bad things she said afterwards. By such artifices as these she frequently
succeeded with the innocent and the unwary, and set one acquaintance and even one friend against
another, without any sort of advantage to herself but the mere pleasure of making mischief.
Another trick which she often employed for that purpose, was to examine into a young gentleman
or lady's constitutional foibles (for we all have some) and when she had discovered these,
to go immediately to the person and tell him or her, that master or miss such a one had publickly
ridiculed him for those very failings; by these means she was almost certain to be believed
without any farther inquiry; for every one, even upon the slightest hint, will readily suspect
that those things have been said of him, which he most wishes to be concealed, because he is
conscious they are really true; he will seldom trouble himself to inquire into the veracity
of the tale bearer, lest he should be reduced to the necessity of defending himself on his
weakest side. For a similar reason, when Miss Abigail had a mind to flatter any person (which
she frequently would, to answer the purposes of her malice) she always commended him for those
particular good qualities, or accomplishments which she knew he most valued himself for, or
chiefly wished to have the credit of; because she was sensible that by this method she effectually
retained his own vanity as her advocate for whatever she said afterwards. Nay, I have been
informed by one who knew her perfectly well, that, young as she was, she sometimes carried
her artifice so far as to begin a dispute with the person she intended to deceive, and after
a little sharp altercation pro and con to flatter his vanity by gradually giving up the argument,
and at last yielding him a victory, which gave him the more pleasure, because he thought it
to be entirely owing to the invincible strength of his judgment. But she had another fault,
which, if possible, was still more odious, than any of those already mentioned--viz. to revile
and backbite those from whom she had received the greatest favours; for as she was too proud
to own herself to be under obligations to any person, so to prevent others from taking notice
of them, as she imagined to her disadvantage, she would represent every obligation she had
received from her friends to be either of the most trifling consequence, or to have been bestowed
from selfish and despicable motives. Such was the temper and behaviour of Miss Abigail, who
was a wretched complication of malice, low cunning and ingratitude: It is therefore no wonder
that every person of sense and character was careful to avoid her company, and that she was
detested by many, and despised even by those who wished her well. In short, the general contempt
to which she had exposed herself, and the severe mortifications she met with from time to time,
gave such killing wounds to her pride, that after pining and wasting away with shame and vexation
for the space of several months, she at last broke her heart and gave up the ghost, in the
seventeenth year of her age. After her death her contemptible soul was immediately hurried
into the body of this venomous serpent, where it still retains its former malice and cunning."--When
the Bramin had finished his story, the serpent, as if she understood and resented what had
been said, writhed about and hissed at him as if she could have stung his eyes out.

We afterwards visited several other apartments, and saw a young tyger, a fox, a badger, &c.
each of which was animated by the soul of some naughty child, who very nearly resembled him
in temper. But as I have perhaps, already carried my treatise to such a length as will tire
the eyes and the patience of my little readers, it is proper to bring it to a conclusion. I
will, therefore, take my leave of them for the present, with observing that in one of the rooms
we visited, we saw a pretty little parrot, in a gilt cage, who was perpetually talking, but
did not understand the meaning of one single word he said. "This noisy bird, said the good
Bramin, is inhabited by the soul of the late master Gabble, who was remarkable for two faults.
He always spoke without thinking, and read a great deal with so little attention, that he made
no farther improvement in knowledge than if he had never read at all. He devoured every thing,
but digested nothing." If any of my readers happen to be of the same disposition, they may
survey the gilt covers of this little treatise with as much advantage as they will peruse the
contents of it.

FINIS.