 Paul's, and followed it up by
pamphlets; the cause was taken up by the Quarterly Review in 1811, and in the same year the
National Society was founded to 'educate the poor in the principles of the Established Church.'
Bell had suggested a national system, but the times were not ripe. Meanwhile the controversy
became furious. The Edinburgh and the Quarterly thundered on opposite sides. Immense importance
was attached by both parties to the scheme devised by Bell, and partly adopted by Lancaster.
The war involved a personal element and the charges of plagiarism which give spice to a popular
controversy. All parties, and certainly the Utilitarians, strangely exaggerated the value of
the new method. They regarded the proposal that children should be partly taught by other children
instead of being wholly taught by adults as a kind of scientific discovery which would enormously
simplify and cheapen education. Believers in the 'Panopticon' saw in it another patent method
of raising the general level of intelligence. But the real question was between church and
dissent. Was the church catechism to be imposed or not? This, as we have seen, was the occasion
of Bentham's assault upon church and catechism. On the other side, Bell's claims were supported
with enthusiasm by all the Tories, and by such men as Southey and Coleridge. Southey, who had
defended Bell in the Quarterly,[12] undertook to be Bell's biographer[13] and literary executor.
Coleridge was so vehement in the cause that when lecturing upon 'Romeo and Juliet' in 1811,
he plunged by way of exordium into an assault upon Lancaster's modes of punishment.[14] De
Quincey testifies that he became a positive bore upon Bell's virtues. In 1812 Lancaster had
got deeply into debt to the trustees of the Society, who included besides Allen, Joseph Fox--a
'shallow, gloomy bigot' according to Place--and some other Quakers. Lancaster resented their
control, and in 1812 made over his Borough Road school to them, and set up one of his own at
Tooting. They continued, however, to employ him, and in 1813 formed themselves into the 'British
and Foreign' School Society. Place had known Lancaster from 1804, and Mill had supported him
in the press. They both became members of the committee, though Place took the most active
part. He makes many grave charges against Lancaster, whom he regarded as hopelessly flighty
and impracticable, if not worse. Ultimately in 1814 Lancaster resigned his position, and naturally
retorted that Place was an infidel. Place, meanwhile, was ill at ease with the 'gloomy bigot,'
as he calls Fox. After many quarrels, Fox succeeded in getting the upper hand, and Place finally
withdrew from the committee in 1815.

Two other schemes arose out of this, in which Mill was specially interested, but which both
proved abortive. Mill and Place resolved in 1813 to start a 'West London Lancasterian Institution,'
which was to educate the whole population west of Temple Bar. They were joined by Edward Wakefield,
father of the Edward Gibbon Wakefield who in later years was known as an economist, and himself
author of a work of considerable reputation, An Account of Ireland, Statistical and Political
(1812). The three joined Joseph Fox, and ultimately a meeting was held in August 1813. Sir
James Mackintosh was in the chair. Mill wrote the address, and motions were proposed by his
friend Joseph Hume and by William Allen. Papers were circulated, headed 'Schools for all,'[15]
and the institution was launched with a sufficiency of applause. But the 'gloomy bigot' was
secretary. He declared that he would rather see the institution destroyed than permit it to
be used for infidel purposes. The Bible was, of course, to be read in the schools, but Fox
wished that the Bible alone should be read. As the committee, according to Place, included
four infidels, three Unitarians, six Methodists, two Baptists, two Roman Catholics, and several
members of the Established Church, it was hardly a happy family. To add to the confusion, Sir
Francis Burdett, who had contributed a thousand pounds, had taken it into his head that Place
was a government spy.[16] The Association, as is hardly surprising, ceased to exist in 1816,
after keeping up a school of less than three hundred children, and ended in hopeless failure.
The Utilitarians had higher hopes from a scheme of their own. This was the Chrestomathic school
which occasioned Bentham's writing. An association was formed in February 1814. Mackintosh,
Brougham, Mill, Allen, Fox, and Wakefield were to be trustees. The school was to apply Lancasterian
principles to the education of the middle classes, and Bentham was to supply them with a philosophy
and with a site in his garden. There the old gentleman was to see a small version of the Panopticon
building, and, for a time, he took great delight in the prospect. Gradually, however, it seems
to have dawned upon him that there might be inconveniences in being overlooked by a set of
even model schoolboys. There were difficulties as to funds. Ricardo offered £200 and collected
subscriptions for £900, but Place thought that he might have been more liberal. About 1817
they counted upon subscriptions for £2310. Allen was treasurer, Place secretary, and the dukes
of Kent and York were on the committee. Romilly was persuaded to join, and they had hopes of
the £1000 given by Burdett to the West London Institution. But the thing could never be got
into working order, in spite of Place's efforts and Mill's counsels; and, after painful haulings
and tuggings, it finally collapsed in 1820.[17]

The efforts of the Utilitarians to effect anything directly in the way of education thus fell
completely flat. One moral is sufficiently obvious. They were, after all, but a small clique,
regarded with suspicion by all outsiders; and such a system as could seriously affect education
could only be carried out either by government, which was thinking of very different things,
or by societies already connected with the great religious bodies. The only function which
could be adequately discharged by the little band of Utilitarians was to act upon public opinion;
and this, no doubt, they could do to some purpose. I have gone so far into these matters in
order to illustrate their position; but, as will be seen, Mill, though consulted at every stage
by Place, and doing what he could to advocate the cause, was, after all, in the background.
He was still wrestling with the Indian History, which was, as he hoped, to win for him an independent
position. The effort was enormous. In 1814 he told Place that he was working at the History
from 5 A.M. till 11 P.M. When at Ford Abbey his regular day's work began at 6 A.M. and lasted
till 11 P.M., during which time three hours were given to teaching his children, and a couple
of short walks supplied him with recreation. How, with all his energy, he managed to pay his
way is a mystery, which his biographer is unable fully to solve.[18]

The History at last appeared in 3 vols. 4to, at the end of 1817. Dry and stern as its author,
and embodying some of his political prejudices, it was at least a solid piece of work, which
succeeded at once, and soon became the standard book upon the subject. Mill argues in the preface
with characteristic courage that his want of personal knowledge of India was rather an advantage.
It made him impartial. A later editor[19] has shown that it led to some serious misconceptions.
It is characteristic of the Utilitarian attitude to assume that a sufficient knowledge of fact
can always be obtained from blue-books and statistics. Some facts require imagination and sympathy
to be appreciated, and there Mill was deficient. He could not give an adequate picture of Hindoo
beliefs and customs, though he fully appreciated the importance of such questions. Whatever
its shortcomings, the book produced a remarkable change in Mill's position. He applied for
a vacant office in the India House. His friends, Joseph Hume and Ricardo, made interest for
him in the city. Place co-operated energetically.[20] Canning, then president of the Board
of Control, is said to have supported him; and the general impression of his ability appears
to have caused his election, in spite of some Tory opposition. He became Assistant to the Examiner
of India Correspondence, with a salary of £800 on 12th May 1819. On 10th April 1821 he became
Second Assistant, with £1000 a year; on 9th April 1823 he was made Assistant Examiner, with
£1200 a year; and on 1st December 1830 Examiner, with £1900, which on 17th February 1836 was
raised to £2000. The official work came in later years to absorb the greatest part of Mill's
energy, and his position excluded him from any active participation in politics, had he ever
been inclined for it. Mill, however, set free from bondage, was able to exert himself very
effectually with his pen; and his writings became in a great degree the text-books of his sect.

During 1818 he had again co-operated with Place in a political matter. The dissolution of parliament
in 1818 produced another contest at Westminster. Place and Mill were leaders in the Radical
committee, which called a public meeting, where Burdett and Kinnaird were chosen as candidates.
They were opposed to Romilly, the old friend of Bentham and of Mill himself. Both Mill and
Bentham regarded him as not sufficiently orthodox. Romilly, however, was throughout at the
head of the poll, and the Radical committee were obliged to withdraw their second candidate,
Kinnaird, in order to secure the election of Burdett against the government candidate Maxwell.
Romilly soon afterwards dined at Bentham's house, and met Mill, with Dumont, Brougham, and
Rush, on friendly terms. On Romilly's sad death on 2nd November following, Mill went to Worthing
to offer his sympathy to the family, and declared that the 'gloom' had 'affected his health.'
He took no part in the consequent election, in which Hobhouse stood unsuccessfully as the Radical
candidate.

III. LEADER OF THE UTILITARIANS

Politics were beginning to enter upon a new phase. The period was marked by the 'Six Acts'
and the 'Peterloo massacre.' The Radical leaders who upheld the cause in those dark days were
not altogether to the taste of the Utilitarians. After Burdett, John Cartwright (1740-1824)
and Henry (or 'Orator') Hunt (1773-1835), hero of the 'Peterloo massacre,' were the most conspicuous.
They were supported by Cobbett, the greatest journalist of the time, and various more obscure
writers. The Utilitarians held them in considerable contempt. Burdett was flashy, melodramatic,
and vain; Hunt an 'unprincipled demagogue'; and Cartwright, the Nestor of reform, who had begun
his labours in 1780, was, according to Place, wearisome, impracticable, and a mere nuisance
in matters of business. The Utilitarians tried to use such men, but shared the Tory opinion
of their value. They had some relations with other obscure writers who were martyrs to the
liberty of the press. Place helped William Hone in the Reformer's Register, which was brought
out in 1817. The famous trial in which Hone triumphed over Ellenborough occurred at the end
of that year. Richard Carlile (1790-1843), who reprinted Hone's pamphlets, and in 1818 published
Paine's works, was sentenced in 1819 to three years' imprisonment; and while in confinement
began the Republican, which appeared from 1819 to 1826. Ultimately he passed nine years in
jail, and showed unflinching courage in maintaining the liberty of speech. The Utilitarians,
as Professor Bain believes, helped him during his imprisonments, and John Mill's first publication
was a protest against his prosecution.[21] A 'republican, an atheist, and Malthusian,' he was
specially hated by the respectable, and had in all these capacities claims upon the sympathy
of the Utilitarians. One of Carlile's first employments was to circulate the Black Dwarf, edited
by Thomas Jonathan Wooler from 1817 to 1824.[22] This paper represented Cartwright, but it
also published Bentham's reform Catechism, besides direct contributions and various selections
from his works.

The Utilitarians were opposed on principle to Cobbett, a reformer of a type very different
from their own; and still more vitally opposed to Owen, who was beginning to develop his Socialist
schemes. If they had sympathy for Radicalism of the Wooler or Carlile variety, they belonged
too distinctly to the ranks of respectability, and were too deeply impressed with the necessity
of reticence, to allow their sympathies to appear openly. As, on the other hand, they were
too Radical in their genuine creed to be accepted by Edinburgh Reviewers and frequenters of
Holland House, there was a wide gap between them and the genuine Whig. Their task therefore
was to give a political theory which should be Radical in principle, and yet in such a form
as should appeal to the reason of the more cultivated readers without too openly shocking their
prejudices.

James Mill achieved this task by the publication of a series of articles in the Supplement
to the Encyclopædia Britannica, which appeared from 1816 to 1823, of which I shall presently
speak at length. It passed for the orthodox profession of faith among the little circle of
friends who had now gathered round him. First among them was David Ricardo. He had become known
to Mill in 1811. 'I,' said Bentham, 'was the spiritual father of Mill, and Mill the spiritual
father of Ricardo.'[23] Mill was really the disciple of Ricardo in economics; but it was Mill
who induced him to publish his chief work, and Mill's own treatise upon the subject published
in 1820 is substantially an exposition of Ricardo's doctrine. Mill, too, encouraged Ricardo
to take a seat in parliament in 1818, and there for the short remainder of his life, Ricardo
defended the characteristic Utilitarian principles with the authority derived from his reputation
as an economist.[24] The two were now especially intimate. During Mill's first years in the
India House, his only recreation was an annual visit to Ricardo at Gatcombe. Meetings at Ricardo's
house in London led to the foundation of the 'Political Economy Club' in 1821. Mill drafted
the rules of the club, emphasising the duty of members to propagate sound economic opinions
through the press. The club took root and helped to make Mill known to politicians and men
of commercial influence. One of the members was Malthus, who is said, and the assertion is
credible enough, to have been generally worsted by Mill in the discussions at the club. Mill
was an awkward antagonist, and Malthus certainly not conspicuous for closeness of logic. The
circle of Mill's friends naturally extended as his position in the India House enabled him
to live more at his ease and brought him into contact with men of political position. His old
school-fellow Joseph Hume had made a fortune in India, and returned to take a seat in parliament
and become the persistent and tiresome advocate of many of the Utilitarian doctrines. A younger
generation was growing up, enthusiastic in the cause of reform, and glad to sit at the feet
of men who claimed at least to be philosophical leaders. John Black (1783-1855), another sturdy
Scot, who came from Duns in Berwickshire, had, in 1817, succeeded Perry as editor of the Morning
Chronicle. The Chronicle was an opposition paper, and day by day Black walked with Mill from
the India House, discussing the topics of the time and discharging himself through the Chronicle.
The Chronicle declined after 1821, owing to a change in the proprietorship.[25] Albany Fonblanque
(1793-1872) took to journalism at an early age, succeeded Leigh Hunt as leader-writer for the
Examiner in 1826, became another exponent of Utilitarian principles, and for some time in alliance
with John Stuart Mill was among the most effective representatives of the new school in the
press. John Ramsay M'Culloch (1789-1864) upheld the economic battle in the Scotsman at Edinburgh
from 1817-1827, and edited it from 1818-1820. He afterwards devoted himself to lecturing in
London, and was for many years the most ardent apostle of the 'dismal science.' He was a genial,
whisky-loving Scot; the favourite object of everybody's mimicry; and was especially intimate
with James Mill. Many other brilliant young men contributed their help in various ways. Henry
Bickersteth (1783-1851), afterwards Lord Langdale and Master of the Rolls, had brought Bentham
and Burdett into political alliance; and his rising reputation at the bar led to his being
placed in 1824 upon a commission for reforming the procedure of the Court of Chancery, one
of the most cherished objects of the Utilitarian creed. Besides these there were the group
of young men, who were soon to be known as the 'philosophical Radicals.' John Stuart Mill,
upon whom the mantle of his father was to descend, was conspicuous by his extraordinary precocity,
and having been carefully educated in the orthodox faith, was employed in 1825 upon editing
Bentham's great work upon evidence. George Grote (1794-1871), the future historian, had been
introduced to Mill by Ricardo; and was in 1821 defending Mill's theory of government against
Mackintosh, and in 1822 published the Analysis of Revealed Religion, founded upon Bentham's
manuscripts and expressing most unequivocally the Utilitarian theory of religion. With them
were associated the two Austins, John (1790-1859) who, in 1821, lived close to Bentham and
Mill in Queen's Square, and who was regarded as the coming teacher of the Utilitarian system
of jurisprudence; and Charles (1799-1874), who upheld the true faith among the young gentlemen
at Cambridge with a vigour and ability which at least rivalled the powers of his contemporary,
Macaulay. Meanwhile, Mill himself was disqualified by his office from taking any direct part
in political agitations. Place continued an active connection with the various Radical committees
and associations; but the younger disciples had comparatively little concern in such matters.
They were more interested in discussing the applications of Utilitarianism in various directions,
or, so far as they had parliamentary aspirations, were aspiring to found a separate body of
'philosophical Radicals,' which looked down upon Place and his allies from the heights of superior
enlightenment.

Mill could now look forward to a successful propaganda of the creed which had passed so slowly
through its period of incubation. The death of Ricardo in 1823 affected him to a degree which
astonished his friends, accustomed only to his stern exterior. A plentiful crop of young proselytes,
however, was arising to carry on the work; and the party now became possessed of the indispensable
organ. The Westminster Review was launched at the beginning of 1824. Bentham provided the funds;
Mill's official position prevented him from undertaking the editorship, which was accordingly
given to Bentham's young disciple, Bowring, helped for a time by Henry Southern. The Westminster
was to represent the Radicals as the two older reviews represented the Whigs and the Tories;
and to show that the new party had its philosophers and its men of literary cultivation as
well as its popular agitators and journalists. It therefore naturally put forth its claims
by opening fire in the first numbers against the Edinburgh and the Quarterly Reviews. The assault
upon the Edinburgh Review, of which I shall speak presently, made an impression, and, as J.
S. Mill tells us, brought success to the first number of the new venture. The gauntlet was
thrown down with plenty of vigour, and reformers were expected to rally round so thoroughgoing
a champion. In later numbers Mill afterwards (Jan. 9, 1826) fell upon Southey's Book of the
Church, and (April 1826) assailed church establishments in general. He defended toleration
during the same year in a review of Samuel Bailey's Formation of Opinions, and gave a general
account of his political creed in an article (October) on the 'State of the Nation.' This was
his last contribution to the Westminster; but in 1827 he contributed to the Parliamentary History
and Review, started by James Marshall of Leeds, an article upon recent debates on reform, which
ended for a time his political writings.

The Utilitarians had no great talent for cohesion. Their very principles were indeed in favour
of individual independence, and they were perhaps more ready to diverge than to tolerate divergence.
The Westminster Review had made a good start, and drew attention to the rising 'group'--J.
S. Mill declares that it never formed a 'school.'[26] From the very first the Mills distrusted
Bowring and disapproved of some articles; the elder Mill failed to carry his disciples with
him, partly because they were already in favour of giving votes to women; and as the Review
soon showed itself unable to pay its way, some new arrangement became necessary. It was finally
bought by Perronet Thompson, and ceased for a time to be the official organ of Benthamism.

Another undertaking occupied much of Mill's attention in the following years. The educational
schemes of the Utilitarians had so far proved abortive. In 1824, however, it had occurred to
the poet, Thomas Campbell, then editing the New Monthly Magazine, that London ought to possess
a university comparable to that of Berlin, and more on a level with modern thought than the
old universities of Oxford and Cambridge, which were still in the closest connection with the
church. Campbell addressed a letter to Brougham, and the scheme was taken up energetically
on several sides. Place[27] wrote an article, which he offered to Campbell for the New Monthly,
who declined out of modesty to publish it in his own organ. It was then offered to Bowring
for the Westminster, and ultimately suppressed by him, which may have been one of the causes
of his differences with the Mills. Brougham took a leading part in the agitation; Joseph Hume
promised to raise £100,000. George Birkbeck, founder of the Mechanics' Institution, and Zachary
Macaulay, who saw in it a place of education for dissenting ministers, joined the movement,
and among the most active members of the new body were James Mill and Grote. A council was
formed at the end of 1825, and after various difficulties a sum of £160,000 was raised, and
the university started in Gower Street in 1828. Among the first body of professors were John
Austin and M'Culloch, both of them sound Utilitarians. The old difficulty, however, made itself
felt. In order to secure the unsectarian character of the university, religious teaching was
omitted. The college was accused of infidelity. King's College was started in opposition; and
violent antipathies were aroused. A special controversy raged within the council itself. Two
philosophical chairs were to be founded; and philosophy cannot be kept clear of religion. After
long discussions, one chair was filled by the appointment of the Reverend John Hoppus, an independent
minister. Grote, declaring that no man, pledged by his position to the support of any tenets,
should be appointed, resigned his place on the council.[28] The university in 1836 became a
college combined with its rival King's College under the newly formed examining body called
the University of London. It has, I suppose, been of service to education, and may be regarded
as the one practical achievement of the Utilitarians in that direction, so far as its foundation
was due to them. It must, however, be admitted that the actual body still falls very far short
of the ideal present to the minds of its founders.

From 1822 James Mill spent his vacations at Dorking, and afterwards at Mickleham. He had devoted
them to a task which was necessary to fill a gap in the Utilitarian scheme. Hitherto the school
had assumed, rather than attempted to establish, a philosophical basis of its teaching. Bentham's
fragmentary writings about the Chrestomathic school supplied all that could by courtesy be
called a philosophy. Mill, however, had been from the first interested in philosophical questions.
His reading was not wide; he knew something of the doctrines taught by Stewart and Stewart's
successor, Brown. He had been especially impressed by Hobbes, to some degree by Locke and Hume,
but above all by Hartley. He knew something, too, of Condillac and the French Ideologists.
Of recent German speculation he was probably quite ignorant. I find indeed that Place had called
his attention to the account of Kant, published by Wirgman in the Encyclopædia Londinensis
1817. Mill about the same time tells Place that he has begun to read The Critic of Pure Reason.
'I see clearly enough,' he says, 'what poor Kant would be about, but it would require some
time to give an account of him.' He wishes (December 6, 1817) that he had time to write a book
which would 'make the human mind as plain as the road from Charing Cross to St. Paul's.'[29]
This was apparently the task to which he applied himself in his vacations. The Analysis appeared
in 1829, and, whatever its defects of incompleteness and one-sidedness from a philosophical
point of view, shows in the highest degree Mill's powers of close, vigorous statement; and
lays down with singular clearness the psychological doctrine, which from his point of view
supplied the fundamental theorems of knowledge in general. It does not appear, however, to
have made an impression proportionate to the intellectual power displayed, and had to wait
a long time before reaching the second edition due to the filial zeal of J. S. Mill.

James Mill, after his articles in the Westminster, could take little part in political agitation.
He was still consulted by Place in regard to the Reform movement. Place himself took an important
part at the final crisis, especially by his circulation in the week of agony of the famous
placard, 'Go for Gold.' But the Utilitarians were now lost in the crowd. The demand for reform
had spread through all classes. The attack upon the ruling class carried on by the Radicals
of all shades in the dark days of Sidmouth and the six Acts was now supported by the nation
at large. The old Toryism could no longer support itself by appealing to the necessities of
a struggle for national existence. The prestige due to the victorious end of the war had faded
away. The Reform Bill of 1832 was passed, and the Utilitarians hoped that the millennium would
at least begin to dawn.

Mill in 1830 removed from Queen's Square to Vicarage Place, Kensington. He kept his house at
Mickleham, and there took long Sunday walks with a few of his disciples. His strength was more
and more absorbed in his official duties. He was especially called upon to give evidence before
the committees which from 1830 to 1833 considered the policy to be adopted in renewing the
charter of the East India Company. Mill appeared as the advocate of the company, defended their
policy, and argued against the demands of the commercial body which demanded the final suppression
of the old trading monopoly of the Company. The abolition, indeed, was a foregone conclusion;
but Mill's view was not in accordance with the doctrines of the thoroughgoing freetraders.
His official experience, it seems, upon this and other matters deterred him from the a priori
dogmatism too characteristic of his political speculations. Mill also suggested the formation
of a legislative council, which was to contain one man 'versed in the philosophy of men and
government.' This was represented by the appointment of the legal member of council in the
Act of 1833. Mill approved of Macaulay as the first holder of the post. It was 'very handsome'
of him, as Macaulay remarks, inasmuch as the famous articles written by Macaulay himself, in
which the Edinburgh had at last retorted upon the Utilitarians, must still have been fresh
in his memory. The 'Penal Code' drawn by Macaulay as holder of the office was the first actual
attempt to carry out Bentham's favourite schemes under British rule, and the influence of the
chief of Bentham's disciples at the India House may have had something to do with its initiation.
Macaulay's chief subordinate, it may be remarked, Charles Hay Cameron, was one of the Benthamites,
and had been proposed by Grote for the chair at the London University ultimately filled by Hoppus.

After 1830 Mill wrote the severe fragment on Mackintosh, which, after a delay caused by Mackintosh's
death, appeared in 1835. He contributed some articles to the London Review, founded by Sir
W. Molesworth, as an organ of the 'philosophical Radicals,' and superintended, though not directly
edited, by J. S. Mill. These, his last performances, repeat the old doctrines. It does not
appear, indeed, that Mill ever altered one of his opinions. He accepted Bentham's doctrine
to the end, as unreservedly as a mathematician might accept Newton's Principia.

Mill's lungs had begun to be affected. It was supposed that they were injured by the dust imbibed
on coach journeys to Mickleham. He had a bad attack of hæmorrhage in August 1835, and died
peacefully on 23rd June 1836.

What remains to be said of Mill personally may be suggested by a noticeable parallel. S. T.
Coleridge, born about six months before Mill, died two years before him. The two lives thus
coincided for more than sixty years, and each man was the leader of a school. In all else the
contrast could hardly be greater. If we were to apply the rules of ordinary morality, it would
be entirely in Mill's favour. Mill discharged all his duties as strenuously as a man could,
while Coleridge's life was a prolonged illustration of the remark that when an action presented
itself to him as a duty he became physically incapable of doing it. Whatever Mill undertook
he accomplished, often in the face of enormous difficulties. Coleridge never finished anything,
and his works are a heap of fragments of the prolegomena to ambitious schemes. Mill worked
his hardest from youth to age, never sparing labour or shirking difficulties or turning aside
from his path. Coleridge dawdled through life, solacing himself with opium, and could only
be coaxed into occasional activity by skilful diplomacy. Mill preserved his independence by
rigid self-denial, temperance, and punctuality. Coleridge was always dependent upon the generosity
of his friends. Mill brought up a large family, and in the midst of severe labours found time
to educate them even to excess. Coleridge left his wife and children to be cared for by others.
And Coleridge died in the odour of sanctity, revered by his disciples, and idolised by his
children; while Mill went to the grave amidst the shrugs of respectable shoulders, and respected
rather than beloved by the son who succeeded to his intellectual leadership.

The answer to the riddle is indeed plain enough; or rather there are many superabundantly obvious
answers. Had Mill defended orthodox views and Coleridge been avowedly heterodox, we should
no doubt have heard more of Coleridge's opium and of Mill's blameless and energetic life. But
this explains little. That Coleridge was a man of genius and, moreover, of exquisitely poetical
genius, and that Mill was at most a man of remarkable talent and the driest and sternest of
logicians is also obvious. It is even more to the purpose that Coleridge was overflowing with
kindliness, though little able to turn goodwill to much effect; whereas Mill's morality took
the form chiefly of attacking the wicked. This is indicated by the saying attributed by Bowring
to Bentham that Mill's sympathy for the many sprang out of his hatred of the oppressing few.[30]
J. S. Mill very properly protested against this statement when it was quoted in the Edinburgh
Review. It would obviously imply a gross misunderstanding, whether Bentham, not a good observer
of men, said so or not. But it indicates the side of Mill's character which made him unattractive
to contemporaries and also to posterity. He partook, says his son,[31] of the Stoic, the Epicurean,
and the Cynic character. He was a Stoic in his personal qualities; an Epicurean so far as his
theory of morals was concerned; and a Cynic in that he cared little for pleasure. He thought
life a 'poor thing' after the freshness of youth had passed; and said that he had never known
an old man happy unless he could live over again in the pleasures of the young. Temperance
and self-restraint were therefore his favourite virtues. He despised all 'passionate emotions';
he held with Bentham that feelings by themselves deserved neither praise nor blame; he condemned
a man who did harm whether the harm came from malevolence or from intellectual error. Therefore
all sentiment was objectionable, for sentiment means neglect of rules and calculations. He
shrank from showing feeling with more than the usual English reserve; and showed his devotion
to his children by drilling them into knowledge with uncompromising strictness. He had no feeling
for the poetical or literary side of things; and regarded life, it would seem, as a series
of arguments, in which people were to be constrained by logic, not persuaded by sympathy. He
seems to have despised poor Mrs. Mill, and to have been unsuccessful in concealing his contempt,
though in his letters he refers to her respectfully. Mill therefore was a man little likely
to win the hearts of his followers, though his remarkable vigour of mind dominated their understandings.

The amiable and kindly, whose sympathies are quickly moved, gain an unfair share of our regard
both in life and afterwards. We are more pleased by an ineffectual attempt to be kindly, than
by real kindness bestowed ungraciously. Mill's great qualities should not be overlooked because
they were hidden by a manner which seems almost deliberately repellent. He devoted himself
through life to promote the truth as he saw it; to increase the scanty amounts of pleasures
enjoyed by mankind; and to discharge all the duties which he owed to his neighbours. He succeeded
beyond all dispute in forcibly presenting one set of views which profoundly influenced his
countrymen; and the very narrowness of his intellect enabled him to plant his blows more effectively.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] The chief authority for James Mill is James Mill: a Biography, by Alexander Bain, Emeritus
Professor of Logic in the University of Aberdeen, London, 1882. The book contains very full
materials; and, if rather dry, deals with a dry subject.

[2] Wallas's Francis Place, p. 70 n.

[3] Bain's James Mill, p. 166.

[4] Gifford's real name was John Richards Green. The identity of his assumed name with that
of the more famous William Gifford has led to a common confusion between the two periodicals.
'Peter Pindar' assaulted William Gifford under the erroneous impression that he was editor
of the second.

