'May it be so,' said Gracchus; 'and let not the heats of political opposition change the kindly
current of your blood, nor inflame it. You, Lucius Piso, are to remember the provocations of
Calpurnius, and are to feel that there was a nobleness in that sensibility to a declension
into Persian effeminacy that, to say the least, reflects quite as much honor upon the name
of Piso, and even Roman, as any loyalty to an emperor like Gallienus, or that senate filled
with his creatures. And you, Calpurnius Piso, are to allow for that instinctive veneration
for every thing Roman which grows up with the Roman, and even in spite of his better reason
ripens into a bigotry that deserves the name of a crime rather than a virtue, and are to consider,
that while in you the growth of this false sentiment has been checked by causes, in respect
to which you were the sport of fortune, so in Lucius it has been quickened by other causes
over which he also was powerless. But to utter my belief, Lucius I think is now more than half
Palmyrene, and I trust yet, if committed as he has been to the further tuition of our patriot
Fausta, will be not only in part, but altogether of our side.'

'In the mean time, let us rejoice,' said Fausta, 'that the noble Calpurnius joins our cause.
If we may judge by the eye, the soft life of a Persian Satrap has not quite exhausted the native
Roman vigor.'

'I have never intermitted,' replied Calpurnius, 'martial exercises: especially have I studied
the whole art of horsemanship, so far as the chase and military discipline can teach it. It
is in her cavalry, as I learn, that Zenobia places her strength: I shall there, I trust, do
her good service.'

'In the morning,' said Fausta, 'it shall be my office to bring you before our Queen.'

'And now, Fausta,' said Gracchus,'bring your harp, and let music perfect the harmony which
reason and philosophy have already so well begun; music--which for its power over our souls,
may rather be held an influence of the gods, a divine breathing, than any thing of mortal birth.'

'I fear,' said Fausta, as she touched the instrument--the Greek and not the Jewish harp--'I
shall still further task your philosophy; for I can sing nothing else than the war-song, which
is already heard all through the streets of Palmyra, and whose author, it is said, is no less
than our chief spirit, Longinus. Lucius, you must close your ears.'

'Never, while your voice sounds, though bloody treason were the only burden.'

'You are a gentle Roman.'

Then after a brief but fiery prelude, which of itself struck by her fingers was enough to send
life into stones, she broke forth into a strain, abrupt and impassioned, of wild Pindaric energy,
that seemed the very war-cry of a people striking and dying for liberty. Her voice, inspired
by a soul too large for mortal form, rang like a trumpet through the apartment, and seemed
to startle the gods themselves at their feast. As the hymn moved on to its perfect close, and
the voice of Fausta swelled with the waxing theme, Calpurnius seemed like one entranced; unconsciously
he had left his seat, and there, in the midst of the room, stood before the divine girl converted
to a statue. As she ceased, the eyes of Calpurnius fell quickly upon me, with an expression
which I instantly interpreted, and should have instantly returned, but that we were all alike
roused out of ourselves by the loud shouts of a multitude without the palace, who apparently
had been drawn together by the far-reaching tones of Fausta's voice, and who, as soon as the
last strings of the harp were touched, testified their delight by reiterated and enthusiastic
cries.

'When Zabdas and Zenobia fail,' said Calpurnius, 'you, daughter of Gracchus, may lead the armies
of your country by your harp and voice; they would inspire not less than the fame of Caesar
or Aurelian.'

'But be it known to you. Piso,' said Gracchus, 'that this slight girl can wield a lance or
a sword, while centaur-like she grows to the animal she rides, as well as sweep these idle
strings.'

'I will learn of her in either art,' replied my brother. 'As I acknowledge no instinct which
is to bind me to an unjust parent, but will give honor only where there is virtue, so on the
field of war I will enlist under any leader in whom I behold the genius of a warrior, be that
leader man or woman, boy or girl.'

'I shall be satisfied,' said Fausta, 'to become your teacher in music, that is, if you can
learn through the force of example alone. Take now another lesson. Zenobia shall teach you
the art of war.'

With these words she again passed her fingers over her harp, and after strains of melting sweetness,
prolonged till our souls were wholly subdued to the sway of the gentler emotions, she sang
in words of Sappho, the praise of love and peace, twin-sisters. And then as we urged, or named
to her, Greek or Roman airs which we wished to hear, did she sing and play till every sense
was satisfied and filled.

It needs not so much sagacity as I possess to perceive the effect upon my brother of the beauty
and powers of Fausta. He speaks with difficulty when he addresses her, and while arguing or
conversing with me or Gracchus, his eye seeks her countenance, and then falls as it encounters
hers, as if he had committed some crime. Fausta, I am sure, is not insensible to the many rare
and striking qualities of Calpurnius: but her affections can be given only where there is a
soul of very uncommon elevation. Whether Calpurnius is throughout that, which he seems to be,
and whether he is worthy the love of a being like Fausta, I know not yet, though I am strong
in faith that it is so. In the mean time, a mutual affection is springing up and growing upon
the thin soil of the fancy, and may reach a quick and rank luxuriance before it shall be discovered
that there is nothing more substantial beneath. But why indulge a single doubt? only, I suppose,
because I would rather Rome should fall than that any harm come to the heart of Fausta.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a little after the noon of this day that the ambassadors, Petronius and Varro, passed
from out the gates of Palmyra, bearing with them a virtual declaration of war.

The greatest excitement prevails. The streets are already filled with sights and sounds admonitory
of the scenes which are soon to be disclosed. There is the utmost enthusiasm in every quarter,
and upon every face you behold the confidence and pride of those who, accustomed to conquest,
are about to extend their dominion over new territories, and to whom war is a game of pleasure
rather than a dark hazard, that may end in utter desolation and ruin. Intrenched within these
massy walls, the people of this gay capital cannot realise war. Its sounds have ever been afar
off, beyond the wide sweep of the deserts; and will be now, so they judge--and they are scarcely
turned for a moment, or by the least remove, from their accustomed cares or pleasures.

Letter XII.

