(1.) "The Works of Jacob Behmen, the Teutonic Theosopher, to which is prefixed the Life of
the Author, with Figures illustrating his Principles, left by the Rev. William Law, M.A. In
four thick Volumes, royal 4to. London: printed for M. Richardson in Paternoster Row, MDCCLXIV."
With a fine portrait of Behmen facing the title-page of the first volume. This edition contains
the following works:

    1. Aurora: the Day-spring, or Dawning of the Day in the East; or
    Morning-redness in the Rising of the Sun: that is, the Root or Mother
    of Philosophy, Astrology, and Theology, from the True Ground; or, A
    Description of Nature.

    2. The Three Principles of the Divine Essence of the Eternal: Dark,
    Light, and Temporary World.

    3. Mysterium Magnum: or an Explanation of the First Book of Moses
    called Genesis.

    4. Four Tables of Divine Revelation.

    5. The High and Deep-Searching of the Threefold Life of Man, through or
    according to the Three Principles.

    6. Forty Questions concerning the Soul, proposed by Dr. Balthasar
    Walter, and answered by Jacob Behmen.

    7. The Treatise of the Incarnation.

    8. The Clavis, or an Explanation of some Principal Points and
    Expressions.

    9. Signatura Rerum.

    10. Of the Election of Grace; or of God's Will towards Man, commonly
    called Predestination.

    11. The Way to Christ discovered in the following Treatises:--I. Of
    True Repentance. II. Of True Resignation. III. Of Regeneration. IV. Of
    Supernatural Life.

    12. A Discourse between a Soul hungry and thirsty after the Fountain of
    Life, the sweet Love of Jesus Christ, and a Soul enlightened.

    13. A Treatise of the Four Complexions, or a Consolatory Instruction
    for a Sad and Assaulted Heart in the Time of Temptation.

    14. A Treatise of Christ's Testament, Baptism, and the Supper.

(2.) "Theosophic Letters, or Epistles of the Man from God enlightened in Grace, Jacob Behmen,
of Old Seidenburgh, wherein everywhere [are?] Divine Blessed Exhortations to true Repentance
and Amendment, as also Plaine Instructions concerning the highly worthy and precious Knowledge
of the Divine and Natural Wisdome; together with a Right Touchstone or Triall of these Times,
for an Introduction to the Author's other Writings: published in English for the good of the
sincere Lovers of true Christianitie, by I. S.[2]" (I have only a MS. copy of this publication.)

(3.) A beautiful MS. translation of "The Way to Christ." This is hardly so accurate as the
one already referred to, though some of the expressions are better chosen. The date of this
MS. is about 1730, or earlier.

(4.) A fair MS. translation of Jacob Behmen's treatise called "A Fundamental Instruction concerning
the Earthly and concerning the Heavenly Mystery; how they two stand in one another, and how
in the Earthly the Heavenly becometh manifested or revealed, wherein then you shall see Babell
the great citty upon Earth stand with its Forms and Wonders; and wherefore, or out of what,
Babell is generated, and where Antichrist will stand quite naked. Comprised in Nine Texts.
Written May 8, 1620, in High Dutch." (I have seen no printed translation of this treatise.)

(5.) MS. translation of the fourth treatise of "The Way to Christ," viz. "of the Supersensual
Life." This is a less accurate rendering than either of the others above mentioned.

Perhaps your mystic correspondents will kindly furnish lists of other publications and MSS.
of {14} "the Teutonick Theosopher." There are sixteen more of his works, of which fifteen are
now extant in High Dutch. As old Behmen is but little known in this country, save by ill-repute,
as having led astray William Law in his old age, and, through him, having tinctured the religious
philosophy of Coleridge, it way be worth noting, that no less a philosopher than Schelling
(to whom, as we know, Coleridge stood so greatly indebted) stole from the Lusatian shoemaker
the corner-stones of his Philosophy of Nature.

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

[Footnote 2: J. Sparrow.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

RAFFAELLE'S SPOSALIZIO.

(Vol. vii., p. 595.)

With regard to your correspondent MR. G. BRINDLEY ACKWORTH's Query respecting Raffaelle's Sposalizio,
I am induced to think that the custode at the church of the Santa Croce at Florence was right
as to his information. In the copy which I have of the "Ordo ad faciendum Sponsalia," according
to the ancient use of Salisbury, the ring is undoubtedly to be placed on the bride's right
hand. Wheatly indeed says, that "when the man espouses his wife with it (i.e. the ring), he
is to put it upon the fourth finger of her left hand;" and then refers, for the reason of this,
to the rubric of Salisbury Manual, which speaks of the vein going from this finger directly
to the heart.

Now, what are the precise words of this rubric? After giving directions for the benediction
of the ring, provided it has not previously been blessed, the rubric goes on thus:

    "Si autem antea fuerit annulus ille benedictus tunc statim postquam vir
    posuerit annulum super librum, accipiens sacerdos annulum tradat ipsum
    viro: quem vir accipiat manu sua dextera cum tribus principalioribus
    digitis, et manu sua sinistra tenens dexteram sponsæ docente sacerdote
    dicat."

The man is to receive the ring from the priest with the three principal fingers of the right
hand; and then, holding the right hand of the bride with his own left hand, he shall say, "With
this ring," &c. He is then to place the ring on her thumb, saying, "In nomine Patris;" then
on her second finger, saying "et Filii;" then on the third finger, saying "et Spiritus Sancti;"
then on the fourth finger, saying "Amen;" and there he is to leave it. There is not a word
said about the bride's left hand, the right is alone mentioned; and why should the man hold
her right hand with his left, but that with his right hand he may the more easily place the
ring, first on the thumb, then on the other fingers of her right hand, until it arrives at
its ideal destination?

While I am upon this subject, allow me to point out another singular direction given in a rubric
in this same "Ordo ad faciendum Sponsalia." When the woman is, as we term it, given away, if
she be a spinster, she is to have her hand uncovered; if a widow, covered: the words are--

    "Deinde detur femina a patre suo, vel ab amicis ejus: quod si puella
    sit, discoopertam habeat manum, si vidua, tectam."

There is no reason given for this distinction, nor do I ever remember to have seen it noticed.

F. B. W.

The Sposalizio, or "espousals," or betrothing, is certainly a different ceremony from the marriage.
Is not the fact of young ladies popularly considering and calling the third finger of the right
hand the engaged finger, and wearing a ring on that finger when engaged, a confirmation of
your correspondent's idea, that at this "betrothal" or "espousals" (compare the phrase "his
espoused wife" of Mary before her marriage with Joseph) the ring was placed in the right hand;
at the marriage ceremony on the left?

SC.

       *       *       *       *       *

WINDFALL.

(Vol. vii., p. 285.)

W. W. is desirous of interpreting windfall, as necessarily from its origin denoting a gain.
He is, perhaps, expecting a handsome bequest; I wish he may get it; but he may rely on it that
the windfall of the bequest will be accompanied by the windfall of the "Succession Act." Let
us hear what our great Doctor says; his first explanation is, "Fruit blown down from the tree."

W. W.'s little boys and girls would deem a windfall of unripe apples, at this time of the year,
a good; they will make a pie for dinner. W. W. himself would call it an evil; the ripe crop
is ruined.

But let us see how Johnson illustrates his explanation:

    "Their boughs were too great for their stem, they became a windfall
    upon the sudden."--Bacon, Essay 29.

Webster copies this for his first explanation, as he does also our Dr's. second for his second;
but as it is not his plan to illustrate by examples, he is saved from the eccentricity of his
original.

If we refer to Bacon we shall be reminded of Johnson's warning, that by "hasty detruncation
the general tendency of a sentence may be changed." The sentence here so hastily detruncated,
stands thus in the Essay:

    "The Spartans were a nice people in point of naturalisation, whereby
    while they kept their compasse, they stood firme. But when they did
    spread, and their boughes were becommen too great for their stemme,
    they became a windfall upon the suddaine. 'Potentia eorum subito
    corruit.'"

They, in Johnson's mutilated sentence, refers to the boughs; in Bacon, to the Spartans; so
that, in {15} the first place, the Spartans are transformed into boughs, and, in the next place,
the boughs into fruit. Detruncation, however, had nothing to do with this latter metamorphosis;
and I am afraid this is not a solitary instance of lexicographical incongruity.

W. W. may assure himself that a windfall is "whatever falls by the wind, or with similar suddenness
or unexpectedness, whether bringing good or ill."

And if he will take the trouble to refer to "The Case of Impeachment of Waste," quoted by MR.
ARROWSMITH, Vol. vii., p. 375., he will find, only a few lines before that gentleman's quotation
begins, a legal question at issue as to the right of property in windfalls.

Q.

Bloomsbury.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. JUSTICE NEWTON.

(Vol. vii., pp. 528. 600.)

It would greatly enhance the value of contributions to "N. & Q.," save much trouble, and often
lead to a more direct intercourse between persons of similar pursuits, if contributors would
drop initials, and sign their own proper name and habitat; and in saying this, I believe the
Editor will second me. If C. S. G. had done this, I should have been happy to send him an envelope
full of proofs that Mr. Justice Newton did not die in 1444, for that a fine was levied before
him in 1448; that he is not buried in Bristol Cathedral, but in the Wyke Aisle in Yatton Church,
Somerset, where may be seen his effigies beautifully carved in alabaster, in his judge's robes,
and his head resting on a wheat-sheaf or garb; that there was no relationship between the second
baronet of Hather, his arms being cross bones, &c., and those of the judge, who was truly a
Cradock, were three garbs, &c. I would now beg leave to refer C. S. G. to my former communications
in "N. & Q." about Cradock Newton, particularly Vol. ii., pp. 248. 427.; Chronica Judicialia,
1635; Foss's Lives of the Judges; and a paper of mine in the forthcoming volume of the Proceedings
of the Archæological Institute at Bristol.

H. T. ELLACOMBE.

Rectory, Clyst St. George.

From C. S. G.'s reply to my inquiry respecting Mr. Justice Newton I conclude that at least
two individuals of this name have, at different periods, and at a considerable interval apart,
occupied the judicial bench.

The portrait I wish to trace is of a well-known character of the Commonwealth era, and could
not, of course, have belonged to a judge then some two centuries deceased. My omission to state
this circumstance, in the first instance, has very naturally occasioned complete misapprehension
throughout.

