The respectability of Pepys was deeply grained.  He has no idea of truth except for the Diary.
He has no care that a thing shall be, if it but appear; gives out that he has inherited a good
estate, when he has seemingly got nothing but a lawsuit; and is pleased to be thought liberal
when he knows he has been mean.  He is conscientiously ostentatious. I say conscientiously,
with reason.  He could never have been taken for a fop, like Pen, but arrayed himself in a
manner nicely suitable to his position.  For long he hesitated to assume the famous periwig;
for a public man should travel gravely with the fashions not foppishly before, nor dowdily
behind, the central movement of his age.  For long he durst not keep a carriage; that, in his
circumstances would have been improper; but a time comes, with the growth of his fortune, when
the impropriety has shifted to the other side, and he is "ashamed to be seen in a hackney."
Pepys talked about being "a Quaker or some very melancholy thing;" for my part, I can imagine
nothing so melancholy, because nothing half so silly, as to be concerned about such problems.
But so respectability and the duties of society haunt and burden their poor devotees; and what
seems at first the very primrose path of life, proves difficult and thorny like the rest. 
And the time comes to Pepys, as to all the merely respectable, when he must not only order
his pleasures, but even clip his virtuous movements, to the public pattern of the age.  There
was some juggling among officials to avoid direct taxation; and Pepys, with a noble impulse,
growing ashamed of this dishonesty, designed to charge himself with 1000 pounds; but finding
none to set him an example, "nobody of our ablest merchants" with this moderate liking for
clean hands, he judged it "not decent;" he feared it would "be thought vain glory;" and, rather
than appear singular, cheerfully remained a thief.  One able merchant's countenance, and Pepys
had dared to do an honest act!  Had he found one brave spirit, properly recognised by society,
he might have gone far as a disciple.  Mrs. Turner, it is true, can fill him full of sordid
scandal, and make him believe, against the testimony of his senses, that Pen's venison pasty
stank like the devil; but, on the other hand, Sir William Coventry can raise him by a word
into another being.  Pepys, when he is with Coventry, talks in the vein of an old Roman. What
does he care for office or emolument?  "Thank God, I have enough of my own," says he, "to buy
me a good book and a good fiddle, and I have a good wife."  And again, we find this pair projecting
an old age when an ungrateful country shall have dismissed them from the field of public service;
Coventry living retired in a fine house, and Pepys dropping in, "it may be, to read a chapter
of Seneca."

Under this influence, the only good one in his life, Pepys continued zealous and, for the period,
pure in his employment.  He would not be "bribed to be unjust," he says, though he was "not
so squeamish as to refuse a present after," suppose the king to have received no wrong.  His
new arrangement for the victualling of Tangier he tells us with honest complacency, will save
the king a thousand and gain Pepys three hundred pounds a year, - a statement which exactly
fixes the degree of the age's enlightenment.  But for his industry and capacity no praise can
be too high.  It was an unending struggle for the man to stick to his business in such a garden
of Armida as he found this life; and the story of his oaths, so often broken, so courageously
renewed, is worthy rather of admiration that the contempt it has received.

Elsewhere, and beyond the sphere of Coventry's influence, we find him losing scruples and daily
complying further with the age.  When he began the journal, he was a trifle prim and puritanic;
merry enough, to be sure, over his private cups, and still remembering Magdalene ale and his
acquaintance with Mrs. Ainsworth of Cambridge.  But youth is a hot season with all; when a
man smells April and May he is apt at times to stumble; and in spite of a disordered practice,
Pepys's theory, the better things that he approved and followed after, we may even say were
strict.  Where there was "tag, rag, and bobtail, dancing, singing, and drinking," he felt "ashamed,
and went away;" and when he slept in church, he prayed God forgive him.  In but a little while
we find him with some ladies keeping each other awake "from spite," as though not to sleep
in church were an obvious hardship; and yet later he calmly passes the time of service, looking
about him, with a perspective glass, on all the pretty women.  His favourite ejaculation, "Lord!"
occurs but once that I have observed in 1660, never in `61, twice in '62, and at least five
times in '63; after which the "Lords" may be said to pullulate like herrings, with here and
there a solitary "damned," as it were a whale among the shoal.  He and his wife, once filled
with dudgeon by some innocent freedoms at a marriage, are soon content to go pleasuring with
my Lord Brouncker's mistress, who was not even, by his own account, the most discreet of mistresses.
Tag, rag, and bobtail, dancing, singing, and drinking, become his natural element; actors and
actresses and drunken, roaring courtiers are to be found in his society; until the man grew
so involved with Saturnalian manners and companions that he was shot almost unconsciously into
the grand domestic crash of 1668.

That was the legitimate issue and punishment of years of staggering walk and conversation.
The man who has smoked his pipe for half a century in a powder magazine finds himself at last
the author and the victim of a hideous disaster.  So with our pleasant-minded Pepys and his
peccadilloes.  All of a sudden, as he still trips dexterously enough among the dangers of a
double-faced career, thinking no great evil, humming to himself the trillo, Fate takes the
further conduct of that matter from his hands, and brings him face to face with the consequences
of his acts.  For a man still, after so many years, the lover, although not the constant lover,
of his wife, - for a man, besides, who was so greatly careful of appearances, - the revelation
of his infidelities was a crushing blow.  The tears that he shed, the indignities that he endured,
are not to be measured.  A vulgar woman, and now justly incensed, Mrs. Pepys spared him no
detail of suffering.  She was violent, threatening him with the tongs; she was careless of
his honour, driving him to insult the mistress whom she had driven him to betray and to discard;
worst of all, she was hopelessly inconsequent, in word and thought and deed, now lulling him
with reconciliations, and anon flaming forth again with the original anger.  Pepys had not
used his wife well; he had wearied her with jealousies, even while himself unfaithful; he had
grudged her clothes and pleasures, while lavishing both upon himself; he had abused her in
words; he had bent his fist at her in anger; he had once blacked her eye; and it is one of
the oddest particulars in that odd Diary of his, that, while the injury is referred to once
in passing, there is no hint as to the occasion or the manner of the blow.  But now, when he
is in the wrong, nothing can exceed the long-suffering affection of this impatient husband.
While he was still sinning and still undiscovered, he seems not to have known a touch of penitence
stronger than what might lead him to take his wife to the theatre, or for an airing, or to
give her a new dress, by way of compensation.  Once found out, however, and he seems to himself
to have lost all claim to decent usage.  It is perhaps the strongest instance of his externality.
His wife may do what she pleases, and though he may groan, it will never occur to him to blame
her; he has no weapon left but tears and the most abject submission.  We should perhaps have
respected him more had he not given way so utterly - above all, had he refused to write, under
his wife's dictation, an insulting letter to his unhappy fellow-culprit, Miss Willet; but somehow
I believe we like him better as he was.

The death of his wife, following so shortly after, must have stamped the impression of this
episode upon his mind.  For the remaining years of his long life we have no Diary to help us,
and we have seen already how little stress is to be laid upon the tenor of his correspondence;
but what with the recollection of the catastrophe of his married life, what with the natural
influence of his advancing years and reputation, it seems not unlikely that the period of gallantry
was at an end for Pepys; and it is beyond a doubt that he sat down at last to an honoured and
agreeable old age among his books and music, the correspondent of Sir Isaac Newton, and, in
one instance at least the poetical counsellor of Dryden.  Through all this period, that Diary
which contained the secret memoirs of his life, with all its inconsistencies and escapades,
had been religiously preserved; nor, when he came to die, does he appear to have provided for
its destruction.  So we may conceive him faithful to the end to all his dear and early memories;
still mindful of Mrs. Hely in the woods at Epsom; still lighting at Islington for a cup of
kindness to the dead; still, if he heard again that air that once so much disturbed him, thrilling
at the recollection of the love that bound him to his wife.

CHAPTER IX - JOHN KNOX AND HIS RELATIONS TO WOMEN

I. - THE CONTROVERSY ABOUT FEMALE RULE.

WHEN first the idea became widely spread among men that the Word of God, instead of being truly
the foundation of all existing institutions, was rather a stone which the builders had rejected,
it was but natural that the consequent havoc among received opinions should be accompanied
by the generation of many new and lively hopes for the future. Somewhat as in the early days
of the French Revolution, men must have looked for an immediate and universal improvement in
their condition.  Christianity, up to that time, had been somewhat of a failure politically.
The reason was now obvious, the capital flaw was detected, the sickness of the body politic
traced at last to its efficient cause.  It was only necessary to put the Bible thoroughly into
practice, to set themselves strenuously to realise in life the Holy Commonwealth, and all abuses
and iniquities would surely pass away.  Thus, in a pageant played at Geneva in the year 1523,
the world was represented as a sick man at the end of his wits for help, to whom his doctor
recommends Lutheran specifics. (1)  The Reformers themselves had set their affections in a
different world, and professed to look for the finished result of their endeavours on the other
side of death.  They took no interest in politics as such; they even condemned political action
as Antichristian: notably, Luther in the case of the Peasants' War.  And yet, as the purely
religious question was inseparably complicated with political difficulties, and they had to
make opposition, from day to day, against principalities and powers, they were led, one after
another, and again and again, to leave the sphere which was more strictly their own, and meddle,
for good and evil, with the affairs of State.  Not much was to be expected from interference
in such a spirit.  Whenever a minister found himself galled or hindered, he would be inclined
to suppose some contravention of the Bible.  Whenever Christian liberty was restrained (and
Christian liberty for each individual would be about coextensive with what he wished to do),
it was obvious that the State was Antichristian.  The great thing, and the one thing, was to
push the Gospel and the Reformers' own interpretation of it.  Whatever helped was good; whatever
hindered was evil; and if this simple classification proved inapplicable over the whole field,
it was no business of his to stop and reconcile incongruities.  He had more pressing concerns
on hand; he had to save souls; he had to be about his Father's business.  This short-sighted
view resulted in a doctrine that was actually Jesuitical in application.  They had no serious
ideas upon politics, and they were ready, nay, they seemed almost bound, to adopt and support
whichever ensured for the moment the greatest benefit to the souls of their fellow-men.  They
were dishonest in all sincerity. Thus Labitte, in the introduction to a book (2) in which he
exposes the hypocritical democracy of the Catholics under the League, steps aside for a moment
to stigmatise the hypocritical democracy of the Protestants.  And nowhere was this expediency
in political questions more apparent than about the question of female sovereignty.  So much
was this the case that one James Thomasius, of Leipsic, wrote a little paper (3) about the
religious partialities of those who took part in the controversy, in which some of these learned
disputants cut a very sorry figure.

(1) Gaberel's EGLIST DE GENEVE, i. 88. (2) LA DEMOCRATIE CHEZ LES PREDICATEURS DE LA LIGUE.
(3) HISTORIA AFFECTUUM SE IMMISCENTIUM CONTROVERSIAE DE GYNAECOCRATIA.  It is in his collected
prefaces, Leipsic, 1683.

Now Knox has been from the first a man well hated; and it is somewhat characteristic of his
luck that he figures here in the very forefront of the list of partial scribes who trimmed
their doctrine with the wind in all good conscience, and were political weathercocks out of
conviction.  Not only has Thomasius mentioned him, but Bayle has taken the hint from Thomasius,
and dedicated a long note to the matter at the end of his article on the Scotch Reformer. 
This is a little less than fair.  If any one among the evangelists of that period showed more
serious political sense than another, it was assuredly Knox; and even in this very matter of
female rule, although I do not suppose any one nowadays will feel inclined to endorse his sentiments,
I confess I can make great allowance for his conduct.  The controversy, besides, has an interest
of its own, in view of later controversies.

John Knox, from 1556 to 1559, was resident in Geneva, as minister, jointly with Goodman, of
a little church of English refugees.  He and his congregation were banished from England by
one woman, Mary Tudor, and proscribed in Scotland by another, the Regent Mary of Guise.  The
coincidence was tempting: here were many abuses centring about one abuse; here was Christ's
Gospel persecuted in the two kingdoms by one anomalous power.  He had not far to go to find
the idea that female government was anomalous.  It was an age, indeed, in which women, capable
and incapable, played a conspicuous part upon the stage of European history; and yet their
rule, whatever may have been the opinion of here and there a wise man or enthusiast, was regarded
as an anomaly by the great bulk of their contemporaries.  It was defended as an anomaly. It,
and all that accompanied and sanctioned it, was set aside as a single exception; and no one
thought of reasoning down from queens and extending their privileges to ordinary women. Great
ladies, as we know, had the privilege of entering into monasteries and cloisters, otherwise
forbidden to their sex. As with one thing, so with another.  Thus, Margaret of Navarre wrote
books with great acclamation, and no one, seemingly, saw fit to call her conduct in question;
but Mademoiselle de Gournay, Montaigne's adopted daughter, was in a controversy with the world
as to whether a woman might be an author without incongruity.  Thus, too, we have Theodore
Agrippa d'Aubigne writing to his daughters about the learned women of his century, and cautioning
them, in conclusion, that the study of letters was unsuited to ladies of a middling station,
and should be reserved for princesses. (1) And once more, if we desire to see the same principle
carried to ludicrous extreme, we shall find that Reverend Father in God the Abbot of Brantome,
claiming, on the authority of some lord of his acquaintance, a privilege, or rather a duty,
of free love for great princesses, and carefully excluding other ladies from the same gallant
dispensation. (2)  One sees the spirit in which these immunities were granted; and how they
were but the natural consequence of that awe for courts and kings that made the last writer
tell us, with simple wonder, how Catherine de Medici would "laugh her fill just like another"
over the humours of pantaloons and zanies.  And such servility was, of all things, what would
touch most nearly the republican spirit of Knox.  It was not difficult for him to set aside
this weak scruple of loyalty.  The lantern of his analysis did not always shine with a very
serviceable light; but he had the virtue, at least, to carry it into many places of fictitious
holiness, and was not abashed by the tinsel divinity that hedged kings and queens from his
contemporaries.  And so he could put the proposition in the form already mentioned: there was
Christ's Gospel persecuted in the two kingdoms by one anomalous power plainly, then, the "regiment
of women" was Antichristian.  Early in 1558 he communicated this discovery to the world, by
publishing at Geneva his notorious book - THE FIRST BLAST OF THE TRUMPET AGAINST THE MONSTROUS
REGIMENT OF WOMEN. (3)

(1) Oeuvres de d'Aubigne, i. 449. (2) Dames Illustres, pp. 358-360. (3) Works of John Knox,
iv. 349.

As a whole, it is a dull performance; but the preface, as is usual with Knox, is both interesting
and morally fine.  Knox was not one of those who are humble in the hour of triumph; he was
aggressive even when things were at their worst.  He had a grim reliance in himself, or rather
in his mission; if he were not sure that he was a great man, he was at least sure that he was
one set apart to do great things.  And he judged simply that whatever passed in his mind, whatever
moved him to flee from persecution instead of constantly facing it out, or, as here, to publish
and withhold his name from the title-page of a critical work, would not fail to be of interest,
perhaps of benefit, to the world.  There may be something more finely sensitive in the modern
humour, that tends more and more to withdraw a man's personality from the lessons he inculcates
or the cause that he has espoused; but there is a loss herewith of wholesome responsibility;
and when we find in the works of Knox, as in the Epistles of Paul, the man himself standing
nakedly forward, courting and anticipating criticism, putting his character, as it were, in
pledge for the sincerity of his doctrine, we had best waive the question of delicacy, and make
our acknowledgments for a lesson of courage, not unnecessary in these days of anonymous criticism,
and much light, otherwise unattainable, on the spirit in which great movements were initiated
and carried forward.  Knox's personal revelations are always interesting; and, in the case
of the "First Blast," as I have said, there is no exception to the rule.  He begins by stating
the solemn responsibility of all who are watchmen over God's flock; and all are watchmen (he
goes on to explain, with that fine breadth of spirit that characterises him even when, as here,
he shows himself most narrow), all are watchmen "whose eyes God doth open, and whose conscience
he pricketh to admonish the ungodly."  And with the full consciousness of this great duty before
him, he sets himself to answer the scruples of timorous or worldly-minded people.  How can
a man repent, he asks, unless the nature of his transgression is made plain to him?  "And therefore
I say," he continues, "that of necessity it is that this monstriferous empire of women (which
among all enormities that this day do abound upon the face of the whole earth, is most detestable
and damnable) be openly and plainly declared to the world, to the end that some may repent
and be saved."  To those who think the doctrine useless, because it cannot be expected to amend
those princes whom it would dispossess if once accepted, he makes answer in a strain that shows
him at his greatest.  After having instanced how the rumour of Christ's censures found its
way to Herod in his own court, "even so," he continues, "may the sound of our weak trumpet,
by the support of some wind (blow it from the south, or blow it from the north, it is of no
matter), come to the ears of the chief offenders.  BUT WHETHER IT DO OR NOT, YET DARE WE NOT
CEASE TO BLOW AS GOD WILL GIVE STRENGTH.  FOR WE ARE DEBTORS TO MORE THAN TO PRINCES, TO WIT,
TO THE GREAT MULTITUDE OF OUR BRETHREN, of whom, no doubt, a great number have heretofore offended
by error and ignorance."

It is for the multitude, then, he writes; he does not greatly hope that his trumpet will be
audible in palaces, or that crowned women will submissively discrown themselves at his appeal;
what he does hope, in plain English, is to encourage and justify rebellion; and we shall see,
before we have done, that he can put his purpose into words as roundly as I can put it for
him.  This he sees to be a matter of much hazard; he is not "altogether so brutish and insensible,
but that he has laid his account what the finishing of the work may cost."  He knows that he
will find many adversaries, since "to the most part of men, lawful and godly appeareth whatsoever
antiquity hath received."  He looks for opposition, "not only of the ignorant multitude, but
of the wise, politic, and quiet spirits of the earth."  He will be called foolish, curious,
despiteful, and a sower of sedition; and one day, perhaps, for all he is now nameless, he may
be attainted of treason.  Yet he has "determined to obey God, notwithstanding that the world
shall rage thereat."  Finally, he makes some excuse for the anonymous appearance of this first
instalment: it is his purpose thrice to blow the trumpet in this matter, if God so permit;
twice he intends to do it without name; but at the last blast to take the odium upon himself,
that all others may be purged.

Thus he ends the preface, and enters upon his argument with a secondary title: "The First Blast
to awake Women degenerate." We are in the land of assertion without delay.  That a woman should
bear rule, superiority, dominion or empire over any realm, nation, or city, he tells us, is
repugnant to nature, contumely to God, and a subversion of good order.  Women are weak, frail,
impatient, feeble, and foolish.  God has denied to woman wisdom to consider, or providence
to foresee, what is profitable to a commonwealth.  Women have been ever lightly esteemed; they
have been denied the tutory of their own sons, and subjected to the unquestionable sway of
their husbands; and surely it is irrational to give the greater where the less has been withheld,
and suffer a woman to reign supreme over a great kingdom who would be allowed no authority
by her own fireside.  He appeals to the Bible; but though he makes much of the first transgression
and certain strong texts in Genesis and Paul's Epistles, he does not appeal with entire success.
The cases of Deborah and Huldah can be brought into no sort of harmony with his thesis. Indeed,
I may say that, logically, he left his bones there; and that it is but the phantom of an argument
that he parades thenceforward to the end.  Well was it for Knox that he succeeded no better;
it is under this very ambiguity about Deborah that we shall find him fain to creep for shelter
before he is done with the regiment of women.  After having thus exhausted Scripture, and formulated
its teaching in the somewhat blasphemous maxim that the man is placed above the woman, even
as God above the angels, he goes on triumphantly to adduce the testimonies of Tertullian, Augustine,
Ambrose, Basil, Chrysostom, and the Pandects; and having gathered this little cloud of witnesses
about him, like pursuivants about a herald, he solemnly proclaims all reigning women to be
traitoresses and rebels against God; discharges all men thenceforward from holding any office
under such monstrous regiment, and calls upon all the lieges with one consent to "STUDY TO
REPRESS THE INORDINATE PRIDE AND TYRANNY" OF QUEENS.  If this is not treasonable teaching,
one would be glad to know what is; and yet, as if he feared he had not made the case plain
enough against himself, he goes on to deduce the startling corollary that all oaths of allegiance
must be incontinently broken.  If it was sin thus to have sworn even in ignorance, it were
obstinate sin to continue to respect them after fuller knowledge.  Then comes the peroration,
in which he cries aloud against the cruelties of that cursed Jezebel of England - that horrible
monster Jezebel of England; and after having predicted sudden destruction to her rule and to
the rule of all crowned women, and warned all men that if they presume to defend the same when
any "noble heart" shall be raised up to vindicate the liberty of his country, they shall not
fail to perish themselves in the ruin, he concludes with a last rhetorical flourish: "And therefore
let all men be advertised, for THE TRUMPET HATH ONCE BLOWN."

The capitals are his own.  In writing, he probably felt the want of some such reverberation
of the pulpit under strong hands as he was wont to emphasise his spoken utterances withal;
there would seem to him a want of passion in the orderly lines of type; and I suppose we may
take the capitals as a mere substitute for the great voice with which he would have given it
forth, had we heard it from his own lips. Indeed, as it is, in this little strain of rhetoric
about the trumpet, this current allusion to the fall of Jericho, that alone distinguishes his
bitter and hasty production, he was probably right, according to all artistic canon, thus to
support and accentuate in conclusion the sustained metaphor of a hostile proclamation.  It
is curious, by the way, to note how favourite an image the trumpet was with the Reformer. 
He returns to it again and again; it is the Alpha and Omega of his rhetoric; it is to him what
a ship is to the stage sailor; and one would almost fancy he had begun the world as a trumpeter's
apprentice.  The partiality is surely characteristic.  All his life long he was blowing summonses
before various Jerichos, some of which fell duly, but not all.  Wherever he appears in history
his speech is loud, angry, and hostile; there is no peace in his life, and little tenderness;
he is always sounding hopefully to the front for some rough enterprise.

And as his voice had something of the trumpet's hardness, it had something also of the trumpet's
warlike inspiration.  So Randolph, possibly fresh from the sound of the Reformer's preaching,
writes of him to Cecil:- "Where your honour exhorteth us to stoutness, I assure you the voice
of one man is able, in an hour, to put more life in us than six hundred trumpets continually
blustering in our ears." (1)

(1) M'Crie's LIFE OF KNOX, ii. 41.

