But it will be said that instinct is not invariable,--that it often displays a capacity of
accommodating itself, like reason, to circumstances, and is therefore a principle the same
in kind with it,--or else that the animal has something of the rational faculty superadded
to the instinctive. But does the animal make these variations in its conduct from a true perception
of their meaning and purpose?

It is very natural for us to ascribe to reason those actions of other animals which would be
ascribable to reason, if performed by man. "If," says Keller, (an old German writer,) "the
fly be enabled to choose the place which suits her best for the deposition of her eggs, (as,
for instance, in my sugar-basin, in which I placed a quantity of decaying wheat,) she takes
a correct survey of every part and selects that in which she believes her ova will be the best
preserved and her young ones well cared for." The fly, in this instance, apparently exercises
an intelligent choice; but does any one doubt that the selection she makes is determined wholly
by a blind, uncalculating instinct? The beaver selects a site for his dam at a place where
the depth, width, and rapidity of the stream are most fit. There is a tree upon the bank, and
food and materials for his work in the vicinity. If a man should attempt to build a beaver's
dam, he would abstractly consider all these elements of fitness. The outward manifestations
of the quality of abstraction are equally observable in either case. But we must not hastily
conclude, because the beaver in one instance acts in a manner apparently reasonable, that he
has any reason of his own; for, when we come to study the habits of this animal, we find that
he displays all the characteristics of the instinctive principle. If animals are endowed with
instincts which apparently act so much like reason in the ordinary course of their operations,
we should not at once conclude that there is any need of endowing them with a modicum of reason
to account for their deviations from this course, which do not outwardly resemble the acts
of reason any more strongly. And besides, it is said, that, if we refer the variations to an
intelligent principle, we must refer the ordinary conduct to the same principle. To use an
old illustration,--if a bird is reasonable and intelligent, when, on perceiving the swollen
waters of the stream approach her half-finished nest, she builds higher up the bank, she was
intelligent while making her first nest, and was always intelligent; for how otherwise, it
is asked, could she know when to lay down instinct and take up reason?

Instinct aims at certain definite ends; but these ends cannot always be reached by the same
means, especially when places and circumstances are not the same. Accommodation is necessary,
or it could not always produce the effects for which it is intended. Would the instinct of
the spider be complete, if, after it has guided her to spin a web so neat and trim and regular,
it did not also lead her to repair her broken snare, when the cords have been sundered by the
struggles of some powerful captive? But this pliancy of the spider's instinct is no more remarkable
than the contingent operation of the instincts of many species of animals. "It is remarkable,"
says Kirby, "that many of the insects which are occasionally observed to emigrate are not usually
social animals, but seem to congregate, like swallows, merely for the purpose of emigration."
When certain rare emergencies occur, which render it necessary for the insects to migrate,
a contingent instinct develops itself, and renders an unsocial species gregarious.

It is probable that most of our domesticated species, exhibiting as they do in that condition
attainments foreign to their natural habits and faculties in a wild state, were endowed with
provisional instincts with a view to their association with man. But generally the docility
of animals does not extend to attainments which are radically different from their habits and
faculties in a wild state. Casual acquirements, which have no relation to their exigencies
in their natural condition, never become hereditary, and are not, therefore, instinctive. A
young pointer-dog, which has never been in the fields before, will not only point at a covey
of partridges, but will remain motionless, like a well-trained dog. The fact that the sagacity
of the pointer is hereditary shows that it is the development of an instinctive propensity;
for simple knowledge is not transmitted by blood from one generation to another. We have heard
of a pig that pointed game, and of another that was learned in letters; but we ascertain in
every such instance that their foreign acquirements do not reappear in their progeny, but end
with the pupils of the time being. The pig's peculiarity of pointing did not arise from the
development of a provisional instinct, because it does not become hereditary; but the same
act in the pointer-dog is instinctive,--for, when once brought out by associating with man,
it has remained with the breed, being a part of the animal's nature, which existed in embryo
till it was developed by a companionship with man, for whose use this faculty was alone intended.

Although the animals which especially display these exceptional or contingent instincts are
those which are fitted for the use and comfort of man and may be domesticated, it is doubtless
true that many other species are in some degree provided with them, and that they thus have
a plasticity in their nature which enables them to exercise, under particular circumstances,
unlooked-for attention, foresight, and caution. And besides, it is only in analogy with the
laws of the physical world that instinct should admit of a slightly diversified application.

It is to be noticed in this connection that many animals are gifted with a wonderful sensibility
of the senses,--the action of which is sometimes mistaken not only for the action of instinct,
but for that of reason also. The acuteness of the sense of smell in the dog, which enables
him to trace the steps of his master for miles through crowded streets by the infinitesimal
odor which his footsteps left upon the pavement, is quite beyond our conception. Equally incomprehensible
to us are the keenness of sight and wide range of vision of the eagle, which enable him to
discover the rabbit nipping the clover amid the thick grass at a distance at which a like object
would be to us altogether imperceptible. The chameleon is enabled to seize the little insects
upon which it feeds by darting forth its wonderfully constructed tongue with such rapidity
and with such delicacy of perception that "wonder-loving sages" have told us that it feeds
upon the air.

