Schillie imagined, from the peculiar way in which Pirate Hall was built, they meant to use
it as a storehouse, and that probably the vessel would return, take off the ten men, now our
neighbours, and only visit the island when they had to store away their ill-gotten gains, or
from bad weather. I agreed with her, and further added, that probably the old house had been
built for the same purpose, but that their rendezvous had been disturbed by the extraordinary
snake which had been so nearly fatal to us. Now that it was dead they were again making use
of the island, and we must be prepared for this and any other disagreeable occurrence that
their proximity to us would cause.

Madame hoped that if they really took permanent possession of the island, we might in some
manner contrive to quit it, either through their ships and boats, or from my brother's ship,
which we knew had been stationed on the South American Coast, for the purpose of exterminating
the pirates, and discovering their hordes. And if he ever pursued one, in endeavouring to reach
this island, he might be led on after them, and so discover us.

I doubted their permitting so safe and convenient a spot being discovered. However time would
show, and without any event occurring, that could be interesting to others than ourselves,
time brought the pirate's vessel back again. Henceforward its visits were at all times and
all hours, never staying above a day when it did come, then all hands worked hard to unload
and refit again. Sometimes everybody went in it. Sometimes two or three remained behind. And
it was on one of these occasions we had a most dreadful fright. Hearing a noise amongst the
brushwood at the top of the cavern, we found out in a minute, one or all of the pirates were
up there. Almost before the thought rushed through us, there was a crash, a whizzing through
the air, and the large heavy body of one of the men fell into the midst of us, and lay there
a shapeless bloody mass. Voices were immediately heard, calling to the man, and cautioning
each other to beware. We heard the axe cutting away the brushwood, which fell in the cavern
amongst us, and fancied faces were peeping down upon us, to see what had occurred to their
companion. We stood and sat motionless. They called to him, and speculated on his fate, and
wondered that they heard nothing from him. What should we do, if they discovered our ladders.
It seemed however that they were too much alarmed at the unknown fate of their companion, to
hazard their lives in search of him, but left the place, saying something about ropes and a
further search.

And now what were we do? Here we were with the great body of a pirate in the midst of us, who,
though dead, inspired us with almost as much horror and terror, as if alive. What could we
do with the crushed and horrid remains. This seemed to oppress us the most, and in thinking
who was to touch and move it, we lost sight of the danger we incurred from the other pirates
coming back to look for the body.

Mother.--"Well! Schillie, what must we do?"

Schillie.--"I shall not touch the beast!"

Madame.--"The sight is frightful, I really must retire."

The three girls hung aloof, the little ones had hidden themselves out of sight. Though I said
nothing, I looked at Hargrave and Jenny.

Hargrave (very mysteriously).--"I hassure you, Ma'am, I am not haccustomed, that is, Ma'am,
it is no business of mine. I ham not in the 'abits of touching corpses and hexcuse me, Ma'am,
this is so very--oh dear me whathever 'as come hover me. I shall faint, I know."

Jenny (very pale and resolute).--"I think, Ma'am, if I rolled it up in a sheet, we might drag
it between us to some distant cavern, and bury it in the sand."

Oscar.--"No, Jenny, we must cut him in pieces, and carry him out bit by bit into the sea."

Felix.--"Yes, here is his own saw, that I took away the last time we were at his house. He
is only a pirate, Jenny, and quite dead; so, saw away!"

Jenny.--"Oh, Master Felix, I did not think you had the heart to be so cruel."

Oscar.--"Cruel! don't be absurd, Jenny. You don't care a bit for cutting off the heads of the
chickens so why should you mind cutting up this great brute."

Jenny.--"Oh! Sir, you really must excuse me, I cannot do it, even to please you."

Our dilemma was really growing most painful. "Can one bury him here, as he is, without touching
him?" said I. "Oh no, Mother," said Oscar. "We could never endure the place knowing this body
was buried in it. Besides, see where he has fallen just where we dine. At all events, if you
will none of you touch him, and he must be buried here, let us seek another cavern to live
in, one nearer the waterfall."

"Shall we follow Otty's advice," said I to the others, "it seems the only thing we can do,
but it is horrible."

"Cover up those unsightly remains, and let us begone," said Schillie, "the place is getting
horrible even now."

We ran for every sort of thing we could find to shovel the sand over him, and though very soon
out of sight, we worked harder and harder, as if the more sand we put over him, the more we
drove from us the horrible sight. We then recollected the ladders, and Gatty and Serena ran
up, and let them down, and then swung themselves down by a rope, which we fastened at the side
of the cavern, in such a manner as to be hardly apparent, and certainly of no use.

For a full hour after we had done, the children were throwing more sand on the great Tumulus
now before us, while we moved as many of our things as we could to another cavern, smaller,
less convenient, and darker. We were so busy, that we forgot the pirates might come back, and
were therefore electrified at the sound of their voices above. They called once or twice to
the dead man, now buried many feet in sand, and of course receiving no answer, we found they
were preparing to let a man down.

"Oh! Mother," said Oscar, "let us stone him well as he comes down, and that will frighten him."
"And let us hiss like snakes," said Felix, "and he'll think he has got into a nest of big snakes."
"Capital," said Gatty, "it will be glorious fun." "No, we must shoot him," said Schillie. "No,
no, little Mother, do let us stone him, and hiss him out," said all the little ones, and they
ran to collect stones.

"Indeed, Schillie, I think the children's idea a very good one. If he is well stoned he won't
come down, and if we hiss they will certainly think us snakes and, being already fearful about
them, who knows but the fear of their being in the caverns of the island may drive them all away."

Schillie.--"Did ever any one hear of anything so silly. As if a man with an ounce of brains
would be taken in by such a child's trick as this."

Oscar.--"Then keep the guns ready, cousin, and you and I will have a shot at him if necessary."

"Agreed," said she. "Now make haste, every one hide in different corners; he is coming down."

Most of this conversation was, of course, in whispers. Gatty was to give the signal for the
stoning operations by her most accomplished hiss.

A sudden burst of daylight; he was cutting the brushwood away to investigate as far as he could
before descending. We were all like silent mice. Three hairy faces peered down. We shivered,
and picked up the biggest stones. Now then he is coming, they say all right in Spanish, and
he requests they will let him down very slowly. Now we see his legs, now his body, now the
whole of him. Why does not Gatty give the signal? Lower and lower, I must hiss in a minute
if she does not; at last he is fairly half way down. A great hiss, a perfect hurricane of hisses
ensues, and a shower of stones aimed with such right goodwill that the man roared again. In
their start and alarm above they had let him slip down suddenly a few feet, but his violent
cries and entreaties to be drawn up were quickly attended to, and, amidst incessant hitting,
and such a volley of stones that I do not think one inch of his body escaped a bruise, he disappeared
from our sight.

We heard him groaning and moaning above, while the others questioned him. He was too much stunned
however to say anything as far as we could make it out, and presently we found they were lowering
him down from the cliffs near Cartref Pellenig, as the easiest way of getting him home.

From our peep-holes we had the satisfaction of seeing our enemy in a deplorable state, and
apparently insensible, which Gatty averred was her performance, as she aimed particularly at
his head.

As Madame observed, a most unladylike proceeding!

CHAPTER XXXIII.

We were some time in learning what effect our stratagem had had upon the pirates. On our parts
we were delighted at the scheme succeeding so wonderfully, and dubbed the hero of it "The Knight
of the Descending Ladder." They kept very close, and we saw but little of them until the ship
returned. Then, indeed, there was a great row, and we saw the unfortunate "Knight" brought
out on a sort of board, apparently to tell his tale, which must have been very wonderful to
judge by their amazement. He seemed very ill indeed, and while some of us expressed a little
sorrow for him, there were a few who wondered how he dare be still alive after their incredible
exertions to kill him.

Schillie declared she had a great contempt now for the pirates, since they had been deceived
and frightened by such children's play, and began to speculate upon getting rid of them all
by degrees through working on their fears, and a sparing use of the gun.

Mother.--"Nothing surprises me so much as the change in your character. Formerly you scolded
me for even killing a wasp (that allowed enemy to man and fruit), and yet now you coolly talk
of shooting pirates as if it was a common morning's amusement."

Schillie.--"I shall not be happy as long as these wretches remain, especially as it only requires
an earthquake to expose us to view. And now that they have got some notion (fools as they are)
that the island is not without its dangers, we may as well follow it up, and, whoever they
leave behind this time we must take care they never see again."

Mother.--"What! you mean to kill and bury them before the others return. I think it a very
good plan, and it will effectually frighten them away if they come back two or three times,
and on each return find those they have left here gone, without a trace of their disappearance.
But I can never persuade myself that there is one amongst our party who can deliberately go
and shoot a man in cold blood who has never done them any harm."

Schillie.--"Pooh! pooh! just put yourself into their power for a day, and I'll be bound you
come back quite ready to do anything to get rid of them. Such a set of wretches I never saw."

Jenny (smiling and smirking to me).--"And yet, Ma'am, they thought so much of Mrs. E. that
time we were with them. The captain could not take his eyes off her."

We all laughed heartily at this, and congratulated Schillie on her conquest, while I added
that I could easily perceive now why she was irritated against the pirates.

This put her into a great fit of the sulks, and I do not know with whom she would not have
quarrelled if our conversation had not been put an end to by Oscar and Felix.

Oscar.--"Oh Mother, they are unloading the ship, and they have got some prisoners."

Felix.--"And, oh Mother, one poor prisoner is so wounded he is lame."

Oscar.--"And, Mother, we saw them bound, carried out of the boat."

Felix.--"And, oh Mother, they beat their poor prisoners, and one is lame."

Oscar.--"And, Mother, they are driving them up to Pirate Hall, and, Mother, we must----"

Felix.--"Oh Mother, we must----"

Oscar.--"Yes, yes, we must----"

Felix.--"Oh Mother, say yes, say yes."

Gatty.--"Release them! of course, glorious boys, we will. Have I not often released you two
when playing at 'Prisoners base.'"

Sybil.--"Poor, poor fellows, we must try to help them."

Mother.--"This is news indeed! and I quite agree with all your feelings. But, children, you
must let us think. Imagine what dangers you run."

Oscar.--"But, Mother, the poor prisoners!"

Felix.--"And, oh Mother, perhaps they will eat them, as Friday was going to be eaten."

Gatty.--"Pray, pray, do let us try to release them."

Sybil.--"Once they were safe in here we could soon make them well."

Serena.--"And then, being men, they will help us to fight against the pirates, and kill them all."

Mother.--"That will be very nice indeed. Schillie, these prisoners seem just sent in the nick
of time to do the work I doubted our accomplishing."

Schillie.--"I think you and the children all a little cracked together, and have no doubt you
will instantly march out in a body, give battle, and return victorious, carrying the prisoners
in triumph, and decorated with the bloody heads of your enemies."

Gatty.--"You don't mean to say, little Mother, you would not help to get those two poor prisoners
out of the murderous hands of these pirates?"

Felix.--"And one quite lame!"

Oscar.--"And perhaps they will eat them up."

Schillie.--"Pooh! pooh! brats, don't set up such a howling. Who said I was not ready to go
to the rescue? Am I not your commander-in-chief? and are you not bound to obey your general?
I only beg simply for the same grace your Mother asked for, namely, a little thought to settle
our plans."

Madame.--"Oh, my dear Mrs. E., I had hoped from your knowledge of the world, and general good
sense, that you would have calmed the young people's excited minds. Consider what risks we
should run in releasing these people, and the inconvenience of having strangers and men attached
to our party, living in the strange way we do."

Schillie.--"Madame, I consider but one thing; these two poor men are in the hands of the pirates
and, rescued from their jaws they shall be, if I can do it."

Such a clapping of hands, and shouts of approbation arose on this speech that I was in mortal
fear lest we should be heard.

Leaving the girls and children to argue the point with Madame, who had only Hargrave on her
side, Schillie and I retired to talk over the matter, for it was really too grave a subject
to be discussed with the same publicity that every other thing underwent in our community.

And it did require great deliberation, for, after all, it was a mad thing, a parcel of weak
women and children thinking they could out-do thirty-two ruffian pirates. To be sure we had
some great advantages, but, after all, what we should lose in the event of this act of philanthropy
failing was everything, and for two strangers! who might turn out to be what Schillie called
very uncomfortable people. And, besides, we had every prospect before us of out-witting the
pirates, and finally getting rid of them. I own I began to be dubious, but my companion was
firm, and wound-up by saying, "Mind I expect a solemn promise if we fail that you put a pistol
to my head rather than let me fall into the hands of that fellow." I smiled maliciously, saying,
"What the King of the Pirates?" "King of Horrors," said she, "don't forget now." "Then Jenny's
story was true about his admiration of you," returned I. "Jenny's a goose, and you are another.
If you mention him again I'll leave you, and go and settle in another part of the island."

In settling our plans for the release of the prisoners we were very much fettered by not being
able to let them know what schemes we were making for their benefit. Also of what language
and nation they were.

