"You men are so selfish," went on Hilda. "You would take everything from us. Why can't you
leave us the poor little privilege of the occasional deciding touch, the privilege of succor.
It is all that weakness can do for strength."

"And why," she went on after a moment, "why is not that, too, a part of a man's success--the
gathering about him of people who can and will supplement his efforts. Who was it inspired
Wallace Carpenter with confidence in an unknown man? You. What did it? Those very qualities
by which you were building your success. Why did John Radway join forces with you? How does
it happen that your men are of so high a standard of efficiency? Why am I willing to give you
everything, EVERYTHING, to my heart and soul? Because it is you who ask it. Because you, Harry
Thorpe, have woven us into your fortune, so that we have no choice. Depend upon us in the crises
of your work! Why, so are you dependent on your ten fingers, your eyes, the fiber of your brain!
Do you think the less of your fulfillment for that?"

So it was that Hilda Farrand gave her lover confidence, brought him out from his fanaticism,
launched him afresh into the current of events. He remained in Chicago all that summer, giving
orders that all work at the village of Carpenter should cease. With his affairs that summer
we have little to do. His common-sense treatment of the stock market, by which a policy of
quiescence following an outright buying of the stock which he had previously held on margins,
retrieved the losses already sustained, and finally put both partners on a firm financial footing.
That is another story. So too is his reconciliation with and understanding of his sister. It
came about through Hilda, of course. Perhaps in the inscrutable way of Providence the estrangement
was of benefit,--even necessary, for it had thrown him entirely within himself during his militant
years.

Let us rather look to the end of the summer. It now became a question of re-opening the camps.
Thorpe wrote to Shearer and Radway, whom he had retained, that he would arrive on Saturday
noon, and suggested that the two begin to look about for men. Friday, himself, Wallace Carpenter,
Elizabeth Carpenter, Morton, Helen Thorpe, and Hilda Farrand boarded the north-bound train.

Chapter LX

The train of the South Shore Railroad shot its way across the broad reaches of the northern
peninsula. On either side of the right-of-way lay mystery in the shape of thickets so dense
and overgrown that the eye could penetrate them but a few feet at most. Beyond them stood the
forests. Thus Nature screened her intimacies from the impertinent eye of a new order of things.

Thorpe welcomed the smell of the northland. He became almost eager, explaining, indicating
to the girl at his side.

"There is the Canada balsam," he cried. "Do you remember how I showed it to you first? And
yonder the spruce. How stuck up your teeth were when you tried to chew the gum before it had
been heated. Do you remember? Look! Look there! It's a white pine! Isn't it a grand tree? It's
the finest tree in the forest, by my way of thinking, so tall, so straight, so feathery, and
so dignified. See, Hilda, look quick! There's an old logging road all filled with raspberry
vines. We'd find lots of partridges there, and perhaps a bear. Wouldn't you just like to walk
down it about sunset?"

"Yes, Harry."

