Variant spelling, dialect, and unusual punctuation have been retained.

SEAWANHAKA, THE ISLAND OF SHELLS.

It is not by any means certain what was the name by which Long Island was known to the aboriginal
dwellers in its "forest primeval," or indeed that they ever had a common name by which to designate
it. It seems probable that each tribe bestowed upon it a different name, expressive of the
aspect that appeared most striking to its primitive and poetical visitors and occupants. Among
so many tribes--the Canarsees (who met Hudson when on September 4, 1609, he anchored in Gravesend
Bay), the Rockaways, Nyacks, Merrikokes, Matinecocs, Marsapeagues, Nissaquages, Corchaugs,
Setaukets, Secataugs, Montauks, Shinecocs, Patchogues, and Manhansetts, to say nothing of the
Pequots and Narragansetts on the northern shore of the Sound--a community of usage in regard
to nomenclature could hardly be expected. We accordingly find that one of the old names of
the island was Mattenwake, a compound of Mattai, the Delaware for "island." It was also called
Paumanacke (the Indian original of the prosaic Long Island), Mattanwake (the Narragansett word
for "good" or "pleasant land"), Pamunke and Meitowax. For a name, however, at once beautiful
and suggestive, appropriate to an island whose sunny shores are strewn with shells, and recalling
Indian feuds and customs, savage ornament and tributes paid in wampum, no name equals that
we have chosen--Seawanhaka or Seawanhackee, the "Island of Shells."

No general description will give an adequate idea of its changing beauty and wellnigh infinite
variety. Its scenery assumes a thousand different aspects between odoriferous Greenpoint and
the solitary grandeur of Montauk. If one could only recall the old stagecoach, and, instead
of whirling in a few hours from New York to Sag Harbor, creep slowly along the southern shore,
and complete the journey of one hundred and ten miles in two days and a half, as they did fifty
years ago, a description of the route would be both easy and interesting. Then the old stage
lumbered out of Brooklyn about nine o'clock in the morning, a halt was made at Hempstead for
dinner, and at Babylon the passengers slept. Starting early, they arrived in due time at Patchogue,
where they breakfasted late, and thereby saved their dinner, and at Quogue, about twenty-four
miles farther, they supped and slept. Again making an early start without breakfast, they jogged
along to Southampton, where the morning meal was taken, and thus fortified they returned to
their seats, and, passing through the beautiful country lying around Water Mill and Bridgehampton,
rattled into Sag Harbor--a far different place from the Sag Harbor of to-day--and there dined.
Fortunately, the rest of the route remains to us, and we can still "stage it" down the old
and beautiful road to Easthampton. A leisurely journey of this description, at an average rate
of a fraction less than two miles an hour, and with abundant opportunity of getting out for
a brisk walk as the horses dragged their cumbrous load over an occasional sandhill, gave the
traveller a chance of seeing the country he passed through. Long Island lay before him like
a book, every line of which he could read at leisure. He could wander along the shore of the
bay at Babylon, and mayhap meditate upon the beauty of Nature while looking at the moonlight
sleeping on the water: he could at Quogue seek his way across the meadows and gaze upon the
troubled face of the ocean. We can do so still, but these pleasures are no longer to be counted
among the fascinating interludes of continuous travel. They are not the accompaniments of a
long journey that gave it a flavor of romance, and made a trip to Sag Harbor and return the
employment of an eventful and delightful week.

To adapt ourselves to modern conditions, and as we must view Long Island in sections to appreciate
it as a whole, a route may be chosen in which, by using both railroad and stage, we may see
even more of it, and that to greater advantage, than the old-time traveller. It is necessary,
in the first place, that something should be seen of the northern shore. In character and associations
it differs widely from the southern. There is, in the second place, the central section, in
avoiding which much of the rural and most placid beauty of the island would be lost. There
is, thirdly, the southern shore, varied in itself according as the point at which it is viewed
lies on the ocean or on the landlocked bays between Hempstead and Mecoc, and extending to the
rugged headland of Montauk. We shall thus, by passing from point to point, see as in a panorama
all that need now attract our attention in viewing Seawanhaka.

The place which the Indians named Cumsewogue is now mainly distinguished by the cemetery of
Cedar Hill. Passing among the graves, we reach the summit, and a wonderful scene bursts upon
our view. Looking north toward where the village is nestling in a hollow surrounded by woods,
the waters of Port Jefferson Bay are lying without a visible ripple; the sails of the ships
passing up and down the Sound gleam in the sun; and beyond them, like a hazy line, are the
shores of Connecticut. On the left are glimpses of farmhouses, the church-spires of Setauket,
and rolling fields alternating with woods. On the right are more woods, bounded far away by
the broken shore of the cliff-bound Sound. The wooded peninsula in front that stretches to
the north, forming the eastern shore of Port Jefferson Bay, was named by the old Puritan settlers--for
what reason it would be hard to divine--Mount Misery. It is now, fortunately, more generally
known in the neighborhood by the name of the Strong estate of Oakwood. Sea, shore, woods and
valleys make up a picturesque scene of peaceful beauty, and one forgets in the presence of
its living charms that the site upon which he stands is within the limits of a city of the dead.

We descend into the village--which lies as if in a slumber that has lasted for a century and
a half--at the head of the bay. The Indians named the place Souwassett, and the Puritans, in
their usual matter-of-fact manner, called it Drowned Meadow. Its present name was adopted about
forty years ago, probably in a patriotic mood, and also in the belief that the name it then
bore was too unqualified and likely to give rise to unwarrantable prejudices. That there was
some truth, if there was neither beauty nor imagination, in the name, is, however, evident
from the marsh-lands lying between the village and Dyer's Neck or Poquott, which divides the
harbor from that of Setauket on the west. One of the old landmarks of the village, dating from
about the first quarter of the last century, is the house built by the Roe family when the
settlement was first made. It now forms part of the Townsend house, and is still occupied by
collateral descendants of its builder. Accessions to the little colony came slowly. Even the
fine harbor could not compensate for the disadvantages of Drowned Meadow for building purposes,
and the hillsides are steep and rocky. But about 1797, when it is said there were only half
a dozen houses in the village, shipbuilding was begun, and its subsequent rise was comparatively
rapid.

Securely though it seems to repose among its wood-crowned hills, it has had at least one exciting
episode in its history. During the war of 1812 its shipping suffered considerably at the hands
of King George's cruisers, and one night the enemy entered the harbor and captured seven sloops
that were lying there at anchor. Otherwise, life at Port Jefferson appears to have been as
it is now, unexciting and peaceful. Its attractions are in part those of association, but chiefly
those of Nature--its sandy shore, its still woods and its placid bay. It is a place to fly
to when the only conception of immediate happiness is to be still, to float idly upon water
that has no waves to detract from the perfection of a dream of absolute rest, or to seek shelter
and eloquent quiet in deep and shady woods. There are several winding paths that lead up the
hilly promontory of Oakwood, and there are clearings upon the high ground swept over by breezes
from the Sound where one can look upon rural scenes as perfect in their way as imagination
can picture.

To the west of the village, pathways lead through the woods and past many ruined and ruinous
cabins. The latter are chiefly occupied by negroes, who enjoy the sweets of liberty in these
sequestered nooks. It is questionable if emancipation in any way bettered their condition.
The Dutch introduced slaves into Long Island immediately upon settling on its western extremity,
but it is said upon good authority--and the fact is a notable one in the history of the island--that
slavery never existed there except in name. The work of the farms and houses was divided with
the utmost impartiality among the nominal slaves and the white men and boys of the household.
Possibly, then, there is not only no dark background to the lives of these Port Jefferson negroes,
but one that in comfort and happiness is a contrast to the present. One little fellow--a darkling
he should be called--peeped out shyly as we passed, and then disappeared in a hut which, though
embowered in creeping plants and bushes, did not suggest either comfort or beauty when the
trees are bare and the winds of winter are moaning through the woods. Beyond these cabins the
path leads to the pebbly and shell-covered shore of Poquott.

To the east of Port Jefferson the shore runs in bolder outline to Orient Point, but within
thirty or forty miles to the west there are innumerable points and well-sheltered bays and
inlets that give the scenery the same picturesque character that is found at Port Jefferson.
It may be taken, in short, as representing the northern side of the island.

When the shore is left a few miles behind the country assumes an entirely different aspect.
The roads run through a wide tract covered as far as the eye can see with young timber and
brushwood. In places the charred trunks give evidence that it has at no distant period been
passed over by a forest-fire. The view to the south is bounded by the low range of hills that
runs nearly the entire length of the island. In a hollow in this rising ground, a few miles
east of Comac Hills, about two miles north-east of Mount Pleasant and near the eastern continuation
of the Comac range, we drop suddenly upon the most charming of the lakes of Long Island--Ronkonkoma.
It matters little from which side it is approached or from what point it is viewed--Lake Ronkonkoma
is in every way and in every aspect beautiful. Around it on all sides is an undulating country
comprising both woodland and farm, and dotted with quaint old houses of the many-gabled order,
and a few that affect a certain latter-day primness. The architectural patriarchs and juveniles
represent two different orders of things. The first tell of the early colonists of two hundred
years ago making their way through the dense woods from the northern shore, and choosing dwellings
by the lake where the land was good. The latter tell of later settlers, attracted solely by
the beauty and salubrity of the place. There is one house still standing on the east side of
the lake, a weather-beaten veteran of a century and a half. It has been in the same family
ever since it was built, and if its walls were as eloquent of facts as they are of sentiment,
it could no doubt unfold a varied tale. The place has, of course, a history based upon Indian
times. Where we now see boats and skiffs, canoes were once paddled, and the lonely seclusion
of the lake is said to have made it the theme of many an Indian story. Only one legend now
survives. The lake has always been, and is now, well stocked with fish, and it is in places
so deep that the Indians thought it unfathomable. With a curious kind of veneration they believed
that the Great Spirit brought the fish that swarm in its waters, and kept them under his special
care. Even when the whites came upon the scene the red men clung to their superstition, and
would not catch nor eat the fish, believing them to be superior beings.

A change has come over the spot since that day. The land near the lake has been partially cleared,
but not to such an extent as to divest it of any of its early beauty. A fringe of trees encloses
it on all sides except the north, where a narrow belt of sand divides it from a lily pond.
It is from that feature, and from the glistening western shore, that the lake was called Ronkonkoma
(Sand Pond). At the point where it first bursts upon the traveller from the south it is seen
gleaming through the trees like a diamond in a robe of green. Standing upon its margin, we
are about fifty feet above the sea, and the cool wind that is rustling among the trees comes
fresh from the Great South Bay, seven miles away. To right and left are high tree-covered banks,
and to the north across the lake, about a mile off, the white sand is shining like a line of
silver. The trees above the eastern shore are reflected as in a mirror, and the little boat
with its snowy sail is there in duplicate, itself and double.

But, to be seen at its best, Ronkonkoma should be viewed from one of the higher points along
its eastern shore when the sun is sloping down the western sky. One memorable evening this
view was so beautiful as to be almost unearthly. The sun had sunk behind a heavy cloud-bank,
which it tipped with a dull tawny red. By and by the sky began to change. The cloud sank lower,
and lay upon the horizon in a perfectly black mass that threw its shadow upon the landscape.
Its lining had deepened in color to a blood-red, and the clouds higher up the arch of the sky
were ringed with a rich crimson border. Higher still they shaded off into paler tints, mingled
with a copper-like hue that merged in the lighter clouds into gold. Above these were fleecy,
rounded fragments of cloud floating over the deep blue like burnished brass upon lapis lazuli;
and higher yet, about midway to the zenith, every cloudlet was tinged with pale yellow. Could
such a sky be represented on canvas it would be condemned as unnatural--a case of the painter's
imagination carrying him beyond the limits of true art. But it was from the reflection in the
lake that the scene derived its weird, supernatural character. The shadows lay heavily upon
the trees and bank that line the western shore. Upon the edge of the waters, which were so
still that not a ripple waved the line drawn upon the white streak of sand, the deep red of
the cloud upon the horizon reappeared. Nearer were the graduated tints of crimson, copper,
gold, brass and pale yellow, every hue mirrored in the crystal lake with a fidelity so perfect
that one was in doubt whether the reality or the reflection were the more gorgeous.

To the east and west of the lake, for twenty miles on either side of it, stretches a pleasant
tract, chiefly of rolling woodland, with here and there a farm or garden. Wherever the land
has been cleared and brought under cultivation it appears to give ample return to the husbandman.
But the least observant traveller can hardly help being struck by the sight of a few fields
of apparently healthy grain surrounded by miles of brushwood. It is a mystery not yet satisfactorily
solved how within fifty miles of a city like New York so much land should be left unproductive
and untilled. All the evidence, both of experiment and of opinion, goes to show that the soil,
if not the richest in the world, is far too good to be given over to scrubby bushes and luxuriant
weeds.

Leaving, however, a question so abstruse, let us turn southward from Yaphank and follow the
brook that runs down past Carman's until it empties itself in Fireplace Bay. Again the scenery
undergoes a change. Here is neither the broken, picturesque shore of the north nor the inland
quietude of Ronkonkoma. Toward the west, beyond our ken, stretches the Great South Bay, far
past where the lighthouse of Fire Island can be seen flashing out upon the night. To the south,
about three miles distant, are the undulating dunes of the Great South Beach, that like a huge
breakwater shuts out the ocean. To the east is the broad promontory lying behind Mastic Point.
This is practically the same view upon which we have imagined the traveller by the old-time
stage feasting his eyes at the halting-places along the southern shore. At any point between
Babylon and the place at which we stand the scenery has the same general character--a picturesque
pleasantness devoid of disturbing grandeur. However loudly the ocean may thunder upon the outer
shore, the bay seldom changes its dimpling smiles for a rougher aspect, and never wears in
wrath the scornful look of the outer deep. A strong wind may sometimes give a little trouble
to the yachtsmen whose craft enliven the scene, and lead them to reef their swelling canvas,
but the impression carried away from the Great South Bay is decidedly summery--a memory of
mingled sunshine and gentle breezes. The shore is generally flat, and is lined with a succession
of villages located at intervals of from three to four miles. They are all more or less alike--quiet,
healthy places, in which, to all appearances, the inhabitants take life easily.

Five or six miles to the west is Blue Point, of oyster fame, in connection with which a curious
tradition is extant. It is said that long ago the oysters disappeared entirely from the bay.
The poor people from all the country round were in the habit of raking up the oysters for their
own consumption and for sale. In an evil hour the authorities of the town of Brookhaven, to
which the beds belong, resolved upon replenishing the town treasury by the imposition of a
license upon the poor fishermen. The latter, either unable to meet the demands of the law or
bent upon maintaining what appeared to them a natural right, made a counter-resolve upon resistance
to its enforcement. The result was a collision, and by dint of armed men and boats the unlicensed
fishermen were driven off. Thereafter, curious to relate, not another oyster was taken, and
nothing but empty shells filled the unblessed rakes. This state of things lasted until about
forty years ago, when it is presumed the grip of the law was relaxed. The poor people, at all
events, then again had recourse to the long-deserted beds, and found them covered to the depth
of several feet with luscious young oysters.

A number of boats ply between Bellport and the Great South Beach, whither the summer visitors
are in the habit of repairing for the purpose of tumbling in the surf on the outside. In one
of these, with a fair wind and a skipper acquainted with the numerous shoals, it is very pleasant
to sail across the bay, and then turning round Mastic Point to follow the channel connecting
the Great South with East Bay, and so to reach Moriches. From that point east the shore is
broken up into shallow creeks until Quogue (from quohaug, a clam), an old resort of the citizens
of Philadelphia, New York and other cities, is reached. It occupies the neck of land dividing
Shinecoc from East Bay, and is the first place after leaving Rockaway, about sixty miles to
the west, which has direct communication with the shore of the ocean. The beach there touches
the mainland, and then leaves it again to make room for Shinecoc Bay. At the most northerly
arm of the latter we come upon a place with a peculiar history and corresponding associations,
and there on the adjacent hills of Shinecoc we may pause for a few moments' observation. We
are now in the township of Southampton, where, with the exception of Lion Gardiner's settlement
upon the island still bearing his name, the first English settlement in the State of New York
was effected.

Toward both east and west the country stretches away as far as we can see in undulating woods
and fields. Had we come by land instead of the bays, we should have passed through a series
of four or five little villages, Moriches, Speonk, Good Ground and West Hampton, cozily nestling
among the woods--quiet, retired places, given over to peace and agriculture. There is no particularly
prominent feature in the landscape. Its charm lies in its harmony, and the ensemble is as nearly
perfect as can be imagined. Immediately in front are the knolls and dales above and below Good
Ground, and extending down to where the Ponquogue lighthouse stands out in clear outline against
the sky. To the south is Shinecoc Bay, and to the north is Peconic Bay, the water that lies
between the forks at the eastern end of Long Island. Below us, looking west, is Canoe Place,
the name given to the narrow neck of land joining the peninsula that terminates at Montauk
to the body of the island. It is the point at which the waters on the north and south come
most nearly together, and there, accordingly, as the name implies, was the Indian portage.

Toward the east, across the rising and falling ground and beyond the woods, lies the village
of Southampton, where the first settlement in the township was formed. The colonists were chiefly
Englishmen, who, having resided for a short time in Lynn, Massachusetts, turned their eyes
toward such "pastures new" as Long Island afforded. They first tried to locate themselves in
the north-western part of the island, but having been driven out by the Dutch, their second
venture led them to North Sea, and thence through the woods to Southampton. They found the
land both good and cheap. All that the Indians asked for the district lying between Canoe Place
and the eastern limit of the township at Sag Harbor was sixteen coats, threescore bushels of
Indian corn and a promise of protection against hostile tribes. Forty-three years afterward
the official estimate of the township amounted to about eighty thousand dollars, so that the
men of Lynn undoubtedly received good value for their coats and corn.

