"

"Lois!"

"Oh, there's many a woman--like me--who always knows, even though she never acts on the knowledge,
that there is some man she could go to for help, and get it, just because she was herself--a
woman and in trouble--just for that! Dosia, if I go to Eugene Larue myself, in trouble--such
trouble----"

"But he's out at Collingswood!" said Dosia, bewildered.

"Yes, I know. The train leaves here at seven-thirty, it connects at Haledon. It only takes
three quarters of an hour; I've looked it up in the time-table. I'll be back here again by
ten o'clock. I--" She stopped with a sudden intense motion of listening, then put the child
from her and ran across the hall to the opposite room.

When she came back, pale and collected, it was to say: "Justin's gone to sleep now. The doctor
says he will be under the influence of the anodynes until morning. Mrs. Bently is in there--I
sent for her; she says she'll stay until I get back." Mrs. Bently was a woman of the plainer
class, half nurse, half friend, capable and kind. "If the children wake up, they won't be afraid
with her; but you'll be here, anyway."

"Leave the baby with me," implored Dosia.

"No, I can't--suppose I were detained? Then I'd go crazy! He won't be any bother, he's so little
and so light."

"Very well, then; I'll go, too," stated Dosia in desperation. "I am not needed here. You must
have some one with you if you have baby! Let me go, Lois! You must!"

"Oh, very well, if you like," responded Lois indifferently. But that the suggestion was an
unconscious relief to her she showed the next moment, as she gave some directions to Dosia,
who put a few necessaries and some biscuits in a little hand-bag, and an extra blanket for
the baby in case it should grow chilly.

The train went at seven-thirty. The house must be lighted and the gas turned down, and the
new maid impressed with the fact that they would be back at a little after nine, though it
might really be nearer ten. After Lois was ready, she went in once more to look at Justin as
he slept--his head thrown forward a little on the pillow, his right hand clasped, and his knees
bent as one supinely running in a dream race with fate. Lois stooped over and laid her cheek
to his hair, to his hand, as one who sought for the swift, reviving warmth of the spirit.

Then the two women walked down the street toward the station, Lois absorbed in her own thoughts,
and Dosia distracted, confused, half assenting and half dissenting to the expedition.

"Are you sure Mr. Larue will be there?" she asked anxiously.

"Justin saw him Saturday. He said he was going out there then for the summer."

So far it would be all right, then. They had passed the Snows' house, and Dosia looked eagerly
for some sign of life there; she hesitated, and then went on. As they got beyond it, at the
corner turning, she looked back, and saw that Miss Bertha had come out on the piazza.

"I'll catch up with you in a moment," she said to Lois, and ran back quickly.

"Miss Bertha!"

"Why, Dosia, my dear, I didn't see you; don't speak loud!" Miss Bertha's face, her whispering
lips, her hands, were trembling with excitement. "We've been under quite a strain, but it's
all over now--I'm sure I can tell you. Dear mother has gone up-stairs with a sick-headache!
Mr. Sutton has just proposed to Ada--in the sitting-room. We left them the parlor, but they
preferred the sitting-room. Mother's white shawl is in there, and I haven't been able to get it."

"Oh!" said Dosia blankly, trying to take in the importance of the fact. "Is Mr. Girard in?
No? Will he be in later?"

"No, not until to-morrow night," said Miss Bertha, as blankly, but Dosia had already gone on.
She did not know whether she were relieved or sorry that Girard was not there. She did not
know what she had meant to say to him, but it had seemed as if she must see him!

Lois did not ask her why she had stopped; her spirit seemed to be wrapped in an obscurity as
enshrouding as the darkness that was gathering around them. Only, when they were at last in
the train, she threw back her veil and smiled at Dosia, with a clear, triumphant relief in
the smile, a sweetness, a lightness of expression that was almost roguish, and that communicated
a similar lightness of heart to Dosia.

"He will lend me the money," said Lois, with a grateful confidence that seemed to shut out
every conventional, every worldly suggestion, and to breathe only of her need and the willingness
of a friend to help--not alone for the need's sake, but for hers.

Dosia tried to picture Eugene Larue as Lois must see him; his bearded lips, his worn forehead,
his quiet, sad, piercing eyes, were not attractive to her. The whole thing was very bewildering.

It was twenty miles, a forty-minute ride, to Haledon, where they changed cars for the little
branch road that went past Collingswood--a signal station, as the conductor who punched their
tickets impressed on Lois. Haledon itself was a junction for many lines, with a crowd of people
on the platform continually coming and going under the electric lights. As Lois and Dosia waited
for their train, an automobile dashed up, and a man and a woman, getting out of it with wraps
and bundles, took their place among those who were waiting for the west-bound express. The
woman, large and elegantly gowned, had something familiar in her outline as she turned to her
companion, a short, ferret-faced man with a fair mustache--the man who lately had been seen
everywhere with Mrs. Leverich. Yes, it was Mrs. Leverich. Dosia shrank back into the shadow.
The light struck full athwart the large, full-blown face of Myra as she turned to the man caressingly
with some remark; his eyes, evilly cognizant, smiled back again as he answered, with his cigar
between his teeth.

Dosia felt that old sensation of burning shame--she had seen something that should have been
hidden in darkness. They were going off together! All those whispers about Mrs. Leverich had
been true.

There were only a few people in the shaky, rattly little car when Lois and Dosia entered it,
whizzing off, a moment later, down a lonely road with wooded hills sloping to the track on
one side and a wooded brook on the other. The air grew aromatic in the chill spring dusk with
the odor of damp fern and pine. Both women were silent, and the baby, rolled in his long cloak,
had slept all the way. It was but seven miles to Collingswood, yet the time seemed longer than
all the rest of the journey before they were finally dumped out at the little empty station
with the hills towering above it. A youth was just locking up the ticket-office and going off
as they reached it. Dosia ran after him.

"Mr. Larue's place is near here, isn't it?" she called.

"Yes, over there to the right," said the youth, pointing down the board walk, which seemed
to end at nowhere, "about a quarter of a mile down. You'll know when you come to the gates.
They're big iron ones."

"Isn't there any way of riding?"

"I guess not," said the youth, and disappeared into the woods on a bicycle.

"Oh, it will be only a step," said Lois, starting off down the walk, followed perforce by Dosia,
with the hand-bag, both walking in silence.

The excursion, from an easily imagined, matter-of-fact daylight possibility, had been growing
gradually a thing of the dark, unknown, fantastic. A faint remnant of the fading light remained
in the west, vanishing as they looked at it. High above the treetops a pale moon hung high;
there seemed nothing to connect them with civilization but that iron track curved out of sight.

The quarter of a mile prolonged itself indefinitely, with that strangely eternal effect of
the unknown; yet the big iron gates were reached at last, showing a long winding drive within.
It was here that Eugene Larue had built a house for his bride, living in it these summers when
she was away, alone among his kind, a man who must confess tacitly before the world that he
was unable to make his wife care for him--a darkened, desolate, lonely life, as dark and as
desolate as this house seemed now. An undefined dread possessed Dosia, though Lois spoke confidently:

"The walk has not really been very long. We'll probably drive back. It's odd that there are
no lights, but perhaps he is sitting outside. Ah, there's a light!"

Yet, as she spoke, the light left the window and hung on the cornice above--it was the moon,
and not a lamp, that had made it. They ascended the piazza steps; there was no one there.

"There is a knocker at the front door," said Lois. She pounded, and the house vibrated terrifyingly
through the stillness. At the same instant a scraping on the gravel walk behind them made them
turn. It was the boy on the bicycle, who had sped back to them.

"Mr. Larue ain't there," he called. "The woman who closed up the house told me he had a cable
from his wife, and he sailed for Europe this afternoon. She says, do you want the key?"

"No," said Lois, and the messenger once more disappeared.

This, then, was the end of her exaltation--for this she had passionately nerved herself! There
was to be neither the warmth of instant comprehension of her errand nor the frank giving of
aid when necessity had been pleaded; there was nothing. She shifted the baby over to the other
shoulder, and they retraced their way, which now seemed familiar and short. There was, at any
rate, a light on a tall pole in front of the little station, although the station itself was
deserted; they seated themselves on the bench under it to wait. The train was not scheduled
for nearly an hour yet.

"Oh, if I could only fly back!" Lois groaned. "I don't see how I can wait--I don't see how
I can wait! Oh, why did I come?"

"Perhaps there is a train before the one you spoke of," said Dosia, with the terribly self-accusing
feeling now that she ought to have prevented the expedition at the beginning. She got up to
go into the little box of a house, in search of a time-table. As she passed the tall post that
held the light, she saw tacked on it a paper; and read aloud the words written on it below
the date:

    NOTICE

    NO TRAINS WILL RUN ON THIS ROAD TO-NIGHT AFTER 8.30 P.M. ON
    ACCOUNT OF REPAIRS

Dosia and Lois looked at each other with the blankness of despair--the frantic, forlornly heroic
impulse, uncalculating of circumstances, now showed itself against them in all its piteous
woman-folly.

XXVII

Only fifty miles from a great city, the little station seemed like the typical lodge in a wilderness;
as far as one could see up or down the track, on either side were wooded hills. A vast silence
seemed to be gathering from unseen fastnesses, to halt in this spot.

There were no houses and no lights to be seen anywhere, except that one swinging on the pole
above, and the moon which was just rising. It was, in fact, one of those places which consist
of the far, back-lying acres of the great country-owners, and which seem to the casual traveler
forgotten or unknown in their extent and apparently primitive condition.

For the first time since Lois had left home, a wild, seething anxiety for Justin possessed
her. How could she have left him? She must get back to him at once!

"Oh, Dosia, we must get home again; we must get home!" she cried, starting up so vehemently
that the baby in her arms screamed, and Lois walked up and down distractedly hushing him, and
then, as he still wailed, sat down once more and bared her white bosom to quiet him. "We shall
have to get back; Dosia, we must start at once."

"We shall have to walk to Haledon," said Dosia.

"Yes, yes. Perhaps we may come to some farm-house where they will let us have a wagon. It is
seven miles to Haledon--that isn't very far! I often walked five miles with Justin before I
was married, and a mile or two more is nothing. There are plenty of trains from Haledon."

"Oh, we can do it easily enough," said Dosia, though her heart was as lead within her breast.
"You had better eat some of these biscuits before we start," she advised, taking them out of
the bag; and Lois munched them obediently, and drank some tepid water from a pitcher which
Dosia had found inside. As she put it back again in its place, she slipped to the side of the
platform and looked down the moon-filled, narrow valley.

Through all this journey Dosia had carried double thoughts; her voice called where none might
hear. It spoke now as she whispered, with hands outspread:

"Oh, why weren't you in when I went for you? Why didn't you come and take care of us, when
I needed you so much? Why did you let us go off this way? You might have known! Why don't you
come and take care of us? There's no one to take care of us but you! You could!" A dry sob
stopped the words--the deep, inherent cry of womankind to man for help, for succor. She stooped
over and picked up an oakleaf that had lain on the ground since the winter, and pressed it
to her bosom, and sent it fluttering off on a gust of wind down the incline, as if it could
indeed take her message with it, before she went back to Lois.

After some hesitation as to the path,--one led across the rails from where they were sitting,--they
finally took that behind the station, which broadened out into a road that lay along the wooded
slope above, from which they could look down at intervals and see the track below. One side
of that road was bordered by a high wire fencing inclosing pieces of woodland, sometimes so
thick as to be impenetrable, while along other stretches there would be glimpsed through the
trees some farther, open field. To the right, toward the railway there were only woods and
no fencing.

They two walked off briskly at first, but the road was of a heavy, loose, shelving soil in
which the foot sank at each step; the grass at the edge was wet with dew and intersected by
the ridged, branching roots of trees; the pace grew, perforce, slower and slower still. They
took turns in carrying the baby, whose small bundled form began to seem as if weighted with lead.

Far over on what must have been the other side of the track, they occasionally saw the light
of a house; at one place there seemed to be a little hamlet, from the number of lights. They
were clearly on the wrong bank; they should have crossed over at the station. The only house
they came to was the skeleton of one, the walls blackened and charred with fire. There was
only that endless line of wire fencing along which they pushed forward painfully, with dragging
step; instead of passing any given point, the road seemed to keep on with them, as if they
could never get farther on. Wire fencing, and moonlight, and silence, and trees. Trees! They
became night-marishly oppressive in those dark, solemn ranks and groups--those silent thicknesses;
the air grew chill beneath them; terror lurked in the shadows. Oh, to get out from under the
trees, with only the clear sky overhead! If that road to the house of Eugene Larue had seemed
a part of infinity in the dimness of the unknown, what was this?

They sat down now every little while to rest, Dosia's voice coaxing and cheering, and then
got up to shake the earth out of their shoes and struggle on once more--bending, shivering,
leaning against each other for support; two silent and puny figures, outside of any connection
with other lives, toiling, as it seemed, against the universe, as women do toil, apparently
futile of result.

Once the loud blare of a horn sent them over to the side of the road, clinging to the wire
fencing, as an automobile shot by--a cheerful monster that spoke of life in towns, leaving
a new and sharp desolation behind it. Why hadn't they seen it before? Why hadn't they tried
to hail it when they did see? To have had such a chance and lost it! Once they were frightened
almost uncontrollably by a group approaching with strange sounds--Italian laborers, cheerful
and unintelligible when Dosia intrepidly questioned them. They passed on, still jabbering;
two bedraggled women and a baby were no novelty to them. Then there was more long, high fencing,
and moonlight, and silence, and shadows, and trees--and trees----

"Do you suppose we'll ever get out of here?" asked Lois at last, dully.

"Why, of course; we can't help getting out, if we keep on," said Dosia, in a comfortingly matter-of-fact
tone.

It was she who was helper and guide now.

"Oh, if I had never left Justin! Why, why did I leave him? How far do you think we have walked,
Dosia?"

"It seems so endless, I can't tell; but we must be nearly at Haledon," said Dosia. "Let's sit
down and rest awhile here. Oh, Lois, Lois dear!" She had taken off her jacket and spread it
on the damp grass for them both to sit on, huddled close together, and now pressed the older
woman's head down on her shoulder, holding both mother and child in her young arms.

Lois lay there without stirring. Far off in the stillness, there came the murmur of the brook
they had passed in the train--so long since, it seemed! The moon hung high above now, pouring
a flood of light down through the arching branches of the trees upon her beautiful face with
its closed eyes, and the tiny features of the sleeping child. Something in the utter relaxation
of the attitude and manner began to alarm the girl.

"Lois, we must go on," she said, with an anxious note in her voice. "Lois! You mustn't give
up. We can't stay here!"

"Yes, I know," said Lois. She struggled to her feet, and began to walk ahead slowly. Dosia,
behind her, flung out her arms to the shadow-embroidered road over which they had just passed.

"Oh, why don't you come!" she whispered again intensely, with passionate reproach; and then,
swiftly catching up with Lois, took the child from her, and again they stumbled on together,
haltingly, to the accompaniment of that far-off brook.

The wire fencing ceased, but the road became narrower, the walls of trees darker, closer together,
though the soil underfoot grew firmer. They had to stop every few minutes to rest. Lois saw
ever before her the one objective point--a dimly lighted room, with Justin stretched out upon
the bed, dying, while she could not get there.

"Hark!" said Dosia suddenly, standing still. The sound of a voice trolling drunkenly made itself
heard, came nearer, while the women stood terrified. The thing they had both unspeakably dreaded
had happened; the moonlight brought into view the unmistakable figure of a tramp, with a bundle
swung upon his shoulder. No terror of the future could compare with this one, that neared them
with the seconds, swaying unsteadily from side to side of the road, as the tipsy voice alternately
muttered and roared the reiterated words:

    For I have come from Pad-dy land,
    The land--I do adore!

They had fled, crouching into the bushes at the edge of the path, and he passed with his eyes
on the ground, or he must have seen--a blotched, dark-visaged, leering creature, living in
an insane world of his own. They waited until he was far out of sight before creeping, all
of a tremble, from their shelter, only to hear another footfall unexpectedly near:--the pad,
pad, pad of a runner, a tall figure as one saw it through the lights and shadows under the
trees, capless and coatless, with sleeves rolled up, arms bent at the elbows, and head held
forward. Suddenly the pace slackened, stopped.

"Great heavens!" said the voice of Bailey Girard.

"Oh, it's you, it's you!" cried Dosia, running to him with an ineffable, revealing gesture,
a lovely motion of her upflinging arms, a passion of joy in the face upraised to his, that
called forth an instantly flashing, all-embracing light in his.

In that moment there was an acknowledgment in each of an intimacy that went back of all words,
back of all action. The arm that upheld her gripped her close to him as one who defends his
own, as he said tensely:

"That beast ahead, did he touch you?"

"Oh, no; he didn't see us. We hid!" She tried to explain in hurrying, disconnected sentences.
"I've been longing and praying for you to come! I tried to let you know before we started,
and you weren't there. Lois was half crazy about Justin. Come to her now! She wanted to see
Mr. Larue, and he was gone. We've walked from Collingswood; we have the baby with us."

"The baby!"

"Yes; she couldn't leave him behind. Oh, it's been so terrible! If you had only known!"

"Oh, why didn't I?" he groaned. "I ought to have known--I ought to have known! I was in that
motor that must have passed you; it was just a chance that I got out to walk." They had reached
the place where Lois sat, and he bent over her tenderly. She smiled into his anxious eyes,
though her poor face was sunken and wan.

"I'm glad it's you," she whispered. "You'll help me to get home!"

"Dear Mrs. Alexander! I want to help you to more than that. I want you to tell me everything."
He pressed her hand, and stood looking irresolutely down the road.

"I could go to Haledon, and send back a carriage for you; it's three miles further on."

"No, no, no! Don't leave us!" the accents came in terror from both. "We can walk with you.
Only don't leave us!"

"Very well; we'll try it, then."

He took the warm bundle that was the sleeping child from Lois, saying, as she half demurred,
"It's all right; I've carried 'em in the Spanish-American war in Cuba," holding it in one arm,
while with the other he supported Lois. The dragging march began again, Dosia, stumbling sometimes,
trying to keep alongside of him, so that when he turned his head anxiously to look for her
she would be there, to meet his eyes with hers, bravely scorning fatigue.

The trees had disappeared now from the side of the road; long, swelling, wild fields lay on
the slopes of the hillside, broken only by solitary clumps of bushes--fields deserted of life,
broad resting-places for the moonlight, which illumined the farthest edge of the scene, although
the moon itself was hidden by the crest of a hill. And as they went on, slowly perforce, he
questioned Lois gently; and she, with simple words, gradually laid the facts bare.

"Oh, why didn't Alexander tell me all this?" he asked pitifully, and she answered:

"He said it was no use; he said you had no money."

"No; but I can sometimes get it for other people! I could have gone to Rondell Brothers and
got it."

"Rondell Brothers? I thought they were difficult to approach."

"That depends. I was with Rondell's boy in Cuba when he had the fever, and he's always said--but
that's neither here nor there. Apart from that, they've had their eye on your husband lately.
You can't hide the quality of a man like him, Mrs. Alexander; it shows in a hundred ways that
he doesn't think of. They have had dealings with him, though he doesn't know it--it's been
through agents. Mr. Warren, one of their best men, has, it seems, taken a fancy to him. I shouldn't
wonder if they'd take over the typometer as it stands, and work Alexander in with it. If Rondell
Brothers really take up any one!"--Girard did not need to finish.

