She was immediately aware that another hand had received it, though with a far from substantial
envelopment, and for another moment what she saw before her trembled between something and
nothing. Then from the precarious situation there slowly emerged into dubious view the shape
of a young man dressed in evening clothes over which was flung a mantle of voluminous folds
such as is worn by ghosts of fashion.

"The very deuce was in it!" he complained; "I thought I should never materialize."

She flung herself into her chair, confounded; yet, even in the shock of the emergency, true
to herself, she did not fail to smooth her ruffled locks.

Her visitor had been scanning his person in a dissatisfied way, and with some vexation he now
ejaculated: "Beg your pardon, my dear, but are my feet on the floor, or where in thunder are they?"

It was with a tone of reassurance that she confessed that his patent-leathers were the trivial
matter of two or three inches from the rug. Whereupon, with still another effort, he brought
himself down until his feet rested decently upon the floor. It was only when he walked about
to examine the bric-à-brac that a suspicious lightness was discernible in his tread.

When he had composed himself by the survey, effecting it with an air of great insouciance,
which, however, failed to conceal the fact that his heart was beating somewhat wildly, he approached
the Lady.

"Well, here we are again, my love!" he cried, and devoured her hands with ghostly kisses. "It
seems an eternity that I've been struggling back to you through the outer void and what-not.
Sometimes, I confess I all but despaired. Life is not, I assure you, all beer and skittles
for the disembodied."

He drew a long breath, and his gaze upon her and the entire chamber seemed to envelop all and
cherish it.

"Little room, little room! And so you are thus! Do you know," he continued, with vivacity,
"I have wondered about it in the grave, and I could hardly sleep for this place unpenetrated.
Heigho! What a lot of things we leave undone! I dashed this off at the time, the literary passion
strong in me, thus:

    "Now, when all is done, and I lie so low,
      I cannot sleep for this, my only care;
    For though of that dim place I could not know;
      That where my heart was fain I did not go,
        Nor saw you musing there!

"Well, well, these things irk a ghost so. Naturally, as soon as possible I made my way back--to
be satisfied--to be satisfied that you were still mine." He bent a piercing look upon her.

"I observe by the calendar on your writing-table that some years have elapsed since my----um----since
I expired," he added, with a faint blush. It appears that the matter of their dissolution is,
in conversation, rather kept in the background by well-bred ghosts.

"Heigho! How time does fly! You'll be joining me soon, my dear."

She drew herself splendidly up, and he was aware of her beauty in the full of its tenacious
excellence--of the delicate insolence of Life looking upon Death--of the fact that she had
forgotten him.

He rose, and confronted this, his trembling hands thrust into his pockets, then turned away
to hide the dismay of his countenance. He was, however, a spook of considerable spirit, and
in a jiffy he met the occasion. To her blank, indignant gaze he drew a card from his case,
and, taking a pencil from the secretary, wrote, beneath the name:

    Quiet to the breast
      Wheresoe'er it be,
    That gave an hour's rest
      To the heart of me.
    Quiet to the breast
      Till it lieth dead,
    And the heart be clay
      Where I visited.
    Quiet to the breast,
      Though forgetting quite
    The guest it sheltered once;
      To the heart, good night!

Handing her the card he bowed, and, through force of habit, turned to the door, forgetting
that his ghostly pressure would not turn the knob.

As the door did not open, with a sigh of recollection for his spiritual condition, he prepared
to disappear, casting one last look at the faithless Lady. She was still looking at the card
in her hand, and the tears ran down her face.

"She has remembered," he reflected; "how courteous!" For a moment it seemed he could contain
his disappointment, discreetly removing himself now at what he felt was the vanishing-point,
with the customary reticence of the dead, but feeling overcame him. In an instant he had her
in his arms, and was pouring out his love, his reproaches, the story of his longing, his doubts,
his discontent, and his desperate journey back to earth for a sight of her. "And, ah!" cried
he, "picture my agony at finding that you had forgotten. And yet I surmised it in the gloom.
I divined it by my restlessness and my despair. Perhaps some lines that occurred to me will
suggest the thing to you--you recall my old knack for versification?

    "Where the grasses weep
      O'er his darkling bed,
    And the glow-worms creep,
      Lies the weary head
    Of one laid deep, who cannot sleep:
      The unremembered dead."

He took a chair beside her, and spoke of their old love for each other, of his fealty through
all transmutations; incidentally of her beauty, of her cruelty, of the light of her face which
had illumined his darksome way to her--and of a lot of other things--and the Lady bowed her
head, and wept.

The hours of the night passed thus: the moon waned, and a pallor began to tinge the dusky cheek
of the east, but the eloquence of the visitor still flowed on, and the Lady had his misty hands
clasped to her reawakened bosom. At last a suspicion of rosiness touched the curtain. He abruptly
rose.

"I cannot hold out against the morning," he said; "it is time all good ghosts were in bed."

But she threw herself on her knees before him, clasping his ethereal waist with a despairing
embrace.

"Oh, do not leave me," she cried, "or my love will kill me!"

He bent eagerly above her. "Say it again--convince me!"

"I love you," she cried, again and again and again, with such an anguish of sincerity as would
convince the most skeptical spook that ever revisited the glimpses of the moon.

"You will forget again," he said.

"I shall never forget!" she cried. "My life will henceforth be one continual remembrance of
you, one long act of devotion to your memory, one oblation, one unceasing penitence, one agony
of waiting!"

He lifted her face, and saw that it was true.

"Well," said he, gracefully wrapping his cloak about him, "well, now I shall have a little peace."

He kissed her, with a certain jaunty grace, upon her hair, and prepared to dissolve, while
he lightly tapped a tattoo upon his leg with the dove-colored gloves he carried.

"Good-by, my dear!" he said; "henceforth I shall sleep o' nights; my heart is quite at rest."

"But mine is breaking," she wailed, madly trying once more to clasp his vanishing form.

He threw her a kiss from his misty finger-tips, and all that remained with her, besides her
broken heart, was a faint disturbance of the air.

THE END

Page 25--Possible typo, but left it as the original. "...and contented himself, as a rule,
with creeping about the passages in =list= slippers,..."

Page 25--arquebuse--printer typo corrected to arquebus.

Page 231--setting--printer typo corrected to sitting.

Page 255--missing word "have" inserted to: "But now I'll none of you, for you've played with me."

Page 304--Potential typo.

Page 325--inpatient--typo corrected to impatient. Although inpatient is a valid word, it is
incorrectly used in this instance.

Page 345--is--printer typo corrected to in.

Page 408--Possible typo, but left it as in the original. "...then the =affection= spread to
her knees and gradually extended upward."

