Of the late Mr. JACK LONDON'S alternative methods of writing, the defiantly propagandist and
the joyously adventurous, I, being an average reader, have always preferred the latter; so
that, remembering how separate and distinct he usually kept his two styles, I expected, in
taking up The Strength of the Strong (MILLS AND BOON), to be immediately either disappointed
or gratified. But, as it turns out, the half-dozen essay-stories that make up this slender
volume are by no means characteristic, for there is very little plot in any, and even less
attempt forcibly to extract a moral; and amongst them are two not very successful North of
Ireland studies that seem to have no connection at all with the author's usual manner. The
volume is made up of social pictures, all (as Mr. LONDON liked to pretend) within his own experience,
presented impartially for you to study, and draw, if you choose, your own conclusions. That
experience ranges, comprehensively enough, from a first-hand sketch of primeval man attempting
rather unhappily to group himself in clans and tribes, to a journalistic note of the Yellow
Peril that materialised, we learn, somewhere late in the twentieth century and was overcome
by science liberating disease--a Hunnish method no longer novel. Of the series I like best
the tale of the San Francisco professor of dual personality, who by dint of much practical
study of labour problems came at last to cut loose from his own circle and disappear in the
army of industry. In this chapter alone is there a spark of the volcanic fire, now unhappily
no longer in eruption, that blazes in such great stories as The Sea Wolf, Adventure and Burning
Daylight.

       *       *       *       *       *

Though there may be no very particular reason why you should be invited to read The Love Story
of Guillaume-Marc (HUTCHINSON) it is, I vouch, a vivid enough tale of its genre. Squeamish
folk, perhaps, may think that this is not the most opportune time at which to draw attention
to the blood-lust that was so marked a feature of the French Revolution. But, granted that
you do not suffer from squeams, you will find Miss MARIAN BOWER a deft weaver of romance. Here
love and adventure walk firmly hand-in-hand, and from the moment Guillaume-Marc makes his entrance
upon the stage until the happy ending is reached any day might have been his last. The villain,
too, is a satisfactory scoundrel, and cunning withal. "Brains," he considered, "may conceive
revolutions, but it is the empty stomach which propagates them." I wonder whether they have
the brains for it in Berlin.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

According to a recent official communiqué from Petrograd, among the captures on the Caucasian
Front was "an apomecometer (an instrument for estimating altitudes)." It is understood that
the latest Turkish estimate of the "All Highest" was captured with the instrument, but was
found to be unfit for publication.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Weser Zeitung now reports from Berlin that deliberations by the
    State authorities have led to the decision that from April 15 the meat
    ration will be increased to half a kilometre (about 17-1/2 ozs.) per
    week."--Liverpool Daily Post.

This must refer to the sausage-ration, which by reason of its length and tenuity is now advertised
by the butchers (civilian) of Berlin as "The HINDENBURG line."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "STEAM LUNCH--50 ft. x 7-1/4 ft., fast, liquid fuel."--Yachting
    Monthly.

A meal of these dimensions should surely attract the attention both of the FOOD CONTROLLER
and the Liquor Control Board.