In 1840, there were two primary schools in Ferry village, one occupying the site of the Pioneer
newspaper office, the other near the corner of Shawmut Street and Central Avenue.

The question of starting a high school was agitated in 1840, but no action was taken until
1845. In 1850, a high school building was erected on Second and Walnut Streets.

In January, 1873, the present high school building, on Bellingham Street, was dedicated with
appropriate exercises, Tracy P. Cheever delivering the address.

The tithingmen were the ancient conservators of the peace, and were chosen annually as late
as 1834; after that date their duties devolved upon the constables. In 1847, a night-watch
was first deemed necessary.

In 1854, the first steps were taken toward organizing a police force. During the year occurred
the memorable Know-Nothing riot, which resulted in the pulling down of a cross.

The first city government established a police department, and appointed a city marshal and
six assistants. As at present organized, there is a chief-of-police, two deputies, and fifteen
patrol-men, whose duties are to keep watch over the city day and night, keep the peace, and
protect property, and observe and report any defects in the public way which could by any chance
result in injury to either man or beast.

In 1842, at the annual town-meeting the selectmen were authorized to erect twelve street-lamps.
Their number has been increased from time to time until there are now over five hundred and
fifty lamps, besides two large lanterns: one on the Square, the other in front of the Academy
of Music.

A board of health was first elected in 1846. From 1850, to the organization of the city government,
the selectmen acted as the board. From 1857 to 1878 the duties of the board were in the hands
of the mayor and board of aldermen. Since 1878, a board has been annually elected. Their supervision
and oversight have been of great advantage to the city.

In 1863, the Chelsea Library Association presented the city with about one thousand volumes,
which became the nucleus of the Public Library. Eight thousand books have already been collected;
they are soon to be gathered within an appropriate and spacious building generously donated
to the city.

There is much of romance in the history of such an ancient settlement as Winnisimmet and Rumney
Marsh, although most of the incidents worthy of note have long since passed into oblivion.

The Indian wars never affected directly the early settlers, for before hostilities commenced
the frontier had been advanced some miles into the interior; but the brave sons of the pioneers
were called upon for the defence of more exposed localities, and promptly responded.

"In military affairs Rumney Marsh, for many years, was associated with the neighboring towns
in Essex and Middlesex, in an organization called the 'Three County Troop.'" The company appears
to have been formed as early as May, 1659. Edward Hutchinson was confirmed as the first captain.
Captain John Tuttle was in command of the company in 1673.

In the war of 1676, the Three County Troop sent ten men, "well fitted with long arms," to the
rendezvous at Concord.

"In the year 1677, about April the 7th, six or seven men were slain by the Indians, near York,
while they were at work two miles from the town, whereof one was the son of Lieutenant Smith
of Winnisimmet, a hopeful young man.... Five Indians paddled their canoes down towards York,
where they killed six of the English, and took one captive, May 19 following; and, May 23,
four days after, one was killed at Wells, and one taken by them betwixt York and Wells; amongst
whom was the eldest son of Lieutenant Smith, forementioned; his younger brother was slain in
the same town not long before."

