"No, no. Victor is Mercedes's dog, her dearly loved dog," said Miss Scrotton, her impatience
with an ignorance that she suspected of wilfulness tempered, as usual, by the satisfaction
of giving any and every information about Madame von Marwitz. "It is a sort of superstition
with her that he should always be on the platform to see her off. It will be serious, really
serious, if Karen doesn't get him here in time. It may depress Mercedes for the whole of the
voyage."

"And where has she gone to get him?"

"Oh, she turned back nearly at once. She was with us in the carriage and we passed Louise in
the omnibus with the boxes and fortunately Karen noticed that Victor wasn't with her. It turned
out, when we stopped and asked Louise about him, that she had given him to the footman to take
for a walk and she thought he had been brought back to Karen. Karen took a hansom at once and
went back. She really ought to have seen to it before starting. I do hope she will get him
here in time. Madam, if you please; we really can't get by."

A little woman, stout but sprightly, in whom Gregory recognized the agitated mother of the
pretty girl, evaded Miss Scrotton's extended hand and darted past her to place herself in front
of Madame von Marwitz. She wore a large, box-like hat from which a blue veil hung. Her small
features, indeterminate in form and incoherent in assemblage, expressed to an extraordinary
degree determination and strategy. She faced the great woman.

"Baroness," she said, in swift yet deliberate tones; "allow me to present myself; Mrs. Hamilton
K. Slifer. We have mutual friends; Mrs. Tollman, Mrs. General Tollman of St. Louis, Missouri.
She had the pleasure of meeting you in Paris some years ago. An old family friend of ours.
My girls, Baroness; Maude and Beatrice. They won't forget this day. We're simply wild about
you, Baroness. We were at your concert the other night." Maude, the lean and tawny, and Beatrice,
the dark and pretty, had followed deftly in their mother's wake and were smiling, Maude with
steely brightness, Beatrice with nonchalant assurance, at Madame von Marwitz.

"Bon Dieu!" the great woman muttered. She gazed away from the Slifers and about her with helpless
consternation. Then, slightly bowing her head and murmuring: "I thank you, Madam," she moved
on, her friends closing round her. Miss Scrotton, pale with wrath, put the Slifers aside as
she passed them.

"Well, girls, I knew I could do it!" Mrs. Slifer ejaculated, drawing a deep breath. They stood
near Gregory, and Beatrice, who had adjusted her camera, was taking a series of snaps of the
retreating celebrity. "We've met her, anyway, and perhaps if she ever comes on deck we'll get
another chance. That's a real impertinent woman she's got with her. Did you see her try and
shove me back?"

"Never mind, mother," said Beatrice, who was evidently easy-going; "I snapped her as she did
it and she looked ugly enough to turn milk sour. My! do look at that girl with the queer cap
and the big dog. She's a freak and no mistake! Stand back, Maude, and let me have a shot at her."

"Why, I believe it's the adopted daughter!" Maude exclaimed. "Don't you remember. She was in
the front row and we heard those people talking about her. I think she's distinguée myself.
She looks like a Russian countess."

It was indeed Miss Woodruff who had arrived and Gregory, whose eyes followed the Slifers',
was aware of a sudden emotion on seeing her. It was the emotion of his dream, touched and startled
and sweet, and even more than in his dream she made him think of a Hans Andersen heroine with
the little sealskin cap on her fair hair, and a long furred coat reaching to her ankles. She
stood holding Victor by a leash, looking about her with a certain anxiety.

Gregory made his way to her and when she saw him she started to meet him, gladly, but without
surprise. "Where is Tante?" she said, "Is she already in the train? Did she send you for me?"

"You are in very good time," he reassured her. "She is over there--you see her feather now,
don't you. I'll take you to her."

"Thank you so much. It has been a great rush. You have heard of the misfortunes? By good chance
I found the quickest cab."

She was walking beside him, her eyes fixed before them on the group where she saw her guardian's
plume and veil. "I don't know what Tante would have done if Victor had not been here in time
to say good-bye to her."

Madame von Marwitz was holding a parting reception before the open door of her saloon carriage.
Flowers and fruits lay on the tables. Louise and Miss Scrotton's maid piled rugs and cushions
on the chairs and divans. One of the Jewish gentlemen stood with his hat pushed off his forehead
talking in low, important tones to a pallid young newspaper man who made rapid notes.

Madame von Marwitz at once caught sight of Karen and Victor. Past the intervening heads she
beckoned Karen to come to her and she and Gregory exchanged salutes. In her swift smile on
seeing him he read a mild amusement; she could only think that, like everybody else, he had
come to see her off.

The cohorts opened to receive Miss Woodruff and Madame von Marwitz enfolded her and stooped
to kiss Victor's head.

Gregory watched the little scene, which was evidently touching to all who witnessed it, and
then turned to find Professor Blackburn at his elbow. He, too, it appeared, had been watching
Madame von Marwitz. "Yes; I heard her two years ago in Oxford," he said; "and even my antique
blood was stirred, as much by her personality as by her music. A most romantic, most pathetic
woman. What eyes and what a smile!"

"I see that you are one of the stricken," said Gregory. "Shall I introduce you to my old friend,
Mrs. Forrester? She'll no doubt be able to get you a word with Madame Okraska, if you want
to hear her speak."

No, the professor said, he preferred to keep his idols remote and vaguely blurred with incense.
"Who is the young Norse maiden?" he inquired; "the one you were with. Those singular ladies
are accosting her now."

Karen Woodruff, on the outskirts of the group, had been gazing at her guardian with a constrained
smile in which Gregory detected self-mastery, and turned her eyes upon the Slifers as the professor
asked his question. Mrs. Slifer, marshalling her girls, and stooping to pat Victor, was introducing
herself, and while Gregory told the professor that that was Miss Woodruff, Madame Okraska's
ward, she bent to expound to the Slifers the inscription on Victor's collar, speaking, it was
evident, with kindness. Gregory was touched by the tolerance with which, in the midst of her
own sad thoughts, she satisfied the Slifers' curiosity.

"Then she really is Norse," said the professor.

"Really half Norse."

"I like her geniality and her reticence," said the professor, watching the humours of the little
scene. "Those enterprising ladies won't get much out of her. Ah, they must relinquish her now;
her guardian is asking for her. I suppose it's time that I got into my compartment."

The groups were breaking up and the travellers, detaching themselves from their friends, were
taking their places. Madame von Marwitz, poised above a sea of upturned faces on the steps
of her carriage, bent to enfold Karen Woodruff once more. Doors then slammed, whistles blew,
green flags fluttered, and the long train moved slowly out of the station.

Standing at a little distance from the crowd, and holding Victor by his leash, Miss Woodruff
looked after the train with a fixed and stiffened smile. She was near tears. The moment was
not a propitious one for speaking to her; yet Gregory felt that he could not go without saying
good-bye. He approached her and she turned grave eyes upon him.

"And you are going to Cornwall, now?" said Gregory, patting Victor's head.

"Yes; I go to-morrow," said Miss Woodruff in a gentle voice.

"Have you friends there?" Gregory asked, "and books? Things to amuse you?"

"We see the rector and his wife and one or two old ladies now and then. But it is very remote,
you know. That is why my guardian loves it so much. She needs the solitude after her rushing
life. But books; oh yes; my guardian has an excellent library there; she is a great reader;
I could read all day, in every language, if I wanted to. As for amusement, Mrs. Talcott and
I are very busy; we see after the garden and the little farm; I practice and take Victor out
for walks."

She had quite mastered her emotion and Gregory could look up at her frankly. "Isn't there something
I could send you," he said, "to help to pass the time? Magazines? Do you have them? And sweets?
Do you like sweets?" His manner was half playful and he smiled at her as he might have smiled
at a young school-girl. If only those wide braids under the little cap had been hanging over
her shoulders the manner would have been justified. As it was, Gregory felt with some bewilderment
that his behaviour was hardly normal. He was not in the habit of offering magazines and sweets
to young women. But his solicitude expressed itself in these unconventional forms and luckily
she found nothing amiss with them. She was accustomed, no doubt, to a world where such offerings
passed freely.

"It is very kind of you," said Miss Woodruff. "I should indeed like to see a review now and
then. Mr. Drew is writing another little article on my guardian, in one of this month's reviews,
I did not hear which one; and I would like to see that very much. But sweets? No; when I like
them I like them too much and eat too many and then I am sorry. Please don't send me sweets."
She was smiling.

"What do you like to eat, then, that doesn't make you sorry--even when you eat a great deal?"

"Roast-beef!" she said, laughing, and the tip of her tongue was caught between her teeth. He
was charmed to feel that, for the moment, at least, he had won her from her sadness.

"But you get roast-beef in Cornwall."

"Oh, excellent. I will not have roast-beef, please."

"Fruit, then? You like fruit?"

"Yes; indeed."

"And you don't get much fruit in Cornwall in winter."

"Only apples," she confessed, "and dried apricots."

He elicited from her that nectarines and grapes were her favourite fruits. But in the midst
of their talk she became suddenly grave again.

"I do not believe that you had a single word with her after I came!"

His face betrayed his bewilderment.

"Tante," she enlightened him. "But before then? You did speak with her? She had sent you to
look for me?" The depths of her misconception as to his presence were apparent.

"No; it was by chance I saw you," he said. "And I didn't have any talk with Madame von Marwitz."
He had no time to undeceive her further if it had been worth while to undeceive her, for Mrs.
Forrester, detaching herself from the larger group of bereaved ones, joined them.

"I can't give you a lift, Gregory?" she asked. "You are going citywards? We are all feeling
very bleak and despoiled, aren't we? What an awful place a station is when someone has gone
away from it."

"Mrs. Forrester," said Karen Woodruff, with wide eyes, "he did not have one single word with
her; Mr. Jardine did not get any talk at all with Tante. Oh, that should have been managed."

