PAGE

Introduction                                                          vii

I. THE MONITOR AND THE MERRIMAC                                         1 Told by Lieutenant
Worden and Lieutenant S.D. Greene of the Monitor

II. THE MERRIMAC AND THE MONITOR                                       25 Told by H. Ashton
Ramsay, Major C.S.A., Chief Engineer of the Merrimac

III. THE LAST OF THE MONITOR                                           67 By an eye-witness,
Rear-Admiral E.W. Watson, U.S.N.

INTRODUCTION

This is the first-hand story of what was done and seen and felt on each side in the battle
of the Monitor and the Merrimac. The actual experiences on both vessels are pictured, in one
case by the commander of the Monitor, then a lieutenant, and the next in rank, Lieutenant Greene,
and in the other by Chief-Engineer Ramsay of the Merrimac. Clearly such a record of personal
experiences has a place by itself in the literature of the subject.

It is quite unnecessary to dwell upon the various controversies which this battle has involved.
As to the first use of armor, we know that France experimented with floating armored batteries
in the Crimean War, and England had armored ships before 1862. As to the invention of the movable
turret, which has been a bone of contention, the pages of Colonel Church's Life of John Ericsson
and other books are open to the curious. The struggle of Ericsson to obtain official recognition,
the raising of money, the hasty equipment of the Monitor, and the restraining orders under
which she fought form a story supplementary to the battle, but of peculiar interest. The Monitor
was ordered to act on the defensive. It was her mission first to protect the wooden ships.
That explains certain misconceptions of her cautious attitude. And the fact that the powder
charges for her Dahlgren guns were officially limited to fifteen pounds, although thirty and
even fifty pounds were used with safety afterward, invites speculation upon the results if
she had fought with a free hand.

But the main result was reached. The Union fleet was saved. The career of the Merrimac was
checked. No Union vessel was destroyed after the Monitor appeared. It seems proper to note
these facts here, in view of the fact that Mr. Ramsay's fresh and striking story of the Merrimac,
which is presented for the first time, enters upon the details of the battle more fully than
the narrative of Lieutenant Worden and Lieutenant Greene. Fortunately the discussion has become
academic in the half-century that has passed since Southern cheers over the first conquests
of the Merrimac faltered before the acclaim which greeted the Monitor's achievement of her
task. One may disagree with the phrasing of various historians on both sides, one may find
it difficult to accept the inscription upon the shaft of the Merrimac outside the "Confederate
White House" in Richmond, but no American can cease to wonder at the fortitude and daring of
those other Americans who fought to the death in those hastily improvised crafts, bearing the
brunt not only of battle, but of a strange and terrible experiment. It is not an argument that
this book offers, but a saga of heroes, an illumination of qualities which have made our history
in times of crisis.

The year of this battle witnessed the destruction of both the vessels engaged. Mr. Ramsay describes
the blowing-up of the Merrimac. An eye-witness of the sinking of the Monitor off Hatteras,
Rear-Admiral E.W. Watson, who was an officer of the Rhode Island, which was towing the Monitor
on that eventful night, has very kindly written a brief description of the tragedy for this book.

       *       *       *       *       *

The publishers desire to make acknowledgment to the representatives of the late Lucius E. Chittenden
for the use of Part I of this book, which appears in Mr. Chittenden's most interesting volume,
Recollections of President Lincoln and his Administration.

THE MONITOR AND THE MERRIMAC

THE MONITOR AND THE MERRIMAC

I

Told by Lieutenant Worden and Lieutenant S.D. Greene of the "Monitor"

Some weeks after the historic battle between the Monitor and the Merrimac in Hampton Roads,
on March 9, 1862, the former vessel came to the Washington Navy-yard unchanged, in the same
condition as when she discharged her parting shot at the Merrimac. There she lay until her
heroic commander had so far recovered from his injuries as to be able to rejoin his vessel.
All leaves of absence had been revoked, the absentees had returned, and were ready to welcome
their captain. President Lincoln, Captain Fox, and a limited number of Captain Worden's personal
friends had been invited to his informal reception. Lieutenant Greene received the President
and the guests. He was a boy in years--not too young to volunteer, however, when volunteers
were scarce, and to fight the Merrimac during the last half of the battle, after the captain
was disabled.

The President and the other guests stood on the deck, near the turret. The men were formed
in lines, with their officers a little in advance, when Captain Worden ascended the gangway.
The heavy guns in the navy-yard began firing the customary salute when he stepped upon the
deck. One side of his face was permanently blackened by the powder shot into it from the muzzle
of a cannon carrying a shell of one hundred pounds' weight, discharged less than twenty yards
away. The President advanced to welcome him, and introduced him to the few strangers present.
The officers and men passed in review and were dismissed. Then there was a scene worth witnessing.
The old tars swarmed around their loved captain, they grasped his hand, crowded to touch him,
thanked God for his recovery and return, and invoked blessings upon his head in the name of
all the saints in the calendar. He called them by their names, had a pleasant word for each
of them, and for a few moments we looked upon an exhibition of a species of affection that
could only have been the product of a common danger.

When order was restored, the President gave a brief sketch of Captain Worden's career. Commodore
Paulding had been the first, Captain Worden the second officer, of the navy, he said, to give
an unqualified opinion in favor of armored vessels. Their opinions had been influential with
him and with the Board of Construction. Captain Worden had volunteered to take command of the
Monitor, at the risk of his life and reputation, before the keel was laid. He had watched her
construction, and his energy had made it possible to send her to sea in time to arrest the
destructive operations of the Merrimac. What he had done with a new crew, and a vessel of novel
construction, we all knew. He, the President, cordially acknowledged his indebtedness to Captain
Worden, and he hoped the whole country would unite in the feeling of obligation. The debt was
a heavy one, and would not be repudiated when its nature was understood. The details of the
first battle between ironclads would interest every one. At the request of Captain Fox, Captain
Worden had consented to give an account of his voyage from New York to Hampton Roads, and of
what had afterward happened there on board the Monitor.

In an easy conversational manner, without any effort at display, Captain Worden told the story,
of which the following is the substance:

"I suppose," he began, "that every one knows that we left New York Harbor in some haste. We
had information that the Merrimac was nearly completed, and if we were to fight her on her
first appearance, we must be on the ground. The Monitor had been hurried from the laying of
her keel. Her engines were new, and her machinery did not move smoothly. Never was a vessel
launched that so much needed trial-trips to test her machinery and get her crew accustomed
to their novel duties. We went to sea practically without them. No part of the vessel was finished;
there was one omission that was serious, and came very near causing her failure and the loss
of many lives. In heavy weather it was intended that her hatches and all her openings should
be closed and battened down. In that case all the men would be below, and would have to depend
upon artificial ventilation. Our machinery for that purpose proved wholly inadequate.

"We were in a heavy gale of wind as soon as we passed Sandy Hook. The vessel behaved splendidly.
The seas rolled over her, and we found her the most comfortable vessel we had ever seen, except
for the ventilation, which gave us more trouble than I have time to tell you about. We had
to run into port and anchor on account of the weather, and, as you know, it was two o'clock
in the morning of Sunday before we were alongside the Minnesota. Captain Van Brunt gave us
an account of Saturday's experience. He was very glad to make our acquaintance, and notified
us that we must be prepared to receive the Merrimac at daylight. We had had a very hard trip
down the coast, and officers and men were weary and sleepy. But when informed that our fight
would probably open at daylight, and that the Monitor must be put in order, every man went
to his post with a cheer. That night there was no sleep on board the Monitor.

"In the gray of the early morning we saw a vessel approaching, which our friends on the Minnesota
said was the Merrimac. Our fastenings were cast off, our machinery started, and we moved out
to meet her half-way. We had come a long way to fight her, and did not intend to lose our opportunity.

"Before showing you over the vessel, let me say that there were three possible points of weakness
in the Monitor, two of which might have been guarded against in her construction, if there
had been more time to perfect her plans. One of them was in the turret, which, as you see,
is constructed of eight plates of inch iron--on the side of the ports, nine--set on end so
as to break joints, and firmly bolted together, making a hollow cylinder eight inches thick.
It rests on a metal ring on a vertical shaft, which is revolved by power from the boilers.
If a projectile struck the turret at an acute angle, it was expected to glance off without
doing damage. But what would happen if it was fired in a straight line to the center of the
turret, which in that case would receive the whole force of the blow? It might break off the
bolt-heads on the interior, which, flying across, would kill the men at the guns; it might
disarrange the revolving mechanism, and then we would be wholly disabled.

"I laid the Monitor close alongside the Merrimac, and gave her a shot. She returned our compliment
by a shell weighing one hundred and fifty pounds, fired when we were close together, which
struck the turret so squarely that it received the whole force. Here you see the scar, two
and a half inches deep in the wrought iron, a perfect mold of the shell. If anything could
test the turret, it was that shot. It did not start a rivet-head or a nut! It stunned the two
men who were nearest where the ball struck, and that was all. I touched the lever--the turret
revolved as smoothly as before. The turret had stood the test; I could mark that point of weakness
off my list forever.

"You notice that the deck is joined to the side of the hull by a right angle, at what sailors
call the 'plank-shear.' If a projectile struck that angle what would happen? It would not be
deflected; its whole force would be expended there. It might open a seam in the hull below
the water-line, or pierce the wooden hull, and sink us. Here was our second point of weakness.

"I had decided how I would fight her in advance. I would keep the Monitor moving in a circle
just large enough to give time for loading the guns. At the point where the circle impinged
upon the Merrimac our guns should be fired, and loaded while we were moving around the circuit.
Evidently the Merrimac would return the compliment every time. At our second exchange of shots,
she returning six or eight to our two, another of her large shells struck our 'plank-shear'
at its angle, and tore up one of the deck-plates, as you see. The shell had struck what I believed
to be the weakest point in the Monitor. We had already learned that the Merrimac swarmed with
sharpshooters, for their bullets were constantly spattering against our turret and our deck.
If a man showed himself on deck he would draw their fire. But I did not much consider the sharpshooters.
It was my duty to investigate the effects of that shot. I ordered one of the pendulums to be
hauled aside, and, crawling out of the port, walked to the side, lay down upon my chest, and
examined it thoroughly. The hull was uninjured, except for a few splinters in the wood. I walked
back and crawled into the turret--the bullets were falling on the iron deck all about me as
thick as hail-stones in a storm. None struck me, I suppose because the vessel was moving, and
at the angle, and when I was lying on the deck my body made a small mark, difficult to hit.
We gave them two more guns, and then I told the men, what was true, that the Merrimac could
not sink us if we let her pound us for a month. The men cheered; the knowledge put new life
into all.

"We had more exchanges, and then the Merrimac tried new tactics. She endeavored to ram us,
to run us down. Once she struck us about amidships with her iron ram. Here you see its mark.
It gave us a shock, pushed us around, and that was all the harm. But the movement placed our
sides together. I gave her two guns, which I think lodged in her side, for, from my lookout
crack, I could not see that either shot rebounded. Ours being the smaller vessel, and more
easily handled, I had no difficulty in avoiding her ram. I ran around her several times, planting
our shot in what seemed to be the most vulnerable places. In this way, reserving my fire until
I got the range and the mark, I planted two more shots almost in the very spot I had hit when
she tried to ram us. Those shots must have been effective, for they were followed by a shower
of bars of iron.

"The third weak spot was our pilot-house. You see that it is built a little more than three
feet above the deck, of bars of iron, ten by twelve inches square, built up like a log-house,
bolted with very large bolts at the corners where the bars interlock. The pilot stands upon
a platform below, his head and shoulders in the pilot-house. The upper tier of bars is separated
from the second by an open space of an inch, through which the pilot may look out at every
point of the compass. The pilot-house, as you see, is a foursquare mass of iron, provided with
no means of deflecting a ball. I expected trouble from it, and I was not disappointed. Until
my accident happened, as we approached the enemy I stood in the pilot-house and gave the signals.
Lieutenant Greene fired the guns, and Engineer Stimers, here, revolved the turret.

"I was below the deck when the corner of the pilot-house was first struck by a shot or a shell.
It either burst or was broken, and no harm was done. A short time after I had given the signal
and, with my eye close against the lookout crack, was watching the effect of our shot, something
happened to me--my part in the fight was ended. Lieutenant Greene, who fought the Merrimac
until she had no longer stomach for fighting, will tell you the rest of the story."

Can it be possible that this beardless boy fought one of the historic battles of the world?
This was the thought of every one, as the modest, diffident young Greene was half pushed forward
into the circle.

"I cannot add much to the Captain's story," he began. "He had cut out the work for us, and
we had only to follow his pattern. I kept the Monitor either moving around the circle or around
the enemy, and endeavored to place our shots as near her amidships as possible, where Captain
Worden believed he had already broken through her armor. We knew that she could not sink us,
and I thought I would keep right on pounding her as long as she would stand it. There is really
nothing new to be added to Captain Worden's account. We could strike her wherever we chose.
Weary as they must have been, our men were full of enthusiasm, and I do not think we wasted
a shot. Once we ran out of the circle for a moment to adjust a piece of machinery, and I learn
that some of our friends feared that we were drawing out of the fight. The Merrimac took the
opportunity to start for Norfolk. As soon as our machinery was adjusted we followed her, and
got near enough to give her a parting shot. But I was not familiar with the locality; there
might be torpedoes planted in the channel, and I did not wish to take any risk of losing our
vessel, so I came back to the company of our friends. But except that we were, all of us, tired
and hungry when we came back to the Minnesota at half-past twelve P.M., the Monitor was just
as well prepared to fight as she was at eight o'clock in the morning when she fired the first gun."

We were then shown the injury to the pilot-house. The mark of the ball was plain upon the two
upper bars, the principal impact being upon the lower of the two. This huge bar was broken
in the middle, but held firmly at either end. The farther it was pressed in, the stronger was
the resistance on the exterior. On the inside the fracture in the bar was half an inch wide.
Captain Worden's eye was very near to the lookout crack, so that when the gun was discharged
the shock of the ball knocked him senseless, while the mass of flame filled one side of his
face with coarse grains of powder. He remained insensible for some hours.

"Have you heard what Captain Worden's first inquiry was when he recovered his senses after
the general shock to his system?" asked Captain Fox of the President.

"I think I have," replied Mr. Lincoln, "but it is worth relating to these gentlemen."

"His question was," said Captain Fox, "'Have I saved the Minnesota?'

"'Yes, and whipped the Merrimac!' some one answered.

"'Then,' said Captain Worden, 'I don't care what becomes of me.'

"Mr. President," said Captain Fox, "not much of the history to which we have listened is new
to me. I saw this battle from eight o'clock until midday. There was one marvel in it which
has not been mentioned--the splendid handling of the Monitor throughout the battle. The first
bold advance of this diminutive vessel against a giant like the Merrimac was superlatively
grand. She seemed inspired by Nelson's order at Trafalgar: 'He will make no mistake who lays
his vessel alongside the enemy.' One would have thought the Monitor a living thing. No man
was visible. You saw her moving around that circle, delivering her fire invariably at the point
of contact, and heard the crash of the missile against her enemy's armor above the thunder
of her guns, on the bank where we stood. It was indescribably grand!

THE MERRIMAC AND THE MONITOR

II

THE MERRIMAC AND THE MONITOR

Told by H. Ashton Ramsay, Major C.S.A., Chief Engineer of the "Merrimac"

The Merrimac was built in 1856 as a full-rigged war-frigate, of thirty-one hundred tons' burden,
with auxiliary steam power to be used only in case of head winds. She was a hybrid from her
birth, marking the transition from sails to steam as well as from wooden ships to ironclads.

