       *        *        *        *        *

4. The diversions of the common people; whether they seem to enjoy their amusements, and be
happy, and sport, and laugh; farm-houses, or any thing answering to them, and of what kind;
same of public-houses, roads.

5. Their shops; how you get your breeches mended, or things done for you, and how (i.e. well
or ill done;) whether you see the tailor, converse with him, &c.

6. Get into the inside of a cottage; describe furniture, utensils, what you find actually doing.

All the stipulations I make with you for doing your visitation is, that you come over to Wearmouth
soon after your return, for you will be very entertaining between truth and lying. I have a
notion you will find books, but in great confusion as to catalogues, classing, &c.

7. Describe minutely how you pass one day on ship-board; learn to take and apply lunar, or
other observations, and how the midshipmen, &c, do it.

8. What sort of fish you get, and how dressed. I should think your business would be to make
yourself master of the middle Greek. My compliments to Bonaparte, if you meet with him, which
I think is very likely. Pick up little articles of dress, tools, furniture, especially from
low life--as an actual smock, &c.

9. What they talk about; company.

10. Describe your impression upon first seeing things; upon catching the first view of Constantinople;
the novelties of the first day you pass there.

In all countries and climates, nations and languages, carry with you the best wishes of, dear
Carlyle,

Your affectionate friend,

W. PALEY.

Quarterly Review.

       *        *        *        *        *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY.

       *        *        *        *        *

The Tea Plant.

The tea leaf is plucked from the plant by the manufacturers at three periods during the spring,
which crops they call, in their technical phrase, the head, or first spring; the second spring;
and the third spring. The quality of the tea varies according to the time of the plucking.
The young and tender leaves of course make finer tea than tough and old ones.--Asiatic Register.

Portsmouth Literary and Philosophical Society.

We have been much interested with the report of this Society for 1827-8, and we are happy to
record the prosperity of the establishment. Some of the lectures, especially those on Geology,
or Mineralogy, are very attractive; and in the curator's report, we notice that the Museum,
previously rich in fossil organic remains, has been enriched by numerous donations in this
department, during the past session. The entire number of specimens in the Museum is upwards
of 9,000.

We have not been at Portsmouth for these three years, and till we saw this report, were not
aware that the State Chambers, lately on the Platform Battery, had been pulled down towards
the close of last year. The building was of some interest. It was of stone, with walls of considerable
thickness, and square vaults below, descending to a level with the parade, and used at different
periods as dungeons. The part on which the vane stood, was erected in the reign of Queen Elizabeth,
and the other part was built in the time of Charles II., whose name, with the date, was on
a marble slab above the doorway. Of late years the building had been modernized and used as
a signal-house and subscription reading-room. If we are not mistaken, the edifice had often
been much injured by the encroachments of the sea, and probably this led to its removal.

Conversations on Geology.

We notice with much pleasure a handsome volume under the above popular title, which represents
that delightful science in the very attractive form of a series of dialogues between a mother
and her children. The Huttonian and Wernerian systems and the Mosaic Geology, are here familiarly
explained, and illustrative phenomena and recent discoveries glanced at in the progress of
the conversations. How much more profitable are such family recreations than sitting hours
over spotted pieces of paper, counting the pips of dice, or simpering over fashionable novels
and tales of scandal run mad. Bookish families are usually the happiest, at least if we rightly
estimate the term. In an early number we shall endeavour to find some portion of these "Conversations"
for our columns.

"Arcana of Science for 1829."

This work will appear early in January. It will be on the same plan as the volume of last year,
and will contain at least thirty engravings, on copper and wood. The mechanical department
is unusually copious, and there are some abstracts in the chemical, which are of high value.

Rice.

Trials have recently been made to grow the dry rice of China in Italy; and it is expected that
in time an advantageous cultivation of it may be introduced in France.

Turf.

A correspondent of a French work on gardening thinks that green turf may be obtained in France
by trenching the ground, freeing it from stones, covering the surface with two or three inches
of rich compost, and then laying on the turf. The improved soil, he thinks, will retain moisture
sufficient to keep the turf growing all the summer, and, consequently, green.

Garden of the Hesperides.

Lieutenant Beachey, in his Travels in Cyrene, recently published, has thrown some curious light
on the ancient account of these celebrated gardens. It appears, that, like many other wonders,
ancient and modern, when reduced to simple truth, they are little more than common occurrences.
Baron Humboldt and Mr. Bullock have reduced the floating gardens of Mexico to mud banks, with
ditches between; and lieutenant Beachey makes it appear, that the gardens of the Hesperides
are nothing more than old stone quarries, the bottoms of which have been cultivated.

Preparation of Cinnamon.

The rough bark is first scraped off with knives, and then, with a peculiar instrument, the
inner rind is stripped off in long slips; these are tied up in bundles, and put to dry in the
sun, and the wood is sold for fuel. The operation was thus explained to bishop Heber by the
cinnamon peelers; but in the regular preparation, the outer bark is not scraped off; but the
process of fermentation, which the strips undergo when tied up in large quantities, removes
the coarse parts. The peelers are called Chaliers.

Power of the Sun's Rays.

Mr. Mackintosh, contractor for the government works at Stonehouse Point, Devon, lately had
to descend in the diving-bell with workmen to lay the foundation of a sea wall. The machine
is fitted with convex glasses, in the upper part, to serve the purpose of windows; and Mr.
Mackintosh states, that on several occasions, in clear weather, he has witnessed the sun's
rays so concentrated by the circular windows, as to burn the labourers' clothes, when opposed
to the focal point, and this when the machine was twenty-five feet under the surface of the
water!--From the MS. Journal of the Bristol Nursery Library.

The Cowslip and Polyanthus.

By sowing the seed of the wild cowslip in the garden, a number of varieties will be produced,
some of which have flowers of a beautiful bright red colour. May not this process be the first
step towards the formation of our garden polyanthus? if that be not, as is generally supposed,
a variety of the primrose, rather than of the cowslip.--Gard. Mag.

French Method of making Coffee.

The principal points are these:--The coffee,--Turkey or Bourbon,--should be roasted only till
it is of a cinnamon colour, and closely covered up during the process of roasting. In France
this is done in closed iron cylinders, turned over a fire by a handle, like a grindstone. The
coffee should be coarsely ground soon after it is roasted, but not until quite cool: some think
its aroma is better preserved by beating in a mortar, but this is tedious. The proportions
for making coffee are usually one pint of boiling water to two and a half ounces of coffee.
The coffee being put into the water, the coffee-pot should be covered up, and left for two
hours surrounded with hot cinders, so as to keep up the temperature, without making the liquor
boil. Occasionally stir it, and after two hours' infusion, remove it from the fire, and allow
it a quarter of an hour to settle, and when perfectly clear, decant it. Isinglass, or hartshorn
shavings, are sometimes used to clarify coffee; but by this addition you lose a great portion
of its delicious aroma.

Coffee in England is generally over-roasted, and to this fault arise all the inconveniences
which are so often attributed to coffee, but which, in reality, are produced by the imperfect
modes of its preparation.--From the Coffee-Drinker's Manual, translated from the French.

Ivy.

Attached to the officers' barracks at Winchester, is a very fine specimen of ivy; its trunk
has been severed off to a height of more than two feet from the ground, yet it has for years
continued in healthy vegetation.--Gard. Mag.

Parasite Sycamore.

In Kinmel Park, Denbighshire, is an oak tree, which, twenty or thirty years ago, lost one of
its largest branches by the wind, and a partial decay was the consequence; a key from a neighbouring
sycamore fell into the fracture, which, vegetating, has formed for the old mutilated oak a
new head. This parasite appears to have so completely seated itself, that, though the place
of its first lodgment is twelve feet from the ground, it is thought that its roots will very
soon penetrate to the earth, and at last destroy its venerable nurse.--Ibid.

Turpentine.

Common turpentine is the produce of the Scotch pine. Trees with the thickest bark, and which
are most exposed to the sun, generally yield the most turpentine. The first incision is made
near the foot of the tree, and as the resin flows most abundantly in hot weather, the operations
are begun about the end of May, and continued to September. The juice is received into holes
dug in the ground, is afterwards taken out with iron ladles, poured into pails, and removed
to a hollow trunk, capacious enough to hold three or four barrels. Essential oil of turpentine
is obtained by distillation. Common resin is the residuum of the process for obtaining the
essential oil. Tar is obtained from the roots and other parts of old trees. Med. Botany.

Gum Arabic.

The purest and finest gum arabic is brought in caravans to Cairo, by the Arabs of the country
round Mounts Tor and Sinai, who bring it from this distance on the backs of camels, sown up
in bags, and often adulterated with sand, &c. The gum exudes spontaneously from the bark and
trunk of the branches of the tree, in a soft, nearly fluid state, and hardens by exposure to
the air, or heat of the sun. It begins to flow in December, immediately after the rainy season,
near the flowering time of the tree. Afterwards, as the weather becomes hotter, incisions are
made through the bark, to assist the transudation of the juice.--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS

       *       *       *       *       *

RECOLLECTIONS OF A R*T.

Written by Himself.

From Blackwood's Magazine.

This is a pleasant piece of satire upon the autobiographic mania of the present day. The original
article extends to twenty pages, and is throughout a masterly graphic sketch. We have marked
a few extracts, which we shall endeavour to connect.

  "A R--t! a R--t! clap to the door."

POPE.

As I intend to write the following pages entirely for my own amusement, and as they will most
probably never meet the eye of mortal man, who alone can decipher them, it is unnecessary for
me to make any observations on the doctrine of metempsychosis, to which indeed my reader (if
there shall ever be one) may perhaps not be inclined to give implicit belief. It is unnecessary
for me, therefore, to begin by alluding to my former visit to this earth. I shall not even
hint, whether if it ever took place, it was in antediluvian ages, or during the Babylonian,
Grecian, or Roman glory; or in more modern times. Be assured, however, gentle reader, (if any
there ever be,) that I have the faculty of observation--that I have seen many generations of
men--that I have been in almost every corner of the habitable world, and that I am intimately
acquainted with the history of mankind.--(Sir Walter Scott's Novels I have listened to with
the greatest attention!)--I have eat opium in Constantinople--garlic in Italy--potatoes in
Ireland. I have dabbled my whiskers in Guava jelly--have drunk rack at Delhi, and at New South
Wales I have enjoyed the luxuries of Kangaroo soup and Opossum gravy. I have been at the Highland-moors
with young Englishmen--at Melton with young Scotsmen, and at bathing-quarters with old dowagers
and their daughters. I have travelled in all ways--by seas--by land--on foot--on horseback--in
a carriage--in a ship--in a palanquin--in a muff; but the motion of the camel I never could
bear, it so jolted my poor old bones, and discomposed my whole body. India never agreed well
with me. The insects, not to mention the serpents, annoyed me. The heat made me quite bilious;
and, indeed, I began to feel my liver affected. And however partial I naturally was to perfumes,
I soon had a great dislike to the strong smell of musk, which I felt about myself, and which,
as I observe every historian agrees, very soon begins to appear in all of my species who reside
for any time in India. Musk should not of itself be disagreeable; but to have it constantly
below one's nose, and to have every thing you touch smelling of it, you may easily conceive
must be very annoying.

The Count de Buffon, whom we reckon one of our best historians, I see, says we are an omnivorous
animal, and that we only seem to prefer hard substances to those which are tender or succulent.
In this, however, he is mistaken; at least I can answer for myself. I know, for my part, I
prefer mulligatawney and a tender young chicken, to an old pair of boots or a well-picked bone.

I have the misfortune, my reader, whoever you may be, to belong to a race to which you have
an aversion; I may say a perfect horror. I am a wretched proscribed animal. A lady would faint
at the sight of me; and if I should merely run across a room, a whole legion of boys and footmen
would be after me; and if they should kill me, they themselves, and I am afraid every other
person, would give them credit for doing a meritorious action. But, gentle reader, our character
is worse than it should be. Although we never received any kindness from man, I am sure I can
answer for myself, at least, I have not very often done him mischief for mischief's sake; and
do remember that I did not choose my own form, and that perhaps I am now doomed to animate
it from the contempt and cruelty, with which, in better days, I may have used the species.
But I moralize, and this does not well suit my present condition. You may think it as ridiculous
an idea as an oyster in love, which, I remember, used to tickle my fancy. I must only for one
moment be allowed to observe, that man bestows far too much care and attention on that green-eyed
monster, which I do detest--I mean the cat. If we were caressed and made much of like it, and
half so carefully attended to, I am sure we would make a much better return, and be truly grateful
and attached. My friend Buffon seems perfectly to understand their character, and I must be
allowed to quote a sentence or two from him, which I know will be much more credited than any
thing I could myself say. "They possess," says he, "an innate malice, and perverse disposition,
which increase as they grow up, and which education teaches them to conceal, but not to subdue.
From determined robbers, the best education can only convert them into flattering thieves,
for they have address, subtlety, and desire of plunder." ... "They easily assume the habits
of society, but never acquire its manners, for they have only the appearance of attachment
and friendship." And again he says, "the cat appears to have no feelings which are not interested--to
have no affection which is not conditional-- and to carry on no intercourse with man, but with
the view of turning it to his own advantage. Even the tamest are under no subjection, for they
act merely to please themselves."

The dog is a very different animal. He is really attached to his master, and only lives to
serve him. A dog is a perfect gentleman, and I love to fight with gentlemen.

The Apostle Paul, in his Epistle to the Philippians, says,--"Beware of dogs!" c. iii. v. 2.
Now, I cannot help always having thought, that he must have meant cats. It is very easy to
suppose the Greek word "[Greek: kunas]," may have crept in instead of "[Greek: galas]" and
this, indeed, is I believe, corroborated by the folio manuscript copy of the Bible, of 1223,
in the British Museum.

Our race is generally said to have come from some of the islands in the Levant, or according
to others, from Sweden; but I can ascertain with certainty, that my family came to France along
with the Huns, and that my immediate ancestors came over to England with William the Conqueror,
in 1066. I consider my blood, therefore, as purely British as any of the inhabitants of the
island. There is a tradition among us, that the descendants of the pair who cruised with old
Noah, settled in the north of Asia, and that we were to be found no where else for about 500
years afterwards. As to this, however, I do not pretend to speak with certainty; but one thing
I know, that wherever man is seen to inhabit, we are to be found--wherever he goes, we attend
him. We sent out parties to make discoveries with Vasquez de Gama, Dampier, Anson, and Cook,
and although we English gentlemen (who have no blood-relationship with the Norwegians) are
known to have such a natural abhorrence at cold, the love of science prevailed, and a strong
party were sent to the frozen seas with Ross, Lyon, and Parry. Pontoppidan sagely observes,
that "neither the wood nor water R*ts can live farther north than Norway; that there are several
districts, as that of Hordenvor, in the diocese of Bergen, and others in the diocese of Aggerhum,
where no R*ts are to be found; and that the R*ts on the south banks of the Vormen soon perish,
when carried to the north side of it." But we do not reckon Mr. Pontoppidan a historian implicitly
to be believed, and indeed the Admiralty took such care of us, that we might have remained
for years at the Pole itself, without even having the toothache!

We always accompany the first visiters of countries, and when they take possession for their
king, we do so for ourselves; and without being put to much trouble in carrying out stores,
we have always the best and the pick of every thing. Often have I laughed at the pains man
took to preserve his property from man. Stone and iron are made to do their best-armed sentries
walking night and day--when all the time I have, with the coolest composure, been daily wallowing
in the best of every thing. Nature abhors a vacuum, and will not allow us to starve, especially
in the midst of plenty; but I may safely say, that I never wantonly destroyed, and, if possible,
have always preferred the rich man's store.

Before the flood, as the cave of Yorkshire no doubt proves, we were to be found in this island--but
upon this subject I shall not enter at present. Probably what is now Britain, was not then
an island--I leave this, however, to wiser heads!

In the beginning of the year ----, my parents accompanied the baggage of the ---- Dragoon Guards
to Scotland. They told me they came in the carts with the sergeants' wives, as being the most
comfortable. I was born above one of the stables on the east side of the court of Piershill
barracks, or as I used to hear the soldiers then call it, "Jock's Lodge," which is within a
mile and a half of Edinburgh. My father was a kind, sensible gentleman, and was much esteemed
by all his friends; and I sincerely forgive him for the great desire, and the many attempts
he made to eat me up. It was a natural instinct, and poor fellow, he could not be blamed for
it. If he had succeeded, it would have saved me many vexations and trials, but my poor mother
thought otherwise; and I am sure she fought most valiantly with my father whenever he made
any attempt of the kind.

[He might, perhaps, have lived and died in the barracks where he was born, had it not been
for his miraculous escape from a hunt by the officers of the dragoons. A few nights afterwards
a large band of R*ts made an excursion of several miles, and in returning, remained for a day
or two at Leith. "It being a sea-port, they met with some of their own species from all parts
of the world, the language of most of whom they could not understand."--He travels in the pocket
of a captain to Edinburgh. His adventures in this city are very amusing. He next sails for
Holland.]

We set sail in a few days with a fair wind down the Frith, and soon left the Bass and the May
behind us. I must confess, I was a little afraid, when, for the first time, I was out of sight
of land. It is a dismal thought to have nothing but sea and sky around, and only a frail plank
between us and the fathomless depths of ocean. This was my first voyage; but many a day and
month and year have I spent on the water since that time.

I was a little squeamish or so for the first day, but nothing like some of our passengers.
The great secret I have always found, is to eat plenty, and drink a little brandy; that is
much better than all your quack receipts.

We had a dog on board, but he was a lazy, mangy fellow, and gave us little trouble. The wind
continued favourable, and on the sixth evening, the lights of Goeree and Helvoetsluis were
visible. Some of the passengers left us at the latter town; but I merely went ashore and took
a rapid look of the streets, and of the guard-ship, which was in the Dock in the centre of
the town, and returned to the smack by the captain's boat. I saw rather a curious scene on
board the man-of-war. Some of her men had been engaged in a row the previous night, and were
sentenced to be flogged. After being stripped, they seemed to dip each man in the water before
commencing the more disagreeable part of the operation. If I had not been in such a hurry,
I should certainly have made bold to have carried a biscuit to a poor little midshipman, who
was condemned to remain twelve hours at the mast-head for some nonsense or other, and who looked
most miserably cold.

Mynheer is certainly a strange fat-bottomed animal after all. His pipe never seems to be out
of his mouth, nor his hands out of his pockets. The pilots who came on board, with their very
little hats, their immense wide, short breeches, and large wooden shoes, surprised me not a
little. The Dutch get the credit of being very cleanly, but I cannot say much as to that, in
their persons at least. The Bad Huis, or Bath Hotel, which is on the Boom Keys, the best street
in Rotterdam, was recommended to me as the only one a gentleman could go to, and there accordingly
I and four of the passengers took up our quarters.

Upon the whole, there did not appear much to be seen in the town. The inhabitants seemed more
an eating and drinking sort of people than any thing else. Their ferries through the town are
a very great nuisance, as one cannot always have a doit about them; and a surly, brown, Dutch
rascal at one time had the impudence to stop me till I had to borrow from a friend. The statue
of Erasmus is a shabby concern.

A party were intending, I found, to make a trip along the Rhine; so I thought I could not do
better than join them. We went by the Hague, Haarlem, and Amsterdam. With the last, I was much
disappointed. They say it contains 200,000 human inhabitants, but it has not even a tolerable
hotel. The famous Haarlem tulip gardens, I of course visited, particularly those of Van Eeden.
I wonder what the fools could see in tulips, who gave 10,000 guilders for one root. The organ
is certainly very fine; but it nearly cracked the drum of my ears.

When at Amsterdam, I was nearly carried off to Archangel, which would, at the time, have been
rather a bore indeed. After a grand let-off, given by a rich burgo-master, to which my friends
got me a special invitation, I incautiously exceeded in the curaçoa, of which I did not at
all then know the strength. The vessel put to sea, and I had enough to do to secure my retreat
in the pilot boat. From Amsterdam we proceeded in a curious, large diligence to Utrecht, and
from that to Cologne. We had twelve (human) passengers inside, who smoked the whole time without
intermission. I, as well as all my species, are most partial to perfumes, and I did not therefore
fail to visit the representative of Signior Jean Marie Farina in his shop, No. 4568, à la rue
haute à Cologne. Nothing struck me particularly in this town of Cologne. The streets are very
narrow, and seemed dull enough. To be sure, the principal one, which is said to be a German
league in length, is rather fine. The old convent of the Ladies of St. Ursula, is curious at
least. They show you in it the bones of 11,000 virgins, who they say were murdered by the Huns
at the time of their invasion, when they destroyed the town. I might easily have had a taste
of them; but I had no fancy for such antiquated old maids. In the Cathedral, or Dom, as they
call it, you see the tomb of the three famous kings of Cologne, and the gold and silver chests
which contain the bones of the Holy Engelberth. I don't think, in the whole town, there is
any thing else worth the trouble of looking at. The hotel "Le Prince Charles," I found tolerably
comfortable: there is a good French cook, but he is a saucy fellow.

(To be concluded in our next.)

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

A MOTHER'S LOVE

  Oh, beauteous were my baby's dark blue eyes,
  Evermore turning to his mother's face,
  So dove-like soft, yet bright as summer skies;
  And pure his cheek as roses, ere the trace
  Of earthly blight or stain their tints disgrace.
  O'er my loved child enraptured still I hung;
  No joy in life could those sweet hours replace,
  When by his cradle low I watched and sung--
  While still in memory's ear his father's promise rung.

  Long, long I wept with weak and piteous cry
  O'er my sweet infant, in its rosy bloom,
  As memory brought my hours of agony
  Again before my mind:--I mourned his doom;
  I mourned my own: the sunny little room
  In which, opress'd by sickness, now I lay,
  Weeping for sorrows past, and woes to come,
  Had been my own in childhood's early day.
  Oh! could those years indeed so soon have passed away!

  Past, as the waters of the running brook;
  Fled, as the summer winds that fan the flowers!
  All that remained, a word--a tone--a look,
  Impressed, by chance, in those bright joyous hours;
  Blossoms which, culled from youth's light fairy bowers,
  Still float with lingering scent, as loath to fade,
  In spite of sin's remorseless, 'whelming powers,
  Above the wreck which time and grief have made.
  Nursed with the dew of tears, though low in ruin laid.

The Sorrows of Rosalie.

       *       *       *       *       *

FAGGING AT WINCHESTER SCHOOL.

The following outline of a recent quarrel at Winchester School serves to illustrate the System
of Fagging as practised at one of our leading schools, among the "future clergy, lawyers, legislators,
and peers of England." It is extracted from a pamphlet by Sir Alexander Malet, Bart.; and we
hope this expose will lead to the extermination of the "custom:"--

The prefects, or eight senior boys of the school, are in the habit of fagging the juniors;
and that they may have a greater command of their services during meal times, they appoint
one of the junior boys with the title of course keeper, whose business it is to take care that
whilst the prefects are at breakfast or supper, the juniors sit upon a certain cross bench
at the top of the hall, that they may be forthcoming whenever a prefect requires any thing
to be done. During that part of the short half-year in which there are no fires kept, a sufficient
number of boys for this service was generally furnished from the fourth class, and it was considered
that the junior part of the fifth class, which is next in the ascending scale, was exempt from
so disagreeable a servitude. It appears, however, that within these few years, there has been
a much greater press of boys to enter the school than formerly; the consequence has been, that
they have come to it older and more advanced in their studies than formerly, and the upper
departments of the school have received a greater accession of numbers in proportion than the
lower classes. The fourth class, therefore, gradually furnishing a smaller number of fags,
the prefects issued a mandate, that the junior part of the fifth class should share with the
fourth in the duty of going on hall: this was for some time submitted to; but at length one
of the boys of this class intentionally abstained from seating himself on the cross bench at
supper-time, and being seen by the senior prefect, and desired by him to go on hall, refused
to do so, and argued the point as a matter of right, alleging, as the ancient usage of the
school, the exemption of the junior part of the fifth class from this duty till the commencement
of fires; he referred to the course keeper as being the depositary of the rules, and expressed
himself prepared to abide by his decision. The course keeper, who does not appear to have been
very well versed in the usages of the school, decided that the boy ought to go on hall; and
the prefect therefore resolved, not only to enforce this new rule, but to punish the contumely
of this unlucky boy by giving him a public chastisement. To this, however, the junior did not
feel inclined to submit, and a second prefect laid hold of him, that he might not evade the
beating destined for him: a simultaneous movement then took place amongst the juniors, who
pinioned the two prefects, released the boy who was being beaten, and gave them to understand
that the intended chastisement should not be inflicted. The prefects instantly laid a complaint
before the head master, who expelled the boy who had refused to go on hall, and five others,
who had appeared most active in preventing the prefect from punishing him.

       *       *       *       *       *

WRITTEN IN A LADY'S ALBUM.

  As sweeps the bark before the breeze,
    While waters coldly close around,
  Till of her pathway through the seas
    The track no more is found;
  Thus passing down Oblivion's tide,
    The beauteous visions of the mind
  Fleet as that ocean pageant glide,
    And leave no trace behind.

