THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

A MAGAZINE OF LITERATURE, ART, AND POLITICS.

       *       *       *       *       *

VOLUME IX.

M DCCC LXII.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.                                         ISSUE.

A.C., The Experiences of the,                     52. Agnes of Sorrento,                  
51, 52, 53, 54. American Civilization,                            54. Author of "Charles Auchester,"
The,               56. Autobiographical Sketches of a Strength-Seeker,   51.

Childhood, Concerning the Sorrows of,             53. Clough, Arthur Hugh,                
54. Cooper, James Fenimore,                           52.

Ease in Work,                                     52.

Forester, The,                                    54.
Fremont's Hundred Days in Missouri,               51, 52, 53.
Fruits of Free Labor in the Smaller Islands
  of the British West Indies,                     53.

German Burns, The,                                54.

Health of Our Girls, The,                         56. Hindrance,                          
55. Horrors of San Domingo, The,                      56.

Individuality,                                    54.

Jefferson and Slavery,                            51. John Lamar,                         
54.

Letter to a Young Contributor,                    54. Light Literature,                   
51. Love and Skates,                                  51, 52.

Man under Sealed Orders,                          55. Methods of Study in Natural History,
51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56. My Garden,                                        55.

Old Age,                                          51. Our Artists in Italy,               
52.

Père Antoine's Date-Palm,                         56. Pilgrimage to Old Boston,           
51.

Raft that no Man made, A,                         53. Richelieu, The Statesmanship of,    
55. Rifle, The Use of the,                            53.

Saltpetre as a Source of Power,                   55.
Sam Adams Regiments in the Town of Boston, The,   56.
Slavery, in its Principles, Development,
  and Expedients,                                 55.
Snow,                                             52.
"Solid Operations in Virginia",                   56.
South Breaker, The,                               55, 56.
Spain, The Rehabilitation of,                     53.
Spirits,                                          55.
Story of To-Day, A,                               51, 52, 53.

Taxation,                                         53. Then and Now in the Old Dominion,   
54.

Walking,                                          56. War and Literature,                 
56. Weather in War,                                   55. What shall We do with Them?,    
54.

POETRY.

Astraea at the Capitol,                           56. At Port Royal, 1861,                
52.

Battle-Hymn of the Republic,                      52. Birdofredum Sawin, Esq., to Mr. Hosea
Biglow,     51, 53.

Compensation,                                     54.

Exodus,                                           54.

Lines written under a Portrait of Theodore
  Winthrop,                                       55.
Lyrics of the Street,                             55.

Mason and Slidell: A Yankee Idyl,                 52. Message of Jeff Davis in Secret Session,
A,       54. Midwinter,                                        52. Mountain Pictures,     
53, 54.

Order for a Picture, An,                          56. Out of the Body to God,             
56.

Per Tenebras, Lumina,                             51.

Sonnet,                                           56.
Southern Cross, The,                              53.
Speech of Hon'ble Preserved Doe in Secret
  Caucus,                                         55.
Strasburg Clock, The,                             54.
Sunthin' in the Pastoral Line,                    56.

Titmouse, The,                                    55. True Heroine, The,                  
51.

Under the Snow,                                   55.

Volunteer, The,                                   55. Voyage of the Good Ship Union,      
53.

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

Arnold's Lectures on translating Homer,           51.

Book about Doctors, A,                            54.
Botta's Discourse on the Life, Character,
  and Policy of Count Cavour,                     55.

Cloister and the Hearth, The,                     52.

De Vere, Aubrey, Poems by,                        54. Dickens's Works, Household Edition, 
55.

Harris's Insects Injurious to Vegetation,         55.

John Brent,                                       54.

Leigh Hunt, Correspondence of,                    55. Lessons in Life,                    
51.

Müller's Lectures on the Science of Language,     51.

Newman's Homeric Translation in Theory and
  in Practice,                                    51.

Pauli's Pictures of Old England,                  55.

Record of an Obscure Man,                         55.

Tragedy of Errors,                                55.

Willmott's English Sacred Poetry,                 52.

FOREIGN LITERATURE,                               54, 55.

OBITUARY,                                         51.

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS,                     52, 53, 54, 55.

       *       *       *       *       *

METHODS OF STUDY IN NATURAL HISTORY.

I.

It is my intention, in this series of papers, to give the history of the progress in Natural
History from the beginning,--to show how men first approached Nature,--how the facts of Natural
History have been accumulated, and how those facts have been converted into science. In so
doing, I shall present the methods employed in Natural History on a wider scale and with broader
generalizations than if I limited myself to the study as it exists to-day. The history of humanity,
in its efforts to understand the Creation, resembles the development of any individual mind
engaged in the same direction. It has its infancy, with the first recognition of surrounding
objects; and, indeed, the early observers seem to us like children in their first attempts
to understand the world in which they live. But these efforts, that appear childish to us now,
were the first steps in that field of knowledge which is so extensive that all our progress
seems only to show us how much is left to do.

Aristotle is the representative of the learning of antiquity in Natural Science. The great
mind of Greece in his day, and a leader in all the intellectual culture of his time, he was
especially a naturalist, and his work on Natural History is a record not only of his own investigations,
but of all preceding study in this department. It is evident that even then much had been done,
and, in allusion to certain peculiarities of the human frame, which he does not describe in
full, he refers his readers to familiar works, saying, that illustrations in point may be found
in anatomical text-books.[1]

    [1] See Aristotle's Zoölogy, Book I., Chapter xiv.

Strange that in Aristotle's day, two thousand years ago, such books should have been in general
use, and that in our time we are still in want of elementary text-books of Natural History,
having special reference to the animals of our own country, and adapted to the use of schools.
One fact in Aristotle's "History of Animals" is very striking, and makes it difficult for us
to understand much of its contents. It never occurs to him that a time may come when the Greek
language--the language of all culture and science in his time--would not be the language of
all cultivated men. He took, therefore, little pains to characterize the animals he alludes
to, otherwise than by their current names; and of his descriptions of their habits and peculiarities,
much is lost upon us from their local character and expression. There is also a total absence
of systematic form, of any classification or framework to express the divisions of the animal
kingdom into larger or lesser groups. His only divisions are genera and species: classes, orders,
and families, as we understand them now, are quite foreign to the Greek conception of the animal
kingdom. Fishes and birds, for instance, they considered as genera, and their different representatives
as species. They grouped together quadrupeds also in contradistinction to animals with legs
and wings, and they distinguished those that bring forth living young from those that lay eggs.
But though a system of Nature was not familiar even to their great philosopher, and Aristotle
had not arrived at the idea of a classification on general principles, he yet stimulated a
search into the closer affinities among animals by the differences he pointed out. He divided
the animal kingdom into two groups, which he called Enaima and Anaima, or animals with blood
and animals without blood. We must remember, however, that by the word blood he designated
only the red fluid circulating in the higher animals; whereas a fluid akin to blood exists
in all animals, variously colored in some, but colorless in a large number of others.

After Aristotle, a long period elapsed without any addition to the information he left us.
Rome and the Middle Ages gave us nothing, and even Pliny added hardly a fact to those that
Aristotle recorded. And though the great naturalists of the sixteenth century gave a new impulse
to this study, their investigations were chiefly directed towards a minute acquaintance with
the animals they had an opportunity of observing, mingled with commentaries upon the ancients.
Systematic Zoölogy was but little advanced by their efforts.

We must come down to the last century, to Linnæus, before we find the history taken up where
Aristotle had left it, and some of his suggestions carried out with new vigor and vitality.
Aristotle had distinguished only between genera and species; Linnæus took hold of this idea,
and gave special names to other groups, of different weight and value. Besides species and
genera, he gives us orders and classes,--considering classes the most comprehensive, then orders,
then genera, then species. He did not, however, represent these groups as distinguished by
their nature, but only by their range; they were still to him, as genera and species had been
to Aristotle, only larger or smaller groups, not founded upon and limited by different categories
of structure. He divided the animal kingdom into six classes, which I give here, as we shall
have occasion to compare them with other classifications:--Mammalia, Birds, Reptiles, Fishes,
Insects, Worms.

That this classification should have expressed all that was known in the last century of the
most general relations among animals only shows how difficult it is to generalize on such a
subject; nor should we expect to find it an easy task, when we remember the vast number of
species (about a quarter of a million) already noticed by naturalists. Linnæus succeeded, however,
in finding a common character on which to unite most of his classes; but the Mammalia, that
group to which we ourselves belong, remained very imperfect. Indeed, in the earlier editions
of his classification, he does not apply the name of Mammalia to this class, but calls the
higher animals Quadrupedia, characterizing them as the animals with four legs and covered with
fur or hair, that bring forth living young and nurse them with milk. In thus admitting external
features as class characters, he excluded many animals which by their mode of reproduction,
as well as by their respiration and circulation, belong to this class as much as the Quadrupeds,--as,
for instance, all the Cetaceans, (Whales, Porpoises, and the like,) which, though they have
not legs, nor are their bodies covered with hair or fur, yet bring forth living young, nurse
them with milk, are warm-blooded and air-breathing. As more was learned of these animals, there
arose serious discussion and criticism among contemporary naturalists respecting the classification
of Linnæus, all of which led to a clearer insight into the true relations among animals. Linnæus
himself, in his last edition of the "Systema Naturæ," shows us what important progress he had
made since he first announced his views; for he there substitutes for the name of Quadrupedia
that of Mammalia, including among them the Whales, which he characterizes as air-breathing,
warm-blooded, and bringing forth living young which they nurse with milk. Thus the very deficiencies
of his classification stimulated naturalists to new criticism and investigation into the true
limits of classes, and led to the recognition of one most important principle,--that such groups
are founded, not on external appearance, but on internal structure, and that internal structure,
therefore, is the thing to be studied. The group of Quadrupeds was not the only defective one
in this classification of Linnæus; his class of Worms, also, was most heterogeneous, for he
included among them Shell-Fishes, Slugs, Star-Fishes, Sea-Urchins, and other animals that bear
no relation whatever to the class of Worms.

But whatever its defects, the classification of Linnæus was the first attempt at grouping animals
together according to certain common structural characters. His followers and pupils engaged
at once in a scrutiny of the differences and similarities among animals, which soon led to
a great increase in the number of classes: instead of six, there were presently nine, twelve,
and more. But till Cuvier's time there was no great principle of classification. Facts were
accumulated and more or less systematized, but they were not yet arranged according to law;
the principle was still wanting by which to generalize them and give meaning and vitality to
the whole. It was Cuvier who found the key. He himself tells us how he first began, in his
investigations upon the internal organization of animals, to use his dissections with reference
to finding the true relations between animals, and how, ever after, his knowledge of anatomy
assisted him in his classifications, and his classifications threw new light again on his anatomical
investigations,--each science thus helping to fertilize the other. He was not one of those
superficial observers who are in haste to announce every new fact that they chance to find,
and his first paper[2] specially devoted to classification gave to the world the ripe fruit
of years of study. This was followed by his great work, "Le Règne Animal." He said that animals
were united in their most comprehensive groups, not on special characters, but on different
plans of structure,--moulds, he called them, in which all animals had been cast. He tells us
this in such admirable language that I must, to do justice to his thought, give it in his own
words:--

    "Si l'on considère le règne animal d'après les principes que nous
    venons de poser en se débarrassant des préjugés établis sur les
    divisions anciennement admises, en n'ayant égard qu'à
    l'organisation et à la nature des animaux, et non pas à leur
    grandeur, à leur utilité, au plus ou moins de connaissance que
    nous en avons, ni à toutes les autres circonstances accessoires,
    on trouvera qu'il existe quatre formes principales, quatre plans
    généraux, si l'on peut s'exprimer ainsi, d'après lesquels tous les
    animaux semblent avoir été modelés, et dont les divisions
    ultérieures, de quelque titre que les naturalistes les aient
    décorées, ne sont que des modifications assez légères, fondées sur
    le développement ou l'addition de quelques parties, qui ne
    changent rien à l'essence du plan."  Ann. Mus., Vol. XIX.

The value of this principle was soon tested by its application to facts already known, and
it was found that animals whose affinities had been questionable before were now at once referred
to their true relations with other animals by ascertaining whether they were built on one or
another of these plans. Of such plans or structural conceptions Cuvier found in the whole animal
kingdom only four, which he called Vertebrates, Mollusks, Articulates, and Radiates.

With this new principle as the basis of investigation, it was no longer enough for the naturalist
to know a certain amount of features characteristic of a certain number of animals,--he must
penetrate deep enough into their organization to find the secret of their internal structure.
Till he can do this, he is like the traveller in a strange city, who looks on the exterior
of edifices entirely new to him, but knows nothing of the plan of their internal architecture.
To be able to read in the finished structure the plan on which the whole is built is now essential
to every naturalist.

There have been many criticisms on this division of Cuvier's, and many attempts to change it;
but though some improvements have been made in the details of his classification, all departures
from its great fundamental principle are errors, and do but lead us away from the recognition
of the true affinities among animals.

Each of these plans may be stated in the most general terms. In the Vertebrates there is a
vertebral column terminating in a prominent head; this column has an arch above and an arch
below, forming a double internal cavity. The parts are symmetrically arranged on either side
of the longitudinal axis of the body. In the Mollusks, also, the parts are arranged according
to a bilateral symmetry on either side of the body, but the body has but one cavity, and is
a soft, concentrated mass, without a distinct individualization of parts. In the Articulates
there is but one cavity, and the parts are here again arranged on either side of the longitudinal
axis, but in these animals the whole body is divided from end to end into transverse rings
or joints movable upon each other. In the Radiates we lose sight of the bilateral symmetry
so prevalent in the other three, except as a very subordinate element of structure; the plan
of this lowest type is an organic sphere, in which all parts bear definite relations to a vertical
axis.

It is not upon any special features, then, that these largest divisions of the animal kingdom
are based, but simply upon the general structural idea. Striking as this statement was, it
was coldly received at first by contemporary naturalists: they could hardly grasp Cuvier's
wide generalizations, and perhaps there was also some jealousy of the grandeur of his views.
Whatever the cause, his principle of classification was not fully appreciated; but it opened
a new road for study, and gave us the keynote to the natural affinities among animals. Lamarck,
his contemporary, not recognizing the truth of this principle, distributed the animal kingdom
into two great divisions, which he calls Vertebrates and Invertebrates. Ehrenberg also, at
a later period, announced another division under two heads,--those with a continuous solid
nervous centre, and those with merely scattered nervous swellings.[3]

    [3] For more details upon the different systems of Zoölogy, see
        Agassiz's Essay on Classification in his Contributions to the
        Natural History of the United States, Vol. I.

But there was no real progress in either of these latter classifications, so far as the primary
divisions are concerned; for they correspond to the old division of Aristotle, under the head
of animals with or without blood, the Enaima and Anaima. This coincidence between systems based
on different foundations may teach us that every structural combination includes certain inherent
necessities which will bring animals together on whatever set of features we try to classify
them; so that the division of Aristotle, founded on the circulating fluids, or that of Lamarck,
on the absence or presence of a backbone, or that of Ehrenberg, on the differences of the nervous
system, cover the same ground. Lamarck attempted also to use the faculties of animals as a
groundwork for division among them. But our knowledge of the psychology of animals is still
too imperfect to justify any such use of it. His divisions into Apathetic, Sensitive, and Intelligent
animals are entirely theoretical. He places, for instance, Fishes and Reptiles among the Intelligent
animals, as distinguished from Crustacea and Insects, which he refers to the second division.
But one would be puzzled to say how the former manifest more intelligence than the latter,
or why the latter should be placed among the Sensitive animals. Again, some of the animals
that he calls Apathetic have been proved by later investigators to show an affection and care
for their young, seemingly quite inconsistent with the epithet he has applied to them. In fact,
we know so little of the faculties of animals that any classification based upon our present
information about them must be very imperfect.

Many modifications of Cuvier's great divisions have been attempted. Some naturalists, for instance,
have divided off a part of the Radiates and Articulates, insisting upon some special features
of structure, and mistaking these for the more important and general characteristics of their
respective plans. All subsequent investigations of such would-be improvements show them to
be retrograde movements, only proving more clearly that Cuvier detected in his four plans all
the great structural ideas on which the vast variety of animals is founded. This result is
of greater importance than may at first appear. Upon it depends the question, whether all such
classifications represent merely individual impressions and opinions of men, or whether there
is really something in Nature that presses upon us certain divisions among animals, certain
affinities, certain limitations, founded upon essential principles of organization. Are our
systems the inventions of naturalists, or only their reading of the Book of Nature? and can
that book have more than one reading? If these classifications are not mere inventions, if
they are not an attempt to classify for our own convenience the objects we study, then they
are thoughts which, whether we detect them or not, are expressed in Nature,--then Nature is
the work of thought, the production of intelligence carried out according to plan, therefore
premeditated,--and in our study of natural objects we are approaching the thoughts of the Creator,
reading His conceptions, interpreting a system that is His and not ours.

All the divergence from the simplicity and grandeur of this division of the animal kingdom
arises from an inability to distinguish between a plan and the execution, of a plan. We allow
the details to shut out the plan itself, which exists quite independent of special forms. I
hope we shall find a meaning in all these plans that will prove them to be the parts of one
great conception and the work of one Mind.

II.

Proceeding upon the view that there is a close analogy between the way in which every individual
student penetrates into Nature and the progress of science as a whole in the history of humanity,
I continue my sketch of the successive steps that have led to our present state of knowledge.
I began with Aristotle, and showed that this great philosopher, though he prepared a digest
of all the knowledge belonging to his time, yet did not feel the necessity of any system or
of any scientific language differing from the common mode of expression of his day. He presents
his information as a man with his eyes open narrates in a familiar style what he sees. As civilization
spread and science had its representatives in other countries besides Greece, it became indispensable
to have a common scientific language, a technical nomenclature, combining many objects under
common names, and enabling every naturalist to express the results of his observations readily
and simply in a manner intelligible to all other students of Natural History.

Linnæus devised such a system, and to him we owe a most simple and comprehensive scientific
mode of designating animals and plants. It may at first seem no advantage to give up the common
names of the vernacular and adopt the unfamiliar ones, but a word of explanation will make
the object clear. Perceiving, for instance, the close relations between certain members of
the larger groups, Linnæus gave to them names that should be common to all, and which are called
generic names,--as we speak of Ducks, when we would designate in one word the Mallard, the
Widgeon, the Canvas-Back, etc.; but to these generic names he added qualifying epithets, called
specific names, to indicate the different kinds in each group. For example, the Lion, the Tiger,
the Panther, the Domestic Cat constitute such a natural group, which Linnæus called Felis,
Cat, indicating the whole genus; but the species he designates as Felis catus, the Domestic
Cat,--Felis leo, the Lion,--Felis tigris, the Tiger,--Felis panthera, the Panther. So he called
all the Dogs Canis; but for the different kinds we have Canis familiaris, the Domestic Dog,--Canis
lupus, the Wolf,--Canis vulpes, the Fox, etc.

In some families of the vegetable kingdom we can appreciate better the application of this
nomenclature, because we have something corresponding to it in the vernacular. We have, for
instance, one name for all the Oaks, but we call the different kinds Swamp Oak, Red Oak, White
Oak, Chestnut Oak, etc. So Linnæus, in his botanical nomenclature, called all the Oaks by the
generic name Quercus, (characterizing them by their fruit, the acorn, common to all,) and qualified
them as Quercus bicolor, Quercus rubra, Quercus alba, Quercus castanea, etc., etc. His nomenclature,
being so easy of application, became at once exceedingly popular and made him the great scientific
legislator of his century. He insisted on Latin names, because, if every naturalist should
use his own language, it must lead to great confusion, and this Latin nomenclature of double
significance was adopted by all. Another advantage of this binominal Latin nomenclature consists
in preventing the confusion frequently arising from the use of the same name to designate different
animals in different parts of the world,--as, for instance, the name of Robin, used in America
to designate a bird of the Thrush family, entirely different from the Robin of the Old World,--or
of different names for the same animal, as Perch or Chogset or Burgall for our Cunner. Nothing
is more to be deprecated than an over-appreciation of technicalities, valuing the name more
highly than the thing; but some knowledge of this nomenclature is necessary to every student
of Nature.

The improvements in science thus far were chiefly verbal. Cuvier now came forward and added
a principle. He showed that all animals are built upon a certain number of definite plans.
This momentous step, the significance of which is not yet appreciated to its full extent; for,
had its importance been understood, the efforts of naturalists would have been directed toward
a further illustration of the distinctive characteristics of all the plans,--instead of which,
the division of the animal kingdom into larger and smaller groups chiefly attracted their attention,
and has been carried too far by some of them. Linnæus began with six classes, Cuvier brought
them up to nineteen, and at last the animal kingdom was subdivided by subsequent investigators
into twenty-eight classes. This multiplication of divisions, however, soon suggested an important
question: How far are these divisions natural or inherent in the objects themselves, and not
dependent on individual views?

While Linnæus pointed out classes, orders, genera, and species, other naturalists had detected
other divisions among animals, called families. Lamarck, who had been a distinguished botanist
before he began his study of the animal kingdom, brought to his zoölogical researches his previous
methods of investigation. Families in the vegetable kingdom had long been distinguished by
French botanists; and one cannot examine the groups they call by this name, without perceiving,
that, though they bring them together and describe them according to other characters, they
have been unconsciously led to unite them from the general similarity of their port and bearing.
Take, for instance, the families of Pines, Oaks, Beeches, Maples, etc., and you feel at once,
that, besides the common characters given in the technical descriptions of these trees, there
is also a general resemblance among them that would naturally lead us to associate them together,
even if we knew nothing of the other features of their structure. By an instinctive recognition
of this family likeness between plants, botanists have been led to seek for structural characters
on which to unite them, and the groups so founded generally correspond with the combinations
suggested by their appearance.

By a like process Lamarck combined animals into families. His method was adopted by French
naturalists generally, and found favor especially with Cuvier, who was particularly successful
in limiting families among animals, and in naming them happily, generally selecting names expressive
of the features on which the groups were founded, or borrowing them from familiar animals.
Much, indeed, depends upon the pleasant sound and the significance of a name; for an idea reaches
the mind more easily when well expressed, and Cuvier's names were both simple and significant.
His descriptions are also remarkable for their graphic precision,--giving all that is essential,
omitting all that is merely accessory. He has given us the key-note to his progress in his
own expressive language:--

    "Je dus donc, et cette obligation me prit un temps considérable,
    je dus faire marcher de front l'anatomie et la zoologie, les
    dissections et le classement; chercher dans mes premières
    remarques sur l'organisation des distributions meilleures; m'en
    servir pour arriver à des remarques nouvelles; employer encore ces
    remarques à perfectionner les distributions; faire sortir enfin de
    cette fécondation mutuelle des deux sciences, l'une par l'autre,
    un système zoologique propre à servir d'introducteur et de guide
    dans le champ de l'anatomie, et un corps de doctrine anatomique
    propre à servir de développement et d'explication au système
    zoologique."

It is deeply to be lamented that so many naturalists have entirely overlooked this significant
advice of Cuvier's, to combine zoölogical and anatomical studies in order to arrive at a clearer
perception of the true affinities among animals. To sum it up in one word, he tells us that
the secret of his method is "comparison,"--ever comparing and comparing throughout the enormous
range of his knowledge of the organization of animals, and founding upon the differences as
well as the similarities those broad generalizations under which he has included all animal
structures. And this method, so prolific in his hands, has also a lesson for us all. In this
country there is a growing interest in the study of Nature; but while there exist hundreds
of elementary works illustrating the native animals of Europe, there are few such books here
to satisfy the demand for information respecting the animals of our land and water. We are
thus forced to turn more and more to our own investigations and less to authority; and the
true method of obtaining independent knowledge is this very method of Cuvier's,--comparison.

Let us make the most common application of it to natural objects. Suppose we see together a
Dog, a Cat, a Bear, a Horse, a Cow, and a Deer. The first feature that strikes us as common
to any two of them is the horn in the Cow and Deer. But how shall we associate either of the
others with these? We examine the teeth, and find those of the Dog, the Cat, and the Bear sharp
and cutting, while those of the Cow, the Deer, and the Horse have flat surfaces, adapted to
grinding and chewing, rather than cutting and tearing. We compare these features of their structure
with the habits of these animals, and find that the first are carnivorous, that they seize
and tear their prey, while the others are herbivorous or grazing animals, living only on vegetable
substances, which they chew and grind. We compare farther the Horse and Cow, and find that
the Horse has front teeth both in the upper and lower jaw, while the Cow has them only in the
lower; and going still farther and comparing the internal with the external features, we find
this arrangement of the teeth in direct relation to the different structure of the stomach
in the two animals,--the Cow having a stomach with four pouches, adapted to a mode of digestion
by which the food is prepared for the second mastication, while the Horse has a simple stomach.
Comparing the Cow and the Deer, we find that the digestive apparatus is the same in both; but
though they both have horns, in the Cow the horn is hollow, and remains through life firmly
attached to the bone, while in the Deer it is solid and is shed every year. With these facts
before us, we cannot hesitate to place the Dog, the Cat, and the Bear in one division, as carnivorous
animals, and the other three in another division as herbivorous animals,--and looking a little
farther, we perceive, that, in common with the Cow and the Deer, the Goat and the Sheep have
cloven feet, and that they are all ruminants, while the Horse has a single hoof, does not ruminate,
and must therefore be separated from them, even though, like them, he is herbivorous.

This is but the simplest illustration, taken from the most familiar objects, of this comparative
method; but the same process is equally applicable to the most intricate problems in animal
structures, and will give us the clue to all true affinities between animals. The education
of a naturalist, now, consists chiefly in learning how to compare. If he have any power of
generalization, when he has collected his facts, this habit of mental comparison will lead
him up to principles, to the great laws of combination. It must not discourage us, that the
process is a slow and laborious one, and the results of one lifetime after all very small.
It might seem invidious, were I to show here how small is the sum total of the work accomplished
even by the great exceptional men, whose names are known throughout the civilized world. But
I may at least be permitted to speak of my own efforts, and to sum up in the fewest words the
result of my life's work. I have devoted my whole life to the study of Nature, and yet a single
sentence may express all that I have done. I have shown that there is a correspondence between
the succession of Fishes in geological times and the different stages of their growth in the
egg,--this is all. It chanced to be a result that was found to apply to other groups and has
led to other conclusions of a like nature. But, such as it is, it has been reached by this
system of comparison, which, though I speak of it now in its application to the study of Natural
History, is equally important in every other branch of knowledge. By the same process the most
mature results of scientific research in Philology, in Ethnology, and in Physical Science are
reached. And let me say that the community should foster the purely intellectual efforts of
scientific men as carefully as they do their elementary schools and their practical institutions,
generally considered so much more useful and important to the public. For from what other source
shall we derive the higher results that are gradually woven into the practical resources of
our life, except from the researches of those very men who study science not for its uses,
but for its truth? It is this that gives it its noblest interest: it must be for truth's sake,
and not even for the sake of its usefulness to humanity, that the scientific man studies Nature.
The application of science to the useful arts requires other abilities, other qualities, other
tools than his; and therefore I say that the man of science who follows his studies into their
practical application is false to his calling. The practical man stands ever ready to take
up the work where the scientific man leaves it, and to adapt it to the material wants and uses
of daily life.

The publication of Cuvier's proposition, that the animal kingdom is built on four plans, created
an extraordinary excitement throughout the scientific world. All naturalists proceeded to test
it, and many soon recognized in it a great scientific truth,--while others, who thought more
of making themselves prominent than of advancing science, proposed poor amendments, that were
sure to be rejected on farther investigation. There were, however, some of these criticisms
and additions that were truly improvements, and touched upon points overlooked by Cuvier. Blainville,
especially, took up the element of form among animals,--whether divided on two sides, whether
radiated, whether irregular, etc. He, however, made the mistake of giving very elaborate names
to animals already known under simpler ones. Why, for instance, call all animals with parts
radiating in every direction Actinomorpha or Actinozoaria, when they had received the significant
name of Radiates? It seemed, to be a new system, when in fact it was only a new name. Ehrenberg,
likewise, made an important distinction, when he united the animals according to the difference
in their nervous systems; but he also incumbered the nomenclature unnecessarily, when he added
to the names Anaima and Enaima of Aristotle those of Myeloneura and Ganglioneura.

But it is not my object to give all the classifications of different authors here, and I will
therefore pass over many noted ones, as those of Burmeister, Milne, Edwards, Siebold and Stannius,
Owen, Leuckart, Vogt, Van Beneden, and others, and proceed to give some account of one investigator
who did as much for the progress of Zoölogy as Cuvier, though he is comparatively little known
among us. Karl Ernst von Baer proposed a classification based, like Cuvier's, upon plan; but
he recognized what Cuvier failed to perceive,--namely, the importance of distinguishing between
type (by which he means exactly what Cuvier means by plan) and complication of structure,--in
other words, between plan and the execution of the plan. He recognized four types, which correspond
exactly to Cuvier's four plans, though he calls them by different names. Let us compare them.

    Cuvier.           Baer.
    Radiates,           Peripheric,
    Mollusks,           Massive,
    Articulates,        Longitudinal,
    Vertebrates.        Doubly Symmetrical.

