The slab upon which the mosaic is made, is generally of Travertine, (or Tiburtine) stones,
connected together by iron cramps. Upon the surface of this a mastic or cementing paste, is
gradually spread, as the progress of the work makes it wanted, which forms the adhesive ground,
or bed, on which the mosaic is laid. This mastic is composed of fine lime from burnt marble,
and finely powdered Travertine stone, mixed to the consistence of a paste, with strong linseed
oil. Into this paste are stuck the smalts, of which the mosaic picture is formed. They are
a mixed species of opaque vitrified glass, partaking of the mixed nature of stone and glass,
and composed of a variety of minerals and materials, coloured for the most part, with different
metallic oxydes. Of these no less than 1,700 different shades are in use; they are manufactured
in Rome in the form of long, slender rods like wires, of different degrees of thickness, and
are cut into pieces of the requisite sizes, from the smallest pin point to an inch. When the
picture is completely finished, and the cement thoroughly dried, it is highly polished.

Mosaic, though an ancient art, is not merely a revived, but an improved one; for the Romans
only used coloured marbles, or natural stones in its composition, which admitted of comparatively
little variety; but the invention of smalts has given it a far wider range, and made the imitation
of painting far closer. The mosaic work at Florence is totally different to this, being merely
inlaying in pietre dure, or natural precious stones, of every variety, which forms beautiful,
and very costly imitations of shells, flowers, figures, &c. but bears no similitude to painting.

Besides this government establishment at Rome, there are hundreds of artists, or artisans,
who carry on the manufactory of mosaics on a small scale. Snuff-boxes, rings, necklaces, brooches,
earrings, &c. are made in immense quantity; and since the English flocked in such numbers to
Rome, all the streets leading to the Piazza di Spagna are lined with the shops of these Musaicisti,
&c.

Oriental shells are made at Rome into beautiful cameos, by the white outer surface being cut
away upon the deeper coloured internal part, forming figures in minute bassi relievi. The subjects
are chiefly taken from ancient gems, and sometimes from sculpture and painting. The shells
used for this purpose are chiefly brought from the Levant; and these shell cameos make remarkably
beautiful ornaments. Hundreds of artists also find support at Rome, in making casts, sulphurs,
&c. from ancient gems and medals, and in selling or fabricating antiques. Marble and stone-cutting
are also beautifully executed both at Rome and Florence--Abridged, (but interspersed) from
"Rome in the 19th Century."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

"I am but a Gatherer and disposer of other men's stuff."--Wotton.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO ****

Moria pur quando vuol non è bisogna mutar ni faccia ni voci per esser un Angelo.--The words
addressed by Lord Herbert of Cherbury, to the beautiful Nun at Murano. (See his Life.)

Translation.

Die when you will, you need not wear At heaven's Court, a form more fair, Than beauty here
on earth has giv'n, Keep but the lovely looks we see--The voice we hear--and you will be An
angel ready made for heaven.

       *       *       *       *       *

A CARD

Left at the Queen's house during the King's illness in March, 1801.

"Captain Blake of the Grenadiers, (George 1st.), was in the regiment of Colonel Murray at the
battle of Preston Pans, in the year 1745. He was left among the dead in the field of action,
with no less than eleven wounds, one so capital as to carry away three inches of his skull.
Has been preserved fifty-six years to relate the event, and enabled by gracious protection,
to make his personal inquiry after his majesty."

       *       *       *       *       *

MARGARET NICHOLSON.

The following is the original, epistle of this famous lunatic to the matron of Bedlam; No other
proof is necessary of her insanity:--

Madam,--I've recollected perhaps 'tis necessary to acquaint you upon what account I continue
here yet, maim, after making you privy to my great concerns, madam I only wait for alteration
of the globe which belongs to this house, maim and if the time is almost expired I wish to
know it maim. Tho' I am not unhealthy, yet I am very weak, know maim therefore I hope it won't
be long maim.

I am, madam, your most obedient,

Wednesday. M. NICHOLSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

LADY ARCHER, Formerly Miss West, lived to a good age--a proof that cosmetics are not so fatal
as has been supposed. Nature had given her a fine aquiline nose, like, the princesses of the
house of Austria, and she did not fail to give herself a complexion. She resembled a fine old
wainscotted painting with the face and features shining through a thick incrustation of copal
varnish.

Her ladyship was for many years the wonder of the fashionable world, envied by all the ladies
that frequented the court. She had a splendid house in Portland-place, with et caetera equal
in brilliancy and beauty to, or rather surpassing those of any of her contemporaries. Magnificent
appendages were a sort of scenery. She gloried in milk-white horses to her carriage--the coachman
and footman in grand shewy liveries--the carriage lined with a silk calculated to exhibit the
complexion, &c. &c.

I recollect, however, to have seen the late Mrs. Robinson go far beyond all this in the rich
exuberance of her genius; a yellow lining to her landau, with a black footman, to contrast
with her beautiful countenance and fascinating figure, and thus render both more lovely. Lady
Archer's house at Barnes Elms Terrace, had an elegance of ornaments and drapery to strike the
senses, and yet powerfully addressed to the imagination. She could give an insinuating interest
to the scenes about her; which other eyes were viewing. Her kitchen garden and pleasure ground
of five acres--the Thames running in front as if appertaining to the grounds--the apartments
most tastefully decorated in the Chinese style--a fine conservatory opening, into the principal
apartment with grapes, slow peaches, &c. at the end a magnificent sofa, with a superb curtain
all displayed with a peculiar grace and to the greatest advantage. Much praise was due to her
arrangement of green and hot-house plants, the appellations of which she was well acquainted
with, as also everything relating to their history.--from the Papers of the late Alexander
Stephens, Esq.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO SUBSCRIBERS.

Several of our early Numbers (which were unavoidably for sometime out of print), having been
recently reprinted, we suggest to our Subscribers the present opportunity of Completing their
Sets. Although public patronage has long kept us in countenance, it does not enable us to keep
all our Numbers constantly in print.

The Editor of "THE MIRROR" has in the press, ARCANA OF SCIENCE AND ART, FOR 1828:

Being the popular Discoveries and Improvements of the past Year, in Antiquities Architecture,
Astronomy, Botany, Chemistry, Fine Arts, Geography, Geology, Mechanical Science, Medicine,
Meteorology, Mineralogy, Natural Philosophy, Rural Economy, Statistics, Useful Arts, Zoology. &c.

Abridged from the Transactions of Public Societies, and other Scientific Journals, English
and Foreign, in a closely-printed volume.