I saw another woman laugh with a face that had no gleam of laughter anywhere--a face of pathetic
and resigned grief.

My experiences convinced me that the actor must imagine first and observe afterwards. It is
no good observing life and bringing the result to the stage without selection, without a definite
idea. The idea must come first, the realism afterwards.

Perhaps because I was nervous and irritable about my own part from insufficient rehearsal,
perhaps because his responsibility as lessee weighed upon him, Henry Irving's Hamlet on the
first night at the Lyceum seemed to me less wonderful than it had been at Birmingham. At rehearsals
he had been the perfection of grace. On the night itself, he dragged his leg and seemed stiff
from self-consciousness. He asked me later on if I thought the ill-natured criticism of his
walk was in any way justified, and if he really said "Gud" for "God," and the rest of it. I
said straight out that he did say his vowels in a peculiar way, and that he did drag his leg.

I begged him to give up that dreadful, paralyzing waiting at the side for his cue, and after
a time he took my advice. He was never obstinate in such matters. His one object was to find
out, to test suggestion, and follow it if it stood his test.

He was very diplomatic when he meant to have his own way. He never blustered or enforced or
threatened. My first acquaintance with this side of him was made over my dresser for Ophelia.
He had heard that I intended to wear black in the mad scene, and he intended me to wear white.
When he first mentioned the subject, I had no idea that there would be any opposition. He spoke
of my dresses, and I told him that as I was very anxious not to be worried about them at the
last minute, they had been got on with early and were now finished.

"Finished! That's very interesting! Very interesting. And what--er--what colors are they?"

"In the first scene I wear a pinkish dress. It's all rose-colored with her. Her father and
brother love her. The Prince loves her--and so she wears pink."

"Pink," repeated Henry thoughtfully.

"In the nunnery scene I have a pale, gold, amber dress--the most beautiful color. The material
is a church brocade. It will 'tone down' the color of my hair. In the last scene I wear a transparent,
black dress."

Henry did not wag an eyelid.

"I see. In mourning for her father."

"No, not exactly that. I think red was the mourning color of the period. But black seems to
me right--like the character, like the situation."

"Would you put the dresses on?" said Henry gravely.

At that minute Walter Lacy came up, that very Walter Lacy who had been with Charles Kean when
I was a child, and who now acted as adviser to Henry Irving in his Shakespearean productions.

"Ah, here's Lacy. Would you mind, Miss Terry, telling Mr. Lacy what you are going to wear?"

Rather surprised, but still unsuspecting, I told Lacy all over again. Pink in the first scene,
yellow in the second, black--

You should have seen Lacy's face at the word "black." He was going to burst out, but Henry
stopped him. He was more diplomatic than that!

"They generally wear white, don't they?"

"I believe so," I answered, "but black is more interesting."

"I should have thought you would look much better in white."

"Oh, no!" I said.

And then they dropped the subject for that day. It was clever of him!

The next day Lacy came up to me:

"You didn't really mean that you are going to wear black in the mad scene?"

"Yes, I did. Why not?"

"Why not! My God! Madam, there must be only one black figure in this play, and that's Hamlet!"

I did feel a fool. What a blundering donkey I had been not to see it before! I was very thrifty
in those days, and the thought of having been the cause of needless expense worried me. So
instead of the crêpe de Chine and miniver, which had been used for the black dress, I had for
the white dress Bolton sheeting and rabbit, and I believe it looked better.

The incident, whether Henry was right or not, led me to see that, although I knew more of art
and archaeology in dress than he did, he had a finer sense of what was right for the scene.
After this he always consulted me about the costumes, but if he said: "I want such and such
a scene to be kept dark and mysterious," I knew better than to try and introduce pale-colored
dresses into it.

Henry always had a fondness for "the old actor," and would engage him in preference to the
tyro any day. "I can trust them," he explained briefly.

In the cast of "Hamlet" Mr. Forrester, Mr. Chippendale, and Tom Mead worthily repaid the trust.
Mead, in spite of a terrible excellence in "Meadisms"--he substituted the most excruciatingly
funny words for Shakespeare's when his memory of the text failed--was a remarkable actor. His
voice as the Ghost was beautiful, and his appearance splendid. With his deep-set eyes, hawklike
nose, and clear brow, he reminded me of the Rameses head in the British Museum.

We had young men in the cast, too. There was one very studious youth who could never be caught
loafing. He was always reading, or busy in the greenroom studying by turns the pictures of
past actor-humanity with which the walls were peopled, or the present realities of actors who
came in and out of the room. Although he was so much younger then, Mr. Pinero looked much as
he does now. He played Rosencrantz very neatly. Consummate care, precision, and brains characterized
his work as an actor always, but his chief ambition lay another way. Rosencrantz and the rest
were his school of stage-craft.

Kyrle Bellew, the Osric of the production, was another man of the future, though we did not
know it. He was very handsome, a tremendous lady-killer! He wore his hair rather long, had
a graceful figure, and a good voice, as became the son of a preacher who had the reputation
of saying the Lord's Prayer so dramatically that his congregation sobbed.

Frank Cooper, a descendant of the Kembles, another actor who has risen to eminence since, played
Laertes. It was he who first led me onto the Lyceum stage. Twenty years later he became my
leading man on the first tour I took independently of Henry Irving since my tours with my husband,
Charles Kelly.

VIII

WORK AT THE LYCEUM

When I am asked what I remember about the first ten years at the Lyceum, I can answer in one
word: Work. I was hardly ever out of the theater. What with acting, rehearsing, and studying--twenty-five
reference books were a "simple coming-in" for one part--I sometimes thought I should go blind
and mad. It was not only for my parts at the Lyceum that I had to rehearse. From August to
October I was still touring in the provinces on my own account. My brother George acted as
my business manager. His enthusiasm was not greater than his loyalty and industry. When we
were playing in small towns he used to rush into my dressing-room after the curtain was up
and say excitedly:

"We've got twenty-five more people in our gallery than the Blank Theater opposite!"

Although he was very delicate, he worked for me like a slave. When my tours with Mr. Kelly
ended in 1880 and I promised Henry Irving that in future I would go to the provincial towns
with him, my brother was given a position at the Lyceum, where, I fear, his scrupulous and
uncompromising honesty often got him into trouble. "Perks," as they are called in domestic
service, are one of the heaviest additions to a manager's working expenses, and George tried
to fight the system. He hurt no one so much as himself.

One of my productions in the provinces was an English version of "Frou-Frou," made for me by
my dear friend Mrs. Comyns Carr, who for many years designed the dresses that I wore in different
Lyceum plays. "Butterfly," as "Frou-Frou" was called when it was produced in English, went
well; indeed, the Scots of Edinburgh received it with overwhelming favor, and it served my
purpose at the time, but when I saw Sarah Bernhardt play the part I wondered that I had had
the presumption to meddle with it. It was not a case of my having a different view of the character
and playing it according to my imagination, as it was, for instance, when Duse played "La Dame
aux Camélias," and gave a performance that one could not say was inferior to Bernhardt's, although
it was so utterly different. No people in their right senses could have accepted my "Frou-Frou"
instead of Sarah's. What I lacked technically in it was pace.

Of course, it is partly the language. English cannot be phrased as rapidly as French. But I
have heard foreign actors, playing in the English tongue, show us this rapidity, this warmth,
this fury--call it what you will--and have just wondered why we are, most of us, so deficient
in it.

Fechter had it, so had Edwin Forrest. When strongly moved, their passions and their fervor
made them swift. The more Henry Irving felt, the more deliberate he became. I said to him once:
"You seem to be hampered in the vehemence of passion." "I am," he answered. This is what crippled
his Othello, and made his scene with Tubal in "The Merchant of Venice" the least successful
to him. What it was to the audience is another matter. But he had to take refuge in speechless
rage when he would have liked to pour out his words like a torrent.

In the company which Charles Kelly and I took round the provinces in 1880 were Henry Kemble
and Charles Brookfield. Young Brookfield was just beginning life as an actor, and he was so
brilliantly funny off the stage that he was always a little disappointing on it. My old manageress,
Mrs. Wigan, first brought him to my notice, writing in a charming little note that she knew
him "to have a power of personation very rare in an unpracticed actor," and that if we could
give him varied practice, she would feel it a courtesy to her.

I had reason to admire Mr. Brookfield's "powers of personation" when I was acting at Buxton.
He and Kemble had no parts in one of our plays, so they amused themselves during their "off"
night by hiring bath-chairs and pretending to be paralytics! We were acting in a hall, and
the most infirm of the invalids visiting the place to take the waters were wheeled in at the
back, and up the center aisle. In the middle of a very pathetic scene I caught sight of Kemble
and Brookfield in their bath-chairs, and could not speak for several minutes.

Mr. Brookfield does not tell this little story in his "Random Reminiscences." It is about the
only one that he has left out! To my mind he is the prince of storytellers. All the cleverness
that he should have put into his acting and his play-writing (of which since those early days
he has done a great deal) he seems to have put into his life. I remember him more clearly as
a delightful companion than an actor, and he won my heart at once by his kindness to my little
daughter Edy, who accompanied me on this tour. He has too great a sense of humor to resent
my inadequate recollection of him. Did he not in his own book quote gleefully from an obituary
notice published on a false report of his death, the summary: "Never a great actor, he was
invaluable in small parts. But after all it is at his club that he will be most missed!"

In the last act of "Butterfly," as we called the English version of "Frou-Frou," where the
poor woman is dying, her husband shows her a locket with a picture of her child in it. Night
after night we used a "property" locket, but on my birthday, when we happened to be playing
the piece, Charles Kelly bought a silver locket of Indian work and put inside it two little
colored photographs of my children, Edy and Teddy, and gave it to me on the stage instead of
the "property" one. When I opened it, I burst into very real tears! I have often wondered since
if the audience that night knew that they were seeing real instead of assumed emotion! Probably
the difference did not tell at all.

At Leeds we produced "Much Ado About Nothing." I never played Beatrice as well again. When
I began to "take soundings" from life for my idea of her, I found in my friend Anne Codrington
(now Lady Winchilsea) what I wanted. There was before me a Beatrice--as fine a lady as ever
lived, a great-hearted woman--beautiful, accomplished, merry, tender. When Nan Codrington came
into a room it was as if the sun came out. She was the daughter of an admiral, and always tried
to make her room look as like a cabin as she could. "An excellent musician," as Benedick hints
Beatrice was, Nan composed the little song that I sang at the Lyceum in "The Cup," and very
good it was, too.

When Henry Irving put on "Much Ado About Nothing"--a play which he may be said to have done
for me, as he never really liked the part of Benedick--I was not the same Beatrice at all.
A great actor can do nothing badly, and there was so very much to admire in Henry Irving's
Benedick. But he gave me little help. Beatrice must be swift, swift, swift! Owing to Henry's
rather finicking, deliberate method as Benedick, I could never put the right pace into my part.
I was also feeling unhappy about it, because I had been compelled to give way about a traditional
"gag" in the church scene, with which we ended the fourth act. In my own production we had
scorned this gag, and let the curtain come down on Benedick's line: "Go, comfort your cousin;
I must say she is dead, and so farewell." When I was told that we were to descend to the buffoonery
of:

    Beatrice: Benedick, kill him--kill him if you can.

    Benedick: As sure as I'm alive, I will!

I protested, and implored Henry not to do it. He said that it was necessary: otherwise the
"curtain" would be received in dead silence. I assured him that we had often had seven and
eight calls without it. I used every argument, artistic and otherwise. Henry, according to
his custom, was gentle, would not discuss it much, but remained obdurate. After holding out
for a week, I gave in. "It's my duty to obey your orders, and do it," I said, "but I do it
under protest." Then I burst into tears. It was really for his sake just as much as for mine.
I thought it must bring such disgrace on him! Looking back on the incident, I find that the
most humorous thing in connection with it was that the critics, never reluctant to accuse Henry
of "monkeying" with Shakespeare if they could find cause, never noticed the gag at all!

Such disagreements occurred very seldom. In "The Merchant of Venice" I found that Henry Irving's
Shylock necessitated an entire revision of my conception of Portia, especially in the trial
scene, but here there was no point of honor involved. I had considered, and still am of the
same mind, that Portia in the trial scene ought to be very quiet. I saw an extraordinary effect
in this quietness. But as Henry's Shylock was quiet, I had to give it up. His heroic saint
was splendid, but it wasn't good for Portia.

Of course, there were always injudicious friends to say that I had not "chances" enough at
the Lyceum. Even my father said to me after "Othello":

"We must have no more of these Ophelias and Desdemonas!"

"Father!" I cried out, really shocked.

"They're second fiddle parts--not the parts for you, Duchess."

"Father!" I gasped out again, for really I thought Ophelia a pretty good part, and was delighted
at my success with it.

But granting these were "second fiddle" parts, I want to make quite clear that I had my turn
of "first fiddle" ones. "Romeo and Juliet," "Much Ado About Nothing," "Olivia," and "The Cup"
all gave me finer opportunities than they gave Henry. In "The Merchant of Venice" and "Charles
I." they were at least equal to his.

I have sometimes wondered what I should have accomplished without Henry Irving. I might have
had "bigger" parts, but it doesn't follow that they would have been better ones, and if they
had been written by contemporary dramatists my success would have been less durable. "No actor
or actress who doesn't play in the 'classics'--in Shakespeare or old comedy--will be heard
of long," was one of Henry Irving's sayings, by the way, and he was right.

It was a long time before we had much talk with each other. In the "Hamlet" days, Henry Irving's
melancholy was appalling. I remember feeling as if I had laughed in church when he came to
the foot of the stairs leading to my dressing-room, and caught me sliding down the banisters!
He smiled at me, but didn't seem able to get over it.

"Lacy," he said some days later, "what do you think! I found her the other day sliding down
the banisters!"

Some one says--I think it is Keats, in a letter--that the poet lives not in one, but in a thousand
worlds, and the actor has not one, but a hundred natures. What was the real Henry Irving? I
used to speculate!

His religious upbringing always left its mark on him, though no one could be more "raffish"
and mischievous than he when entertaining friends at supper in the Beefsteak Room, or chaffing
his valued adjutants, Bram Stoker and Loveday. H.J. Loveday, our dear stage manager, was, I
think, as absolutely devoted to Henry as anyone except his fox-terrier, Fussie. Loveday's loyalty
made him agree with everything that Henry said, however preposterous, and didn't Henry trade
on it sometimes!

Once while he was talking to me, when he was making up, he absently took a white lily out of
a bowl on the table and began to stripe and dot the petals with the stick of grease-paint in
his hand. He pulled off one or two of the petals, and held it out to me.

"Pretty flower, isn't it?"

"Oh, don't be ridiculous, Henry!" I said.

"You wait!" he said mischievously. "We'll show it to Loveday."

Loveday was sent for on some business connected with the evening's performance. Henry held
out the flower obtrusively, but Loveday wouldn't notice it.

"Pretty, isn't it?" said Henry carelessly.

"Very," said Loveday. "I always like those lilies. A friend of mine has his garden full of
them, and he says they're not so difficult to grow if only you give 'em enough water."

Henry's delight at having "taken in" Loveday was childish. But sometimes I think Loveday must
have seen through these innocent jokes, only he wouldn't have spoiled "the Guv'nor's" bit of
fun for the world.

When Henry first met him he was conducting an orchestra. I forget the precise details, but
I know that he gave up this position to follow Henry, that he was with him during the Bateman
régime at the Lyceum, and that when the Lyceum became a thing of the past, he still kept the
post of stage manager. He was literally "faithful unto death," for it was only at Henry's death
that his service ended.

Bram Stoker, whose recently published "Reminiscences of Irving" have told, as well as it ever
can be told, the history of the Lyceum Theater under Irving's direction, was as good a servant
in the front of the theater as Loveday was on the stage. Like a true Irishman, he has given
me some lovely blarney in his book. He has also told all the stories that I might have told,
and described every one connected with the Lyceum except himself. I can fill that deficiency
to a certain extent by saying that he is one of the most kind and tender-hearted of men. He
filled a difficult position with great tact, and was not so universally abused as most business
managers, because he was always straight with the company, and never took a mean advantage of them.

Stoker and Loveday were daily, nay, hourly, associated for many years with Henry Irving; but,
after all, did they or any one else really know him? And what was Henry Irving's attitude.
I believe myself that he never wholly trusted his friends, and never admitted them to his intimacy,
although they thought he did, which was the same thing to them.

From his childhood up, Henry was lonely. His chief companions in youth were the Bible and Shakespeare.
He used to study "Hamlet" in the Cornish fields, when he was sent out by his aunt, Mrs. Penberthy,
to call in the cows. One day, when he was in one of the deep, narrow lanes common in that part
of England, he looked up and saw the face of a sweet little lamb gazing at him from the top
of the bank. The symbol of the lamb in the Bible had always attracted him, and his heart went
out to the dear little creature. With some difficulty he scrambled up the bank, slipping often
in the damp, red earth, threw his arms round the lamb's neck and kissed it.

The lamb bit him!

Did this set-back in early childhood influence him? I wonder! He had another such set-back
when he first went on the stage, and for some six weeks in Dublin was subjected every night
to groans, hoots, hisses, and cat-calls from audiences who resented him because he had taken
the place of a dismissed favorite. In such a situation an actor is not likely to take stock
of reasons. Henry Irving only knew that the Dublin people made him the object of violent personal
antipathy. "I played my parts not badly for me," he said simply, "in spite of the howls of
execration with which I was received."

The bitterness of this Dublin episode was never quite forgotten. It colored Henry Irving's
attitude towards the public. When he made his humble little speeches of thanks to them before
the curtain, there was always a touch of pride in the humility. Perhaps he would not have received
adulation in quite the same dignified way if he had never known what it was to wear the martyr's
"shirt of flame."

This is the worst of my trying to give a consecutive narrative of my first years at the Lyceum.
Henry Irving looms across them, reducing all events, all feelings, all that happened, and all
that was suggested, to pigmy size.

Let me speak generally of his method of procedure in producing a play.

First he studied it for three months himself, and nothing in that play would escape him. Some
one once asked him a question about "Titus Andronicus." "God bless my soul!" he said. "I never
read it, so how should I know!" The Shakespearean scholar who had questioned him was a little
shocked--a fact which Henry Irving, the closest observer of men, did not fail to notice.

"When I am going to do 'Titus Andronicus,' or any other play," he said to me afterwards, "I
shall know more about it than A---- or any other student."

There was no conceit in this. It was just a statement of fact. And it may not have been an
admirable quality of Henry Irving's, but all his life he only took an interest in the things
which concerned the work that he had in hand. When there was a question of his playing Napoleon,
his room at Grafton Street was filled with Napoleonic literature. Busts of Napoleon, pictures
of Napoleon, relics of Napoleon were everywhere. Then, when another play was being prepared,
the busts, however fine, would probably go down to the cellar. It was not Napoleon who interested
Henry Irving, but Napoleon for his purpose--two very different things.

His concentration during his three months' study of the play which he had in view was marvelous.
When, at the end of the three-months, he called the first rehearsal, he read the play exactly
as it was going to be done on the first night. He knew exactly by that time what he personally
was going to do on the first night, and the company did well to notice how he read his own
part, for never again until the first night, though he rehearsed with them, would he show his
conception so fully and completely.

These readings, which took place sometimes in the greenroom or Beefsteak Room at the Lyceum,
sometimes at his house in Grafton Street, were wonderful. Never were the names of the characters
said by the reader, but never was there the slightest doubt as to which was speaking. Henry
Irving swiftly, surely, acted every part in the piece as he read. While he read, he made notes
as to the position of the characters and the order of the crowds and processions. At the end
of the first reading he gave out the parts.

The next day there was the "comparing" of the parts. It generally took place on the stage,
and we sat down for it. Each person took his own character, and took up the cues to make sure
that no blunder had been made in writing them out. Parts at the Lyceum were written, or printed,
not typed.

These first two rehearsals--the one devoted to the reading of the play, and the other to the
comparing of the parts, were generally arranged for Thursday and Friday. Then there was two
days' grace. On Monday came the first stand-up rehearsal on the stage.

We then did one act straight through, and, after that, straight through again, even if it took
all day. There was no luncheon interval. People took a bite when they could, or went without.
Henry himself generally went without. The second day exactly the same method was pursued with
the second act. All the time Henry gave the stage his personal direction, gave it keenly, and
gave it whole. He was the sole superintendent of his rehearsals, with Mr. Loveday as his working
assistant, and Mr. Allen as his prompter. This despotism meant much less wasted time than when
actor-manager, "producer," literary adviser, stage manager, and any one who likes to offer
a suggestion are all competing in giving orders and advice to a company.

Henry Irving never spent much time on the women in the company, except in regard to position.
Sometimes he would ask me to suggest things to them, to do for them what he did for the men.
The men were as much like him when they tried to carry out his instructions as brass is like
gold; but he never grew weary of "coaching" them, down to the most minute detail. Once during
the rehearsals of "Hamlet" I saw him growing more and more fatigued with his efforts to get
the actors who opened the play to perceive his meaning. He wanted the first voice to ring out
like a pistol shot.

"Who's there?"

"Do give it up," I said. "It's no better!"

"Yes, it's a little better," he answered quietly, "and so it's worth doing."

From the first the scenery or substitute scenery was put upon the stage for rehearsal, and
the properties or substitute properties were to hand.

After each act had been gone through twice each day, it came to half an act once in a whole
day, because of the development of detail. There was no detail too small for Henry Irving's
notice. He never missed anything that was cumulative--that would contribute something to the
whole effect.

The messenger who came in to announce something always needed a great deal of rehearsal. There
were processions, and half processions, quiet bits when no word was spoken. There was timing.
Nothing was left to chance.

In the master carpenter, Arnott, we had a splendid man. He inspired confidence at once through
his strong, able personality, and, as time went on, deserved it through all the knowledge he
acquired and through his excellence in never making a difficulty.

"You shall have it," was no bluff from Arnott. You did "have it."

We could not find precisely the right material for one of my dresses in "The Cup." At last,
poking about myself in quest of it, I came across the very thing at Liberty's--a saffron silk
with a design woven into it by hand with many-colored threads and little jewels. I brought
a yard to rehearsal. It was declared perfect, but I declared the price prohibitive.

"It's twelve guineas a yard, and I shall want yards and yards!"

In these days I am afraid they would not only put such material on to the leading lady, but
on to the supers too! At the Lyceum wanton extravagance was unknown.

"Where can I get anything at all like it?"

"You leave it to me," said Arnott. "I'll get it for you. That'll be all right.

"But, Arnott, it's a hand-woven Indian material. How can you get it?"

"You leave it to me," Arnott repeated in his slow, quiet, confident way. "Do you mind letting
me have this yard as a pattern?"

He went off with it, and before the dress rehearsal had produced about twenty yards of silk,
which on the stage looked better than the twelve-guinea original.

"There's plenty more if you want it," he said dryly.

He had had some raw silk dyed the exact saffron. He had had two blocks made, one red and the
other black, and the design had been printed, and a few cheap spangles had been added to replace
the real jewels. My toga looked beautiful.

This was but one of the many emergencies to which Arnott rose with talent and promptitude.

With the staff of the theater he was a bit of a bully--one of those men not easily roused,
but being vexed, "nasty in the extreme!" As a craftsman he had wonderful taste, and could copy
antique furniture so that one could not tell the copy from the original.

The great aim at the Lyceum was to get everything "rotten perfect," as the theatrical slang
has it, before the dress rehearsal. Father's test of being rotten perfect was not a bad one.
"If you can get out of bed in the middle of the night and do your part, you're perfect. If
you can't, you don't really know it!"

Henry Irving applied some such test to every one concerned in the production. I cannot remember
any play at the Lyceum which did not begin punctually and end at the advertised time, except
"Olivia," when some unwise changes in the last act led to delay.

He never hesitated to discard scenery if it did not suit his purpose. There was enough scenery
rejected in "Faust" to have furnished three productions, and what was finally used for the
famous Brocken scene cost next to nothing.

Even the best scene-painters sometimes think more of their pictures than of scenic effects.
Henry would never accept anything that was not right theatrically as well as pictorially beautiful.
His instinct in this was unerring and incomparable.

I remember that at one scene-rehearsal every one was fatuously pleased with the scenery. Henry
sat in the stalls talking about everything but the scenery. It was hard to tell what he thought.

"Well, are you ready?" he asked at last.

"Yes, sir."

"My God! Is that what you think I am going to give the public?"

Never shall I forget the astonishment of stage manager, scene-painter, and staff! It was never
safe to indulge in too much self-satisfaction beforehand with Henry. He was always liable to
drop such bombs!

He believed very much in "front" scenes, seeing how necessary they were to the swift progress
of Shakespeare's diverging plots. These cloths were sometimes so wonderfully painted and lighted
that they constituted scenes of remarkable beauty. The best of all were the Apothecary scene
in "Romeo and Juliet" and the exterior of Aufidius's house in "Coriolanus."

We never had electricity installed at the Lyceum until Daly took the theater. When I saw the
effect on the faces of the electric footlights, I entreated Henry to have the gas restored,
and he did. We used gas footlights and gas limes there until we left the theater for good in 1902.

To this I attribute much of the beauty of our lighting. I say "our" because this was a branch
of Henry's work in which I was always his chief helper. Until electricity has been greatly
improved and developed, it can never be to the stage what gas was. The thick softness of gaslight,
with the lovely specks and motes in it, so like natural light, gave illusion to many a scene
which is now revealed in all its naked trashiness by electricity.

The artificial is always noticed and recognized as art by the superficial critic. I think this
is what made some people think Irving was at his best in such parts as Louis XI, Dubosc, and
Richard III. He could have played Louis XI three times a day "on his head," as the saying is.
In "The Lyons Mail," Dubosc the wicked man was easy enough--strange that the unprofessional
looker-on always admires the actor's art when it is employed on easy things!--but Lesurques,
the good man in the same play ("The Lyons Mail"), was difficult. Any actor, skillful in the
tricks of the business, can play the drunkard; but to play a good man sincerely, as he did
here, to show that double thing, the look of guilt which an innocent man wears when accused
of crime, requires great acting, for "the look" is the outward and visible sign of the inward
and spiritual emotion--and this delicate emotion can only be perfectly expressed when the actor's
heart and mind and soul and skill are in absolute accord.

In dual parts Irving depended little on make-up. Make-up was, indeed, always his servant, not
his master. He knew its uselessness when not informed by the spirit. "The letter" (and in characterization
grease-paint is the letter) "killeth--the spirit giveth life." His Lesurques was different
from his Dubosc because of the way he held his shoulders, because of his expression. He always
took a deep interest in crime (an interest which his sons have inherited), and often went to
the police-court to study the faces of the accused. He told me that the innocent man generally
looked guilty and hesitated when asked a question, but that the round, wide-open eyes corrected
the bad impression. The result of this careful watching was seen in his expression as Lesurques.
He opened his eyes wide. As Dubosc he kept them half closed.

Our plays from 1878 to 1887 were "Hamlet," "The Lady of Lyons," "Eugene Aram," "Charles I.,"
"The Merchant of Venice," "Iolanthe," "The Cup," "The Belle's Stratagem," "Othello," "Romeo
and Juliet," "Much Ado About Nothing," "Twelfth Night," "Olivia," "Faust," "Raising the Wind,"
and "The Amber Heart." I give this list to keep myself straight. My mental division of the
years at the Lyceum is before "Macbeth," and after. I divide it up like this, perhaps, because
"Macbeth" was the most important of all our productions, if I judge it by the amount of preparation
and thought that it cost us and by the discussion which it provoked.

Of the characters played by Henry Irving in the plays of the first division--before "Macbeth,"
that is to say--I think every one knows that I considered Hamlet to be his greatest triumph.
Sometimes I think that was so because it was the only part that was big enough for him. It
was more difficult, and he had more scope in it than in any other. If there had been a finer
part than Hamlet, that particular part would have been his finest.

When one praises an actor in this way, one is always open to accusations of prejudice, hyperbole,
uncritical gush, unreasoned eulogy, and the rest. Must a careful and deliberate opinion always
deny a great man genius? If so, no careful and deliberate opinions from me!

I have no doubt in the world of Irving's genius--no doubt that he is with David Garrick and
Edmund Kean, rather than with other actors of great talents and great achievements--actors
who rightly won high opinions from the multitude of their day, but who have not left behind
them an impression of that inexplicable thing which we call genius.

Since my great comrade died I have read many biographies of him, and nearly all of them denied
what I assert. "Now, who shall arbitrate?" I find no contradiction of my testimony in the fact
that he was not appreciated for a long time, that some found him like olives, an acquired taste,
that others mocked and derided him.

My father, who worshiped Macready, put Irving above him because of Irving's originality. The
old school were not usually so generous. Fanny Kemble thought it necessary to write as follows
of one who had had his share of misfortune and failure before he came into his kingdom and
made her jealous, I suppose, for the dead kings among her kindred:

     "I have seen some of the accounts and critics of Mr. Irving's
     acting, and rather elaborate ones of his Hamlet, which, however,
     give me no very distinct idea of his performance, and a very hazy
     one indeed of the part itself as seen from the point of view of his
     critics. Edward Fitzgerald wrote me word that he looked like my
     people, and sent me a photograph to prove it, which I thought much
     more like Young than my father or uncle. I have not seen a play of
     Shakespeare's acted I do not know when. I think I should find such
     an exhibition extremely curious as well as entertaining."

Now, shall I put on record what Henry Irving thought of Fanny Kemble! If there is a touch of
malice in my doing so, surely the passage that I have quoted gives me leave.

Having lived with Hamlet nearly all his life, studied the part when he was a clerk, dreamed
of a day when he might play it, the young Henry Irving saw that Mrs. Butler, the famous Fanny
Kemble, was going to give a reading of the play. His heart throbbed high with anticipation,
for in those days TRADITION was everything--the name of Kemble a beacon and a star.

The studious young clerk went to the reading.

An attendant came on to the platform, first, and made trivial and apparently unnecessary alterations
in the position of the reading desk. A glass of water and a book were placed on it.

After a portentous wait, on swept a lady with an extraordinary flashing eye, a masculine and
muscular outside. Pounding the book with terrific energy, as if she wished to knock the stuffing
out of it, she announced in thrilling tones:

     "'HAM--A--LETTE.'

     By

     Will--y--am Shak--es--peare."

"I suppose this is all right," thought the young clerk, a little dismayed at the fierce and
sectional enunciation.

Then the reader came to Act I, Sc. 2, which the old actor (to leave the Kemble reading for
a minute), with but a hazy notion of the text, used to begin:

    "Although of Hamlet, our dear brother's death,
    The memory be--memory be--(What is the color?) green"....

When Fanny Kemble came to this scene the future Hamlet began to listen more intently.

     Gertrude: Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Ham--a--lette.

     Hamlet: I shall in all respects obey you, madam (obviously with
     a fiery flashing eye of hate upon the King).

When he heard this and more like it, Henry Irving exercised his independence of opinion and
refused to accept Fanny Kemble's view of the gentle, melancholy, and well-bred Prince of Denmark.

He was a stickler for tradition, and always studied it, followed it, sometimes to his own detriment,
but he was not influenced by the Kemble Hamlet, except that for some time he wore the absurd
John Philip feather, which he would have been much better without!

Let me pray that I, representing the old school, may never look on the new school with the
patronizing airs of "Old Fitz"[1] and Fanny Kemble. I wish that I could see the new school
of acting in Shakespeare. Shakespeare must be kept up, or we shall become a third-rate nation!

[Footnote 1: Edward FitzGerald.]

Henry told me this story of Fanny Kemble's reading without a spark of ill-nature, but with
many a gleam of humor.

I have already said that I never could cope with Pauline Deschapelles, and why Henry wanted
to play Melnotte was a mystery. Claude Melnotte after Hamlet! Oddly enough, Henry was always
attracted by fustian. He simply reveled in the big speeches. The play was beautifully staged;
the garden scene alone probably cost as much as the whole of "Hamlet." The march past the window
of the apparently unending army--that good old trick which sends the supers flying round the
back-cloth to cross the stage again and again--created a superb effect. The curtain used to
go up and down as often as we liked and chose to keep the army marching! The play ran some
time, I suppose because even at our worst the public found something in our acting to like.

As Ruth Meadowes I had very little to do, but what there was, was worth doing. The last act
of "Eugene Aram," like the last act of "Ravenswood," gave me opportunity. It was staged with
a great appreciation of grim and poetic effect. Henry always thought that the dark, overhanging
branch of the cedar was like the cruel outstretched hand of Fate. He called it the Fate Tree,
and used it in "Hamlet," in "Eugene Aram," and in "Romeo and Juliet."

In "Eugene Aram," the Fate Tree drooped low over the graves in the churchyard. On one of them
Henry used to be lying in a black cloak as the curtain went up on the last act. Not until a
moonbeam struck the dark mass did you see that it was a man.

He played all such parts well. Melancholy and the horrors had a peculiar fascination for him--especially
in these early days. But his recitation of the poem "Eugene Aram" was finer than anything in
the play--especially when he did it in a frock-coat. No one ever looked so well in a frock-coat!
He was always ready to recite it--used to do it after supper, anywhere. We had a talk about
it once, and I told him that it was too much for a room. No man was ever more willing to listen
to suggestion or less obstinate about taking advice. He immediately moderated his methods when
reciting in a room, making it all the less theatrical. The play was a good répertoire play,
and we did it later on in America with success. There the part of Houseman was played by Terriss,
who was quite splendid in it, and at Chicago my little boy Teddy made his second appearance
on any stage as Joey, a gardener's boy. He had, when still a mere baby, come on to the stage
at the Court in "Olivia," and this must be counted his first appearance, although the chroniclers,
ignoring both that and Joey in "Eugene Aram," say he never appeared at all until he played
an important part in "The Dead Heart."

It is because of Teddy that "Eugene Aram" is associated in my mind with one of the most beautiful
sights upon the stage that I ever saw in my life. He was about ten or eleven at the time, and
as he tied up the stage roses, his cheeks, untouched by rouge, put the reddest of them to shame!
He was so graceful and natural; he spoke his lines with ease, and smiled all over his face!
"A born actor!" I said, although Joey was my son. Whenever I think of him in that stage garden,
I weep for pride, and for sorrow, too, because before he was thirty my son had left the stage--he
who had it all in him. I have good reason to be proud of what he has done since, but I regret
the lost actor always.

Henry Irving could not at first keep away from melancholy pieces. Henrietta Maria was another
sad part for me--but I used to play it well, except when I cried too much in the last act.
The play had been one of the Bateman productions, and I had seen Miss Isabel Bateman as Henrietta
Maria and liked her, although I could not find it possible to follow her example and play the
part with a French accent! I constantly catch myself saying of Henry Irving, "That is by far
the best thing that he ever did." I could say it of some things in "Charles I."--of the way
he gave up his sword to Cromwell, of the way he came into the room in the last act and shut
the door behind him. It was not a man coming on to a stage to meet some one. It was a king
going to the scaffold, quietly, unobtrusively, and courageously. However often I played that
scene with him, I knew that when he first came on he was not aware of my presence nor of any
earthly presence: he seemed to be already in heaven.

Much has been said of his "make-up" as Charles I. Edwin Long painted him a triptych of Vandyck
heads, which he always had in his dressing-room, and which is now in my possession. He used
to come on to the stage looking precisely like the Vandyck portraits, but not because he had
been busy building up his face with wig-paste and similar atrocities. His make-up in this,
as in other parts, was the process of assisting subtly and surely the expression from within.
It was elastic, and never hampered him. It changed with the expression. As Charles, he was
assisted by Nature, who had given him the most beautiful Stuart hands, but his clothes most
actors would have consigned to the dust-bin! Before we had done with Charles I.--we played
it together for the last time in 1902--these clothes were really threadbare. Yet he looked
in them every inch a king.

His care of detail may be judged from the fact that in the last act his wig was not only grayer,
but had far less hair in it. I should hardly think it necessary to mention this if I had not
noticed how many actors seem to think that age may be procured by the simple expedient of dipping
their heads, covered with mats of flourishing hair, into a flour-barrel!

Unlike most stage kings, he never seemed to be assuming dignity. He was very, very simple.

Wills has been much blamed for making Cromwell out to be such a wretch--a mean blackguard,
not even a great bad man. But in plays the villain must not compete for sympathy with the hero,
or both fall to the ground! I think that Wills showed himself a true poet in his play, and
in the last act a great playwright. He gave us both wonderful opportunities, yet very few words
were spoken.

Some people thought me best in the camp scene in the third act, where I had even fewer lines
to speak. I was proud of it myself when I found that it had inspired Oscar Wilde to write me
this lovely sonnet:

    In the lone tent, waiting for victory,
    She stands with eyes marred by the mists of pain,
    Like some wan lily overdrenched with rain;
    The clamorous clang of arms, the ensanguined sky,
    War's ruin, and the wreck of chivalry
    To her proud soul no common fear can bring;
    Bravely she tarrieth for her Lord, the King,
    Her soul aflame with passionate ecstasy.
    O, hair of gold! O, crimson lips! O, face
    Made for the luring and the love of man!
    With thee I do forget the toil and stress,
    The loveless road that knows no resting place,
    Time's straitened pulse, the soul's dread weariness,
    My freedom, and my life republican!

That phrase "wan lily" represented perfectly what I had tried to convey, not only in this part
but in Ophelia. I hope I thanked Oscar enough at the time. Now he is dead, and I cannot thank
him any more.... I had so much bad poetry written to me that these lovely sonnets from a real
poet should have given me the greater pleasure. "He often has the poet's heart, who never felt
the poet's fire." There is more good heart and kind feeling in most of the verses written to
me than real poetry.

"One must discriminate," even if it sounds unkind. At the time that Whistler was having one
of his most undignified "rows" with a sitter over a portrait and wrangling over the price,
another artist was painting frescoes in a cathedral for nothing. "It is sad that it should
be so," a friend said to me, "but one must discriminate. The man haggling over the sixpence
is the great artist!"

How splendid it is that in time this is recognized. The immortal soul of the artist is in his
work, the transient and mortal one is in his conduct.

Another sonnet from Oscar Wilde--to Portia this time--is the first document that I find in
connection with "The Merchant," as the play was always called by the theater staff.

    "I marvel not Bassanio was so bold
    To peril all he had upon the lead,
    Or that proud Aragon bent low his head,
    Or that Morocco's fiery heart grew cold;
    For in that gorgeous dress of beaten gold,
    Which is more golden than the golden sun,
    No woman Veronese looked upon
    Was half so fair as thou whom I behold.
    Yet fairer when with wisdom as your shield
    The sober-suited lawyer's gown you donned,
    And would not let the laws of Venice yield
    Antonio's heart to that accursed Jew--
    O, Portia! take my heart; it is thy due:
    I think I will not quarrel with the Bond."

Henry Irving's Shylock dress was designed by Sir John Gilbert. It was never replaced, and only
once cleaned by Henry's dresser and valet, Walter Collinson. Walter, I think, replaced "Doody,"
Henry's first dresser at the Lyceum, during the run of "The Merchant of Venice." Walter was
a wig-maker by trade--assistant to Clarkson the elder. It was Doody who, on being asked his
opinion of a production, said that it was fine--"not a join[1] to be seen anywhere!" It was
Walter who was asked by Henry to say which he thought his master's best part. Walter could
not be "drawn" for a long time. At last he said Macbeth.

[Footnote 1: A "join" in theatrical wig-makers' parlance is the point where the front-piece
of the wig ends and the actor's forehead begins.]

This pleased Henry immensely, for, as I hope to show later on, he fancied himself in Macbeth
more than in any other part.

"It is generally conceded to be Hamlet," said Henry.

"Oh, no, sir," said Walter, "Macbeth. You sweat twice as much in that."

In appearance Walter was very like Shakespeare's bust in Stratford Church. He was a most faithful
and devoted servant, and was the only person with Henry Irving when he died. Quiet in his ways,
discreet, gentle, and very quick, he was the ideal dresser.

The Lyceum production of "The Merchant of Venice" was not so strictly archaeological as the
Bancrofts' had been, but it was very gravely beautiful and effective. If less attention was
paid to details of costumes and scenery, the play itself was arranged and acted very attractively
and always went with a swing. To the end of my partnership with Henry Irving it was a safe
"draw" both in England and America. By this time I must have played Portia over a thousand
times. During the first run of it the severe attack made on my acting of the part in Blackwood's
Magazine is worth alluding to. The suggestion that I showed too much of a "coming-on" disposition
in the Casket Scene affected me for years, and made me self-conscious and uncomfortable. At
last I lived it down. Any suggestion of indelicacy in my treatment of a part always blighted
me. Mr. Dodgson (Lewis Carroll, of the immortal "Alice in Wonderland") once brought a little
girl to see me in "Faust." He wrote and told me that she had said (where Margaret begins to
undress): "Where is it going to stop?" and that perhaps in consideration of the fact that it
could affect a mere child disagreeably, I ought to alter my business!

I had known dear Mr. Dodgson for years and years. He was as fond of me as he could be of any
one over the age of ten, but I was furious. "I thought you only knew nice children," was all
the answer that I gave him. "It would have seemed to me awful for a child to see harm where
harm is; how much more when she sees it where harm is not."

But I felt ashamed and shy whenever I played that scene. It was the Casket Scene over again.

The unkind Blackwood article also blamed me for showing too plainly that Portia loves Bassanio
before he has actually won her. This seemed to me unjust, if only because Shakespeare makes
Portia say before Bassanio chooses the right casket:

     "One half of me is yours--the other half yours--All yours!"

Surely this suggests that she was not concealing her fondness like a Victorian maiden, and
that Bassanio had most surely won her love, though not yet the right to be her husband.

"There is a soul of goodness in things evil," and the criticism made me alter the setting of
the scene, and so contrive it that Portia was behind and out of sight of the men who made hazard
for her love.

Dr. Furnivall, a great Shakespearean scholar, was so kind as to write me the following letter
about Portia:

     "Being founder and director of the New Shakespeare Society, I
     venture to thank you most heartily for your most charming and
     admirable impersonation of our poet's Portia, which I witnessed
     to-night with a real delight. You have given me a new light on the
     character, and by your so pretty by-play in the Casket Scene have
     made bright in my memory for ever the spot which almost all critics
     have felt dull, and I hope to say this in a new edition of
     'Shakespeare.'"

(He did say it, in "The Leopold" edition.)

     "Again those touches of the wife's love in the advocate when
     Bassanio says he'd give up his wife for Antonio, and when you
     kissed your hand to him behind his back in the Ring bit--how pretty
     and natural they were! Your whole conception and acting of the
     character are so true to Shakespeare's lines that one longs he
     could be here to see you. A lady gracious and graceful, handsome,
     witty, loving and wise, you are his Portia to the life."

That's the best of Shakespeare, I say. His characters can be interpreted in at least eight
different ways, and of each way some one will say: "That is Shakespeare!" The German actress
plays Portia as a low comedy part. She wears an eighteenth-century law wig, horn spectacles,
a cravat (this last anachronism is not confined to Germans), and often a mustache! There is
something to be said for it all, though I should not like to play the part that way myself.

Lady Pollock, who first brought me to Henry Irving's notice as a possible leading lady, thought
my Portia better at the Lyceum than it had been at the Prince of Wales's.

     "Thanks, my dear Valentine and enchanting Portia," she writes to me
     in response to a photograph that I had sent her, "but the
     photographers don't see you as you are, and have not the poetry in
     them to do you justice.... You were especially admirable in the
     Casket Scene. You kept your by-play quieter, and it gained in
     effect from the addition of repose--and I rejoiced that you did not
     kneel to Bassanio at 'My Lord, my governor, my King.' I used to
     feel that too much like worship from any girl to her affianced, and
     Portia's position being one of command, I should doubt the
     possibility of such an action...."

I think I received more letters about my Portia than about all my other parts put together.
Many of them came from university men. One old playgoer wrote to tell me that he liked me better
than my former instructress, Mrs. Charles Kean. "She mouthed it as she did most things....
She was not real--a staid, sentimental 'Anglaise,' and more than a little stiffly pokerish."

Henry Irving's Shylock was generally conceded to be full of talent and reality, but some of
his critics could not resist saying that this was not the Jew that Shakespeare drew! Now, who
is in a position to say what is the Jew that Shakespeare drew? I think Henry Irving knew as
well as most! Nay, I am sure that in his age he was the only person able to decide.

Some said his Shylock was intellectual, and appealed more to the intellect of his audiences
than to their emotions. Surely this is talking for the sake of talking. I recall so many things
that touched people to the heart! For absolute pathos, achieved by absolute simplicity of means,
I never saw anything in the theater to compare with his Shylock's return home over the bridge
to his deserted house after Jessica's flight.

A younger actor, producing "The Merchant of Venice" in recent years, asked Irving if he might
borrow this bit of business. "By all means," said Henry. "With great pleasure."

"Then, why didn't you do it?" inquired my daughter bluntly when the actor was telling us how
kind and courteous Henry had been in allowing him to use his stroke of invention.

"What do you mean?" asked the astonished actor.

My daughter told him that Henry had dropped the curtain on a stage full of noise, and light,
and revelry. When it went up again the stage was empty, desolate, with no light but a pale
moon, and all sounds of life at a great distance--and then over the bridge came the wearied
figure of the Jew. This marked the passing of the time between Jessica's elopement and Shylock's
return home. It created an atmosphere of silence, and the middle of the night.

"You came back without dropping the curtain," said my daughter, "and so it wasn't a bit the same."

"I couldn't risk dropping the curtain for the business," answered the actor, "because it needed
applause to take it up again!"

Henry Irving never grew tired of a part, never ceased to work at it, just as he never gave
up the fight against his limitations. His diction, as the years went on, grew far clearer when
he was depicting rage and passion. His dragging leg dragged no more. To this heroic perseverance
he added an almost childlike eagerness in hearing any suggestion for the improvement of his
interpretations which commended itself to his imagination and his judgment. From a blind man
came the most illuminating criticism of his Shylock. The sensitive ear of the sightless hearer
detected a fault in Henry Irving's method of delivering the opening line of his part:

"Three thousand ducats--well!"

"I hear no sound of the usurer in that," the blind man said at the end of the performance.
"It is said with the reflective air of a man to whom money means very little."

The justice of the criticism appealed strongly to Henry. He revised his reading not only of
the first line, but of many other lines in which he saw now that he had not been enough of
the money-lender.

In more recent years he made one change in his dress. He asked my daughter--whose cleverness
in such things he fully recognized--to put some stage jewels on to the scarf that he wore round
his head when he supped with the Christians.

"I have an idea that, when he went to that supper, he'd like to flaunt his wealth in the Christian
dogs' faces. It will look well, too--'like the toad, ugly and venomous,' wearing precious jewels
on his head!"

The scarf, witnessing to that untiring love of throwing new light on his impersonations which
distinguished Henry to the last, is now in my daughter's possession. She values no relic of
him more unless it be the wreath of oak-leaves that she made him for "Coriolanus."

We had a beautiful scene for this play--a garden with a dark pine forest in the distance. Henry
was not good in it. He had a Romeo part which had not been written by Shakespeare. We played
it instead of the last act of "The Merchant of Venice." I never liked it being left out, but
people used to say, like parrots, that "the interest of the play ended with the Trial Scene,"
and Henry believed them--for a time. I never did. Shakespeare never gives up in the last act
like most dramatists.

Twice in "Iolanthe" I forgot that I was blind! The first time was when I saw old Tom Mead and
Henry Irving groping for the amulet, which they had to put on my breast to heal me of my infirmity.
It had slipped on to the floor, and both of them were too short-sighted to see it! Here was
a predicament! I had to stoop and pick it up for them.

The second time I put out my hand and cried: "Look out for my lilies," when Henry nearly stepped
on the bunch with which a little girl friend of mine supplied me every night I played the part.

Iolanthe was one of Helen Faucit's great successes. I never saw this distinguished actress
when she was in her prime. Her Rosalind, when she came out of her retirement to play a few
performances, appeared to me more like a lecture on Rosalind, than like Rosalind herself: a
lecture all young actresses would have greatly benefited by hearing, for it was of great beauty.
I remember being particularly struck by her treatment of the lines in the scene where Celia
conducts the mock marriage between Orlando and Ganymede. Another actress, whom I saw as Rosalind,
said the words, "And I do take thee, Orlando, to be my husband," with a comical grimace to
the audience. Helen Faucit flushed up and said the line with deep and true emotion, suggesting
that she was, indeed, giving herself to Orlando. There was a world of poetry in the way she
drooped over his hand.

Mead distinguished himself in "Iolanthe" by speaking of "that immortal land where God hath
His--His--er--room?--no--lodging?--no--where God hath His apartments!"

The word he could not hit was, I think, "dwelling." He used often to try five or six words
before he got the right one or the wrong one--it was generally the wrong one--in full hearing
of the audience.

IX

LYCEUM PRODUCTIONS

"THE MERCHANT OF VENICE" TO "ROMEO AND JULIET"

"The Merchant of Venice" was acted two hundred and fifty consecutive nights on the occasion
of the first production. On the hundredth night every member of the audience was presented
with Henry Irving's acting edition of the play bound in white velum--a solid and permanent
souvenir, paper, print and binding all being of the best. The famous Chiswick Press did all
his work of this kind. On the title page was printed:

    "I count myself in nothing else so happy
    As in a soul remembering my good friends."

At the close of the performance which took place on Saturday, February 14, 1880, Henry entertained
a party of 350 to supper on the stage. This was the first of those enormous gatherings which
afterwards became an institution at the Lyceum.

It was at this supper that Lord Houghton surprised us all by making a very sarcastic speech
about the stage and actors generally. It was no doubt more interesting than the "butter" which
is usually applied to the profession at such functions, but every one felt that it was rather
rude to abuse long runs when the company were met to celebrate a hundredth performance!

Henry Irving's answer was delightful. He spoke with good sense, good humour and good breeding,
and it was all spontaneous. I wish that a phonograph had been in existence that night, and
that a record had been taken of the speech. It would be so good for the people who have asserted
that Henry Irving always employed journalists (when he could not get Poets Laureate!) to write
his speeches for him! The voice was always the voice of Irving, if the hands were sometimes
the hands of the professional writer. When Henry was thrown on his debating resources he really
spoke better than when he prepared a speech, and his letters prove, if proof were needed, how
finely he could write! Those who represent him as dependent in such matters on the help of
literary hacks are just ignorant of the facts.

During the many years that I played Portia I seldom had a Bassanio to my mind. It seems to
be a most difficult part, to judge by the colorless and disappointing renderings that are given
of it. George Alexander was far the best of my Bassanio bunch! Mr. Barnes, "handsome Jack Barnes,"
as we called him, was a good actor, is a good actor still, as every one knows, but his gentility
as Bassanio was overwhelming. It was said of him that he thought more of the rounding of his
legs than the charms of his affianced wife, and that in the love-scenes he appeared to be taking
orders for furniture! This was putting it unkindly, but there was some truth in it.

He was so very dignified! My sister Floss (Floss was the first Lyceum Nerissa) and I once tried
to make him laugh by substituting two "almond rings" for the real rings. "Handsome Jack" lost
his temper, which made us laugh the more. He was quite right to be angry. Such fooling on the
stage is very silly. I think it is one of the evils of long runs! When we had seen "handsome
Jack Barnes" imperturbably pompous for two hundred nights in succession, it became too much
for us, and the almond rings were the result.

Mr. Tyars was the Prince of Morocco. Actors might come, and actors might go in the Lyceum company,
but Tyars went on for ever. He never left Henry Irving's management, and was with him in that
last performance of "Becket" at Bradford on October 13, 1905--the last performance ever given
by Henry Irving who died the same night.

Tyars was the most useful actor that we ever had in the company. I should think that the number
of parts he has played in the same piece would constitute a theatrical record.

I don't remember when Tom Mead first played the Duke, but I remember what happened!

     "Shylock, the world thinks, and I think so too."

He began the speech in the Trial Scene very slowly.

Between every word Henry was whispering: "Get on--get on!" Old Mead, whose memory was never
good, became flustered, and at the end of the line came to a dead stop.

"Get on, get on," said Henry.

Mead looked round with dignity, opened his mouth and shut it, opened it again, and in his anxiety
to oblige Henry, did get on indeed!--to the last line of the long speech.

     "We all expect a gentle answer, Jew."

The first line and the last line were all that we heard of the Duke's speech that night. It
must have been the shortest version of it on record.

This was the play with which the Lyceum reopened in the autumn of 1880. I was on the last of
my provincial tours with Charles Kelly at the time, but I must have come up to see the revival,
for I remember Henry Irving in it very distinctly. He had not played the dual rôle of Louis
and Fabien del Franchi before, and he had to compete with old playgoers' memories of Charles
Kean and Fechter. Wisely enough he made of it a "period" play, emphasizing its old-fashioned
atmosphere. In 1891, when the play was revived, the D'Orsay costumes were noticed and considered
piquant and charming. In 1880 I am afraid they were regarded with indifference as merely antiquated.

The grace and elegance of Henry as the civilized brother I shall never forget. There was something
in him to which the perfect style of the D'Orsay period appealed, and he spoke the stilted
language with as much truth as he wore the cravat and the tight-waisted full-breasted coats.
Such lines as--

     "'Tis she! Her footstep beats upon my heart!"

were not absurd from his lips.

The sincerity of the period, he felt, lay in its elegance. A rough movement, a too undeliberate
speech, and the absurdity of the thing might be given away. It was in fact given away by Terriss
at Château-Renaud, who was not the smooth, graceful, courteous villain that Alfred Wigan had
been and that Henry wanted. He told me that he paid Miss Fowler, an actress who in other respects
was not very remarkable, an enormous salary because she could look the high-bred lady of elegant
manners.

It was in "The Corsican Brothers" that tableau curtains were first used at the Lyceum. They
were made of red plush, which suited the old decoration of the theater. Those who only saw
the Lyceum after its renovation in 1881 do not realize perhaps that before that date it was
decorated in dull gold and dark crimson, and had funny boxes with high fronts like old-fashioned
church pews. One of these boxes was rented annually by the Baroness Burdett-Coutts. It was
rather like the toy cardboard theater which children used to be able to buy for sixpence. The
effect was somber, but I think I liked it better than the cold, light, shallow, bastard Pompeian
decoration of later days.

In Hallam Tennyson's life of his father, I find that I described "The Cup" as a "great little
play." After thirty years (nearly) I stick to that. Its chief fault was that it was not long
enough, for it involved a tremendous production, tremendous acting, had all the heroic size
of tragedy, and yet was all over so quickly that we could play a long play like "The Corsican
Brothers" with it in a single evening.

Tennyson read the play to us at Eaton Place. There were present Henry Irving, Ellen Terry,
William Terriss, Mr. Knowles, who had arranged the reading, my daughter Edy, who was then about
nine, Hallam Tennyson, and a dog--I think Charlie, for the days of Fussie were not yet.

Tennyson, like most poets, read in a monotone, rumbling on a low note in much the same way
that Shelley is said to have screamed in a high one. For the women's parts he changed his voice
suddenly, climbed up into a key which he could not sustain. In spite of this I was beginning
to think how impressive it all was, when I looked up and saw Edy, who was sitting on Henry's
knee, looking over his shoulder at young Hallam and laughing, and Henry, instead of reproaching
her, on the broad grin. There was much discussion as to what the play should be called, and
as to whether the names "Synorix" and "Sinnatus" would be confused.

"I don't think they will," I said, for I thought this was a very small matter for the poet
to worry about.

"I do!" said Edy in a loud clear voice, "I haven't known one from the other all the time!"

"Edy, be good!" I whispered.

Henry, mischievous as usual, was delighted at Edy's independence, but her mother was unutterably
ashamed.

"Leave her alone," said Henry, "she's all right."

Tennyson at first wanted to call the play "The Senator's Wife," then thought of "Sinnatus and
Synorix," and finally agreed with us that "The Cup" was the best as it was the simplest title.

The production was one of the most beautiful things that Henry Irving ever accomplished. It
has been described again and again, but none of the descriptions are very successful. There
was a vastness, a spaciousness of proportion about the scene in the Temple of Artemis which
I never saw again upon the stage until my own son attempted something like it in the Church
Scene that he designed for my production of "Much Ado About Nothing" in 1903.

A great deal of the effect was due to the lighting. The gigantic figure of the many-breasted
Artemis, placed far back in the scene-dock, loomed through a blue mist, while the foreground
of the picture was in yellow light. The thrilling effect always to be gained on the stage by
the simple expedient of a great number of people doing the same thing in the same way at the
same moment, was seen in "The Cup," when the stage was covered with a crowd of women who raised
their arms above their heads with a large, rhythmic, sweeping movement and then bowed to the
goddess with the regularity of a regiment saluting.

At rehearsals there was one girl who did this movement with peculiar grace. She wore a black
velveteen dress, although it was very hot weather, and I called her "Hamlet." I used to chaff
her about wearing such a grand dress at rehearsals, but she was never to be seen in any other.
The girls at the theater told me that she was very poor, and that underneath her black velveteen
dress, which she wore summer and winter, she had nothing but a pair of stockings and a chemise.
Not long after the first night of "The Cup" she disappeared. I made inquiries about her, and
found that she was dying in hospital. I went several times to see her. She looked so beautiful
in the little white bed. Her great eyes, black, with weary white lids, used to follow me as
I left the hospital ward, and I could not always tear myself away from their dumb beseechingness,
but would turn back and sit down again by the bed. Once she asked me if I would leave something
belonging to me that she might look at until I came again. I took off the amber and coral beads
that I was wearing at the time and gave them to her. Two days later I had a letter from the
nurse telling me that poor Hamlet was dead--that just before she died, with closed eyes, and
gasping for breath, she sent her love to her "dear Miss Terry," and wanted me to know that
the tall lilies I had brought her on my last visit were to be buried with her, but that she
had wiped the coral and amber beads and put them in cotton-wool, to be returned to me when
she was dead. Poor "Hamlet"!

Quite as wonderful as the Temple Scene was the setting of the first act, which represented
the rocky side of a mountain with a glimpse of a fertile table-land and a pergola with vines
growing over it at the top. The acting in this scene all took place on different levels. The
hunt swept past on one level; the entrance to the temple was on another. A goatherd played
upon a pipe. Scenically speaking, it was not Greece, but Greece in Sicily, Capri, or some such
hilly region.

Henry Irving was not able to look like the full-lipped, full-blooded Romans such as we see
in long lines in marble at the British Museum, so he conceived his own type of the blend of
Roman intellect and sensuality with barbarian cruelty and lust. Tennyson was not pleased with
him as Synorix! How he failed to delight in it as a picture I can't conceive. With a pale,
pale face, bright red hair, gold armor and a tiger-skin, a diabolical expression and very thin
crimson lips, Henry looked handsome and sickening at the same time. Lechery was written across
his forehead.

The first act was well within my means; the second was beyond them, but it was very good for
me to try and do it. I had a long apostrophe to the goddess with my back turned to the audience,
and I never tackled anything more difficult. My dresses, designed by Mr. Godwin, one of them
with the toga made of that wonderful material which Arnott had printed, were simple, fine and free.

I wrote to Tennyson's son Hallam after the first night that I knew his father would be delighted
with Henry's splendid performance, but was afraid he would be disappointed in me.

"Dear Camma," he answered, "I have given your messages to my father, but believe me, who am
not 'common report,' that he will thoroughly appreciate your noble, most beautiful and imaginative
rendering of 'Camma.' My father and myself hope to see you soon, but not while this detestable
cold weather lasts. We trust that you are not now really the worse for that night of nights.

"With all our best wishes,

"Yours ever sincerely,

"HALLAM TENNYSON."

"I quite agree with you as to H.I.'s Synorix."

The music of "The Cup" was not up to the level of the rest. Lady Winchilsea's setting of "Moon
on the field and the foam," written within the compass of eight notes, for my poor singing
voice, which will not go up high nor down low, was effective enough, but the music as a whole
was too "chatty" for a severe tragedy. One night when I was singing my very best:

    "Moon, bring him home, bring him home,
    Safe from the dark and the cold,"

some one in the audience sneezed. Every one burst out laughing, and I had to laugh too. I did
not even attempt the next line.

"The Cup" was called a failure, but it ran 125 nights, and every night the house was crowded!
On the hundredth night I sent Tennyson the Cup itself. I had it made in silver from Mr. Godwin's
design--a three-handled cup, pipkin-shaped, standing on three legs.

"The Cup" and "The Corsican Brothers" together made the bill too heavy and too long, even at
a time when we still "rang up" at 7:30; and in the April following the production of Tennyson's
beautiful tragedy--which I think in sheer poetic intensity surpasses "Becket," although it
is not nearly so good a play--"The Belle's Stratagem" was substituted for "The Corsican Brothers."
This was the first real rollicking comedy that a Lyceum audience had ever seen, and the way
they laughed did my heart good. I had had enough of tragedy and the horrors by this time, and
I could have cried with joy at that rare and welcome sight--an audience rocking with laughter.
On the first night the play opened propitiously enough with a loud laugh due to the only accident
of the kind that ever happened at the Lyceum. The curtain went up before the staff had "cleared,"
and Arnott, Jimmy and the rest were seen running for their lives out of the center entrance!

People said that it was so clever of me to play Camma and Letitia Hardy (the comedy part in
"The Belle's Stratagem") on the same evening. They used to say the same kind thing, "only more
so," when Henry played Jingle and Matthias in "The Bells." But I never liked doing it. A tour
de force is always more interesting to the looker-on than to the person who is taking part
in it. One feels no pride in such an achievement, which ought to be possible to any one calling
himself an actor. Personally, I never play comedy and tragedy on the same night without a sense
that one is spoiling the other. Harmonies are more beautiful than contrasts in acting as in
other things--and more difficult, too.

Henry Irving was immensely funny as Doricourt. We had sort of Beatrice and Benedick scenes
together, and I began to notice what a lot his face did for him. There have only been two faces
on the stage in my time--his and Duse's.

My face has never been of much use to me, but my pace has filled the deficiency sometimes,
in comedy at any rate. In "The Belle's Stratagem" the public had face and pace together, and
they seemed to like it.

There was one scene in which I sang "Where are you going to, my pretty maid?" I used to act
it all the way through and give imitations of Doricourt--ending up by chucking him under the
chin. The house rose at it!

I was often asked at this time when I went out to a party if I would not sing that dear little
song from "The Cup." When I said I didn't think it would sound very nice without the harp,
as it was only a chant on two or three notes, some one would say:

"Well, then, the song in 'The Belle's Stratagem'! That has no accompaniment!"

"No," I used to answer, "but it isn't a song. It's a look here, a gesture there, a laugh anywhere,
and Henry Irving's face everywhere!"

Miss Winifred Emery came to us for "The Belle's Stratagem" and played the part that I had played
years before at the Haymarket. She was bewitching, and in her white wig in the ball-room, beautiful
as well. She knew how to bear herself on the stage instinctively, and could dance a minuet
to perfection. The daughter of Sam Emery, a great comedian in a day of comedians, and the granddaughter
of the Emery, it was not surprising that she should show aptitude for the stage.

Mr. Howe was another new arrival in the Lyceum company. He was at his funniest as Mr. Hardy
in "The Belle's Stratagem." It was not the first time that he had played my father in a piece
(we had acted father and daughter in "The Little Treasure"), and I always called him "Daddy."
The dear old man was much liked by every one. He had a tremendous pair of legs, was bluff and
bustling in manner, though courtly too, and cared more about gardening than acting. He had
a little farm at Isleworth, and he was one of those actors who do not allow the longest theatrical
season to interfere with domesticity and horticulture! Because of his stout gaitered legs and
his Isleworth estate, Henry called him "the agricultural actor." He was a good old port and
whisky drinker, but he could carry his liquor like a Regency man.

He was a walking history of the stage. "Yes, my dear," he used to say to me, "I was in the
original cast of the first performance of 'The Lady of Lyons,' which Lord Lytton gave Macready
as a present, and I was the original François when 'Richelieu' was produced. Lord Lytton wrote
this part for a lady, but at rehearsal it was found that there was a good deal of movement
awkward for a lady to do, so I was put into it."

"What year was it, Daddy?"

"God bless me, I must think.... It must have been about a year after Her Majesty took the throne."

For forty years and nine months old Mr. Howe had acted at the Haymarket Theater! When he was
first there, the theater was lighted with oil lamps, and when a lamp smoked or went out, one
of the servants of the theater came on and lighted it up again during the action of the play.

It was the acting of Edmund Kean in "Richard III." which first filled Daddy Howe with the desire
to go on the stage. He saw the great actor again when he was living in retirement at Richmond--in
those last sad days when the Baroness Burdett-Coutts (then the rich young heiress, Miss Angela
Burdett-Coutts), driving up the hill, saw him sitting huddled up on one of the public seats
and asked if she could do anything for him.

"Nothing, I think," he answered sadly. "Ah yes, there is one thing. You were kind enough the
other day to send me some very excellent brandy. Send me some more."[1]

[Footnote 1: This was a favorite story of Henry Irving's, and for that reason alone I think
it worth telling, although Sir Squire Bancroft assures me that stubborn dates make it impossible
that the tale should be true.]

Of Henry Irving as an actor Mr. Howe once said to me that at first he was prejudiced against
him because he was so different from the other great actors that he had known.

"'This isn't a bit like Iago,' I said to myself when I first saw him in 'Othello.' That was
at the end of the first act. But he had commanded my attention to his innovations. In the second
act I found myself deeply interested in watching and studying the development of his conception.
In the third act I was fascinated by his originality. By the end of the play I wondered that
I could ever have thought that the part ought to be played differently."

Daddy Howe was the first member of the Lyceum company who got a reception from the audience
on his entrance as a public favorite. He remained with us until his death, which took place
on our fourth American tour in 1893.

Every one has commended Henry Irving's kindly courtesy in inviting Edwin Booth to come and
play with him at the Lyceum Theater. Booth was having a wretched season at the Princess's,
which was when he went there a theater on the down-grade, and under a thoroughly commercial
management. The great American actor, through much domestic trouble and bereavement, had more
or less "given up" things. At any rate he had not the spirit which can combat such treatment
as he received at the Princess's, where the pieces in which he appeared were "thrown" on to
the stage with every mark of assumption that he was not going to be a success.

Yet, although he accepted with gratitude Henry Irving's suggestion that he should migrate from
the Princess's to the Lyceum and appear there three times a week as Othello with the Lyceum
company and its manager to support him, I cannot be sure that Booth's pride was not more hurt
by this magnificent hospitality than it ever could have been by disaster. It is always more
difficult to receive than to give.

Few people thought of this, I suppose. I did, because I could imagine Henry Irving in America
in the same situation--accepting the hospitality of Booth. Would not he too have been melancholy,
quiet, unassertive, almost as uninteresting and uninterested as Booth was?

I saw him first at a benefit performance at Drury Lane. I came to the door of the room where
Henry was dressing, and Booth was sitting there with his back to me.

"Here's Miss Terry," said Henry as I came round the door. Booth looked up at me swiftly. I
have never in any face, in any country, seen such wonderful eyes. There was a mystery about
his appearance and his manner--a sort of pride which seemed to say: "Don't try to know me,
for I am not what I have been." He seemed broken, and devoid of ambition.

At rehearsal he was very gentle and apathetic. Accustomed to playing Othello with stock companies,
he had few suggestions to make about the stage-management. The part was to him more or less
of a monologue.

"I shall never make you black," he said one morning. "When I take your hand I shall have a
corner of my drapery in my hand. That will protect you."

I am bound to say that I thought of Mr. Booth's "protection" with some yearning the next week
when I played Desdemona to Henry's Othello. Before he had done with me I was nearly as black as he.

Booth was a melancholy, dignified Othello, but not great as Salvini was great. Salvini's Hamlet
made me scream with mirth, but his Othello was the grandest, biggest, most glorious thing.
We often prate of "reserved force." Salvini had it, for the simple reason that his was the
gigantic force which may be restrained because of its immensity. Men have no need to dam up
a little purling brook. If they do it in acting, it is tame, absurd and pretentious. But Salvini
held himself in, and still his groan was like a tempest, his passion huge.

The fact is that, apart from Salvini's personal genius, the foreign temperament is better fitted
to deal with Othello than the English. Shakespeare's French and Italians, Greeks and Latins,
medievals and barbarians, fancifuls and reals, all have a dash of Elizabethan English men in
them, but not Othello.

Booth's Othello was very helpful to my Desdemona. It is difficult to preserve the simple, heroic
blindness of Desdemona to the fact that her lord mistrusts her, if her lord is raving and stamping
under her nose! Booth was gentle in the scenes with Desdemona until the scene where Othello
overwhelms her with the foul word and destroys her fool's paradise. Love does make fools of
us all, surely, but I wanted to make Desdemona out the fool who is the victim of love and faith;
not the simpleton, whose want of tact in continually pleading Cassio's cause is sometimes irritating
to the audience.

My greatest triumph as Desdemona was not gained with the audience but with Henry Irving! He
found my endeavors to accept comfort from Iago so pathetic that they brought the tears to his
eyes. It was the oddest sensation when I said "Oh, good Iago, what shall I do to win my lord
again?" to look up--my own eyes dry, for Desdemona is past crying then--and see Henry's eyes
at their biggest, luminous, soft and full of tears! He was, in spite of Iago and in spite of
his power of identifying himself with the part, very deeply moved by my acting. But he knew
how to turn it to his purpose: he obtrusively took the tears with his fingers and blew his
nose with much feeling, softly and long (so much expression there is, by the way, in blowing
the nose on the stage), so that the audience might think his emotion a fresh stroke of hypocrisy.

Every one liked Henry's Iago. For the first time in his life he knew what it was to win unanimous
praise. Nothing could be better, I think, than Mr. Walkley's[1] description: "Daringly Italian,
a true compatriot of the Borgias, or rather, better than Italians, that devil incarnate, an
Englishman Italianate."

[Footnote 1: Mr. A.B. Walkley, the gifted dramatic critic of The Times.]

One adored him, devil though he was. He was so full of charm, so sincerely the "honest" Iago,
peculiarly sympathetic with Othello, Desdemona, Roderigo, all of them--except his wife. It
was only in the soliloquies and in the scenes with his wife that he revealed his devil's nature.
Could one ever forget those grapes which he plucked in the first act, and slowly ate, spitting
out the seeds, as if each one represented a worthy virtue to be put out of his mouth, as God,
according to the evangelist, puts out the lukewarm virtues. His Iago and his Romeo in different
ways proved his power to portray Italian passions--the passions of lovely, treacherous people,
who will either sing you a love sonnet or stab you in the back--you are not sure which!

We played "Othello" for six weeks, three performances a week, to guinea stalls, and could have
played it longer. Each week Henry and Booth changed parts. For both of them it was a change
for the worse.

Booth's Iago seemed deadly commonplace after Henry's. He was always the snake in the grass;
he showed the villain in all the scenes. He could not resist the temptation of making polished
and ornate effects.

Henry Irving's Othello was condemned almost as universally as his Iago was praised. For once
I find myself with the majority. He screamed and ranted and raved--lost his voice, was slow
where he should have been swift, incoherent where he should have been strong. I could not bear
to see him in the part. It was painful to me. Yet night after night he achieved in the speech
to the Senate one of the most superb and beautiful bits of acting of his life. It was wonderful.
He spoke the speech, beaming on Desdemona all the time. The gallantry of the thing is indescribable.

I think his failure as Othello was one of the unspoken bitternesses of Henry's life. When I
say "failure" I am of course judging him by his own standard, and using the word to describe
what he was to himself, not what he was to the public. On the last night, he rolled up the
clothes that he had worn as the Moor one by one, carefully laying one garment on top of the
other, and then, half-humorously and very deliberately said, "Never again!" Then he stretched
himself with his arms above his head and gave a great sigh of relief.

Mr. Pinero was excellent as Roderigo in this production. He was always good in the "silly ass"
type of part, and no one could say of him that he was playing himself!

Desdemona is not counted a big part by actresses, but I loved playing it. Some nights I played
it beautifully. My appearance was right--I was such a poor wraith of a thing. But let there
be no mistake--it took strength to act this weakness and passiveness of Desdemona's. I soon
found that, like Cordelia, she has plenty of character.

Reading the play the other day, I studied the opening scene. It is the finest opening to a
play I know.

How many times Shakespeare draws fathers and daughters, and how little stock he seems to take
of mothers! Portia and Desdemona, Cordelia, Rosalind and Miranda, Lady Macbeth, Queen Katherine
and Hermione, Ophelia, Jessica, Hero, and many more are daughters of fathers, but of their
mothers we hear nothing. My own daughter called my attention to this fact quite recently, and
it is really a singular fact. Of mothers of sons there are plenty of examples: Constance, Volumnia,
the Countess Rousillon, Gertrude; but if there are mothers of daughters at all, they are poor
examples, like Juliet's mother and Mrs. Page. I wonder if in all the many hundreds of books
written on Shakespeare and his plays this point has been taken up? I once wrote a paper on
the "Letters in Shakespeare's Plays," and congratulated myself that they had never been made
a separate study. The very day after I first read my paper before the British Empire Shakespeare
League, a lady wrote to me from Oxford and said I was mistaken in thinking that there was no
other contribution to the subject. She enclosed an essay of her own which had either been published
or read before some society. Probably some one else has dealt with Shakespeare's patronage
of fathers and neglect of mothers! I often wonder what the mothers of Goneril, Regan, and Cordelia
were like! I think Lear must have married twice.

This was the first of Henry Irving's great Shakespearean productions. "Hamlet" and "Othello"
had been mounted with care, but, in spite of statements that I have seen to the contrary, they
were not true reflections of Irving as a producer. In beauty I do not think that "Romeo and
Juliet" surpassed "The Cup," but it was very sumptuous, impressive and Italian. It was the
most elaborate of all the Lyceum productions. In it Henry first displayed his mastery of crowds.
The brawling of the rival houses in the streets, the procession of girls to wake Juliet on
her wedding morning, the musicians, the magnificent reconciliation of the two houses which
closed the play, every one on the stage holding a torch, were all treated with a marvelous
sense of pictorial effect.

Henry once said to me: "'Hamlet' could be played anywhere on its acting merits. It marches
from situation to situation. But 'Romeo and Juliet' proceeds from picture to picture. Every
line suggests a picture. It is a dramatic poem rather than a drama, and I mean to treat it
from that point of view."

While he was preparing the production he revived "The Two Roses," a company in which as Digby
Grant he had made a great success years before. I rehearsed the part of Lottie two or three
times, but Henry released me because I was studying Juliet; and as he said, "You've got to
do all you know with it."

Perhaps the sense of this responsibility weighed on me. Perhaps I was neither young enough
nor old enough to play Juliet. I read everything that had ever been written about her before
I had myself decided what she was. It was a dreadful mistake. That was the first thing wrong
with my Juliet--lack of original impulse.

As for the second and the third and the fourth--well, I am not more than common vain, I trust,
but I see no occasion to write them all down.

It was perhaps the greatest opportunity that I had yet had at the Lyceum. I studied the part
at my cottage at Hampton Court in a bedroom looking out over the park. There was nothing wrong
with that. By the way, how important it is to be careful about environment and everything else
when one is studying. One ought to be in the country, but not all the time.... It is good to
go about and see pictures, hear music, and watch everything. One should be very much alone,
and should study early and late--all night, if need be, even at the cost of sleep. Everything
that one does or thinks or sees will have an effect upon the part, precisely as on an unborn child.

I wish now that instead of reading how this and that actress had played Juliet, and cracking
my brain over the different readings of her lines and making myself familiar with the different
opinions of philosophers and critics, I had gone to Verona, and just imagined. Perhaps the
most wonderful description of Juliet, as she should be acted, occurs in Gabriele d'Annunzio's
"Il Fuoco." In the book an Italian actress tells her friend how she played the part when she
was a girl of fourteen in an open-air theater near Verona. Could a girl of fourteen play such
a part? Yes, if she were not youthful, only young with the youth of the poet, tragically old
as some youth is.

Now I understand Juliet better. Now I know how she should be played. But time is inexorable.
At sixty, know what one may, one cannot play Juliet.

I know that Henry Irving's production of "Romeo and Juliet" has been attributed to my ambition.
What nonsense! Henry Irving now had in view the production of all Shakespeare's actable plays,
and naturally "Romeo and Juliet" would come as early as possible in the programme.

The music was composed by Sir Julius Benedict, and was exactly right. There was no leit-motiv,
no attempt to reflect the passionate emotion of the drama, but a great deal of Southern joy,
of flutes and wood and wind. At a rehearsal which had lasted far into the night I asked Sir
Julius, who was very old, if he wasn't sleepy.

"Sleepy! Good heavens, no! I never sleep more than two hours. It's the end of my life, and
I don't want to waste it in sleep!"

There is generally some "old 'un" in a company now who complains of insufficient rehearsals,
and says, perhaps, "Think of Irving's rehearsals! They were the real thing." While we were
rehearsing "Romeo and Juliet" I remember that Mrs. Stirling, a charming and ripe old actress
whom Henry had engaged to play the nurse, was always groaning out that she had not rehearsed
enough.

"Oh, these modern ways!" she used to say. "We never have any rehearsals at all. How am I going
to play the Nurse?"

She played it splendidly--indeed, she as the Nurse and old Tom Mead as the Apothecary--the
two "old 'uns" romped away with chief honors, had the play all to nothing.

I had one battle with Mrs. Stirling over "tradition." It was in the scene beginning--

    "The clock struck twelve when I did send the nurse,
    And yet she is not here...."

Tradition said that Juliet must go on coquetting and clicking over the Nurse to get the news
of Romeo out of her. Tradition said that Juliet must give imitations of the Nurse on the line
"Where's your mother?" in order to get that cheap reward, "a safe laugh." I felt that it was
wrong. I felt that Juliet was angry with the Nurse. Each time she delayed in answering I lost
my temper, with genuine passion. At "Where's your mother?" I spoke with indignation, tears
and rage. We were a long time coaxing Mrs. Stirling to let the scene be played on these lines,
but this was how it was played eventually.

She was the only Nurse that I have ever seen who did not play the part like a female pantaloon.
She did not assume any great decrepitude. In the "Cords" scene, where the Nurse tells Juliet
of the death of Paris, she did not play for comedy at all, but was very emotional. Her parrot
scream when she found me dead was horribly real and effective.

Years before I had seen Mrs. Stirling act at the Adelphi with Benjamin Webster, and had cried
out: "That's my idea of an actress!" In those days she was playing Olivia (in a version of
the "Vicar of Wakefield" by Tom Taylor), Peg Woffington, and other parts of the kind. She swept
on to the stage and in that magical way, never, never to be learned, filled it. She had such
breadth of style, such a lovely voice, such a beautiful expressive eye! When she played the
Nurse at the Lyceum her voice had become a little jangled and harsh, but her eye was still
bright and her art had not abated--not one little bit! Nor had her charm. Her smile was the
most fascinating, irresistible thing imaginable.

The production was received with abuse by the critics. It was one of our failures, yet it ran
a hundred and fifty nights!

Henry Irving's Romeo had more bricks thrown at it even than my Juliet! I remember that not
long after we opened, a well-known politician who had enough wit and knowledge of the theater
to have taken a more original view, came up to me and said:

"I say, E.T., why is Irving playing Romeo?"

I looked at his distraught. "You should ask me why I am playing Juliet! Why are we any of us
doing what we have to do?"

"Oh, you're all right. But Irving!"

"I don't agree with you," I said. I was growing a little angry by this time. "Besides, who
would you have play Romeo?"

"Well, it's so obvious. You've got Terriss in the cast."

"Terriss!"

"Yes. I don't doubt Irving's intellectuality, you know. As Romeo he reminds me of a pig who
has been taught to play the fiddle. He does it cleverly, but he would be better employed in
squealing. He cannot shine in the part like the fiddler. Terriss in this case is the fiddler."

I was furious. "I am sorry you don't realize," I said, "that the worst thing Henry Irving could
do would be better than the best of any one else."

When dear Terris did play Romeo at the Lyceum two or three years later to the Juliet of Mary
Anderson, he attacked the part with a good deal of fire. He was young, truly, and stamped his
foot a great deal, was vehement and passionate. But it was so obvious that there was no intelligence
behind his reading. He did not know what the part was about, and all the finer shades of meaning
in it he missed. Yet the majority, with my political friend, would always prefer a Terriss
as Romeo to a Henry Irving.

I am not going to say that Henry's Romeo was good. What I do say is that some bits of it were
as good as anything he ever did. In the big emotional scene (in the Friar's cell), he came
to grief precisely as he had done in Othello. He screamed, grew slower and slower, and looked
older and older. When I begin to think it over I see that he often failed in such scenes through
his very genius for impersonation. An actor of commoner mould takes such scenes rhetorically--recites
them, and gets through them with some success. But the actor who impersonates, feels, and lives
such anguish or passion or tempestuous grief, does for the moment in imagination nearly die.
Imagination impeded Henry Irving in what are known as "strong" scenes.

He was a perfect Hamlet, a perfect Richard III., a perfect Shylock, except in the scene with
Tubal, where I think his voice failed him. He was an imperfect Romeo; yet, as I have said,
he did things in the part which were equal to the best of his perfect Hamlet.

His whole attitude before he met Juliet was beautiful. He came on from the very back of the
stage and walked over a little bridge with a book in his hand, sighing and dying for Rosaline.
In Iago he had been Italian. Then it was the Italy of Venice. As Romeo it was the Italy of
Tuscany. His clothes were as Florentine as his bearing. He ignored the silly tradition that
Romeo must wear a feather in his cap. In the course of his study of the part he had found that
the youthful fops and gallants of the period put in their hats anything that they had been
given--some souvenir "dallying with the innocence of love." And he wore in his hat a sprig
of crimson oleander.

It is not usual, I think, to make much of the Rosaline episode. Henry Irving chose with great
care a tall dark girl to represent Rosaline at the ball. Can I ever forget his face when suddenly
in pursuit of her he saw me.... Once more I reflect that a face is the chiefest equipment of
the actor.

I know they said he looked too old--was too old for Romeo. In some scenes he looked aged as
only a very young man can look. He was not boyish; but ought Romeo to be boyish?

I am not supporting the idea of an elderly Romeo. When it came to the scenes where Romeo "poses"
and is poetical but insincere, Henry did seem elderly. He couldn't catch the youthful pose
of melancholy with its extravagant expression. It was in the repressed scenes, where the melancholy
was sincere, the feeling deeper, and the expression slighter, that he was at his best.

"He may be good, but he isn't Romeo," is a favorite type of criticism. But I have seen Duse
and Bernhardt in "La Dame aux Camélias," and cannot say which is Marguerite Gauthier. Each
has her own view of the character, and each is it according to her imagination.

According to his imagination, Henry Irving was Romeo.

Again in this play he used his favorite "fate" tree. It gloomed over the street along which
Romeo went to the ball. It was in the scene with the Apothecary. Henry thought that it symbolized
the destiny hanging over the lovers.

It is usual for Romeo to go in to the dead body of Juliet lying in Capulet's monument through
a gate on the level, as if the Capulets were buried but a few feet from the road. At rehearsals
Henry Irving kept on saying: "I must go down to the vault." After a great deal of consideration
he had an inspiration. He had the exterior of the vault in one scene, the entrance to it down
a flight of steps. Then the scene changed to the interior of the vault, and the steps now led
from a height above the stage. At the close of the scene, when the Friar and the crowd came
rushing down into the tomb, these steps were thronged with people, each one holding a torch,
and the effect was magnificent.

At the opening of the Apothecary Scene, when Balthazar comes to tell Romeo of Juliet's supposed
death, Henry was marvelous. His face grew whiter and whiter.

    "Then she is well and nothing can be ill;
    Her body sleeps in Capulet's monument."

It was during the silence after those two lines that Henry Irving as Romeo had one of those
sublime moments which an actor only achieves once or twice in his life. The only thing that
I ever saw to compare with it was Duse's moment when she took Kellner's card in "Magda." There
was absolutely no movement, but her face grew white, and the audience knew what was going on
in her soul, as she read the name of the man who years before had seduced and deserted her.

As Juliet I did not look right. My little daughter Edy, a born archaeologist, said: "Mother,
you oughtn't to have a fringe." Yet, strangely enough, Henry himself liked me as Juliet. After
the first night, or was it the dress rehearsal--I am not quite clear which--he wrote to me
that "beautiful as Portia was, Juliet leaves her far, far behind. Never anybody acted more
exquisitely the part of the performance which I saw from the front. 'Hie to high fortune,'
and 'Where spirits resort' were simply incomparable.... Your mother looked very radiant last
night. I told her how proud she should be, and she was.... The play will be, I believe, a mighty
'go,' for the beauty of it is bewildering. I am sure of this, for it dumbfounded them all last
night. Now you--we--must make our task a delightful one by doing everything possible to make
our acting easy and comfortable. We are in for a long run."

To this letter he added a very human postscript: "I have determined not to see a paper for
a week--I know they'll cut me up, and I don't like it!"

Yes, he was cut up, and he didn't like it, but a few people knew. One of them was Mr. Frankfort
Moore, the novelist, who wrote to me of this "revealing Romeo, full of originality and power."

"Are you affected by adverse criticism?" I was asked once. I answered then and I answer now,
that legitimate adverse criticism has always been of use to me if only because it "gave me
to think" furiously. Seldom does the outsider, however talented, as a writer and observer,
recognize the actor's art, and often we are told that we are acting best when we are showing
the works most plainly, and denied any special virtue when we are concealing our method. Professional
criticism is most helpful, chiefly because it induces one to criticize oneself. "Did I give
that impression to anyone? Then there must have been something wrong somewhere." The "something"
is often a perfectly different blemish from that to which the critic drew attention.

Unprofessional criticism is often more helpful still, but alas! one's friends are to one's
faults more than a little blind, and to one's virtues very kind! It is through letters from
people quite unknown to me that I have sometimes learned valuable lessons. During the run of
"Romeo and Juliet" some one wrote and told me that if the dialogue at the ball could be taken
in a lighter and quicker way, it would better express the manner of a girl of Juliet's age.
The same unknown critic pointed out that I was too slow and studied in the Balcony Scene. She--I
think it was a woman--was perfectly right.

On the hundredth night, although no one liked my Juliet very much, I received many flowers,
little tokens, and poems. To one bouquet was pinned a note which ran:

    "To JULIET,
      As a mark of respect and Esteem
        From the Gasmen of the Lyceum Theater."

That alone would have made my recollections of "Romeo and Juliet" pleasant. But there was more.
At the supper on the stage after the hundredth performance, Sarah Bernhardt was present. She
said nice things to me, and I was enraptured that my "vraies larmes" should have pleased and
astonished her! I noticed that she hardly ever moved, yet all the time she gave the impression
of swift, butterfly movement. While talking to Henry she took some red stuff out of her bag
and rubbed it on her lips! This frank "making-up" in public was a far more astonishing thing
in the 'eighties than it would be now. But I liked Miss Sarah for it, as I liked her for everything.

How wonderful she looked in those days! She was as transparent as an azalea, only more so;
like a cloud, only not so thick. Smoke from a burning paper describes her more nearly! She
was hollow-eyed, thin, almost consumptive-looking. Her body was not the prison of her soul,
but its shadow.

On the stage she has always seemed to me more a symbol, an ideal, an epitome than a woman.
It is this quality which makes her so easy in such lofty parts as Phèdre. She is always a miracle.
Let her play "L'Aiglon," and while matter-of-fact members of the audience are wondering if
she looks really like the unfortunate King of Rome, and deciding against her and in favor of
Maude Adams who did look the boy to perfection, more imaginative watchers see in Sarah's performance
a truth far bigger than a mere physical resemblance. Rostand says in the foreword to his play,
that in it he does not espouse this cause or that, but only tells the story of "one poor little
boy." In another of his plays, "Cyrano de Bergerac," there is one poor little tune played on
a pipe of which the hero says:

     "Écoutez, Gascons, c'est toute la Gascogne."

Though I am not French, and know next to nothing of the language, I thought when I saw Sarah's
"L'Aiglon," that of that one poor little boy too might be said:

     "Écoutez, Français, c'est toute la France!"

It is this extraordinary decorative and symbolic quality of Sarah's which makes her transcend
all personal and individual feeling on the stage. No one plays a love scene better, but it
is a picture of love that she gives, a strange orchidaceous picture rather than a suggestion
of the ordinary human passion as felt by ordinary human people. She is exotic--well, what else
should she be? One does not, at any rate one should not, quarrel with an exquisite tropical
flower and call it unnatural because it is not a buttercup or a cowslip.

I have spoken of the face as the chief equipment of the actor. Sarah Bernhardt contradicts
this at once. Her face does little for her. Her walk is not much. Nothing about her is more
remarkable than the way she gets about the stage without one ever seeing her move. By what
magic does she triumph without two of the richest possessions that an actress can have? Eleonora
Duse has them. Her walk is the walk of the peasant, fine and free. She has the superb carriage
of the head which goes with that fearless movement from the hips--and her face! There is nothing
like it, nothing! But it is as the real woman, a particular woman, that Duse triumphs most.
Her Cleopatra was insignificant compared with Sarah's--she is not so pictorial.

How futile it is to make comparisons! Better far to thank heaven for both these women.

     EXTRACT FROM MY DIARY

     Saturday, June 11, 1892.--"To see 'Miss Sarah' as 'Cléopâtre'
     (Sardou superb!). She was inspired! The essence of Shakespeare's
     'Cleopatra.' I went round and implored her to do Juliet. She said
     she was too old. She can never be old. 'Age cannot wither her.'

     June 18.--"Again to see Sarah--this time 'La Dame aux Camélias.'
     Fine, marvelous. Her writing the letter, and the last act the best.

     July 11.--"Telegraph says 'Frou-frou' was 'never at any time a
     character in which she (Sarah) excelled.' Dear me! When I saw it I
     thought it wonderful. It made me ashamed of ever having played it."

Sarah Bernhardt has shown herself the equal of any man as a manager. Her productions are always
beautiful; she chooses her company with discretion, and sees to every detail of the stage-management.
In this respect she differs from all other foreign artists that I have seen. I have always
regretted that Duse should play as a rule with such a mediocre company and should be apparently
so indifferent to her surroundings. In "Adrienne Lecouvreur" it struck me that the careless
stage-management utterly ruined the play, and I could not bear to see Duse as Adrienne beautifully
dressed while the Princess and the other Court ladies wore cheap red velveteen and white satin
and brought the pictorial level of the performance down to that of a "fit-up" or booth.

Who could mention "Miss Sarah" (my own particular name for her) as being present at a supper-party
without saying something about her by the way! Still, I have been a long time by the way. Now
for Romeo and Juliet!

At that 100th-night celebration I saw Mrs. Langtry in evening dress for the first time, and
for the first time realized how beautiful she was. Her neck and shoulders kept me so busy looking
that I could neither talk nor listen.

"Miss Sarah" and I have always been able to understand one another, although I hardly know
a word of French and her English is scanty. She too, liked my Juliet--she and Henry Irving!
Well, that was charming, although I could not like it myself, except for my "Cords" scene,
of which I shall always be proud.

My dresser, Sarah Holland, came to me, I think, during "Romeo and Juliet." I never had any
other dresser at the Lyceum except Sally's sister Lizzie, who dressed me during the first few
years. Sally stuck to me loyally until the Lyceum days ended. Then she perceived "a divided
duty." On one side was "the Guv'nor" with "the Guv'nor's" valet Walter, to whom she was devoted;
on the other was a precarious in and out job with me, for after the Lyceum I never knew what
I was going to do next. She chose to go with Henry, and it was she and Walter who dressed him
for the last time when he lay dead in the hotel bedroom at Bradford.

Sally Holland's two little daughters "walked on" in "Romeo and Juliet." Henry always took an
interest in the children in the theater, and was very kind to them. One night as we came down
the stairs from our dressing-rooms to go home--the theater was quiet and deserted--we found
a small child sitting forlornly and patiently on the lowest step.

"Well, my dear, what are you doing here?" said Henry.

"Waiting for mother, sir."

"Are you acting in the theater?"

"Yes, sir."

"And what part do you take?"

"Please, sir, first I'm a water-carrier, then I'm a little page, and then I'm a virgin."

Henry and I sat down on the stairs and laughed until we cried! Little Flo Holland was one of
the troop of "virgins" who came to wake Juliet on her bridal morn. As time went on she was
promoted to more important parts, but she never made us laugh so much again.

Her mother was a "character," a dear character. She had an extraordinarily open mind, and was
ready to grasp each new play as it came along as a separate and entirely different field of
operations! She was also extremely methodical, and only got flurried once in a blue moon. When
we went to America and made the acquaintance of that dreadful thing, a "one-night stand," she
was as precise and particular about having everything nice and in order for me as if we were
going to stay in the town a month. Down went my neat square of white drugget; all the lights
in my dressing-room were arranged as I wished. Everything was unpacked and ironed. One day
when I came into some American theater to dress I found Sally nearly in tears.

"What's the matter with you, Sally?" I asked.

"I 'aven't 'ad a morsel to heat all day, dear, and I can't 'eat my iron."

"Eat your iron, Sally! What do you mean?"

"'Ow am I to iron all this, dear?" wailed Sally, picking up my Nance Oldfield apron and a few
other trifles. "It won't get 'ot."

Until then I really thought that Sally was being sardonic about an iron as a substitute for
victuals!

When she first began to dress me, I was very thin, so thin that it was really a grief to me.
Sally would comfort me in my thin days by the terse compliment:

"Beautiful and fat to-night, dear."

As the years went on and I grew fat, she made a change in the compliment:

"Beautiful and thin to-night, dear."

Mr. Fernandez played Friar Laurence in "Romeo and Juliet." He was a very nervous actor, and
it used to paralyze him with fright when I knelt down in the friar's cell with my back to the
audience and put safety pins in the drapery I wore over my head to keep it in position while
I said the lines,

    "Are you at leisure, holy father, now
    Or shall I come to you at evening mass?"

Not long after the production of "Romeo and Juliet" I saw the performance of a Greek play--the
"Electra," I think--by some Oxford students. A young woman veiled in black with bowed head
was brought in on a chariot. Suddenly she lifted her head and looked round, revealing a face
of such pure classic beauty and a glance of such pathos that I called out:

"What a supremely beautiful girl!"

Then I remembered that there were no women in the cast! The face belonged to a young Oxford
man, Frank Benson.

We engaged him to play Paris in "Romeo and Juliet," when George Alexander, the original Paris,
left the Lyceum for a time. Already Benson gave promise of turning out quite a different person
from the others. He had not nearly so much of the actor's instinct as Terriss, but one felt
that he had far more earnestness. He was easily distinguished as a man with a purpose, one
of those workers who "scorn delights and live laborious days." Those laborious days led him
at last to the control of two or three companies, all traveling through Great Britain playing
a Shakespearean répertoire. A wonderful organizer, a good actor (oddly enough, the more difficult
the part the better he is--I like his Lear), and a man who has always been associated with
high endeavor, Frank Benson's name is honored all over England. He was only at the Lyceum for
this one production, but he always regarded Henry Irving as the source of the good work that
he did afterwards.

"Thank you very much," he wrote to me after his first night as Paris, "for writing me a word
of encouragement.... I was very much ashamed and disgusted with myself all Sunday for my poverty-stricken
and thin performance.... I think I was a little better last night. Indeed I was much touched
at the kindness and sympathy of all the company and their efforts to make the awkward new boy
feel at home.... I feel doubly grateful to you and Mr. Irving for the light you shed from the
lamp of art on life now that I begin to understand the labor and weariness the process of trimming
the Lamp entails."

X

LYCEUM PRODUCTIONS (continued)

"MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING" TO "FAUST"

Our success with "The Belle's Stratagem" had pointed to comedy, to Beatrice and Benedick in
particular, because in Mrs. Cowley's old comedy we had had some scenes of the same type. I
have already told of my first appearance as Beatrice at Leeds, and said that I never played
the part so well again; but the Lyceum production was a great success, and Beatrice a great
personal success for me. It is only in high comedy that people seem to know what I am driving at!

The stage-management of the play was very good; the scenery nothing out of the ordinary except
for the Church Scene. There was no question that it was a church, hardly a question that old
Mead was a Friar. Henry had the art of making ceremonies seem very real.

This was the first time that we engaged a singer from outside. Mr. Jack Robertson came into
the cast to sing "Sigh no more, ladies," and made an enormous success.

Johnston Forbes-Robertson made his first appearance at the Lyceum as Claudio. I had not acted
with him since "The Wandering Heir," and his improvement as an actor in the ten years that
had gone by since then was marvelous. I had once said to him that he had far better stick to
his painting and become an artist instead of an actor. His Claudio made me "take it back."
It was beautiful. I have seen many young actors play the part since then, but not one of them
made it anywhere near as convincing. Forbes-Robertson put a touch of Leontes into it, a part
which some years later he was to play magnificently, and through the subtle indication of consuming
and insanely suspicious jealousy made Claudio's offensive conduct explicable at least. On the
occasion of the performance at Drury Lane which the theatrical profession organized in 1906
in honor of my Stage Jubilee, one of the items in the programme was a scene from "Much Ado
about Nothing." I then played Beatrice for the last time and Forbes-Robertson played his old
part of Claudio.

During the run Henry commissioned him to paint a picture of the Church Scene, which was hung
in the Beefsteak Room. The engravings printed from it were at one time very popular. When Johnston
was asked why he had chosen that particular moment in the Church Scene, he answered modestly
that it was the only moment when he could put himself as Claudio at the "side"! Some of the
other portraits in the picture are Henry Irving, Terriss, who played Don Pedro; Jessie Millward
as Hero, Mr. Glenny as Don John, Miss Amy Coleridge, Miss Harwood, Mr. Mead, and his daughter
"Charley" Mead, a pretty little thing who was one of the pages.

The Lyceum company was not a permanent one. People used to come, learn something, go away,
and come back at a larger salary! Miss Emery left for a time, and then returned to play Hero
and other parts. I liked her Hero better than Miss Millward's. Miss Millward had a sure touch;
strength, vitality, interest; but somehow she was commonplace in the part.

Henry used to spend hours and hours teaching people. I used to think impatiently: "Acting can't
be taught." Gradually I learned to modify this conviction and to recognize that there are two
classes of actors:

1. Those who can only do what they are taught.

2. Those who cannot be taught, but can be helped by suggestion to work out things for themselves.

Henry said to me once: "What makes a popular actor? Physique! What makes a great actor? Imagination
and sensibility." I tried to believe it. Then I thought to myself: "Henry himself is not quite
what is understood by 'an actor of physique,' and certainly he is popular. And that he is a
great actor I know. He certainly has both imagination and 'sense and sensibility.'" After the
lapse of years I begin to wonder if Henry was ever really popular. It was natural to most people
to dislike his acting--they found it queer, as some find the painting of Whistler--but he forced
them, almost against their will and nature, out of dislike into admiration. They had to come
up to him, for never would he go down to them. This is not popularity.

Brain allied with the instinct of the actor tells, but stupidity allied with the instinct of
the actor tells more than brain alone. I have sometimes seen a clever man who was not a born
actor play a small part with his brains, and have felt that the cleverness was telling more
with the actors on the stage than with the audience.

Terriss, like Mrs. Pritchard, if we are to believe what Dr. Johnson said of her, often did
not know what on earth he was talking about! One morning we went over and over one scene in
"Much Ado"--at least a dozen times I should think--and each time when Terriss came to the speech
beginning:

     "What needs the bridge much broader than the flood,"

he managed to give a different emphasis. First it would be:

"What! Needs the bridge much broader than the flood!" Then:

"What needs the bridge much broader than the flood."

After he had been floundering about for some time, Henry said:

"Terriss, what's the meaning of that?"

"Oh, get along, Guv'nor, you know!"

Henry laughed. He never could be angry with Terriss, not even when he came to rehearsal full
of absurd excuses. One day, however, he was so late that it was past a joke, and Henry spoke
to him sharply.

"I think you'll be sorry you've spoken to me like this, Guv'nor," said Terriss, casting down
his eyes.

"Now no hanky-panky tricks, Terriss."

"Tricks, Guv'nor! I think you'll regret having said that when you hear that my poor mother
passed away early this morning."

And Terriss wept.

Henry promptly gave him the day off. A few weeks later, when Terriss and I were looking through
the curtain at the audience just before the play began, he said to me gaily:

"See that dear old woman sitting in the fourth row of stalls--that's my dear old mother."

The wretch had quite forgotten that he had killed her!

He was the only person who ever ventured to "cheek" Henry, yet he never gave offense, not even
when he wrote a letter of this kind:

"My dear Guv.,--

"I hope you are enjoying yourself, and in the best of health. I very much want to play 'Othello'
with you next year (don't laugh). Shall I study it up, and will you do it with me on tour if
possible? Say yes, and lighten the drooping heart of yours sincerely,

"WILL TERRISS."

I have never seen any one at all like Terriss, and my father said the same. The only actor
of my father's day, he used to tell me, who had a touch of the same insouciance and lawlessness
was Leigh Murray, a famous jeune premier.

One night he came into the theater soaked from head to foot.

"Is it raining, Terriss?" said some one who noticed that he was wet.

"Looks like it, doesn't it?" said Terriss carelessly.

Later it came out that he had jumped off a penny steamboat into the Thames and saved a little
girl's life. It was pretty brave, I think.

Mr. Pinero, who was no longer a member of the Lyceum company when "Much Ado" was produced,
wrote to Henry after the first night that it was "as perfect a representation of a Shakespearean
play as I conceive to be possible. I think," he added, "that the work at your theater does
so much to create new playgoers--which is what we want, far more I fancy than we want new theaters
and perhaps new plays."

A playgoer whose knowledge of the English stage extended over a period of fifty-five years,
wrote another nice letter about "Much Ado" which was passed on to me because it had some ridiculously
nice things about me in it.

SAVILE CLUB, January 13, 1883.

"My dear Henry,--

"I were an imbecile ingrate if I did not hasten to give you my warmest thanks for the splendid
entertainment of last night. Such a performance is not a grand entertainment merely, or a glorious
pastime, although it was all that. It was, too, an artistic display of the highest character,
elevating in the vast audience their art instinct--as well as purifying any developed art in
the possession of individuals.

"I saw the Kean revivals of 1855-57, and I suppose 'The Winter's Tale' was the best of the
lot. But it did not approach last night....

"I was impressed more strongly than ever with the fact that the plays of Shakespeare were meant
to be acted. The man who thinks that he can know Shakespeare by reading him is a shallow ass.
The best critic and scholar would have been carried out of himself last night into the poet's
heart, his mind-spirit.... The Terry was glorious.... The scenes in which she appeared--and
she was in eight out of the sixteen--reminded me of nothing but the blessed sun that not only
beautifies but creates. But she never acts so well as when I am there to see! That is a real
lover's sentiment, and all lovers are vain men.

"Terriss has 'come on' wonderfully, and his Don Pedro is princely and manful.

"I have thus set down, my dear Irving, one or two things merely to show that my gratitude to
you is not that of a blind gratified idiot, but of one whose intimate personal knowledge of
the English stage entitles him to say what he owes to you."

"I am

"Affectionately yours,

"A.J. DUFFIELD."

In 1891, when we revived "Much Ado," Henry's Benedick was far more brilliant than it was at
first. In my diary, January 5, 1891, I wrote:

     "Revival of 'Much Ado about Nothing.' Went most brilliantly. Henry
     has vastly improved upon his old rendering of Benedick. Acts
     larger now--not so 'finicking.' His model (of manner) is the Duke
     of Sutherland. VERY good. I did some parts better, I think--made
     Beatrice a nobler woman. Yet I failed to please myself in the
     Cathedral Scene."

     Two days later.--"Played the Church Scene all right at last. More
     of a blaze. The little scene in the garden, too, I did better (in
     the last act). Beatrice has confessed her love, and is now
     softer. Her voice should be beautiful now, breaking out into
     playful defiance now and again, as of old. The last scene, too, I
     made much more merry, happy, soft."

     January 8.--"I must make Beatrice more flashing at first, and
     softer afterwards. This will be an improvement upon my old
     reading of the part. She must be always merry and by turns
     scornful, tormenting, vexed, self-communing, absent, melting,
     teasing, brilliant, indignant, sad-merry, thoughtful, withering,
     gentle, humorous, and gay, Gay, Gay! Protecting (to Hero),
     motherly, very intellectual--a gallant creature and complete in
     mind and feature."

After a run of two hundred and fifty nights, "Much Ado," although it was still drawing fine
houses, was withdrawn as we were going to America in the autumn (of 1883) and Henry wanted
to rehearse the plays that we were to do in the States by reviving them in London at the close
of the summer season. It was during these revivals that I played Janette in "The Lyons Mail"--not
a big part, and not well suited to me, but I played it well enough to support my theory that
whatever I have not been, I have been a useful actress.

I always associate "The Lyons Mail" with old Mead, whose performance of the father, Jerome
Lesurques, was one of the most impressive things that this fine actor ever did with us. (Before
Henry was ever heard of, Mead had played Hamlet at Drury Lane!) Indeed when he "broke up,"
Henry put aside "The Lyons Mail" for many years because he dreaded playing Lesurques' scene
with his father without Mead.

In the days just before the break-up, which came about because Mead was old, and--I hope there
is no harm in saying of him what can be said of many men who have done finely in the world--too
fond of "the wine when it is red," Henry use to suffer great anxiety in the scene, because
he never knew what Mead was going to do or say next. When Jerome Lesurques is forced to suspect
his son of crime, he has a line:

     "Am I mad, or dreaming? Would I were."

Mead one night gave a less poetic reading:

     "Am I mad or drunk? Would I were!"

It will be remembered by those who saw the play that Lesurques, an innocent man, will not commit
the Roman suicide of honor at his father's bidding, and refuses to take up his pistol from
the table. "What! you refuse to die by your own hands, do you?" says the elder Lesurques. "Then
die like a dog by mine!" (producing a pistol from his pocket).

One night, after having delivered the line with his usual force and impressiveness, Mead, after
prolonged fumbling in his coat-tail pockets, added another:

"D---, b----! God bless my soul! Where's the pistol? I haven't got the pistol!"

The last scene in the eventful history of "Meadisms" in "'The Lyons Mail" was when Mead came
on to the stage in his own top-hat, went over to the sofa, and lay down, apparently for a nap!
Not a word could Henry get from him, and Henry had to play the scene by himself. He did it
in this way:

"You say, father, that I," etc. "I answer you that it is false!"

Mead had a remarkable foot. Norman Forbes called it an architectural foot. Bunions and gout
combined to give it a gargoyled effect! One night, I forget whether it was in this play or
another, Henry, pawing the ground with his foot before an "exit"--one of the mannerisms which
his imitators delighted to burlesque--came down on poor old Mead's foot, bunion gargoyles and
all! Hardly had Mead stopped cursing under his breath than on came Tyars, and brought down
his weight heavily on the same foot. Directly Tyars came off the stage he looked for Mead in
the wings and offered an apology.

"I beg your pardon--I'm really awfully sorry, Mead."

"Sorry! sorry!" the old man snorted. "It's a d----d conspiracy!"

It was the dignity and gravity of Mead which made everything he said so funny. I am afraid
that those who never knew him will wonder where the joke comes in.

I forget what year he left us for good, but in a letter of Henry's dated September, 1888, written
during a provincial tour of "Faust," when I was ill and my sister Marion played Margaret instead
of me, I find this allusion to him:

"Wenman does the Kitchen Witch now (I altered it this morning) and Mead the old one--the climber.
Poor old chap, he'll not climb much longer!"

This was one of the least successful of Henry's Shakespearean productions. Terriss looked all
wrong as Orsino; many other people were miscast. Henry said to me a few years later when he
thought of doing "The Tempest," "I can't do it without three great comedians. I ought never
to have attempted 'Twelfth Night' without them."

I don't think that I played Viola nearly as well as my sister Kate. Her "I am the man" was
very delicate and charming. I overdid that. My daughter says: "Well, you were far better than
any Viola that I have seen since, but you were too simple to make a great hit in it. I think
that if you had played Rosalind the public would have thought you too simple in that. Somehow
people expect these parts to be acted in a 'principal boy' fashion, with sparkle and animation."

We had the curious experience of being "booed" on the first night. It was not a comedy audience,
and I think the rollickings of Toby Belch and his fellows were thought "low." Then people were
put out by Henry's attempt to reserve the pit. He thought that the public wanted it. When he
found that it was against their wishes he immediately gave in. His pride was the service of
the public.

His speech after the hostile reception of "Twelfth Night" was the only mistake that I ever
knew him make. He was furious, and showed it. Instead of accepting the verdict, he trounced
the first-night audience for giving it. He simply could not understand it!

My old friend Rose Leclercq, who was in Charles Kean's company at the Princess's when I made
my first appearance upon the stage, joined the Lyceum company to play Olivia. Strangely enough
she had lost the touch for the kind of part. She, who had made one of her early successes as
the spirit of Astarte in "Manfred," was known to a later generation of playgoers as the aristocratic
dowager of stately presence and incisive repartee. Her son, Fuller Mellish, was also in the
cast as Curio, and when we played "Twelfth Night" in America was promoted to the part of Sebastian,
my double. In London my brother Fred played it. Directly he walked on to the stage, looking
as like me as possible, yet a man all over, he was a success. I don't think that I have ever
seen anything so unmistakable and instantaneous.

In America "Twelfth Night" was liked far better than in London, but I never liked it. I thought
our production dull, lumpy and heavy. Henry's Malvolio was fine and dignified, but not good
for the play, and I never could help associating my Viola with physical pain. On the first
night I had a bad thumb--I thought it was a whitlow--and had to carry my arm in a sling. It
grew worse every night, and I felt so sick and faint from pain that I played most of my scenes
sitting in a chair. One night Dr. Stoker, Bram Stoker's brother, came round between the scenes,
and, after looking at my thumb, said:

"Oh, that'll be all right. I'll cut it for you."

He lanced it then and there, and I went on with my part for that night. George Stoker, who
was just going off to Ireland, could not see the job through, but the next day I was in for
the worst illness I ever had in my life. It was blood-poisoning, and the doctors were in doubt
for a little as to whether they would not have to amputate my arm. They said that if George
Stoker had not lanced the thumb that minute, I should have lost my arm.

A disagreeable incident in connection with my illness was that a member of my profession made
it the occasion of an unkind allusion (in a speech at the Social Science Congress) to "actresses
who feign illness and have straw laid down before their houses, while behind the drawn blinds
they are having riotous supper-parties, dancing the can-can and drinking champagne." Upon being
asked for "name," the speaker would neither assert nor deny that it was Ellen Terry (whose
poor arm at the time was as big as her waist, and that has never been very small!) that she meant.

I think we first heard of the affair on our second voyage to America, during which I was still
so ill that they thought I might never see Quebec, and Henry wrote a letter to the press--a
"scorcher." He showed it to me on the boat. When I had read it, I tore it up and threw the
bits into the sea.

"It hasn't injured me in any way," I said. "Any answer would be undignified."

Henry did what I wished in the matter, but, unlike me, whose heart I am afraid is of wax--no
impression lasts long--he never forgot it, and never forgave. If the speech-maker chanced to
come into a room where he was--he walked out. He showed the same spirit in the last days of
his life, long after our partnership had come to an end. A literary club, not a hundred yards
from Hyde Park Corner, "blackballed"' me (although I was qualified for election under the rules)
for reasons with which I was never favored. The committee, a few months later, wished Henry
Irving to be the guest of honor at one of the club dinners. The honor was declined.

The first night of "Olivia" at the Lyceum was about the only comfortable first night that I
have ever had! I was familiar with the part, and two of the cast, Terriss and Norman Forbes,
were the same as at the Court, which made me feel all the more at home. Henry left a great
deal of the stage-management to us, for he knew that he could not improve on Mr. Hare's production.
Only he insisted on altering the last act, and made a bad matter worse. The division into two
scenes wasted time, and nothing was gained by it. Never obstinate, Henry saw his mistake and
restored the original end after a time. It was weak and unsatisfactory but not pretentious
and bad like the last act he presented at the first performance.

We took the play too slowly at the Lyceum. That was often a fault there. Because Henry was
slow, the others took their time from him, and the result was bad.

The lovely scene of the vicarage parlor, in which we used a harpsichord and were accused of
pedantry for our pains, did not look so well at the Lyceum as at the Court. The stage was too
big for it.

The critics said that I played Olivia better at the Lyceum, but I did not feel this myself.

At first Henry did not rehearse the Vicar at all well. One day when he was stamping his foot
very much, as if he was Matthias in "The Bells," my little Edy, who was a terrible child and
a wonderful critic, said:

"Don't go on like that, Henry. Why don't you talk as you do to me and Teddy? At home you are
the Vicar."

The child's frankness did not offend Henry, because it was illuminating. A blind man had changed
his Shylock; a little child changed his Vicar. When the first night came he gave a simple,
lovable performance. Many people now understood and liked him as they had never done before.
One of the things I most admired in it was his sense of the period.

In this, as in other plays, he used to make his entrance in the skin of the part. No need for
him to rattle a ladder at the side to get up excitement and illusion as Macready is said to
have done. He walked on, and was the simple-minded old clergyman, just as he had walked on
a prince in "Hamlet," a king in "Charles I.," and a saint in "Becket."

A very handsome woman, descended from Mrs. Siddons and looking exactly like her, played the
gipsy in "Olivia." The likeness was of no use, because the possessor of it had no talent. What
a pity!

"Olivia" has always been a family play. Edy and Ted walked on the stage for the first time
in the Court "Olivia." In later years Ted played Moses and Edy made her first appearance in
a speaking part as Polly Flamborough, and has since played both Sophia and the Gipsy. My brother
Charlie's little girl Beatrice made her first appearance as Bill, my sister Floss played Olivia
on a provincial tour, and my sister Marion played it at the Lyceum when I was ill.

I saw Floss play it, and took from her a lovely and sincere bit of "business." In the third
act, where the Vicar has found his erring daughter and has come to take her away from the inn,
I had always hesitated at my entrance as if I were not quite sure what reception my father
would give me after what had happened. Floss in the same situation came running in and went
straight to her father, quite sure of his love if not of his forgiveness.

I did not take some business which Marion did on Terriss's suggestion. Where Thornhill tells
Olivia that she is not his wife, I used to thrust him away with both hands as I said--"Devil!"

"It's very good, Nell, very fine," said Terriss to me, "but believe me, you miss a great effect
there. You play it grandly, of course, but at that moment you miss it. As you say 'Devil!'
you ought to strike me full in the face."

"Oh, don't be silly, Terriss," I said, "she's not a pugilist."

Of course I saw, apart from what was dramatically fit, what would happen.

However Marion, very young, very earnest, very dutiful, anxious to please Terriss, listened
eagerly to the suggestion during an understudy rehearsal.

"No one could play this part better than your sister Nell," said Terriss to the attentive Marion,
"but as I always tell her, she does miss one great effect. When Olivia says 'Devil!' she ought
to hit me bang in the face."

"Thank you for telling me," said Marion gratefully.

"It will be much more effective," said Terriss.

It was. When the night came for Marion to play the part, she struck out, and Terriss had to
play the rest of the scene with a handkerchief held to his bleeding nose!

I think it was as Olivia that Eleonora Duse first saw me act. She had thought of playing the
part herself some time, but she said: "Never now!" No letter about my acting ever gave me the
same pleasure as this from her:

"Madame,--Avec Olivia vous m'avez donné bonheur et peine. Bonheur part votre art qui est noble
et sincère ... peine car je sens la tristesse au coeur quand je vois une belle et généreuse
nature de femme, donner son âme à l'art--comme vous le faites--quand c'est la vie même, votre
coeur même qui parle tendrement, douleureusement, noblement sous votre jeu. Je ne puis me débarrasser
d'une certaine tristesse quand je vois des artistes si nobles et hauts tels que vous et Irving....
Si vous êtes si forts de soumettre (avec un travail continu) la vie à l'art, il faut done vous
admirer comme des forces de la nature même qui auraient pourtant le droit de vivre pour elles-mêmes
et non pour la foule. Je n'ose pas vous déranger, Madame, et d'ailleurs j'ai tant à faire aussi
qu'il m'est impossible de vous dire de vive voix tout le grand plaisir que vous m'avez donné,
mais puisque j'ai senti votre coeur, veuillez, chère Madame, croire au mien qui ne demande
pas mieux dans cet instant que de vous admirer et de vous le dire tant bien que mal d'une manière
quelconque. Bien à vous.

"E. DUSE."

When I wrote to Madame Duse the other day to ask her permission to publish this much-prized
letter, she answered:

BUENOS AYRES, Septembre 11, 1907.

"Chère Ellen Terry,--

"Au milieu du travail en Amérique, je reçois votre lettre envoyée à Florence.

"Vous me demandez de publier mon ancienne lettre amicale. Oui, chère Ellen Terry; ce que j'ai
donné vous appartient; ce que j'ai dit, je le peux encore, et je vous aime et admire comme
toujours....

"J'espère que vous accepterez cette ancienne lettre que j'ai rendue plus claire et un peu mieux
écrite. Vous en serez contente avec moi car, ainsi faisant, j'ai eu le moyen de vous dire que
je vous aime et de vous le dire deux fois.

"A vous de coeur,

"E. DUSE."

Dear, noble Eleanora Duse, great woman, great artist--I can never appreciate you in words,
but I store the delight that you have given me by your work, and the personal kindness that
you have shown me, in the treasure-house of my heart!

When I celebrated my stage jubilee you traveled all the way from Italy to support me on the
stage at Drury Lane. When you stood near me, looking so beautiful with wings in your hair,
the wings of glory they seemed to me, I could not thank you, but we kissed each other and you
understood!

"Clap-trap" was the verdict passed by many on the Lyceum "Faust," yet Margaret was the part
I liked better than any other--outside Shakespeare. I played it beautifully sometimes. The
language was often very commonplace--not nearly as poetic or dramatic as that of "Charles I."--but
the character was all right--simple, touching, sublime.

The Garden Scene I know was unsatisfactory. It was a bad, weak love-scene, but George Alexander
as Faust played it admirably. Indeed he always acted like an angel with me; he was so malleable,
ready to do anything. He was launched into the part at very short notice, after H.B. Conway's
failure on the first night. Poor Conway! It was Coghlan as Shylock all over again.

Henry called a rehearsal the next day--on Sunday, I think. The company stood about in groups
on the stage while Henry walked up and down, speechless, but humming a tune occasionally, always
a portentous sign with him. The scene set was the Brocken Scene, and Conway stood at the top
of the slope as far away from Henry as he could get! He looked abject. His handsome face was
very red, his eyes full of tears. He was terrified at the thought of what was going to happen.
The actor was summoned to the office, and presently Loveday came out and said that Mr. George
Alexander would play Faust the following night. Alec had been wonderful as Valentine the night
before, and as Faust he more than justified Henry's belief in him. After that he never looked
back. He had come to the Lyceum for the first time in 1882, an unknown quantity from a stock
company in Glasgow, to play Caleb Decie in "The Two Roses." He then left us for a time, returned
for "Faust," and remained in the Lyceum company for some years playing all Terriss's parts.

Alexander had the romantic quality which was lacking in Terriss, but there was a kind of shy
modesty about him which handicapped him when he played Squire Thornhill in "Olivia." "Be more
dashing, Alec!" I used to say to him. "Well, I do my best," he said. "At the hotels I chuck
all the barmaids under the chin, and pretend I'm a dog of a fellow for the sake of this part!"
Conscientious, dear, delightful Alec! No one ever deserved success more than he did and used
it better when it came, as the history of the St. James's Theater under his management proves.
He had the good luck to marry a wife who was clever as well as charming, and could help him.

The original cast of "Faust" was never improved upon. What Martha was ever so good as Mrs.
Stirling? The dear old lady's sight had failed since "Romeo and Juliet," but she was very clever
at concealing it. When she let Mephistopheles in at the door, she used to drop her work on
the floor so that she could find her way back to her chair. I never knew why she dropped it--she
used to do it so naturally with a start when Mephistopheles knocked at the door--until one
night when it was in my way and I picked it up, to the confusion of poor Mrs. Stirling, who
nearly walked into the orchestra.

"Faust" was abused a good deal as a pantomime, a distorted caricature of Goethe, and a thoroughly
inartistic production. But it proved the greatest of all Henry's financial successes. The Germans
who came to see it, oddly enough, did not scorn it nearly as much as the English who were sensitive
on behalf of the Germans, and the Goethe Society wrote a tribute to Henry Irving after his
death, acknowledging his services to Goethe!

It is a curious paradox in the theater that the play for which every one has a good word is
often the play which no one is going to see, while the play which is apparently disliked and
run down is crowded every night.

Our preparations for the production of "Faust" included a delightful "grand tour" of Germany.
Henry, with his accustomed royal way of doing things, took a party which included my daughter
Edy, Mr. and Mrs. Comyns Carr, and Mr. Hawes Craven, who was to paint the scenery. We bought
nearly all the properties used in "Faust" in Nuremberg, and many other things which we did
not use, that took Henry's fancy. One beautifully carved escutcheon, the finest armorial device
I ever saw, he bought at this time and presented it in after years to the famous American connoisseur,
Mrs. Jack Gardiner. It hangs now in one of the rooms of her palace at Boston.

It was when we were going in the train along one of the most beautiful stretches of the Rhine
that Sally Holland, who accompanied us as my maid, said:--

"Uncommon pretty scenery, dear, I must say!"

When we laughed uncontrollably, she added:

"Well, dear, I think so!"

During the run of "Faust" Henry visited Oxford and gave his address on "Four Actors" (Burbage,
Betterton, Garrick, Kean). He met there one of the many people who had recently been attacking
him on the ground of too long runs and too much spectacle. He wrote me an amusing account of
the duel between them:

     "I had supper last night at New College after the affair. A---- was
     there, and I had it out with him--to the delight of all.

     "'Too much decoration,' etc., etc.

     "I asked him what there was in 'Faust' in the matter of
     appointments, etc., that he would like left out?'

     "Answer: Nothing.

     "'Too long runs.'

     "'You, sir, are a poet,' I said. 'Perhaps it may be my privilege
     some day to produce a play of yours. Would you like it to have a
     long run or a short one?' (Roars of laughter.)

     "Answer: 'Well--er--well, of course, Mr. Irving, you--well--well, a
     short run, of course for art, but--'

     "'Now, sir, you're on oath,' said I. 'Suppose that the fees were
     rolling in £10 and more a night--would you rather the play were a
     failure or a success?'

     "'Well, well, as you put it--I must say--er--I would rather my
     play had a long run!'

     "A---- floored!

     "He has all his life been writing articles running down good work
     and crying up the impossible, and I was glad to show him up a bit!

     "The Vice-Chancellor made a most lovely speech after the
     address--an eloquent and splendid tribute to the stage.

     "Bourchier presented the address of the 'Undergrads.' I never saw a
     young man in a greater funk--because, I suppose, he had imitated me
     so often!

     "From the address:

     "'We have watched with keen and enthusiastic interest the fine
     intellectual quality of all these representations from Hamlet to
     Mephistopheles with which you have enriched the contemporary stage.
     To your influence we owe deeper knowledge and more reverent study
     of the master mind of Shakespeare.'

     "All very nice indeed!"

I never cared much for Henry's Mephistopheles--a twopence colored part, anyway. Of course he
had his moments--he had them in every part--but they were few. One of them was in the Prologue,
when he wrote in the student's book, "Ye shall be as gods knowing good and evil." He never
looked at the book, and the nature of the spirit appeared suddenly in a most uncanny fashion.
Another was in the Spinning-wheel Scene when Faust defies Mephistopheles, and he silences him
with, "I am a spirit." Henry looked to grow a gigantic height--to hover over the ground instead
of walking on it. It was terrifying.

I made valiant efforts to learn to spin before I played Margaret. My instructor was Mr. Albert
Fleming, who, at the suggestion of Ruskin, had recently revived hand-spinning and hand-weaving
in the North of England. I had always hated that obviously "property" spinning-wheel in the
opera, and Margaret's unmarketable thread. My thread always broke, and at last I had to "fake"
my spinning to a certain extent; but at least I worked my wheel right, and gave an impression
that I could spin my pound of thread a day with the best.

Two operatic stars did me the honor to copy my Margaret dress--Madame Albani and Madame Melba.
It was rather odd, by the way, that many mothers who took their daughters to see the opera
of "Faust" would not bring them to see the Lyceum play. One of these mothers was Princess Mary
of Teck, a constant patron of most of our plays.

Other people "missed the music." The popularity of an opera will often kill a play, although
the play may have existed before the music was ever thought of. The Lyceum "Faust" held its
own against Gounod. I liked our incidental music to the action much better. It was taken from
many different sources and welded into an effective and beautiful whole by our clever musical
director, Mr. Meredith Ball.

In many ways "Faust" was our heaviest production. About four hundred ropes were used, each
rope with a name. The list of properties and instructions to the carpenters became a joke among
the theater staff. When Henry first took "Faust" into the provinces, the head carpenter at
Liverpool, Myers by name, being something of a humorist, copied out the list on a long thin
sheet of paper, which rolled up like a royal proclamation. Instead of "God save the Queen!"
he wrote at the foot, with many flourishes: "God help Bill Myers!"

The crowded houses at "Faust" were largely composed of "repeaters," as Americans call those
charming playgoers who come to see a play again and again. We found favor with the artists
and musicians too, even in Faust! Here is a nice letter I got during the run (it was a long
one) from that gifted singer and good woman, Madame Antoinette Sterling:--

"My dear Miss Terry,--

"I was quite as disappointed as yourself that you were not at St. James's Hall last Monday
for my concert.... Jean Ingelow said she enjoyed the afternoon very much....

"I wonder if you would like to come to luncheon some day and have a little chat with her? But
perhaps you already know her. I love her dearly. She has one fault--she never goes to the theater.
Oh my! What she misses, poor thing, poor thing! We have already seen 'Faust' twice, and are
going again soon, and shall take the George Macdonalds this time. The Holman Hunts were delighted.
He is one of the most interesting and clever men I have ever met, and she is very charming
and clever too. How beautifully plain you write! Give me the recipe.

"With many kind greetings,

"Believe me sincerely yours,

"ANTOINETTE STERLING MACKINLAY."

My girl Edy was one of the angels in the vision in the last act of "Faust," an event which
Henry commemorated in a little rhyme that he sent me on Valentine's Day with some beautiful
flowers:

    "White and red roses,
    Sweet and fresh posies,
    One bunch for Edy, Angel of mine--
    One bunch for Nell, my dear Valentine."

Mr. Toole ran a burlesque on the Lyceum "Faust," called "Faust-and-Loose." Henry did not care
for burlesques as a rule. He thought Fred Leslie's exact imitation of him, face, spectacles,
voice--everything was like Henry except the ballet-skirt--in the worst taste. But everything
that Toole did was to him adorable. Marie Linden gave a really clever imitation of me as Marguerite.
She and her sister Laura both had the trick of taking me off. I recognized the truth of Laura's
caricature in the burlesque of "The Vicar of Wakefield" when as Olivia she made her entrance,
leaping impulsively over a stile!

There was an absurd chorus of girl "mashers" in "Faust-and-Loose," dressed in tight black satin
coats, who besides dancing and singing had lines in unison, such as "No, no!" "We will!" As
one of these girls Violet Vanbrugh made her first appearance on the stage. In her case "we
will!" proved prophetic. It was her plucky "I will get on" which finally landed her in her
present successful position.

Violet Barnes was the daughter of Prebendary Barnes of Exeter, who, when he found his daughter
stage-struck, behaved far more wisely than most parents. He gave her £100 and sent her to London
with her old nurse to look after her, saying that if she really "meant business" she would
find an engagement before the £100 was gone. Violet had inherited some talent from her mother,
who was a very clever amateur actress, and the whole family were fond of getting up entertainments.
But Violet didn't know quite how far £100 would go, or wouldn't go. I happened to call on her
at her lodgings near Baker Street one afternoon, and found her having her head washed, and
crying bitterly all the time! She had come to the end of the £100, she had not got an engagement,
and thought she would have to go home defeated. There was something funny in the tragic situation.
Vi was sitting on the floor, drying her hair, crying, and drinking port wine to cure a cold
in her head!

I told her not to be a goose, but to cheer up and come and stay with me until something turned
up. We packed the old nurse back to Devonshire. Violet came and stayed with me, and in due
course something did turn up. Mr. Toole came to dinner, and Violet, acting on my instructions
to ask every one she saw for an engagement, asked Mr. Toole! He said, "That's all right, my
dear. Of course. Come down and see me to-morrow." Dear old Toole! The kindliest of men! Violet
was with him for some time, and played at his theater in Mr. Barrie's first piece "Walker London."
Her sister Irene, Seymour Hicks, and Mary Ansell (now Mrs. Barrie) were all in the cast.

This was all I did to "help" Violet Vanbrugh, now Mrs. Arthur Bourchier and one of our best
actresses, in her stage career. She helped herself, as most people do who get on. I am afraid
that I have discouraged more stage aspirants than I have encouraged. Perhaps I have snubbed
really talented people, so great is my horror of girls taking to the stage as a profession
when they don't realize what they are about. I once told an elderly aspirant that it was quite
useless for any one to go on the stage who had not either great beauty or great talent. She
wrote saying that my letter had been a great relief to her, as now she was not discouraged.
"I have both."

There is one actress on the English stage whom I did definitely encourage, of whose talent
I was certain.

When my daughter was a student at the Royal Academy of Music, Dr. (now Sir Alexander) Mackenzie
asked me to distribute the medals to the Elocution Class at the end of the term. I was quite
"new to the job," and didn't understand the procedure. No girl, I have learned since, can be
given the gold medal until she has won both the bronze and the silver medals--that is, until
she has been at the Academy three years. I was for giving the gold medalists, who only wanted
certificates, bronze medals; and of one young girl who was in her first year and only entitled
to a bronze medal, I said: "Oh, she must have the gold medal, of course!"

She was a queer-looking child, handsome, with a face suggesting all manner of possibilities.
When she stood up to read the speech from "Richard II." she was nervous, but courageously stood
her ground. She began slowly, and with a most "fetching" voice, to think out the words. You
saw her think them, heard her speak them. It was so different from the intelligent elocution,
the good recitation, but bad impersonation of the others! "A pathetic face, a passionate voice,
a brain," I thought to myself. It must have been at this point that the girl flung away the
book and began to act, in an undisciplined way, of course, but with such true emotion, such
intensity, that the tears came to my eyes. The tears came to her eyes too. We both wept, and
then we embraced, and then we wept again. It was an easy victory for her. She was incomparably
better than any one. "She has to work," I wrote in my diary that day. "Her life must be given
to it, and then she will--well, she will achieve just as high as she works." Lena Pocock was
the girl's name, but she changed it to Lena Ashwell when she went on the stage.

In the days of the elocution class there was still some idea of her becoming a singer, but
I strongly advised the stage, and wrote to my friend J. Comyns Carr, who was managing the Comedy
Theater, that I knew a girl with "supreme talent" whom he ought to engage. Lena was engaged.
After that she had her fight for success, but she went steadily forward.

Henry Irving has often been attacked for not preferring Robert Louis Stevenson's "Macaire"
to the version which he actually produced in 1883. It would have been hardly more unreasonable
to complain of his producing "Hamlet" in preference to Mr. Gilbert's "Rosencrantz and Guildenstern."
Stevenson's "Macaire" may have all the literary quality that is claimed for it, although I
personally think Stevenson was only making a delightful idiot of himself in it. Anyhow, it
is frankly a burlesque, a skit, a satire on the real Macaire. The Lyceum was not a burlesque
house! Why should Henry have done it?

It was funny to see Toole and Henry rehearsing together for "Macaire." Henry was always plotting
to be funny. When Toole as Jacques Strop hid the dinner in his pocket, Henry, after much labor,
thought of his hiding the plate inside his waistcoat. There was much laughter later on when
Macaire, playfully tapping Strop with his stick, cracked the plate, and the pieces fell out!
Toole hadn't to bother about such subtleties, and Henry's deep-laid plans for getting a laugh
must have seemed funny to dear Toole, who had only to come on and say "Whoop!" and the audience
roared!

Henry's death as Macaire was one of a long list of splendid deaths. Macaire knows the game
is up, and makes a rush for the French windows at the back of the stage. The soldiers on the
stage shoot him before he gets away. Henry did not drop, but turned round, swaggered impudently
down to the table, leaned on it, then suddenly rolled over, dead.

Henry's production of "Werner" for one matinée was to do some one a good turn, and when Henry
did a "good turn," he did it magnificently.[1] We rehearsed the play as carefully as if we
were in for a long run. Beautiful dresses were made for me by my friend Alice Carr. But when
we had given that one matinée, they were put away for ever. The play may be described as gloom,
gloom, gloom. It was worse than "The Iron Chest."

[Footnote 1: From my Diary, June 1, 1887.--"Westland-Marston Benefit at the Lyceum. A triumphant
success entirely due to the genius and admirable industry and devotion of H.I., for it is just
the dullest play to read as ever was! He made it intensely interesting."]

While Henry was occupying himself with "Werner," I was pleasing myself with "The Amber Heart,"
a play by Alfred Calmour, a young man who was at this time Wills's secretary. I wanted to do
it, not only to help Calmour, but because I believed in the play and liked the part of Ellaline.
I had thought of giving a matinée of it at some other theater, but Henry, who at first didn't
like my doing it at all, said: "You must do it at the Lyceum. I can't let you, or it, go out
of the theater."

So we had the matinée at the Lyceum. Mr. Willard and Mr. Beerbohm Tree were in the cast, and
it was a great success. For the first time Henry saw me act--a whole part and from the "front"
at least, for he had seen and liked scraps of my Juliet from the "side." Although he had known
me such a long time, my Ellaline seemed to come quite as a surprise. "I wish I could tell you
of the dream of beauty that you realized," he wrote after the performance. He bought the play
for me, and I continued to do it "on and off" here and in America until 1902.

Many people said that I was good but the play was bad. This was hard on Alfred Calmour. He
had created the opportunity for me, and few plays with the beauty of "The Amber Heart" have
come my way since. "He thinks it's all his doing!" said Henry. "If he only knew!" "Well, that's
the way of authors," I answered. "They imagine so much more about their work than we put into
it, that although we may seem to the outsider to be creating, to the author we are, at our
best, only doing our duty by him."

Our next production was "Macbeth." Meanwhile we had visited America three times. It is now
my intention to give some account of my tours in America, of my friends there, and of some
of the impressions that the vast, wonderful country made on me.

XI

AMERICA

THE FIRST OF EIGHT TOURS

The first time that there was any talk of my going to America was, I think, in 1874, when I
was playing in "The Wandering Heir." Dion Boucicault wanted me to go, and dazzled me with figures,
but I expect the cautious Charles Reade influenced me against accepting the engagement.

When I did go in 1883, I was thirty-five and had an assured position in my profession. It was
the first of eight tours, seven of which I went with Henry Irving. The last was in 1907 after
his death. I also went to America one summer on a pleasure trip. The tours lasted three months
at least, seven months at most. After a rough calculation, I find that I have spent not quite
five years of my life in America. Five out of sixty is not a large proportion, yet I often
feel that I am half American. This says a good deal for the hospitality of a people who can
make a stranger feel so completely at home in their midst. Perhaps it also says something for
my adaptableness!

"When we do not speak of things with a partiality full of love, what we say is not worth being
repeated." That was the answer of a courteous Frenchman who was asked for his impressions of
a country. In any case it is imprudent to give one's impressions of America. The country is
so vast and complex that even those who have amassed mountains of impressions soon find that
there still are mountains more! I have lived in New York, Boston and Chicago for a month at
a time, and have felt that to know any of these great cities even superficially would take
a year. I have become acquainted with this and that class of American, but I realize that there
are thousands of other classes that remain unknown to me.

I set out in 1882 from Liverpool on board the Britannic with the fixed conviction that I should
never, never return. For six weeks before we started, the word America had only to be breathed
to me, and I burst into floods of tears! I was leaving my children, my bullfinch, my parrot,
my "aunt" Boo, whom I never expected to see alive again, just because she said I never would;
and I was going to face the unknown dangers of the Atlantic and of a strange, barbarous land.
Our farewell performances in London had cheered me up a little--though I wept copiously at
every one--by showing us that we should be missed. Henry Irving's position seemed to be confirmed
and ratified by all that took place before his departure. The dinners he had to eat, the speeches
that he had to make and to listen to, were really terrific!

One speech at the Rabelais Club had, it was said, the longest peroration on record. It was
this kind of thing: Where is our friend Irving going? He is not going like Nares to face the
perils of the far North. He is not going like A---- to face something else. He is not going
to China, etc.,--and so on. After about the hundredth "he is not going," Lord Houghton, who
was one of the guests, grew very impatient and interrupted the orator with: "Of course he isn't!
He's going to New York by the Cunard Line. It'll take him about a week!"

Many people came to see us off at Liverpool, but I only remember seeing Mrs. Langtry and Oscar
Wilde. It was at this time that Oscar Wilde had begun to curl his hair in the manner of the
Prince Regent. "Curly hair to match the curly teeth," said some one. Oscar Wilde had ugly teeth,
and he was not proud of his mouth. He used to put his hand to his mouth when he talked so that
it should not be noticed. His brow and eyes were very beautiful.

Well, I was not "disappointed in the Atlantic," as Oscar Wilde was the first to say, though
many people have said it since without acknowledging its source.

My first voyage was a voyage of enchantment to me. The ship was laden with pig-iron, and she
rolled and rolled and rolled. She could never roll too much for me! I have always been a splendid
sailor, and I feel jolly at sea. The sudden leap from home into the wilderness of waves does
not give me any sensation of melancholy.

What I thought I was going to see when I arrived in America I hardly remember. I had a vague
idea that all American women wore red flannel shirts and carried bowie knives and that I might
be sandbagged in the street! From somewhere or other I had derived an impression that New York
was an ugly, noisy place.

Ugly! When I first saw that marvelous harbor I nearly cried--it was so beautiful. Whenever
I come now to the unequaled approach to New York I wonder what Americans must think of the
approach from the sea to London! How different are the mean, flat, marshy banks of the Thames
and the wooden toy lighthouse at Dungeness to the vast, spreading Hudson with its busy multitude
of steamboats, and ferryboats, its wharf upon wharf, and its tall statue of Liberty dominating
all the racket and bustle of the sea traffic of the world!

That was one of the few times in America when I did not miss the poetry of the past. The poetry
of the present, gigantic, colossal and enormous, made me forget it. The "sky-scrapers"--what
a brutal name it is when one comes to think of it!--so splendid in the landscape now, did not
exist in 1883, but I find it difficult to divide my early impressions from my later ones. There
was Brooklyn Bridge though, hung up high in the air like a vast spider's web.

Between 1883 and 1893 I noticed a great change in New York and other cities. In ten years they
seemed to have grown with the energy of tropical plants. But between 1893 and 1907 I saw no
evidence of such feverish increase. It is possible that the Americans are arriving at a stage
when they can no longer beat the records! There is a vast difference between one of the old
New York brownstone houses and one of the fourteen-storied buildings near the river, but between
this and the Times Square Building or the still more amazing Flat Iron Building, which is said
to oscillate at the top--it is so far from the ground--there is very little difference. I hear
that they are now beginning to build downwards into the earth, but this will not change the
appearance of New York for a long time.

I had not to endure the wooden shed in which most people landing in America have to struggle
with the Custom-house officials--a struggle as brutal as a "round in the ring," as Paul Bourget
describes it. We were taken off the Britannic in a tug, and Mr. Abbey, Laurence Barrett, and
many other friends met us--including the much-dreaded reporters.

They were not a bit dreadful, but very quick to see what kind of a man Henry was. In a minute
he was on the best of terms with them. He had on what I used to call his best "Jingle" manner--a
manner full of refinement, bonhomie, elegance and geniality.

"Have a cigar--have a cigar." That was the first remark of Henry's, which put every one at
ease. He also wanted to be at ease and have a good smoke. It was just the right merry greeting
to the press representatives of a nation whose sense of humor is far more to be relied on than
its sense of reverence.

"Now come on, all of you!" he said to the interviewers. He talked to them all in a mass and
showed no favoritism. It says much for his tact and diplomacy that he did not "put his foot
in it." The Americans are suspicious of servile adulation from a stranger, yet are very sensitive
to criticism.

"These gentlemen want to have a few words with you," said Henry to me when the reporters had
done with him. Then with a mischievous expression he whispered: "Say something pleasant! Merry
and bright!"

Merry and bright! I felt it! The sense of being a stranger entering a strange land, the rushing
sense of loneliness and foreignness was overpowering my imagination. I blew my nose hard and
tried to keep back my tears, but the first reporter said: "Can I send any message to your friends
in England?"

I answered: "Tell them I never loved 'em so much as now," and burst into tears! No wonder that
he wrote in his paper that I was "a woman of extreme nervous sensibility." Another of them
said that "my figure was spare almost to attenuation." America soon remedied that. I began
to put on flesh before I had been in the country a week, and it was during my fifth American
tour that I became really fat for the first time in my life.

When we landed I drove to the Hotel Dam, Henry to the Brevoort House. There was no Diana on
the top of the Madison Square Building then. The building did not exist, to cheer the heart
of a new arrival as the first evidence of beauty in the city. There were horse trams instead
of cable cars, but a quarter of a century has not altered the peculiarly dilapidated carriages
in which one drives from the dock, the muddy side-walks, and the cavernous holes in the cobble-paved
streets. Had the elevated railway, the first sign of power that one notices after leaving the
boat, begun to thunder through the streets? I cannot remember New York without it.

I missed then, as I miss now, the numberless hansoms of London plying in the streets for hire.
People in New York get about in the cars, unless they have their own carriages. The hired carriage
has no reason for existing, and when it does, it celebrates its unique position by charging
two dollars (8s.) for a journey which in London would not cost fifty cents (2s.)!

I cried for two hours at the Hotel Dam! Then my companion, Miss Harries, came bustling in with:
"Never mind! here's a piano!" and sat down and played "Annie Laurie" very badly until I screamed
with laughter. Before the evening came my room was like a bower of roses, and my dear friends
in America have been throwing bouquets at me in the same lavish way ever since. I had quite
cheered up when Henry came to take me to see some minstrels who were performing at the Star
Theater, the very theater where in a few days we were to open. I didn't understand many of
the jokes which the American comedians made that night, but I liked their dry, cool way of
making them. They did not "hand a lemon" or "skiddoo" in those days; American slang changes
as quickly as thieves' slang, and only "Gee!" and "Gee-whiz!" seem to be permanent.

There were very few theaters in New York when we first went there. All that part of the city
which is now "up town" did not exist, and what was then "up" is now more than "down" town.
The American stage has changed almost as much. In those days their most distinguished actors
were playing Shakespeare or old comedy, and their new plays were chiefly "imported" goods.
Even then there was a liking for local plays which showed the peculiarities of the different
States, but they were more violent and crude than now. The original American genius and the
true dramatic pleasure of the people is, I believe, in such plays, where very complete observation
of certain phases of American life and very real pictures of manners are combined with comedy
almost childlike in its naïveté. The sovereignty of the young girl which is such a marked feature
in social life is reflected in American plays.

This is by the way.

What I want to make clear is that in 1883 there was no living American drama as there is now,
that such productions of romantic plays and Shakespeare as Henry Irving brought over from England
were unknown, and that the extraordinary success of our first tours would be impossible now.
We were the first and we were pioneers, and we were new. To be new is everything in America.

Such palaces as the Hudson Theater, New York, were not dreamed of when we were at the Star,
which was, however, quite equal to any theater in London in front of the footlights. The stage
itself, the lighting appliances, and the dressing-rooms were inferior.

Henry made his first appearance in America in "The Bells." He was not at his best on the first
night, but he could be pretty good even when he was not at his best. I watched him from a box.
Nervousness made the company very slow. The audience was a splendid one--discriminating and
appreciative. We felt that the Americans wanted to like us. We felt in a few days so extraordinarily
at home. The first sensation of entering a foreign city was quickly wiped out.

The difference in atmosphere disappears directly one understands it. I kept on coming across
duplicates of "my friends in England." "How this girl reminds me of Alice." "How like that
one is to Gill!" We had transported the Lyceum three thousand miles--that was all.

On the second night in New York it was my turn. "Command yourself--this is the time to show
you can act!" I said to myself as I went on to the stage of the Star Theater, dressed as Henrietta
Maria. But I could not command myself. I played badly and cried too much in the last act. But
the people liked me, and they liked the play, perhaps because it was historical; and of history
the Americans are passionately fond. The audience took many points which had been ignored in
London. I had always thought Henry as Charles I. most moving when he made that involuntary
effort to kneel to his subject, Moray, but the Lyceum audiences never seemed to notice it.
In New York the audience burst out into the most sympathetic spontaneous applause that I have
ever heard in a theater.

I know that there are some advanced stage reformers who prefer to think applause "vulgar,"
and would suppress it in the theater if they could. If they ever succeed they will suppress
a great deal of good acting. It is said that the American actor, Edwin Forrest, once walked
down to the footlights and said to the audience very gravely and sincerely: "If you don't applaud,
I can't act," and I do sympathize with him. Applause is an instinctive, unconscious act expressing
the sympathy between actors and audience. Just as our art demands more instinct than intellect
in its exercise, so we demand of those who watch us an appreciation of the simple unconscious
kind which finds an outlet in clapping rather than the cold, intellectual approval which would
self-consciously think applause derogatory. I have yet to meet the actor who was sincere in
saying that he disliked applause.

My impression of the way the American women dressed in 1883 was not favorable. Some of them
wore Indian shawls and diamond earrings. They dressed too grandly in the street and too dowdily
in the theater. All this has changed. The stores in New York are now the most beautiful in
the world, and the women are dressed to perfection. They are as clever at the demi-toilette
as the Parisian, and the extreme neatness and smartness of their walking-gowns are very refreshing
after the floppy, blowsy, trailing dresses, accompanied by the inevitable feather boa of which
English girls, who used to be so tidy and "tailor-made," now seem so fond. The universal white
"waist" is very pretty and trim on the American girl. It is one of the distinguishing marks
of a land of the free, a land where "class" hardly exists. The girl in the store wears the
white waist; so does the rich girl on Fifth Avenue. It costs anything from seventy-five cents
to fifty dollars!

London when I come back from America always seems at first like an ill-lighted village, strangely
tame, peaceful and backward. Above all, I miss the sunlight of America, and the clear blue
skies of an evening.

"Are you glad to get back?" said an English friend.

"Very."

"It's a land of vulgarity, isn't it?"

"Oh yes, if you mean by that a wonderful land--a land of sunshine and light, of happiness,
of faith in the future!" I answered. I saw no misery or poverty there. Every one looked happy.
What hurts me on coming back to England is the hopeless look on so many faces; the dejection
and apathy of the people standing about in the streets. Of course there is poverty in New York,
but not among the Americans. The Italians, the Russians, the Poles--all the host of immigrants
washed in daily on the bosom of the Hudson--these are poor, but you don't see them unless you
go Bowery-ways, and even then you can't help feeling that in their sufferings there is always
hope. The barrow man of to-day is the millionaire of to-morrow! Vulgarity? I saw little of
it. I thought that the people who had amassed large fortunes used their wealth beautifully.

When a man is rich enough to build himself a big new house, he remembers some old house which
he once admired, and he has it imitated with all the technical skill and care that can be had
in America. This accounts for the odd jumble of styles in Fifth Avenue, along the lakeside
in Chicago, in the new avenues in St. Louis and elsewhere. One millionaire's house is modeled
on a French château, another on an old Colonial house in Virginia, another on a monastery in
Mexico, another is like an Italian palazzo. And their imitations are never weak or pretentious.
The architects in America seem to me to be far more able than ours, or else they have a freer
hand and more money. It is sad to remember that Mr. Stanford White was one of the best of these
splendid architects.

It was Stanford White with Saint-Gaudens--that great sculptor, whose work dignifies nearly
all the great cities in America--who had most to do with the Exhibition buildings of the World's
Fair in Chicago in 1893. It was odd to see that fair dream city rising out of the lake, so
far more beautiful in its fleeting beauty than the Chicago of the stock-yards and the Pit which
had provided the money for its beauty. The millionaires did not interfere with the artists
at all. They gave their thousands--and stood aside. The result was one of the loveliest things
conceivable. Saint-Gaudens and the rest did their work as well as though the buildings were
to endure for centuries instead of being burned in a year to save the trouble of pulling down!
The World's Fair always recalled to me the story of Michael Angelo, who carved a figure in
snow which, says the chronicler who saw it, "was superb."

Saint-Gaudens gave me a cast of his medallion of Bastien-Lepage, and wrote to a friend of mine
that "Bastien had 'le coeur au métier.' So has Miss Terry, and I will place that saying in
the frame that is to replace the present unsatisfactory one." He was very fastidious about
this frame, and took such a lot of trouble to get it right. It must have been very irritating
to Saint-Gaudens when he fell a victim to that extraordinary official puritanism which sometimes
exercises a petty censorship over works of art in America. The medal that he made for the World's
Fair was rejected at Washington because it had on it a beautiful little nude figure of a boy
holding an olive branch, emblematical of young America. I think a commonplace wreath and some
lettering were substituted.

Saint-Gaudens did the fine bas-relief of Robert Louis Stevenson which was chosen for the monument
in St. Gile's Cathedral, Edinburgh. He gave my daughter a medallion cast from this, because
he knew that she was a great lover of Stevenson. The bas-relief was dedicated to his friend
Joe Evans. I knew Saint-Gaudens first through Joe Evans, an artist who, while he lived, was
to me and to my daughter the dearest of all in America. His character was so fine and noble--his
nature so perfect. Many were the birthday cards he did for me, original in design, beautiful
in execution. Whatever he did he put the best of himself into it. I wrote to my daughter soon
after his death:--

     "I heard on Saturday that our dear Joe Evans is dangerously ill.
     Yesterday came the worst news. Joe was not happy, but he was just
     heroic, and this world wasn't half good enough for him. I keep on
     getting letters about him. He seems to have been so glad to die. It
     was like a child's funeral, I am told, and all his American friends
     seem to have been there--Saint-Gaudens, Taber, etc. A poem about
     the dear fellow by Mr. Gilder has one very good line in which he
     says the grave 'might snatch a brightness from his presence there.'
     I thought that was very happy, the love of light and gladness being
     the most remarkable thing about him, the dear sad Joe."

Robert Taber, dear, and rather sad too, was a great friend of Joe's. They both came to me first
in the shape of a little book in which was inscribed, "Never anything can be amiss when simpleness
and duty tender it." "Upon this hint I spake," the book began. It was all the work of a few
boys and girls who from the gallery of the Star Theater, New York, had watched Irving's productions
and learned to love him and me. Joe Evans had done a lovely picture by way of frontispiece
of a group of eager heads hanging over the gallery's edge, his own and Taber's among them.
Eventually Taber came to England and acted with Henry Irving in "Peter the Great" and other plays.

Like his friend Joe, he too was heroic. His health was bad and his life none too happy--but
he struggled on. His career was cut short by consumption, and he died in the Adirondacks in 1904.

I cannot speak of all my friends in America, or anywhere, for the matter of that, individually.
My personal friends are so many, and they are all wonderful--wonderfully staunch to me! I have
"tried" them so, and they have never given me up as a bad job.

My first friends of all in America were Mr. Bayard, afterwards the American Ambassador in London,
and his sister, Mrs. Benoni Lockwood, her husband and their children. Now after all these years
they are still my friends, and I can hope for none better to the end.

William Winter, poet, critic and exquisite man, was one of the first to write of Henry with
whole-hearted appreciation. But all the criticism in America, favorable and unfavorable, surprised
us by the scholarly knowledge it displayed. In Chicago the notices were worthy of the Temps
or the Journal des Débats. There was no attempt to force the personality of the writer into
the foreground nor to write a style that should attract attention to the critic and leave the
thing criticized to take care of itself. William Winter, and, of late years, Allan Dale, have
had their personalities associated with their criticisms, but they are exceptions. Curiously
enough the art of acting appears to bore most dramatic critics, the very people who might be
expected to be interested in it. The American critics, however, at the time of our early visits,
were keenly interested, and showed it by their observation of many points which our English
critics had passed over. For instance, writing of "Much Ado about Nothing," one of the Americans
said of Henry in the Church Scene that "something of him as a subtle interpreter of doubtful
situations was exquisitely shown in the early part of this fine scene by his suspicion of Don
John--felt by him alone, and expressed only by a quick covert look, but a look so full of intelligence
as to proclaim him a sharer in the secret with his audience."

"Wherein does the superiority lie?" wrote another critic in comparing our productions with
those which had been seen in America up to 1884. "Not in the amount of money expended, but
in the amount of brains;--in the artistic intelligence and careful and earnest pains with which
every detail is studied and worked out. Nor is there any reason why Mr. Irving or any other
foreigner should have a monopoly of either intelligence or pains. They are common property,
and one man's money can buy them as well as another's. The defect in the American manager's
policy heretofore has been that he has squandered his money upon high salaries for a few of
his actors and costly, because unintelligent, expenditure for mere dazzle and show."

William Winter soon became a great personal friend of ours, and visited us in England. He was
one of the few sad people I met in America. He could have sat upon the ground and told "sad
stories of the deaths of kings" with the best. He was very familiar with the poetry of the
immediate past--Cowper, Coleridge, Gray, Wordsworth, Shelley, Keats, and the rest. He liked
us, so everything we did was right to him. He could not help being guided entirely by his feelings.
If he disliked a thing, he had no use for it. Some men can say, "I hate this play, but of its
kind it is admirable." Willie Winter could never take that unemotional point of view. In England
he loved going to see graveyards, and knew where every poet was buried.

His children came to stay with me in London. When we were all coming home from the theater
one night after "Faust" (the year must have been 1886) I said to little Willie:

"Well, what do you think of the play?"

"Oh my!" said he, "it takes the cake."

"Takes the cake!" said his little sister scornfully, "it takes the ice-cream!"

"Won't you give me a kiss?" said Henry to the same young miss one night. "No, I won't with
all that blue stuff on your face." (He was made up for Mephistopheles.) Then, after a pause,
"But why--why don't you take it!" She was only five years old at the time!

I love the American papers, especially the Sunday ones, although they do weigh nearly half
a ton! As for the interviewers, I never cease to marvel at their cleverness. I tell them nothing,
and the next day I read their "story" and find that I have said the most brilliant things!
The following delightful "skit" on one of these interviews suggested itself to my clever friend
Miss Aimée Lowther:--

WHAT CONSTITUTES CHARM

AN ILLUSTRATED INTERVIEW WITH MISS ELLEN TERRY

"Yes, I know that I am very charming," said Miss Ellen Terry, "a perfectly delightful creature,
a Queen of Hearts, a regular witch!" she added thoughtfully, at the same time projecting a
pip of the orange she was chewing, with inimitable grace and accurate aim into

THE REPORTER'S EYE.

"You know, at all events, that you have charm?" I said.

"What do you think, you idiot! I exercise absolute power over my audiences--I cast over them
an irresistible spell--I do with them what I will.... I am omnipotent, enthralling--and no wonder!"

I looked at her across the table, wondering at so much simple modesty.

"But feeling your power, you must often be tempted to experiment with it," I ventured.

"Yes, now and then I am," replied Miss Terry. "Once, I remember, when I was to appear as Ophelia,
on making my entrance and seeing the audience waiting breathlessly--as they always do--for
what I was going to do next, I said to myself, 'You silly fools, you shall have a treat to-night--I
will give you something you will appreciate more than Shakespeare!' Hastily slipping on a

FALSE NOSE

which I always carry in my pocket, I struck an attitude, and then turned

A SOMERSAULT.

"Ah! the applause, the delirious, intoxicating applause! That night I felt my power, that night
I knew that I had wished I could have held them indefinitely! But I am only one of several
gifted beings on the stage who are blessed with this mysterious quality. Dan Leno, Herbert
Campbell, and Little Tich all have it. Dan Leno, in particular, rivets the attention of his
audience by his entrancing by-play, even when he doesn't speak. And yet it is

NOT HIS BEAUTY

precisely that does it."

At that moment Miss Terry's little grandchild, who was playing about the room,

BEGAN TO HOWL

most dismally.

"Here is a little maid who was a charmer from her cradle," said the delightful actress, picking
up the child and

PLAYFULLY TOSSING

it out of the third-floor window. Seeing me look relieved, though somewhat surprised, she said
merrily: "I have plenty more of them at home, and they are

ALL CHARMING,

every one of them! If you want to be charming you must be natural--I always am. Even in my
cradle I was

QUITE NATURAL.

And now, please go. Your conversation bores me inexpressibly, and your countenance, which is
at once vacuous and singularly plain, disagrees with me thoroughly. Go! or I shall

BE SICK!"

So saying the great actress gave me a

VIGOROUS KICK

which landed me outside her room, considerably shaken, and entirely under the spell of her
matchless charm.

       *       *       *       *       *

For "quite a while" during the first tour I stayed in Washington with my friend Miss Olive
Seward, and all the servants of that delightful household were colored. This was my first introduction
to the negroes, whose presence more than anything else in the country, makes America seem foreign
to European eyes. They are more sharply divided into high and low types than white people,
and are not in the least alike in their types. It is safe to call any colored man "George."
They all love it, perhaps because of George Washington, and most of them are really named George.
I never met such perfect service as they can give. Some of them are delightful. The beautiful,
full voice of the "darkey" is so attractive, so soothing, and they are so deft and gentle.
Some of the women are beautiful, and all the young appeared to me to be well-formed. As for
the babies! I washed two or three little piccaninnies when I was in the South, and the way
they rolled their gorgeous eyes at me was "too cute," which means in British-English "fascinating."

At the Washington house, the servants danced a cake-walk for me--the colored cook, a magnificent
type, who "took the cake," saying, "that was because I chose a good handsome boy to dance with,
Missie."

They sang too. Their voices were beautiful--with such illimitable power, yet as sweet as treacle.

The little page-boy had a pet of a wooly head. Henry once gave him a tip--"fee," as they call
it in America--and said: "There, that's for a new wig when this one is worn out," gently pulling
the astrakhan-like hair. The tip would have bought him many wigs, I think!

"Why, Uncle Tom, how your face shines to-night!" said my hostess to one of the very old servants.

"Yes, Missie, glycerine and rose-water, Missie!"

He had taken some from her dressing-table to shine up his face in honor of me! A shiny complexion
is considered to be a great beauty among the negroes! The dear old man! He was very bent and
very old; and looked like one of the logs that he used to bring in for the fire--a log from
some hoary, lichened tree whose life was long since past. He would produce a pin from his head
when you wanted one; he had them stuck in his pad of white wooly hair: "Always handy then,
Missie," he would say.

"Ask them to sing 'Sweet Violets,' Uncle Tom."

He was acting as a sort of master of the ceremonies at the entertainment the servants were
giving me.

"Don't think they know dat, Miss Olly."

"Why, I heard them singing it the other night!" And she hummed the tune.

"Oh, dat was 'Sweet Vio-letts,' Miss Olly!"

Washington was the first city I had seen in America where the people did not hurry, and where
the social life did not seem entirely the work of women. The men asserted themselves here as
something more than machines in the background untiringly turning out the dollars, while their
wives and daughters give luncheons and teas at which only women are present.

Beautifully as the women dress, they talk very little about clothes. I was much struck by their
culture--by the evidences that they had read far more and developed a more fastidious taste
than most young Englishwomen. Yet it is all mixed up with extraordinary naïveté. The vivacity,
the appearance, at least, of reality, the animation, the energy of American women delighted
me. They are very sympathetic, too, in spite of a certain callousness which comes of regarding
everything in life, even love, as "lots of fun." I did not think that they, or the men either,
had much natural sense of beauty. They admire beauty in a curious way through their intellect.
Nearly every American girl has a cast of the winged Victory of the Louvre in her room. She
makes it a point of her education to admire it.

There! I am beginning to generalize--the very thing I was resolute to avoid. How silly to generalize
about a country which embraces such extremes of climate as the sharp winters of Boston and
New York and the warm winds of Florida which blow through palms and orange groves!

XII

SOME LIKES AND DISLIKES

It is only human to make comparisons between American and English institutions, although they
are likely to turn out as odious as the proverb says! The first institution in America that
distressed me was the steam heat. It is far more manageable now than it was both in hotels
and theaters, because there are more individual heaters. But how I suffered from it at first
I cannot describe! I used to feel dreadfully ill, and when we could not turn the heat off at
the theater, the plays always went badly. My voice was affected too. At Toledo once, it nearly
went altogether. Then the next night, after a good fight for it, we got the theater cool, and
the difference that it made to the play was extraordinary. I was in my best form, feeling well
and jolly!

No wonder the Americans drink ice-water and wear very thin clothes indoors. Their rooms are
hotter than ours ever are, even in the height of the summer--when we have a summer! But no
wonder, either, that Americans in England shiver at our cold, draughty rooms. They are brought
up in hot-houses.

If I did not like steam heat, I loved the ice which is such a feature at American meals. Everything
is served on ice, and the ice-water, however pernicious the European may consider it as a drink,
looks charming and cool in the hot rooms.

I liked the traveling; but then we traveled in a very princely fashion. The Lyceum company
and baggage occupied eight cars, and Henry's private parlor car was lovely. The only thing
that we found was better understood in England, so far as railway traveling is concerned, was
privacy. You may have a private car in America, but all the conductors on the train, and there
is one to each car, can walk through it. So can any official, baggage man or newsboy who has
the mind!

The "parlor car" in America is more luxurious than our first class, but you travel in it (if
you have no "private" car) with thirty other people.

"What do you want to be private for?" asked an American, and you don't know how to answer,
for you find that with them that privacy means concealment. For this reason, I believe, they
don't have hedges or walls round their estates and gardens. "Why should we? We have nothing
to hide!"

In the cars, as in the rooms at one's hotel, the "cuspidor" is always with you as a thing of
beauty! When I first went to America the "Ladies' Entrance" to the hotel was really necessary,
because the ordinary entrance was impassable! Since then very severe laws against spitting
in public places have been passed, and there is a great improvement. But the habit, I suppose
due to the dryness of the climate, or to the very strong cigars smoked, or to chronic catarrh,
or to a feeling of independence--"This is a free country and I can spit if I choose!"--remains
sufficiently disgusting to a stranger visiting the country.

The American voice is the one thing in the country that I find unbearable; yet the truly terrible
variety only exists in one State, and is not widely distributed. I suppose it is its very assertiveness
that makes one forget the very sweet voices that also exist in America. The Southern voice
is very low in tone and soothing, like the "darkey" voice. It is as different from Yankee as
the Yorkshire burr is from the Cockney accent.

This question of accent is a very funny one. I had not been in America long when a friend said
to me:

"We like your voice. You have so little English accent!"

This struck me as rather cool. Surely English should be spoken with an English accent, not
with a French, German, or double-dutch one! Then I found that what they meant by an English
accent was an English affectation of speech--a drawl with a tendency to "aw" and "ah" everything.
They thought that every one in England who did not miss out aspirates where they should be,
and put them in where they should not be, talked of "the rivah," "ma brothar," and so on. Their
conclusion was, after all, quite as well founded as ours about their accent. The American intonation,
with its freedom from violent emphasis, is, I think, rather pretty when the quality of the
voice is sweet.

Of course the Americans would have their jokes about Henry's method of speech. Ristori followed
us once in New York, and a newspaper man said he was not sure whether she or Mr. Irving was
the more difficult for an American to understand.

"He pronounces the English tongue as it is pronounced by no other man, woman or child," wrote
the critic, and proceeded to give a phonetically spelled version of Irving's delivery of Shylock's
speech of Antonio.

    "Wa thane, ett no eperes
    Ah! um! yo ned m'clp
    Ough! ough! Gaw too thane! Ha! um!
    Yo com'n say
    Ah! Shilok, um! ouch! we wode hev moanies!"

I wonder if the clever American reporter stopped to think how his delivery of the same speech
would look in print! As for the ejaculations, the interjections and grunts with which Henry
interlarded the text, they often helped to reveal the meaning of Shakespeare to his audience--a
meaning which many a perfect elocutionist has left perfectly obscure. The use of "m'" or "me"
for "my" has often been hurled in my face as a reproach, but I never contracted "my" without
good reason. I had a line in Olivia which I began by delivering as--

    "My sorrows and my shame are my own."

Then I saw that the "mys" sounded ridiculous, and abbreviated the two first ones into "me's."

There were of course people ready to say that the Americans did not like Henry Irving as an
actor, and that they only accepted him as a manager--that he triumphed in New York as he had
done in London, through his lavish spectacular effects. This is all moonshine. Henry made his
first appearance in "The Bells," his second in "Charles I.," his third in "Louis XI." By that
time he had conquered, and without the aid of anything at all notable in the mounting of the
plays. It was not until we did "The Merchant of Venice" that he gave the Americans anything
of a "production."

My first appearance in America in Shakespeare was as Portia, and I could not help feeling pleased
by my success. A few weeks later I played Ophelia at Philadelphia. It is in Shakespeare that
I have been best liked in America, and I consider that Beatrice was the part about which they
were most enthusiastic.

During our first tour we visited in succession New York, Philadelphia, Boston, Baltimore, Brooklyn,
Chicago, Cincinnati, St. Louis, Detroit, and Toronto. To most of these places we paid return
visits.

"To what do you attribute your success, Mr. Irving?"

"To my acting," was the simple reply.

We never had poor houses except in Baltimore and St. Louis. Our journey to Baltimore was made
in a blizzard. They were clearing the snow before us all the way from New Jersey, and we took
forty-two hours to reach Baltimore! The bells of trains before us and behind us sounded very
alarming. We opened in Baltimore on Christmas day. The audience was wretchedly small, but the
poor things who were there had left their warm firesides to drive or tramp through the slush
of melting snow, and each one who managed to reach the theater was worth a hundred on an ordinary
night.

At the hotel I put up holly and mistletoe, and produced from my trunks a real Christmas pudding
that my mother had made. We had it for supper, and it was very good.

It never does to repeat an experiment. Next year at Pittsburg my little son Teddy brought me
out another pudding from England. For once we were in an uncomfortable hotel, and the Christmas
dinner was deplorable. It began with burned hare soup.

"It seems to me," said Henry, "that we aren't going to get anything to eat, but we'll make
up for it by drinking!"

He had brought his own wine out with him from England, and the company took him at his word
and did make up for it!

"Never mind!" I said, as the soup was followed by worse and worse. "There's my pudding!"

It came on blazing, and looked superb. Henry tasted a mouthful.

"Very odd," he said, "but I think this is a camphor pudding."

He said it so politely, as if he might easily be mistaken!

My maid in England had packed the pudding with my furs! It simply reeked of camphor.

So we had to dine on Henry's wine and L.F. Austin's wit. This dear, brilliant man, now dead,
acted for many years as Henry's secretary, and one of his gifts was the happy knack of hitting
off people's peculiarities in rhyme. This dreadful Christmas dinner at Pittsburg was enlivened
by a collection of such rhymes, which Mr. Austin called a "Lyceum Christmas Play."

Every one roared with laughter until it came to the verse of which he was the victim, when
suddenly he found the fun rather labored!

The first verse was spoken by Loveday, who announces that the "Governor" has a new play which
is "Wonderful!" a great word of Loveday's.

George Alexander replies:

    "But I say, Loveday, have I got a part in it,
    That I can wear a cloak in and look smart in it?
    Not that I care a fig for gaudy show, dear boy--
    But juveniles must look well, don't you know, dear boy.
    And shall I lordly hall and tuns of claret own?
    And may I murmur love in dulcet baritone?
    Tell me at least, this simple fact of it--
    Can I beat Terriss hollow in one act of it?[1]
    Pooh for Wenman's bass![2] Why should he make a boast of it?"

[Footnote 1: Alexander had just succeeded Terriss as our leading young man.]

[Footnote 2: Wenman had a rolling bass voice of which he was very proud. He was a valuable
actor, yet somehow never interesting. Young Norman Forbes-Robertson played Sir Andrew Ague
Cheak with us on our second American tour.]

Norman Forbes:

    "If he has a voice, I have got the ghost of it!
    When I pitch it low, you may say how weak it is,
    When I pitch it high, heavens! what a squeak it is!
    But I never mind; for what does it signify?
    See my graceful hands, they're the things that dignify;
    All the rest is froth, and egotism's dizziness--
    Have I not played with Phelps?
    (To Wenman)
    I'll teach you all the business!"

T. Mead:

(Of whom much has already been written in these pages.)

    "What's this about a voice? Surely you forget it, or
    Wilfully conceal that I have no competitor!
    I do not know the play, or even what the title is,
    But safe to make success a charnel-house recital is!
    So please to bear in mind, if I am not to fail in it,
    That Hamlet's father's ghost must rob the Lyons Mail in it!
    No! that's not correct! But you may spare your charity--
    A good sepulchral groan's the thing for popularity!"

H. Howe:

(The "agricultural" actor, as Henry called him.)

    "Boys, take my advice, the stage is not the question,
    But whether at three score you'll all have my digestion.
    Why yearn for plays, to pose as Brutuses or Catos in,
    When you may get a garden to grow the best potatoes in?
    You see that at my age by Nature's shocks unharmed I am!
    Tho' if I sneeze but thrice, good heavens, how alarmed I am!
    But act your parts like men, and tho' you all great sinners are,
    You're sure to act like men wherever Irving's dinners are!"

J.H. Allen (our prompter):

    "Whatever be the play, I must have a hand in it,
    For won't I teach the supers how to stalk and stand in it?
    Tho' that blessed Shakespeare never gives a ray to them,
    I explain the text, and then it's clear as day to them![1]
    Plain as A B C is a plot historical,
    When I overhaul allusions allegorical!
    Shakespeare's not so bad; he'd have more pounds and pence in him,
    If actors stood aside, and let me show the sense in him!"

[Footnote 1: Once when Allen was rehearsing the supers in the Church Scene in "Much Ado about
Nothing," we overheard him show the sense in Shakespeare like this:

"This 'Ero let me tell you is a perfect lady, a nice, innercent young thing, and when the feller
she's engaged to calls 'er an 'approved wanton,' you naturally claps yer 'ands to yer swords.
A wanton is a kind of--well, you know she ain't what she ought to be!"

Allen would then proceed to read the part of Claudio:

     "... not to knit my soul to an approved wanton."

Seven or eight times the supers clapped their "'ands to their swords" without giving Allen
satisfaction.

"No, no, no, that's not a bit like it, not a bit! If any of your sisters was 'ere and you 'eard
me call 'er a ----, would yer stand gapin' at me as if this was a bloomin' tea party!"]

Louis Austin's little "Lyceum Play" was presented to me with a silver water-jug, a souvenir
from the company, and ended up with the following pretty lines spoken by Katie Brown, a clever
little girl who played all the small pages' parts at this time:

    "Although I'm but a little page,
      Who waits for Portia's kind behest,
    Mine is the part upon this stage
      To tell the plot you have not guessed.

    "Dear lady, oft in Belmont's hall,
      Whose mistress is so sweet and fair,
    Your humble slaves would gladly fall
      Upon their knees, and praise you there.

    "To offer you this little gift,
      Dear Portia, now we crave your leave,
    And let it have the grace to lift
      Our hearts to yours this Christmas eve.

    "And so we pray that you may live
      Thro' many, many, happy years,
    And feel what you so often give--
      The joy that is akin to tears!"

How nice of Louis Austin! It quite made up for my mortification over the camphor pudding!

Pittsburg has been called "hell with the lid off," and other insulting names. I have always
thought it beautiful, especially at night when its furnaces make it look like a city of flame.
The lovely park that the city has made on the heights that surround it is a lesson to Birmingham,
Sheffield, and our other black towns. George Alexander said that Pittsburg reminded him of
his native town of Sheffield. "Had he said Birmingham, now instead of Sheffield," wrote a Pittsburg
newspaper man, "he would have touched our tender spot exactly. As it is, we can be as cheerful
as the Chicago man was who boasted that his sweetheart 'came pretty near calling him "honey,"'
when in fact she had called him 'Old Beeswax'!"

When I played Ophelia for the first time in Chicago, I played the part better than I had ever
played it before, and I don't believe I ever played it so well again. Why, it is almost impossible
to say. I had heard a good deal of the crime of Chicago, that the people were a rough, murderous,
sand-bagging crew. I ran on to the stage in the mad scene, and never have I felt such sympathy!
This frail wraith, this poor demented thing, could hold them in the hollow of her hand....
It was splendid! "How long can I hold them?" I thought: "For ever!" Then I laughed. That was
the best Ophelia laugh of my life--my life that is such a perfect kaleidoscope with the people
and the places turning round and round.

At the risk of being accused of indiscriminate flattery I must say that I liked all the American
cities. Every one of them has a joke at the expense of the others. They talk in New York of
a man who lost both his sons--"One died and the other went to live in Philadelphia." Pittsburg
is the subject of endless criticism, and Chicago is "the limit." To me, indeed, it seemed "the
limit"--of the industry, energy, and enterprise of man. In 1812 this vast city was only a frontier
post--Fort Dearborn. In 1871 the town that first rose on these great plains was burned to the
ground. The growth of the present Chicago began when I was a grown woman. I have celebrated
my jubilee. Chicago will not do that for another fifteen years!

I never visited the stock-yards. Somehow I had no curiosity to see a live pig turned in fifteen
minutes into ham, sausages, hair-oil, and the binding for a Bible! I had some dread of being
made sad by the spectacle of so much slaughter--of hating the Chicago of the "abattoir" as
much as I had loved the Chicago of the Lake with the white buildings of the World's Fair shining
on it, the Chicago built on piles in splendid isolation in the middle of the prairie, the Chicago
of Marshall Field's beautiful palace of a store, the Chicago of my dear friends, the Chicago
of my son's first appearance on the stage! Was it not a Chicago man who wrote of my boy, tending
the roses in the stage garden in "Eugene Aram," that he was "a most beautiful lad"!

     "His eyes are full of sparkle, his smile is a ripple over his face,
     and his laugh is as cherry and natural as a bird's song.... This
     Joey is Miss Ellen Terry's son, and the apple of her eye. On this
     Wednesday night, January 14, 1885, he spoke his first lines upon
     the stage. His mother has high hopes of this child's dramatic
     future. He has the instinct and the soul of art in him. Already the
     theater is his home. His postures and his playfulness with the
     gardener, his natural and graceful movement, had been the subject
     of much drilling, of study and practice. He acquitted himself
     beautifully and received the wise congratulations of his mother, of
     Mr. Irving, and of the company."

That is the nicest newspaper notice I have ever read!

At Chicago I made my first speech. The Haverley Theater, at which we first appeared in 1884,
was altered and rechristened the "Columbia" in 1885. I was called upon for a speech after the
special performance in honor of the occasion, consisting of scenes from "Charles I.," "Louis
XI," "The Merchant of Venice," and "The Bells," had come to an end. I think it must be the
shortest speech on record:

     "Ladies and Gentlemen, I have been asked to christen your beautiful
     theater. 'Hail Columbia!'"

When we acted in Brooklyn we used to stay in New York and drive over that wonderful bridge
every night. There were no trolley cars on it then. I shall never forget how it looked in winter,
with the snow and ice on it--a gigantic trellis of dazzling white, as incredible as a dream.
The old stone bridges were works of art. This bridge, woven of iron and steel for a length
of over 500 yards, and hung high in the air over the water so that great ships can pass beneath
it, is the work of science. It looks as if it had been built by some power, not by men at all.

It was during our week at Brooklyn in 1885 that Henry was ill, too ill to act for four nights.
Alexander played Benedick, and got through it wonderfully well. Then old Mr. Mead did (did
is the word) Shylock. There was no intention behind his words or what he did.

I had such a funny batch of letters on my birthday that year. "Dear, sweet Miss Terry, etc.,
etc. Will you give me a piano?"!! etc., etc. Another: "Dear Ellen. Come to Jesus. Mary." Another,
a lovely letter of thanks from a poor woman in the most ghastly distress, and lastly an offer
of a two years' engagement in America. There was a simple coming in for one woman acting at
Brooklyn on her birthday!

Brooklyn is as sure a laugh in New York as the mother-in-law in a London music hall. "All cities
begin by being lonesome," a comedian explained, "and Brooklyn has never gotten over it."

My only complaint against Brooklyn was that they would not take Fussie in at the hotel there.
Fussie, during these early American tours, was still my dog. Later on he became Henry's. He
had his affections alienated by a course of chops, tomatoes, strawberries, "ladies' fingers"
soaked in champagne, and a beautiful fur rug of his very own presented by the Baroness Burdett-Coutts!

How did I come by Fussie? I went to Newmarket with Rosa Corder, whom Whistler painted. She
was one of those plain-beautiful women who are so far more attractive than some of the pretty
ones. She had wonderful hair--like a fair, pale veil, a white, waxen face, and a very good
figure; and she wore very odd clothes. She had a studio in Southampton Row, and another at
Newmarket where she went to paint horses. I went to Cambridge once and drove back with her
across the heath to her studio.

"How wonderfully different are the expressions on terriers' faces," I said to her, looking
at a painting of hers of a fox-terrier pup. "That's the only sort of dog I should like to have."

"That one belonged to Fred Archer," Rosa Corder said. "I daresay he could get you one like it."

We went out to find Archer. Curiously enough I had known the famous jockey at Harpenden when
he was a little boy, and I believe used to come round with vegetables.

"I'll send you a dog, Miss Terry, that won't be any trouble. He's got a very good head, a first-rate
tail, stuck in splendidly, but his legs are too long. He'd follow you to America!"

Prophetic words! On one of our departures for America, Fussie was left behind by mistake at
Southampton. He could not get across the Atlantic, but he did the next best thing. He found
his way back from there to his own theater in the Strand, London!

Fred Archer sent him originally to the stage-door at the Lyceum. The man who brought him out
from there to my house in Earl's Court said:

"I'm afraid he gives tongue, Miss. He don't like music, anyway. There was a band at the bottom
of your road, and he started hollering."

We were at luncheon when Fussie made his début into the family circle, and I very quickly saw
his stomach was his fault. He had a great dislike to "Charles I."; we could never make out
why. Perhaps it was because Henry wore armor in one act--and Fussie may have barked his shins
against it. Perhaps it was the firing off of the guns; but more probably it was because the
play once got him into trouble. As a rule Fussie had the most wonderful sense of the stage,
and at rehearsal would skirt the edge of it, but never cross it. But at Brooklyn one night
when we were playing "Charles I."--the last act, and that most pathetic part of it where Charles
is taking a last farewell of his wife and children--Fussie, perhaps excited by his run over
the bridge from New York, suddenly bounded on to the stage! The good children who were playing
Princess Mary and Prince Henry didn't even smile; the audience remained solemn, but Henry and
I nearly went into hysterics. Fussie knew directly that he had done wrong. He lay down on his
stomach, then rolled over on his back, whimpering an apology--while carpenters kept on whistling
and calling to him from the wings. The children took him up to the window at the back of the
scene, and he stayed there cowering between them until the end of the play.

America seems to have been always fatal to Fussie. Another time when Henry and I were playing
in some charity performance in which John Drew and Maude Adams were also acting, he disgraced
himself again. Henry having "done his bit" and put on hat and coat to leave the theater, Fussie
thought the end of the performance must have come; the stage had no further sanctity for him,
and he ran across it to the stage door barking! John Drew and Maude Adams were playing "A Pair
of Lunatics." Maude Adams, sitting looking into the fire, did not see Fussie, but was amazed
to hear John Drew departing madly from the text:

    "Is this a dog I see before me,
    His tail towards my hand?
    Come, let me clutch thee."

She began to think that he had really gone mad!

When Fussie first came, Charlie was still alive, and I have often gone into Henry's dressing-room
and seen the two dogs curled up in both the available chairs, Henry standing while he made
up, rather than disturb them!

When Charlie died, Fussie had Henry's idolatry all to himself. I have caught them often sitting
quietly opposite each other at Grafton Street, just adoring each other! Occasionally Fussie
would thump his tail on the ground to express his pleasure.

Wherever we went in America the hotel people wanted to get rid of the dog. In the paper they
had it that Miss Terry asserted that Fussie was a little terrier, while the hotel people regarded
him as a pointer, and funny caricatures were drawn of a very big me with a very tiny dog, and
a very tiny me with a dog the size of an elephant! Henry often walked straight out of an hotel
where an objection was made to Fussie. If he wanted to stay, he had recourse to strategy. At
Detroit the manager of the hotel said that dogs were against the rules. Being very tired Henry
let Fussie go to the stables for the night, and sent Walter to look after him. The next morning
he sent for the manager.

"Yours is a very old-fashioned hotel, isn't it?"

"Yes, sir, very old and ancient."

"Got a good chef? I didn't think much of the supper last night; but still--the beds are comfortable
enough--I am afraid you don't like animals?"

"Yes, sir, in their proper place."

"It's a pity," said Henry meditatively, "because you happen to be overrun by rats!"

"Sir, you must have made a mistake. Such a thing couldn't--"

"Well, I couldn't pass another night here without my dog," Henry interrupted. "But there are,
I suppose, other hotels?"

"If it will be any comfort to you to have your dog with you, sir, do by all means, but I assure
you that he'll catch no rat here."

"I'll be on the safe side," said Henry calmly.

And so it was settled. That very night Fussie supped off, not rats, but terrapin and other
delicacies in Henry's private sitting-room.

It was the 1888 tour, the great blizzard year, that Fussie was left behind by mistake at Southampton.
He jumped out at the station just before Southampton, where they stop to collect tickets. After
this long separation, Henry naturally thought that the dog would go nearly mad with joy when
he saw him again. He described to me the meeting in a letter.

     "My dear Fussie gave me a terrible shock on Sunday night. When we
     got in, J----, Hatton, and I dined at the Cafe Royal. I told Walter
     to bring Fussie there. He did, and Fussie burst into the room while
     the waiter was cutting some mutton, when, what d'ye think--one
     bound at me--another instantaneous bound at the mutton, and from
     the mutton nothing would get him until he'd got his plateful.

     "Oh, what a surprise it was indeed! He never now will leave my
     side, my legs, or my presence, but I cannot but think, alas, of
     that seductive piece of mutton!"

Poor Fussie! He met his death through the same weakness. It was at Manchester, I think. A carpenter
had thrown down his coat with a ham sandwich in the pocket, over an open trap on the stage.
Fussie, nosing and nudging after the sandwich, fell through and was killed instantly. When
they brought up the dog after the performance, every man took his hat off.... Henry was not
told until the end of the play.

He took it so very quietly that I was frightened, and said to his son Laurence who was on that
tour:

"Do let's go to his hotel and see how he is."

We drove there and found him sitting eating his supper with the poor dead Fussie, who would
never eat supper any more, curled up in his rug on the sofa. Henry was talking to the dog exactly
as if it were alive. The next day he took Fussie back in the train with him to London, covered
with a coat. He is buried in the dogs' cemetery, Hyde Park.

His death made an enormous difference to Henry. Fussie was his constant companion. When he
died, Henry was really alone. He never spoke of what he felt about it, but it was easy to know.

We used to get hints how to get this and that from watching Fussie! His look, his way of walking!
He sang, whispered eloquently and low--then barked suddenly and whispered again! Such a lesson
in the law of contrasts!

The first time that Henry went to the Lyceum after Fussie's death, every one was anxious and
distressed, knowing how he would miss the dog in his dressing-room. Then an odd thing happened.
The wardrobe cat, who had never been near the room in Fussie's lifetime, came down and sat
on Fussie's cushion! No one knew how the "Governor" would take it. But when Walter was sent
out to buy some meat for it, we saw that Henry was not going to resent it! From that night
onwards the cat always sat night after night in the same place, and Henry liked its companionship.
In 1902, when he left the theater for good, he wrote to me:

     "The place is now given up to the rats--all light cut off, and only
     Barry[1] and a foreman left. Everything of mine I've moved away,
     including the Cat!"

[Footnote 1: The stage-door keeper.]

I have never been to America yet without going to Niagara. The first time I saw the great falls
I thought it all more wonderful than beautiful. I got away by myself from my party, and looked
and looked at it, and I listened--and at last it became dreadful and I was frightened at it.
I wouldn't go alone again, for I felt queer and wanted to follow the great flow of it. But
at twelve o'clock, with the "sun upon the topmost height of the day's journey," most of Nature's
sights appear to me to be at their plainest. In the evening, when the shadows grow long and
all hard lines are blurred, how soft, how different, everything is! It was noontide, that garish
cruel time of day, when I first came in sight of the falls. I'm glad I went again in other
lights--but one should live by the side of all this greatness to learn to love it. Only once
did I catch Niagara in beauty, with pits of color in its waters, no one color definite--all
was wonderment, allurement, fascination. The last time I was there it was wonderful, but not
beautiful any more. The merely stupendous, the merely marvelous, have always repelled me. I
cannot realize, and become terribly weak and doddering. No terrific scene gives me pleasure.
The great cañons give me unrest, just as the long low lines of my Sussex marshland near Winchelsea
give me rest.

At Niagara William Terriss slipped and nearly lost his life. At night when he appeared as Bassanio,
he shrugged his shoulders, lowered his eyelids, and said to me--

"Nearly gone, dear,"--he would call everybody "dear"--"But Bill's luck! Tempus fugit!"

What tempus had to do with it, I don't quite know!

When we were first in Canada I tobogganed at Rosedale. I should say it was like flying! The
start! Amazing! "Farewell to this world," I thought, as I felt my breath go. Then I shut my
mouth, opened my eyes, and found myself at the bottom of the hill in a jiffy--"over hill, over
dale, through bush, through briar!" I rolled right out of the toboggan when we stopped. A very
nice Canadian man was my escort, and he helped me up the hill afterwards. I didn't like that
part of the affair quite so much.

Henry Irving would not come, much to my disappointment. He said that quick motion through the
air always gave him the ear-ache. He had to give up swimming (his old Cornish Aunt Penberthy
told me he delighted in swimming as a boy) just because it gave him most violent pains in the ear.

Philadelphia, as I first knew it, was the most old-world place I saw in America, except perhaps
Salem. Its redbrick side-walks, the trees in the streets, the low houses with their white marble
cuffs and collars, the pretty design of the place, all give it a character of its own. The
people, too, have a character of their own. They dress, or at least did dress, very quietly.
This was the only sign of their Quaker origin, except a very fastidious taste--in plays as
in other things.

Mrs. Gillespie, the great-grandchild of Benjamin Franklin, was one of my earliest Philadelphia
friends--a splendid type of the independent woman, a bit of the martinet, but immensely full
of kindness and humor. She had a word to say in all Philadelphian matters. It would be difficult
to imagine a greater contrast to Mrs. Gillespie of Philadelphia than Mrs. Fields of Boston,
that other great American lady whom to know is a liberal education.

Mrs. Fields reminded me of Lady Tennyson, Mrs. Tom Taylor, and Miss Hogarth (Dickens's sister-in-law)
all rolled into one. Her house is full of relics of the past. There is a portrait of Dickens
as a young man with long hair. He had a feminine face in those days, for all its strength.
Hard by is a sketch of Keats by Severn, with a lock of the poet's hair. Opposite is a head
of Thackeray, with a note in his handwriting fastened below. "Good-bye, Mrs. Fields; good-bye,
my dear Fields; good-bye to all. I go home."

Thackeray left Boston abruptly because a sudden desire to see his children had assailed him
at Christmas time!

As you sit in Mrs. Field's spacious room overlooking the Bay, you realize suddenly that before
you ever came into it, Dickens and Thackeray were both here, that this beautiful old lady who
so kindly smiles on you has smiled on them and on many other great men of letters long since
dead. It is here that they seem most alive. This is the house where the culture of Boston seems
no fad to make a joke about, but a rare and delicate reality.

This--and Fen Court, the home of that wonderful woman Mrs. Jack Gardiner, who represents the
present worship of beauty in Boston as Mrs. Fields represents its former worship of literary
men. Fen Court is a house of enchantment, a palace, and Mrs. Gardiner is like a great princess
in it. She has "great possessions" indeed, but her best, to my mind, is her most beautiful
voice, even though I remember her garden by moonlight with the fountain playing, her books
and her pictures, the Sargent portrait of herself presiding over one of the most splendid of
those splendid rooms, where everything great in old art and new art is represented. What a
portrait it is! Some one once said of Sargent that "behind the individual he finds the real,
and behind the real, a whole social order."

He has painted "Mrs. Jack" in a tight-fitting black dress with no ornament but her world-famed
pearl necklace round her waist, and on her shoes rubies like drops of blood. The daring, intellectual
face seems to say: "I have possessed everything that is worth possession, through the energy
and effort and labor of the country in which I was born."

Mrs. Gardiner represents all the poetry of the millionaire.

Mrs. Gardiner's house filled me with admiration, but if I want rest and peace I just think
of the houses of Mrs. James Fields and Oliver Wendell Holmes. He was another personage in Boston
life when I first went there. Oh, the visits I inflicted on him--yet he always seemed pleased
to see me, the cheery, kind man. It was generally winter when I called on him. At once it was
"four feet upon a fender!" Four feet upon a fender was his idea of happiness, he told me, during
one of these lengthy visits of mine to his house in Beacon Street.

He came to see us in "Much Ado about Nothing" and, next day sent me some little volumes of
his work with a lovely inscription on the front page. I miss him very much when I go to Boston now.

In New York, how much I miss Mrs. Beecher I could never say. The Beechers were the most wonderful
pair. What an actor he would have made! He read scenes from Shakespeare to Henry and me at
luncheon one day. He sat next to his wife, and they held hands nearly all the while; I thought
of that time when the great preacher was tried, and all through the trial his wife showed the
world her faith in his innocence by sitting by his side and holding his hand.

He was indeed a great preacher. I have a little faded card in my possession now: "Mrs. Henry
W. Beecher." "Will ushers of Plymouth Church please seat the bearer in the Pastor's pew." And
in the Pastor's pew I sat, listening to that magnificent bass-viol voice with its persuasive
low accent, its torrential scorn! After the sermon I went to the Beechers' home. Mr. Beecher
sat with a saucer of uncut gems by him on the table. He ran his hand through them from time
to time, held them up to the light, admiring them and speaking of their beauty and color as
eloquently as an hour before he had spoken of sin and death and redemption.

He asked me to choose a stone, and I selected an aquamarine, and he had it splendidly mounted
for me in Venetian style to wear in "The Merchant of Venice." Once when he was ill, he told
me, his wife had some few score of his jewels set up in lead--a kind of small stained-glass
window--and hung up opposite his bed. "It did me more good than the doctor's visits," he laughed
out!

Mrs. Beecher was very remarkable. She had a way of lowering her head and looking at you with
a strange intentness--gravely--kindly and quietly. At her husband she looked a world of love,
of faith, of undying devotion. She was fond of me, although I was told she disliked women generally
and had been brought up to think all actresses children of Satan. Obedience to the iron rules
which had always surrounded her had endowed her with extraordinary self-control. She would
not allow herself ever to feel heat or cold, and could stand any pain or discomfort without
a word of complaint.

She told me once that when she and her sister were children, a friend had given them some lovely
bright blue silk, and as the material was so fine they thought they would have it made up a
little more smartly than was usual in their somber religious home. In spite of their father's
hatred of gaudy clothes, they ventured on a little "V" at the neck, hardly showing more than
the throat; but still, in a household where blue silk itself was a crime, it was a bold venture.
They put on the dresses for the first time for five o'clock dinner, stole downstairs with trepidation,
rather late, and took their seats as usual one on each side of their father. He was eating
soup and never looked up. The little sisters were relieved. He was not going to say anything.

No, he was not going to say anything, but suddenly he took a ladleful of the hot soup and dashed
it over the neck of one sister; another ladleful followed quickly on the neck of the other.

"Oh, father, you've burned my neck!"

"Oh, father, you've spoiled my dress!"

"Oh, father, why did you do that?"

"I thought you might be cold," said the severe father significantly--malevolently.

That a woman who had been brought up like this should form a friendship with me naturally caused
a good deal of talk. But what did she care! She remained my true friend until her death, and
wrote to me constantly when I was in England--such loving, wise letters, full of charity and
simple faith. In 1889, after her husband's death, I wrote to her and sent my picture, and she
replied:

"My darling Nellie,--

"You cannot know how it soothes my extreme heart-loneliness to receive a token of remembrance,
and word of cheer from those I have faithfully loved, and who knew and reverenced my husband....
Ellen Terry is very sweet as Ellaline, but dearer far as my Nellie."

The Daly players were a revelation to me of the pitch of excellence which American acting had
reached. My first night at Daly's was a night of enchantment. I wrote to Mr. Daly and said:
"You've got a girl in your company who is the most lovely, humorous darling I have ever seen
on the stage." It was Ada Rehan! Now of course I didn't "discover" her or any rubbish of that
kind; the audience were already mad about her, but I did know her for what she was, even in
that brilliant "all-star" company and before she had played in the classics and won enduring
fame. The audacious, superb, quaint, Irish creature! Never have I seen such splendid high comedy!
Then the charm of her voice--a little like Ethel Barrymore's when Miss Ethel is speaking very
nicely--her smiles and dimples, and provocative, inviting coquetterie! Her Rosalind, her Country
Wife, her Helena, her performance in "The Railroad of Love"! And above all, her Katherine in
"The Taming of the Shrew"! I can only exclaim, not explain! Directly she came on I knew how
she was going to do the part. She had such shy, demure fun. She understood, like all great
comedians, that you must not pretend to be serious so sincerely that no one in the audience
sees through it!

As a woman off the stage Ada Rehan was even more wonderful than as a shrew on. She had a touch
of dignity, of nobility, of beauty, rather like Eleonora Duse's. The mouth and the formation
of the eye were lovely. Her guiltlessness of make-up off the stage was so attractive! She used
to come in to a supper with a lovely shining face which scorned a powder puff. The only thing
one missed was the red hair which seemed such a part of her on the stage.

Here is a dear letter from the dear, written in 1890:

"My dear Miss Terry,--

"Of course the first thing I was to do when I reached Paris was to write and thank you for
your lovely red feathers. One week is gone. To-day it rains and I am compelled to stay at home,
and at last I write. I thought you had forgotten me and my feathers long ago. So imagine my
delight when they came at the very end. I liked it so. It seemed as if I lived all the time
in your mind: and they came as a good-bye.

"I saw but little of you, but in that little I found no change. That was gratifying to me,
for I am over-sensitive, and would never trouble you if you had forgotten me. How I shall prize
those feathers--Henry Irving's, presented by Ellen Terry to me for my Rosalind Cap. I shall
wear them once and then put them by as treasures. Thank you so much for the pretty words you
wrote me about 'As You Like It.' I was hardly fit on that matinée. The great excitement I went
through during the London season almost killed me. I am going to try and rest, but I fear my
nerves and heart won't let me.

"You must try and read between the lines all I feel. I am sure you can if any one ever did,
but I cannot put into words my admiration for you--and that comes from deep down in my heart.
Good-bye, with all good wishes for your health and success.

"I remain

"Yours most affectionately,

"ADA REHAN."

I wish I could just once have played with Ada Rehan. When Mr. Tree could not persuade Mrs.
Kendal to come and play in "The Merry Wives of Windsor" a second time, I hoped that Ada Rehan
would come and rollick with me as Mrs. Ford--but it was not to be.

Mr. Daly himself interested me greatly. He was an excellent manager, a man in a million. But
he had no artistic sense. The productions of Shakespeare at Daly's were really bad from the
pictorial point of view. But what pace and "ensemble" he got from his company!

May Irwin was the low comedian who played the servants' parts in Daly's comedies from the German.
I might describe her, except that she was far more genial, as a kind of female Rutland Barrington.
On and off the stage her geniality distinguished her like a halo. It is a rare quality on the
stage, yet without it the comedian has uphill work. I should say that May Irwin and J.B. Buckstone
(the English actor and manager of the Haymarket Theater during the 'sixties) had it equally.
Generous May Irwin! Lucky those who have her warm friendship and jolly, kind companionship!

John Drew, the famous son of a famous mother, was another Daly player whom I loved. With what
loyalty he supported Ada Rehan! He never played for his own hand but for the good of the piece.
His mother, Mrs. John Drew, had the same quiet methods as Mrs. Alfred Wigan. Everything that
she did told. I saw Mrs. Drew play Mrs. Malaprop, and it was a lesson to people who overact.
Her daughter, Georgie Drew, Ethel Barrymore's mother, was also a charming actress. Maurice
Barrymore was a brilliantly clever actor. Little Ethel, as I still call her, though she is
a big "star," is carrying on the family traditions. She ought to play Lady Teazle. She may
take it from me that she would make a success in it.

Modjeska, who, though she is a Polish actress, lives in America and is associated with the
American stage, made a great impression on me. She was exquisite in many parts, but in none
finer than in "Adrienne Lecouvreur." Her last act electrified me. I have never seen it better
acted, although I have seen all the great ones do it since. Her Marie Stuart, too, was a beautiful
and distinguished performance. Her Juliet had lovely moments, but I did not so much care for
that, and her broken English interfered with the verse of Shakespeare. Some years ago I met
Modjeska and she greeted me so warmly and sweetly, although she was very ill.

During my more recent tours in America Maude Adams is the actress of whom I have seen most,
and "to see her is to love her!" In "The Little Minister" and in "Quality Street" I think she
is at her best, but above all parts she herself is most adorable. She is just worshiped in
America, and has an extraordinary effect--an educational effect upon all American girlhood.

I never saw Mary Anderson act. That seems a strange admission, but during her wonderful reign
at the Lyceum Theater, which she rented from Henry Irving, I was in America, and another time
when I might have seen her act I was very ill and ordered abroad. I have, however, had the
great pleasure of meeting her, and she has done me many little kindnesses. Hearing her praises
sung on all sides, and her beauties spoken of everywhere, I was particularly struck by her
modest evasion of publicity off the stage. I personally only knew her as a most beautiful woman--as
kind as beautiful--constantly working for her religion--always kind, a good daughter, a good
wife, a good woman.

She cheered me before I first sailed for America by saying that her people would like me.

"Since seeing you in Portia and Letitia," she wrote, "I am convinced you will take America
by storm." Certainly she took England by storm! But she abandoned her triumphs almost as soon
as they were gained. They never made her happy, she once told me, and I could understand her
better than most since I had had success too, and knew that it did not mean happiness. I have
a letter from her, written from St. Raphael soon after her marriage. It is nice to think that
she is just as happy now as she was then--that she made no mistake when she left the stage,
where she had such a brief and brilliant career.

"GRAND HOTEL DE VALESCURE, "ST. RAPHAEL, FRANCE.

"Dear Miss Terry,--

"I am saying all kinds of fine things about your beautiful work in my book--which will appear
shortly; but I cannot remember the name of the small part you made so attractive in the 'Lyons
Mail.' It was the first one I had seen you in, and I wish to write my delightful impressions of it.

"Will you be so very kind as to tell me the name of your character and the two Mr. Irving acted
so wonderfully in that play?

"There is a brilliant blue sea before my windows, with purple mountains as a background and
silver-topped olives and rich green pines in the middle distance. I wish you could drop down
upon us in this golden land for a few days' holiday from your weary work.

"I would like to tell you what a big darling my husband is, and how perfectly happy he makes
my life--but there's no use trying.

"The last time we met I promised you a photo--here it is! One of my latest! And won't you send
me one of yours in private dress? DO!

"Forgive me for troubling you, and believe me your admirer

"MARY ANDERSON DE NAVARRO."

Henry and I were so fortunate as to gain the friendship and approval of Dr. Horace Howard Furness,
perhaps the finest Shakespearean scholar in America, and editor of the "Variorum Shakespeare,"
which Henry considered the best of all editions--"the one which counts." It was in Boston,
I think, that I disgraced myself at one of Dr. Furness's lectures. He was discussing "As You
Like It" and Rosalind, and proving with much elaboration that English in Shakespeare's time
was pronounced like a broad country dialect, and that Rosalind spoke Warwickshire! A little
girl who was sitting in the row in front of me had lent me her copy of the play a moment before,
and now, absorbed in Dr. Furness's argument, I forgot the book wasn't mine and began scrawling
controversial notes in it with my very thick and blotty fountain pen.

"Give me back my book! Give me my book!" screamed the little girl. "How dare you write in my
book!" She began to cry with rage.

Her mother tried to hush her up: "Don't, darling. Be quiet! It's Miss Ellen Terry."

"I don't care! She's spoilt my nice book!"

I am glad to say that when the little girl understood, she forgave me; and the spoilt book
is treasured very much by a tall Boston young lady of eighteen who has replaced the child of
seven years ago! Still, it was dreadful of me, and I did feel ashamed at the time.

I saw "As You Like It" acted in New York once with every part (except the man who let down
the curtain) played by a woman, and it was extraordinarily well done. The most remarkable bit
of acting was by Janauschek, who played Jacques. I have never heard the speech beginning "All
the world's a stage" delivered more finely, not even by Phelps, who was fine in the part.

Mary Shaw's Rosalind was good, and the Silvius (who played it, now?) was charming.

Unfortunately that one man, poor creature (no wonder he was nervous!), spoiled the end of the
play by failing to ring down the curtain, at which the laughter was immoderate! Janauschek
used to do a little sketch from the German called "Come Here!" which I afterwards did in England.

In November, 1901, I wrote in my diary: "Philadelphia.--Supper at Henry's. Jefferson there,
sweeter and more interesting than ever--and younger."

Dear Joe Jefferson--actor, painter, courteous gentleman, profound student of Shakespeare! When
the Bacon-Shakespeare controversy was raging in America (it really did rage there!) Jefferson
wrote the most delicious doggerel about it. He ridiculed, and his ridicule killed the Bacon
enthusiasts all the more dead because it was barbed with erudition.

He said that when I first came into the box to see him as "Rip" he thought I did not like him,
because I fidgeted and rustled and moved my place, as is my wicked way. "But I'll get her,
and I'll hold her," he said to himself. I was held indeed--enthralled.

In manner Jefferson was a little like Norman Forbes-Robertson. Perhaps that was why the two
took such a fancy to each other. When Norman was walking with Jefferson one day, some one who
met them said:

"Your son?"

"No," said Jefferson, "but I wish he were! The young man has such good manners!"

Our first American tours were in 1883 and 1884; the third in 1887-88, the year of the great
blizzard. Henry fetched us at half-past ten in the morning! His hotel was near the theater
where we were to play at night. He said the weather was stormy, and we had better make for
his hotel while there was time! The German actor Ludwig Barnay was to open in New York that
night, but the blizzard affected his nerves to such an extent that he did not appear at all,
and returned to Germany directly the weather improved!

Most of the theaters closed for three days, but we remained open, although there was a famine
in the town and the streets were impassable. The cold was intense. Henry sent Walter out to
buy some violets for Barnay, and when he brought them in to the dressing room--he had only
carried them a few yards--they were frozen so hard that they could have been chipped with a hammer!

We rang up on "Faust" three-quarters of an hour late! This was not bad considering all things.
Although the house was sold out, there was hardly any audience, and only a harp and two violins
in the orchestra. Discipline was so strong in the Lyceum company that every member of it reached
the theater by eight o'clock, although some of them had had to walk from Brooklyn Bridge.

The Mayor of New York and his daughter managed to reach their box somehow. Then we thought
it was time to begin. Some members of Daly's company, including John Drew, came in, and a few
friends. It was the oddest, scantiest audience! But the enthusiasm was terrific!

Five years went by before we visited America again. Five years in a country of rapid changes
is a long time, long enough for friends to forget! But they didn't forget. This time we made
new friends, too, in the Far West. We went to San Francisco, among other places. We attended
part of a performance at the Chinese theater. Oh, those rows of impenetrable faces gazing at
the stage with their long, shining, inexpressive eyes! What a look of the everlasting the Chinese
have! "We have been before you--we shall be after you," they seem to say.

Just as we were getting interested in the play, the interpreter rose and hurried us out. Something
that was not for the ears of women was being said, but we did not know it!

The chief incident of the fifth American tour was our production at Chicago of Laurence Irving's
one-act play "Godefroi and Yolande." I regard that little play as an inspiration. By instinct
the young author did everything right. The Chicago folk, in spite of the unpleasant theme of
the play, recognized the genius of it, and received it splendidly.

In 1901 I was ill, and hated the parts I was playing in America. The Lyceum was not what it
had been. Everything was changed.

In 1907--only the other day--I toured in America for the first time on my own account--playing
modern plays for the first time. I made new friends and found my old ones still faithful.

But this tour was chiefly momentous to me because at Pittsburg I was married for the third
time, and married to an American. My marriage was my own affair, but very few people seemed
to think so, and I was overwhelmed with "inquiries," kind and otherwise. Kindness and loyalty
won the day. "If any one deserves to be happy, you do," many a friend wrote. Well, I am happy,
and while I am happy, I cannot feel old.

XIII

THE MACBETH PERIOD

Perhaps Henry Irving and I might have gone on with Shakespeare to the end of the chapter if
he had not been in such a hurry to produce "Macbeth."

We ought to have done "As You Like It" in 1888, or "The Tempest." Henry thought of both these
plays. He was much attracted by the part of Caliban in "The Tempest," but, he said, "the young
lovers are everything, and where are we going to find them?" He would have played Touchstone
in "As You Like It," not Jacques, because Touchstone is in the vital part of the play.

He might have delayed both "Macbeth" and "Henry VIII." He ought to have added to his list of
Shakespearean productions "Julius Caesar," "King John," "As You Like It," "Antony and Cleopatra,"
"Richard II.," and "Timon of Athens." There were reasons "against," of course. In "Julius Caesar"
he wanted to play Brutus. "That's the part for the actor," he said, "because it needs acting.
But the actor-manager's part is Antony--Antony scores all along the line. Now when the actor
and actor-manager fight in a play, and when there is no part for you in it, I think it's wiser
to leave it alone."

Every one knows when the luck first began to turn against Henry Irving. It was in 1896 when
he revived "Richard III." On the first night he went home, slipped on the stairs in Grafton
Street, broke a bone in his knee, aggravated the hurt by walking on it, and had to close the
theater. It was that year, too, that his general health began to fail. For the ten years preceding
his death he carried on an indomitable struggle against ill-health. Lungs and heart alike were
weak. Only the spirit in that frail body remained as strong as ever. Nothing could bend it,
much less break it.

But I have not come to that sad time yet.

"We all know when we do our best," said Henry once. "We are the only people who know." Yet
he thought he did better in "Macbeth" than in "Hamlet"!

Was he right after all?

His view of "Macbeth," though attacked and derided and put to shame in many quarters, is as
clear to me as the sunlight itself. To me it seems as stupid to quarrel with the conception
as to deny the nose on one's face. But the carrying out of the conception was unequal. Henry's
imagination was sometimes his worst enemy.

When I think of his "Macbeth," I remember him most distinctly in the last act after the battle
when he looked like a great famished wolf, weak with the weakness of a giant exhausted, spent
as one whose exertions have been ten times as great as those of commoner men of rougher fiber
and coarser strength.

     "Of all men else I have avoided thee."

Once more he suggested, as he only could suggest, the power of Fate. Destiny seemed to hang
over him, and he knew that there was no hope, no mercy.

The rehearsals for "Macbeth" were very exhausting, but they were splendid to watch. In this
play Henry brought his manipulation of crowds to perfection. My acting edition of the play
is riddled with rough sketches by him of different groups. Artists to whom I have shown them
have been astonished by the spirited impressionism of these sketches. For his "purpose" Henry
seems to have been able to do anything, even to drawing, and composing music! Sir Arthur Sullivan's
music at first did not quite please him. He walked up and down the stage humming, and showing
the composer what he was going to do at certain situations. Sullivan, with wonderful quickness
and open-mindedness, caught his meaning at once.

"Much better than mine, Irving--much better--I'll rough it out at once!"

When the orchestra played the new version, based on that humming of Henry's, it was exactly
what he wanted!

Knowing what a task I had before me, I began to get anxious and worried about "Lady Mac." Henry
wrote me such a nice letter about this:

     "To-night, if possible, the last act. I want to get these great
     multitudinous scenes over and then we can attack our scenes....
     Your sensitiveness is so acute that you must suffer sometimes. You
     are not like anybody else--see things with such lightning quickness
     and unerring instinct that dull fools like myself grow irritable
     and impatient sometimes. I feel confused when I'm thinking of one
     thing, and disturbed by another. That's all. But I do feel very
     sorry afterwards when I don't seem to heed what I so much value....

     "I think things are going well, considering the time we've been at
     it, but I see so much that is wanting that it seems almost
     impossible to get through properly. 'To-night commence, Matthias.
     If you sleep, you are lost!'"[1]

[Footnote 1: A quotation from "The Bells."]

At this time we were able to be of the right use to each other. Henry could never have worked
with a very strong woman. I might have deteriorated, in partnership with a weaker man whose
ends were less fine, whose motives were less pure. I had the taste and artistic knowledge that
his upbringing had not developed in him. For years he did things to please me. Later on I gave
up asking him. In "King Lear" Mrs. Nettleship made him a most beautiful cloak, but he insisted
on wearing a brilliant purple velvet cloak with spangles all over it which swamped his beautiful
make-up and his beautiful acting. Poor Mrs. Nettleship was almost in tears.

"I'll never make you anything again--never!"

One of Mrs. "Nettle's" greatest triumphs was my Lady Macbeth dress, which she carried out from
Mrs. Comyns Carr's design. I am glad to think it is immortalized in Sargent's picture. From
the first I knew that picture was going to be splendid. In my diary for 1888 I was always writing
about it:

     "The picture of me is nearly finished, and I think it magnificent.
     The green and blue of the dress is splendid, and the expression as
     Lady Macbeth holds the crown over her head is quite wonderful.

     "Henschel is sitting to Sargent. His concerts, I hear, can't be
     carried on another year for want of funds. What a shame!

     "Mr. Sargent is painting a head of Henry--very good, but mean about
     the chin at present.

     "Sargent's picture is talked of everywhere and quarreled about as
     much as my way of playing the part.

     "Sargent's 'Lady Macbeth' in the New Gallery is a great success.
     The picture is the sensation of the year. Of course opinions differ
     about it, but there are dense crowds round it day after day. There
     is talk of putting it on exhibition by itself."

Since then it has gone over nearly the whole of Europe, and now is resting for life at the
Tate Gallery. Sargent suggested by this picture all that I should have liked to be able to
convey in my acting as Lady Macbeth.

     My Diary.--"Everybody hates Sargent's head of Henry. Henry also.
     I like it, but not altogether. I think it perfectly wonderfully
     painted and like him, only not at his best by any means. There sat
     Henry and there by his side the picture, and I could scarce tell
     one from t'other. Henry looked white, with tired eyes, and holes in
     his cheeks and bored to death! And there was the picture with white
     face, tired eyes, holes in the cheeks and boredom in every line.
     Sargent tried to paint his smile and gave it up."

Sargent said to me, I remember, upon Henry Irving's first visit to the studio to see the Macbeth
picture of me, "What a Saint!" This to my mind promised well--that Sargent should see that
side of Henry so swiftly. So then I never left off asking Henry to sit to Sargent, who wanted
to paint him too, and said to me continually, "What a head!"

     From my Diary.--"Sargent's picture is almost finished, and it is
     really splendid. Burne-Jones yesterday suggested two or three
     alterations about the color which Sargent immediately adopted, but
     Burne-Jones raves about the picture.

     "It ('Macbeth') is a most tremendous success, and the last three
     days' advance booking has been greater than ever was known, even at
     the Lyceum. Yes, it is a success, and I am a success, which amazes
     me, for never did I think I should be let down so easily. Some
     people hate me in it; some, Henry among them, think it my best
     part, and the critics differ, and discuss it hotly, which in itself
     is my best success of all! Those who don't like me in it are those
     who don't want, and don't like to read it fresh from Shakespeare,
     and who hold by the 'fiend' reading of the character.... One of the
     best things ever written on the subject, I think, is the essay of
     J. Comyns Carr. That is as hotly discussed as the new 'Lady
     Mac'--all the best people agreeing with it. Oh, dear! It is an
     exciting time!"

From a letter I wrote to my daughter, who was in Germany at the time:

     "I wish you could see my dresses. They are superb, especially the
     first one: green beetles on it, and such a cloak! The photographs
     give no idea of it at all, for it is in color that it is so
     splendid. The dark red hair is fine. The whole thing is
     Rossetti--rich stained-glass effects, I play some of it well, but,
     of course, I don't do what I want to do yet. Meanwhile I shall not
     budge an inch in the reading of it, for that I know is right. Oh,
     it's fun, but it's precious hard work for I by no means make her a
     'gentle, lovable woman' as some of 'em say. That's all pickles. She
     was nothing of the sort, although she was not a fiend, and did
     love her husband. I have to what is vulgarly called 'sweat at it,'
     each night."

The few people who liked my Lady Macbeth, liked it very much. I hope I am not vain to quote
this letter from Lady Pollock:

     "... Burne-Jones has been with me this afternoon: he was at
     'Macbeth' last night, and you filled his whole soul with your
     beauty and your poetry.... He says you were a great Scandinavian
     queen; that your presence, your voice, your movement made a
     marvelously poetic harmony; that your dress was grandly imagined
     and grandly worn--and that he cannot criticize--he can only
     remember."

But Burne-Jones by this time had become one of our most ardent admirers, and was prejudiced
in my favor because my acting appealed to his eye. Still, the drama is for the eye as well
as for the ear and the mind.

Very early I learned that one had best be ambitious merely to please oneself in one's work
a little--quietly. I coupled with this the reflection that one "gets nothing for nothing, and
damned little for sixpence!"

Here I was in the very noonday of life, fresh from Lady Macbeth and still young enough to play
Rosalind, suddenly called upon to play a rather uninteresting mother in "The Dead Heart." However,
my son Teddy made his first appearance in it, and had such a big success that I soon forgot
that for me the play was rather "small beer."

It had been done before, of course, by Benjamin Webster and George Vining. Henry engaged Bancroft
for the Abbé, a part of quite as much importance as his own. It was only a melodrama, but Henry
could always invest a melodrama with life, beauty, interest, mystery, by his methods of production.

     "I'm full of French Revolution," he wrote to me when he was
     preparing the play for rehearsal, "and could pass an examination.
     In our play, at the taking of the Bastile we must have a starving
     crowd--hungry, eager, cadaverous faces. If that can be well carried
     out, the effect will be very terrible, and the contrast to the
     other crowd (the red and fat crowd--the blood-gorged ones who look
     as if they'd been all drinking wine--red wine, as Dickens says)
     would be striking.... It's tiresome stuff to read, because it
     depends so much on situations. I have been touching the book up
     though, and improved it here and there, I think.

     "A letter this morning from the illustrious Blank offering me his
     prompt book to look at.... I think I shall borrow the treasure. Why
     not? Of course he will say that he has produced the play and all
     that sort of thing; but what does that matter, if one can only get
     one hint out of it?

     "The longer we live, the more we see that if we only do our own
     work thoroughly well, we can be independent of everything else or
     anything that may be said....

     "I see in Landry a great deal of Manette--that same vacant gaze
     into years gone by when he crouched in his dungeon nursing his
     wrongs....

     "I shall send you another book soon to put any of your alterations
     and additions in. I've added a lot of little things with a few
     lines for you--very good, I think, though I say it as shouldn't--I
     know you'll laugh! They are perhaps not startling original, but
     better than the original, anyhow! Here they are--last act!

     "'Ah, Robert, pity me. By the recollections of our youth, I implore
     you to save my boy!' (Now for 'em!)

     "'If my voice recalls a tone that ever fell sweetly upon your ear,
     have pity on me! If the past is not a blank, if you once loved,
     have pity on me!' (Bravo!)

     "Now I call that very good, and if the 'If and the 'pitys' don't
     bring down the house, well it's a pity! I pity the pittites!

     "... I've just been copying out my part in an account book--a
     little more handy to put in one's pocket. It's really very short,
     but difficult to act, though, and so is yours. I like this 'piling
     up' sort of acting, and I am sure you will, when you play the part.
     It's restful. 'The Bells' is that sort of thing."

The crafty old Henry! All this was to put me in conceit with my part!

Many people at this time put me in conceit with my son, including dear Burne-Jones with his
splendid gift of impulsive enthusiasm.

"THE GRANGE, "WEST KENSINGTON, W. "Sunday.

"Most Dear Lady,--

"I thought all went wonderfully last night, and no sign could I see of hitch or difficulty;
and as for your boy, he looked a lovely little gentleman--and in his cups was perfect, not
overdoing by the least touch a part always perilously easy to overdo. I too had the impertinence
to be a bit nervous for you about him, but not when he appeared--so altogether I was quite happy.

"... Irving was very noble--I thought I had never seen his face so beautified before--no, that
isn't the word, and to hunt for the right one would be so like judicious criticism that I won't.
Exalted and splendid it was--and you were you--YOU--and so all was well. I rather wanted more
shouting and distant roar in the Bastille Scene--since the walls fell, like Jericho, by noise.
A good dreadful growl always going on would have helped, I thought--and that was the only point
where I missed anything.

"And I was very glad you got your boy back again and that Mr. Irving was ready to have his
head cut off for you; so it had what I call a good ending, and I am in bright spirits to-day,
and ever

"Your real friend,

"E.B.-J."

"I would come and growl gladly."

There were terrible strikes all over England when we were playing "The Dead Heart." I could
not help sympathizing with the strikers ... yet reading all about the French Revolution as
I did then, I can't understand how the French nation can be proud of it when one remembers
how they butchered their own great men, the leaders of the movement--Camille Desmoulins, Danton,
Robespierre and the others. My man is Camille Desmoulins. I just love him.

Plays adapted from novels are generally unsatisfactory. A whole story cannot be conveyed in
three hours, and every reader of the story looks for something not in the play. Wills took
from "The Vicar of Wakefield" an episode and did it right well, but there was no episode in
"The Bride of Lammermoor" for Merivale to take. He tried to traverse the whole ground, and
failed. But he gave me some lovely things to do in Lucy Ashton. I had to lose my poor wits,
as in Ophelia, in the last act, and with hardly a word to say I was able to make an effect.
The love scene at the well I did nicely too.

Seymour Lucas designed splendid dresses for this play. My "Ravenswood" riding dress set a fashion
in ladies' coats for quite a long time. Mine was copied by Mr. Lucas from a leather coat of
Lord Mohun's. He is said to have had it on when he was killed. At any rate there was a large
stab in the back of the coat, and a blood-stain.

This was my first speculation in play-buying! I saw it acted, and thought I could do something
with it. Henry would not buy it, so I did! He let me do it first in front of a revival of "The
Corsican Brothers" in 1891. It was a great success, although my son and I did not know a word
on the first night and had our parts written out and pinned all over the furniture on the stage!
Dear old Mr. Howe wrote to me that Teddy's performance was "more than creditable; it was exceedingly
good and full of character, and with your own charming performance the piece was a great success."
Since 1891 I must have played "Nance Oldfield" hundreds of times, but I never had an Alexander
Oldworthy so good as my own son, although such talented young actors as Martin Harvey, Laurence
Irving and, more recently, Harcourt Williams have all played it with me.

Henry's pride as Cardinal Wolsey seemed to eat him. How wonderful he looked (though not fat
and self-indulgent like the pictures of the real Wolsey) in his flame-colored robes! He had
the silk dyed specially by the dyers to the Cardinal's College in Rome. Seymour Lucas designed
the clothes. It was a magnificent production, but not very interesting to me. I played Katherine
much better ten years later at Stratford-on-Avon at the Shakespeare Memorial Festival. I was
stronger then, and more reposeful. This letter from Burne-Jones about "Henry VIII." is a delightful
tribute to Henry Irving's treatment of the play:

"My Dear Lady,--

"We went last night to the play (at my theater) to see Henry VIII.--Margaret and Mackail and
I. It was delicious to go out again and see mankind, after such evil days. How kind they were
to me no words can say--I went in at a private door and then into a cosy box and back the same
way, swiftly, and am marvelously the better for the adventure. No YOU, alas!

"I have written to Mr. Irving just to thank him for his great kindness in making the path of
pleasure so easy, for I go tremblingly at present. But I could not say to him what I thought
of the Cardinal--a sort of shame keeps one from saying to an artist what one thinks of his
work--but to you I can say how nobly he warmed up the story of the old religion to my exacting
mind in that impersonation. I shall think always of dying monarchy in his Charles--and always
of dying hierarchy in his Wolsey. How Protestant and dull all grew when that noble type had gone!

"I can't go to church till red cardinals come back (and may they be of exactly that red) nor
to Court till trumpets and banners come back--nor to evening parties till the dances are like
that dance. What a lovely young Queen has been found. But there was no YOU.... Perhaps it was
as well. I couldn't have you slighted even in a play, and put aside. When I go back to see
you, as I soon will, it will be easier. Mr. Irving let me know you would not act, and proposed
that I should go later on--wasn't that like him? So I sat with my children and was right happy;
and, as usual, the streets looked dirty, and all the people muddy and black as we came away.
Please not to answer this stuff.

"Ever yours affectionately,

"E.B.-J.

"--I wish that Cardinal could have been made Pope, and sat with his foot on the Earl of Surrey's
neck. Also I wish to be a Cardinal; but then I sometimes want to be a pirate. We can't have
all we want.

"Your boy was very kind--I thought the race of young men who are polite and attentive to old
fading ones had passed away with antique pageants--but it isn't so."

When the Duke and Duchess of Devonshire gave the famous fancy dress ball at Devonshire House,
Henry attended it in the robes which had appealed so strongly to Burne-Jones's imaginative
eye. I was told by one who was present at this ball that as the Cardinal swept up the staircase,
his long train held magnificently over his arm, a sudden wave of reality seemed to sweep upstairs
with him, and reduce to the prettiest make-believe all the aristocratic masquerade that surrounded
him.

I renewed my acquaintance with "Henry VIII." in 1902, when I played Queen Katherine for Mr.
Benson during the Shakespeare Memorial performances in April. I was pretty miserable at the
time--the Lyceum reign was dying, and taking an unconscionably long time about it, which made
the position all the more difficult. Henry Irving was reviving "Faust"--a wise step, as it
had been his biggest "money-maker"--and it was impossible that I could play Margaret. There
are some young parts that the actress can still play when she is no longer young: Beatrice,
Portia, and many others come to mind. But I think that when the character is that of a young
girl the betrayal of whose innocence is the main theme of the play, no amount of skill on the
part of the actress can make up for the loss of youth.

Suggestions were thrown out to me (not by Henry Irving, but by others concerned) that although
I was too old for Margaret, I might play Martha! Well! well! I didn't quite see that. So I
redeemed a promise given in jest at the Lyceum to Frank Benson twenty years earlier, and went
off to Stratford-upon-Avon to play in Henry VIII.

Mr. Benson was wonderful to work with. "I am proud to think," he wrote me just before our few
rehearsals began, "that I have trained my folk (as I was taught by my elders and betters at
the Lyceum) to be pretty quick at adapting themselves to anything that may be required of them,
so that you need not be uneasy as to their not fitting in with your business."

"My folk," as Mr. Benson called them, were excellent, especially Surrey (Harcourt Williams),
Norfolk (Matheson Lang), Caperius (Fitzgerald), and Griffith (Nicholson). "Harcourt Williams,"
I wrote in my diary on the day of the dress-rehearsal, "will be heard of very shortly. He played
Edgar in 'Lear' much better than Terriss, although not so good an actor yet."

I played Katherine on Shakespeare's Birthday--such a lovely day, bright and sunny and warm.
The performance went finely--and I made a little speech afterwards which was quite a success.
I was presented publicly on the stage with the Certificate of Governorship of the Memorial Theater.

During these pleasant days at Stratford, I went about in between the performances of "Henry
VIII."--which was, I think, given three times a week for three weeks--seeing the lovely country
and lovely friends who live there. A visit to Broadway and to beautiful Madame de Navarro (Mary
Anderson) was particularly delightful. To see her looking so handsome, robust and fresh--so
happy in her beautiful home, gave me the keenest pleasure. I also went to Stanways--the Elchos'
home--a fascinating place. Lady Elcho showed me all over it, and she was not the least lovely
thing in it.

In Stratford I was rebuked by the permanent inhabitants for being kind to a little boy in professionally
ragged clothing who made me, as he has made hundreds of others, listen to a long, made-up history
of Stratford-on-Avon, Shakespeare, the Merchant of Venice, Julius Caesar and other things--the
most hopeless mix! The inhabitants assured me that the boy was a little rascal, who begged
and extorted money from visitors by worrying them with his recitation until they paid him to
leave them alone.

Long before I knew that the child was such a reprobate I had given him a pass to the gallery
and a Temple Shakespeare! I derived such pleasure from his version of the "Mercy" speech from
"The Merchant of Venice" that I still think he was ill-paid!

    "The quality of mercy is not strange
    It droppeth as the gentle rain from 'Eaven
    Upon the place beneath; it is twicet bless.
    It blesseth in that gives and in that takes
    It is in the mightiest--in the mightiest
    It becomes the throned monuk better than its crownd.

    It's an appribute to God inself
    It is in the thorny 'earts of kings
    But not in the fit and dread of kings."

I asked the boy what he meant to be when he was a man. He answered with decision: "A reciterer."

I also asked him what he liked best in the play ("Henry VIII.").

"When the blind went up and down and you smiled," he replied--surely a naïve compliment to
my way of "taking a call"! Further pressed, he volunteered: "When you lay on the bed and died
to please the angels."

XIV

LAST DAYS AT THE LYCEUM

I had exactly ten years more with Henry Irving after "Henry VIII." During that time we did
"King Lear," "Becket," "King Arthur," "Cymbeline," "Madame Sans-Gêne," "Peter the Great" and
"The Medicine Man." I feel too near to these productions to write about them. The first night
of "Cymbeline" I felt almost dead. Nothing seemed right. "Everything is so slow, so slow,"
I wrote in my diary. "I don't feel a bit inspired, only dull and hide-bound." Yet Imogen was,
I think, the only inspired performance of these later years. On the first night of "Sans-Gêne"
I acted courageously and fairly well. Every one seemed to be delighted. The old Duke of Cambridge
patted, or rather thumped, me on the shoulder and said kindly: "Ah, my dear, you can act!"
Henry quite effaced me in his wonderful sketch of Napoleon. "It seems to me some nights," I
wrote in my diary at the time, "as if I were watching Napoleon trying to imitate H.I., and
I find myself immensely interested and amused in the watchings."

"The Medicine Man" was, in my opinion, our only quite unworthy production.

     From my Diary.--"Poor Taber has such an awful part in the play,
     and mine is even worse. It is short enough, yet I feel I can't cut
     too much of it.... The gem of the whole play is my hair! Not waved
     at all, and very filmy and pale. Henry, I admit, is splendid; but
     oh, it is all such rubbish!... If 'Manfred' and a few such plays
     are to succeed this, I simply must do something else."

But I did not! I stayed on, as every one knows, when the Lyceum as a personal enterprise of
Henry's was no more--when the farcical Lyceum Syndicate took over the theater. I played a wretched
part in "Robespierre," and refused £12,000 to go to America with Henry in "Dante."

In these days Henry was a changed man. He became more republican and less despotic as a producer.
He left things to other people. As an actor he worked as faithfully as ever.

Henry Irving did not treat me badly. I hope I did not treat him badly. He revived "Faust" and
produced "Dante." I would have liked to stay with him to the end of the chapter, but there
was nothing for me to act in either of these plays. But we never quarreled. Our long partnership
dissolved naturally. It was all very sad, but it could not be helped.

It has always been a reproach against Henry Irving in some mouths that he neglected the modern
English playwright; and of course the reproach included me to a certain extent. I was glad,
then, to show that I could act in the new plays when Mr. Barrie wrote "Alice-sit-by-the-Fire"
for me, and after some years' delay I was able to play in Mr. Bernard Shaw's "Captain Brassbound's
Conversion." Of course I could not have played in "little" plays of this school at the Lyceum
with Henry Irving, even if I had wanted to! They are essentially plays for small theaters.

In Mr. Shaw's "A Man of Destiny" there were two good parts, and Henry, at my request, considered
it, although it was always difficult to fit a one-act play into the Lyceum bill. For reasons
of his own Henry never produced Mr. Shaw's play and there was a good deal of fuss made about
it at the time (1897). But ten years ago Mr. Shaw was not so well known as he is now, and the
so-called "rejection" was probably of use to him as an advertisement!

"A Man of Destiny" has been produced since, but without any great success. I wonder if Henry
and I could have done more with it?

At this time Mr. Shaw and I frequently corresponded. It began by my writing to ask him, as
musical critic of the Saturday Review, to tell me frankly what he thought of the chances of
a composer-singer friend of mine. He answered "characteristically," and we developed a perfect
fury for writing to each other! Sometimes the letters were on business, sometimes they were
not, but always his were entertaining, and mine were, I suppose, "good copy," as he drew the
character of Lady Cecily Waynflete in "Brassbound" entirely from my letters. He never met me
until after the play was written. In 1902 he sent me this ultimatum:

"April 3, 1902.

"Mr. Bernard Shaw's compliments to Miss Ellen Terry.

"Mr. Bernard Shaw has been approached by Mrs. Langtry with a view to the immediate and splendid
production of 'Captain Brassbound's Conversion.'

"Mr. Bernard Shaw, with the last flash of a trampled-out love, has repulsed Mrs. Langtry with
a petulance bordering on brutality.

"Mr. Bernard Shaw has been actuated in this ungentlemanly and unbusinesslike course by an angry
desire to seize Miss Ellen Terry by the hair and make her play Lady Cicely.

"Mr. Bernard Shaw would be glad to know whether Miss Ellen Terry wishes to play Martha at the
Lyceum instead.

"Mr. Bernard Shaw will go to the length of keeping a minor part open for Sir Henry Irving when
'Faust' fails, if Miss Ellen Terry desires it.

"Mr. Bernard Shaw lives in daily fear of Mrs. Langtry's recovering sufficiently from her natural
resentment of his ill manners to reopen the subject.

"Mr. Bernard Shaw begs Miss Ellen Terry to answer this letter.

"Mr. Bernard Shaw is looking for a new cottage or house in the country, and wants advice on
the subject.

"Mr. Bernard Shaw craves for the sight of Miss Ellen Terry's once familiar handwriting."

The first time he came to my house I was not present, but a young American lady who had long
adored him from the other side of the Atlantic took my place as hostess (I was at the theater
as usual); and I took great pains to have everything looking nice! I spent a long time putting
out my best blue china, and ordered a splendid dinner, quite forgetting the honored guest generally
dined off a Plasmon biscuit and a bean!

Mr. Shaw read "Arms and the Man" to my young American friend (Miss Satty Fairchild) without
even going into the dining-room where the blue china was spread out to delight his eye. My
daughter Edy was present at the reading, and appeared so much absorbed in some embroidery,
and paid the reader so few compliments about his play, that he expressed the opinion that she
behaved as if she had been married to him for twenty years!

The first time I ever saw Mr. Shaw in the flesh--I hope he will pardon me such an anti-vegetarian
expression--was when he took his call after the first production of "Captain Brassbound's Conversion"
by the Stage Society. He was quite unlike what I had imagined from his letters.

When at last I was able to play in "Captain Brassbound's Conversion," I found Bernard Shaw
wonderfully patient at rehearsal. I look upon him as a good, kind, gentle creature whose "brain-storms"
are just due to the Irishman's love of a fight; they never spring from malice or anger. It
doesn't answer to take Bernard Shaw seriously. He is not a man of convictions. That is one
of the charms of his plays--to me at least. One never knows how the cat is really jumping.
But it jumps. Bernard Shaw is alive, with nine lives, like that cat!

On Whit Monday, 1902, I received a telegram from Mr. Tree saying that he was coming down to
Winchelsea to see me on "an important matter of business." I was at the time suffering from
considerable depression about the future.

The Stratford-on-Avon visit had inspired me with the feeling that there was life in the old
'un yet and had distracted my mind from the strangeness of no longer being at the Lyceum permanently
with Henry Irving. But there seemed to be nothing ahead, except two matinées a week with him
at the Lyceum, to be followed by a provincial tour in which I was only to play twice a week,
as Henry's chief attraction was to be "Faust." This sort of "dowager" engagement did not tempt
me. Besides, I hated the idea of drawing a large salary and doing next to no work.

So when Mr. Tree proposed that I should play Mrs. Page (Mrs. Kendal being Mrs. Ford) in "The
Merry Wives of Windsor" at His Majesty's, it was only natural that I should accept the offer
joyfully. I telegraphed to Henry Irving, asking him if he had any objection to my playing at
His Majesty's. He answered: "Quite willing if proposed arrangements about matinées are adhered to."

I have thought it worth while to give the facts about this engagement, because so many people
seemed at the time, and afterwards, to think that I had treated Henry Irving badly by going
to play in another theater, and that theater one where a certain rivalry with the Lyceum as
regards Shakespearean productions had grown up. There was absolutely no foundation for the
rumors that my "desertion" caused further estrangement between Henry Irving and me.

"Heaven give you many, many merry days and nights," he telegraphed to me on the first night;
and after that first night (the jolliest that I ever saw), he wrote delighting in my success.

It was a success--there was no doubt about it! Some people accused the Merry Wives of rollicking
and "mafficking" overmuch--but these were the people who forgot that we were acting in a farce,
and that farce is farce, even when Shakespeare is the author.

All the summer I enjoyed myself thoroughly. It was all such good fun--Mrs. Kendal was so clever
and delightful to play with, Mr. Tree so indefatigable in discovering new funny "business."

After the dress-rehearsal I wrote in my diary: "Edy has real genius for dresses for the stage."
My dress for Mrs. Page was such a real thing--it helped me enormously--and I was never more
grateful for my daughter's gift than when I played Mrs. Page.

It was an admirable all-round cast--almost a "star" cast: Oscar Asche as Ford, poor Henry Kemble
(since dead) as Dr. Caius, Courtice Pounds as Sir Hugh Evans, and Mrs. Tree as sweet Anne Page
all rowed in the boat with precisely the right swing. There were no "passengers" in the cast.
The audience at first used to seem rather amazed! This thwacking rough-and-tumble, Rabelaisian
horse-play--Shakespeare! Impossible! But as the evening went on we used to capture even the
most civilized, and force them to return to a simple Elizabethan frame of mind.

In my later career I think I have had no success like this! Letters rained on me--yes, even
love-letters, as if, to quote Mrs. Page, I were still in "the holiday-time of my beauty." As
I would always rather make an audience laugh than see them weep, it may be guessed how much
I enjoyed the hearty laughter at His Majesty's during the run of the madcap absurdity of "The
Merry Wives of Windsor."

All the time I was at His Majesty's I continued to play in matinées of "Charles I." and "The
Merchant of Venice" at the Lyceum with Henry Irving. We went on negotiating, too, about the
possibility of my appearing in "Dante," which Sardou had written specially for Irving, and
on which he was relying for his next tour in America.

On the 19th of July, 1902, I acted at the Lyceum for the very last time, although I did not
know it then. These last Lyceum days were very sad. The reception given by Henry to the Indian
Princes, who were in England for the Coronation, was the last flash of the splendid hospitality
which had for so many years been one of the glories of the theater.

During my provincial tour with Henry Irving in the autumn of this year I thought long and anxiously
over the proposition that I should play in "Dante." I heard the play read, and saw no possible
part for me in it. I refused a large sum of money to go to America with Henry Irving because
I could not consent to play a part even worse than the one that I had played in "Robespierre."
As things turned out, although "Dante" did fairly well at Drury Lane, the Americans would have
none of it and Henry had to fall back upon his répertoire.

Having made the decision against "Dante," I began to wonder what I should do. My partnership
with Henry Irving was definitely broken, most inevitably and naturally "dissolved." There were
many roads open to me. I chose one which was, from a financial point of view, madness.

Instead of going to America, and earning £12,000, I decided to take a theater with my son,
and produce plays in conjunction with him.

I had several plays in view--an English translation of a French play about the patient Griselda,
and a comedy by Miss Clo Graves among them. Finally, I settled upon Ibsen's "Vikings."

We read it aloud on Christmas Day, and it seemed tremendous. Not in my most wildly optimistic
moments did I think Hiordis, the chief female character--a primitive, fighting, free, open-air
person--suited to me, but I saw a way of playing her more brilliantly and less weightily than
the text suggested, and anyhow I was not thinking so much of the play for me as for my son.
He had just produced Mr. Laurence Houseman's Biblical play "Bethlehem" in the hall of the Imperial
Institute, and every one had spoken highly of the beauty of his work. He had previously applied
the same principles to the mounting of operas by Handel and Purcell.

It had been a great grief to me when I lost my son as an actor. I have never known any one
with so much natural gift for the stage. Unconsciously he did everything right--I mean all
the technical things over which some of us have to labor for years. The first part that he
played at the Lyceum, Arthur St. Valery in "The Dead Heart," was good, and he went on steadily
improving. The last part that he played at the Lyceum--Edward IV. in "Richard III."--was, maternal
prejudice quite apart, a most remarkable performance.

His record for 1891, when he was still a mere boy, was: Claudio (in "Much Ado about Nothing"),
Mercutio, Modus, Charles Surface, Alexander Oldworthy, Moses (in "Olivia"), Lorenzo, Malcolm,
Beauchamp; Meynard, and the Second Grave-Digger!

Later on he played Hamlet, Macbeth and Romeo on a small provincial tour. His future as an actor
seemed assured, but it wasn't! One day when he was with William Nicholson, the clever artist
and one of the Beggarstaff Brothers of poster fame, he began chipping at a woodblock in imitation
of Nicholson, and produced in a few hours an admirable wood-cut of Walt Whitman, then and always
his particular hero. From that moment he had the "black and white" fever badly. Acting for
a time seemed hardly to interest him at all. When his interest in the theater revived, it was
not as an actor but as a stage director that he wanted to work.

What more natural than that his mother should give him the chance of exploiting his ideas in
London? Ideas he had in plenty--"unpractical" ideas people called them; but what else should
ideas be?

At the Imperial Theater, where I spent my financially unfortunate season in April 1903, I gave
my son a free hand. I hope it will be remembered, when I am spoken of by the youngest critics
after my death as a "Victorian" actress, lacking in enterprise, an actress belonging to the
"old school," that I produced a spectacular play of Ibsen's in a manner which possibly anticipated
the scenic ideas of the future by a century, of which at any rate the orthodox theater managers
of the present age would not have dreamed.

Naturally I am not inclined to criticize my son's methods. I think there is a great deal to
be said for the views that he has expressed in his pamphlet on "The Art of the Theater," and
when I worked with him I found him far from unpractical. It was the modern theater which was
unpractical when he was in it! It was wrongly designed, wrongly built. We had to disembowel
the Imperial behind scenes before he could even start, and then the great height of the proscenium
made his lighting lose all its value. He always considered the pictorial side of the scene
before its dramatic significance, arguing that this significance lay in the picture and in
movement--the drama having originated not with the poet but with the dancer.

When his idea of dramatic significance clashed with Ibsen's, strange things would happen.

Mr. Bernard Shaw, though impressed by my son's work and the beauty that he brought on to the
stage of the Imperial, wrote to me that the symbolism of the first act according to Ibsen should
be Dawn, youth rising with the morning sun, reconciliation, rich gifts, brightness, lightness,
pleasant feelings, peace. On to this sunlit scene stalks Hiordis, a figure of gloom, revenge,
of feud eternal, of relentless hatred and uncompromising unforgetfulness of wrong. At the Imperial,
said Mr. Shaw, the curtain rose on profound gloom. When you could see anything you saw eld
and severity--old men with white hair impersonating the gallant young sons of Ornulf--everywhere
murky cliffs and shadowy spears, melancholy--darkness!

Into this symbolic night enter, in a blaze of limelight, a fair figure robed in complete fluffy
white fur, a gay and bright Hiordis with a timid manner and hesitating utterance.

The last items in the topsy-turviness of my son's practical significance were entirely my fault!
Mr. Shaw was again moved to compliments when I revived "Much Ado about Nothing" under my son's
direction at the Imperial. "The dance was delightful, but I would suggest the substitution
of trained dancers for untrained athletes," he wrote.

I singed my wings a good deal in the Imperial limelight, which, although our audience complained
of the darkness on the stage, was the most serious drain on my purse. But a few provincial
tours did something towards restoring some of the money that I had lost in management.

On one of these tours I produced "The Good Hope," a play by the Dutch dramatist, Heijermans,
dealing with life in a fishing village. Done into simple and vigorous English by Christopher
St. John, the play proved a great success in the provinces. This was almost as new a departure
for me as my season at the Imperial. The play was essentially modern in construction and development--full
of action, but the action of incident rather than the action of stage situation. It had no
"star" parts, but every part was good, and the gloom of the story was made bearable by the
beauty of the atmosphere--of the sea, which played a bigger part in it than any of the visible
characters.

For the first time I played an old woman, a very homely old peasant woman too. It was not a
big part, but it was interesting, and in the last act I had a little scene in which I was able
to make the same kind of effect that I had made years before in the last act of "Ravenswood"--an
effect of quiet and stillness.

I flattered myself that I was able to assume a certain roughness and solidity of the peasantry
in "The Good Hope," but although I stumbled about heavily in large sabots, I was told by the
critics that I walked like a fairy and was far too graceful for a Dutch fisherwoman! It is
a case of "Give a dog a bad name and hang him"--the bad name in my case being "a womanly woman"!
What this means I scarcely apprehend, but I fancy it is intended to signify (in an actress)
something sweet, pretty, soft, appealing, gentle and underdone. Is it possible that I convey
that impression when I try to assume the character of a washerwoman or a fisherwoman? If so
I am a very bad actress!

My last Shakespearean part was Hermione in "A Winter's Tale." By some strange coincidence it
fell to me to play it exactly fifty years after I had played the little boy Mamilius in the
same play. I sometimes think that Fate is the best of stage managers! Hermione is a gravely
beautiful part--well-balanced, difficult to act, but certain in its appeal. If only it were
possible to put on the play in a simple way and arrange the scenes to knit up the raveled interest,
I should hope to play Hermione again.

MY STAGE JUBILEE

When I had celebrated my stage jubilee in 1906, I suddenly began to feel exuberantly young
again. It was very inappropriate, but I could not help it.

The recognition of my fifty years of stage life by the public and by my profession was quite
unexpected. Henry Irving had said to me not long before his death in 1905 that he believed
that they (the theatrical profession) "intended to celebrate our jubilee." (If he had lived
he would have completed his fifty years on the stage in the autumn of 1906.) He said that there
would be a monster performance at Drury Lane, and that already the profession were discussing
what form it was to take.

After his death, I thought no more of the matter. Indeed I did not want to think about it,
for any recognition of my jubilee which did not include his, seemed to me very unnecessary.

Of course I was pleased that others thought it necessary. I enjoyed all the celebrations. Even
the speeches that I had to make did not spoil my enjoyment. But all the time I knew perfectly
well that the great show of honor and "friending" was not for me alone. Never for one instant
did I forget this, nor that the light of the great man by whose side I had worked for a quarter
of a century was still shining on me from his grave.

The difficulty was to thank people as they deserved. Stammering speeches could not do it, but
I hope that they all understood. "I were but little happy, if I could say how much."

Kindness on kindness's head accumulated! There was The Tribune testimonial. I can never forget
that London's youngest newspaper first conceived the idea of celebrating my Stage Jubilee.[1]

[Footnote 1: I am sorry to say that since I wrote this The Tribune, after a gallant fight for
life, has gone to join the company of the courageous enterprises which have failed.]

The matinée given in my honor at Drury Lane by the theatrical profession was a wonderful sight.
The two things about it which touched me most deeply were my reception by the crowd who were
waiting to get into the gallery when I visited them at two in the morning, and the presence
of Eleonora Duse, who came all the way from Florence just to honor me. She told me afterwards
that she would have come from South Africa or from Heaven, had she been there! I appreciated
very much too, the kindness of Signor Caruso in singing for me. I did not know him at all,
and the gift of his service was essentially the impersonal desire of an artist to honor another
artist.

I was often asked during these jubilee days, "how I felt about it all," and I never could answer
sensibly. The strange thing is that I don't know even now what was in my heart. Perhaps it
was one of my chief joys that I had not to say good-bye at any of the celebrations. I could
still speak to my profession as a fellow-comrade on the active list, and to the public as one
still in their service.

