"The Sheffield trades require and promote the Fine Arts in many ways. Chantrey was a carver
and gilder here, and many persons in Sheffield were his first patrons, when he began to model.
He was a native of Norton, where his parents still reside, and his first youthful employment
was that of bringing milk to the town on asses, as is the present custom. At present, Mr. Law
is an exquisite modeller in wax; and there are some ladies who copy the best pictures with
a degree of taste and perfection which is astonishing. I allude particularly to those of Miss
Green, of Westville House, and Miss Sambourne, at Highfield Green. Then this district possesses
a treasure in Mr. Cowen, of Rotherham, whose merit as a landscape painter, has recommended
him to the zealous patronage of Earl Fitzwilliam and the Duke of Devonshire. I confess I have
never seen more exquisitely finished and more poetical productions."

Improvements, &c.

"The Shrewsbury Hospital, at Sheffield, has lately been rebuilt in an improved situation, by
Messrs. Woodhead and Hurst, of Doncaster. It accommodates eighteen aged men and eighteen women
in a very convenient manner. It has been liberally supported by the present Duke of Norfolk,
and is managed by trustees of his nomination. The men are allowed 10s. per week, and the women
8s. There is also another hospital, founded by a Mr. Hollis, a Sheffield cutler; as a provision
for sixteen cutlers' widows, who besides habitations, receive 7s. per week, coals, and a gown
every two years.

"In conclusion I have assembled some miscellaneous facts. Sheffield parish is ten miles by
three. The Park of 2,000 acres was inclosed in Queen Anne's time.

"The Duke of Norfolk is Lord of the Manor, from his ancestors the Lovetots, Furnivals, Nevilles,
Talbots, and Howards.

"Roger de Busli had 46 manors in Yorkshire, and in Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire 179.

"The Cutlers' Company was incorporated 21st James I.--The cutlers are 8,000 or 10,000 in number.

"In 1751, the first stage-wagon went from Sheffield to London. In 1762, the first stage-coach.

"In 1752, the plated manufacture began.

"In 1770, the first bank was opened.

"In 1786, the first steam-engine grinding-wheel was established.

"The casting or melting of steel began 60 years ago, till which time Swedish bar-steel was used.

"There are iron-forges near every Roman station, and Abbey Dale is full of cinders from smelting,
with apertures to windward to serve as blasts.

"Beds of scoriae found in the parish, on which trees grow, and in old pleasure parks.--Roman
coins are also found in scoria.--A quarry of stone at Wincobank Hill, contains fossilized vegetables,
chiefly calamites. They are succulent, and of the bamboo family. In the coal districts, branches
and trunks of trees are found; and Mr. Rhodes took out of solid stone, a fossil post of walnut
wood. South-east of Tickhill, is an accumulation of subterranean trees, in black earth, mixed
with shells and rounded stones.

"It is believed at Sheffield, that the executioner of Charles I., was a person of the name
of William Walker, a native of Darnall, near Sheffield. Such was the tradition at his native
place. He died at Darnall in 1700 and was buried in Sheffield church, where there was a brass
plate to his memory. It is certain that a Walker, was one of the masks, and that this Walker
was an active partizan: but he was a man of learning, and wrote some tracts on mathematics
and politics.

"Dr. Buchan, began his career as a Scotch physician at Sheffield, and actually wrote his famous
'Domestic Medicine,' in the house at the south corner of Hartshead, in which for many years
has resided Mr. J. Montgomery."

The varied and attractive character of our extract is the best plea for its length; but reading
like this never tires.---Sir R. Phillips' Personal Tour.

       *       *       *       *       *

