Both laughed, but Mary, more serious and sober-minded, was already slicing ham and greasing
a frying-pan. "We need water, Lil--get some snow while I find the tea. The bread is hard, but
there'll be coals presently, and we shall have toast. Lucky there were baked potatoes left
over from last night's camp; they'll fry up fine along with this--" But already Lil was outside
gathering snow.

She returned in breathless excitement. "Oh, Mary, I've just had a great thought. All my wedding
china--presents, you know--is in that box, and I have my wedding clothes, too. Have you yours?"

"Of course. But why--"

"Why, dear, don't you see? The men are busy shovelling a path into the stable. It'll be an
hour yet before they are in. Let's put on our wedding dresses, and set the table with our best
dishes and best linen, just for a kind of post-nuptial. Let's!"

"But ham and fried potatoes!"

"And toast. Didn't you promise toast? And tea. And I'll wager there's some jam among provisions.
Oh, let's hurry."

An hour later, when the hungry men returned after making their horses and cattle comfortable,
they stopped in amazement at the sight that confronted them. Snowy linen, delicate china, and
sparkling glass returned the soft light from one of those great lamps such as are bought only
for presentation; and beside the table, like fairies spirited from a strange land, stood two
beautiful women, robed in the delicate draperies of their bridal hour. Exclamations of surprise
were drowned in a flood of tender associations, and never in palace or banquet-hall did sweeter
content and happiness reign than among these four young pioneers as they sat down to their
first home-served meal in the new land.

The days that followed were days of intense activity for both men and women. There was much
to do, inside and out. In the interior of the little house an extraordinary change was wrought;
simple draperies and pictures relieved the bareness of the walls; shelves were built for the
accommodation of many trinkets dear to the feminine heart; a rag carpet covered the centre
of the floor; plain but appetising dishes peeked enticingly from behind the paper curtain that
now clothed the bare ribs of the cupboard; and a sense of homeliness pervaded the atmosphere.
The two men, in their own realm, had found much to occupy them, although for some days the
range of their activities was limited owing to the necessity of giving the horses a much-needed
rest before putting them back into the harness.

A week had passed, and no sign of life, other than that of the little party itself, had been
seen about the Arthurses' homestead, when one day Harris's eyes already becoming keen to the
prairie distances, espied a dark point on the horizon. It grew slowly from a point to a spot,
from a spot to an object, and at length was defined as a man on horseback. Presently Aleck
McCrae drew up at the door.

"Hello, farmers," he cried, "how goes the battle? An' the good wives? Building a little Eden
in this wilderness, I'll warrant. Tell them to put another name in the pot, an' a hungry name
at that. I haven't seen a white woman's meal I don't know when."

The friends gathered about the old-timer, plying him with questions, which he answered or discussed
until the meal was over, holding his own business quietly in the background. But, with supper
ended, his pipe in his teeth and his feet resting comfortably in the oven, he broached his subject.

"Ready for the road in the morning, Jack? Don't want to break up your little honeymoon, y'
know, but the month is wearing on. Nothing but horseback for it now, an' they do say the settlers
are crowding up something wonderful. The best land's going fast. Most of them will hold up
now, with the roads breaking, but by slipping out on our horses we can locate an' file before
the real spring rush opens. You should get some kind of shelter up before the frost is out
of the ground, so's to lose no time from ploughing once the spring opens."

Harris needed no urging, and in the early morning the two men, with blankets and provisions,
started out on horseback for the still farther West. The snow was now going rapidly; water
stood in a thousand pools and ponds on the face of the prairie, or ran with swift noiselessness
in the creeks and ravines, although the real "break-up" of the streams would not occur until
early in April. By avoiding the sleigh-trails and riding over the open prairie fairly sound
footing was found for the horses and a good opportunity given to observe the land. Harris soon
found that more judgment was required in the selection of a prairie farm than he had supposed,
and he congratulated himself upon having fallen in with so experienced a plainsman as McCrae.
On the first day they rode over mile after mile of beautiful country, following the survey
stakes as closely as possible, and noting their location from time to time by the lettering
on the posts.

"This is good enough for me," said Harris at length, as their horses crested a little elevation
from which the prairie stretched away in all directions, smooth as a table. "Isn't it magnificent!
And all free for the taking!"

"It's pretty to look at," said McCrae, "but I guess you didn't come West for scenery, did you?"

"Well, what's the matter with it? Look at that grass. If the soil wasn't all right it wouldn't
grow native crops like that, would it?"

"The soil's all right," answered McCrae. "Nothing better anywhere, an' you can plough a hundred
and sixty acres to every quarter-section. But this is in the frost belt. They get it every
August--sometimes July. Shouldn't wonder but it'll be all right in time, when the country gets
settled up, but most homesteaders can't afford to wait. We've got to get further West yet,
into the higher land of the Turtle Mountain slopes. I know there's good stuff there that hasn't
been taken."

And so they pressed on, until, in the bright sunshine, the blue line of the Turtle Mountain
lay like a lake on the western horizon. Here McCrae began paying more minute attention to the
soil, examining the diggings around badger holes, watching out for clumps of "wolf willow,"
with always a keen eye for stones and low-lying alkali patches and the general topography of
the quarter.

"This is more rolling country, with more land broken up by sleughs an' creeks, but it's good
stuff," he said. "It's early to make predictions, but I'll risk one guess. There are two classes
of people coming into this country--men who are looking for wheat land, nothing but wheat land,
an' men who want some wheat land an' some stock land. I predict that in twenty-five years the
wheat farmers will be working for the mortgage companies, an' the stock farmers will be building
up bank accounts. Now stock must have water, an' if you can get natural shelter, so much the
better. A creek may break your land a little, but it's worth more than it costs."

Many times in their explorations they passed over sections that Harris would have accepted,
but McCrae objected, finding always some flaw not apparent to the untrained eye. Once, where
a little river had worn its way across the plain, they came on a sod shack, where a settler
was already located. "Nice spot," said McCrae, "but too sandy. His farm'll blow away when he
breaks the sod. There's an easy crossing there' though, an' perhaps he thinks the railway will
hit him when it comes. That's all a gamble. It may go north of the lake; if it does we only
bet on the wrong horse. We've got to take our chance on that."

