She sat, on the afternoon of the sixth day, in a sunny corner of the lower terrace and turned
the leaves of a book with a listless hand. She was to be alone till dinner-time; Tallie had
gone in to Helston by bus, and she had the air of one who feels solitude at once an oppression
and a relief. She read little, raising her eyes to gaze unseeingly over the blue expanses stretched
beneath her or to look down as vaguely into the eyes of Victor, who lay at her feet. The restless
spirit of the house had reached Victor. He lay with his head on his extended paws in an attitude
of quiescence; but his ears were pricked to watchfulness, his eyes, as he turned them now and
again up to his mistress, were troubled. Aware of his glance, on one occasion, Madame von Marwitz
stooped and caressed his head, murmuring: "Nous sommes des infortunés, hein, mon chien." Her
voice was profoundly sad. Victor understood her. Slightly thudding his tail he gave a soft
responsive groan; and it was then, while she still leaned to him and still caressed his head,
that shrill, emphatic voices struck on Madame von Marwitz's ear.

The gravelled nook where she sat, her garden chair, with its adjusted cushions, set against
a wall, was linked by ascending paths and terraces to the cliff-path, and this again, though
only through a way overgrown with gorse and bramble, to the public coast-guards' path along
the cliff-top. The white stones that marked the way for the coast-guards made a wide détour
behind Madame von Marwitz's property and this nearer egress to the cliff was guarded by a large
placard warning off trespassers. Yet, looking in the direction of the voices, Madame von Marwitz,
to her astonishment, saw that three ladies, braving the interdict, were actually marching down
in single file upon her.

One was elderly and two were young; they wore travelling dress, and, as she gazed at them in
chill displeasure, the features of the first became dimly familiar to her. Where, she could
not have said, yet she had seen that neat, grey head before, that box-like hat with its depending
veil, that firmly corseted, matronly form, with its silver-set pouch, suggesting, typical of
the travelling American lady as it was, a marsupial species. She did not know where she had
seen this lady; but she was a travelling American; she accosted one in determined tones, and,
at some time in the past, she had waylaid and inconvenienced her. Madame von Marwitz, as the
three trooped down upon her, did not rise. She pointed to the lower terrace. "This is private
property," she said, and her aspect might well have turned the unwary visitors, Acteon-like,
into stags, "I must ask you to leave it at once. You see the small door in the garden wall
below; it is unlocked and it leads to the village. Good-day to you."

But, with a singularly bright and puckered look, the look of a surf-bather, who measures with
swift eye the height of the rolling breaker and plunges therein, the elderly lady addressed
her with extraordinary volubility.

"Baroness, you don't remember us--but we've met before, we have a mutual friend:--Mrs. General
Tollman of St. Paul's, Minnesota.--Allow me to introduce myself again:--Mrs. Slifer--Mrs. Hamilton
K. Slifer:--my girls, Maude and Beatrice. We had the privilege of making your acquaintance
over a year ago, Baroness, at the station in London, just before you sailed, and we had some
talks on the steamer to that perfectly charming woman, Miss Scrotton. I hope she's well. We're
over again this year, you see; we pine for dear old England and come just as often as we can.
We feel we belong here more than over there sometimes, I'm afraid,"--Mrs. Slifer laughed swiftly
and deprecatingly.--"My girls are so often taken for English girls, the Burne-Jones type you
know. We've got friends staying at Mullion, so we thought we'd just drop down on Cornwall for
a little tour after we landed at Southampton, and we drove over this afternoon and came down
by the cliff--we are just crazy about your scenery, Baroness--it's just the right setting for
you--we've been saying so all day--to have a peek at the house we've heard so much about; and
we don't want to disturb you, but it's the greatest possible pleasure, Baroness, to have this
beautiful glimpse of you--with your splendid dog--how d' ye do, Victor--why I do believe he
remembers me; we petted him so much at the station when your niece was holding him. We saw
Mrs. Jardine the other day, Baroness--such a pleasant surprise that was, too--only we're sorry
to see she's so delicate. The New Forest will be just the place for her. We stayed there three
days after landing, because my Beatrice here was very sea-sick and I wanted her to have a little
rest. We were simply crazy over it. I do hope Mrs. Jardine's getting better."

All this had been delivered with such speed, such an air of decision and purpose, that Madame
von Marwitz, who had risen in her bewildered indignation and stood, her book beneath her arm,
her white cloak caught about her, had found no opportunity to check the torrent of speech,
and as these last words came as swiftly and as casually as the rest she could hardly, for a
moment, collect her faculties.

"My niece? Mrs. Jardine?" she repeated, with a wild, wan utterance. "What do you say of her?"

It was at this moment that Miss Beatrice began, in the background, to adjust her camera. She
told her mother and sister afterwards that she seemed to feel it in her bones that something
was doing.

Mrs. Slifer, emerging from her breaker in triumph, struck out, blinking and smiling affably.
"We heard all about the wedding in America," she said, "and we thought we might call upon her
in London and see that splendid temple you'd given her--we heard all about that, too. I never
saw a picture of him, but I knew her in a minute, naturally, though she did look so pulled
down. Why, Baroness--what's the matter!"

Madame von Marwitz had suddenly clutched Mrs. Slifer's arm with an almost appalling violence
of mien and gesture.

"What is the matter?" Madame von Marwitz repeated, shaking Mrs. Slifer's arm. "Do you know
what you are saying? My niece has been lost for a week! The whole country is searching for
her! Where have you seen her? When was it? Answer me at once!"

"Why Baroness, by all means, but you needn't shake my head off," said Mrs. Slifer, not without
dignity, raising her free hand to straighten her hat. "We've never heard a word about it. Why
this is perfectly providential.--Baroness--I must ask you not to go on shaking me like that.
I've got a very delicate stomach and the least thing upsets my digestion."

"Justes cieux!" Madame von Marwitz cried, dropping Mrs. Slifer's arm and raising her hands
to her head, while, in the background, Miss Beatrice's kodak gave a click--"Will the woman
drive me mad! Karen! My child! Where is she!"

"Why, we saw her at the station at Brockenhurst--in the New Forest--didn't we Maude," said
Mrs. Slifer, "and it must have been--now let me see--" poor Mrs. Slifer collected her wits,
a bent forefinger at her lips. "To-day's Thursday and we got to Mullion yesterday--and we stopped
at Winchester for a day and night on our way to the New Forest, it was on Saturday last of
course. We'd been having a drive about that part of the forest and we were taking the train
and they had just come and we saw them on the opposite platform. He was just helping her out
of the train and we didn't have any time to go round and speak to them--"

"They!" Madame von Marwitz nearly shouted. "She was with a man! Last Saturday! Who was it?
Describe him to me! Was he slender--with fair hair--dark eyes--the air of a poet?" She panted.
And her aspect was so singular that Miss Beatrice, startled out of her professional readiness,
failed to snap it.

"Why no," said Mrs. Slifer, keeping her clue. "I shouldn't say a poetical looking man, should
you, Maude? A fleshy man--very big and fleshy, and he was taking such good care of her and
looked so kind of tender and worried that I concluded he was her husband. She looked like a
very sick woman, Baroness."

"Fleshy?" Madame von Marwitz repeated, and the word, in her moan, was almost graceful. "Fleshy,
you say? An old man? A stout old man?" she held her hands distractedly pressed to her head.
"What stout old man does Karen know? Is it a stranger she has met?"

"No, he wasn't old. This was a young man, Baroness. He had--now let me see--his hair was sort
of red--I remember noticing his hair; and he wore knee-pants and a soft hat with a feather
in it and was very high coloured."

"Bon Dieu!" Madame von Marwitz gasped. She had again, while Mrs. Slifer spoke, seized her by
the arm as though afraid that she might escape her and she now gazed with a fixed gaze above
Mrs. Slifer's head and through the absorbed Maude and Beatrice. "Red hair?--A large young man?--Was
he clean shaven? Did he wear eyeglasses? Had he the face of a musician? Did he look like an
Englishman--an English gentleman?"

Mrs. Slifer, nodding earnest assent to the first questions, shook her head at the latter. "No,
he didn't. What I said to Maude and Beatrice was that Mr. Jardine looked more German than English.
He looked just like a German student, Baroness."

"Franz Lippheim!" cried Madame von Marwitz. She sank back upon the seat from which she had
risen, putting a hand before her eyes.

Victor, at her knees, laid a paw upon her lap and whined an interrogative sympathy. The three
American ladies gathered near and gazed in silence upon the great woman, and Beatrice, carefully
adjusting her camera, again took a snap. The picture of Madame von Marwitz, with her hand before
her eyes, her anxious dog at her knees, found its way into the American press and illustrated
touchingly the story of the lost adopted child. Madame von Marwitz was not sorry when, among
a batch of press-cuttings, she came across the photograph and saw that her most genuine emotion
had been thus made public.

She looked up at last, and the dizziness of untried and perilous freedom was in her eyes; but
curious, now, of other objects, they took in, weighed and measured the little group before
her; power grew in them, an upwelling of force and strategy.

She smiled upon the Slifers and she rose.

"You have done me an immeasurable service," she said, and as she spoke she took Mrs. Slifer's
hand with a noble dignity. "You have lifted me from despair. It is blessed news that you bring.
My child is safe with a good, a talented man; one for whom I have the deepest affection. And
in the New Forest--at Brockenhurst--on Saturday. Ah, I shall soon have her in my arms."

Still holding Mrs. Slifer's hand she led them up the terraces and towards the house. "The poor
child is ill, distraught. She had parted from her husband--fled from him. Ah, it has been a
miserable affair, that marriage. But now, all will be well. Bon Dieu! what joy! What peace
of heart you have brought me! I shall be with her to-morrow. I start at once. And you, my good
friends, let me hear your plans. Let me be of service to you. Come with me for the last stage
of your journey. I will not part with you willingly."

"It's all simply too wonderful, Baroness," Mrs. Slifer gasped, as she skipped along on her
short legs beside the goddess-like stride of the great woman, who held her--who held her very
tightly. "We were just going to drift along up to Tintagel and then work up to London, taking
in all the cathedrals we could on our way."

"And you will change your route in order to give me the pleasure of your company. You will
forfeit Tintagel: is it not so?" Madame von Marwitz smiled divinely. "You will come with me
in my car to Truro where we take the train and I will drop you to-night at the feet of a cathedral.
So. Your luggage is at Mullion? That is simple. We wire to your friends to pack and send it
on at once. Leave it to me. You are in my hands. It is a kindness that you will do me. I need
you, Mrs. Slifer," she pressed the lady's arm. "My old friend, who lives with me, has left
me for the day, and, moreover, she is too old to travel. I must not be alone. I need you. It
is a kindness that you will do me. Now you will wait for me here and tea will be brought to
you. I shall keep you waiting but for a few moments."

It was to be lifted on the back of a genie. She had wafted them up, along the garden paths,
across the verandah, into the serenity and spaciousness and dim whites and greens and silvers
of the great music-room, with a backward gaze that had, in all its sweetness, something of
hypnotic force and fixity.

She left them with the Sargent portrait looking down at them and the room in its strangeness
and beauty seemed part of the spell she laid upon them. The Slifers, herded together in the
middle of it, gazed about them half awe-struck and spoke almost in whispers.

"Why, girls," said Mrs. Slifer, who was the first to find words, "this is the most thrilling
thing I ever came across."

"You've pulled it off this time, mother, and no mistake," said Maude, glancing somewhat furtively
up at the Sargent. "Do look at that perfectly lovely dress she has on in that picture. Did
you ever see such pearls; and the eyes seem to follow you, don't they?"

"The poor, distracted thing just clings to us," said Mrs. Slifer. "I shouldn't wonder if she
was as lonely as could be."

"All the same," Beatrice, the doubting Thomas of the group, now commented, "I don't think however
excited she was she ought to have shaken you like that, mother." Beatrice had examined the
appurtenances of the great room with a touch of nonchalance. It was she whom Gregory had seen
at the station, seated on the pile of luggage.

"That's petty of you, Bee," said Mrs. Slifer gravely. "Real small and petty. It's a great soul
at white heat we've been looking at."

Handcock at this point brought in tea, and after she had placed the tray and disposed the plates
of cake and bread-and-butter and left the Slifers alone again, Mrs. Slifer went on under her
breath, seating herself to pour out the tea. "And do look at this tea-pot, girls; isn't it
too cute for words. My! What will the Jones say when they hear about this! They'd give their
eye-teeth to be with us now."

The Slifers, indeed, were never to forget their adventure. It was to be impressed upon their
minds not only by its supreme enviableness but by its supreme discomfort. It was almost five
when, like three Ganymedes uplifted by the talons of a fierce, bright bird, they soared with
Madame von Marwitz towards Truro, and at Truro, in spite of a reckless speed which desperately
dishevelled their hair and hats, they arrived too late to catch the 6.40 train for Exeter.

Madame von Marwitz strode majestically along the platform, her white cloak trailing in the
dust, called for station-masters, demanded special trains, fixed haughty, uncomprehending eyes
upon the officials who informed her that she could not possibly get a train until ten, resigned
herself, with sundry exclamations of indignation and stamps of the foot, to the tedious wait,
sailed into the refreshment room only to sail out again, mounted the car not yet dismissed,
bore the Slifers to a hotel where they had a dinner over which she murmured at intervals "Bon
Dieu, est-ce-donc possible!" and then, in the chill, dark evening, toured about in the adjacent
country until ten, when Burton was sent back to Les Solitudes and when they all got into the
train for Exeter.

She had never in all her life travelled alone before. She hardly knew how to procure her ticket,
and her helplessness in regard to box and dressing-case was so apparent that Mrs. Slifer saw
to the one and Maude carried the other, together with the fur-lined coat when this was thrown
aside.

The hours that they passed with her in the train were the strangest that the Slifers had ever
passed. They were chilled, they were sleepy, they were utterly exhausted; but they kept their
eyes fixed on the perplexing, resplendent object that upbore them.

Beatrice, it is true, showed by degrees, a slight sulkiness. She had not liked it when, at
Truro, Madame von Marwitz had supervised their wires to the Jones, and she liked it less when
Madame von Marwitz explained to them in the train that she relied upon them not to let the
Jones--or anybody for the present--know anything about Mrs. Jardine. Something in Madame von
Marwitz's low-toned and richly murmured confidences as she told Maude and Mrs. Slifer that
it was important for Mrs. Jardine's peace of mind, and for her very sanity, that her dreaded
husband should not hear of her whereabouts, made Beatrice, as she expressed it to herself, "tired."

She looked out of the window while her mother and sister murmured, "Why certainly, Baroness;
why yes; we perfectly understand," leaning forward in the illuminated carriage like docile
conspirators.

After this Madame von Marwitz said that she would try to sleep; but, propped in her corner,
she complained so piteously of discomfort that Mrs. Slifer and Maude finally divested themselves
of their jackets and contrived a pillow for her out of them. They assured her that they were
not cold and Madame von Marwitz, reclining now at full length, murmured "Mille remerciements."
Soon she fell asleep and Mrs. Slifer and Maude, very cold and very unresentful, sat and watched
her slumbers. From time to time she softly snored. She was very comfortable in her fur-lined cloak.

It was one o'clock when they reached Exeter and drove, dazed and numbed, to a hotel. Here Madame
von Marwitz further availed herself of the services of Maude and Mrs. Slifer, for she was incapable
of unpacking her box and dressing-case. Mrs. Slifer maided her while Maude, with difficulty
at the late hour, procured her hot water, bouillon and toast. Beatrice meanwhile, callously
avowing her unworthiness, said that she was "dead tired" and went to bed.

Madame von Marwitz bade Mrs. Slifer and Maude the kindest good-night, smiling dimly at them
over her bedroom candlestick as she ushered them to the door. "So," she said; "I leave you
to your cathedral."

When the Slifers arose next day, late, for they were very weary, they found that Madame von
Marwitz had departed by an early train.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile, at Les Solitudes, old Mrs. Talcott turned from side to side all night, sleepless.
Her heart was heavy with anxiety.

Karen was found and to-morrow Mercedes would be with her; she had sent for Mercedes, so the
note pinned to Mrs. Talcott's dressing-table had informed her, and Mercedes would write.

What had happened? Who were the unknown ladies who had appeared from no one knew where during
her absence at Helston and departed with Mercedes for Truro?

"Something's wrong. Something's wrong," Mrs. Talcott muttered to herself during the long hours.
"I don't believe she's sent for Mercedes--not unless she's gone crazy."

At dawn she fell at last into an uneasy sleep. She dreamed that she and Mercedes were walking
in the streets of Cracow, and Mercedes was a little child. She jumped beside Mrs. Talcott,
holding her by the hand. The scene was innocent, yet the presage of disaster filled it with
a strange horror. Mrs. Talcott woke bathed in sweat.

"I'll get an answer to my telegram this morning," she said to herself. She had telegraphed
to Gregory last night, at once: "Karen is found. Mercedes has gone to her. That's all I know yet."

She clung to the thought of Gregory's answer. Perhaps he, too, had news. But she had no answer
to her telegram. The post, instead, brought her a letter from Gregory that had been written
the morning before.

     "Dear Mrs. Talcott," it ran. "Karen is found. The detectives
     discovered that Mr. Franz Lippheim had not gone to Germany with his
     family. They traced him to an inn in the New Forest. Karen is with
     him and has taken his name. May I ask you, if possible, to keep
     this fact from her guardian for the present.--Yours sincerely,

     "Gregory Jardine."

When Mrs. Talcott had read this she felt herself overcome by a sudden sickness and trembling.
She had not yet well recovered from her illness of the Spring. She crept upstairs to her room
and went to bed.

CHAPTER XLI

It seemed to Karen, after hours had passed, that she had ceased to be tired and that her body,
wafted by an involuntary rhythm, was as light as thistle-down on the wind.

She had crossed the Goonhilly Downs where the moonlight, spreading far and wide with vast unearthly
brightness, filled all the vision with immensities of space and brought memories of strains
from Schubert's symphonies, silver monotonies of never-ending sound.

She had plunged down winding roads, blackly shadowed by their hedgerow trees, passing sometimes
a cottage that slept between its clumps of fuchsia and veronica. She had climbed bare hill-sides
where abandoned mines or quarries had left desolate mementoes that looked in the moonlight
like ancient tombs and catacombs.

Horror lay behind her at Les Solitudes, a long, low cloud on the horizon to which she had turned
her back. The misery that had overpowered and made her one with its dread realities lay beneath
her feet. She was lifted above it in a strange, disembodied enfranchisement all the night,
and the steady blowing of the wind, the leagues of silver, the mighty sky with its far, high
priestess, were part of an ecstasy of sadness, impersonal, serene, hallucinated, like that
of the music that accompanied the rhythm of her feet.

The night was almost over and dawn was coming, when, on a long uphill road, she felt her heart
flag and her footsteps stagger.

The moon still rode sharp and high, but its light seemed concentrated in its own glittering
disk and the world was visible in an uncanny darkness that was not dark. The magic of the night
had vanished and the beat of vast, winding melodies melted from Karen's mind leaving her dry
and brittle and empty, like a shell from which the tides have drawn away.

She knew what she had still to do. At the top of the road she was to turn and cut across fields
to a headland above Falmouth--from which a path she knew led to the town. She had not gone
to Helston, but had taken this cross-country way to Falmouth because she knew that at any hour
of the night she might be missed and followed and captured. They would not think of Falmouth;
they would not dream that she could walk so far. In the town she would pawn Onkel Ernst's watch
and take the early train to London and by evening she would be with Frau Lippheim. So she had
seen it all, in flashes, last night.

