The tension increased as the day went on; still, no one had said to another, "What is there
so strange about to-day? Do you feel it? Is it only our imagination--a reaction after strain,
or is it that a presentiment of something to happen hangs over us?"

Stephen had not yet had any talk with Victoria. They had seen each other alone for scarcely
more than a moment since the night at Toudja; but now that Nevill was better, and the surgeons
said that if all went well, danger was past, it seemed to Stephen that the hour had come.

After they had lunched in the dim, cool dining-room, and Lady MacGregor had proposed a siesta
for all sensible people, Stephen stopped the girl on her way upstairs as she followed her sister.

"May I talk to you for a little while this afternoon?" he asked.

Voice and eyes were wistful, and Victoria wondered why, because she was so happy that she felt
as if life had been set to music. She had hoped that he would be happy too, when Nevill's danger
was over, and he had time to think of himself--perhaps, too, of her.

"Yes," she said, "let's talk in the garden, when it's cooler. I love being in gardens, don't
you? Everything that happens seems more beautiful."

Stephen remembered how lovely he had thought her in the lily garden at Algiers. He was almost
glad that they were not to have this talk there; for the memory of it was too perfect to mar
with sadness.

"I'm going to put Saidee to sleep," she went on. "You may laugh, but truly I can. When I was
a little girl, she used to like me to stroke her hair if her head ached, and she would always
fall asleep. And once she's asleep I shan't dare move, or she'll wake up. She has such happy
dreams now, and they're sure to come true. Shall I come to you about half-past five?"

"I'll be waiting," said Stephen.

It was the usual garden of a villa in the neighbourhood of a desert town, but Stephen had never
seen one like it, except that of the Caïd, in Bou-Saada. There were the rounded paths of hard
sand, the colour of pinkish gold in the dappling shadows of date palms and magnolias, and there
were rills of running water that whispered and gurgled as they bathed the dark roots of the
trees. No grass grew in the garden, and the flowers were not planted in beds or borders. Plants
and trees sprang out of the sand, and such flowers as there were--roses, and pomegranate blossoms,
hibiscus, and passion flowers--climbed, and rambled, and pushed, and hung in heavy drapery,
as best they could without attention or guidance. But one of the principal paths led to a kind
of arbour, or temple, where long ago palms had been planted in a ring, and had formed a high
green dome, through which, even at noon, the light filtered as if through a dome of emerald.
Underneath, the pavement of gold was hard and smooth, and in the centre whispered a tiny fountain
ornamented with old Algerian tiles. It trickled rather than played, but its delicate music
was soothing and sweet as a murmured lullaby; and from the shaded seat beside it there was
a glimpse between tree trunks of the burning desert gold.

On this wooden seat by the fountain Stephen waited for Victoria, and saw her coming to him,
along the straight path that led to the round point. She wore a white dress which Lady MacGregor
had brought her, and as she walked, the embroidery of light and shadow made it look like lace
of a lovely pattern. She stopped on the way, and, gathering a red rose with a long stem, slipped
it into her belt. It looked like a spot of blood over her heart, as if a sword had been driven
in and drawn out. Stephen could not bear to see it there. It was like a symbol of the wound
that he was waiting to inflict.

She came to him smiling, looking very young, like a child who expects happiness.

"Have I kept you waiting long?" she asked. Her blue eyes, with the shadow of the trees darkening
them, had a wonderful colour, almost purple. A desperate longing to take her in his arms swept
over Stephen like a wave. He drew in his breath sharply and shut his teeth. He could not answer.
Hardly knowing what he did, he held out his hands, and very quietly and sweetly she laid hers
in them.

"Don't trust me--don't be kind to me," he said, crushing her hands for an instant, then putting
them away.

She looked up in surprise, as he stood by the fountain, very tall and pale, and suddenly rather
grim, it seemed to her, his expression out of tune with the peace of the garden and the mood
in which she had come.

"What is the matter?" she asked, simply.

"Everything. I hardly know how to begin to tell you. Yet I must. Perhaps you'll think I shouldn't
have waited till now. But there's been no chance--at least, I----"

"No, there's been no chance for us to talk, or even to think very much about ourselves," Victoria
tried to reassure him. "Begin just as you like. Whatever you say, whatever you have to tell,
I won't misunderstand."

"First of all, then," Stephen said, "you know I love you. Only you don't know how much. I couldn't
tell you that, any more than I could tell how much water there is in the ocean. I didn't know
myself that it was possible to love like this, and such a love might turn the world into heaven.
But because I am what I am, and because I've done what I have done, it's making mine hell.
Wait--you said you wouldn't misunderstand! The man who loves you ought to offer some sort of
spiritual gold and diamonds, but I've got only a life half spoiled to offer you, if you'll
take it. And before I can even ask you to take it, I'll have to explain how it's spoiled."

Victoria did not speak, but still looked at him with that look of an expectant, anxious child,
which made him long to snatch her up and turn his back forever on the world where there was
a Margot Lorenzi, and gossiping people, and newspapers.

But he had to go on. "There's a woman," he said, "who--perhaps she cares for me--I don't know.
Anyhow, she'd suffered through our family. I felt sorry for her. I--I suppose I admired her.
She's handsome--or people think so. I can hardly tell how it came about, but I--asked her to
marry me, and she said yes. That was--late last winter--or the beginning of spring. Then she
had to go to Canada, where she'd been brought up--her father died in England, a few months
ago, and her mother, when she was a child; but she had friends she wanted to see, before--before
she married. So she went, and I came to Algiers, to visit Nevill. Good heavens, how banal it
sounds! How--how different from the way I feel! There aren't words--I don't see how to make
you understand, without being a cad. But I must tell you that I didn't love her, even at first.
It was a wish--a foolish, mistaken wish, I see now--and I saw long ago, the moment it was too
late--to make up for things. She was unhappy, and--no, I give it up! I can't explain. But it
doesn't change things between us--you and me. I'm yours, body and soul. If you can forgive
me for--for trying to make you care, when I had no right--if, after knowing the truth, you'll
take me as I am, I----"

"Do you mean, you'd break off your engagement?"

Perhaps it was partly the effect of the green shadows, but the girl looked very pale. Except
for her eyes and hair, and the red rose that was like a wound over her heart, there was no
colour about her.

"Yes, I would. And I believe it would be right to break it," Stephen said, forcefully. "It's
abominable to marry some one you don't love, and a crime if you love some one else."

"But you must have cared for her once," said Victoria.

