It sounded like irony to me. I was anxious to have it all over with. We went out. Once in the
street the passing from semi-obscurity to daylight dazed me and I staggered. I began to fear
that it would no longer be possible for me to conceal the crime. I kept my eyes steadily fixed
upon the ground and took my place in the procession. When all was over, I breathed once more.
I was at peace with man. But I was not at peace with my conscience, and the first nights, naturally,
I spent in restlessness and affliction. Need I tell you that I hastened to return to Rio de
Janeiro, and that I dwelt there in terror and suspense, although far removed from the scene
of the crime? I never smiled; I scarcely spoke; I ate very little; I suffered hallucinations
and nightmares....

"Let the dead rest in peace," they would say to me. "It is out of all reason to show so much
melancholy."

And I was happy to find how people interpreted my symptoms, and praised the dead man highly,
calling him a good soul, surly, in truth, but with a heart of gold. And as I spoke in such
wise, I convinced myself, at least for a few moments at a time. Another interesting phenomenon
was taking place within me--I tell it to you because you will perhaps make some useful deduction
from it--and that was, although I had very little religion in me, I had a mass sung for the
eternal rest of the colonel at the Church of the Blessed Sacrament. I sent out no invitations
to it, I did not whisper a word of it to anybody; I went there alone. I knelt during the whole
service and made many signs of the cross. I paid the priest double and distributed alms at
the door, all in the name of the deceased.

I wished to deceive nobody. The proof of this lies in the fact that I did all this without
letting any other know. To complete this incident, I may add that I never mentioned the colonel
without repeating, "May his soul rest in peace!" And I told several funny anecdotes about him,
some amusing caprices of his ...

About a week after my arrival at Rio I received a letter from the vicar. He announced that
the will of the colonel had been opened and that I was there designated as his sole heir. Imagine
my stupefaction! I was sure that I had read wrongly; I showed it to my brother, to friends;
they all read the same thing. It was there in black and white, I was really the sole heir of
the colonel. Then I suddenly thought that this was a trap to catch me, but then I considered
that there were other ways of arresting me, if the crime had been discovered. Moreover, I knew
the vicar's honesty, and I was sure that he would not be a party to such a plan. I reread the
letter five times, ten times, a hundred times; it was true. I was the colonel's sole heir!

"How much was he worth?" my brother asked me.

"I don't know, but I know that he was very wealthy."

"Really, he's shown that he was a very true friend to you."

"He certainly was--he was...."

Thus, by a strange irony of fate, all the colonel's wealth came into my hands. At first I thought
of refusing the legacy. It seemed odious to take a sou of that inheritance; it seemed worse
than the reward of a hired assassin. For three days this thought obsessed me; but more and
more I was thrust against this consideration: that my refusal would not fail to awake suspicion.
Finally I settled upon a compromise; I would accept the inheritance and would distribute it
in small sums, secretly.

This was not merely scruple on my part, it was also the desire to redeem my crime by virtuous
deeds; and it seemed the only way to recover my peace of mind and feel that accounts were straight.

I made hurried preparations and left. As I neared the little village the sad event returned
obstinately to my memory. Everything about the place, as I looked at it once again, suggested
tragic deeds. At every turn in the road I seemed to see the ghost of the colonel loom. And
despite myself, I evoked in my imagination his cries, his struggles, his looks on that horrible
night of the crime....

Crime or struggle? Really, it was rather a struggle; I had been attacked, I had defended myself;
and in self-defence.... It had been an unfortunate struggle, a genuine tragedy. This idea gripped
me. And I reviewed all the abuse he had heaped upon me; I counted the blows, the names ...
It was not the colonel's fault, that I knew well; it was his affliction that made him so peevish
and even wicked. But I pardoned all, everything!... The worst of it was the end of that fatal
night ... I also considered that in any case the colonel had not long to live. His days were
numbered; did not he himself feel that? Didn't he say every now and then, "How much longer
have I to live? Two weeks, or one, perhaps less?"

This was not life, it was slow agony, if one may so name the continual martyrdom of that poor
man.... And who knows, who can say that the struggle and his death were not simply a coincidence?
That was after all quite possible, it was even most probable; careful weighing of the matter
showed that it couldn't have been otherwise. At length this idea, too, engraved itself upon
my mind....

Something tugged at my heart as I entered the village; I wanted to run back; but I dominated
my emotions and I pressed forward. I was received with a shower of congratulations. The vicar
communicated to me the particulars of the will, enumerated the pious gifts, and, as he spoke,
praised the Christian forbearance and the faithfulness which I had shown in my care of the
deceased, who, despite his temper and brutality, had so well demonstrated his gratitude.

"Certainly," I said, looking nervously around.

I was astounded. Everybody praised my conduct. Such patience, such devotion. The first formalities
of the inventory detained me for a while; I chose a solicitor; things followed their course
in regular fashion. During this time there was much talk of the colonel. People came and told
me tales about him, but without observing the priest's moderation. I defended the memory of
the colonel. I recalled his good qualities, his virtues; had he not been austere?...

"Austere!" they would interrupt. "Nonsense! He is dead, and it's all over now. But he was a
regular demon!"

And they would cite incidents and relate the colonel's perversities, some of which were nothing
less than extraordinary.

Need I confess it? At first I listened to all this talk with great curiosity; then, a queer
pleasure penetrated my heart, a pleasure from which, sincerely, I tried to escape. And I continued
to defend the colonel; I explained him, I attributed much of the fault-finding to local animosity;
I admitted, yes, I admitted that he had been a trifle exacting, somewhat violent....

"Somewhat! Why he was as furious as a snake!" exclaimed the barber.

And all--the collector, the apothecary, the clerk--all were of the same opinion. And they would
start to relate other anecdotes. They reviewed the entire life of the deceased. The old folks
took particular delight in recalling the cruelties of his youth. And that queer pleasure, intimate,
mute, insidious, grew within me--a sort of moral tape-worm whose coils I tore out in vain,
for they would immediately form again and take firmer hold than ever.

The formalities of the inventory afforded me a little relief; moreover, public opinion was
so unanimously unfavorable to the colonel that little by little the place lost the lugubrious
aspect that had at first struck me. At last I entered into possession of the legacy, which
I converted into land-titles and cash.

Several months had elapsed, and the idea of distributing the inheritance in charity and pious
donations was by no means so strong as it had at first been; it even seemed to me that this
would be sheer affectation. I revised my initial plan; I gave away several insignificant sums
to the poor; I presented the village church with a few new ornaments; I gave several thousand
francs to the Sacred House of Mercy, etc. I did not forget to erect a monument upon the colonel's
grave--a very simple monument, all marble, the work of a Neapolitan sculptor who remained at
Rio until 1866, and who has since died, I believe, in Paraguay.

Years have gone by. My memory has become vague and unreliable. Sometimes I think of the colonel,
but without feeling again the terrors of those early days. All the doctors to whom I have described
his afflictions have been unanimous as regards the inevitable end in store for the invalid,
and were indeed surprised that he should so long have resisted. It is just possible that I
may have involuntarily exaggerated the description of his various symptoms; but the truth is
that he was sure of sudden death, even had this fatality not occurred....

Good-bye, my dear sir. If you deem these notes not totally devoid of value reward me for them
with a marble tomb, and place there for my epitaph this variant which I have made of the divine
sermon on the mount:

"Blessed are they who possess, for they shall be consoled."

THE FORTUNE-TELLER

By Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis

Hamlet observes to Horatio that there are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of
in our philosophy. This was the selfsame explanation that was given by beautiful Rita to her
lover, Camillo, on a certain Friday of November, 1869, when Camillo laughed at her for having
gone, the previous evening, to consult a fortune-teller. The only difference is that she made
her explanation in other words.

"Laugh, laugh. That's just like you men; you don't believe in anything. Well, let me tell you,
I went there and she guessed the reason for my coming before I ever spoke a word. Scarcely
had she begun to lay out the cards when she said to me: 'The lady likes a certain person ...'
I confessed that it was so, and then she continued to rearrange the cards in various combinations,
finally telling me that I was afraid you would forget me, but that there were no grounds for
my fear."

"She was wrong!" interrupted Camillo with a laugh.

"Don't say that, Camillo. If you only realized in what anguish I went there, all on account
of you. You know. I've told you before. Don't laugh at me; don't poke fun at me...."

Camillo seized her hands and gazed into her eyes earnestly and long. He swore that he loved
her ever so much, that her fears were childish; in any case, should she ever harbor a fear,
the best fortune-teller to consult was he himself. Then he reproved her, saying that it was
imprudent to visit such houses. Villela might learn of it, and then ...

"Impossible! I was exceedingly careful when I entered the place."

"Where is the house?"

"Near here. On Guarda-Velha Street. Nobody was passing by at the time. Rest easy. I'm not a fool."

Camillo laughed again.

"Do you really believe in such things?" he asked.

It was at this point that she translated Hamlet into every-day speech, assuring her lover that
there was many a true, mysterious thing in this world. If he was skeptical, let him have patience.
One thing, however, was certain: the card reader had guessed everything. What more could he
desire? The best proof was that at this moment she was at ease and content.

He was about to speak, but he restrained himself. He did not wish to destroy her illusions.
He, too, when a child, and even later, had been superstitious, filled with an arsenal of beliefs
which his mother had instilled, and which had disappeared by the time he reached twenty. The
day on which he rid himself of all this parasitic vegetation, leaving behind only the trunk
of religion, he wrapped his superstition and his religion (which had both been inculcated by
his mother) in the same doubt, and soon arrived at a single, total negation. Camillo believed
in nothing. Why? He could not have answered; he had not a solitary reason; he was content simply
to deny everything. But I express myself ill, for to deny is in a sense to affirm, and he did
not formulate his unbelief. Before the great mystery he simply shrugged his shoulders and went on.

The lovers parted in good spirits, he more happy than she. Rita was sure that she was loved;
but Camillo was not only sure that she loved him, but saw how she trembled for him and even
took risks, running to fortune-tellers. However much he had reproved her for this, he could
not help feeling flattered by it. Their secret meeting-place was in the old Barbonos street
at the home of a woman that came from Rita's province. Rita went off through Mangueiras street,
in the direction of Botafogo, where she resided; Camillo entered Guarda-Velha street, keeping
his eye open, as he passed, for the home of the card reader.

Villela, Camillo and Rita: three names, one adventure and no explanation of how it all began.
Let us proceed to explain. The first two were friends since earliest childhood. Villela had
entered the magistracy. Camillo found employment with the government, against the will of his
father, who desired him to embrace the medical profession. But his father had died, and Camillo
preferred to be nothing at all, until his mother had procured him a departmental position.
At the beginning of the year 1869 Villela returned from the interior, where he had married
a silly beauty; he abandoned the magistracy and came hither to open a lawyer's office. Camillo
had secured a house for him near Botafogo and had welcomed him home.

"Is this the gentleman?" exclaimed Rita, offering Camillo her hand. "You can't imagine how
highly my husband thinks of you. He was always talking about you."

Camillo and Villela looked at each other tenderly. They were true friends. Afterwards, Camillo
confessed to himself that Villela's wife did not at all belie the enthusiastic letters her
husband had written to him. Really, she was most prepossessing, lively in her movements, her
eyes burning, her mouth plastic and piquantly inquiring. Rita was a trifle older than both
the men: she was thirty, Villela twenty-nine and Camillo twenty-six. The grave bearing of Villela
gave him the appearance of being much older than his wife, while Camillo was but a child in
moral and practical life.... He possessed neither experience nor intuition.

The three became closely bound. Propinquity bred intimacy. Shortly afterwards Camillo's mother
died, and in this catastrophe, for such it was, the other two showed themselves to be genuine
friends of his. Villela took charge of the interment, of the church services and the settlement
of the affairs of the deceased; Rita dispensed consolation, and none could do it better.

Just how this intimacy between Camillo and Rita grew to love he never knew. The truth is that
he enjoyed passing the hours at her side; she was his spiritual nurse, almost a sister,--but
most of all she was a woman, and beautiful. The aroma of femininity: this is what he yearned
for in her, and about her, seeking to incorporate it into himself. They read the same books,
they went together to the theatre or for walks. He taught her cards and chess, and they played
of nights;--she badly,--he, to make himself agreeable, but little less badly. Thus much, as
far as external things are concerned. And now came personal intimacies, the timorous eyes of
Rita, that so often sought his own, consulting them before they questioned those of her own
husband,--the touches of cold hands, and unwonted communion. On one of his birthdays he received
from Villela a costly cane, and from Rita, a hastily pencilled, ordinary note expressing good
wishes. It was then that he learned to read within his own heart; he could not tear his eyes
away from the missive. Commonplace words, it is true; but there are sublime commonplaces,--or
at least, delightful ones. The old chaise in which for the first time you rode with your beloved,
snuggled together, is as good as the chariot of Apollo. Such is man, and such are the circumstances
that surround him.

Camillo sincerely wished to flee the situation, but it was already beyond his power. Rita,
like a serpent, was charming him, winding her coils about him; she was crushing his bones,
darting her venomous fangs into his lips. He was helpless, overcome. Vexation, fear, remorse,
desire,--all this he felt, in a strange confusion. But the battle was short and the victory
deliriously intoxicating. Farewell, all scruple! The shoe now fitted snugly enough upon the
foot, and there they were both, launched upon the high road, arm in arm, joyfully treading
the grass and the gravel, without suffering anything more than lonesomeness when they were
away from each other. As to Villela, his confidence in his wife and his esteem for his friend
continued the same as before.

One day, however, Camillo received an anonymous letter, which called him immoral and perfidious,
and warned him that his adventure was known to all. Camillo took fright, and, in order to ward
off suspicion, began to make his visits to Villela's house more rare. The latter asked him
the reason for his prolonged absence. Camillo answered that the cause was a youthful flirtation.
Simplicity evolved into cunning. Camillo's absences became longer and longer, and then his
visits ceased entirely. Into this course there may have entered a little self-respect,--the
idea of diminishing his obligations to the husband in order to make his own actions appear
less treacherous.

It was at this juncture that Rita, uncertain and in fear, ran to the fortune-teller to consult
her upon the real reason for Camillo's actions. As we have seen, the card reader restored the
wife's confidence and the young man reproved her for having done what she did. A few weeks
passed. Camillo received two or three more anonymous letters, written with such passionate
anger that they could not have been prompted by mere regard for virtue; surely they came from
some violent rival of his. In this opinion Rita concurred, formulating, in ill-composed words
of her own, this thought: virtue is indolent and niggardly, wasting neither time nor paper;
only self-interest is alert and prodigal.

But this did not help to ease Camillo; he now feared lest the anonymous writer should inform
Villela, in which case the catastrophe would follow fast and implacably. Rita agreed that this
was possible.

"Very well," she said. "Give me the envelopes in which the letters came, so that I may compare
the handwriting with that of the mail which comes to him. If any arrives with writing resembling
the anonymous script, I'll keep it and tear it up ..."

But no such letter appeared. A short time after this, however, Villela commenced to grow grave,
speaking very little, as if something weighed upon his mind. Rita hurried to communicate the
change to her lover, and they discussed the matter earnestly. Her opinion was that Camillo
should renew his visits to their home, and sound her husband; it might be that Villela would
confide to him some business worry. With this Camillo disagreed; to appear after so many months
was to confirm the suspicions and denunciations of the anonymous letters. It was better to
be very careful, to give each other up for several weeks. They arranged means for communicating
with each other in case of necessity and separated, in tears.

On the following day Camillo received at his department this letter from Villela: "Come immediately
to our house; I must talk to you without delay." It was past noon. Camillo left at once; as
he reached the street it occurred to him that it would have been much more natural for Villela
to have called him to his office; why to his house? All this betokened a very urgent matter;
moreover, whether it was reality or illusion, it seemed to Camillo that the letter was written
in a trembling hand. He sought to establish a connection between all these things and the news
Rita had brought him the night before.

"Come immediately to our house; I must talk to you without delay," he repeated, his eyes staring
at the note.

In his mind's eye he beheld the climax of a drama,--Rita cowed, weeping; Villela indignant,
seizing his pen and dashing off the letter, certain that he, Camillo, would answer in person,
and waiting to kill him as he entered. Camillo shuddered with terror; then he smiled weakly;
in any event the idea of drawing back was repugnant to him. So he continued on his way. As
he walked it occurred to him to step into his rooms; he might find there a message from Rita
explaining everything. But he found nothing, nobody. He returned to the street, and the thought
that they had been discovered grew every moment more convincing; yes, the author of the previous
anonymous communications must have denounced him to the husband; perhaps by now Villela knew
all. The very suspension of his calls without any apparent reason, with the flimsiest of pretexts,
would confirm everything else.

Camillo walked hastily along, agitated, nervous. He did not read the letter again, but the
words hovered persistently before his eyes; or else,--which was even worse--they seemed to
be murmured into his ears by the voice of Villela himself. "Come immediately to our house;
I must talk to you without delay." Spoken thus by the voice of the other they seemed pregnant
with mystery and menace. Come immediately,--why? It was now nearly one o'clock. Camillo's agitation
waxed greater with each passing moment. So clearly did he imagine what was about to take place
that he began to believe it a reality, to see it before his very eyes. Yes, without a doubt,
he was afraid. He even considered arming himself, thinking that if nothing should happen he
would lose nothing by this useful precaution. But at once he rejected the idea, angry with
himself, and hastened his step towards Carioca square, there to take a tilbury. He arrived,
entered and ordered the driver to be off at full speed.

"The sooner the better," he thought. "I can't stand this uncertainty."

But the very sound of the horse's clattering hoofs increased his agitation. Time was flying,
and he would be face to face with danger soon enough. When they had come almost to the end
of Guarda-Velha street the tilbury had to come to a stop; the thoroughfare was blocked by a
coach that had broken down. Camillo surveyed the obstruction and decided to wait. After five
minutes had gone by, he noticed that there at his left, at the very foot of the tilbury, was
the fortune teller's house,--the very same as Rita had once consulted. Never, as at this moment,
had he so desired to believe in card-reading. He looked closer, saw that the windows were closed,
while all the others on the street were opened, filled with folks curious to see what was the
matter. It looked for all the world like the dwelling of indifferent Fate.

Camillo leaned back in his seat so as to shut all this from view. His excitement was intense,
extraordinary, and from the deep, hidden recesses of his mind there began to emerge spectres
of early childhood, old beliefs, banished superstitions. The coachman proposed another route;
he shook his head and said that he would wait. He leaned forward to get a better look at the
card-reader's house ... Then he made a gesture of self-ridicule: it had entered his mind to
consult the fortune-teller, who seemed to be hovering over him, far, far above, with vast,
ash-colored wings; she disappeared, reappeared, and then her image was lost; then, in a few
moments, the ash-colored wings stirred again, nearer, flying about him in narrowing circles
... In the street men were shouting, dragging away the coach.

"There! Now! Push! That's it! Now!"

In a short while the obstruction was removed. Camillo closed his eyes, trying to think of other
things; but the voice of Rita's husband whispered into his ears the words of the letter: "Come
immediately ..." And he could behold the anguish of the drama. He trembled. The house seemed
to look right at him. His feet instinctively moved as if to leave the carriage and go in ...
Camillo found himself before a long, opaque veil ... he thought rapidly of the inexplicability
of so many things. The voice of his mother was repeating to him a host of extraordinary happenings;
and the very sentence of the Prince of Denmark kept echoing within him:

    "There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
    Than are dreamt of in our philosophy."

What could he lose by it, if...?

He jumped out to the pavement, just before the fortune-teller's door; he told the driver to
wait for him, and hastened into the entry, ascending the stairs. There was little light, the
stairs were worn away from the many feet that had sought them, the banister was smooth and
sticky; but he saw and felt nothing. He stumbled up the stairs and knocked. Nobody appearing,
he was about to go down; but it was too late now,--curiosity was whipping his blood and his
heart beat with violent throbs; he turned back to the door, and knocked once, twice, three
times. He beheld a woman; it was the card-reader. Camillo said that he had come to consult
her, and she bade him enter. Thence they climbed to the attic by a staircase even worse than
the first and buried in deeper gloom. At the top there was a garret, ill lighted by a small
window. Old furniture, somber walls, and an air of poverty augmented, rather than destroyed,
the prestige of the occupant.

The fortune-teller told him to be seated before the table, and she sat down on the opposite
side with her back to the window, so that whatever little light came from without fell full
upon Camillo's face. She opened a drawer and took out a pack of worn, filthy cards. While she
rapidly shuffled them she peered at him closely, not so much with a direct gaze as from under
her eyes. She was a woman of forty, Italian, thin and swarthy, with large, sharp, cunning eyes.
She placed three cards upon the table, and said:

"Let us first see what has brought you here. The gentleman has just received a severe shock
and is in great fear ..."

Camillo, astonished, nodded affirmatively.

"And he wishes to know," she continued, "whether anything will happen to him or not ..."

"To me and to her," he explained, excitedly.

The fortune-teller did not smile; she simply told him to wait. She took the cards hastily once
more and shuffled them with her long tapering fingers whose nails were so long and unclean
from neglect; she shuffled them well, once, twice, thrice; then she began to lay them out.
Camillo's eyes were riveted upon her in anxious curiosity.

"The cards tell me ..."

Camillo leaned forward to drink in her words one by one. Then she told him to fear nothing.
Nothing would happen to him or to the other. He, the third, was aware of nought. Nevertheless,
great caution was indispensable; envy and rivalry were at work. She spoke to him of the love
that bound them, of Rita's beauty ... Camillo was bewildered. The fortune-teller stopped talking,
gathered the cards and locked them in the drawer.

"The lady has restored peace to my spirit," he said, offering her his hand across the table
and pressing that of the card-reader.

She arose, laughing.

"Go," she said. "Go, ragazzo innamorato ..."[4]

      [4] Italian for "love-sick boy," "young lover," etc.

