A GIRL'S RIDE IN ICELAND.

A GIRL'S RIDE IN ICELAND

BY MRS. ALEC TWEEDIE (Née HARLEY).

AUTHOR OF "A WINTER JAUNT TO NORWAY," WITH PERSONAL ACCOUNTS OF NANSEN, IBSEN, BJÖRNSEN, AND
BRANDES; "THE OBERAMMERGAU PASSION PLAY," ETC.

    "Iceland shone with glorious lore renowned
    A Northern light, when all was gloom around."
                                          Montgomery.

WITH NUMEROUS ILLUSTRATIONS AND A MAP.

SECOND EDITION.

LONDON: HORACE COX, WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM'S BUILDINGS, E.C.

1894.

The Rights of Translation and Reproduction are reserved.

PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION

When this little volume (my maiden effort) was published five years ago, it unwittingly originated
an angry controversy by raising the question "Should women ride astride?"

It is astonishing what a great fire a mere spark may kindle, and accordingly the war, on what
proved to be a very vexed subject, waged fast and furious. The picture papers inserted cleverly-illustrated
articles pro. and con.; the peace of families was temporarily wrecked, for people were of course
divided in their opinions, and bitter things were said by both sides concerning a very simple
and harmless matter. For a time it seemed as though the "Ayes" would win; but eventually appearances
carried the day, and women still use side saddles when on horseback, though the knickerbockers
and short skirts (only far shorter) I advocated for rough country riding are now constantly
worn by the many female equestrians who within the last couple of years have mounted bicycles.

It is nearly four years since, from an hotel window in Copenhagen, I saw, to my great surprise,
for the first time a woman astride a bicycle! How strange it seemed! Paris quickly followed
suit, and now there is a perfect army of women bicyclists in that fair capital; after a decent
show of hesitation England dropped her prejudices, and at the present minute, clad in unnecessarily
masculine costume, almost without a murmur, allows her daughters to scour the country in quest
of fresh air astride a bicycle.

If women may ride an iron steed thus attired, surely they might be permitted to bestride a
horse in like manner clothed, and in like fashion.

In past times women have ridden in every possible position, and in every possible costume.
They have ridden sideways on both the near and off sides, they have ridden astride (as the
Mexicans, Indians, Tartars, Roumanians, Icelanders, &c., do to-day), and they have also ridden
pillion. Queen Elizabeth rode thus behind the Earl of Leicester on public occasions, in a full
hoop skirt, low-necked bodice, and large ruffs. Nevertheless, she dispensed with a cavalier
when out hunting, at the ripe age of seventy-six.

When hunting, hawking, or at tournaments, women in the middle ages always rode astride in this
country, reserving their side saddles merely for state functions. Judging from old pictures,
they then mounted arrayed in full ball dresses, in long-veiled headdresses (time of Edward
II.), and in flowing skirts, while their heads were often ornamented with huge plumed hats.

Formerly, every church door, every roadside inn, had its horse block or "jumping-on stone"--called
in Kent and some other southern counties the "joist stone," and in Scotland the "louping-on
stane." These were necessary in the olden days of heavy armour, and at a time when women rode
astride. Men can now mount alone, although the struggles of a small man to climb to the top
of a big horse sometimes are mightily entertaining; but women have to trust to any capable
or incapable man who can assist them into their saddles.

Fashion is ephemeral. Taste and public opinion having no corporal identity, are nothing but
the passing fancy of a given generation.

Dress to a woman always seems an important matter, and to be well dressed it is necessary to
be suitably clothed. Of course breeches, high boots or leggings are essential in riding; but
a neatly arranged divided skirt, reaching well below the knee, can be worn over these articles,
and the effect produced is anything but inelegant. Of one thing we may be certain, namely,
that whenever English women summon up enough courage to ride their horses man fashion again,
every London tailor will immediately set himself to design becoming and useful divided skirts
for the purpose.

I strongly advocate the abolition of the side saddle for the country, hunting, or rough journeys,
for three reasons--1st, safety; 2nd, comfort; 3rd, health.

I. Of course nothing is easier under ordinary circumstances than to "stick on" a side saddle,
because the pommels almost hold one there: herein lies much danger. In the case of a horse
falling, for instance, a woman (although doubtless helped by the tight skirts of the day) cannot
extricate herself. She is caught in the pommels or entangled by the stirrups, both of which
calamities mean dragging, and often result in a horrible death.

II. Miss Bird, in her famous book of travels, tells us how terribly her back suffered from
hard riding on a side-saddle, and how easily she accomplished the same distances when, disregarding
conventionalities, she adopted a man's seat.

The wife of a well-known Consul-General, who, in company with her husband, rode in similar
fashion from Shanghai to St. Petersburgh through Siberia, always declared such a feat would
have been impossible for her to achieve on a side-saddle. Further, the native women of almost
all countries ride astride to this day, as they did in England in the fourteenth century.

My own experience as to comfort will be found in the following pages, and I can only add that
greater knowledge has strengthened my opinion.

III. Cross riding has been considered injurious to health by a few members of the medical profession,
but the majority hold a different opinion.

When discussing the subject with Sir John Williams--one of the greatest authorities on the
diseases of women--he said, "I do not see that any harm could arise from women riding like
men. Far from it. I cannot indeed conceive why the side saddle was ever invented at all." What
more could be urged in favour of cross riding.

Do we not all know that many girls become crooked when learning to ride, and have to mount
on the off side in order to counteract the mischief. Is this not proof in itself of how unnatural
the position must be?

As women ride at the present moment, horses with sore backs are unfortunately no rarity. It
is true these galls are caused by bad riding; still, such things would be avoided with a man's
saddle, which is far lighter than a woman's, and easier to carry, because the rider's weight
is not on one side, but equally distributed--a great comfort to the horse's loins and withers.

We all know that a woman's horse is far sooner knocked up with a hard day than one ridden by
a man, although the man is probably the heavier weight of the two, and this merely because
he is properly balanced.

Since this little book made its first appearance, many ladies have followed the advice therein
contained, and visited "the most volcanic region of the earth," peeped at Iceland's snow-clad
peaks and deeply indented fjords, made acquaintance with its primitive people, and ridden their
shaggy ponies. Practically Iceland remains the same to-day as it was a century ago. Time passes
unheeded within its borders, and a visit to the country is like returning to the Middle Ages.
Excepting in the capital, to all intents and purposes, no change is to be noted; and even there
the main square opposite the governor's house forms the chief cod-fish drying-ground, while
every summer the same odours ascend from the process as greeted travellers of yore.

Thanks, however, to the courtesy of a couple of friends, I am able to mention a few innovations.
Dr. Karl Grossman, who travelled through the north-west of the island, on geology intent, has
kindly furnished me with excellent photographs of ponies.

Mr. T. J. Jeaffreson, who knows the island well, intends before joining Mr. Frederick Jackson's
polar expedition, to explore and cross the interior of Iceland from east to west during the
winter of 1894-95, on or about the 68th parallel, traversing the practically unknown districts
of Storis-anch, Spengis-andr, and O-dadahraimm, and returning across the Vatna Jokull or Great
Ice Desert. His reasons for wishing to cross in the winter are, first, that in summer ponies
must be used for the journey, and they could not carry sufficient food and fuel for the expedition
as well as fodder for themselves; second, the roughness of the ground and the weight of the
burdens would necessitate very short distances being traversed each day.

Mr. Jeaffreson will, as did Dr. Nansen when he crossed Greenland, use ski and Canadian snow-shoes,
and drag his own sledges, in preference to using ponies or dogs. We may look for an interesting
volume on the natural history of Iceland from his pen.

Some slight but desirable improvements have been effected in the Capital Reykjavik, the most
important being the erection of quite a nice little hotel "Iseland," which is kept by Halburg,
who speaks excellent English, and whose son, formerly a waiter in this country, is a good sportsman
and guide. Ponies are supplied at this hotel.

The chief guide in Iceland is now Thorgrimmer Goodmanson. He speaks several languages fluently,
and is by profession the English and Latin schoolmaster; during the summer months, nevertheless,
he acts as guide.

The museum has been much enlarged, and is now located in the House of Parliament.

There is a new hospital, and very good public washing sheds have been erected for the town
at the hot springs about a mile distant.

There are now several shops, perhaps a dozen, and among them an excellent sporting outfitters,
where English cartridges and salmon flies can be procured.

Most of the pony track from Meijkjavik to Akureyri has been marked by stone cairns which show
black against the winter's snow; and as there is now a post for nine months of the year (the
boats running occasionally in the winter), letters are carried on horseback across from the
capital to Akureyri every four weeks.

The "Camöens" runs no longer, but the Danish boats stop at Leith once a fortnight (excepting
during January, February, and March, when the island is ice-bound), and after calling at three
places in the Faroës and at Westmann Islands (weather permitting) go straight to Reykjavik.

The road from the capital to the Geysers is as rough as ever, but at Thingvalla Parsonage two
or three little cabin bed-rooms have been put up, beds being very preferable to the floor in
the opinion of weary travellers.

Tents are still necessary at the Geysers, although a two-roomed shed is in process of erection
for the accommodation of visitors.

The Stroker Geyser, which stopped for some time, is now working again, and is kept covered
with a little lattice wood lid.

Mr. Jeaffreson told me that at Yellowstone Park, in America, visitors are carefully watched
to see that they do not make the geysers work artificially by means of soap. [Footnote: Hardly
explicable in such small quantities by chemistry or physics.] Remembering this experience the
last time he went to Iceland, he packed some 2lb. bars of common soap among his luggage.

"When I got to the Geysers," he continued, "the dirty old Icelander guarding them asked me
for 5 kroner to make the Stroker play. When I refused his request he became most abusive, but,
seeing I was inexorable, finally went away, declaring the geyser would never play unless I
paid him, and I declaring as emphatically that it would, and directly too.

"As soon as he was at a safe distance I looked up my bars of soap, and dropping a couple of
them under the lid, awaited the result. Very shortly a hiss and a groan were heard, and up
went the boiling water, sending the wooden grating into the air.

"Back rushed the dirty man, not knowing whether to abuse or worship me as a worker of miracles.
He was profoundly impressed, and finally declared he had never seen Stroker play so well before,
but----'Was it the Devil who had worked the game?'

"I had not enough soap left to try the big geyser, so waited a couple of days to see it play.
Fortunately it did so in the end."

If the story of Stroker spread, which it is sure to do in such a very superstitious country,
Mr. Jeaffreson will be regarded with a certain amount of awe when he starts on his ski (snow-shoes)
expedition next winter.

Although his proposed trip is somewhat dangerous, I hope he may return as happily as Dr. Nansen
did from Greenland, and extract as much pleasure out of his skilöbning as we contrived to do
by visiting Norway when that glorious land was covered with snow and bound by ice.

When I pen these last lines, on July 12, 1894, I have just returned from seeing Frederick Jackson
and his gallant followers steam away down Thames in their quest of the North Pole. A party
of friends and several leading Arctic explorers assembled at Cannon-street Station this morning
to see the English Polar Expedition off. Five minutes before the train left, Frederick Jackson,
who having discarded the frock coat and top hat which had earned for him the reputation of
"resembling a smart guardsman with handsome bronzed features," appeared upon the scene with
his favourite brother. To-day the leader of the expedition looked like an English yachtsman
in blue serge; but he did not personally provoke so much comment as his luggage. All the heavy
things were already on board the "Windward," anchored off Greenhithe. When the hero of the
hour arrived, a large Inverness cape on his arm, carrying a bundle of fur rugs, his only article
of luggage was a large tin bath!

"A bath," we cried.

"Yes," he laughingly replied, "I've had a small bath-room built on the ship, and when we get
into our winter quarters on Bell Island I shall use my 'baby's bath.' I can rough it, and I
have roughed it for years, but there is one thing I can't go without--a good tub."

What a true Englishman!

Frederick Jackson was in the best of spirits, and never gave way for a moment, although those
many, many good-byes exchanged with intimate friends must have been a sore trial. In spite
of his tremendous self-control, he is strangely tender-hearted and affectionate by nature.

When we reached Greenhithe it was raining; but the boats from the "Worcester," manned by smart
lads, were waiting for us, and with hard pulling--for the tide was running fast--we were all
soon clambering up a rope ladder to the "Windward's" decks. There was not much room. Food at
full rations (6-1/2 lb. per man per diem) for eight men for four years fills a good space,
and five or six tons of cod liver oil biscuits for the dogs, twelve tons of compressed hay
for the ponies, sledges, tents, boats, clothing, &c., was more than the hold could accommodate,
and some of the things strewed the deck.

There was considerable fun getting the shaggy black retrievers on board, for they could not
walk up a rope ladder, and were almost too big to carry.

Just as we were all leaving to go on board the "Worcester" and watch the final start, it was
discovered that one of the picked eight of the land party had never turned up!

Had he lost heart, or made a mistake as to the time of departure?

Great was the consternation, and eagerly all eyes were turned to the shore; but still he came
not. As it afterwards transpired, he had missed his train; and, far from his courage having
failed at the last moment, so eager was he to be off, he travelled on to Gravesend, where,
thanks to the courtesy of an official of high rank, he was put on board a gunboat, and raced
down the Thames, just managing to get alongside the Arctic ship before it was too late.

From H.M.S. "Worcester" we watched the anchor weighed, and as the boys manned the rigging of
the two training ships, they sent up a tremendous roar of cheers. Flags were flying on every
side, for several yachts had come to see the start. "God Save the Queen" sounded across the
water from the land, and the sun came out and shone brightly as the stout whaler "Windward"
steamed away with her party of Polar explorers in the best of spirits.

A couple of months hence they will be settling down in their winter quarters in Franz Josef
Land, there to wait through the Arctic darkness for the return of the sun, when they will push
on towards the North Pole, leaving a chain of depôts behind them.

Everyone must wish them "God speed."

They may meet Dr. Nansen, and Mr. Jackson was immensely amused when I handed him a letter for
my good friend--addressed

                                    DR. FRIDTJOF NANSEN,
                                               NORTH POLE.

Kindly favoured by F. G. Jackson.

How strange it will be if these two adventurous men really meet and shake hands beneath the
Polar star! May good fortune attend them, and their enthusiasm be rewarded.

                                E. B. T.
    LONDON, 12th July, 1894.

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

                                                        PAGE

PORTRAIT OF AUTHOR       (Frontispiece) Herbert Schmalz

FIRST VIEW OF ICELAND                          Author  28

AKUREYRI                    Dr. Grossman (photograph)  32

NATIVE WOMAN                          Herbert Schmalz  34

THE FERRY                                Dr. Grossman  37

PONIES FORDING RIVER                        "            63

OUR MODE OF RIDING                        G. D. Giles  66

ICELANDIC FARM                                 Author  74

DRANGEY FROM REYKIR                             "        79

HRUTA FJORD AND FARM                            "        86

SNAEFELL JÖKULL                                 "        90

REYKJAVIK                               F. P. Fellows  91

THINGVALLA PARSONAGE                           Author 114

PONIES CROSSING LAKE                     Dr. Grossman 117

STROKER IN ERUPTION                            Author 122

NATIVE IMPLEMENTS                               "       132

DIAGRAM OF GEYSERS              George Harley, F.R.S. 164

MAP OF ICELAND.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.                                                          PAGE

  Our Start--Description of Party--Messrs R. & D. Slimon,
  of Leith--Kit and Provisions--Slimon's Ticket
  Office--Non-Arrival of One of the Party--Final Preparations,         1

CHAPTER II.

  Under Weigh--Price of Tickets--Crew and General
  Accommodation--Rough Weather--Shelter in Sinclair
  Bay--Letters taken off by Fishing Smack--Fellow
  Passengers--Sight First Whale--John o' Groat's House,               12

CHAPTER III.

  Land Sighted--Man Overboard--His Recovery
  described--Iceland Sighted--Temperature and Position of
  the Island--Anchored off Akureyri--Icelandic Boat--Male
  and Female Costumes,                                                24

CHAPTER IV.

  Akureyri--Pack Ponies--No Wheeled Conveyances--Woman's
  Saddle--House Interior--Staple Food--Absence of Domestic
  Animals and Timber--An Akureyri Dinner--Constitution of
  the Reykjavik Bank--Icelandic and English Money
  Table--Gléra Waterfall--Frost Mounds--Shark Oil
  Manufactory--Native Artist and Poet--Establishment of an
  Icelandic College,                                                  37

CHAPTER V.

  Historical Notes--Early History of
  Iceland--Population--Commonwealth Established--Conquest
  of the Isle of Man--Tynwald Hill--Chronological Dates--A
  Curious Custom--Landing of First Christian
  Missionary--Roman Catholicism embraced--Annexation to
  Norway--Area of the Island--Its Lakes and Rivers,                   52

CHAPTER VI.

  Sauderkrok--An Auction--Imports and Exports--Experience
  in Riding a Man's Saddle--Costume--Sketching--Curiosity
  of the Natives--Ride to Reykir--Hot Springs--A Young
  Student--Literature and Language--The Sagas,                        63

CHAPTER VII.

  Reykir--A Farm House--Skyr--Hot Springs utilised for
  Washing purposes--A Legend--The Eider
  Duck--Hay--Icelandic Flora--Bordeyri--Curious Form of
  Hospitality--Emigrants--12th August--Within the Arctic
  Circle,                                                             75

CHAPTER VIII.

  Reykjavik--Preparations for Visiting the
  Geysers--Principal Buildings--Founding of the Town by
  'Tugolfi'--A Primitive Newspaper--Start for the
  Geysers--Professor Geikie on Icelandic
  Volcanoes--Eruptions--Skaptar-Jökull--Lunch in the Valley
  of the Seljadalr--Thingvalla Lake--The Almannagya,                  92

CHAPTER IX.

  Thingvalla--Site of the First Icelandic Parliament--The
  Althing--Conversion to Christianity--Abolition of the
  Althing--New Constitution of 1874--Thingvalla
  Parsonage--Antique Grinding Machine--A Tintron--Dust
  Storm--Hot Springs--Arrival at the Geysers,                        107

CHAPTER X.

  The Geysers--Tents blown down--The Great Geyser--Eruption
  of the 'Stroker'--Professor Geikie and Dr Kneeland on
  Geysers--Dinner--A Night in a Tent--Hot Springs of the
  District--Hecla in the Distance--Farewell to the Geysers,          121

CHAPTER XI.

  Farm House--An Icelandic Dairy--Farm Kitchen--A Family
  Bedroom--Bruara Bridge--Back to
  Reykjavik--Population--The Great Awk--Leave
  Iceland--Northern Lights--Land at Granton--Table of
  Expenditure,                                                       133

CHAPTER XII.

  Volcanoes--The Askja Volcano--Large Fissure in Midge Lake
  Desert--Krafla--Skaptar-Jökull--Great Eruption of
  1783--Hecla--Thermal Springs--The Usahver,                         147

APPENDIX.

  'Geysers'--Dr George Harley, F.R.S.,                              157

A GIRL'S RIDE IN ICELAND.

CHAPTER I.

OUR START.

As the London season, with its thousand and one engagements, that one tries to cram into the
shortest possible time, draws to a close, the question uppermost in every one's mind is, 'Where
shall we go this autumn?' And a list of places well trodden by tourists pass through the brain
in rapid succession, each in turn rejected as too far, too near, too well known, or not embracing
a sufficient change of scene.

Switzerland? Every one goes to Switzerland: that is no rest, for one meets half London there.
Germany? The same answer occurs, and so on ad infinitum.

'Suppose we make up a party and visit Iceland?' was suggested by me to one of my friends on
a hot July day as we sat chatting together discussing this weighty question, fanning ourselves
meanwhile under a temperature of ninety degrees; the position of Iceland, with its snow-capped
hills and cool temperature seeming positively refreshing and desirable. Mad as the idea seemed
when first proposed in mere banter, it ended, as these pages will prove, by our turning the
suggestion into a reality, and overcoming the difficulties of a trip which will ever remain
engraven on my memory as one of the most agreeable experiences of my life.

When I ventilated the idea outside my private 'den,' wherein it first arose, it was treated
as far too wild a scheme for serious consideration--for 'Iceland,' to Londoners, seems much
the same in point of compass as the moon! And there really is some similarity in the volcanic
surface of both. Here, however, the similarity ends, for while the luminary is indeed inaccessible,
the island can easily be reached without any very insurmountable difficulty.

The somewhat natural opposition which our plan at first met with, only stimulated our desire
the more to carry it into effect. The first step was to gain the permission of our parents,
which, after some reluctance, was granted, and the necessary ways and means finally voted;
our next was to collect together a suitable party from our numerous friends, and take all necessary
measures to secure the success of the undertaking.

As soon as our purpose became known and discussed among our immediate circle of friends, many
volunteers appeared anxious to share the triumphs of so novel an enterprise.

Thus our number at first promised to be somewhat larger than we had anticipated. Happily, however,
for its success, as it afterwards proved, these aspirants for 'fame,' on learning the length
of the passage, the possible discomforts, and other obstacles, dropped off one by one, till
only my brother and myself, with three other friends, remained firm to our purpose.

It may be well here to introduce our party individually to my readers.

First, my brother, whom, for convenience sake in these pages, I will call by his Christian
name, 'Vaughan,' and whom I looked upon as the head of the expedition, as, without his protection,
I should never have been allowed to undertake the trip.

He was a medical student in Edinburgh (since fully qualified), and well suited to the enterprise,
being of a scientific turn of mind, as well as practical and energetic,--a first-rate rider,
an oarsman, and a good sailor, whilst he had spent his vacations for some years in travelling.

My friend Miss T., my sole lady companion, a handsome girl of a thoroughly good-natured and
enterprising disposition, was, on the contrary, no horsewoman, but the exigencies of a trip
in Iceland soon made her one. She was an excellent German scholar, and a great assistance to
our party in this respect, as the natives could often understand German, from the resemblance
of that language to Danish.

As it proved afterwards, it was really fortunate that we had not more than two ladies in our
party, for a larger number could hardly have met with the necessary accommodation. Ladies are
such rare visitors in Iceland, that little or no preparation is made for their comfort. The
captain of our vessel told us that during several voyages last year he had not a single female
passenger on board.

H. K. Gordon, an Anglo-Indian, on leave from Calcutta for his health, was likewise a valuable
addition to our number. He was accustomed to tent life and camping out, and helped us much
in similar experiences.

A. L. T., who completed our party, was a keen sportsman, but the novelties of the trip overbalanced
his love for Scotland and the attractions of the 12th of August--no small sacrifice, especially
as our travelling proved too rapid to enable him to make much use of his gun, although we often
saw game in our various rides.

Of myself, I have only to say that, being worn out with the gaieties of a London season, I
looked forward to a trip to 'Ultima Thule' with pleasurable anticipations, which were ultimately
fully realised.

Five is not a bad number to form a travelling company, and a very happy five we were, although
entirely thrown on our own resources for twenty-five days. Of course we were often placed in
the queerest positions, over which we laughed heartily; for on starting we agreed that we would
each and all make the best of whatever obstacles we might encounter, and it is certainly no
use going to Iceland, or any other out-of-the-way place, if one cannot cheerfully endure the
absence of accustomed luxuries. Travellers not prepared to do this had better remain at home.

The decision once arrived at that Iceland was to be our Autumn destination, we endeavoured
to collect from our travelling friends any information on the subject, either as regarded route,
outfit, or mode of travelling, and whether the scenery and novelty of the trip were likely
to repay us for the trouble and roughing we should have to undergo; but unfortunately all our
investigations were futile, as we found no one who had any personal knowledge of the Island.
I, however, remembered Dr John Rae, the famous discoverer of the Franklin remains, was an old
friend of my father's, and therefore wrote to ask him if he could help us in our difficulties,
but his answer was not of a cheering nature, as he had not been in the Island for twenty-five
years, and he had then only crossed from east to west--from Bevufjord to Kekiaviati, which
did not form part of our route. He further stated he thought it was too arduous an undertaking
for ladies, and dissuaded us from making the attempt. Failing to obtain any assistance from
such a high authority, we concluded that it would be useless to make any further inquiries
among our personal friends; we were therefore compelled to rely upon our own resources, and
extract what information we could from guide books. Our inquiry at a London ticket office whether
the officials could give us any particulars as to our route, was equally unsuccessful, the
astonished clerk remarking,--'I was once asked for a ticket to the North Pole, but I have never
been asked for one to Iceland.'

But although we never procured any personal experiences, we found there was no lack of interesting
historical and geological literature respecting the Island.

Our first step was to place ourselves in communication with Messrs R. D. Slimon, of Leith,
the managers of the Icelandic Steamship Company, from whom we learnt that the next steamer
would start from Leith on the 31st July (such, at least, was the advertised time and place),
but it really left Granton, some three miles further up the Forth, an hour and a half later
than was originally fixed.

Before proceeding any further, it may be well to mention the important subjects of outfit and
provisions. As we were not going upon a fashionable tour, it was not necessary to provide ourselves
with anything but what was really needed. Intending travellers must recollect that, as all
inland journeys are performed on ponies, and the luggage can only be slung across the animals'
backs, large boxes or trunks are out of the question, and it is necessary to compress one's
outfit into the smallest possible dimensions. The following list will be found quite sufficient
for the journey.

A thick serge dress, short and plain for rough wear, with a cloth one in change; a tight-fitting
thick jacket, good mackintosh, and very warm fur cloak; one pair of high mackintosh riding
boots (like fisherman's waders), necessary for crossing rivers and streams; a yachting cap
or small tight-fitting hat, with a projecting peak to protect the eyes from the glare--blue
glasses, which are a great comfort; thick gauntlet gloves; a habit skirt is not necessary.

My brother has given me a list of things he found most useful. Two rough homespun or serge
suits: riding breeches, which are absolutely indispensable; riding boots laced up the centre,
and large, as they are continually getting wet; flannel shirts; thick worsted stockings; a
warm ulster, and mackintosh.

Instead of trusting to the pack boxes provided by the natives, a soft waterproof 'hold-all,'
or mule boxes, would be an additional comfort.

On one of our long rides, two pack ponies came into collision, they both fell, the path being
very narrow, and rolled over one another. To our horror, one pack box was broken to pieces,
while another lost its bottom, and there in all the dust lay tooth brushes, sponge bags, etc.,
not to mention other necessaries of the toilet.

Rugs, mackintosh sheets, and pillows are required for camping out, also towels. Although the
Icelanders provide tents, it is advisable to take your own if feasible. Provisions are absolutely
requisite--tinned meats and soup, and a cooked ham or tongues; tea, sugar, cocoa, biscuits
(of a hard make), and as no white bread is to be procured, it is as well to induce the ship's
steward to provide some loaves before starting on an expedition. Butter can be obtained at
Reikjavik. Japanned plates and mugs, knives, forks, and spoons, must not be forgotten. We provided
ourselves with wine and spirits, which we found of great use to face the cold.

Our purchases being made and our party complete, we arranged to start from Euston on Thursday,
29th July, and go north by the night train. My brother, however, was to meet us at Edinburgh,
as he had been away in his small yacht, coasting near Dunbar. We had, however, sent him all
particulars as to our plans. Under the best circumstances, and despite sleeping saloons, and
other luxuries, it is a long and tedious journey to Scotland, and we were not sorry to find
it at an end, as, with a puff and a shriek, our train entered the Waverley Station, Edinburgh.

Notwithstanding our fatigue, we took a somewhat regretful look at that steam marvel of civilisation,
which had brought us thus far on our journey, and to which we now bade farewell for a month,
at least, for a much ruder and more primitive mode of travelling.

Some friends had kindly offered to put us up during our short stay, so we made our way to their
house, and were soon enjoying the luxuries of a wash and a good breakfast. My brother had arranged
to meet us there, but as he did not put in an appearance, we determined to go in search of
him at his rooms.

Imagine our dismay on arriving there to be told by his landlady that he had been absent for
a week, yachting, and had not yet returned, whilst all our letters detailing our final plans,
and date of arrival in Edinburgh, were lying unopened on the table.

We at once determined to take energetic measures to discover any tidings of his whereabouts.
As it was necessary to go to Leith to engage cabins and take tickets, we decided to push on
to Granton, where I knew he kept his boat, and inquire at the Royal Forth Yacht Club if they
knew anything about The Lily and her owner.

A tram car took Miss T. and myself to Leith, and after sundry inquiries, we found ourselves
in front of an ordinary tin-shop, over which the name 'Slimon' was painted in large letters
of gold--an unlikely-looking place, we thought, to take tickets for such an important voyage.

In answer to our inquiries, 'Yes, mum, the office is next door,' was vouchsafed to us in the
broadest Scotch dialect, by a clerk, who escorted us there, carrying with him a huge bunch
of keys, looking more like a gaoler conducting prisoners, than two ladies innocently requiring
tickets. We were ushered into a dingy little office, where we found the only occupant was a
cat! Our conductor was extremely ignorant, and unable to supply us with any information, his
answer to every question being, 'I dinna ken,' or 'I canna say.'

I explained to him what anxiety I was in about my missing brother, and that our party would
have to be broken up unless he appeared before the morrow; consequently, it would be useless
for us to purchase tickets until we heard from him. He blurted out in a broad and almost unintelligible
dialect, which I am unable to reproduce, that we need not pay until we were on board the steamer,
adding, that probably the dead calm since the previous night had delayed The Lily. I knew Vaughan
had intended going out beyond Dunbar, and feared that he might be out in a gale; but if only
becalmed, I felt certain he would somehow manage to get ashore in the dinghy, and was confident
he had ascertained for himself, independently of our unopened letters, the date of the steamer's
starting, and was too old a traveller to fail his party, and so spoil the expedition in toto.

Rattling over the stones to Granton in a terribly rickety 'machine,' as our northern friends
call their cabs, the first old salt we encountered on the pier replied to our anxious inquiry,
'Why, that's The Lily sailing round the harbour's mouth,' as at that moment she slowly rounded
the pier.

When Vaughan came ashore, he told us, after running from Dunbar in a gale, he had been becalmed
for two days, and it had taken the whole of that day to cross 'the Forth.' He had not hurried
particularly, however, thinking we were not travelling North till the next day, no letters
having been forwarded to him. Thus ended happily what might have been a great catastrophe,
and compelled us to abandon the expedition.

That night we returned with him to Edinburgh, and on rising next morning from probably the
last comfortable bed we should enjoy for some time, we were cheered by a bright sun and cloudless
sky--a pleasant forecast for the voyage in prospect. We made several purchases in Princes Street,
inclusive of an extra deck chair, warm rugs, etc., and received an influx of 'bon voyage' telegrams
from our London friends--the last home news we should get for a month. Yes, four weeks is a
long time never to hear of one's nearest and dearest, or they to hear of you. What might not
happen in the interval? So much, indeed, that it passes contemplation, and we had best leave
it, and content ourselves with the fact that we had left every one well, and everything all
right when we started.

At the pier we found the tender waiting to take us to the Camoens, the steamer which was to
convey us to the goal of our ambition, namely, Iceland.

How many and varied were our experiences before we steamed alongside that pier again!

CHAPTER II.

UNDER WEIGH.

The Camoens, named after the Portuguese poet of that name, is a fair-sized steamer of 1200
tons, which runs during the summer and autumn months at regular intervals of about once in
four weeks, between Granton and Reikjavik, the capital of Iceland, calling en route at other
ports. Subjoined is a map of the Island, with a red boundary line marking the course of the
steamer, and her usual halting places.

Her average run, inclusive of stoppage at the various trading ports, is six or seven days at
most; but in steaming direct from Granton to the Icelandic capital, the voyage does not occupy
more than three and a half days, if the weather is favourable.

On reaching the Camoens, we found the rest of our party already arrived, and we joined forces
at once. All was not ready, however, on board, for the stowage of the cargo was still in full
swing, and sacks of flour and trusses of hay were being alternately hurled round on the crane
and lowered on deck, sailors and 'odd hands' rushing hither and thither in the wildest confusion.

Just before our arrival a serious accident had occurred. The steward was returning from market,
when the crane struck him and knocked him down, injuring the poor man sadly, breaking both
his arms, and causing severe contusions of the head. He was carried ashore to the hospital,
and but slight hopes were entertained of his recovery.

This fatality caused the greatest inconvenience, for independent of his being a valuable steward,
and the sorrow to his messmates at his accident, it is not generally easy, just as a steamer
is leaving port, to find a substitute. Happily, in this case, a former steward being disengaged,
the captain at once secured his services; but as he only came on board at the last moment,
and neither knew where the supplies were stored, nor of what they consisted, the ship's company
was thereby put to much inconvenience during the voyage.

Messrs Slimons' agent was on board the Camoens with his ticket book, and our tickets were at
once procured; not expensive by any means, being only £8 each person to Iceland and back, including
the trip round the Island; our food being charged at the rate of 6s. 6d. per day extra.

The best berth cabin had been reserved for Miss T. and myself, the one opposite for the three
gentlemen, with an intermediate passage, which latter proved a great comfort, as it contained
hooks for coats and cloaks, and room for two portmanteaus.

The cabins were unusually small, and required very close arrangement of our effects, and the
extra hooks and cabin bags for the wall we had brought with us were most useful.

Our crew numbered thirty-two in all, and rough-looking specimens of humanity they indeed appeared.
We had two stewardesses, who also waited at table, and made themselves generally useful. These
were slatternly in appearance, but were very attentive and kind-hearted. There were seven firemen,
two working at the same time for four hours at a stretch, thus each couple did duty twice in
the twenty-four hours; which means eight hours in the engine-room out of the twenty-four.

There were forty berths on board the Camoens, only nineteen of which were occupied during the
outward voyage. The ship carried no surgeon, consequently my brother was frequently applied
to in cases of burns, sprains, etc.

The captain had a large Board of Trade medicine chest, of which he kept the key, and from which
he usually administered the contents when required, to the best of his medical knowledge. I
must here refer with ready praise to the kindness of Captain Robertson, a most worthy man,
and of general information. He often came and sat with us in the evening in the saloon, or
smoked with the gentlemen, and many and varied were the yarns he spun.

We got under weigh about 4.30 on Saturday afternoon, July 31st, being tugged out of the harbour
at Granton. The Firth of Forth was then as calm as a lake, scarce a ripple to be seen on its
surface. A previous thunderstorm had freshened the air, the rain which had fallen had ceased,
and those lovely mists and tints usually to be seen after a storm, had taken the place of the
dark clouds now rolling away in the distance. Inchkeith was spanned by a lovely rainbow, and
peace, quiet, and beauty reigned around. The water, indeed, was more like a large lake, such
as the 'Chiem See' in Bavaria--dotted with its islands--than an inlet of the sea.

On we steamed, passing Leith, Portobello, North Berwick, with the Bass Rock and the coast of
Fife, and, as evening drew on, May Island and Bell Rock. It was indeed a lovely night. The
sky, lit up with the deep, warm glow of the departing sun, cast a rosy hue over the whole expanse
of water. A night, indeed, so perfect, we all agreed it was worth coming to sea to witness
and enjoy.

The human mind is, however, versatile, and before morning we had cause to change our ideas,
and several of us already wished ourselves again at home!

On entering the Moray Firth the evening calm of the untroubled sea was exchanged for rough
billows, and hour by hour we became more and more miserable, each alike in turn paying our
tribute to Neptune, and truly realising the difference between a voyage in prospect and one
in stern reality.

My brother, Mr Gordon, the captain, and two other passengers were the sole occupants of the
saloon at breakfast. At luncheon, the latter couple were also absent, and more people than
ourselves bewailed their misery, and wished themselves back ashore.

The rolling of the steamer was tremendous. It pitched and tossed to such an extent that our
bags and other things in our cabin were tumbled about in every direction. Despite the discomfort,
we struggled on deck about twelve o'clock, hoping the air would revive us, and in half an hour
felt quite other persons.

The worst of a rough sea is, that when one is feeling sick, and air is most needed, one is
obliged to shut the portholes, and only imbibe that which comes from the saloon--a mixture
of fumes by no means invigorating.

I had always prided myself on being a good sailor when on yachting excursions and short sea
voyages, but that 'Moray Firth' undeceived me in this respect. My misery, however, soon wore
off, and save on this occasion, and one day on our return voyage, even in the rough days we
encountered in the Northern Atlantic, my peace of mind was not further disturbed.

This first day was indeed a miserable initiation into the hitherto unknown horrors of the sea,
and no greater contrast could be possible than the calm of the night before and that wretched
Sunday. It rained and blew great guns all day long, and by 6 P.M. the weather culminated in
a severe gale, with the glass steadily falling, followed by a heavy thunderstorm, with vivid
forked lightning. So furious indeed was the storm, that after passing Duncansby Head, and John
o' Groat's House, our captain turned back and ran his vessel into Sinclair Bay, riding at anchor
there for the night, not being willing, in the face of such weather, to attempt the 'Pentland
Firth.'

The bay was calm, and the gentle movement of the waves was like the rocking of an arm-chair
after the shaking and rolling we had experienced. We all enjoyed our dinner in peace, whilst
the warmth of the cabin was a pleasant change from the searching cold on deck, which, despite
furs and rugs, had pierced us through and through. Before we retired for the night, two other
vessels had likewise put into the bay for safety from the elements, and here we were compelled
to remain for forty-two hours while the storm still raged outside. Captain Robertson was a
sensible man; when we asked him why he had put into Sinclair Bay, he said he considered it
wiser to 'lay-to' for a few hours, and make up the time afterwards, rather than push on through
such a gale, burning coal, and only making a knot or two an hour, perhaps not even that, straining
the ship with her screw continually out of the water, making every one miserable, and gaining
nothing. To this we all agreed, so in quiet waters we passed a comfortable night, and consequently
all the passengers put in an appearance next morning at breakfast.

As dirty weather was still reported ahead, we also spent Monday (a Bank holiday) in the bay.
Alongside of us lay a large steamer, which had tried the Pentland Firth in the morning, but
after five unsuccessful hours had been obliged to put back. This steamer had shifted her cargo,
and lay over on her side, in a way that looked to me alarming; we left her in the bay when
we weighed anchor on Tuesday at mid-day.

On the previous night some fishing boats put out from Keiss for herring fishing, and one came
so near to us that we were tempted to prepare some letters and telegrams, a sailor on board
our vessel saying he would try and drop them into the boat, in a basket. We tied them, therefore,
up in a bag, with the necessary money for delivery, and watched their fate with anxiety. 'Letters,'
shouted our sailor, but the fishermen shook their heads, evidently thinking it too rough to
approach nearer to the steamer. Again the word 'Letters' was repeated, when another fishing
smack responded 'Ay, ay,' and tacked, and as she shot past us, on our lee side, the basket
was dropped over, accompanied by a bottle of whisky and ten shillings (the two latter being
a douceur for the fishermen themselves) wrapped up for safety in an old rag, and tied to the
bottom of the basket. The smack to which we thus confided our post was going out for the night,
but the men said they would put into Keiss next morning, and promised to send the letters ashore,
which we afterwards found they did, whilst the bottle of whisky proved so acceptable a gift,
that finding us still in Sinclair Bay on Tuesday morning, the fishermen brought some fresh
herrings for breakfast, which they threw on board as they passed, and which proved an acceptable
addition to our breakfast table.

The crew of the smack were a fine-looking set of men, well made, with handsome, frank faces--six
men and a boy; but all they got for their night's danger and toil was some three dozen herrings.
Such is the uncertainty of the deep.

Our ship's passengers numbered fourteen, exclusive of ourselves, and while we remained in Sinclair
Bay, we had a good chance of criticising them. All good fellows, no doubt, but mostly of the
trading class, and not very attractive, physically or mentally. There were two women in the
number, the wife and daughter of a clothier resident in Iceland; but among the entire party
we did not find any one likely to add to the sociability of the voyage, so, English-like, we
kept to ourselves as much as possible.

How inconsistently some people dress on board ship! Our two women fellow-passengers did not
often appear on deck, but when they did venture, despite the wind and rain, the elder wore
an enormous hat, with a long, brown feather, which daily grew straighter, until all its curl
had disappeared; and a light-brown silk dress, on which every drop of rain or spray made its
mark. She was a clothier's wife, and accustomed to sea-travelling; one would have imagined
experience would have taught her the advisability of a less gorgeous style of apparel.

The girl wore a huge white sailor hat, covered with a profusion of red poppies, and her whole
time seemed to be occupied in holding it on her head with both hands to prevent its blowing
away. But it would rain, and the red from the poppies silently trickled all over the hat, and
gradually formed rivulets on her face.

Then there was a very corpulent old man, with a large, square-patterned ulster, and a deer-stalker
hat, tied on with a red silk handkerchief under his chin in a large bow, matching his complexion.
His companion was thin and sallow, and wore a very desponding air, despite a prolific red beard,
which, when we landed, caused much excitement among the Icelanders. I think their admiration
made him feel shy, for after the demonstration made in its favour at the first landing port,
he seldom went ashore, and even during the four days the Camoens lay off Reykjavik, he rarely
left the ship.

Life on board ship is at the best monotonous, and we had to be contented with breathing the
ozone, rejoicing in its health-giving properties, speculating as to the result of the voyage,
and the novel scenes we hoped so soon to witness.

If ever cheap novels have their use, it is certainly on board ship. Soaked with salt water
or rain, it matters not; they most assuredly help to wile away many an hour, and even the usually
non-novel reader is not ashamed to seize the tell-tale yellow-covered volume, and lose himself
in its romance pro tem.

The second day we amused ourselves in making sketches of Noss Head, which one minute was enveloped
in thick mist and rain, and the next stood out, clear and distinct, against a dull, grey sky.

When in the midst of our sketching, lo! quite an excitement prevailed among our ship's company,
viz., the sight of a twenty-five feet bottle-nosed whale, which every one rushed to see, and
which for some time played around the ship, accompanied by a couple of porpoise. The animal
caused as much excitement as if it had been the mythical sea serpent itself. We saw them in
dozens afterwards, but never with the same enthusiasm. Of course, the first whale had to be
immortalised, and two of our party sketched and painted it; not without difficulty, however,
for the rolling of the ship sent the water-colours or the turpentine sliding away at some critical
moment of our work, and, on later occasions, chair, artist, picture, and colours were upset
together in a disconsolate heap on the other side of the ship, much to every one's amusement.

Sketching at sea, in fact, is no easy matter, chiefly from the necessity of rapidity in the
work; while the smuts from the funnel are most exasperating, settling on the paper just where
clear lights are most desirable, and--well, paint in oils on a rough day at sea, with a strong
wind blowing the smoke towards you, and judge for yourself!

We left, as I said, our haven of refuge--Sinclair Bay--on Tuesday at noon, on a clear, bright
day, but with a turbulent sea. However, we passed the Pentland Firth without having to run
into the Orkneys for shelter, passing quite close to Pomona, round Duncansby Head and John
o' Groat's House, a hideous modern hotel in the midst of a desolate bay.

Some people say that the story of John o' Groat's is merely mythical, and others declare he
was a Scotchman, who, for ferrying folks across the Pentland Firth for fourpence, or a 'groat,'
received his nickname. Again it is said that he was a Dutchman, with eight stalwart sons, who,
having no idea of the law of primogeniture, alike wished to sit at the head of the table, whereupon
John had an octagon table made, which, having neither top nor bottom, saved any wrangling for
preeminence in his family.

Dunnet Head, which we next passed, is the most northerly point of Scotland. 'Stroma,' viz.,
the Orkneys, lay on our right, standing out in relief against a lovely sky--just such a picture
as John Brett loves to paint.

We were all much struck by the variety of birds in the Pentlands--wild geese, ducks, northern
divers, and puffins, with, of course, the never absent gull. What a melancholy noise the gull
makes, crying sometimes exactly like a child. And yet it is a pleasing companion on a desolate
expanse of water, and most amusing to watch as it dives for biscuit or anything eatable thrown
to it from the ship's side. Some of the gentlemen tried to capture them with a piece of fat
bacon tied to a string; but although Mr Gull would swallow the bacon, he sternly refused to
be landed.

CHAPTER III.

LAND SIGHTED.

On leaving the choppy 'Pentland Firth,' we now entered on still rougher waters, encountering
an Atlantic swell, caused by the previous storm. How the ship rolled! Walking on deck became
impossible, while sitting in our deck chairs was nearly as bad, for they threatened to slide
from under us. In despair we sought our berths, but to get into them in such a sea was a matter
of difficulty, which practice in smooth waters had not taught us. Tuesday evening we bade adieu
to the coast of Scotland, but what a boisterous night followed! Oh, dear! that eternal screw
made sleeping at first impossible; we had not noticed its motion while on deck, but as soon
as we laid our heads on our pillows, its monotonous noise seemed to grind our very brains.
At last fatigue gained the victory, and I slept for some hours.

A sudden stoppage of the vessel awoke me at last with a start; it was still dark, but I heard
loud talking and running about on deck overhead. Alarmed I sat up in my berth, and wondered
what was the matter. All at once the screw again revolved and then again stopped, and was once
more in motion. We seemed to be going backward. I knew we were at least one hundred miles from
Scotland, and there was no land nearer.

Wishing to learn what was going on, for in my half-awakened state, visions of icebergs and
collisions rushed through my excited mind, I hastily summoned the stewardess, and asked what
was the matter to cause such a commotion overhead. I learnt from her that an unusual and almost
fatal event had just occurred. The man at the wheel, suddenly seized with a suicidal mania,
had rushed from his post, possessed himself of two mops, which were lying on the deck, and
putting one under each arm, with a wild and fiendish shriek had jumped overboard. The captain
immediately stopped the ship and ordered a boat to be lowered; but owing to the high sea running,
some time elapsed before this could be accomplished, and in the meantime the man had drifted
some way from the vessel, and in the grey morning light his form was barely discernible in
the trough of the waves. Notwithstanding the danger, the moment the boat was lowered there
were no lack of volunteers to man her; but so persistent was the unfortunate man's resolve
to perish, that he eluded all the efforts of his rescuers to capture him, and every time he
was approached, swam away. The men at the oars had nearly given in, themselves soaked to the
skin, when a cheery call from the captain urged them on afresh.

It was only when exhaustion and numbness had rendered the poor maniac unconscious, that the
sailors were able to pull him on board in an almost lifeless condition.

At breakfast time the captain informed us that the man's life had only been restored by constant
rubbing; and that the poor creature seemed so violent, he had been obliged to have him locked
up, probably a case of temporary insanity, which the captain attributed to the moon! For some
days the poor deluded creature was very violent, and made many efforts to escape from his confinement.
On one occasion he succeeded in getting half his body through a ventilating hole in his prison,
from which he was extricated with great difficulty. The reason he assigned for jumping into
the sea was that he feared being 'burnt alive,' in the boiler, a punishment in his aberration
he fancied the captain had ordered for him.

As may be supposed, the event caused much excitement on board, at the same time practically
diminishing our crew by two, as one man had constantly to be told off to look after the madman.
His subsequent career was watched with great interest by those on board. His madness continued
during the whole of the voyage, although sometimes he enjoyed lucid intervals, during which
his chief desire was to sing, and he was permitted up on deck, when he amused himself by singing
sailor ditties and dancing hornpipes to his heart's content.

At other times his madness assumed a more dangerous form, and he had to be closely watched,
to prevent him taking his own life. Every kindness was shown him by the captain and ship's
officers and my brother attended him daily. When we reached Leith he was handed over to his
relatives, and was subsequently put into an asylum, where I fear there was little chance of
recovery, as madness was hereditary in his family.

As we steamed on, our voyage became somewhat monotonous, and we longed for the time to pass
when we should reach the first trading port in Iceland, hoping there to imbibe new food for
thought and comment. Our table was very fair; but a small steamer in a rough sea has many disadvantages
in tempting the appetite. I must say the captain did all he could to make us comfortable, but
he was not accustomed to carry lady passengers, and as the 'novelty of discomfort' began to
wear off, it rendered us somewhat sensible to its unaccustomed yoke. There was a small smoking-room
on deck, large enough to hold about eight persons, but which was always filled with smokers.
The only other sitting-room was the saloon, the sofas of which were generally occupied by male
passengers fast asleep, so we ladies had to choose between our berths and the deck, and we
much preferred the latter in all weather, and under all circumstances.

Our fifth day at sea was one of utter misery. At dinner, despite the fiddles, the soup was
landed in my lap, and a glass of champagne turned over before I had time to get it to my lips.
I struggled through the meal bravely, and then went up on deck, but found it far too rough
to walk about, while sitting down was only accomplished by holding fast to some friendly ropes
tied near us with that view. About nine o'clock I sought my berth, but sleep was impossible,
as most of my time was spent in trying to keep within the bounds of my bed, expecting that
every successive lurch would eject me; whilst the port-holes having to be closed (that greatest
of all discomforts in a storm) made the cabin close and unbearable.

The next morning, everybody had the same night's experience to relate, whilst the state of
disorder our cabins were in, proved that we had not exaggerated our misery.

After leaving the Faroes on our right, we never sighted land for two days, nor did we even
see a single ship; the one break in the monotony being the spouting of whales.

Two more days of terrible rolling amid those wild Atlantic breakers, which, as they washed
our decks, seemed to sway the ship to and fro. Happily the wind was with us during the greater
part of our voyage, and the captain crowded on all sail, making about 10 knots an hour.

On the Thursday following, we sighted Iceland, and our spirits rose in proportion as we felt
our voyage was nearing its completion. The sea, too, became calmer, and as we neared the coast
the view was truly grand. At 10.30 P.M. the sun had not yet set, but was shedding its glorious
evening glow over mountains which rose almost perpendicularly from the sea, and whose snow-clad
peaks caught the rosy hues and golden tints of departing day. It was one of the most beautiful
atmospheric effects I have ever witnessed, doubtless enhanced by the marvellous clearness of
the atmosphere. I knew that Iceland was mountainous in its interior, but I had no idea that
it had such a magnificent coast line, or such towering snow-capped hills. One thing we made
special note of, namely, that while in the day time the thermometer rarely stood above 42°--10
above freezing point--it was very considerably lower at night, whilst instead of the damp cold
we experienced during the day, at night the air was dry and frosty; the wind blowing from the
north-west, and straight over the ice of Greenland, accounted for its being so sharp and keen.

It was well we had provided ourselves with furs and wraps of every possible warmth, for now
indeed we required them all. Happily we only saw field ice in the distance, for had we come
into nearer proximity with it, we should not have been able to pass round the north at all.
No ice actually forms round the coast line, but the sea ice drifts from Greenland, 100 miles
distant, causing the north of the Island to be impassable, except during two or three months
in the year.

The mean temperature of the south of Iceland is 39° F., in the central district 36° F., while
in the north it is rarely above freezing point. During the winter of '80 and '81, when we were
having what we thought great cold in England, the thermometer in Iceland was standing at 25°
below zero, and polar bears were enjoying their gambols on its northern shores, having drifted
thither on the ice from Greenland.

Iceland lies between N. Lat. 63, 23, 30, and 66, 32; and W. Long. 13, 32, 14, and 24, 34, 14;
is 280 miles in length, and 180 to 200 miles in breadth.

Steaming up the east coast of the Island we breakfasted the next morning in the Arctic Circle,
and what a delight it was to be there, the next best thing to being at the North Pole itself,
and far more comfortable! We were also now in calm water, so could give vent to our excitement
without fear of consequences. We had indeed had a terrible time of it since we left Scotland:
even the captain acknowledged that the voyage had been unusually rough.

All that day we continued our course along the north-eastern coast of Iceland, in constant
admiration of the magnificent wild scenery which broke upon our view. Snow capped-mountains
rose almost abruptly from the sea, down which flowed little glacial rivulets, which emptied
themselves into the briny deep below. Another clear lovely evening, in which the quaint rocky
outlines of the hills were discernible, with valleys, torrents, and glorious fjords, the whole
embracing a panorama of miles of grand serrated coast line, showing to the greatest advantage
in the curious evening glow.

So calm and beautiful was the scene, that all our party agreed it was worth a few days' discomfort
in order to revel in the beauty of this bold Icelandic approach. The water was perfectly green,
and as clear as possible, revealing innumerable yellow jelly-fish disporting themselves. We
did not, however, see any of the sharks which are so frequently met with in these waters.

Entering the 'Oe Fjord' on our way to Akureyri, a small town lying some thirty miles from its
mouth, as the evening lights shed their rich varied hues on all around, it was difficult to
believe we could really be, after only a week's absence from home, so far north as the Arctic
Circle, the more so as the rich warm colouring of the landscape resembled rather some southern
clime.

We anchored off Akureyri at about eleven P.M., still in broad daylight, and I could read the
smallest print at that hour without any difficulty, so short is the twilight of an Arctic summer.
Real night there is none. This latter fact is most convenient for travellers, for being benighted
in their explorations is an impossibility. If, however, the Icelanders enjoy this prolonged
daylight during their brief summer, how painful must be the reverse during the long winter,
when they have but a few hours of daylight.

We were told an amusing story of an enterprising merchant from Glasgow, who, wishing to impress
the Icelanders with the advantage of the electric light to cheer their long winter's darkness,
went to Reykjavik in his large steam yacht, sending forth a proclamation inviting the natives
to come and behold this scientific wonder. It was August, and he had not taken into consideration
the fact that during that month there is no night in the Island, consequently his display was
totally ineffectual!

After breakfast, a boat came alongside our steamer to convey us to the town. Off we went in
a high state of pardonable excitement. All past discomfort was forgotten; we were about to
set our feet on that terra incognita to most Europeans, viz., 'Iceland,' whose high mountain
masses, varying in altitude from 3000 to 6800 feet, are, for the greater part of the year,
covered with snow.

But before we land, let me describe the boat; large, of course, or it would never be able to
stand the rough waters of the fjords, which, we were told, were often so turbulent as to render
any communication with ships at sea impossible. Both ends of the boat are made alike, resembling
two bows; our boat had neither rudder nor stern, and required three men to handle each oar,
one facing the other two, and all three pulling simultaneously. Sometimes the men stood up,
their combined strength being thus apparently more effective in pulling through the rough sea
which surrounded the Island. The oars were very thick at the rowlock, tapering off to an almost
straight blade, not more than five inches wide. The men pulled well, and soon landed us amid
the curious gaze of the inhabitants of the town, who had crowded down to the beach as soon
as our steamer came in sight.

The first thing that struck us on landing was the sad, dejected look of the men and women who
surrounded us. There was neither life nor interest depicted on their faces, nothing but stolid
indifference. This apathy is no doubt caused by the hard lives these people live, the intense
cold they have to endure, and the absence of variety in their every-day existence. What a contrast
their faces afforded to the bright colouring and smiling looks one meets with in the sunny South.

The Icelanders enjoy but little sun, and we know ourselves, in its absence, how sombre existence
becomes. Their complexions too, were very sallow, and their deportment struck us as sadly sober.
A few of the women might possibly have been called pretty, notably two of their number, who
possessed clear pale skins, good features, blue eyes, and lovely fair hair, which they wore
braided in two long plaits, turned up, forming two loops crossed on the crown of the head.
These braids were surmounted by a quaint little black silk knitted cap, fitting close to the
skull like an inverted saucer, and secured to the head by silver pins.

Hanging from this cap is a thick black silk tassel, from some six to ten inches long, which
passes at the top through a silver tube, often of very pretty workmanship. I tried on one of
these caps, and came to the conclusion that it was very becoming; thereon my vanity made me
offer to purchase it, but as its owner asked twelve shillings, I declined to buy it, and afterwards
procured one for half the sum in Reykjavik.

The bodices of the women's costumes are pretty, bound round two inches deep with black velvet,
joined at the neck and waist with silver buckles; the bust is left open, showing a white linen
shirt, sometimes ornamented with the finest embroidery; the skirt is short and full, and made
of dark cloth.

The men were of low stature, and broadly built, and wore fur caps and vests, with huge mufflers
round their throats. These latter, we observed, were mostly of a saffron colour, which, combined
with their fur caps, tawny beards, and long locks, gave them a very quaint appearance. Men,
women, and children alike wore skin shoes, made from the skin of the sheep or seal, cut out
and sewn together to the shape of the foot, and pointed at the toe. These shoes are tied to
their feet by a string made of gut, and lined merely with a piece of flannel or serge, a most
extraordinary covering in a country so rocky as Iceland, where at every step sharp stones,
or fragments of lava, are encountered. Mocassins are also sometimes worn. The Icelanders, however,
do not seem to mind any obstacles, but run and leap on or over them in their 'skin skurs' as
though impervious to feeling. Later on we saw a higher class of Icelanders wearing fishermen's
boots, but such luxuries were unknown in the little town where we first landed. The men being
short of stature, in their curious kit much resembled Esquimaux.

The double-thumbed gloves worn were likewise a curiosity to us. These gloves have no fingers,
but are made like a baby's glove, with a thumb at each side; and when rowing or at other hard
work if the man wears out the palm of his glove, he simply reverses it and makes use of the
other thumb. These gloves are generally knitted of grey wool, the thumbs being white, and resemble
at a distance a rabbit's head with long ears. An Icelander always wears gloves, whether rowing,
riding, fishing, washing, or sewing.

In ascertaining the number of days in a month we English people are accustomed to repeat a
rhyme: the Icelander has a different mode of calculation. He closes his fist, calls his first
knuckle January, the depression before the next knuckle February, when he arrives at the end,
beginning again; thus the months that fall upon the knuckles, are those containing thirty-one
days, a somewhat ingenious mode of assisting the memory.

In our short trip to the Island, except on our visits to the geysers, which occupied four days,
we invariably slept and dined on board the Camoens, making use of the time the steamer remained
in each port to lionise the little towns we touched at, and to make such excursions into the
interior as time permitted. In fact, except in the capital, there is not a really good hotel
to be met with, although primitive accommodation may be found in the peasant dwellings and
small hostelries.

CHAPTER IV.

AKUREYRI.

Certainly the most noticeable feature, after a brief survey of the inhabitants of' the place--at
least such of them as surrounded us on landing--was the number of ponies massed together on
the beach,--fine, sturdy, little animals, from eleven to thirteen hands high, stoutly made,
with good hind quarters, thick necks, well-shaped heads, and tremendously bushy manes. Their
feet and fetlocks are particularly good, or they could not stand the journeys. There were black,
white, brown, chesnut, or piebald, but we did not see a single roan amongst them; a very quaint
group they made standing quietly there, laden with every conceivable kind of saddle or pack.
Many of the smaller ones were almost hidden by the size of the sacks, filled with goods, which
were strapped on their backs. The pack ponies are never groomed, and badly fed, while the best
riding ones are well stabled and looked after.

The scene that followed was interesting, for it appeared all these intelligent little animals
were in attendance on their owners, men and women alike, who had come down to the ship in order
to barter the goods they had brought from the interior of the Island for flour, coffee, etc.,
on which they depend for their winter supplies. For hours these patient little ponies stood
there, many of them with foals at their side, which latter, we were told, often get so footsore
in their journeys as to require strapping upon their mothers' backs. The Icelanders are splendid
riders, and are accustomed to the saddle from babyhood, for the roads are very bad, and the
distances too great for walking, and there are no vehicles of any kind in Iceland. Some one
indeed reported that one had been introduced into Reykjavik; we did not see it, but after once
experiencing the nature of the roads, one can understand the absence of any wheeled conveyance.
No ordinary springs could possibly stand the boulders of rock and lava, or the 'frost mounds,'
over which the hardy Icelandic pony is accustomed to make his way. The native women ride man-fashion,
a mode--as I shall later narrate--we ladies were compelled to adopt. For short distances a
chair saddle is frequently used, somewhat resembling the writing-chair of an English study.
The occupant sits sideways, having a board under her feet, in this way securing rest for the
back. The ponies are intelligent and sure-footed, and require little or no guiding; but the
amount of jogging and shaking which the rider is forced to undergo is tremendous--one wonders
they have any senses left. We had been fortunate in securing an introduction to Mr Stephenson,
one of the chief officials of the Island, and also a native of the place, under whose escort
we at once lionised the little town (if such it may be called), the second largest in Iceland.
It consists of a collection of two-storied wooden houses, raised on a platform of lava blocks,
plain and severe in structure, and painted yellow or white. Pretty muslin curtains and flowers
adorn the windows, and as in this northern clime the keeping of flowers is no easy matter,
the cultivation of them strikes one as highly praiseworthy. Inside the houses we found nicely
polished floors, and simply furnished rooms, of a truly German style, stove included. The poorer
abodes were mere hovels made of peat, admitting neither light nor air, and having the roofs
covered with grass. One would have thought them almost uninhabitable, and yet I had seen dwellings
nearly as bad around Killarney, and Glengariff.

What a hard life is that of the poor Icelanders! When our ship arrived, they were on the verge
of starvation, their supplies being all exhausted. Glad indeed they must have been to welcome
the Camoens, and know that flour and other staple articles of food were once again within their
reach. Outside every house we noticed rows of dried fish hung up, and ready for the winter's
consumption. Fish, but especially cod, is the staple food of the Icelander; but among the poorest
class this reserve consists more of fishes' heads, than fish in toto. What would a London epicure
think of being obliged to feed for months together upon the heads of dried cod, which had for
some weeks been exposed to the elements to render them hard and fit for eating. These heads
are the refuse of fish, which are dried and exported to France, Spain, and England, and the
heads not being required in these countries, are used by the Icelanders as food, being boiled
down into a species of cake, which is eaten alike by the natives and their cattle, the liquid
being given to the ponies.

Mr Stephenson told us that a large proportion of ponies thus fed died during the winter for
lack of better nutriment.

A good riding pony in Iceland cost from £4 to £8, and a pack pony less: we hired them at 2s.
6d. a day. The breeding of these ponies is one of the great sources of livelihood, as the export
last year numbered 3476. In the last voyage made by the Camoens, she brought home 975 of these
hardy little animals, which gives some idea of the extent of the trade.

The smell of the fish while drying is terrible, the whole atmosphere being permeated with the
odour. The streets are also paved with old fish heads and fish bones; indeed, at each port
we touched, the smell of fish, fresh or dried, assailed eyes and noses in every direction.
The population of Akureyri is under 1000, and is the residence of the Lieutenant-Governor of
the northern part of the Island. We visited one or two of the streets, hoping to meet with
some curiosities, but pots, pans, kettles, and other domestic utensils of the most ordinary
kind, alone met our view. In the eatable line, coarse brown sugar-candy seemed to abound, which
the purchasers shovelled into bags or sacks, and carried off in quantities. We learnt that
it is used by the Icelanders for sweetening coffee, having the double advantage of being pure
sugar, and a hard substance resisting the damp which the snow engenders.

While in Akureyri we saw some poultry, perhaps half a dozen cocks and hens, but they were the
only ones we met with in the Island; nor did we ever come across a pig! Fancy a land without
these common accessories to a peasant's board! Eggs are only eaten on state occasions, and
are considered a luxury, being imported from France; the eggs of the eider duck are considered
very good food: they are, of course, only procurable round the coast. Crowing once or twice
sarcastically he went melancholy mad, and finally taking a calenture he cackled loudly (possibly
of green fields), and then leapt overboard and drowned himself.'

Akureyri is both famous for, and proud of, its trees. There are actually five of them: these
are almost the only trees in the Island. Miserable specimens indeed they appeared to us southerners,
not being more than 10 feet high at most, and yet they were thought more of by the natives,
than the chesnuts of Bushey Park by a Londoner.

The absence of wood in the Island is to a great extent overcome by the inhabitants collecting
their fuel from the Gulf Stream, which brings drift wood in large quantities from Mexico, Virginia,
the Caroline Islands, and even from the Pacific Ocean.

There is no lack of peat in certain districts, which, as in Ireland, is cut into square blocks,
then stacked on to the ponies' backs till no pony is discernible, and thus conveyed to the
farm, where it is used as fuel.

Indeed many of the houses are built of peat in the interior of the country where wood is not
procurable. The peat for this purpose is cut in big blocks, thoroughly dried in the sun, and
then it is easily cemented together with mud, thus making warm rooms, sheds, or passages to
the farm houses.

Beautiful as much of the scenery was through which we passed, I must own that want of foliage
struck me as a terrible drawback to the perfection of the landscape, which, in other respects,
was very wild and grand.

We dined at Akureyri at the little inn, which boasted of a fair-sized sitting-room, but not
enough chairs to accommodate our party; so three sat in a row on an old-fashioned horsehair
sofa, while we two ladies and our guest, Mr Stephenson, occupied the chairs. Our dinner consisted
of soup, or rather porridge, of tapioca, flavoured with vanilla, a curiosity not known in Paris,
I fancy; then a species of baked pudding, followed by some kind of a joint of mutton--but I
am quite unable to say from what part of the sheep that joint was cut; no vegetables; black
bread, and a kind of tea cake; bottled beer and corn brandy, augmented by coffee.

During our repast, Mr Stephenson gave us much information about the Island. He told us a bank
had lately been opened in the capital, which he hoped would soon be followed by a branch at
Akureyri, a progress of civilisation which must of necessity circulate money more freely, and
make the present system of barter less common--ponies, sheep, fish, etc., being now given in
preference to money in exchange for goods.

Sending or receiving money in Iceland anywhere except in its capital, is a difficult matter,
as there is no organised post office method for such transactions.

The following history and constitution of the bank in Reykjavik, furnished me by Mr Gordon,
may be interesting to my readers.

'There is one bank, the State Bank. Its capital consists of the revenues of the Island; there
are no shareholders. The manager is an Icelander, who has one assistant only, who keeps the
books. Two inspectors or auditors are appointed by the Governor of Iceland. The Bank has just
been started under the control of the Governor and Council of Iceland; and on the 1st July
1886 began an issue of State notes--legal tender in Iceland only. Danish notes are also tender
in Iceland, though the reverse is not the case. The issue is limited to Kr. 500,000, or £27,777.
They are issued against the security of the revenues of the Island, and they are forced on
the people, who do not as yet take to them, and no wonder, considering the great want of communication
even in the summer months. They are convertible for either silver or gold at Reykjavik. Branch
banks will probably be opened at Akureyri, Seydisfjord, and Isafjord. The Bank publishes a
statement of its affairs periodically. The Bank charges 6 per cent., as a rule, on advances,
and grants 3 per cent. on deposits. The Bank advances against land, and houses (the latter
in the capital only, as they cannot be insured elsewhere against fire), and personal security.
The advances are said to stand at Kr. 130,000, or £7222. When against personal security a promissory
note is taken, signed by the borrower and two irresponsible witnesses, or by two responsible
obligants, according to standing. Title-deeds are taken as collateral security. The Bank has
its own forms for loan-documents. The probability is that the Bank will soon become the possessor
of a great deal of property in houses and land in Iceland, as bad seasons are frequent, which
prevent prompt payment.'

ICELANDIC AND ENGLISH MONEY TABLE.

                     £   s.  d.
        7-1/2 öre,   0    0     1
       15      "     0    0     2
       22-1/2  "     0    0     3
       30      "     0    0     4
       37-1/2  "     0    0     5
       45      "     0    0     6
       52-1/2  "     0    0     7
       60      "     0    0     8
       67-1/2  "     0    0     9
       75      "     0    0    10
       82-1/2  "     0    0    11
       90      "     0    1     0
 Kr.   1.80    "     0    2     0
  "    2.70    "     0    3     0
  "    3.60    "     0    4     0
  "    4.50    "     0    5     0
  "    5.40    "     0    6     0
  "    6.30    "     0    7     0
  "    7.20    "     0    8     0
  "    8.10    "     0    9     0
  "    9.00    "     0   10     0
  "    9.90    "     0   11     0
  "   10.80    "     0   12     0
  "   11.70    "     0   13     0
  "   12.60    "     0   14     0
  "   13.50    "     0   15     0
  "   14.40    "     0   16     0
  "   15.30    "     0   17     0
  "   16.20    "     0   18     0
  "   17.10    "     0   19     0
  "   18.00    "     1    0     0
  "   36.00    "     2    0     0
  "   54.00    "     3    0     0
  "   72.00    "     4    0     0
  "   90.00    "     5    0     0
  "  108.00    "     6    0     0
  "  126.00    "     7    0     0
  "  144.00    "     8    0     0
  "  162.00    "     9    0     0
  "  180.00    "    10    0     0

After dinner, we visited the small Lutheran Church. Unfortunately we had no opportunity of
attending a service, though, to judge from the plainness of the ecclesiastical buildings, such
must be very simple. The clergyman wears a black gown, and an enormous white Elizabethan frill,
with a tight-fitting black cap. This little church accommodates about 100 persons, and in place
of pews, has merely wooden forms. Over the altar was an old painting of the crucifixion, done
by a native artist, and surrounded by a little rail. The walls were plainly whitewashed, the
windows bare, and no musical instrument was visible. There was, however, both a font and a pulpit.

The town boasts of a hospital, a free library, and two printing establishments. At night we
returned to our ship quarters.

The next day, there being nothing more to be seen in Akureyri, we decided to take a ride, in
order to visit a waterfall, which Mr Stephenson told us would repay the fatigue, and also give
us some idea of what an Icelandic expedition was like. Truly that first ride is a never-to-be-forgotten
experience. Our road lay over rough stones, and 'frost-mounds.' These latter are a recognised
feature in Icelandic travel; they are small earth hillocks, about 2-1/2 feet wide and 2 feet
high, caused, according to Professor Geikie, by the action of the frost. In some parts these
mounds cover the ground, lying close to each other, so as to leave little or no room for the
ponies to step between, and they have to walk over them, a movement which sways the rider from
side to side, causing many a tumble even to experienced native horsemen. It is like riding
over a country graveyard,

    'Where heaves the turf in many a mouldering heap.'

As to road, there was none, nor is there such a thing in Iceland worthy of the name. The rider
merely turns his pony's head in the direction he wishes to go, and it picks its own way far
better than he could guide it. The bridle used is a curious workmanship of knotted rope or
thick string with a brass curb or bit, ornamented by some queer head or device. The saddles
are equally quaint. Those of the women I have already described; those of the men are made
very high, both in front and behind, somewhat like a Mexican saddle, there being a hollow in
the centre. A crupper is always used, and straps are attached to the back of the saddle, from
which the farmer hangs his sealskin bags, containing an omnium gatherum of his lighter goods.

The ponies are very slightly girthed, nor, indeed, would it do to tighten them, so old and
rotten is the usual paraphernalia for their equipment that an attempt in this direction would
bring the whole thing to grief, which species of contretemps we met with more than once during
our rides. In fact, a small English side-saddle and bridle would be not only a most useful
addition to a lady's luggage, but add much to her safety and comfort.

While at Akureyri, Mr Stephenson kindly lent us two ladies' saddles, or we should never have
accomplished that first ride. They were old-fashioned two-pommeled ones, with gorgeously-embroidered
cushions, on which we were supposed to sit, and marvellous saddle-cloths; and we realised we
were travellers in earnest when once we mounted and started. Icelandic ponies walk well, and
are also trained to pace, a movement closely resembling that of an American runner. This is
a motion which requires experience, as it is too quick to rise without practice, and too rough
to sit still in the saddle. Some of the ponies trotted, others cantered well, but one had to
make them understand one wanted them to do so, as the usual Icelandic mode of riding is that
of 'pacing,' at which the animals continue for hours. Later in our trip, when we visited the
Geysers, we had to ride over 40 miles a day, in order to cover the distance in time to catch
our steamer on its return voyage, and thus became well acquainted with pony riding in all its
various modes of procedure.

It did not take us long to reach the Gléra waterfall, which was very pretty, about a mile from
the fjord, and formed by the river: trout can sometimes be caught in the pool beneath the fosse.

Perhaps the most noticeable feature of Akureyri was the shark oil manufactory between that
little town and Oddeyri, the stench of which was something so fearful that I know of nothing
that could possibly compare with it. In certain winds it can be smelt for miles. The manufacture
of cod liver oil is bad enough, but that of shark oil is even worse. Luckily, the establishments
where such oil is made are not numerous, and are principally confined to such out-of-the-way
regions as Iceland and Greenland.

At Oddeyri there was another store of great importance to the natives, viz., a large meat preserving
place, where great preparations were in active progress for the coming winter.

Not far distant from here lives a very remarkable man, a self-taught artist of considerable
power, who has never been out of the Island, consequently has but rarely seen a picture, and
yet his artistic instincts and power of representation are of no mean order; and more especially
displayed in his altar pieces. I wonder what he would say to those of Rubens or Vandyck! This
man has the greatest love of animals, and was surrounded, when we visited him, by a number
of dogs of the Icelandic breed, small animals closely resembling the Pomeranian, with long
coats and sharp stand-up ears, which always give a knowing look to the canine head. Most of
them seemed to be black, though not a few were a rich sable brown. They are pretty beasts.
I don't believe there is a cat in the Island, leastways we never saw one, wild or tame, during
our sojourn there. The domesticated cat, fowls, and pigs are practically unknown in these climes.

Some 20 miles from Akureyri once lived another interesting man, Sira Jon Thorlackson, a well-known
native poet, many of whose verses are dear to his countrymen; in his lifetime he undertook
and accomplished a translation of Milton's 'Paradise Lost.'

There are some 20,000 specimens of butterflies scattered over the world, and yet in Iceland
these species are unknown, although insects of certain kinds do exist, especially mosquitos,
as we learnt to our cost. Although there are no butterflies, and but few insects, flowers abound.

An Agricultural College has lately been established in the vicinity of Akureyri, the headmaster
having formerly been one of the librarians of the Advocates' Library in Edinburgh. No doubt
the natives will learn to drain their bogs and swamps, level their frost mounds, and produce
more out of the earth than at present, with the help of this much needed institution.

How terribly soon that curse of modern civilisation, drunkenness, spreads! It was Sunday when
we first landed at Akureyri, and I am sorry to say not a few of its inhabitants had imbibed
more corn brandy than was good for them; it seemed to have the effect of making them maudlingly
affectionate, or else anxious to wrestle with everybody.

The two days the Camoens lay off Akureyri gave us no time for prolonged excursions, but was
more than sufficient to lionise the little town, so we were not sorry when the steamer's whistle
summoned us to return to our floating home.

Ten hours' further journey and our anchor was dropped opposite Sauderkrok, an even smaller
town than Akureyri, with its 1000 inhabitants, but which interested us more from its very primitive
population, If the reader will follow the steamer's course in the map, he will find Sauderkrok
marked in its direct course.

CHAPTER V.

HISTORICAL NOTES.

Before proceeding to narrate more of our own experiences of Iceland, I have ventured to collate
the following memoranda of the early history of the Island, from Mr George Lock's, F.R.G.S.,
'Guide to Iceland,' a most valuable appendage to a traveller's luggage in that Island; the
few notes gathered from its pages and other guide-books will enable my readers to follow my
narrative with greater interest; whilst I trust this open acknowledgment of my piracy will
be forgiven.

       *       *       *       *       *

It has been ascertained that before the year 874 Iceland was almost an uninhabited Island,
being occupied only by a few natives, Culdee Monks, who having seceded from the Roman Catholic
faith, retired there for safety and quiet.

Prior to its settlement it was circumnavigated by a Swede, who landed, it is said, and wintered
there, and in 868, Flóki Vilgertharsson, a mighty Viking, visited it, who gave it the present
name of Iceland.

The first permanent settlers were of the Norse race; two men who, banished from their country,
fitted out a ship and sailed to Iceland, where in 874 they made a settlement in the south of
the island.

Later Harold Haarfager, a tyrannical and warlike spirit, who was fast extending his kingdom
over Norway, so offended many of his subjects, among them several powerful chiefs, that the
latter, to avoid further warfare, quitted the land of their birth, and went to settle in Iceland.

This emigration in due time peopled it, until sixty years later its population was calculated
at 50,000, which has now increased to 72,000. Most of the settlers came from Norway, supplemented
by a few from the Orkneys, Scotland, and Ireland. One of the fjords bears the name of 'Patrick's
Fjord,' after an Irish Bishop.

The climate of Iceland at this early date seems to have been a far more moderate one than at
the present time, a fact established by scientific research.

In the early days of the Island, the Norse chiefs who took possession of it appropriated to
themselves large tracts of country, distributing them among their own retainers; these latter
in return swore allegiance to their separate chiefs, undertaking to support them in their private
quarrels, whilst they were themselves in this manner protected from aggression.

Every Norse chieftain of any note established a 'Hof' or Temple in his own lands, whilst the
yearly sacrificial feasts were supported by a tax gathered from the people. Each chief reigned
supreme within his own jurisdiction, and could take life or confiscate property at will. At
given periods these feudal rulers met to discuss affairs of importance, or to promulgate laws
for the better government of the community; but they had no written laws, or any general accepted
body of lawgivers, hence, as may easily be supposed, constant differences of opinion existed,
which per force was settled by an appeal to arms. Such a state of things, where 'might became
right,' could not continue long amid such a warlike nation as the Norsemen, and in 926 the
principal chiefs of the Island took steps to form a Commonwealth, and established a code of
laws for its government. It was for some time a question where this primitive national assembly
should meet, and finally a rocky enclosure, situated in a sunken plain, cut off by deep rifts
from the surrounding country, was selected. This spot, so romantic in position, so safe from
intrusion, so associated with the early government of the Island, was called 'Thingfield,'
or 'speaking place'--Thingvaller it is now termed--and here the first Althing was held in 929;
at the same period 'Logmen' or law-givers were appointed, to whom universal reference on legal
questions was referred.

This 'Althing' combined both the power of a High Parliament and that of a Court of Justice,
and before the introduction of Christianity into the Island, its members were called upon to
swear upon a sacred ring, brought for the purpose from the temple of the High Priest, to administer
both 'with justice and clemency.'

About the time William of Normandy invaded England, Godred Crovan, son of Harold the Black
of Iceland, conquered the Isle of Man, in whose family it remained for some centuries. Probably
through this Norse connection the custom of proclaiming the laws to the people in this latter
Isle from a hill in the open air was first introduced, although now discarded by the Althing
in Iceland and in various Northern Isles. In the Isle of Man the laws are still read to the
people on 5th July on Tynwald Hill; of late years they have only been read in English, but
until 1865 they were also proclaimed in the Manx language (which is nearly related to Gaelic),
many of the natives not speaking or even understanding English.

According to Joseph Train's 'Historical Notes on the Isle of Man,' 'the great annual assembly
of the Islanders at the Tynwald Hill, on the Feast day of St John the Baptist, is thus described
in the Statute Book,--"Our doughtful and gracious Lord, this is the Constitution of old time,
the which we have given in our days: First, you shall come thither in your Royal Array, as
a King ought to do, by the Prerogatives and Royalties of the Land of Mann; and upon the Hill
of Tynwald sitt in a chaire, covered with the royall cloath and cushions, and your visage unto
the east, and your sword before you, holden with the point upwards; your barrons in the third
degree sitting beside you, and your beneficed men and your Deemsters before you sitting; and
your Clarke, Knights, Esquires, and Yeomen, and yeoman about you in the third degree; and the
worthiest man in your Land (these are the twenty-four Keys) to be called in before your Deemsters,
if you will ask any Thing of them, and to hear the Government of your Land and your will; and
the Commons to stand without the circle of the Hill with three Clarkes in their surplisses."'

Even at the present day this ceremony continues in the Isle of Man, as above said. When the
officials arrive at the Tynwald Hill, the Governor and Bishops take their seats, surrounded
by the Council and the Keys, the people being assembled on the outside to listen.

From the establishment of the Althing until the 11th century, the Icelanders seem to have managed
their internal affairs with moderation and discretion; at least little of importance connected
with the Island is recorded until the discovery of Greenland by Eric the Red, which subsequently
led to that of America, towards the end of the 10th century, by Biono Herioljorm, and before
the time of Columbus.

  CHRONOLOGICAL DATES.

  Colonised, 874.

  First Althing sat, 929.

  Christianity introduced, 1000.

  Snorri Sturlusson murdered, 1241, 22d Sept.

  Had a republic and a flourishing literature, till subjected
  to Hakon, King of Norway, 1264.

  Iceland fell under Danish rule, 1380.

  Protestantism (Lutheranism) introduced about 1551.

  Famine through failure of crops, 1753-54.

  Greatest volcanic eruptions, 1783.

  New Constitution signed by the King Christian of Denmark on
  his visit to Iceland when the 1000th anniversary of the
  colonisation of Iceland was celebrated, 1874, 1 Aug.

  Eruption of 1783 destroyed 10,000 men.
      "           "          28,000 ponies.
      "           "          11,500 cows.
      "           "          200,000 sheep.

  Latest great eruption 1875.

The following curious custom is copied from Dr Kneeland's book:--

'In their pagan age, it was the custom for the father to determine, as soon as a child was
born, whether it should be exposed to death or brought up; and this not because the rearing
of a deformed or weak child would deteriorate a race which prided itself on strength and courage,
but from the inability of the parents, from poverty, to bring up their offspring. The newly
born child was laid on the ground, and there remained untouched until its fate was decided
by the father or nearest male relative; if it was to live, it was taken up and carried to the
father, who, by placing it in his arms, or covering it with his cloak, made himself publicly
responsible for its maintenance. It was then sprinkled with water, and named. This was regarded
in pagan times as sacred as the rite of baptism by Christians, and after its performance it
was murder to expose it.... The usual mode of desertion was either to place the infant in a
covered grave, and there leave it to die, or to expose it in some lonely spot, where wild animals
would not be likely to find it. After the introduction of Christianity, such exposure was permitted
only in cases of extreme deformity.'

In 997, the first Christian missionary, Thangbrand, landed in Iceland, and preached Christianity
to its inhabitants by fire and sword; but the severity with which he tried to enforce his views,
failed to convince the people to give up Paganism. Two years later, however, Iceland threw
off the heathen yoke, and embraced the Roman Catholic religion. Early in the 11th century,
several Icelanders visited Europe to study in its various universities, whilst churches and
schools were established in the Island, taught by native bishops and teachers, and with such
marvellous rapidity did education spread among the people, that it reached its culminating
point in the 13th century, when the literary productions of the Icelanders became renowned
through Europe during what was termed the Dark Ages.

Towards the end of the 12th century the peace of Iceland was broken up by internal struggles
for power, which resulted in the loss of its independence. So wide-spread, in fact, had become
these internal feuds, that at last some of the chiefs, refusing to submit to have their differences
settled by the laws of the country, visited Norway, and solicited the help of its king, Hakon
the Old.

Now this king had long been ambitious to annex Iceland to his dominions, and in lieu of settling
the disputes brought before him, by an amicable arrangement between the Icelandic chiefs, he
only fomented their quarrels, and finally persuaded a number of them to place Iceland under
his sceptre. This they agreed to do, and, after much bloodshed, in 1264 Iceland was annexed
to Norway, and its far-famed little republic became extinct.

The history of the Island since that date has been a mournful one. Until thirty years since,
the conquest of their Island by Norway, left in its train nothing but apathy and discontent
among its inhabitants; in fact, the poor Icelanders, when once they realised their loss of
independence, seemed to have neither spirit nor power to rise above the state of suicidal slavery
into which they had fallen through their political differences.

In 1848, however, an heroic band of patriots combined, and fought bravely to rescue their country
from the degrading condition into which it had fallen; but its long subjection to a foreign
yoke has left, it is feared, a lasting impression on the character of its inhabitants, and
this, combined with their great poverty, has engendered a sadness and soberness of spirit which
they seem unable to overcome.

In 1830, Norway was united to Denmark, and Iceland was transferred to the Danish crown. In
1851 the Icelanders threw off the Roman Catholic supremacy, and embraced the Lutheran form
of worship.

In 1800 their time-honoured institution, viz., 'The Althing,' was done away with, and for the
subsequent forty-three years Danish rule prevailed. In 1843, however, the former state of government
was re-established, but only in a very limited form, the power granted to it being but a shadow
of its former self, whilst its sittings were removed from the rocky fortress where it had so
long held sway, to the capital, Reykjavik, a large stone building having been erected for its
deliberations.

In 1848, when Denmark proclaimed its Constitution, the Icelanders in a body petitioned that
the full power of the Althing should be restored. For many years this petition was presented
in vain, until King Christian visited the Island, signed a new and separate Constitution for
Iceland in January 1873, at the same time retaining certain prerogatives.

In size Iceland is somewhat larger than Ireland, its area being calculated at 38,000 square
miles. Geographically it lies south of the south of the Arctic Circle, about 650 miles north-west
of Duncansby Head. Its eastern, northern, and north-western coasts are deeply indented with
a number of narrow fjords, whilst the southern coast, on the contrary, has not a bay or fjord
capable of affording a harbour to even a small vessel.

A group of islands, called Westmannaggar, or Irishmen's Isles, lie off the south coast, and
in the various bays on its western coast are innumerable smaller islets.

The interior of the Island is mostly a broad barren plateau, from which rise ice-clad mountains
and sleeping volcanoes. Its inhabited regions lie along the coast, where there are small tracts
which repay cultivation. The area of the lava deserts, viz., tracts of country covered with
lava which has flowed down from volcanic mountains, is computed at 2400 square miles, whilst
there are 5000 square miles of vast stony uncultivated wastes--nearly one seventh of the entire
area--which apparently increase in extent.

The Island consists of 'Toklar,' or glaciers, and coned heights known as 'Vatna Toklar,' 'Läng
Tökull,' 'Dranga,' and 'Glamu Toklar,' and a group of mountains called 'Töklar Guny' in the
south of the Island.

The area of pasture land all over Iceland is estimated at 15,000 English miles, but a large
part of this is moorland, whilst, sad to say, the pasture land is visibly diminishing, and
the sandy wastes increasing. This, to a certain extent, is due to the want of industry of the
natives.

In 1875 no less than 1000 square miles was buried beneath an eruption of pumice, but it is
considered that the action of the frost and rain upon this porous substance will eventually
fertilise the soil and permit of its cultivation. Iceland is the most volcanic region of the earth.

The Island has four large lakes and innumerable small rivers, none of which are navigable beyond
a short distance from the mouth. It is not possible to enter here at large on the volcanic
features of the Island, but a short chapter has been appended at the end of the volume touching
on the principal volcanoes, their action and eruptions.

CHAPTER VI.

SAUDERKROK--RIDING.

At a short distance from shore, Sauderkrok, appeared to us at first a most forlorn-looking
little settlement, consisting of some few dozen wooden houses and peat hovels. However, on
a closer acquaintance with the place, during the two days the steamer remained in port to enable
our captain to unload some 200 tons of cargo, we found plenty of things to interest us in the
little town.

There being no warehouses, or even sheds, to store the newly arrived goods, they were piled
on the beach, and there sold by auction. It was a most amusing scene, the whole population
turning out to witness, or take part in, the bidding for the goods thus sold.

The goods were piled up in a half circle, the auctioneer sitting on a table in the middle,
assisted by one or two of the chief town's folk. Outside the circle stood men, women, and children
from all surrounding parts of the Island; beyond them again, the patient little ponies waiting
for the loads they were to carry off inland. Much of the sale was carried on by barter, a system
of trading not wholly comprehensible to us strangers, although we saw the natives offer specimens
of what they had to exchange. As onlookers, such a novel exhibition afforded a fine field for
the study of Icelandic physiognomy, the expressions of anxiety, pleasure, or disappointment
being depicted on their faces when the coveted goods were knocked down to the would-be purchaser,
or not. To these poor people this must have been a meeting of the greatest importance, as their
winter comforts mostly depended thereon; but such is their habitual apathy, that even this
great event caused little outward excitement.

No sooner were the goods purchased, than the ship's crew sorted them out, and with the help
of an interpreter they were handed over to their owners, some of whom within a few hours were
starting off on their homeward journey; a considerable part of the goods, however, still remained
on the shore when we left two days later, the purchasers having arranged to return for future
loads.

In 1883 the imports amounted to £337,000, from bread, groceries, wines, beer, spirits, tobacco,
and stuffs. Trade has been open to all nations since 1854.

THE EXPORTS OF ICELAND IN 1887.

 Salted cod         cwt.    112,201  value £138,506
 Other salted fish   "       57,226    "     46,810
 Salted herring     barrels  27,096    "     20,000
   "    salmon      cwt.        218    "        763
 Cod oil            barrels   1,215    "      2,738
 Shark oil             "      7,508    "     22,524
 Seal oil              "        121    "        336
 Whale oil             "        230    "        460
 Ponies             numbers   3,476    "     10,428
 Sheep                 "     10,000    "     10,000
 Wool               cwt.     12,134    "     47,561
 Salted mutton       "        9,336    "     11,968
 Eider down         lbs.      7,149    "      5,415

besides woollen stockings and gloves, skins, feathers, tallow, dried fish, sounds, and roes.

Sauderkrok was to witness a new experiment in our mounting arrangements. On our arrival, as
usual we intended riding into the interior, and applied at the only inn in the place for ponies,
when to our discomfiture we learnt no such thing as a lady's side-saddle was to be obtained.
The innkeeper and our party held a long consultation as to what was to be done, during which
the inhabitants of the place gathered round us in full force, apparently much interested in
our proceedings.

At last one of the lookers-on disappeared, and presently returned in triumph with a chair-saddle,
such as already described, used by the native women. This was assigned to Miss T. No second
one, however, was obtainable, and I had to choose between remaining behind or overcoming the
difficulties of riding lady fashion on a man's saddle. My determination was quickly taken,
and much to the amusement of our party, up I mounted, the whole village stolidly watching the
proceeding, whilst the absence of pommel contributed considerably to the difficulty I had in
keeping my seat.

Off we started, headed by our guide, and as long as the pony walked I felt very comfortable
in my new position, so much so that I ventured to try a trot, when round went the saddle and
off I slipped. Vaughan came to my rescue, and after readjusting the saddle, and tightening
the girths, I remounted, but only with the same result. How was I to get along at this rate?

I had often read that it was the custom for women in South America, and in Albania, who have
to accomplish long distances on horseback, to ride man fashion. Indeed, women rode so in England,
until side-saddles were introduced by Anne of Bohemia, wife of Richard II., and many continued
to ride across the saddle until even a later date. In Iceland I had seen women ride as men,
and felt more convinced than ever that this mode was safer and less fatiguing. Although I had
ridden all my life, the roughness of the Icelandic roads and ponies made ladywise on a man's
saddle impossible, and the sharpness of the pony's back, riding with no saddle equally so.
There was no alternative: I must either turn back, or mount as a man. Necessity gives courage
in emergencies. I determined therefore to throw aside conventionality, and do in 'Iceland as
the Icelanders do.' Keeping my brother at my side, and bidding the rest ride forward, I made
him shorten the stirrups, and hold the saddle, and after sundry attempts succeeded in landing
myself man fashion on the animal's back. The position felt very odd at first, and I was also
somewhat uncomfortable at my attitude, but on Vaughan's assuring me there was no cause for
my uneasiness, and arranging my dress so that it fell in folds on either side, I decided to
give the experiment a fair trial, and in a very short time got quite accustomed to the position,
and trotted along merrily. Cantering was at first a little more difficult, but I persevered,
and in a couple of hours was quite at home in my new position, and could trot, pace, or canter
alike, without any fear of an upset. The amusement of our party when I overtook them, and boldly
trotted past, was intense; but I felt so comfortable in my altered seat that their derisive
and chaffing remarks failed to disturb me. Perhaps my boldness may rather surprise my readers;
but after full experience, under most unfavourable circumstances, I venture to put on paper
the result of my experiment.

Riding man-fashion is less tiring than on a side-saddle, and I soon found it far more agreeable,
especially when traversing rough ground. My success soon inspired Miss T. to summon up courage
and follow my lead. She had been nearly shaken to pieces in her chair pannier, besides having
only obtained a one-sided view of the country through which she rode; and we both returned
from a 25 mile ride without feeling tired, whilst from that day till we left the Island, we
adopted no other mode of travelling. I am quite sure had we allowed conventional scruples to
interfere, we should never have accomplished in four days the 160 miles' ride to the Geysers,
which was our ultimate achievement.

I may here mention our riding costume. We had procured very simply made thick blue serge dresses
before leaving home, anticipating rough travelling. The skirts being full and loose, hung well
down on either side when riding, like a habit on the off and near sides, and we flattered ourselves
that, on the whole, we looked both picturesque and practical. Our very long waterproof boots
(reaching above the knee) proved a great comfort when fording rivers, which in an Iceland ride
are crossed every few miles, sometimes oftener. For the rest, we wore ordinary riding attire.

The crooked position of a side-saddle--for one must sit crooked to look straight--is very fatiguing
to a weak back, and many women to whom the exercise would be of the greatest benefit, cannot
stand the strain; so this healthy mode of exercise is debarred them, because Society says they
must not ride like men. Society is a hard task-master. Nothing is easier than to stick on a
side-saddle, of course, and nothing more difficult than to ride gracefully.

For comfort and safety, I say ride like a man. If you have not courage to do this, in visiting
Iceland take your own side-saddle and bridle (for a pony), as, except in Reykjavik, horse furniture
is of the most miserable description, and the constant breakages cause many delays, while there
are actually no side-saddles, except in the capital, and a chair is an instrument of torture
only to be recommended to your worst enemy.

On one occasion, while the rest of the party were settling and arranging about ponies, which
always occupied some time, I sat down to sketch on a barrel of dried fish, and was at once
surrounded by men, women, and children, who stood still and stared, beckoning to all their
passing friends to join them, till quite a crowd collected.

They seemed to think me a most extraordinary being. The bolder ones of the party ventured near
and touched me, feeling my clothes, discussed the material, and calmly lifted my dress to examine
my high riding-boots, a great curiosity to them, as they nearly all wear the peculiar skin
shoes already described. The odour of fish not only from the barrel on which I was seated,
but also from my admiring crowd, was somewhat appalling as they stood around, nodding and chatting
to one another.

Their interest in my sketch was so great I cannot believe they had ever seen such a thing before,
and I much regretted my inability to speak their language, so as to answer the many questions
I was asked about it all. I fancied they were satisfied, however, for before going away, they
one and all shook hands with me, till my hand quite ached from so many friendly grasps.

The men in Iceland always kiss one another when they meet, as also do the women, but I only
once saw a man kiss a woman!

'Snuffing' is a great institution. The snuff is kept in a long box, like a gourd, often a walrus
tooth, with a long brass mouth. This they put right up the nostril, turning the head to do
so--a very dirty and uncouth habit, but one constantly indulged in by both sexes. They also
smoke a great deal. On one occasion Vaughan gave a guide some tobacco. He took it, filled his
pipe, and put it back in his pocket, shaking his head as much as to say he could not light
his pipe in the wind. This dilemma was overcome by Vaughan offering a fusee. The man took it,
looked at it, and grinned. So Vaughan showed him how to use it, and struck a light. His astonishment
and amusement were so overwhelming that he got off his pony, and rolled about on the ground
with delight. He had evidently never seen such a curiosity before.

We rode to Reykir, 10 or 12 miles from Sauderkrok, where there are hot springs. The road was
very bad, and it took us nearly three hours to accomplish the distance, but this may be partly
accounted for by our stopping every half-hour to mend some one's broken harness. My only girth,
a dilapidated old thing, was mended with string, and when trotting along soon after starting,
the saddle and I both rolled off together, the only fall I have ever had in my life, and from
a little Icelandic pony too! I was thoroughly disgusted at the accident, and my want of balance.
However, I soon had occasion to comfort myself on my easy fall, when our guide and pony turned
three complete somersaults down a hill, the man disappearing. But he soon rolled out from beneath
the animal, shook himself, and mounted once again. How every bone in his body was not broken
I can't imagine, so rough and strewn with lava boulders, was the ground on which he fell.

Shortly after our party had left Sauderkrok, a young Icelander was noticed riding after us,
and when my fall occurred, he advanced towards us politely, and offered me the use of his pony
and saddle, which I gratefully accepted, and he mounted mine, riding without any girths, and
gracefully balancing himself in a most marvellous manner. This new addition to our party proved
a very valuable one, as he talked English perfectly, and was most intelligent and communicative.
He told us he was on his way to Copenhagen to study languages, preparatory to trying for a
professorship at Reykjavik, and we found he had already mastered English, French, Latin, and
Danish. His name never transpired, but we learnt that as soon as the news reached him that
an English party had landed and started for 'Reykir,' he had saddled a pony and ridden after
us, wanting to see what we were like, and also to endeavour to make our acquaintance, and thus
be able to air his English with English people, for until then he had never spoken it except
with his teacher. My fall gave him the opportunity he wanted, as he was then able to offer
his services without intrusion, which he did with the politest manners.

The Icelanders are a wonderfully well-educated people. Our new friend told us he did not believe
there was a man or woman in the Island who could not read and write, and certainly on our visits
to the various farm-houses, we never failed to notice a Lutheran Bible, and many of the old
'Sagas,' by native poets, beside translations of such works as Shakespear, Göethe, John Stuart
Mill's 'Political Economy,' and other well-known writings.

Icelandic is the oldest of the present German dialects, being purer than the Norwegian of to-day,
and its literature dates from 1057, immediately after the introduction of writing.

The literature has been ascertained to be of so deeply interesting a character, that the fact
of establishing an 'Icelandic Chair' in one of our Universities is now, I believe, under consideration.
Many of the natives speak, and understand, Danish--indeed the laws are read to them in that
language; and between Danish and Icelandic, we ladies succeeded in making our German understood.
Icelandic is now given with English and Anglo-Saxon as optional subjects for the examination
at Cambridge for the Modern Language Tripos.

Appended are a few Icelandic sentences, which we found useful in our travels. They are spelt
phonetically, as we learnt a few phrases from such of the guides as could speak a little English.

G. C. Locke, in his most interesting work 'The Home of the Eddas,' in speaking of Icelandic
literature, says, 'Might not some of the hours so fruitlessly spent in misinterpreting incomprehensible
Horace be more fitly devoted to the classics of Northern Europe?... Snovri Sturluson the author
of the "Elder Edda," has no compeer in Europe.'

 Can you lend us any ponies?   Getithir launath okir hesta?

 Can you give us five ponies?  Getithir launath okir fim
                                 hesta?

 No; I cannot lend you so      Neg; jeg getiki launath
   many.                         īkur (īdhur when speaking
                                 to one person) sō mārga.

 I can give you two.           Jeg gyet launath tvōa.

 How many?                     Kwādh mārga?

 Thank you; please bring       Thākur fir (or tāk) Kurisō vel
   them.                         ath Kwawma meth.

 How long will you be          Kwā lengi verthidh fīr (thīeth,
   away?                         when speaking to more
                                 than one) bŭrtū?

 We shall come back after      Vīeth  Kwawmim āftur
   riding six hours.            eftarath hāver rēdhith
                                īsechstūna.

 Where is Reykir?              Kwāreru R[ēikir?

 You are not going the right   Thīer fārith eki rēhtir lēdh.
   way.

 You must go back a little     Thīer verdhith afara til paka
   way.                          taulitith.

Our young Icelandic student was very proud of the native Sagas, and justly so. They are works
highly esteemed, and of interest to the scholar, embodying the history of the Island, tales
of its former chiefs, their laws, their feuds, their adoption of Christianity, the sittings
of the Althing, great volcanic eruptions, handed down by word of mouth from generation to generation,
until the pastors and learned men committed them to manuscript. They are also full of the most
romantic adventures, stirring incidents, and courageous assaults, dear to the heart of every
Icelander, and treasured by them as a record of their country's history and its people's hardihood.

CHAPTER VII.

REYKIR.

On arriving at Reykir, our guide conducted us to his own dwelling, a fair-sized farm, where
he and his wife resided with all their mutual relations, this being the custom in Iceland.
In this case they included the wife, her father, mother, grandfather, and sister on the one
side; the husband, his two brothers, sister, and mother on the other. Quite a happy little
community, as the couple themselves were also blessed with several children.

On entering we were shown into the guest chamber, a small, neatly-furnished apartment, panelled
with wood, and containing two windows, neither of which were made to open--a peculiarity not
only to be found in Iceland but in some other places, especially in Tyrol. A wooden bedstead
stood in one corner, covered with an elaborate patch-work quilt, whilst a table and two chairs
constituted the remainder of the furniture. As our party numbered five, some pack boxes were
added--not very soft seats after a long jolting ride. A looking-glass hung on the wall; but
what a glass! It was quite impossible to recognise your own face in it; I can only liken its
reflection to what one would see in a kitchen spoon--not a silver spoon--for there the features,
though distorted, would be visible, here they were not. Certainly if such mirrors are the only
medium of reflection the people of Reyker possess, they will not grow vain of their personal
attractions. The room also contained a barometer and an accordion. In most of the houses we
entered we found the latter instrument, which the people, being fond of music, amuse themselves
with during the long winter evenings. Curiously enough, there is little or no native music,
however. A bookcase on the wall contained quite a small library of Icelandic literature.

Tired with our long ride, we were very glad to rest awhile, while our student friend, our guide,
and all the combined families in the house down to the babies and the dogs, stood around us,
until the room was so full I don't think another soul could have found entrance.

The Icelanders are on first acquaintance with strangers somewhat reserved; but if treated affably
this reserve soon wears off, and their hospitality is unbounded. Even among the poorest a night's
lodging is never refused to a traveller.

In outlying districts the farmhouses take the place of inns, whilst the charges are on a most
moderate scale.

We brought with us some cheese and biscuits, and a pound of Buzzard's chocolate, which the
farmer's wife supplemented with coffee and 'skyr,' the latter served in soup plates.

Skyr is the national dish, taking the place of porridge to a Scotchman, and is nothing less
than curded sheep's milk, like German 'dicke-milch,' eaten with sugar, to which cream is added
as a luxury. As it was rather sour, we fought shy of it at first, fearing future consequences,
but this was unnecessary. It is really excellent, and the natives eat it in large quantities.
Huge barrels of this skyr are made during the time the sheep are in full milk, and stored away
for winter's use. It is agreeable to the taste, satisfying, and wholesome.

While eating our lunch, our host and his numerous family circle--who all seemed much interested
at our presence--did nothing but ply us with continual questions about England, the English
people, and the cost of the various articles we either wore or carried with us.

We invited our host and one or two of his friends to taste our cheese and chocolate, when after
every mouthful they each shook hands with all the gentlemen of our party; whilst those of the
women who shared our repast, after shaking hands with the gentlemen, kissed Miss T. and myself
most affectionately.

Class distinction is unknown in Iceland; in fact, there are no gentry, in our acceptation of
the term, and little or no wealth among the inhabitants.

I believe the Bishop is the richest man in the Island, and his income is about £150 a year,
a sum which these simple-minded folk look upon as riches.

Our coffee and skyr, with attendance for seven people, cost 1s. 7-1/2d., a sum reasonable enough
to meet any traveller's purse.

At the ports, however, in Iceland as elsewhere, we found we had to keep our wits about us to
avoid being cheated, the English being credited as made of money.

Near to this farmhouse, at Reykir, there were some hot springs which we visited, and we stood
and watched with much interest the water bubbling up to the surface.

Close to one of these springs we noticed a large open tub in which the family washing was being
done in the natural hot water thus supplied; but the water was yellow, and gave off a sulphureous
odour--although it did not seem to discolour the clothes.

The ground around the house was, as usual, piled up with dried fish. It is difficult to realise
the stench caused by this food supply, unless one has experienced it. Cod liver oil is made
in large quantities in Iceland, and exported to England, where it is then refined for use.
If a lover of cod liver oil--and I believe such eccentric persons exist--could once be placed
within 500 yards of its manufacture, I feel sure they would never taste it again.

Our guide was one of the largest farmers in Iceland, and owned the adjoining island, namely,
'Lonely Island,' or 'Drangey,' famous as the retreat of the outlawed hero of the 'Gretter-Saga.'
The legend states that one Christmas night the chief's fire went out, and having no means of
rekindling it, he swam from Drangey Island to the Reykir farm to get a light, a distance which
to us, humanly speaking, seems impossible for any man to have done.

The tale goes on to say that an old witch went out in a boat to visit Gretter on Drangey. The
boat upset and she was drowned; but a large rock like a boat in full sail rose from the sea
a few yards from the Island itself.

The 'Saga' contains many wonderful tales in connection with this locality, specially relative
to the high table-land which rises almost perpendicularly above the sea. The scenery in this
part of the Island is very fine. On the west side of the 'Skagaffiryr,' a fair-sized river,
are seen the peaks of the 'Tindastoll,' a very steep range of mountains intersected with water-worn
gorges; while opposite, 'Malmey,' or 'Sandstone Isle,' juts into the sea, north of a rude peninsula
with a low isthmus that appears almost like an island.

In the middle of this fjord Drangey is situated. This island, which was the property of our
guide, is a huge mass of rock, nearly perpendicular, while at one end is the witch's rock resembling
the ship in full sail. Drangey is the home of innumerable eider-ducks, who swim at will in
and about the surrounding waters. The drake is a very handsome bird, a large portion of his
plumage being white; the hen is smaller, and brown in colour. In disposition the birds are
very shy and retiring. The hen builds her nest with down plucked from her own breast; this
nest the farmer immediately takes possession of; the poor bird makes a second in like manner,
which is likewise confiscated; the third nest he leaves untouched, for by this time the bird's
breast is almost bare. Eider-down is very valuable, fetching from 12s. to 20s. per pound. When
the farmer desires to catch the eider-duck, he places on the shore, at low water, a small board,
carefully set with a series of snares on its surface, and as the birds walk over it they are
made prisoners by their feet. There must have been many thousands of eider-duck between Reykir
and Drangey, and no gun is allowed to be fired for miles around.

Owing to the uneven nature of the ground, caused by constant earth mounds, even where the soil
is good the plough is used with great difficulty. In fact, it can only be utilised by removing
the sod and levelling the earth with a spade, until smooth enough for a pony to drag the plough
over it. There are very few ploughs, or indeed any farming implements of any size in Iceland,
the farmers being too poor to buy them, nor are the latter at all an enterprising class, contenting
themselves with the primitive method of cultivating the soil which their forefathers used to
adopt. Our guide being a man of more energy than his brethren, and wealthier, had invested
in a plough, of which he was very proud, and exhibited to us as a great novelty, evidently
thinking we had never seen such a wonderful thing.

Hay was being cut all the time we were in the Island, cut under every possible disadvantage,
and yet cut with marvellous persistency. With this labour, of course, the frost mounds interfere,
being most disastrous to the scythe, and yet the natives never leave a single blade of grass,
cutting round and round, and between these curious little hillocks. On the hay crop so very
much depends, for when that fails, ponies die, sheep and cattle have to be killed and the meat
preserved, and the farmer is nearly ruined. Hay is therefore looked upon as a treasure to its
possessor, and is most carefully stored for the cattle's winter provender; but as during the
greater part of the year the Icelanders are snowed up, the cultivation of hay or cereals is
a difficult matter.

In many parts of Iceland there exist enormous stretches of country covered with dangerous bog,
which are, of course, at present undrained. Now, however, that an Agricultural College has
been established in the Island, it is hoped a fresh impetus will be given to farming operations
in general. At present there are only about 220 acres under cereal cultivation, whilst its
inhabitants number over 70,000! Although there are no trees, as before said, there is no scarcity
of flowers, indeed the flora is particularly rich, in some instances being composed of specimens
not found elsewhere. Often for miles the ground is thickly carpeted with the most beautiful
mountain and Arctic flowers, sometimes nestling even in the snow, which lies in patches quite
near to the towns. Iceland moss is found on the lava plains.

Mr Gordon was a botanist, and brought home a large collection of specimens; many more, on which
he had set great store, were unfortunately lost from the pony's back. The following is a list
of those he secured, a great number of which we found growing among huge boulders in high barren
places.

LIST OF PLANTS BROUGHT FROM ICELAND.

  1. Plantago maritima.
  2. Raniunculus acris.
  3. Euphrasia officinalis.
  4. Alchemilla vulgaris.
  5.   Do. alpina.
  6. Erigeron alpinus.
  7. Rumex acetosa.
  8.   Do. acetocella.
  9. Myosotis sylvatica. (?)
 10. Cardamine pratensis.
 11. Comarum palustris.
 12. Trifolium repens.
 13. Saxifraga oppositifolia.
 14. Empetrum nigrum.
 15. Cerastium alpinum.
 16. Cynoglossum officinale. (?)
 17. Penguicula vulgaris.
 18. Poa alpina.
 19. Capsella bursa pastoris.
 20. Galium saxatile.
 21. Stellaria aquatica.
 22. Eriocaulon vaginatum.
 23. Dryas octopetale.
 24. Salix herbacea.
 25.   Do. lapponica.
 26.   Do. aurita.
 27. Polygonum viviperum.
 28. Thalictrum alpinum.
 29. Leontodon taraxacum.
 30. Samolus valerandi.
 31. Equisetum pratense.
 32. Stellaria cerastoides.
 33. Viola tricolor.
 34.   Do. palustris.
 35. Cerastium trigynum.
 36. Potentilla reptans.
 37. Arabis. (sp.?)
 38. Betula nana.
 39. Parnassia palustris.
 40. Cerastium vulgatum.
 41. Silene acaulis.
 42. Vaccinium uliginosum.
 43.   Do. vitis idea.
 44. Thymus serpyllifolia.
 45. Gentiana campestris.
 46. Potentilla anserina.
 47. Aparagia hispidus.
 48. Rhinanthus crista galli.
 49. Galium vulgaris.
 50. Galium parisiense.
 51. Geranium pratense.

 Names furnished by C. A. Gordon, M.D. C.B.

 Birch   2 species. } included in above.
 Willow  3    "     }

Mushrooms grow abundantly in Iceland, and we much enjoyed them, eaten with salt, as a supplement
to our meals.

After some hours' rest at Reykir, we remounted, and rode back to Sauderkrok, parting with much
regret from our student friend, who had proved a most agreeable and intelligent addition to
our party.

That night we were none of us sorry to exchange our saddles for our berths in the Camoens,
having been on horseback the greater part of the day, on a road the roughness of which is indescribable.

A further steam of twelve hours up the Hruta Fjord brought us to Bordeyri, a still smaller
place than Sauderkrok. Here our captain informed us he should have to wait thirty-six hours
for the discharge of further cargo. This fjord is very dangerous, for it has never been surveyed,
consequently deep-sea leads were frequently used, the sailors meanwhile chanting a very pretty
refrain. When we anchored opposite Bordeyri, we all noticed the anxious look which the captain's
face had lately worn had left him, and how pleased he seemed to have brought his steamer safely
to her moorings.

We landed in a boat which came alongside the Camoens, and commenced at once to take a survey
of the place. A few dozen houses or so, with a large store, where every necessary of life was
supposed to be procurable (at least an Icelander's necessities), constituted the town. We entered
the store in search of some native curiosities to carry home. A brisk trade was being carried
on in sugar candy, large sacks of which were purchased by the farmers, who had come to meet
the steamer and barter their goods for winter supplies. Never was any shopping done under greater
difficulties than our own, and we almost despaired of making ourselves understood. The store-man,
however, grinned most good-naturedly when we failed to do so, and we at last unearthed some
finely-carved drinking-horns, and a couple of powder flasks, which we thought would help to
decorate a London hall.

While at Bordeyri, we felt we were the subject of much amusement and admiration among the little
crowd of natives who flocked to see us, forming also, I doubt not, a topic of conversation
among them for many a day to come.

Our survey of the town was soon made, so we ordered ponies for a ride up country, this being
the best way of passing our time. On the way we saw a number of large ravens; splendid birds
they were and wonderfully tame; the ground was quite covered in places by flocks of them.

Iceland boasts of a great variety of birds; in fact, they form an attraction to many English
sportsmen to visit the Island. Both my brother and A. L. T. were sportsmen, but our time was
too limited to admit of the exercise of this taste. Among the birds may be noted swan, geese,
duck, curlew, mallard, snipe, plover, ptarmigan,--90 species of birds, in fact, 54 of which
are wildfowl. During our ride, A. L. T. shot a fine raven, and on our return to the ship, my
brother skinned and stuffed it, as a memento of his inland trip. Many of the passengers were
so interested in his performance, that he was called on to deliver a lecture on skinning and
stuffing birds, and he explained how skilfully this could be accomplished, with the help of
a penknife alone. On another occasion, A. L. T. caught a baby curlew as yet unable to fly,
but the cries of the parents as they whirled round and round us seeking their offspring, were
so heart-rending, that in sheer pity he placed the little thing back on the ground, where it
was instantly joined by the old birds, who uttered cries of delight, which we continued hearing
until we were well out of sight.

There are great attractions for sportsmen in Iceland--reindeer shooting on the western side
of the Island, whale and seal shooting, and salmon and trout fishing, the latter being met
with in all the rivers. Indeed some of the finest salmon fishing in the world is to be found
here, and several Englishmen rent rivers, where they enjoy this sport every summer; the life
being free and independent, the expenses small, and the sport excellent, naturally form many
attractions. At the same time, so much netting and trapping of the fish goes on, there is every
probability the salmon will be exterminated before long.

Our ride out of Bordeyri was very interesting. There are some hot springs on the east of the
fjord, which are reached by boat, but which we had not time to visit. Had we remained longer,
we should much have liked to see the 'Anglica fish-lakes,' but these were a full day's journey
from Bordeyri, and quite out of our route. They are, we were told, abundantly stocked with
char, trout, and other good fish, and afford an excellent halting-place for sporting travellers.

A part of our way lay along a peat-track, over which we raced our ponies, varying our exploits
later amid bogs, which required the most careful riding to avoid a catastrophe. As usual, there
were many rivers to be forded, through which our ponies plodded up to their middles, never
flinching even at the coldest glacial water. Often during our rides, towards evening the cold
became intense, although for a few hours about mid-day the sun was very hot.

After some hours' riding, we arrived at another typical farm, which I sketched from my pony's
back. The farm-house, and a small hamlet of wooden huts which lay around it, formed a good
foreground to the distant fjord. Dismounting, we entered the house by a low door, knocking
our heads against the rafters as we traversed a long dark passage which led to the guest-chamber.
This room, as usual, was neatly panelled with wood, and contained a bed, chairs, etc., but,
from the absence of fresh air, was fearfully close. Our ride had sharpened our appetite, and
we at once produced our lunch supply, consisting of cheese and biscuits, etc. We offered some
of the biscuits to the farmer, who at first turned them round and round in his hand suspiciously,
then seeing that we ate them with enjoyment, he raised one solemnly to his lips, tasted it,
and then speedily devoured his share of the meal. In a short time all the various members of
the family joined us, and, sans cérémonie, proceeded to examine our belongings. Pipes, match-boxes,
watches, furs, and jewellery were all passed in review, and we were asked the price of each
article, and whether we had brought them out from England. Our table knives seemed to cause
them the greatest astonishment, and as the Sheffield steel glanced in the sun, they were quite
childlike in their delight; certainly our English cutlery was a great contrast to the jagged
iron knives which served them at table. In our turn, we admired their quaint old silver ornaments,
but when we testified a desire to purchase, we failed to meet with any response.

We did not, as first proposed, remain the night at this farm, its accommodation not being sufficiently
enticing, so our hostess was saved fulfilling the curious Icelandic custom considered a compliment
to strangers, of putting all her guests to bed herself, whether man or woman, and not leaving
the room until they were safely tucked up. We cannot say, however, we encountered this form
of hospitality ourselves, but we were told it was constantly carried out.

As we sat round the table at our meal in this faraway region, so distant from all the trammels
of Society, we wondered what expressions the faces of our London friends would have worn could
they have seen our party passing the only spoon available from one person to the other, occasionally
even eating with our fingers. Certainly our surroundings were much at variance with a well-appointed
luncheon table, and yet we enjoyed ourselves all the more from its primitive simplicity. Lunch
over, we prepared to continue our journey, but found our ponies had wandered much further off
than usual, and our guide went to seek them.

The Icelander and his pony have initiated signs, which serves them in lieu of language. For
instance, when the rider dismounts, and simply leaves the reins over the animal's head, the
latter knows that he will be wanted again soon, and must not wander far off; if, on the other
hand, the bridle is left loose, the pony knows he may roam at will in search of food until
his master seeks him.

We rode back to Bordeyri, which we reached in the evening, and again slept on board the Camoens.
During our absence up country the previous day we heard that the ship's company had been in
a great state of excitement, consequent on the embarkation of some forty emigrants from Bordeyri
and its surrounding neighbourhood. We saw these our fellow-passengers the next day, men, women,
and children, many of the former quite old, apparently not more than one in five appeared capable
of a good day's work. These emigrants were bound for Manitoba and Winnipeg, in each of which
places there is an Icelandic colony, and which settlements they could reach at a cost of £6,
10s. per head. Poor things! we wondered if they had taken into serious consideration the difficulties
that lay in their path in the New World they were seeking. Probably, considering the land they
were leaving was one of volcanoes and desert wastes, they hoped for better things. Their Icelandic
life must indeed be hard and colourless, so hard as to have taken from them all pleasure in
existence. To judge by their apathy, these questions did not seem to have been taken much into
account by them; possibly when the sight of green fields, and Nature's abundance, break upon
their view, dormant will, and energy may rise to fresh surroundings, and inspire them with
an impetus to work.

Ah! speculate as we would upon their future, and probably we did so more than they did themselves,
all we could do for them was to wish them God-speed and good luck in their venture.

A bright 12th of August dawned at sea as we left the Hruta Fjord, and steamed again towards
the Arctic Circle and Cape North. When we met at breakfast the conversation naturally turned
upon grouse, and 12th of August sport in general, and the gentlemen wished themselves in Scotland,
and exchanged their last year's experiences there. I remembered mine also, for I was staying
in a country house in Lanarkshire, and some dozen men ready equipped for sport stood staring
out of the windows of the breakfast-room, grumbling lustily at the pouring rain, and finally
having to abandon their shooting expedition for the day, and content themselves with dancing
Scotch reels, and otherwise amusing 'we girls,'--sorry consolation for the 12th of August!

The day wore on, and we had the unusual treat of a calm sea, but as the wind blew straight
across from the ice regions, it was fearfully cold, pack-ice being seen in the distance, whilst
an hour or so later we were enveloped in a thick fog.

The captain looked uneasy, as he had discerned ice ahead, and during his last voyage this fog
had betokened its dangerous proximity. To turn back now and go round the Island to Reykjavik
would be a serious loss of time. We slackened speed, the fog-horn was blown, and several times
the sailors took deep-sea soundings.

At dinner-time the captain handed me a parcel containing a tiny shell and a piece of coal black
lava, drawn up from 66 fathoms of water S.-E. North Cape, and 27 miles from the same. Though
only 10 miles from land, the fog so entirely hid the coast that we missed one of the prettiest
views of Iceland.

The next day, however, was lovely, and under a cloudless blue sky the coast-line showed to
the greatest advantage. The sunset that night was one of the finest I have ever seen. Snaefell
Jökull, with its snow summit, stood out against the most perfect sky, the colours deepening
from yellow to orange, and vermilion to carmine, and constantly changing, like a kaleidoscope.

At 11.30 P.M. the sun had not set, but was illuminating the heavens with the most gorgeous
colouring, reminding one of the distant warmer regions of the south, although at the same time
the thermometer stood far below freezing point as we steamed within the Arctic Circle.

CHAPTER VIII.

REYKJAVIK.

Reykjavik is the capital of Iceland. It has a population of about 4000, and is pleasantly situated
on the shores of a small bay to the north of a headland, which forms an excellent harbour.
Several islands lie so close to the shore that they can be reached on foot at low water. We
had anchored here at night, and when we left our berths in the morning, the town looked quite
imposing as compared with the smaller ones we had already seen.

We were somewhat disappointed to hear from the captain that he could not remain a minute longer
than four days at Reykjavik, possibly only three and a half, during which time, in order to
pay our visit to the Geysers (the chief attraction in our trip), we should be obliged to ride
160 miles over very rough ground; and even calculating our riding powers at 40 miles a day,
no time would be left for contingencies, or a visit to Hecla, which had been an object of our
ambition.

It was, however, a question of being contented to see what we could in that time, or remaining
in Iceland for the next steamer, a disaster we did not look forward to at all, as we had heard
of travellers who had been left for weeks at Reykjavik, from failing to present themselves
on board at the appointed time. Vaughan and Mr Gordon were up early, and went ashore before
breakfast, carrying an introduction to 'Herr Zoega,' the chief guide and pony owner in the
capital; and they engaged for our excursion to the Geysers twenty good ponies and two guides,
one of whom could speak English, at the same time bringing back on board four pack boxes to
fill with eatables and such necessary clothing as we required for the trip. These boxes we
packed as tightly as possible, so as to prevent the things rattling about on the ponies' backs.
They were about 18 inches long, 12 deep, and some 8 inches wide, consequently the necessary
luggage for five of us quite filled two of them, notwithstanding that we took as little as
possible.

Our provender consisted of potted meats, half a ham, biscuits, beer, and whisky, and with dinner
utensils, such as enamelled metal plates, tumblers, knives, forks, etc., from our luncheon
basket, quite filled the boxes. To carry one's own food on such an excursion is absolutely
necessary, unless you can live on coffee and skyr.

When calculating the number of ponies to be hired, you must allow two per head, whether for
riders or for luggage, as from the rough nature of the ground the animals soon tire, and frequent
changes are necessary.

A tent had also to be sought for and hired, and while this was being found, and our ponies
laden, and rugs and mackintoshes strapped on to our riding steeds, we were told by our guide
that at least two hours must elapse before they would be ready for us to start, so we decided
to see what we could of the town meanwhile.

The principal buildings--none of which were of any architectural beauty--were the Cathedral,
the Senate House, the Hospital, and the College.

I must not forget to mention the Gaol, the only one in the Island. It is unlike any other I
ever heard of, as it very rarely has an inmate! Honesty amongst the people themselves is wonderful,
and murder is almost unknown.

Near the Cathedral, on a grassy space in the centre of the town, stood a monument to Albert
Thorwaldsen, the sculptor, who was of Icelandic descent, although, I believe, claimed by Denmark,
as one of her gifted sons. Reykjavik also boasts a small Antiquarian Museum, which, strange
to say, is to be found in the Senate House, and for the size of the town (4000 inhabitants)
there is a good Free Library, in a loft under the roof of the Cathedral.

We were pointed out a really interesting sight in the Cathedral-a rude wooden crucifix, which
had been discovered in a lava cave, and is believed to be a Chaldean relic. There was also
a collection of 13th century ecclesiastical garments and enamelled crucifixes. In the adjoining
Museum we saw a number of weapons of war dating from the 4th century, as well as rare old drinking-cups
of walrus ivory, beautifully carved, and some old-fashioned tapestry. Some of the old silver
ornaments were really quaint, and the carving on the flat-irons much interested me, as I had
never seen so many or such fine ones before.

In the library is the first Bible printed in Iceland, at Holar, in 1584; also a very curious
work on 'Magic;' two old versions of the New Testament, dated 1540; whilst its shelves boasted
quite a large collection of modern works on all subjects.

There are two small inns in the town, as well as a club house, post office, and stores, besides
a druggist, a photographer, and two or three silversmiths. As to vehicles, there were none,
and the silence of the streets reminded one of Venice.

Tradition says that the town was founded in 877, by one 'Tugolfi,' a Norse settler. The early
Icelandic settlers are reputed to have had a curious mode of determining the spot on which
they should build their homes. On approaching the coast, the head of a family threw overboard
the pillars on which the seat of honour in his former home had been raised, and wherever these
pillars floated ashore, there he believed the gods of his ancestors wished him to erect his
new dwelling-place.

Tugolfi's high seat pillars had drifted into 'Reykjavik Bay,' consequently he there took up
his abode, and thus laid the foundation of the only prosperous town in Iceland.

Our time was too limited to visit many stores in Reykjavik in search of curios, but being possessed
with the idea that some good old silver articles were to be obtained here, we tried our best
to find them. But the idea turned out to be an illusion, for after inquiring at three of the
shops, the only things we succeeded in finding were two silver buckles, for which, after much
bargaining, we paid 39s. each; certainly not cheap, but they served us as mementoes of Reykjavik.

We had brought ashore a parcel of letters, which we carried to the post office for despatch,
but learnt that they would go no sooner than ourselves in the Camoens. As there was a great
possibility of our not returning from our trip to the Geysers in time to catch the steamer,
we left our letters, in order that folks at home might receive some news of us if we failed
to reappear at the appointed time, and suggested therein we might be detained. In such a case,
we should have been obliged to wait for a Danish boat, which would touch at the capital in
about a fortnight's time.

While we were gleaning this information, Vaughan had been asked by a Scotchman (the husband
of our ship's companion in the brown silk) to go and see his son. He and the boy had ridden
from Akureyri to Reykjavik, while we steamed round the Island. The poor boy, while resting
his pony near the mud springs, had run off to see them nearer, when suddenly the earth gave
way, and one leg was in boiling mud to the knee, and the other immersed above the ankle. Luckily
his father was near, and extricated him; but for that, and the fact of his wearing high riding
boots, he might have been burnt to death, or lamed for life--as it was, the boiling mud had
burnt the boots through before they could be pulled off, and the knee above had been severely
hurt. Nothing could be done but ride on, and the brave little chap managed to stick on his
pony, although in awful pain, until he reached home a day and a half later.

My brother suggested all he could think of to alleviate his suffering, and, when we returned
from the Geysers, had the pleasure of finding his little patient very much better, though likely
to remain a cripple for a considerable length of time.

At a bookseller's in Reykjavik, we procured an Icelandic translation of an English book by
one of our standard authors, selecting it from a number of well-known works, such as Shakespear,
Scott, Byron, Dean Stanley, John Stuart Mill, George Eliot, etc., all of which stood in long
rows, translated into the Norse tongue. We also carried off a neat little Icelandic newspaper,
printed in the capital; but, unfortunately, not one of our party could decipher its contents.

This little newspaper had been printed after our arrival in the Camoens, and furnished the
only news the Icelanders had of the outside world since the advent of a Danish ship a fortnight
previously. Iceland has not yet been annexed by cable, and knows nothing of the marvellous
scientific invention which now flashes news so quickly round our world.

The hour was now approaching when our caravan was to make its start for the Geysers, so we
returned to the town. Here the landlord's daughter, at our request, exhibited herself in her
fête attire, in which she made a quaint and pretty picture. The dress consisted of a thickly-pleated
black silk skirt, very full and somewhat short, embroidered round the bottom with a deep band
of gold thread; a black bodice, also similarly embroidered with gold down the front and round
the collar; a handsome necklet and girdle of silver gilt, and a high head-dress of white muslin,
in appearance resembling a Normandy cap. This, she told us, she always wore on Sundays and
great occasions, dressing like an Englishwoman on week days.

We found our ponies all in readiness at the appointed hour, and our excitement may be imagined
when we caught sight of our cavalcade, with its appendages, drawn up in order before the so-called
hotel, for our former excursions were as nothing compared to the undertaking which now lay
before us, and we realised that all our energy would be required for the enterprise.

Behold our party, then. Two ladies and three gentlemen; two guides, one being employed as pony-driver;
seven ponies for riding, and seven for changing on the road; three pack ponies, two laden with
our luggage, and one with tents; and three unladen ponies for exchange weights: twenty in all,
a goodly company of quadrupeds, well selected and sure-footed. The ponies, too, besides being
picked ones for the work, were well 'trapped,' and newly shod, with the saddles, girths, straps,
and buckles all in order. So at least 'Zoega' told us, with an assurance that we might depend
on his forethought, adding that if we ladies could really accomplish the 160 miles' ride in
three and a half days, his ponies should not be found lacking, but he had never yet known any
lady do it under five, and he did not think we knew what rough riding lay before us. Miss T----
and myself, not daunted by the difficulties presented, made up our minds, if possible, to compass
the ride, see the 'Geysers,' and be back at Reykjavik in time to catch the steamer, for we
had no mind to be left in Iceland another fortnight; so we laughingly told Zoega we would show
him what English ladies could do in the way of riding, and he might expect to see us back on
the appointed day.

Up we all mounted, to the amusement of the crowd, which had collected round the cavalcade.
The words, 'Are you ready?' were quickly answered by 'Yes;' but when one of the bye-standers
saw we ladies were furnished only with men's saddles, there was quite a commotion. 'The ladies
will never be able to ride all that way in that fashion; only native women can ride so, not
real ladies,' and so terrible did they make out the prospect of the road, that we were persuaded
to take two wretchedly uncomfortable side-saddles with us as far as Thingvalla, which we never
used, far preferring our own arrangement.

That start from Reykjavik was a memorable one. It was a glorious morning, the outcome of a
splendid sunset the previous night, and the air so genial and warm that for the first time
since we set foot on the Island we dispensed with our furs.

A picturesque party we made as we rode on our way towards Thingvalla, a stretch of seven hours'
hard riding, one of the guides and Vaughan driving before them the thirteen loose ponies. These
were not attached to each other, but followed the leader, and went very well, only now and
then one or two strayed from the path, when down jumped the guide, ran after them, and with
a curious shriek brought them back in line. Our guides were most dexterous riders, and proved
also most kind and attentive. Their names were Signithur Sigurthsen and Jon Eriksen. We had
been cautioned that if treated with hauteur the guides often became sullen, whilst kindness
ensured their devotion and courtesy, and as we never tried the former tone, we were capital
friends with them.

The guide-books had led us to believe that after we had left Reykjavik a mile or so we should
find no roads whatever. This is strictly true, as there are no made roads, but here and there
we came across long stretches of level land and peat, where we could get really a good gallop,
whilst on the other hand there were many parts of our route where no beast could go faster
than a walk, and others which only a mule or an Icelandic pony could compass.

A road or bridle path is being constructed between Akureyri and Reykjavik, and some 20 miles
is already roughly made, although it will probably take years to complete.

Herr Zoega had certainly been as good as his word, and supplied us with excellent ponies, some
of which excelled in trotting, some in cantering, and others in pacing, but the latter motion
was very trying, and I always objected to mounting those which had been trained to pace.

The Icelandic fashion of making the pony go fast is to kick its side incessantly with the legs,
which a native does for hours together, and so accustomed is the pony to this 'clapping,' that
he slackens his pace as soon as it ceases.

The scenery along our route was in many parts very fine and wild in the extreme, huge boulders
of lava and rock intersecting our path, and standing like massive ruins on either side, the
lava having evidently cooled down in an almost liquid state, and presenting a most uncanny
appearance.

Professor Geikie, speaking of the Icelandic volcanoes, says,--

'On several occasions the ashes have fallen so thickly between the Orkneys and Shetlands that
vessels passing there have had the unwonted deposit shovelled off their decks in the mornings.
Traces of the same deposit have been observed in Norway, and even as far as Holland.' ...

The most stupendous outpouring of lava on record was that which took place from the Skaptar-Jökull.

'Preceded by violent earthquakes all along the southern coast, it burst out with great fury,
drying up the river in twenty-four hours, and filling its bed. The lava in some places was
600 feet deep and 200 wide, flowing like a mighty river towards the sea, wrapping whole districts
in flames, re-melting old lavas, opening subterranean caverns, one of its streams reaching
the ocean. It was in full activity for two and a half months, and did not entirely cease for
six months.

'It took the lava more than two years to cool. One stream was 50 miles long, 12 to 15 broad
on the plain, and from 1 to 600 feet deep; another was 40 miles long, and 7 wide. Pasture lands
100 miles around were destroyed by the pumice sand and ashes. The matter ejected has been estimated
as twice the volume of Mount Hecla, or one hundred thousand millions cubic yards, probably
as large as any single mass of the older igneous rocks known to exist--according to Bischoff,
greater than the bulk of Mount Blanc.

'Man, his cattle, houses, churches and grass lands were burnt up, noxious vapours filled the
air, and the earth was shrouded by clouds of ashes.' ...

A few instances of the actual outbreak of a submarine eruption have been witnessed. In the
early summer of 1783 a volcanic eruption took place about 30 miles from Cape Reykjanaes, on
the west coast. An island was thrown up from which fire and smoke continued to issue, but in
less than a year the waves had washed the loose pumice away, leaving a submerged reef from
5 to 30 fathoms below sea level. About a month later followed the frightful outbreak of Skaptar-Jökull,
a distance of nearly 200 miles from this submarine vent.

The bluest of skies was above our heads, and the atmosphere so clear we could see objects many
miles distant, among them 'Hecla,' whose snowy cap glistened like silver in the sun.

The air was so pure and invigorating, that it acted like champagne on all our party, and we
were in the highest spirits. About every two hours we halted and gave our ponies a brief rest,
letting them nibble the short grass near, when any such was to be found, then changing our
saddles to the backs of the reserve animals we started afresh, the wild mountain paths becoming
steeper and rougher as we advanced.

We had only passed two farms on our way, and our guide informing us there was not another for
many miles, feeling very hungry after our long morning's ride, we dismounted by the side of
a babbling brook for lunch, and did full justice to the ham and tinned beef we had brought
from London with us. While eating our meal, our twenty ponies were allowed to wander at will
with the reins thrown over their heads, and had there been any passers-by we might have been
taken for a gipsy encampment.

Luncheon over, everything had to be washed, and securely packed, but despite all our previous
care we found some of our china had been sorely smashed, and the biscuits shaken to perfect powder.

Our guides shared our repast, respectfully taking their seats at a little distance from us,
and their delight at tasting our tinned beef and mustard entertained us greatly. The latter
stung poor Jon's mouth till the tears ran down his cheeks, but, nothing daunted, he persevered
in taking the condiment, till he grew so fond of it as to ask for it with every kind of food,
even spreading it on an Albert biscuit.

Hitherto our path had wound over a range of hills amid which we saw several small lakes, and
the view looking westward towards 'Snaefell Jökull,' which rises like a pyramid of ice from
the sea, was charming. Our lunch had been taken in the valley of the 'Seljadalr,' and now once
more in our saddles, we followed a bridle-path upwards towards the plateau of 'Mosfellshei,'
passing through a wild rocky glen of great natural beauty. The 'Mosfellshei' is a long, stony,
dreary waste, several miles in length, so wild and rough as to render riding no easy task,
the path leading through dreary tracks of lava, over which the ponies stepped with cat-like
agility, hardly if ever stumbling, and going up and down hill as easily as on level ground.
After two hours or more of this rough riding, suddenly, at a bend of the hill, we came upon
our first view of Thingvalla Lake, and were charmed with it and the surrounding country. It
was like going out of a desert into fairyland. The lake, which is 45 miles long, and of a deep
cobalt blue, can be seen only in part, as the hills around project to such an extent as to
apparently divide the water into a series of lakes, instead of one broad expanse. It was a
glorious day with a bright warm sun, and a clear blue sky, and everything around looked fair
and peaceful. We were so delighted with the spot, that we stopped to make sketches, allowing
the pack ponies to get ahead of us.

Not long after remounting and calmly jogging on our way, we suddenly came upon the verge of
a tremendous chasm, which, opening at our feet, divided the barren ground on which we stood,
from a lovely sunlit plain of many miles in extent. Winding our way down, we entered the Almannagya
by a narrow fissure. The path leads for nearly a mile, the rocks rising as perpendicular walls
on either side from 80 to 100 feet; so narrow was it in some places that there was little more
than room for the path. In other places where it widened, patches of snow still remained.

Here was indeed a halting-place full of interest, and we accordingly dismounted, and prepared
to spend some time in lionising a spot so replete with historic records.

Running parallel were two or three such chasms, of minor magnitude, over the less steep parts
of which we managed to scramble, before remounting our ponies, which it was necessary to do,
although Thingvalla Farm lay but a few yards distant, because of the intervening river, which
we had to ford.

CHAPTER IX.

THINGVALLA.

Independently of the beauty and natural curiosities of the spot, Thingvalla is so associated
with the early history of the Norse people, its government and its laws, that it deserves a
longer notice here than has been given to any other of our halting-places.

We had descended into the 'Almannagja' by a steep rocky causeway made between cloven rocks,
and reached the narrow islet where, in times gone by, when feudal despotism was the only government
acknowledged, the chiefs of the Island met to regulate the affairs of state. Whenever it might
have been that the volcanic eruption which had shivered the rocks into their present fissured
condition had occurred, it had left this spot so surrounded by deep crevices as to render it
impregnable, save by the rude causeway which connected it with the exterior level. This plain
was, as already recorded, chosen by the founders of the first Icelandic parliament for their
sittings. At the upper end of the plain, we were shown the stone seats which the principal
legislators and judges occupied during their deliberations. Not far from here lies also the
'Logberg,' or 'law rock,' a large mound from whence the laws were proclaimed or judgments given
to the people who assembled on the outside slope of the eastern wall of the rift, in view of
the proceedings below. Our notice was likewise directed to the 'blood stone,' on which, for
certain offences, the criminals were condemned to have their backs broken, after which barbarous
punishment they were hurled backwards, and fell into the chasm below. In the organisation of
the first 'Althing,' priestly power predominated, no less than thirty-nine priests having seats.
During the early settlement of Iceland, the land was divided into four quarters, each quarter
sending its quota of priests to parliament, while each priest thus nominated a member of the
Althing, was accompanied by two retainers, or assessors, as they were termed. Inclusive of
the President, the Log-men, and its numerous sacerdotal representatives, the members of the
Althing are said to have numbered 145 persons.

As we stood by these time-honoured rocks, where in long ages past ancient Norse chieftains
had promulgated their laws, we tried to conjure up the scene,--the rocky entrance to this weird
spot, guarded by stalwart Norsemen, the stern senators and law-makers sitting in deep thought,
or occupied in stormy debate, while the crowd of interested spectators looked down from the
stony platform above. We wondered that although these grand old times of feudalism had passed
away, no enterprising artist had been found to transfer to canvas an historic record of such
deep interest, and thus make the scene live again in modern times.

It was in the year 1000, on the 4th of June, that Iceland abandoned Paganism, and accepted
Christianity. This great change was principally brought about through the instrumentality of
a Pagan priest named Snorri, who, while travelling in Christian lands, had been converted,
and on his return had pressed his new convictions on the people of Iceland. Many of these accepting
his tenets caused quite a division in the Island, and the Althing was summoned to take into
consideration the new views which had been introduced.

Snorri was invited to address the assembly, and explain the principles of his new-found faith.
The members of the Althing listened with great attention, evidently much impressed with what
they heard, for Snorri spoke with the enthusiastic zeal of a fresh convert.

There were not wanting, however, those among the representatives who resented the introduction
into the Island of this new belief, hence the debate, so records the 'Njol-Saga,' waxed warm,
when a messenger rushed in and disturbed the council by the alarming news that a stream of
lava had burst out at Olfas, and that the priest's dwelling would soon be overrun. On this
one of the heathen opponents to Christianity remarked, 'No wonder the gods exhibit their wrath,
when such speeches as we have just heard against their power have been permitted.' On this
Snorri with great dignity rose up, saying, as he pointed to the riven rocks and deep fissures
around them, 'At what then were the gods wroth when this lava was molten and overran the whole
district upon which we now stand?' To this speech there was no reply, for all well knew that
the plain was one of the most remarkable lava tracks in the Island.

It is presumed that Snorri's remark told, and his persuasive eloquence won the day, for shortly
after, the Icelanders in a body accepted Christianity as their national faith, and this apparently
without either bloodshed or quarrelling.

In the 'Saga' mention is made of many remarkable sittings and debates which took place within
the Althing, some of which ended in such animosity between individual members as to be the
cause of party feuds and bloodshed.

In connection with the deep rifts which encompass the Althing, a romantic story is told. A
Norseman called Flossi, a leader of some conspiracy in the Island, was condemned to death;
he evaded this sentence by taking a leap from the blood stone, on which he stood, across the
adjoining rift, a feat neither his accusers nor condemners were likely to imitate, and one
inspired only by his extreme peril.

In 1800 the Althing was abolished, Iceland having fallen under Danish government; it was re-established
again in 1843, but only in a very restricted form, its legislation being cramped in every way
by Danish supremacy. In 1845 the romantic precinct where the Icelanders held their parliament
was abandoned, and the legislative body was removed to the capital of Reykjavik.

In the 'National Encyclopædia,' we found the following note in reference to the new constitution
granted to the Icelanders,--

'In 1874, on the occasion of the millennial jubilee of the Island's colonisation, the King
of Denmark visited Iceland, and conferred upon his subjects there a new and very liberal constitution,
most of its articles being moulded upon the Danish charter of 1849. It conceded to Iceland,
in all matters concerning the Island, its own independent legislation and administration, superintended
by an assembly, the new Althing consisting of thirty-six members--thirty elected by popular
suffrage, and six nominated by the King. It put at the head of the country's affairs a minister
named by the King, and residing in Copenhagen, but responsible to the Althing, and exercising
his functions through a local governor residing at Reykjavik. It also fully guaranteed the
independence of the tribunals, individual freedom, liberty of faith, of the press, of public
meetings, the individuality of property, the self-government of principalities, and the equality
of all citizens before the law.'

As will clearly be seen, this is a case of Home Rule, though the Icelanders are still in a
measure under the Danish Government; apparently much the same kind of legislature as Mr Gladstone
is so anxious to confer upon Ireland. The present Althing or Parliament has two Houses--an
Upper and Lower House; there are twelve members in the former, and twenty-four in the latter.
They must all be Icelanders, and usually they sit for about six years. We peeped into the Parliament
House during the short time we were in Reykjavik; it was then sitting, but much as I should
like to have remained and listened to the proceedings, the odours in the gallery in which we
were placed forbade it. The impression it made upon me was that it resembled a small English
law-court, the governor sitting in uniform at the head of the Council.

Certainly the ancient mode of transacting affairs of state was a far more interesting one,
and the precincts of its primitive Parliament House and law-courts were unrivalled in their
rocky architecture and romantic scenery.

Not far from the Almannagya is a very picturesque fall, formed by the waters of the 'Oxara,'
which leap in a single bound from an elevation west of the 'Thingfields,' or 'speaking-place'
into the 'Almannagya,' flowing through a gap in the rocks, and again leaping into the plain
below, forming a large pool.

In this pool it is said in olden times women convicted of witchcraft or infanticide used to
be drowned.

Altogether the halt we made at the Thingfields interested us deeply, and the landscape was
charming in the extreme. High mountains guard three sides of the plain; among these we had
pointed out to us the 'Sular Range,' the dark peaks of the 'Armammsfell,' and the lower ridge
of the 'Jornkliff,' below, on the north-east of the snow-capped 'Skjaldbreid,' and the peaks
of 'Tindjjalla-jökull' with the more distant 'Langjökull' sparkling like silver. South-west
of the lake there is another group of mountains seen, from one of which--Hengill--a cloud of
steam ascends, it being evidently volcanic. Among the rocks of the 'Almannagya' we saw some
pretty mountain sheep grazing, the only sign of life in this wild region. The Icelandic sheep
are very small, and we noticed often wander in pairs, one black and one white: they mostly
have horns; the wool of the white sheep is spotless. There are plenty of sheep in the Island,
and it is for them as much as the ponies that the grass is cut, dried, and stacked under such
woeful disadvantages and in such a marvellously painstaking manner.

Leaving the rift, and crossing over a small river, we arrived at the door of Thingvalla Parsonage.
Here it was arranged we were to pass the night. The farms and inns are so few and far between
in Iceland, that the parsonages are thrown open for the accommodation of travellers. Formerly
the wooden benches of the Thingvalla Church itself used to be converted into sleeping-berths;
travellers, however, behaved so indecorously within the sacred walls, that the Bishop forbade
the further use of the edifice for this purpose. The church, a simple wooden building, is surrounded
by a graveyard, a few iron crosses marking some of the graves. The pulpit dates from 1683,
and there is an ancient altar-piece of the Last Supper. The so-called village of Thingvalla
consists merely of the church, the parsonage, and a few outhouses for storing winter supplies.
When we arrived at the parsonage, we learnt that the clergyman was absent,--further, that a
party of travellers from our ship had arrived a few hours before us, and had engaged rooms,
the only remaining accommodation being two very small bedrooms, and one sitting-room. To Miss
T. and myself was assigned the clergyman's own bedroom. This contained the smallest bed I have
ever seen, and having to be made available for two persons, we did not pass a very comfortable
night. The only luxury in the room was a well-stored bookcase containing many standard works
in various languages. Our three gentlemen occupied the remaining bed and sitting-room.

We ascertained that the party who had preceded us consisted of seven men, who having only one
bedroom and a small sitting-room, had most of them to sleep on the floor rolled up in their
rugs. These men it appeared were not accustomed to the saddle, and having ridden forty miles
on the day they arrived at the parsonage, found themselves so stiff on the morrow as to be
barely able to continue their journey; indeed, two of their party gave in, and never reached
the 'Geysers' at all.

Among the ancient curios of the Thingvalla Parsonage was an old grinding-machine, such as one
reads of in the Bible; at this a girl sat turning its stone wheel with her hand, whilst the
corn thus converted into flour fell into a receptacle below. In all the domestic arrangements
Icelanders are very primitive, but this operation was, I think, about the most so of any I
witnessed. A large jar containing rice attracted my attention, and curiously enough the rice
was not to eat but to make poultices of, instead of linseed. We found the commissariat at the
parsonage at a very low ebb; in fact, nothing but coffee and skyr were procurable; and but
for our provision of tinned meats we should have fared badly.

We could not even procure white bread, simply the black 'pumpernickel' bread so much prized
in Germany. Vaughan persuaded a man to go to the lake and secure us some fish for the next
morning's breakfast; this he did, and returned with some excellent pink trout, and yellow char,
which we much enjoyed.

No one at Thingvalla Parsonage could speak English, and we had great difficulty in making ourselves
understood; our guides, however, waited upon us as servants, and were very handy. After breakfast,
we remounted and set out on our way to the Geysers, where we hoped to strike our camp that
night. Our guide-books had led us to expect that the scenery of this ride would surpass all
we had yet seen, and we certainly found it did so. Within an hour's ride of Thingvalla we reached
the Hrafragja, another lava plain, though not so wide or long as the Almannagya, but which
is crossed by an improvised road formed of blocks of lava. Our path led us past an extinct
crater, which, from the curious form and emissions, had long puzzled geologists: it was called
a Tintron.

This lava spout resembled the trunk of an old tree, and during an eruption the liquid flame
soared through it high into the air, like water does from a hose or fire-engine. This curious
volcanic spout is not the only one in the Island; further north there are several, some reaching
as much as 30 feet in height. One curious thing in our 80 miles' journey to the Geysers was
the number of rivers we crossed, seldom very deep, but some sufficiently so to necessitate
lifting our feet from the stirrups, and laying them on the pony's back as high as possible
to avoid a wetting.

One of the rivers had so many turns that we crossed and recrossed it about twenty times. The
low-lying land around being all bog, it was necessary to keep our ponies to the comparatively
firm shingle on the river side.

An abrupt ascent, long and steep, formed a pleasant change to the monotony of the rugged plain.
Up this 'berg' our ponies wound their way zigzag between the rough boulders of rock which strewed
the path. At the top we met several men with their train of ponies, waiting for us to pass
them, the path being only wide enough for single file. Here we waited to give the ponies breath,
and admired the view, which was wonderfully extensive. The road up looked like a ladder, so
steep was it, and we wondered how the ponies could have climbed it at all.

The Icelanders are a very polite race; nearly every man you meet takes off his cap and salutes
you. When meeting friends, they pull off their right hand glove and shake hands heartily. In
Iceland, as elsewhere on the Continent, they also pass on the left side; indeed, I believe
we English are the only nation who pass on the near side or right hand.

We halted for luncheon at a small cave, just such a place as one might expect to find Runic
remains, but there were none, so we contented ourselves with eating chocolate, and letting
the ponies enjoy a little grass. This cave, like many others in the Island, was used in winter
as a sheep pen, the poor brutes being huddled together to prevent their being frozen to death
during the long winter nights.

From here we galloped merrily on for some distance; at last we called each other's attention
to an extraordinary yellow haze, like a band of London fog, across the horizon. Thicker and
thicker it became: and as it rolled towards us, we realised we had encountered a regular dust-storm.
Into it we rode: so thick in fact did it become, that by the time we reached the Geysers all
around was hidden in yellow sand, and our eyes were filled with dust, until the tears streamed
down and we were nearly blinded. It whirled round and round in its storm fury, until we were
half-choked, two of our party getting very bad sore throats, produced by the irritation of
the dust, as it filled eyes, nose, and mouth. It powdered our hair also to a yellow grey, but
our faces, what a sight they were! The tears had run down, making little streams amid the dust,
and certainly we were hardly recognisable to one another. These dust-storms are somewhat uncommon,
but proceed, in certain winds, from a large sand desert.

We pulled up at some hot springs within a few feet of the lake, which were smoking and steaming
to the height of several feet, and falling down again formed numerous boiling pools. In these
we put our fingers, but pulled them out quickly. Next we inserted the handles of our riding-whips:
the brass bands round them turning mauve and violet from the sulphur and alum in the water;
but this pretty effect soon wore off. The colour of the water and deposit round the edges of
this pool were very pretty, and the bubbles as they ascended took the most lovely colours--emerald,
purple, etc., turning into aqua-marine before breaking on the surface; but the odour was like
terribly bad eggs. These hot springs are a curious freak of Nature, boiling and bubbling up
within three feet of a cold water lake; in fact, we sat down and placed one hand in cold water
and the other in hot. This was a very curious experience.

Two hours' further riding through a tract covered with willow and birch scrub, and we arrived
at the 'Bruara' river. When this river is low, it can be crossed by a rudely-constructed bridge,
with strong iron-clamped hand-rails on either side; but during floods it is impassable, as
several feet above the waters form a roaring cataract, when travellers have to be ferried across,
at a higher point.

On we rode still through the dust-storm, over lava fields, rugged and rough in the extreme,
and most weird-looking from their blackness. We passed several paths which our guide told us
led into the interior of the Island, where there are still large unexplored tracts, lying at
the base of a range of high snow mountains, called 'Jökull,' most of them supposed to be volcanic,
but of which little is really known.

We were all getting very tired as we neared the end of our second day's ride; tired and dirty,
for the sand-storm still continued. Fresh impetus was given to our ride, however, by overtaking
one of the miserable party of five who had preceded us by two hours from Thingvalla. He was
walking dejectedly beside his pony, too great a sufferer from inexperienced riding to remount.

Being inspired with ambition to be first in the field, we galloped past him and his companions
one by one, and A. L. T. and I had the excitement of finishing our race to the Geysers.

CHAPTER X.

THE GEYSERS.

We had been told at Reykjavik it was necessary to carry tents, as there was no accommodation
for travellers at the Geysers, but on arriving the wind was so strong that there was considerable
difficulty in pitching them, and while our guides and gentlemen friends were making the attempt,
we ladies tied up some tea in a muslin bag, and put it into a kettle, which we filled at the
nearest hot spring. In a very few minutes it was infused, and with thick cream procured from
the neighbouring farm, we enjoyed it much after our long dusty ride.

Just as the tent had been, as my brother thought, securely fixed, and while Vaughan and Mr
Gordon were inside arranging the rugs and pack-boxes as seats, unfortunately a fresh gust of
wind brought the whole affair down, burying them under the ruin. Our guides hastened to the
rescue, and, more experienced in the weather forecasts than they were, advised their waiting
till the wind had subsided before attempting to put up the tent again. To take our tea sitting
on the pack-boxes was all we could do, encouraging each other to patience. We dare not open
our boxes of eatables till the storm had subsided, or at least until we had some shelter to
protect them from a deposit of dust.

After tea we proceeded to make our inspection of the Geysers. Our first need was, however,
to wash our hands and faces, so, armed with towels, sponges, and soap, we knelt at the brink
of the nearest pool, and stooping down performed our ablutions, with our faces towards the
east, our persons being reflected in the clear green water. We could but liken ourselves to
Mahommedans, when they turn their faces towards Kibla, at Mecca, or Parsees when they kneel
facing the sun, which is considered by them a representative of God.

The immediate neighbourhood of the Geysers is not pretty; hills rise on one side, but otherwise
they lie in a plain, which, when we saw it on our first arrival, was so thickly covered with
sand from the storm that we could hardly discern any separate object. We hastened to examine
the great Geyser. Alas! it did not, and would not play; it had done so two days previously,
and we were told it was expected to renew the exploit, but, to our great mortification, it
failed to do so during our visit. One of the peculiarities of this natural phenomenon is that
sometimes at intervals of only a few hours it will eject columns of boiling water to the height
of 100 feet, at others it will remain silent for days together. In 1770 it is recorded that
this Geyser spouted eleven times in one day. Disappointed at losing the sight we had come so
far to see, we turned our attention to the 'Stroker,' which is situated about 90 feet from
its bigger neighbour. This also seemed in a quiescent state, but as the 'Stroker' can always
be made to play by filling up the opening with earth sods, until there is no hole for the steam
to escape, and it vomits the whole mass with a gigantic spout, we requested our guides to arrange
for this artificial display. The emetic was consequently administered. 'Stroker' was evidently
sulky, for the process had to be gone through no less than four times, whilst we waited the
result in patience for at least two hours; but the display was all the better when it came.

I said we waited in patience, which was hardly true, as we were all on the tiptoe of excitement.
Continual false alarms, and we all rushed to the 'Stroker's' side, only to be again disappointed,
so we unpacked our goods, and made preparations for our evening meal, examining the Great Geyser
and the hot springs meanwhile, grumbled at the smell of sulphur, and nearly despaired of the
eruption ever taking place, when a sudden start from our guides, who were standing on the edge
of the crater, and a shriek from them, 'He comes!' and a huge column of water ascended straight
into the air for about 60 feet, the spray being ejected to a considerable distance. The eruption
was accompanied by a rumbling noise and a hissing sound, as the shafts of water ascended.

We stood and watched the effect a few feet distant merely from this boiling column, feeling
the rumbling distinctly under our feet and as the wind blew the steam back, it fell like rain,
quite cold, but with sufficient force to wet us uncomfortably.

This great fountain display continued in full force a quarter of an hour; then the column gradually
got smaller, though steam and water issued from its mouth for a full half-hour before it quite
subsided. It was a splendid spectacle, and one which left a great impression on our minds;
the height of the column was fully 60 feet, and even after it had subsided, we remained some
time in contemplation of its cause and effect.

Speaking of Geysers, Professor Geikie says,--

'Eruptive formations of hot water and steam, to which the general name of Geyser (i.e., gusher)
is given from the examples in Iceland, which were the first to be seen and described, mark
a declining phase of volcanic activity.... It is from irregular tube-like excrescences that
the eruptions take place. The term Geyser is restricted to active openings whence columns of
hot water and steam are from time to time ejected; the non-eruptive pools are only hot springs.
A true Geyser should thus possess an underground pipe or passage, terminating at the surface
in an opening built round with deposits of sinter. At more or less regular intervals, rumblings
and sharp detonations in the pipe are followed by an agitation of water in the basin, and then
the violent expulsion of a column of water and steam to a considerable height in the air.'

Dr Samuel Kneeland, in his interesting book on Iceland, says,--

'There are two kinds of Geysers, one having jets of clear water, the other puffs of scalding
vapour, coming up through a soft mud or clay of a reddish colour, probably from iron salts.
In the water silica is held in solution by salts of soda, a silicate of soda being the chief
ingredient. They are said to have great remediable powers; but, judging from the facility with
which objects are encrusted by their silicates, it would seem as if their free use would soon
turn a person to stone.... The geyserite, or the solid incrustations, is over 80° of silica,
with 3° alumina, and a little magnesia, iron, potash, and soda.'

One thing I looked for in vain at these Geysers, namely, the pretty-coloured mud which is found
at the Yellowstone Park of America, and which I had often heard my father and brother describe.
In New Zealand the Geyser mud was formerly used by the Maoris as a kind of porridge, which
they were very fond of. It is a pity the starving Icelanders cannot do likewise.

I wish our party could have been photographed as it stood round the 'Stroker,' waiting for
the display, everybody's face a picture of expectation, which changed to disappointment at
the long time we had to wait. As 'little things please little minds,' to pass the time, Miss
T. and I were trundled about in the wheelbarrow in which the old men had brought the sods for
the Geyser's emetic from the farm; an occasional upset made our ride all the more amusing.
It was a ride worth noting, as it was performed in one of the very few wheeled conveyances
in the Island.

By the time the exhibition of the Geyser was over, the wind had lulled, the sandstorm had ceased,
and our tents had been successfully pitched. In the larger tent we dined, and for such an out-of-the-way
place, it was so wonderful a meal that I must describe it. We were sitting on the pack-boxes
inside the tent, waited on by two guides. First there was ox-tail soup quite hot, the tin having
been placed in a neighbouring hot spring--the Blissa--for twenty minutes. We had no soup plates,
but tumblers served the occasion, being afterwards washed by the guides, and made ready for
further use.

Tinned meat-collops followed, splendidly hot, and to us hungry mortals appeared excellent.
The third course was tongue, followed by tinned apricots and thick cream. Alas! we had no spoons,
and how to eat our cream and apricots was a puzzle. Our guide, whom we had christened 'Johnny,'
to his great delight, helped us out of this difficulty. He produced some horn spoons which
he had carved during the long winter evenings, and which he offered to sell to us for a krone
a-piece. It was quite high price enough, notwithstanding the carving, but the necessity of
the occasion made us glad to close with his offer. Cheese, biscuit, and figs concluded our
magnificent repast.

After dinner, another inspection of the great Geyser, to see if it was more inclined to favour
us with a display of its power, but a fruitless one; a walk amongst the hot springs, and then,
as it was bitterly cold, we decided to turn in for the night. Our tents were pitched exactly
half way between the great Geyser and the 'Stroker.' The large tent was to serve for the three
gentlemen and the two guides, and the smaller one for Miss T. and myself.

We had secured some bundles of hay for our beds, and our mackintosh sheets were used to cover
over them. My brother undertook to make our beds, and arrange our tent for the night, and disappeared
inside, carrying with him the rugs, air-pillows, etc., necessary for the purpose.

On his returning and telling us all was ready, Miss T. and myself bid the party good-night.
We had not till then realised the height of our bedchamber, and how to enter it was a puzzle.
It was not like the big tent, which would hold a dozen people standing erect, but a tiny gipsy
tent, the opening so low, we literally had to crawl in on our hands and knees, whilst the whole
community stood round watching us, and laughing heartily.

Once inside, our difficulties were not over, for we found the sides of the tent so low that
we could only sit up straight in the middle. So we could do no more than partially undress
and roll ourselves in our fur cloaks and rugs. With the exception of waking now and then to
listen to the rumblings we had been told to expect before the eruption of the Great Geyser,
we spent a tolerably comfortable night, notwithstanding we were surrounded by boiling, seething
waters on every side, and were in hopeful expectation of the big Geyser's eruption. By the
morning we had got quite accustomed to the sulphurous odours.

We had several visitors in the early morning, who thrust under our tent such articles as jewellery,
saddle-cloths, carved spoons, etc., for sale. We bargained for some of these, and ultimately
obtained them. The prices at first asked were absurdly high, but these simple-minded Icelanders
have an idea that our nation's liberality is unbounded.

There is really little good old jewellery left in the Island, in consequence of the extreme
poverty of the natives, who have sold to travellers the greater portion of that which they
possessed.

How to dress in our three feet tent, was a problem which for some time our minds failed to
solve, and still more, how and where to wash, until the gentlemen informed us that as they
were going to the springs to bathe, their tent was at our disposal for as long as we wished.
Here we found that their forethought had provided a large tub from the farm, which they had
filled with warm water, so, after all, we had a luxurious bath.

When our only looking-glass was passed round, we each in turn exclaimed, 'How fearfully burnt
I am!' and so indeed we were. Our yachting caps and deerstalkers had been shade enough on board
ship, but not for a four days' ride across country in wind and a dust storm.

We had arrived at our journey's end, had seen the 'Stroker' at any rate play, and now if we
wished to catch our steamer at Reykjavik, we had no time to lose in preparing for our return
journey, so after breakfast, while our guides collected our steeds, packed the tents, etc.,
we started for a final look at the Geysers and the hot springs, which so abound in this neighbourhood.
There are, I believe, no less than fifty within the circuit of half a mile. These springs lie
at the base of a mountain of no great height, the tract in which these thermal waters is found
being about 700 yards in length and 300 in width.

The Great Geyser lies to the north of this plain, its basin, 60 feet in diameter, is at the
summit of a mound 20 feet in height, composed of silica, a mineral that the Geyser water holds
in solution, and which from the constant overflowing of the water, deposits layers of beautiful
enamel, which at the top is too hard to detach, although round the base soft and crumbly. The
basin is nearly circular, and is generally, except after an eruption, full to the brim, and
always steaming, the water at the bottom being about 228° Fahr.

The tube in the centre, from which the water spouts is about 10 feet across, and I read somewhere
that on measuring down about 70 feet, the tube took a sudden turn which prevented further soundings.
The water is ejected at a heat of 180° or 190° Fahr., and rises over 100 feet into the air.

These Geysers are nearly 400 feet above sea level.

The formation of the 'Stroker' differs from that of the Great Geyser in not having any basin
round its well, the latter being in shape like a rough test-tube, about 8 feet in diameter
and 36 feet deep, with two pipe-mouths. After the eruption witnessed by 'Burton,' he noticed
that 'the level of the water in the tube was at a depth of 25 feet, where might be seen, partly
submerged, the mouths of two pipes entering at different angles, close together on the side
nearest the Great Geyser. From these pipes steam belched forth at intervals with considerable
force, churning the water in the well round rapidly.'

It is strange that the eruptions of the 'Stroker' do not affect the water in the well of the
Great Geyser, though it is not 100 yards off, while on the other hand, when the Geyser is in
eruption, the water of the 'Stroker' subsides.

It really was very tantalising to have come so far, and be within a few hours' distance of
Hecla, and yet have to return without having visited it. Besides, from what we gathered, we
could well have exhausted another week in expeditions in the neighbourhood, but snow-capped
Hecla, the ice-clad heights of the Jöklar, and the Red Crater, with innumerable other interesting
excursions of Icelandic note, had to be left for a future visit, if ever we should make it,
to the Island.

The name of Hecla means a mantle: its last eruption occurred in 1845. Where is Hecla? Who has
not been asked that question at school? and little did I think, when learning geography, that
I should ever see it, even at a distance. Alas! time would not allow us a nearer acquaintance.
Visiting it meant either seventeen days round the Island in a Danish boat, or waiting six weeks
for the Camoens, circumstances over which we had no control made both impossible, and we had
reluctantly to give up the excursion. While these volcanoes and their adjuncts must ever remain,
from their uncertain eruptions, a cause of terror to the inhabitants--boiling and bubbling
for years, and then suddenly bursting forth, to the entire destruction of all around--they
have, we know also, a beneficial effect in the world's domestic economy. What, for instance,
would happen to Britain were it not for the Gulf Stream? It would be as cold as Labrador. The
streams in the Gulf of Mexico are fed from equatorial currents and boiling springs, and rush
on to the North Atlantic 25° or 30° warmer than the sea through which it passes, warming the
air of Western Europe.

Again, hot springs (caused by subterranean fires), which, from their curative celebrity, attract
visitors and invalids, mean business, and business means money to the inhabitants of the locality.

Taking our last farewell of these seething pools, which bubbled and boiled around us, I could
not help wondering what kind of commotion could be going on beneath the earth's surface. A
power that could thus eject 100 feet of boiling water into the air, and not burst asunder the
surrounding ground, was indeed a marvellous phenomenon. The Iceland Geysers, which were the
first discovered, as well as those of New Zealand (so soon to be destroyed), and those of the
Yellowstone Park, must ever be of enormous interest to the traveller and geologist, and with
regret we turned our backs upon them, having reached the turning-point of our journey and the
limit of our time. Time waits on no man, so we tore ourselves away, feeling, however, we had
seen in the Iceland Geysers one of the greatest marvels of Nature.

Various explanations of Geysers have been attempted by scientific men, and as some of my readers
may take sufficient interest in these wonderful phenomena to wish to know something regarding
the causes which originate them, I have got my father to write a short chapter on what he saw
and thought of the great Geysers in the volcanic district of the Yellowstone Park, which I
have appended at the end of my narrative.

CHAPTER XI.

FARM HOUSE.

We traversed nearly the same road on our return journey from the Geysers as we had taken en
route, our first halt being made at the farm near which we had lunched the previous day, situated
close to the winding river we had crossed so often. In our up journey, we had had no time to
spare, so could not visit the farm house and buildings. Indeed the Icelanders are very chary
of exhibiting their domestic arrangements and dwellings, hence it is difficult at all times
to visit their homes. However, I was determined to see over a farm house before leaving the
Island, so wandered around until we found an old woman. By shaking hands with her, and praising
up her skyr, we made her understand by signs that we wished to see the house and byre. These
were built of peat and rubble, with grass roofs, on one of which a cow was actually grazing
at the time. Outside, drying in the sun, were pieces of peat in size about two feet by three,
and about two inches thick; they were doubled, tent-fashion, to enable the air to pass through,
and were standing in a row along a turf wall. On inquiring their use, we learnt they were intended
as a species of saddle-cloth for the pack ponies, to protect the vertebrae. The peat being
placed on the animal's back, the loads are attached on either side by a rope made of the mane
and tail hair of the ponies, plaited neatly in three, either black and white or brown and white,
and mixed with a little flax, they really form quite a pretty adornment to the trappings; the
loops through which the ropes pass are of carved sheep's horns, knotted into most fantastic shapes.

We first visited the dairy, composed of peat and rubble as usual. Inside, placed on a shelf,
were large basins of milk and cream, as in England. Sheep and cows' milk were side by side,
for this farmer was a wealthy man, and the happy possessor of a few cattle. He had butter too,
waiting to be sent to Reykjavik, which we tasted and found very good, and an old-fashioned
churn, some three feet high, like a chimney-pot with a rod down the middle, terminating in
a piece of flat wood. Of this churn the old lady seemed very proud, and she was quite delighted
when I lifted the rod up and down, to find I knew how to use it. I believe that won her heart.

Leaving the dairy, the old woman took my hand and dragged me along a perfectly dark passage,
Miss T. following. This passage was paved with stones, and had stone walls on either side.
Half stifled with peat smoke, we arrived, puffing and panting, in the kitchen. Here in a corner
was the big peat fire which filled the whole dwelling with its exhalations. All around was
perfect blackness, until our eyes got accustomed to the dim hazy light, when we espied a woman
in a corner making cakes, formed of two layers of meal buttered and placed at the bottom of
a huge cauldron, such as is used by the Irish peasantry for boiling potatoes. These cakes served
hot are very palatable.

There was no chimney; the smoke merely escaped the best way it could through a small hole,
around which some hams were being smoked. They must have been mutton hams, for there are no
pigs from which to get others; and mutton hams properly smoked are very good too.

We were next conducted through another long dark passage, down which we stumbled, bumping our
heads against the side walls, there being no entrance of light whatever, save what came through
the doorway from the reflection of the embers of the peat fire. So dark was the passage, we
almost fancied we were going through a coal mine. After a time we reached a second room, devoted
to the storing of packets of dried fish and huge barrels of skyr; but the want of ventilation
and light in this quaint Icelandic larder was sadly felt.

Where did the family sleep? we asked ourselves, after visiting another such apartment. Finally,
by sundry gesticulations, we succeeded in making our old friend understand our question, when
off she led us to the family bedroom. Imagine a long passage room with a small window at either
end, containing seven wooden beds, placed so that five joined head and foot along one wall,
while the other two were on either side of the door. Here the whole family disposed of themselves
at night.

In one of the beds lay a poor sick child. From her wasted appearance one might suppose she
was in a consumption, but this fatal disease is unknown in Iceland.

In another bed lay a poor old woman, who as I addressed her grinned at me so horribly, in the
dim-light, that she had the appearance of an awful old witch, and afforded a great contrast
to the fragile child in the adjoining bed. Each bed was covered by an old-fashioned patch-work
quilt.

Stowed away among the low rafters of the roof I noticed a spinning-wheel and paraffin lamp,
and some clothes packed in little tight bundles; much as I should have liked to stop and take
in a few more details, my nasal organs could stand no more, and, feeling somewhat faint, I
had, nolens volens, to make a rush for the door. Much to my regret, I did not dare venture
inside again to further inspect this curious bedchamber.

Our old lady bade us a most affectionate farewell, returning several times to shake us warmly
by the hand, but distinctly refusing our proffered krone.

About half way between the Geysers and Thingvalla we recrossed the famous Bruara Fall. From
bank to bank it is probably 200 feet, but in fine weather a crossing can be made by a little
bridge which spans some 6 feet of babbling, seething water at the narrowest part of the rocks,
where the river forms two cascades. The bridge is old and rickety, and as the water is of considerable
depth and tremendous volume, the bridge is hardly a desirable halting-place for any length
of time, although the view from its planks is very fascinating.

We passed that night once more in the parsonage at Thingvalla, but much more comfortably than
before, as we had engaged all the rooms beforehand, and also ordered a good fish dinner to
be ready for us on our arrival.

As to meat, we did not expect to get it; beef is hardly ever eaten by the Icelanders, being
too expensive to procure. The native sheep are usually killed towards the end of September,
and the meat salted or smoked for winter consumption. Formerly horse-flesh was much eaten in
the Island, but is not so now. This struck us as strange in a place where such a scarcity of
food exists, and where ponies abound. Having tasted it myself while in Germany, I know it is
by no means to be despised.

The principal vegetables to be had in Iceland are turnips and potatoes, and of these there
is only a limited supply; so that really fish remains the one staple diet of the Island,--on
the coast this is eaten fresh, but it is dried before being packed and sent into the interior--cod,
salmon, haddock, trout, halibut, herrings, flounders, and sometimes sharks.

The next morning, as soon as we had breakfasted, we mounted our ponies with the regretful feeling
the day's ride would be our last in Iceland. We had been unfortunate in missing the clergyman
at Thingvalla both going and returning: we regretted it the more as we heard that he was a
very clever man and a good English scholar. Our good-natured hostess, however, had done her
best to supply his place, and we bade her a hearty farewell, with much shaking of hands. Off
we went at a gallop, traversing the same route, fording the same rivers as on our up journey,
arriving safely at Reykjavik on the fourth day from that on which we had left it, having compassed
the 160 miles in three and a half days with comparatively little fatigue, which I attribute
to our mode of riding being so much easier a movement than sitting sideways with a half twisted
body. I can only repeat what I before said, that we should never have accomplished this long
and fatiguing ride so easily, and in such a short time, either in a chair or on a side saddle;
so if any lady should follow our example, and go to Iceland, let her be prepared to defy Mrs
Grundy, and ride as a man.

We had certainly every reason to be contented with the result of our trip to the Geysers. The
weather had been favourable,--very hot sometimes in the middle of the day, but cold at night;
but this was rather refreshing than otherwise, and the scenery had well repaid our toil and
trouble. The Icelandic landscapes do not lack colour, as has been asserted by some travellers;
whilst the clearness of the atmosphere is wonderful, and the shades of blue, purple, carmine,
and yellow in the sky melting into one another produce most lovely effects.

Unquestionably the landscape lacks trees and verdure, and one missed the gorgeous autumn colouring
of our English woods, for there is no foliage, only low scrub jungle. It seems very doubtful
if Iceland was ever wooded, as is supposed by some persons, as no trees of any size have as
yet been discovered in the peat beds, a very conclusive evidence to the contrary.

Iceland is so sparsely populated that one often rides miles without encountering a human being.
Even in the little town of Sauderkrok there is not much life in the streets; for instance,
A. L. T. dropped his pipe as we rode out of the town, and on our return, eight hours later,
we found it in the centre of a small street, exactly where he had dropped it. Now, as a pipe
is a coveted luxury to an Icelander, it is presumable that no one could have passed along that
street in our absence.

It was just 3 P.M. when we entered Reykjavik, having accomplished our last day's ride from
Thingvalla in six and a half hours. The Camoens was still safely at anchor in the harbour,
and we rejoiced at having returned without a single contretemps.

On our way through Reykjavik to the ship Mr Gordon ordered dinner at the hotel to be ready
by 7 o'clock, and we looked forward to this repast with much pleasure after our tinned meat
and biscuit diet of the last few days.

Before returning on board to change our riding dresses, we went in search of the washing. In
a queer little wooden house, at the back of the town, we found the washerman, who smiled and
nodded, and asked 3s. for what would have cost 30s. in England, handing us an enormous linen
bag, in which the things were packed. This was consigned to A. L. T., who carried it in both
arms through the town, and ultimately on board, where it landed quite dry; and to our surprise
we found our linen had been most beautifully washed and got up, quite worthy of a first-class
laundry.

The dinner was excellent, everything being very hot, and served in Danish style. As is the
universal custom among the better class, the hostess waited on us herself, and told us she
had spun her own dress and the sitting-room carpet the winter before, and always wove her own
linen. This was our last evening ashore, as we were to heave anchor at midnight on Tuesday,
17th August, and in four and a half days we were, if all went well, to find ourselves back
in Scotland. Alas! these expectations were not realised, as few human aspirations are!

During our four days' absence to the Geysers, the captain and crew had been engaged in shipping
no less than 617 ponies, which additional cargo caused two days' delay. Poor little beasts,
when we arrived on board we found they had all been so tightly stowed away as not to be able
to lie down. Fine sturdy little animals they appeared, mostly under seven years of age, and
in excellent condition; a very different sight to what they were on arriving at Granton, when,
after six and a half days' voyage, every rib showed distinctly through their wasted, tucked
up forms.

After our dinner we lounged about in Reykjavik, paying a farewell visit to the few objects
of interest it has for travellers, most of which have already been cursorily noticed in a previous
chapter.

We spent some little time in the Museum again, which, after all, is not much of an exhibition,
for, as our cicerone, the hotel-keeper's daughter, Fräulein Johannison, explained, all the
best curiosities had been carried off to Denmark. I naturally looked everywhere in the little
Museum for an egg of the Great Auk, or a stuffed specimen of the bird, but there was neither,
which struck me as rather curious, considering Iceland was originally the home of this now
extinct species. Not even an egg has been found for over forty years, although diligent search
has been made by several well-known naturalists. The Great Auk was never a pretty bird; it
was large in size, often weighing 11 lb. It had a duck's bill, and small eyes, with a large
unwieldy body, and web feet. Its wings were extremely small and ugly, from long want of use,
so the bird's movements on land were slow, and it was quite incapable of flight. On the water
it swam fast and well.

There are only about ten complete specimens of this bird, and about seventy eggs, known to
exist In March 1888, one of these eggs was sold by auction for £225.

From the Museum we entered some of the stores, and purchased a fair collection of photographs,
some skin shoes, snuff-boxes, buckles, and other native curios; we than returned to the hotel,
paid our bill, bade our host, hostess, and guides farewell, with many regretful shakes of the
hand on either side, and finally quitted Icelandic ground about 9 P.M.

The evening was lovely, and after arranging our cabins we remained some time on deck watching
the Northern Lights, which illuminated the entire heavens, and were most beautiful. Unfortunately
we did not see the 'Aurora Borealis,' which in these latitudes is often visible.

The following afternoon as we were passing the curious rocky Westmann Islands, we slacked steam,
to allow an old man in a boat to get the mail bag thrown over to him. He had rowed out some
three miles to fetch the mail, and the bag contained exactly one letter, and a few newspapers.
Steaming on again we sighted no more land until Scotland came in view, which we reached on
Sunday afternoon. What a passage we had! It was rough going to Iceland, but nothing to be compared
to our return voyage! We sat on deck, either with our chairs lashed, or else holding on to
ropes until our hands were quite benumbed with cold, while huge waves, at least 15 feet high,
dashed over the ship, often over the bridge itself. If we opened our cabin portholes for a
little fresh air, which at times was really a necessity, the cabin was soon flooded, and our
clothes and rugs spent half their time being dried in the donkey engine room.

Eleven of the poor ponies died, and had to be thrown overboard, a serious loss to their owners;
but one could not help wondering that more of them did not succumb, so closely were they packed
together, with very little air but that afforded by the windsails. It was marvellous how the
sailors managed to drag out the dead from the living mass of animals. This they accomplished
by walking on the backs of the survivors, and roping the dead animals, drew the carcases to
the centre hold of the ship, when the crane soon brought them to the surface, and consigned
them to a watery grave.

For six days the live cargo of beasts had to balance themselves with the ship's movement in
these turbulent seas without one moment's respite or change of position. No wonder that on
arriving at Granton they were in a miserable plight. Within five minutes, however, of our being
roped to the pier they were being taken off in horse boxes, three at a time, and the entire
number were landed in three hours.

The hot air from the stables was at times overpowering, notwithstanding that eight windsails
were kept over it, which as they flapped in the wind, looked just like eight ghosts.

The Camoens was a steady sea boat, but better adapted for cargo than for passengers, especially
lady passengers, and the captain did not disguise that he preferred not having the latter on
board. Once in calm water we discovered we had seriously shifted our cargo, and lay all over
on one side, so much so that a cup of tea could not stand, the slant being great, although
the water was perfectly calm.

Well, we had accomplished our trip, and very much we had enjoyed it. We had really seen Iceland,
that far off region of ice and snow, and had returned safely. The six days on board ship passed
pleasantly enough for us; we had got accustomed to roughing it, and were all very good friends
with each other, and the few other passengers. We found one of these especially interesting;
he was a scientific Frenchman, who had been sent to Iceland to write a book for the Government,
and being a very poor English scholar was very glad to find some one who could converse in
his native tongue. We hardly saw a ship the whole way, but we saw plenty of whales, not, however,
the kind which go to Dundee, where the whalebone fetches from £1200 to £2000 a ton.

We brought an enormous skeleton home which was found off the coast of Iceland; and such an
immense size; it was sent to England as a curiosity for some museum.

Occasionally we had lovely phosphorescent effects, and as we neared Scotland, millions of pink
and brown jelly-fish filled the water. At Thurso we hailed a boat to send telegrams ashore--such
a collection!--to let our various friends know we had returned in safety from Ultima Thule.
That night as we passed Aberdeen we entered calm water, and there was hardly a ripple all the
way to Granton, where we landed at 3.30 on Monday, 23d August, exactly twenty-four days from
starting.

Such a lovely day! The Forth looked perfect as we steamed up to our harbour anchorage. The
grand hills and rocks and the fine old Castle were a contrast to poor little Reykjavik, the
capital of Iceland. The pretty town, and the trees, how we enjoyed the sight of the latter,
for we had seen no trees for weeks, and their green looked most pleasing amongst the stone
buildings.

How busy, how civilised everything appeared! When will trains and carts traverse the Northern
Isle we had just left? Oh, but where are the emigrants? Let us go and watch their surprised
faces as they catch the first glimpse of this new scene. We went, and were sorely disappointed.
They were merely standing together with their backs to the view, putting on their boots, or
occupied about minor matters, taking no notice whatever of their surroundings, and receiving
no new impressions. It must require a civilised mind, we suppose, to appreciate civilisation,
just as it requires talent to appreciate talent.

Below is a table of our expenditure during our trip, which may perhaps prove of service to
one wishing to enjoy an uncommon autumn holiday:--

Five people travelling together for twenty-five days disbursed each £20, 1s. 8d.

 Passage Money round Island and return,      £8  0  0
 Food, 6s. 6d. a day,                         6  3  0
 Steward, 10s.,                               0 10  0
 Food taken from London, £2, 10s., or
     10s. each,                               0 10  0
 Four days' ride to Geysers; two nights
     Thingvalla; ponies, guides, tents,
     sods, pasturage for ponies; milk,
     coffee, etc.,                            4  0  0
 Akureyri; going ashore, dinner, pony, etc.,  0  6 10
 Sanderkrok;    "        skyr, coffee, etc.,  0  6  0
 Bordeyri;      "          "      "     "     0  5 10
                                            ---------
                                            £20  1  8

 Wine not included.

 Purchases, photos, washing, stamps, and other individual
 personal expenses extra.

CHAPTER XII.

VOLCANOES.

In the foregoing pages it may seem strange that hardly any allusion has been made to the special
characteristic of Iceland, viz., its volcanic structure, or to the numerous lava floods which,
bursting forth in furious molten streams, have from time to time devastated its surface, leaving
in their track a chaos of disrupted rocks, chasms, vast fissures, and subterranean caverns.

Our trip to Iceland was, however, unfortunately so limited in duration as to preclude, save
in our four days' ride to the Great Geyser tract, any extension of travel in the various volcanic
regions. Hence the omission. I have therefore extracted the following data relative to its
principal volcanoes and their eruptions from such books of reference [Footnote: Mrs Somerville's
'Physical Geography;' Chambers' 'Encyclopædia;' Ree's 'Cyclopædia;' Lyell's 'Geology;' Mr George
Lock's 'Guide to Iceland.'] as have been available to me.

The annexed compilation will, I think, explain to such of my readers as are not acquainted
with the geological strata of Iceland, its sterile nature, the extreme poverty of its inhabitants,
and the constant terror under which their existence is passed, lest a fresh outbreak of lava
should sweep away both them and their homesteads. It is somewhat singular, that although Iceland
may be looked upon as a veritable mass of volcanoes and hot springs--for with the exception
of some 4000 square miles of habitable ground, it may be said literally to rest on underground
fires, and while the various eruptions of Etna, Vesuvius, and other volcanoes have for centuries
been watched and recorded in the public papers with interest--it is only comparatively recently
that the awe-inspiring volcanic eruptions of Iceland have been brought into notice. For instance,
while full fifty pages in Ree's 'Cyclopædia' are devoted to the subject of volcanoes, those
of Iceland are barely touched upon; yet their eruptions are by far the most devastating on
record. So limited, indeed, formerly were the researches of science in these ice-clad regions,
that for long Hecla was quoted as its only volcano.

Now that the Island has attracted the further notice of geologists, it has been shown that
there exist no less than twenty volcanic mountains, all of which have been in active eruption
within historic times, and nearly one hundred eruptions have been chronicled as having taken
place in the Island.

Although Hecla is doubtless the best known of the Iceland volcanoes, it is by no means the
largest; that of 'Askja' (a basket), far surpasses it in size. This latter volcano lies in
a great central desert termed 'Odaxa-hraun' or 'Misdeed Lava Desert,' covering a space of 1200
square miles, and a most appropriate name it is, for the devastation caused by its last flood
of lava is indescribable.

In one of the convulsions of this mountain in 1875, a quantity of lava five miles in circumference
was disrupted, sinking into the mountain to a depth of 710 feet, and causing an earthquake
which was felt all over the island. In one region, viz., that of the 'Myvatn's Orœfi' or 'Midge
Lake Desert,' a fissure was opened which extended over 20 miles in a north-easterly direction,
through which molten lava flowed continuously for four months after the earthquake. Although
this fissure is at least 30 miles from Askja, so great was the column of fire thrown up by
the eruption, that it was visible for four successive days at Reykjavik, 100 miles distant.
The study of an Icelandic map will show the numerous volcanic ranges of mountains which intersect
the island in almost every direction.

To the north there will be seen a wonderful volcanic tract. So vast, in fact, that Professor
Johnstrup has termed it the Fire Focus of the North. To the north-east, again, is found a large
lake, called 'Myvata,' or 'Midge Lake,' with a volcanic range of mountains which stretch from
north to south; the most famous of these are 'Leivhnukr,' and 'Krafla,' which, after years
of quiescence, poured forth such an amount of lava into the adjoining lake that for many days
its waters stood at boiling heat. Other volcanoes in this region eject with terrible force
a quantity of boiling mineral pitch, throwing up the dark matter completely enveloped in steam,
accompanied by horrible rumbling noises.

Sir George Mackenzie, in his travels in Iceland, thus describes one of the deposits:--

'It is impossible,' he says, 'to convey any idea of the wonders of its terrors, or the sensations
of a person even of strong nerves standing on a support which but feebly bears him, and below
which fire and brimstone are in incessant action, having before his eyes tremendous proof of
what is going on beneath him; enveloped in thick vapour, his ears stunned with thundering noises--such
a situation can only be conceived by one who has experienced it.'

The extent of the sulphur beds too in this region are beyond calculation: they reproduce themselves
every few years. In the vicinity of 'Krafla' is a curious rock, composed of obsidian, a substance
which closely resembles black glass.

To the south of the Island is another volcano, termed the 'Kotlugja,' or 'Cauldron Rift,' lying
among glaciers known as the 'Myrdals Jökull,' whose eruptions, thirteen of which have been
noted, are considered to have done more mischief than any others in the Island. Between the
Myrdals and the 'Orœja Jökla' lies one of the most noted volcanoes of Iceland--the 'Skaptar-Jökull,'
whose eruption in 1783 is chronicled in all works on Iceland, as the prodigious floods of lava
it poured forth in that year were unparalleled in historic times. The molten streams rushing
seaward, down the rivers and valleys, the glowing lava leaping over precipices and rocks, which
in after years, when they have cooled down, resemble petrified cataracts, and now form one
of the grand scenic attractions of the Island.

In Mrs Somerville's 'Physical Geography,' she vividly describes this eruption, narrating how,
commencing in May 1783, it continued pouring forth its fiery streams with unabated fury until
the following August. So great was the amount of vapour, that the sun was hidden for months,
whilst clouds of ashes were carried hundreds of miles out to sea. The quantity of matter ejected
on this occasion was calculated at from fifty to sixty thousand millions of cubic yards. The
burning lava flowed in a stream in some places 20 to 30 miles broad, filling up the beds of
rivers, and entering the sea at a distance of 50 miles from where the eruption occurred. Some
of the rivers were not only heated to boiling point, but were dried up, and the condensed vapour
fell as snow and rain. Epidemic disease followed in the wake of this fearful lava flood. It
was calculated that no less than 1300 persons, and 150,000 sheep and cattle perished, 20 villages
were destroyed. The eruption lasted two years.

Mr Paulson, a geologist, who visited Iceland eleven years later, found smoke still issuing
from the rocks in the locality.

The heat of this eruption not only re-melted old lavas, and opened fresh subterranean caverns,
but one of its streams was computed to course the plains to an extent of 50 miles, with a depth
of 100 feet, and 12 to 15 feet broad. Another stream was calculated at 40 miles long, and 7
wide. Men, their cattle and homesteads, their churches and grazing lands, were burnt up, whilst
noxious vapours not only filled the air, but even shrouded the light of the sun.

The terrible convulsions which occurred in Iceland during the year 1783, were greater than
those recorded at any other period. About a month previously to the convulsion of 'Skaptar-Jökull,'
a submarine volcano burst out at sea, and so much pumice stone was ejected that the sea was
covered with it for 150 miles round, ships being stopped in their course, whilst a new island
was thrown up, which the King of Denmark claimed, and named Nyöe, or New Island. Before the
year had elapsed, however, it as speedily disappeared, leaving only a reef of rocks some 30
fathoms under water to mark its site.

But what of Hecla? which is 5000 feet high, and is situated close to the coast at the Southern
end of a low valley, lying between two vast parallel table lands covered with ice.

If the eruptions of Hecla are not considered to have been quite so devastating as those just
recorded of the 'Skaptar-Jökull,' their duration has been longer, some of them having lasted
six years at a time.

When Sir George Mackenzie visited Hecla, he found its principal crater 100 feet deep, and curiously
enough, it contained a quantity of snow at the bottom. There are many smaller craters near
its summit, the surrounding rocks, consisting chiefly of lava and basalt, are covered with
loose stones, scoria, and ashes.

A record of the eruptions of Hecla has been chronicled since the 10th century, and they number
43. One of its most violent convulsions occurred in the same year as that of the 'Skaptar-Jökull,'
viz., in 1783. At a distance of two miles from the crater, the lava flood was one mile wide,
and 40 feet deep, whilst its fine dust was scattered as far as the Orkney Islands, 400 miles
distant.

The mountain itself is composed of sand, grit, and ashes, several kinds of pumice stone being
thrown out of it. It also ejects a quantity of a species of black jaspars, which look as if
they had been burned at the extremities, while in form they resemble trees and branches. All
the different kinds of lava found in volcanoes are to be met with here, such as agate, pumice
stone, and both black and green lapis obsidian. These lavas are not all found near the place
of eruption, but at some distance, and on their becoming cold form arches and caverns, the
crust of which being hard rock. The smaller of the caverns are now used by the Icelanders for
sheltering their cattle. The largest of the caves known is 5034 feet long and from 50 to 54
feet broad and from 34 to 36 feet high.

It is believed by some geologists that a subterranean channel connects the volcanic vent of
Hecla with the great central one of Askja. This theory is based on the fact that a number of
lava floods have burst forth simultaneously at different times at great distances from the
volcanoes, leading to the supposition that innumerable subterranean channels exist in the neighbourhood.

The eruptions attributed to the volcano of Hecla vary much in number, some authorities saying
there have been 40. Mrs Somerville quotes them at 23, and Mr Locke, in his 'Guide to Iceland,'
at 17 in number. In the latter's work is given a table of most of its principal eruptions.
One of these was of a singular nature; huge chasms opened in the earth, and for three days
the wells and fountains became as white as milk, and new hot springs sprang into existence.

The twelfth eruption of this mountain was also of unusual violence. It occurred in January
1597. For twelve days previously to the outbreak loud reports were heard all over the Island,
while no less than eighteen columns of fire were seen ascending from it during its eruption.
The ashes it threw out covered half the Island.

The seventeenth eruption commenced on the 2d September 1845, and continued for seven months.
On this occasion the ashes were carried over to Shetland, and the columns of smoke rising from
the mountain reached a height of 14,000 Danish feet.

Such is a brief description of the tremendous forces which dominate Iceland. Here Nature works
in silence for long periods beneath the crust of the earth, and then, with little or no forewarning,
bursts forth in uncontrollable fury, ruthlessly devastating with its fiery streams whatever
impedes its course.

Who can wonder that, under such existing terrors, the scanty inhabitants of the Island are
a sad and dejected race. A people with death and terror continually at their doors can hardly
be otherwise; whilst competitive industry, energy, and hopeful prosperity are alike suppressed
by the constant devastations which occur.

With respect to the Thermal Springs, these must be considered as products of the same underground
fires, and which form a second characteristic of Iceland.

These Springs may be divided into three kinds, viz., those of unceasing ebullition, those which
are only sometimes eruptive, and wells which merely contain tepid water, though supposed to
have been formerly eruptive.

Professor Bunsen, who passed eleven days by the side of the Great Geyser in Iceland, attributes
the phenomenon to the molecular changes which take place in water after being subjected to
heat. In such circumstances, water loses much of the air condensed in it, and the cohesion
of the molecules is thereby increased, and a higher temperature required to boil it. In this
state, when boiled, the production of vapour is so instantaneous as to cause an explosion.

Professor Bunsen found that the water at the bottom of the great Icelandic Geyser had a higher
temperature than that of boiling water, and that this temperature increasing, finally caused
its eruption.

In America, among the hot springs warmed by subterranean vapours, such as those springing from
the sides of 'Nuerode Chilian,' the hot springs gush out through a bed of perpetual snow.

Among the hot springs of Iceland, Mr G. Loch gives an interesting description of those known
as the 'Northern Geyser' and its tributary springs. One of these, the 'Uxhaver' or 'Ox Spring'
is named from an Ox having fallen into it, and in a short time having been thrown out in the
form of boiled beef. This hot spring emanates from an oval basin, 30 feet in circumference,
and 4 feet in diameter. Its spurts are very regular, occurring about every 6 minutes, and about
10 feet high. After a spurt the water in the basin is lowered from 4 to 6 feet, but quickly
refills, whilst the water thrown up is clear as crystal, and its spray glistening in the sun's
rays has a most beautiful effect.

The smaller springs in this so-called 'Uxhaver' group are collected in a bed of rock 280 feet
from the principal Geyser, and it is singular that although separated from it by only 300 yards
of boggy ground, the springs in each bed of rock seem to have a distinct source of supply,
for they are not affected by each other's spoutings. It is impossible even to enumerate the
various hot springs of Iceland, as they are spread over all its volcanic region.

I must here bring my little book to a close, and if it has done no more than make my readers
desire to make a personal acquaintance with this wonderful little Island, so full of natural
curiosities, so abounding in ancient history, so isolated, and so quaint, it will have served
its object.

APPENDIX.

WHAT IS A GEYSER?

Having been requested by my daughter to add to her little book a short explanatory chapter
on the marvellous phenomenon of Nature she saw in Iceland, commonly called a Geyser, I herewith
subjoin the results of a few of the observations and reflections I made while visiting the
great geysers of the volcanic districts of Wyoming and Montana, in the autumn of 1884.

In order to make the matter perfectly clear, let me say at the very outset that a geyser is
simply a volcano from which a quantity of superheated boiling water, saturated with mineral
matter, is paroxysmally ejected high into the air. Instead of, as in the case of fire volcanoes,
the ejected matters being smoke, flame, lava, scoria, pumice stone, and scalding mud. Moreover,
while the eruptions from all volcanoes are intermittent--that is to say, every kind of volcano
has alternating periods of activity and repose--the eruptions from geysers further differ from
the fire and flame ejections of burning mountains, with their other attendant phenomena, in
occurring at definite periods of time, and being of equally definite durations. It is this
life-like periodicity in the geyser's mode of action which makes it as awe-inspiring to behold
as it is puzzling to explain.

That hot water should issue in a continuous and but little varying sized stream from the bowels
of the earth, with a force sufficient to carry it high into the air, has nothing whatever wonderful
about it. Such a natural phenomenon may be witnessed at many places. For example, it may be
seen doing so everyday at the white foaming, frothing, natural mineral water sprudel of Nauheim,
or at any artificially bored artesian well, such as the celebrated one at Paris. Nor does the
mere intermittence of water issuing from the bowels of the earth suffice to surprise one. For
such natural phenomena are seen at Bolder-Born, in Westphalia; the Lay-Well, at Torbay; the
Giggleswick Well, in Yorkshire; and even on a small scale at St Anthony's Well, Arthur's Seat,
Edinburgh; all which occurrences are readily explicable on ordinary hydraulic principles, and
quite different things from geyser action, which try to explain it as you will, always runs
into a volcanic groove. Yet the periodicity of a geyser's action cannot be said to be entirely
due to volcanic agency. For the mere action of heat on the solids of the earth's crust, or
even of heat in simple conjunction with water, according to either Mackenzie or Tyndall's theories,
[Footnote: Sir G. S. Mackenzie's 'Travels in Iceland,' in 1810, p. 228. Prof. Tyndall 'On Heat,'
p. 126.] even did they suffice to give a satisfactory explanation of the action of the geysers
in Iceland, are assuredly totally inadequate to explain the action of all those of the Yellowstone
Park. For the simple reason that the vapours escaping from some of them are so strongly impregnated
with hydrochloric, sulphurous, and sulphuric acid gases, as well as with sulphuretted hydrogen,
as to compel one to believe that chemical action plays a not unimportant part in the production
of the phenomena there witnessed. Moreover, the solids brought up by the water closely resemble
in chemical composition the lava ejected from burning mountains, inasmuch as, besides containing
a large percentage of silica and alumina, they likewise consist of lime, potash, soda, magnesia,
and iron, as well as of a small proportion of other metals, as was guessed at by the beautifully
varied green, rose, yellow, and purple hues of the beds of the streamlets flowing from the
craters of the geysers. The geysers of the Yellowstone, although situated at the height of
7765 feet above the level of the sea, nevertheless lie in valleys, for the mountains surrounding
them are much higher still.

Some idea of the force with which the water issues from the earth, may be formed from the fact
that it is in some cases sufficient to carry a column of over six feet in diameter 200 feet
high, for the space of twenty minutes at a time. And all know that 200 feet is nearly double
the height of any ordinary church steeple. Moreover, the amount of solids brought up with the
water may be imagined when I say that, in one of the boiling springs, the mixture so closely
resembles thick milk gruel as to have given to it the name of the 'paint-pot,' and so loaded
is its water with mineral matters, that they consolidate almost immediately after escaping
from the spring's outlet. So thick indeed is it, that I kneaded some into the shape of a brick,
which I have still in my possession. All the geyser water in this district is so charged with
silicious earths that it consolidates sufficiently rapidly to form an upright rim around each
geyser's vent. Just as a fringe of scoria and lava encircles the mouth of a burning mountain.

The rapidity with which the deposits form and solidify may be conjectured when I say that I
saw trees growing close to some of the geysers whose stems and lower branches were so encrusted
with geyserite as to give the idea that they were actually petrified. While again I saw an
old horse shoe, which had only been fourteen days in the water, so completely enveloped with
it that it looked exactly as if it had been hewn out of solid marble.

The mere glancing around, and noticing how the geysers had evidently, like human beings, but
a transient existence, produced a somewhat strange sensation. For it was perfectly evident
that they are born but to die. All of them appearing to spout themselves permanently out. For
while on one side some seemed just as if they were starting into existence, on another were
those apparently in the very zenith of their strength, while others again looked as if they
were making but their last feeble efforts at existence, though it was evident, from the heaps
of consolidated geyserite surrounding them, that they had but recently passed through halcyon
days of youthful energy and manhood power. Every here and there again we came upon others from
whose wide open empty mouths came forth neither a puff of steam nor a drop of water. They were
dead, and not a few of them were so completely eviscerated as to allow of the explorer to descend
with perfect safety into the bowels of the earth through their vents. Geyser activity is in
fact but the last act in the drama of volcanic life: all around proved this. Close at hand
were stupendous cliffs of pure obsidian--the black bottle glass manufactured in Nature's furnaces.
Even half a mile of our road was macadamised with it. And so similar not only in chemical composition
but in optical properties is this obsidian to actual glass, that a flat piece I picked up on
the road, just after it had been splintered off a block by one of the wheels of our carriage,
is as transparent as any piece of black bottle glass of equal thickness. These mountains of
obsidian plainly tell how awfully stupendous must have been the heating process which called
them into existence, as well as how big must be the cavities left in the bowels of the earth
from which the materials constituting them were obtained. No doubt water scoops out caverns
in the softer strata composing the earth's crust, but these can scarcely be thought to equal
in extent the cavities made by volcanoes. Think, for example, of what a hole in the earth must
have been left by the 50 miles long and 5 miles broad lava stream which flowed from Mauna Loa
in 1859, and fell as a fiery cascade over a cliff into the sea, in sufficient amount to fill
up a large bay.

The geyser basin is in many places actually honeycombed with various sized caverns, either
directly due to volcanic action, or to water, or to both combined, and these caverns, though
widely apart, may yet freely communicate with each other by means of subterranean river courses.
I have myself followed one river course into the bowels of the earth for three miles and more,
in the great Adelsberg Grotto, in Styria. I have rowed across the lake in the dismally dark
cavern at Han, in the Ardennes. And even in our own Derbyshire, I have seen, half-a-mile from
the entrance of the Speedwell Mine, a river, a water-fall, and a lake, all of which tell that
such natural phenomena exist within the bowels of the earth as well as upon its surface. Moreover,
the resounding echoes from the clatter of our horses' feet as they briskly trotted over some
of the geyserite, as well as the heat we experienced through the thick leather soles of our
boots as we walked across it, was unmistakable proof that but a thin layer of crust separated
the surface of the globe we were traversing in Wyoming and Montana not alone from vast caverns,
but likewise from still active subterranean fires.

All the preceding facts I have narrated must be borne in mind, in order that the theory of
geyser action I am now about to propound may be readily understood. For unless the reader believes:--

1st. That cavities of various shapes and sizes exist in the earth's crust;

2d. That the earth possesses internal lakes as well as rivers;

3d. That there are vast internal fires still actively at work in the neighbourhood of geysers; and,

4th. That the smell of the acid vapours and sulphuretted hydrogen, as well as the mineral matters
dissolved and suspended in the ejected waters, are proof positive of chemical activity, he
will entirely fail to perceive the value of my remarks regarding the cause of a geyser's action
being not only spasmodic but periodic.

On the next page is an explanatory diagramatic sketch, in which no attempt has been made at
the impossible, namely, to apportion the size, the shape, or the situation of the cavities
to each other. As they may in reality be close together, or miles apart. They may all be on
the same level, or more likely not. They may be of nearly equal dimensions, or of varying sizes.
It matters not one whit, for the purposes of the demonstration of the theory of geyser action
now being adduced.

A. A cavernous reservoir, receiving its water supply by streamlet feeders (b) from the hills
(a). B. A natural, and, it may be, circuitous syphon conduit, by which the water can only reach
chamber (C) after it has filled tube (B) to the level of the syphon's top, consequently the
supply of water to chamber (C) is intermittent, and only lasts until the water in chamber (A)
has sunk down to the orifice of its syphon connection. C. Is supposed to be the chemical laboratory
in which the decomposable minerals are, and it is further supposed to be heated by subterranean
fires. In case the reader knows but little of chemistry, I may remark that all chemical changes
are greatly accelerated by heat, and that superheated steam is a most powerful agent in expediting
the decomposition of earthy and alkaline compounds.

In the case of these subterranean laboratories, it is utterly impossible for even the scientifically
trained mind to conceive what the extent of the heat may be. All he knows is that it is probably
far greater than suffices to resolve water into its gaseous elements--oxygen and hydrogen--and
that even before this point is reached, superheated steam becomes a terrifically formidable
explosive agent. Look at what it did at Ban-dai-san in Japan last year. It actually split a
mountain three miles in circumference in twain, and blew one half of it right away into a valley
as if it had been the mere outside wall of a house. And such was the force of the wind-shock
it occasioned that all the trees growing on the opposite mountain's side were knocked down
by it as if they had been mere nine-pins. [Footnote: In 'Nature,' of the 17th January 1889,
at p. 279, will be found an account of the scene of devastation when it was visited (in the
month of October 1888) by my son Vaughan; the same who visited the geysers of the Yellowstone
with me in 1884, and those of Iceland with his sister in 1887.]

In the case of the geyser, superadded to the superheated steam's explosive power, there will
be in addition that of the gases liberated by the decomposition of the carbonates, sulphates,
and chlorides (under the combined influence of heat and water) in chamber (C), which I call
for the nonce the chemical laboratory. Not alone will all earthy and alkaline, but even metallic
compounds, like iron pyrites, therein contained, be rapidly decomposed on the advent of the
superheated water. And from their gaseous elements being held in a confined space, they will
acquire an enormous explosive power. Consequently, there is no difficulty in understanding
how that on obtaining entrance into chamber (E) by means of conduit (D), they will instantly
proceed to expel from it all its water. And from the water finding no other outlet except by
vent (F), it will rush through it, and, by virtue of the propelling force of the gases, be
thrown up into the air in the form of a geyser. Whose activity will only last so long as the
supply of water in chamber (F) remains unexhausted.

The above being a rough outline of the salient points of what I consider to be a rational,
though, it may be, incomplete, theory of the geyser action I saw in the Yellowstone Park, I
shall now add a concluding word on the probable mode of action of the so-called 'earth-sod
emetic' that my daughter describes as having been given to the 'Stroker' geyser in Iceland
in order to make it eject its water.

The mode of action of the sods, I think, is easily enough explained on the supposition that
the geyser has a constriction at some point or another in its vent, and that the sods plug
it up sufficiently to hold back the steam and water until they have accumulated sufficient
power to blow out the obstructing body, and escape after it with a rush into the air. Precisely
in the same way as a fermenting barrel of beer blows out its bung, and its fluid contents gush
out, when its vent-hole accidentally becomes plugged up.

                               GEORGE HARLEY, M.D., F.R.S.

THE END.

V.: M.: 4.89.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

TWENTY-SIX ILLUSTRATIONS.

Second and Cheaper Edition. 7s. 6d. BLISS, SANDS, & FOSTER.

Spectator (four columns of review).--"We have little but commendation for a book which will
be very widely read by all lovers of adventurous travel on the one hand, and on the other by
those who will be more especially interested with the personal chapters upon such names of
fame as Nansen and the latter day dramatists of Norway, Ibsen and Björnsen.... Many of our
authoress's chapters are immensely entertaining.... The pages from start to finish are really
a treat; her book of travel is altogether too racy, too breezy, too observant, too new, to
let us part from her with anything but the most sincere compliments."

Times.--"Breezy and entertaining. Mrs. Alec Tweedie describes the life with much spirit and
sympathy, making light of its hardships, thoroughly enjoying its brisk activities, its cordial
hospitality, its exhilarating sleigh journeys, and its wonderful sports of ski racing and ski
jumping."

Daily Telegraph.--"The charm of Mrs. Alec Tweedie's 'Winter Jaunt to Norway' is that it describes
the features and adventures of a winter season. It is another country from the warm summer
'Norroway' which her lively pen and sympathetic observation depict.... The volume is one of
varied attractions, and will well repay perusal."

Morning Post.--" ... The description she has given of much that she saw and heard is written
in simple yet vigorous language, and abounds in useful as well as entertaining information
about Norway and the social life of its people."

Queen.--"A most interestingly written account of a most interesting journey.... Only space
forbids our saying more about a book of travel that is light, bright, and novel from beginning
to end."

Pall Mall Gazette.--"Courageous sketching from nature. She is an admirable traveller, stops
at nothing, and makes no boast of her bravery."

Athenæum.--"It is pleasant in these days of pessimism to come across so bright and cheerful
a book as Mrs. Alec Tweedie's account of her travels and adventures in Norway ... and records
her experiences with an enthusiasm which is stimulating and contagious."

Sketch.--"Described with good humour and good sense, which are quite invigorating."

Field.--"Pleasantly written book; lively and entertaining style."

Globe.--"Well worth perusal."

Daily Chronicle.--"Vivid and sprightly narrative."

Golf.--"It is an excellent book."

Publishers Circular.--"One of the freshest and best of recent travel books."

National Observer.--"We hear much that is interesting."

Westminster Budget.--"A very lively book of travel."

To-Day.--"A very bright and readable book."

Gentlewoman.--"One must acknowledge that she has used both her eyes and her opportunities of
observing Scandinavia."

Weekly Sun.--"Excellent book.... One of the most readable and interesting books of travel I
have ever read. Its chief charm is the fresh breath it gives you of these beautiful Norwegian
climes."

       *       *       *       *       *

BY THE SAME AUTHOR.

"A GIRL'S RIDE IN ICELAND."

Second Edition, with numerous Illustrations. Price 5s.

HORACE COX.

Press Notices of the First Edition.

Athenæum.--"A most attractive little volume, wherein Mrs. Alec Tweedie gives a spirited account
of a spirited jaunt.... Mrs. Tweedie has persuaded her father, Dr. George Harley, F.R.S., to
add a chapter on Geysers, which forms an instructive and valuable appendix to this charming
little book."

Daily Telegraph.--"A very pretty and clever little volume.... Altogether the impression her
excellent book gives is that the Land of the Sagas is more interesting than many a stock holiday
resort, while many tourists should be obliged to Mrs. Alec Tweedie for showing how conveniently
Iceland may be explored with the help of a little courage and cheerfulness."

Liverpool Daily Post.--"The author has a pleasant unaffected way of relating her experiences
which at once establishes her on the most friendly relation with the reader. To powers of acute
observation and graphic description, she adds a sympathetic appreciation of Nature, which enables
her to convey a vivid idea of the scenery and the people, the local colour, that is to say,
of this little visited region."

Spectator.--"This brightly written little book will amuse the reader--and perhaps induce him
to undertake a like excursion. The authoress learnt to ride like a man, and found the fatigue
of a long journey much lightened in consequence."

Lady's Pictorial.--"Another of those fresh, bright, unaffected little books of travel.... Altogether
a very agreeable little book, and I congratulate Mrs. Tweedie on her pluck and perseverance."

Graphic.--"A pleasant volume of travelling impressions, given in unpretending and workmanlike
style by the author. A great deal of useful information and shrewd observation is brought together
in compact space."

Pictorial World.--"A lively and interesting record of an enterprising and plucky young lady's
ride in Iceland.... We congratulate our authoress on the pluck and endurance with which she
undertook her journey to Ultima Thule, and upon the very interesting book which is the result."

Illustrated London News.--"Mrs. Alec Tweedie is the authoress of this pleasing and instructive
account of a tour round this remote island in the Arctic Circle.... She rode her pony, in a
masculine attitude, to the Geysers and back, 160 miles, in four days, which, for a lady, seems
to us to be a remarkable feat."

Morning Post.--"This account of an autumn trip to an unhackneyed land is much better worth
reading than many more pretentious volumes.... The authoress has an eye for what is worth seeing,
a happy knack of graphic description, and a literary style which is commendably free from adjectival
exuberance."

Manchester Guardian.--"Mrs. A. Tweedie's account of her trip is so bright and lively that the
novelty of her experience is rendered additionally interesting by her manner of describing
it.... The authoress interests us from first to last, and her style is altogether free from
affectation of fine writing ... her book, indeed, is both instructive and amusing."

St. James's Gazette.--" ... Many interesting details of the history and social life of the
Icelanders are set forth in a pleasantly chatty style by the spirited and observant lady who
rode 160 miles like a man."

Saturday Review.--" ... people intent on new fields of travel; Mrs. Tweedie's lively account
of a voyage to Iceland, and its agreeable and entirely successful results, ought to inspire
adventurous ladies to follow her example.... Mrs. Tweedie describes the wonders of the land
with a keen appreciation, and has not forgotten to supply many useful hints."

Land and Water.--"In this most thoroughly enjoyable volume, bright, chatty, piquant, and informant,
we learn the story of the travelling experiences, and occasional droll doings, of five young
tourists.... Of all their little tours Mrs. A. Tweedie has something interesting and diverting
to narrate. She managed to see most of the noteworthy objects and remarkable places, and her
descriptions of them are admirably faithful and picturesque."

Truth.--"I can thoroughly recommend 'A Girl's Ride in Iceland.' It is a bright, direct, unaffected,
and charming little work."

       *       *       *       *       *

BY THE SAME AUTHOR.

"THE OBERAMMERGAU PASSION PLAY."

Times.--"'The Oberammergau Passion Play,' by Mrs. Alec Tweedie, will be a most useful pocket
companion to tourists and pilgrims who hope to attend the representation."

Illustrated London News.--" ... The authoress is an unaffected and agreeable writer, as well
as a lively observer."

Home News.--"This admirable little volume is not bulky, but contains the essence of all an
average person wants to know."

Scotsman.--"Mrs. Alec Tweedie's book is very readable. It is written with brevity, and a brightness
of style that is always interesting."

Lady's Pictorial.--"The clever author of that capital little work 'A Girl's Ride in Iceland,'
has just published a graphic volume of the Passion Play.... I very heartily recommend this
admirable account."

Pall Mall Gazette.--"Mrs. Tweedie writes a very pleasant account of her visit to Oberammergau."

Era.--"The agreeable authoress has given us, in her straightforward simple style, a terse,
unaffected, and picturesque description of her visit to the Passion Play."

Birmingham Daily Post.--" ... Pleasantly, brightly, and agreeably written."

Liverpool Daily Post.--"Mrs. Alec Tweedie has already shown us her courage as a traveller in
untrodden regions, and her skill in describing her experiences, and her last literary production
has the same charm of unaffected style."

+--------------------Transcriber's Note-----------------------+ |                         
| | Minor punctuation and printing errors have been corrected.  | |                       
| | Punctuation, hyphenation and location spelling conventions  | | differ by text authorship.
This transcription retains the   | | internally consistent conventions used in the preface,
body,| | appendix and advertisements.                                | |                  
| | Four pages of advertisements printed at the beginning of the| | of the book are placed
at the end.                          | |                                                  
| | Four footnotes appear in the text, two short footnotes are  | | embedded in place.    
| |                                                             | +-------------------------------------------------------------+

