[Footnote 3: It is not so very "singular," when we remember that the bishops were what Lord
Campbell and Mr. Macauley call "judiciously chosen" by William. On this point a cotemporary
remarks, "Some steps have been made, and large ones too, towards a Scotch reformation, by suspending
and ejecting the chief and most zealous of our bishops, and others of the higher clergy; and
by advancing, upon all vacancies of sees and dignities, ecclesiastical men of notoriously Presbyterian,
or, which is worse, of Erastian principles. These are the ministerial ways of undermining Episcopacy;
and when to the seven notorious ones shall be added more, upon the approaching deprivation,
they will make a majority; and then we may expect the new model of a church to be perfected."
(Somers' Tracts, vol. x. p. 368.) Until Atterbury, there were few High Church Bishops in Queen
Anne's reign in 1710. Burnet singles out the Bishop of Chester: "for he seemed resolved to
distinguish himself as a zealot for that which is called High Church."--Hist. Own Time, vol.
iv. p. 260.]

[Footnote 4: Of Izaak Walton his biographer, Sir John Hawkins, writing in 1760, says, "he was
a friend to a hierarchy, or, as we should now call such a one, a High Churchman."]

       *       *       *       *       *

CONCLUDING NOTES ON SEVERAL MISUNDERSTOOD WORDS.

(Continued from Vol. vii., p. 568.)

Not being minded to broach any fresh matter in "N. & Q.," I shall now only crave room to clear
off an old score, lest I should leave myself open to the imputation of having cast that in
the teeth of a numerous body of men which might, for aught they would know to the contrary,
be as truly laid in my own dish. In No. 189., p. 567., I affirmed that the handling of a passage
in Cymbeline, there quoted, had betrayed an amount of obtuseness in the commentators which
would be discreditable in a third-form schoolboy. To substantiate that assertion, and rescue
the disputed word "Britaine" henceforth for ever from the rash tampering of the meddlesome
sciolist, I beg to advertise the ingenuous reader that the clause,--

    "For being now a favourer to the Britaine,"

is in apposition with Death, not with Posthumus Leonatus. In a note
appended to this censure, referring to another passage from L. L. L., I
averred that MR. COLLIER had corrupted it by chancing the singular verb
dies into the plural die (this too done, under plea of editorial
licence, without warning to the reader), and that such corruption had
abstracted the true key to the right construction. To make good this last
position, two things I must do first, cite the whole passage, without
change of letter or tittle, as it stands in the Folios '23 and '32; next,
show the trivial and vulgar use of "contents" as a singular noun.
                          Act IV. p. 141.

With this the Folio '32 exactly corresponds, save that the speaker is Prin., not Qu.; ore-rules
is written as two words without the hyphen, and strives for striues. I have been thus precise,
because criticism is to me not "a game," nor admissive of cogging and falsification.

I must now show the hackneyed use of contents as a singular noun. An anonymous correspondent
of "N. & Q." has already pointed out one in Measure for Measure, Act IV. Sc. 2.:

    "Duke. The contents of this is the returne of the Duke."

Another:

    "This is the contents thereof."--Calvin's 82nd Sermon upon Job, p.
    419., Golding's translation.

Another:

    "After this were articles of peace propounded, y^e contents wherof
    was, that he should departe out of Asia."--The 31st Booke of Justine,
    fol. 139., Golding's translation of Justin's Trogus Pompeius.

Another:

    "Plinie writeth hereof an excellent letter, the contents whereof is,
    that this ladie, mistrusting her husband, was condemned to die,"
    &c.--Historicall Meditations, lib. iii. chap. xi. p. 178. Written in
    Latin by P. Camerarius, and done into English by John Molle, Esq.:
    London, 1621.

Another:

    "The contents whereof is this."--Id., lib. v. chap. vi. p. 342.

Another:

    "Therefore George, being led with an heroicall disdaine, and
    nevertheless giuing the bridle beyond moderation to his anger,
    vnderstanding that Albert was come to Newstad, resolued with himselfe
    (without acquainting any bodie) to write a letter vnto him, the
    contents whereof was," &c.--Id., lib. v. chap. xii. p. 366.

If the reader wants more examples, let him give himself the trouble to open the first book
that comes to hand, and I dare say the perusal of a dozen pages will supply some; yet have
we two editors of Shakspeare, Johnson and Collier, so unacquainted with the usage of their
own tongue, and the universal logic of thought, as not to know that a word like contents, according
as it is understood collectively or distributively, may be, and, as we have just seen, in fact
is, treated as a singular or plural; that, I say, contents taken severally, every content,
or in gross, the whole mass, is respectively plural or singular. It was therefore optional
with Shakspeare to employ the word either as a singular or plural, but not in the same sentence
to do both: here, however, he was tied {121} to the singular, for, wanting a rhyme to contents,
the nominative to presents must be singular, and that nominative was the pronoun of contents.
Since, therefore, the plural die and the singular it could not both be referable to the same
noun contents, by silently substituting die for dies, MR. COLLIER has blinded his reader and
wronged his author. The purport of the passage amounts to this: the contents, or structure
(to wit, of the show to be exhibited), breaks down in the performer's zeal to the subject which
it presents. Johnson very properly adduces a much happier expression of the same thought from
A Midsummer Night's Dreame:

 "Hip. I love not to see wretchedness o'ercharged;
  And duty in his service perishing."

The reader cannot fail to have observed the faultless punctuation of the Folios in the forecited
passage, and I think concur with me, that like many, ay, most others, all it craves at the
hands of editors and commentators is, to be left alone. The last two lines ask for no explanation
even to the blankest mind. Words like contents are by no means rare in English. We have tidings
and news, both singular and plural. MR. COLLIER himself rebukes Malone for his ignorance of
such usage of the latter word. If it be said that these two examples have no singular form,
whereas contents has, there is means, at any rate precisely analogous. On the other hand, so
capricious is language, in defiance of the logic of thought, we have, if I may so term it,
a merely auricular plural, in the word corpse referred to a single carcase.

I should here close my account with "N. & Q." were it not that I have an act of justice to
perform. When I first lighted upon the two examples of chaumbre in Udall, I thought, as we
say in this country, it was a good "fundlas," and regarded it as my own property. It now appears
to be but a waif or stray; therefore, suum cuique, I cheerfully resign the credit of it to
MR. SINGER, the rightful proprietary. Proffering them for the inspection of learned and unlearned,
I of course foresaw that speedy sentence would be pronounced by that division, whose judgment,
lying ebb and close to the surface, must needs first reach the light. I know no more appropriate
mode of requiting the handsome manner in which MR. SINGER has been pleased to speak of my trifling
contributions to "N. & Q.," than by asking him, with all the modesty of which I am master,
to reconsider the passage in Romeo and Juliet; for though his substitution (rumourers vice
runawayes) may, I think, clearly take the wall of any of its rivals, yet, believing that Juliet
invokes a darkness to shroud her lover, under cover of which even the fugitive from justice
might snatch a wink of sleep, I must for my own part, as usual, still adhere to the authentic text.

W. R. ARROWSMITH.

P. S.--In answer to a Bloomsbury Querist (Vol. viii., p. 44.), I crave leave to say that I
never have met with the verb perceyuer except in Hawes, loc. cit.; and I gave the latest use
that I could call to mind of the noun in my paper on that word. Unhappily I never make notes,
but rely entirely on a somewhat retentive memory; therefore the instances that occur on the
spur of the moment are not always the most apposite that might be selected for the purpose
of illustration. If, however, he will take the trouble to refer to a little book, consisting
of no more than 448 pages, published in 1576, and entitled A Panoplie of Epistles, or a Looking-glasse
for the Unlearned, by Abraham Flemming, he will find no fewer than nine examples, namely, at
pp. 25. 144. 178. 253. 277. 285. (twice in the same page) 333. 382. It excites surprise that
the word never, as far as I am aware, occurs in any of the voluminous works of Sir Thomas More,
nor in any of the theological productions of the Reformers.

With respect to speare, the orthography varies, as spere, sperr, sparr, unspar; but in the
Prologue to Troilus and Cressida, sperre is Theobald's correction of stirre, in Folios '23
and '32. Let me add, what I had forgotten at the time, that another instance of budde intransitive,
to bend, occurs at p. 105. of The Life of Faith in Death, by Samuel Ward, preacher of Ipswich,
London, 1622. Also another, and a very significant one, of the phrase to have on the hip, in
Fuller's Historie of the Holy Warre, Cambridge, 1647:

    "Arnulphus was as quiet as a lambe, and durst never challenge his
    interest in Jerusalem from Godfrey's donation; as fearing to wrestle
    with the king, who had him on the hip, and could out him at pleasure
    for his bad manners."--Book ii. chap. viii. p. 55.

In my note on the word trash, I said (somewhat too peremptorily) that overtop was not even
a hunting term (Vol. vii., p. 567.). At the moment I had forgotten the following passage:

    "Therefore I would perswade all lovers of hunting to get two or three
    couple of tryed hounds, and once or twice a week to follow after them a
    train-scent; and when he is able to top them on all sorts of earth,
    and to endure heats and colds stoutly, then he may the better relie on
    his speed and toughness."--The Hunting-horse, chap. vii. p. 71.,
    Oxford, 1685.

       *       *       *       *       *

SNEEZING AN OMEN AND A DEITY.

In the Odyssey, xvii. 541-7., we have, imitating the hexameters, the following passage:

 "Thus Penelope spake. Then quickly Telemachus sneez'd loud,
  Sounding around all the building: his mother, with smiles at her son,
      said,
  Swiftly addressing her rapid and high-toned words to Eumæus,
  {122}
 'Go then directly, Eumæus, and call to my presence the strange guest.
  See'st thou not that my son, ev'ry word I have spoken hath sneez'd
      at?[5]
  Thus portentous, betok'ning the fate of my hateful suitors,
  All whom death and destruction await by a doom irreversive.'"

Dionysius Halicarnassus, on Homer's poetry (s. 24.), says, sneezing was considered by that
poet as a good sign ([Greek: sumbolon agathon]); and from the Anthology (lib. ii.) the words
[Greek: oude legei, Zeu sôson, ean ptarêi], show that it was proper to exclaim "God bless you!"
when any one sneezed.

Aristotle, in the Problems (xxxiii. 7.), inquires why sneezing is reckoned a God ([Greek: dia
ti ton men ptarmon, theon hêgoumetha einai]); to which he suggests, that it may be because
it comes from the head, the most divine part about us ([Greek: theiotatou tôn peri hêmas]).
Persons having the inclination, but not the power to sneeze, should look at the sun, for reasons
he assigns in Problems (xxxiii. 4.).

Plutarch, on the Dæmon of Socrates (s. 11.), states the opinion which some persons had formed,
that Socrates' dæmon was nothing else than the sneezing either of himself or others. Thus,
if any one sneezed at his right hand, either before or behind him, he pursued any step he had
begun; but sneezing at his left hand caused him to desist from his formed purpose. He adds
something as to different kinds of sneezing. To sneeze twice was usual in Aristotle's time;
but once, or more than twice, was uncommon (Prob. xxxiii. 3.).

Petronius (Satyr. c. 98.) notices the "blessing" in the following passage:

    "Giton collectione spiritus plenus, ter continuo ita sternutavit, ut
    grabatum concuteret. Ad quem motum Eumolpus conversus, salvere Gitona
    jubet."

T. J. BUCKTON.

Birmingham.

[Footnote 5: The practice of snuff-taking has made the sneezing at anything a mark of contempt,
in these degenerate days.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ABUSES OF HACKNEY COACHES.

    [The following proclamation on this subject is of interest at the
    present moment.]

By the King.

  Charles R.

Whereas the excessive number of Hackney Coaches, and Coach Horses, in and about the Cities
of London and Westminster, and the Suburbs thereof, are found to be a common nuisance to the
Publique Damage of Our People by reason of their rude and disorderly standing and passing to
and fro, in and about our said Cities and Suburbs, the Streets and Highways being thereby pestred
and made impassable, the Pavements broken up, and the Common Passages obstructed and become
dangerous, Our Peace violated, and sundry other mischiefs and evils occasioned:

We, taking into Our Princely consideration these apparent Inconveniences, and resolving that
a speedy remedy be applied to meet with, and redress them for the future, do, by and with the
advice of our Privy Council, publish Our Royal Will and Pleasure to be, and we do by this Our
Proclamation expressly charge and command, That no Person or Persons, of what Estate, Degree,
or Quality whatsoever, keeping or using any Hackney Coaches, or Coach Horses, do, from and
after the Sixth day of November next, permit or suffer the said Coaches and Horses, or any
of them, to stand or remain in any the Streets or Passages in or about Our said Cities either
of London or Westminster, or the Suburbs belonging to either of them, to be there hired; but
that they and every of them keep their said Coaches and Horses within their respective Coach-houses,
Stables, and Yards (whither such Persons as desire to hire the same may resort for that purpose),
upon pain of Our high displeasure, and such Forfeitures, Pains, and Penalties as may be inflicted
for the Contempt of Our Royal Commands in the Premises, whereof we shall expect a strict Accompt.

And for the due execution of Our Pleasure herein, We do further charge and command the Lord
Mayor and Aldermen of Our City of London, That they in their several Wards, and Our Justices
of Peace within Our said Cities of London and Westminster, and the Liberties and Suburbs thereof,
and all other Our Officers and Ministers of Justice, to whom it appertaineth, do take especial
care in their respective Limits that this Our Command be duly observed, and that they from
time to time return the names of all those who shall wilfully offend in the Premises, to Our
Privy Council, and to the end they may be proceeded against by Indictments and Presentments
for the Nuisance, and otherwise according to the severity of the Law and Demerits of the Offenders.

Given at Our Court at Whitehall the 18th day of October in the 12th year of Our Reign.

GOD SAVE THE KING.

