     We the Subscribers being Inhabitants of the Extream Parts of
     Groton Lancaster and Harvard as allso the Proprietors of the Land
     belonging to the Town of Stow (which Land is Scituate, Lying and
     being Between the Towns above said Namely Groton Lancaster and
     Harvard) Do Covenant and Promise to and with Each other And We Do
     Hereby of our own Free Will and Motion In the Exercise of Love and
     Charity Towards one another with Mutual Consent in the strongest
     Manner Binding our Selves the Subscribers each and every of us
     Conjointly one to another (for the Gosples Sake) Firmly Covenanting
     and Promising to and with Each other that we will as Speedely as
     may be with Conveniency Petition the Several Towns to which we
     Respectively belong and Likewise the Great and General Court That
     we may be Erected or Incorporated into a Destinct and separate
     Township of our Selves with those Lands within the Bounds and
     Limits Here after Described viz Beginning at the River called
     Lancaster [Nashua] River at the turning of Sd River Below the Brige
     called John Whits Brige & Runing Northerly to Hell Pond and on
     Still to the Line Betwixt Harvard and Groton Including John Farwell
     then to Coyecus Brook Leaveing the Mills and Down Said Brook to the
     River and down Said River to the Rye ford way then Runing Westerly
     to the Northerly End of Horse Pond & so on to Luningburg Line,
     Including Robert Henry & Daniel Page and then Runing Southerly
     Extendig Beyound Luningburg So far Into Lancaster as that Running
     Easterly the Place on which Ralph Kindal formerly Lived Shall be
     Included and so on Running Easterly to the Turn in the River first
     mentioned

     Moreover we Do Covenant Promise and Engage Truly and Faithfully
     that will Consent to and Justifie any Petition that Shall be
     Prefered in our names and behalf to our Respective Towns and to the
     Great & General Court for the Ends and Purposes above Mentioned

     Furthermore we Do Covenant Promise and Engage as above that we will
     advance money for and Pay all Such Reasonable and necessary Charges
     that may arise in the Prosecuting and Obtaining our Said Petitions
     and that we will Each and Every of us Respectively Endever to
     Promote and Maintain Peace Unity Concord and Good Agreement
     amoungst our Selves as Becometh Christians

     And now haveing thus Covenanted as above Said We Do Each and Every
     one of us who have Hereunto Subscribed Protest and Declare that
     Every Article and Parigraph and Thing Containd in the above Writen
     Shall be Absolutely and Unacceptionably Binding in Manner and form
     as above Declared and Shall So Continue upon and Against Each and
     Every one of us untill we are Erected or Incorporated Into a
     Township as above said or that Provedance Shall Remove us by Death
     or Otherways any thing to the Contrary Notwithstanding

     Witness our Hands the Eight Day of December one Thousand Seven
     Hundred and Fourty Seven and in the Twentieth Year Of His Majesties
     Reign Georg the Secund King &c

      Harvard

    Richard hall
    Jon'n Bigelow
    Joseph Hutchins
    Simeon Farnsworth
    Timothy hall
    Phenihas Farnsworth
    Amos Russll
    Johnathan--Read (His mark)
    Jonathan Read iu
    Abijah Willard

      Groton
    Samuel Hazen
    Joseph Preist
    Samell flood
    John pearce
    Charles Richards
    Daniel Page
    John Longley jn'r
    Abijah Willard
    Manasser Divoll
    John Osgood
    Abijah Frost
    John Peirce hous rite

      Lancaster
    Henry Haskell
    John Nicholls
    Thomas Wright
    William Willard
    Joshua Johnson
    Daniel Willard
    Joseph Priest
    William Farmer
    Joseph Bond
    Henry Willard
    Benjamin Willard
    Jacob Houghton
    Corp Elias Sawyer
    Amos Am Atherton (his mark)

      Stow
    John Houghton Ju
    John Sampson
    Joseph Brown
    Hannah Brown
    Samuel Randal
    Benjamin Samson

    [Massachusetts Archives, CXV., 220-222.]

Hell Pond, mentioned in this covenant, is situated in the northwest part of Harvard, and so
called "from its amazing depth," says the Reverend Peter Whitney, in the History of Worcester
County (page 158).

Two years after this covenant was signed, another attempt was made to divide the town, but
it did not succeed. The lines of the proposed township included nearly the same territory as
the present ones of Shirley. The following references to the scheme are found, under their
respective dates, in the printed Journal of the House of Representatives:--

     A Petition of sundry Inhabitants of Groton and Lunenburg,
     praying they may be erected into a distinct and seperate Township
     or Precinct, agreable to the Plan therewith exhibited, for the
     Reasons mentioned. In Council
     December 29th 1749. Read again, with the Answer of the Town of
     Lunenburg, and Ordered, That the Consideration of this Petition
     be refer'd to the second Wednesday of the next Sitting of this
     Court. Sent down for Concurrence.

     With a Petition from sundry Inhabitants of Lunenburg, praying to
     be set off from said Town of Leominster. Pass'd in Council, viz
     In Council December 29th 1749. In Council April 4th
     1750.

     [Journal of the House of Representatives (page 214), April 5,
     1750.]

     Joseph Wilder, Esq., brought down the Report of a Committee of
     both Houses, on the Petition of John Whitney, and others, as
     entred the 30th of November last, and refer'd. Signed James
     Minott, per Order.

     Pass'd in Council, viz. In Council June 21, 1750. Read and
     Voted, That this Report be not accepted, and that the Petition of
     John Whitney and others therein refer'd to, be accordingly
     dismiss'd, and that the Petitioners pay the Charge of the
     Committee.

     Send down for Concurrence. Read and concur'd.

     [Journal of the House of Representatives (page 41), June 22, 1750.]

     A Petition of sundry Inhabitants of the westerly Part of Groton,
     and the easterly Part of Lunenburg, praying that their Memorial
     and Report thereon, which was dismiss'd the 22'd of June last,
     may be revived and reconsidered, for the Reasons mentioned.

     Read and Ordered, That Mr. Turner, Mr. Tyng, and Major
     Jones with such as the honourable Board shall join, be a
     Committee to take this Petition under Consideration, and report
     what they judge proper to be done thereon. Sent up for Concurrence.

     [Journal of the House of Representatives (pages 76, 77), October 3,
     1750.]

     John Greenleafe, Esq.; brought down the Petition of sundry
     Inhabitants of Groton and Lunenburg, as entred the 3d Currant,
     and referr'd. Pass'd in Council, viz. In Council October 3d
     1750. Read and nonconcur'd, and Ordered, That this Petition be
     dismiss'd.

     Sent down for Concurrence.

     Read and Ordered, That the Petition lie on the Table.

     [Journal of the House of Representatives (page 64), October 9,
     1751.]

     Ordered, That the Petition of John Whitney and others of the
     Southwesterly Part of Groton, lie upon the Table.

     [Journal of the House of Representatives (page 81), January 3,
     1752.]

     The Memorial of John Whitney and others, as entred October 9th
     1751, Inhabitants of the Southwesterly Part of Groton and the
     Eastwardly Part of Lunenberg, setting forth that in November
     1749, they preferred a Petition to this Court, praying to be set
     off from the Towns to which they belong, and made into a distant
     [distinct?] and seperate Town and Parish, for the Reasons therein
     mentioned; praying that the aforesaid Memorial and Petition, with
     the Report of the said Committee thereon, and all the Papers
     thereto belonging, may be revived, and again taken into
     consideration.

     Read again, and the Question was put, Whether the Prayer of the
     Petition should be so far granted as that the petition and Papers
     accompanying it should be revived?

     It pass'd in the Negative. And Voted, That the Memorial be
     dismiss'd.

     [Journal of the House of Representatives (page 92), January 9,
     1753.]

The discussion in regard to the division of the town resulted in setting off the district of
Shirley, on January 5, 1753, three months before the district of Pepperell was formed. In the
Act of Incorporation the name was left blank, as it was in the one incorporating Pepperell,
and "Shirley" was filled in at the time of its engrossment. It was so named after William Shirley,
the governor of the province at that period. It never was incorporated specifically as a town,
but became one by a general Act of the Legislature, passed on March 23, 1786.

The act for establishing the district of Shirley is as follows:--

     Anno Regni Regis Georgii Secundi Vicesimo Sexto.

     An Act for dividing the Town of Groton and making a District by the
     Name of....

     Whereas the Inhabitants of the Southwesterly part of the Town of
     Groton by Reason of the Difficulties they labour under being remote
     from the place of the publick worship of God have addressed this
     Court to be Sett off a Separate District whereunto the Inhabitants
     of Said Town have Manifested their Consent Be it therefore enacted
     by the Lieutenant Governour Council and House of Representatives
     that the Southwestwardly part of the Town of Groton Comprehended
     within the following boundaries viz begining at the the [sic]
     mouth of Squanacook River where it runs into Lancaster [Nashua]
     River from thence up Said Lancaster River till it Comes to Land
     belonging to the Township of Stow thence Westwardly bounding
     Southwardly to said Stow Land tilll it comes to the Southwest
     Corner of the Township of Groton thence Northwardly bounding
     westwardly to Luningburgh and Townsend to Squanacook River
     afores'd thence down said River and Joyning thereto to the mouth
     thereof being the first bound--Be and hereby is Sett off from the
     said Town of Groton and Erected into a Separate and Distinct
     District by the name of ... and that the Inhabitants thereof be and
     hereby are Vested with all the powers priviledges and Immunities
     which the Inhabitants of any Town within this Province do or by law
     ought to Enjoy Excepting only the Priviledge of choosing a
     Representative to represent them in the Great & General Court, in
     choosing of whom the Inhabitants of Said District Shall Joyn with
     the Inhabitants of the Town of Groton, as heretofore has been
     Usual, & also in paying said Representative

     Provided nevertheless the Said District Shall pay their
     proportionable part of all such Town County Parish and Province
     Charges as are already Assessed upon the Town of Groton in like
     manner as though this Act had never been made.

On June 3, 1771, thirty years after Groton Gore had been lost by the running of the provincial
line, the proprietors of the town held a meeting, and appointed Lieutenant Josiah Sawtell,
Colonel John Bulkley, and Lieutenant Nathaniel Parker, a committee to petition the General
Court for a grant of land to make up for this loss. They presented the matter to that body
on June 7, and the following entry in the records gives the result:--

     The Committee on the Petition of Josiah Sartel, and others,
     reported.

     Read and accepted, and Whereas it appears to this Court, That the
     Proprietors aforesaid, had a Grant made to them by the General
     Court in April 1735, of Ten Thousand, Eight Hundred Acres of
     Land, in Consideration of Land taken from said Groton by
     Littleton, Major Willard and Read's Farms being prior Grants,
     and for their extraordinary Suffering in the former Indian Wars and
     in June 1736 said Grant was confirmed to said Proprietors, since
     which Time, the said Proprietors have been entirely dispossessed of
     said Land by the running of the Line between this Province and
     New-Hampshire: And whereas it appears there has been no
     Compensation made to the said Proprietors of Groton, for the
     Lands lost as aforesaid, excepting Three Thousand Acres granted in
     November last, to James Prescot, William Prescot, and Oliver
     Prescot for their Proportion thereof. Therefore Resolved, That
     in Lieu thereof, there be granted to the Proprietors of Groton,
     their Heirs and Assigns forever, Seven Thousand and Eight Hundred
     Acres of the unappropriated Lands belonging to this Province, in
     the Western Part of the Province, to be layed out adjoining to some
     former Grant, and that they return a Plan thereof, taken by a
     Surveyor and Chainmen under Oath into the Secretary's Office,
     within twelve Months for Confirmation.

     Sent up for Concurrence.

     [Journal of the House of Representatives (page 44), June 13, 1771.]

These conditions, as recommended by the report of the committee, appear to have been fulfilled,
and a grant was accordingly made. It lay on the eastern border of Berkshire county, just south
of the central part, and was described as follows:--

     The Committee on a Plan of a Tract of Land granted to the
     Proprietors of Groton, reported.

     Read and accepted, and Resolved, That the Plan hereunto annexed,
     containing three Thousand nine Hundred and sixty Acres of Province
     Land, laid out in Part to satisfy a Grant made by the Great and
     General Court at their Sessions in June 1771, to the Proprietors
     of Groton, in Lieu of Land they lost by the late running of the
     New-Hampshire Line, as mention'd in their Petition, laid out in
     the County of Berkshire, and is bounded as followeth, viz.
     Beginning at a Burch Tree and Stones laid round it the Southwest
     Corner of Tyringham-Equivalent Lands standing on the East Branch
     of Farmington River; then North eighteen Degrees East in the West
     Line of said Equivalent five Hundred and sixty-one Rods to a
     small Beach Tree and Stones laid round it, which Tree is the
     Southeast Corner of a Grant of Land called Woolcut's Grant; then
     running West eighteen Degrees North in the South Line of said Grant
     two Hundred and forty Rods to a Beach Tree marked I.W. and Stones
     laid round it, which is the Southwest Corner of said Grant; then
     running North eighteen Degrees East in the West Line of said Grant
     four Hundred Rods to a Heap of Stones which is the Northwest Corner
     of said Grant; then running East eighteen Degrees South two Hundred
     and forty Rods in the North Line of said Grant to a large Hemlock
     Tree and Stones laid round it, which is the Northeast Corner of
     said Grant; it is also the Northwest Corner of said Equivalent,
     and the Southwest Corner of a Grant called Taylors Grant; then
     running North eighteen Degrees East one Hundred and sixty Rods in
     the West Line of said Taylors Grant to the Northwest Corner of
     the same; then running East nine Degrees South in the Line of said
     Taylors Grant eight Hundred Rods to a Stake and Stones standing
     in the West Line of Blanford, marked W.T. then running North
     eighteen Degrees East in said Blanford West Line five Hundred and
     thirty Rods to a Beach Tree and Stones laid round it which is the
     Northwest Corner of said Blanford; then running East ten Degrees
     South forty-two Rods in the North Line of said Blanford to a
     Stake and Stones which is the Southwest Corner of Merryfield;
     then running North ten Degrees East in said Merryfield West Line
     three Hundred and three Rods to a Heap of Stones the Southeast
     Corner of Becket; then running West two Degrees South in said
     Becket South Line four Hundred and twenty-six Rods to the
     Northeast Corner of a Grant of Land called Belcher's Grant; then
     running South in the East Line of said Belchers Grant two Hundred
     and sixteen Rods to a small Maple Tree marked T.R. which is the
     Northwest Corner of a Grant of Land called Rand's Grant; then
     running East in the North Line of said Rand's Grant two Hundred
     and fifty Rods to a Hemlock Pole and Stones laid round it, which is
     the Northeast Corner of said Rand's Grant; then running South in
     the East Line of said Rand's Grant three Hundred and thirty-one
     Rods to a Hemlock Tree marked and Stones laid round it, which is
     the Southeast Corner of said Rand's Grant; then running West in
     the South Line of said Rand's Grant two Hundred and fifty Rods to
     a Beach Pole marked T.R. the Southwest Corner of said Rand's
     Grant; then running North in the West Line of said Rand's Grant
     eighty-three Rods to the Southeast Corner of said Belcher's
     Grant; then running West bounding North three Hundred and
     forty-eight on said Belcher's Grant and four Hundred and
     fifty-three Rods on a Grant called Chandler's Grant, then running
     North on the West Line of said Chandler's Grant four Hundred and
     sixty to said Becket's South Line; then running West in said
     Becket South Line twenty Rods to a Stake and Stones the North
     West Corner of additional Lands belonging to the Four Housatonick
     Townships; then running South two Degrees West one Thousand four
     Hundred and eighty-eight Rods in the East Line of said additional
     Lands to the Place where the said East Line crosses said
     Farmington River; then Southerly or down Stream three Hundred and
     thirty Rods to the first Bounds, bounding Westerly on said River,
     be accepted, and is hereby accepted and confirmed unto the
     Proprietors of Groton aforesaid, their Heirs and Assigns forever.
     Provided the same doth not exceed the Quantity aforementioned,
     nor interfere with any former Grant.

     Sent up for Concurrence.

     [Journal of the House of Representatives (pages 182, 183). April
     24, 1772.]

I am unable to say how or when this territory was disposed of by the proprietors. Seven or
eight years before this time, James, William, and Oliver Prescott, acting for themselves, had
petitioned the General Court for a tract of land to make up their own losses. They were the
sons of the Honorable Benjamin Prescott, through whose influence and agency the original Groton
Gore was granted, and they were also the largest proprietors of the town. The following extracts
from the Journal of the House relate to their application:--

     A Petition of James Prescot, and others, Children and Heirs of
     Benjamin Prescot, late of Groton, Esq; deceased, praying a
     Grant of the unappropriated Lands of this Province, in
     consideration of sundry Tracts which they have lost by the late
     running of the Line between this Government and New-Hampshire.

     Read and committed to Col. Clap, Col. Nickols, Col. Williams
     of Roxbury, Col. Buckminster, and Mr. Lancaster, to consider
     and Report.

     [Journal of the House of Representatives (page 187), January 12,
     1764.]

On February 3, 1764, this petition was put over to the May Session, but I do not find that
it came up for consideration at that time. It does not appear again for some years.

     A Petition of James Prescot, Esq; and others, praying that a
     Grant of Land may be made them in Lieu of a former Grant, which
     falls within the New-Hampshire Line.

     [Journal of the House of Representatives (page 129), November 2,
     1770.]

This petition was referred to a committee consisting of Dr. Samuel Holten, of Danvers, Colonel
Joseph Gerrish, of Newbury, and Mr. Joshua Bigelow, of Worcester.

     The Committee on the Petition of James Prescot, Esq; and others,
     reported.

     Read and accepted, and Resolved, That in Lieu of Lands mentioned
     in the Petition, there be granted to the Petitioners, their Heirs
     and Assigns, Four Thousand Four Hundred Acres of the unappropriated
     Lands belonging to the Province, to be laid out in the Westerly
     Part thereof, adjoining to some former Grants, provided they can
     find the same; or Five Thousand Eight Hundred and Eighty Acres of
     the unappropriated Lands lying on the Easterly side of Saco
     River; it being their Proportion in said Grant: And return a Plan
     thereof taken by a Surveyor and Chainman under Oath, into the
     Secretary's Office within Twelve Months.

     Sent up for Concurrence.

     [Journal of the House of Representatives (page 156), November 14,
     1770.]

The Committee appointed to consider the Plan of two Tracts of Land granted to James Prescot,
Esq; and others, reported.

     Read and accepted. Resolved, That both the above Plans, the one
     containing Four Thousand one Hundred and thirty Acres, the other
     containing two Hundred and seventy Acres, delineated and described
     as is set forth by the Surveyor in the Description thereof hereunto
     annexed, be accepted, and hereby is confirmed to James Prescot,
     Esq; and others named in their Petition, and to their Heirs and
     Assigns in Lieu of and full Satisfaction for Four Thousand four
     Hundred Acres of Land lost by the late running of the Line between
     this Province and New-Hampshire, as mention'd in a Grant made by
     both Houses of the Assembly, A.D. 1765, but not consented to by the
     Governor. Provided both said Plans together do not exceed the
     Quantity of Four Thousand four Hundred Acres, nor interfere with
     any former Grant.

     Sent up for Concurrence.

     [Journal of the House of Representatives (page 73), June 22, 1771.]

It is evident from these reports that the Prescott brothers took the forty-four hundred acres
in the westerly part of the province, rather than the fifty-eight hundred and eighty acres
on the easterly side of the Saco river, though I have been unable to identify, beyond a doubt,
the tract of land thus granted. I am inclined to think however, that it is the one mentioned
in the Memorial of the One Hundredth Anniversary of the Incorporation of Middlefield, Massachusetts,
August 15, 1883. The town is situated on the westerly border of Hampshire County,--forming
a jog into Berkshire,--and was made up in part of Prescott's Grant. A map is given in the "Memorial"
volume (page 16) which shows that the Grant was originally in Berkshire county, very near to
the tract of land given to the proprietors of Groton.

Professor Edward P. Smith, of Worcester, delivered an historical address on the occasion of
the anniversary, and he says:--

     Prescott's Grant, the nucleus of the town, appears as a large
     quadrilateral, containing more than a thousand acres in the north
     and west part of the town. Who the Prescott was to whom the grant
     was made is not known, further than that he must have been some one
     who had rendered military or other services to the State. That he
     was the Prescott who commanded at Bunker Hill is, indeed, possible;
     but, as the grant was probably made before the Revolutionary War,
     that supposition seems hardly tenable. (Page 15.)

By an act of the General Court, passed February 25, 1793, a large section of territory was
taken from Groton and annexed to Dunstable. This change produced a very irregular boundary
between the two towns, and made, according to Butler's History of Groton (page 66), more than
eighty angles in the line, causing much inconvenience. The following copy from the "Laws of
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts" gives the names of the families thus transferred:--

     An Act to set off Caleb Woods, and others, from Groton, and to
     annex them to Dunstable.
     Provided, nevertheless, That the persons above-mentioned shall pay
     all taxes that have been legally assessed on them by said
     Groton, in the same manner as if this Act had never been passed.

     [This act passed February 25, 1793.]

The zigzag line caused by this act was somewhat modified by the two following ones, passed
at different times a few years later. I think that the very irregular boundary between the
two towns, with its eighty-six angles, as mentioned by Mr. Butler, was produced by the subsequent
annexations to Dunstable.

     An Act to set of Nathaniel Lawrence with his Estate, from the
     Town of Groton, and annex them to the Town of Dunstable.

     [This act passed January 26, 1796.]

     An act to set off Willard Robbins with his estate from the town of
     Groton, in the county of Middlesex, and to annex the same to
     the town of Dunstable, in the same county.

     Sec. 1. That
     Willard Robbins, of Groton, in the county of Middlesex, with
     his estate, be, and hereby is set off from said town of Groton,
     and annexed to the town of Dunstable, in said county, there to do
     duty and receive privileges in the same manner as other inhabitants
     of the said town of Dunstable.

     Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That the said Willard Robbins
     shall be holden to pay and discharge all legal assessments and
     taxes, that have been assessed upon him by said town of Groton
     prior to the passing this act.

     [This act passed June 18, 1803.]

The boundary between the two towns now remained unchanged until February 15, 1820, when another
act was passed by the Legislature making a further surrender of territory. It took a considerable
parcel of land and gave it to Dunstable, thereby straightening and simplifying the jurisdictional
line, which at this time formed but five angles.

In the autumn of 1794 a plan of Groton, Pepperell, and Shirley was made by Dr. Oliver Prescott,
Jr., which gives a few interesting facts. The following notes are taken from the copy now in
the office of the Secretary of State. It will be seen that Dr. Prescott refers to the land
set off by the Act of February 25, 1793:--

     This Plan contains the Bounds of three Towns, viz. Groton,
     Pepperrell & Shirley,--all which, together with whatsoever is
     delineated on said Plan, was taken by an actual Survey, agreeably
     to a resolve of the General Court, passed June 25, 1794, & under
     the Inspection of the Selectmen & Committee's from the respective
     towns, appointed for that purpose in the month of Sept'r. 1794.

     By OLIVER PRESCOTT, Ju'r. Surveyor.

     The reputed distance of Groton from Cambridge [the shire-town] is
     Thirty two Miles, & from Boston Thirty five miles; The River Nashua
     is from 8 to 10 rods in width. The River Squannacoock 4 or 5 rods
     in width. In Groton are twenty natural Ponds, six of which are
     delineated on the Plan, by actual Survey. Several of the other
     Ponds are in size, nearly equal to those on the plan, & may in the
     whole contain about two Thousand Acres. There are no Mines in said
     Town, except one of Iron Ore, nearly exhausted. Every other Matter
     directed to be delineated, described or specifyed, may be found on
     the Plan.

     SAM'll LAWRENCE      }
     ZACH'h FITCH         } Committee.
     OLIVER PRESCOTT Ju'r.}

     The reputed distance of Pepperrell from Cambridge is thirty seven
     miles; from Boston forty Miles.

     The River Nissitisset is about four Rods in width.

     The reputed distance of Shirley from Cambridge is thirty five
     Miles; & from Boston thirty Eight Miles.

     Catacoonamug & Mulpus Brooks are from one to two Rods in width. The
     Plan contains every thing relative to the two last mentioned Towns
     necessary to be described.

     OLIVER PRESCOTT, Ju'r.

     What is enclosed in this Blue line, contains about the quantity of
     Land set off from Groton to Dunstable, by Act of the General Court,
     passed February 25, 1793. As by said Act, the petitioners and their
     Farms were set off, without specifying particular bounds, Accuracy
     cannot be obtained, with respect to this Line, without very great
     expence and Trouble.

By an act passed February 6, 1798, a considerable portion of territory lying on the easterly
side of the Nashua river, in the south-west corner of Groton, was annexed to Shirley. This
tract continued to form a part of Shirley until the incorporation of Ayer, on February 14,
1871, when its political condition was again changed, and its government transferred to the
new town. The act authorizing the annexation is as follows,--and I give it entire in order
to show the loose way of describing boundary lines during the latter part of the last century:--

     An Act to set off certain Lands from the town of Groton, and
     annex the same to the town of Shirley.

     SECT. 2. Provided nevertheless, and be it further enacted, That
     the said tract of land and the inhabitants thereof shall be liable
     to be taxed by the town of Groton, their full proportion in a tax
     to the amount of the debts now due from said town of Groton, in
     the same manner as if this act had not been passed: Provided such
     tax be made and assessed within one year from the time of passing
     this act; and shall also be liable to pay their proportion of all
     state taxes that may be assessed on the town of Groton until a
     new valuation be taken.

     [This act passed February 6, 1798.]

All the changes of territorial jurisdiction thus far noted have been in one direction,--from
Groton to the surrounding towns; but now the tide turns, and for a wonder she received, by
legislative enactment, on February 3, 1803, a small parcel of land just large enough for a
potato-patch. The annexation came from Pepperell, and the amount received was four acres and
twenty rods in extent. The following is a copy:--

     An act to set off a certain parcel of land from the town of
     Pepperell, in the county of Middlesex, and to annex the same to
     the town of Groton, in the same county.

     [This act passed February 3, 1803.]

The Worcester and Nashua Railroad was opened through the township of Groton in the month of
December, 1848. It ran at that time a distance of eight miles through its territory, keeping
on the east side of the Nashua river, which for a considerable part of the way was the dividing
line between Groton and Pepperell. The railroad station for the people of Pepperell was on
the Groton side of the river, and in the course of a few years a small village sprang up in
the neighborhood. All the interests and sympathies of this little settlement were with Pepperell;
and under these circumstances the Legislature, on May 18, 1857, passed an act of annexation,
by which it became in reality what it was in sentiment,--a part and parcel of that town. The
first section of the act is as follows:--

     An act to set off a part of the Town of Groton, and annex the same
     to the Town of Pepperell.

     Be it enacted, &c., as follows:

     All that part of the town of Groton, in the county of Middlesex,
     with the inhabitants thereon, lying north of the following
     described line is hereby set off from the town of Groton, and
     annexed to the town of Pepperell, to wit: Beginning at the boundary
     between said town of Groton and the town of Dunstable, at a stone
     monument in the wall on land of Elbridge Chapman and land of Joseph
     Sanderson, and running south, eighty-six degrees west, about six
     hundred and sixty rods, to a stone monument at the corner of land
     called the "Job Shattuck Farm," and land of James Hobart, near the
     Nashua River and Worcester and Nashua Railroad; thence in same line
     to the centre of Nashua River and the boundary of said town of
     Pepperell: provided, however, that for the purpose of electing a
     representative to the general court, the said territory shall
     continue to be a part of the town of Groton, until a new
     apportionment for representatives is made; and the inhabitants
     resident therein shall be entitled to vote in the choice of such
     representatives, and shall be eligible to the office of
     representative in the town of Groton, in the same manner as if this
     act had not been passed.

The latest legislation connected with the dismemberment of the original grant--and perhaps
the last for many years to come--is the Act of February 14, 1871, by which the town of Ayer
was incorporated. This enactment took from Groton a large section of territory lying near its
southern borders, and from Shirley all that part of the town on the easterly side of the Nashua
River which was annexed to it from Groton on February 6, 1798.

Thus has the old Groton Plantation, during a period of more than two centuries, been hewed
and hacked down to less than one-half of its original dimensions. It has furnished, substantially,
the entire territory of Pepperell, Shirley, and Ayer, and has contributed more or less largely
to form five other towns. An examination of the accompanying map will show these changes more
clearly than any verbal or written description.

       *       *       *       *       *

SAILS.

  The ship's white sails are all unfurl'd
    To the salt breath of the sea;
  And never a ship in all the world
    Sails on with the wind more free.

  For the white sails are white hopes of youth,
    The breath of the future blows;
  But whither the vessel flies, in truth,
    There is no man that knows.

