Mr. Webster had been in almost continual public service since 1813, and during that period
the two great questions which demanded the attention of statesmen were the tariff and the currency.
The history of the former is to be found in the Reply to Hayne and the Reply to Calhoun; the
history of the latter, in that memorable series of speeches during the session of 1831-1833
on the policy of President Jackson regarding the United States Bank. Out of this great controversy
the Whig party arose, and its first nominee for the presidency was William Henry Harrison in
1835, but the friends of Jackson were strong, and Van Buren was elected. He continued the financial
policy of his predecessor, or at least made no effort to remedy the evils which it had brought
upon the country. Mr. Webster gave himself to the task of exposing the financial heresies of
the administration and of preventing further injurious legislation. In the summer of 1839 he
visited England for rest, and was everywhere received with the honor due to his high position
and his distinguished attainments; he received courtesies usually confined to ambassadors and
foreign ministers. On his return he found that the Whigs had again nominated Harrison. Although
he had reason to expect his own nomination, for this was the desire of the people, he at once
threw himself into the campaign in support of the nominee. The people from all sections of
the country wished to hear and see the man who had done such noble service for them in Congress.
His speeches during this campaign are a fit supplement to those which he had just completed
on the subject of the bank. The theme was essentially the same, but the audience was in many
respects a more difficult one to reach. In the familiarity with financial questions Mr. Webster
had shown himself second only to Hamilton himself, and in presenting the subject to a popular
audience he reached the high-water mark of political oratory; there is no cant, no bluster,
no personal abuse, but the dignity and simplicity of the simple and dignified friend of the people.

On the 19th of August, 1840, he addressed the citizens of New York in a mass meeting at Saratoga.
Of all the great speeches of this campaign this best represents the mind and art of Mr. Webster,
and is especially interesting in this year (1892) when essentially the same questions--the
tariff and the currency--are before the people, and when the nominee of the party, which is
the child of the old Whig party, is Benjamin Harrison.

[1]P. 331, l. 28. 1. The history of banking in the United States is interesting as a chapter
in the general history of banking. It began with that great financier, Alexander Hamilton.
When Secretary of the Treasury he conceived the plan of a great national bank, which should
take charge of the disbursement of the revenues, and which should furnish a paper circulation,--founded
on national resources,--which should be current all over the country. After a prolonged opposition
by the Anti-federalists, who claimed that the establishment of such a bank would be unconstitutional,
he prevailed upon Washington to sign the bill of incorporation, and in 1791 the bank began
its work. It continued its existence until 1811, when the Anti-federalists refused to recharter
it. Owing to the disordered currency resulting from the War of 1812, Mr. Madison brought the
matter before Congress in his message, and in 1816 the second Bank of the United States was
established.

[2]P. 333, l. 27. 1. Cf. Sumner's Life of Andrew Jackson, Chs. XIII., XIV.

