Vincenzo Bellini was born Nov. 3, 1802, at Catania, Sicily, and came of musical parentage.
By the generosity of a patron he was sent to Naples, and studied at the Conservatory under
Zingarelli. His first opera was "Adelson e Salvino," and its remarkable merit secured him a
commission from the manager, Barbaja, for an opera for San Carlo. The result was his first
important work, "Bianca e Fernando," written in 1826. Its success was moderate; but he was
so encouraged that he at once went to Milan and wrote "Il Pirata," the tenor part for Rubini.
Its success was extraordinary, and the managers of La Scala commissioned him for another work.
In 1828 "La Straniera" appeared, quickly followed by "Zaira" (1829), which failed at Parma,
and "I Capuletti ed i Montecchi," a version of "Romeo and Juliet," which made a great success
at Venice in 1830. A year later he composed "La Sonnambula," unquestionably his best work,
for La Scala, and it speedily made the tour of Europe, and gained for him an extended reputation.
A year after its appearance he astonished the musical world with "Norma," written, like "Sonnambula,"
for Mme. Pasta. These are his greatest works. "Norma" was followed by "Beatrice di Tenda,"
and this by "I Puritani," his last opera, written in Paris for the four great artists, Grisi,
Rubini, Tamburini, and Lablache. Bellini died Sept. 23, 1835, in the twenty-ninth year of his
age, preserving his musical enthusiasm to the very last. He was a close follower of Rossini,
and studied his music diligently, and though without a very profound knowledge of harmony or
orchestration, succeeded in producing at least three works, "Norma," "Sonnambula," and "I Puritani,"
which were the delight of the opera-goers of his day, and still freshly hold the stage.

NORMA.

"Norma," a serious opera in two acts, words by Romani, was first produced during the season
of Lent, 1832, at Milan, with the principal parts cast as follows:--

  NORMA        Mme. PASTA.
  ADALGISA     Mme. GRISI.
  POLLIONE     Sig. DONZELLI.

It was first heard in London in 1833, and in Paris in 1855, and Planché's English version of
it was produced at Drury Lane in 1837. The scene of the opera is laid among the Druids, in
Gaul, after its occupation by the Roman legions. In the first scene the Druids enter with Oroveso,
their priest, to the impressive strains of a religious march which is almost as familiar as
a household word. The priest announces that Norma, the high priestess, will come and cut the
sacred branch and give the signal for the expulsion of the Romans. The next scene introduces
Pollione, the Roman proconsul, to whom Norma, in defiance of her faith and traditions, has
bound herself in secret marriage, and by whom she has had two children. In a charmingly melodious
scena ("Meco all' altar di Venere") he reveals his faithlessness and guilty love for Adalgisa,
a young virgin of the temple, who has consented to abandon her religion and fly with him to
Rome. In the fourth scene Norma enters attended by her priestesses, and denounces the Druids
for their warlike disposition, declaring that the time has not yet come for shaking off the
yoke of Rome, and that when it does she will give the signal from the altar of the Druids.
After cutting the sacred mistletoe, she comes forward and invokes peace from the moon in that
exquisite prayer, "Casta Diva," which electrified the world with its beauty and tenderness,
and still holds its place in popular favor, not alone by the grace of its embellishments, but
by the pathos of its melody. It is followed by another cavatina of almost equal beauty and
tenderness ("Ah! bello a me ritorna"). In the next scene Adalgisa, retiring from the sacred
rites, sings of her love for Pollione, and as she closes is met by the proconsul, who once
more urges her to fly to Rome with him. The duet between them is one of great power and beauty,
and contains a strikingly passionate number for the tenor ("Va, crudele"). Oppressed by her
conscience, she reveals her fatal promise to Norma, and implores absolution from her vows.
Norma yields to her entreaties, but when she inquires the name and country of her lover, and
Adalgisa points to Pollione as he enters Norma's sanctuary, all the priestess's love turns
to wrath. In this scene the duet, "Perdoni e ti compiango," is one of exceeding loveliness
and peculiarly melodious tenderness. The act closes with a terzetto of great power ("O! di
qual sei tu"), in which both the priestess and Adalgisa furiously denounce the faithless Pollione.
In the midst of their imprecations the sound of the sacred shield is heard calling Norma to
the rites.

The second act opens in Norma's dwelling, and discovers her children asleep on a couch. Norma
enters with the purpose of killing them, but the maternal instinct overcomes her vengeful thought
that they are Pollione's children. Adalgisa appears, and Norma announces her intention to place
her children in the Virgin's hands, and send her and them to Pollione while she expiates her
offence on the funeral pyre. Adalgisa pleads with her not to abandon Pollione, who will return
to her repentant; and the most effective number in the opera ensues,--the grand duet containing
two of Bellini's most beautiful inspirations, the "Deh! con te li prendi," and the familiar
"Mira, O Norma," whose strains have gone round the world and awakened universal delight. Pollione,
maddened by his passion for Adalgisa, impiously attempts to tear her from the altar in the
temple of Irminsul, whereupon Norma enters the temple and strikes the sacred shield, summoning
the Druids. They meet, and she declares the meaning of the signal is war, slaughter, and destruction.
She chants a magnificent hymn ("Guerra, guerra"), which is full of the very fury of battle.
Pollione, who has been intercepted in the temple, is brought before her. Love is still stronger
than resentment with her. In a very dramatic scena ("In mia mano alfin tu sei") she informs
him he is in her power, but she will let him escape if he will renounce Adalgisa and leave
the country. He declares death would be preferable; whereupon she threatens to denounce Adalgisa.
Pity overcomes anger, however. She snatches the sacred wreath from her brow and declares herself
the guilty one. Too late Pollione discovers the worth of the woman he has abandoned, and a
beautiful duet ("Qual cor tradisti") forms the closing number. She ascends the funeral pyre
with Pollione, and in its flames they are purged of earthly crime. It is a memorable fact in
the history of this opera, that on its first performance it was coldly received, and the Italian
critics declared it had no vitality; though no opera was ever written in which such intense
dramatic effect has been produced with simple melodic force, and no Italian opera score to-day
is more living or more likely to last than that of Norma.

LA SONNAMBULA.

"La Sonnambula," an opera in two acts, words by Romani, was first produced in Milan, March
6, 1831, with the following cast:--

  AMINA        Mme. PASTA.
  ELVINO       Sig. RUBINI.
  RODOLFO      Sig. MARIANO.
  LISA         Mme. TOCCANI.

It was brought out in the same year in Paris and London, and two years after in English, with
Malibran as Amina. The subject of the story was taken from a vaudeville and ballet by Scribe.
The scene is laid in Switzerland. Amina, an orphan, the ward of Teresa, the miller's wife,
is about to marry Elvino, a well-to-do landholder of the village. Lisa, mistress of the inn,
is also in love with Elvino, and jealous of her rival. Alessio, a peasant lad, is also in love
with the landlady. Such is the state of affairs on the day before the wedding. Rodolfo, the
young lord of the village, next appears upon the scene. He has arrived incognito for the purpose
of looking up his estates, and stops at Lisa's inn, where he meets Amina. He gives her many
pretty compliments, much to the dissatisfaction of the half-jealous Elvino, who is inclined
to quarrel with the disturber of his peace of mind. Amina, who is subject to fits of somnambulism,
has been mistaken for a ghost by the peasants, and they warn Rodolfo that the village is haunted.
The information, however, does not disturb him, and he quietly retires to his chamber. The
officious Lisa also enters, and a playful scene of flirtation ensues, during which Amina enters
the room, walking in her sleep. Lisa seeks shelter in a closet. Rodolfo, to escape from the
embarrassment of the situation, leaves the apartment, and Amina reclines upon the bed as if
it were her own. The malicious Lisa hurries from the room to inform Elvino of what she has
seen, and thoughtlessly leaves her handkerchief. Elvino rushes to the spot with other villagers,
and finding Amina, as Lisa had described, declares that she is guilty, and leaves her. Awakened
by the noise, the unfortunate girl, realizing the situation, sorrowfully throws herself into
Teresa's arms. The villagers implore Rodolfo to acquit Amina of any blame, and he stoutly protests
her innocence; but it is of no avail in satisfying Elvino, who straightway offers his hand
to Lisa. In the last act Amina is seen stepping from the window of the mill in her sleep. She
crosses a frail bridge which yields beneath her weight and threatens to precipitate her upon
the wheel below; but she passes it in safety, descends to the ground, and walks into her lover's
arms amid the jubilant songs of the villagers. Elvino is convinced of her innocence, and they
are wedded at once, while the discovery of Lisa's handkerchief in Rodolfo's room pronounces
her the faithless one.

Such is the simple little pastoral story to which Bellini has set some of his most beautiful
melodies, the most striking of which are the aria, "Sovra il sen," in the third scene of the
first act, where Amina declares her happiness to Teresa; the beautiful aria for barytone in
the sixth scene, "Vi ravviso," descriptive of Rodolfo's delight in revisiting the scenes of
his youth; the playful duet between Amina and Elvino, "Mai piu dubbi!" in which she rebukes
him for his jealousy; the humorous and very characteristic chorus of the villagers in the tenth
scene, "Osservate, l'uscio è aperto," as they tiptoe into Rodolfo's apartment; the duet, "O
mio dolor," in the next scene, in which Amina asserts her innocence; the aria for tenor in
the third scene of the second act, "Tutto e sciolto," in which Elvino bemoans his sad lot;
and that joyous ecstatic outburst of birdlike melody, "Ah! non giunge," which closes the opera.
In fact, "Sonnambula" is so replete with melodies of the purest and tenderest kind, that it
is difficult to specify particular ones. It is exquisitely idyllic throughout, and the music
is as quiet, peaceful, simple, and tender as the charming pastoral scenes it illustrates.

I PURITANI.

"I Puritani di Scozia," an opera in two acts, words by Count Pepoli, was first produced at
the Théâtre Italien, Paris, Jan. 25, 1835, and in London in the following May, under the title
of "I Puritani ed i Cavalieri." The original cast was as follows:--

  ELVIRA      Mme. GRISI.
  ARTURO      Sig. RUBINI.
  RICARDO     Sig. TAMBURINI.
  GIORGIO     Sig. LABLACHE.

This cast was one of unexampled strength, and was long known in Europe as the Puritani quartet.
The story of the opera is laid in England, during the war between Charles II. and his Parliament,
and the first scene opens in Plymouth, then held by the parliamentary forces. The fortress
is commanded by Lord Walton, whose daughter, Elvira, is in love with Lord Arthur Talbot, a
young cavalier in the King's service. Her hand had previously been promised to Sir Richard
Forth, of the parliamentary army; but to the great delight of the maiden, Sir George Walton,
brother of the commander, brings her the news that her father has relented, and that Arthur
will be admitted into the fortress that the nuptials may be celebrated. Henrietta, widow of
Charles I., is at this time a prisoner in the fortress, under sentence of death passed by Parliament.
Arthur discovers her situation, and by concealing her in Elvira's bridal veil seeks to effect
her escape. On their way out he encounters his rival; but the latter, discovering that the
veiled lady is not Elvira, allows them to pass. The escape is soon discovered, and Elvira,
thinking her lover has abandoned her, loses her reason. Arthur is proscribed by the Parliament
and sentenced to death; but Sir Richard, moved by the appeals of Sir George Walton, who hopes
to restore his niece to reason, promises to use his influence with Parliament to save Arthur's
life should he be captured unarmed. Arthur meanwhile manages to have an interview with Elvira;
and the latter, though still suffering from her mental malady, listens joyfully to his explanation
of his sudden flight. Their interview is disturbed by a party of Puritans who enter and arrest
him. He is condemned to die on the spot; but before the sentence can be carried out, a messenger
appears with news of the king's defeat and the pardon of Arthur. The joyful tidings restore
Elvira to reason, and the lovers are united.

The libretto of "I Puritani" is one of the poorest ever furnished to Bellini, but the music
is some of his best. It is replete with melodies, which are not only fascinating in their original
setting, but have long been favorites on the concert-stage. The opera is usually performed
in three acts, but was written in two. The prominent numbers of the first act are the pathetic
cavatina for Ricardo, "Ah! per sempre io ti perdei," in which he mourns the loss of Elvira;
a lovely romanza for tenor ("A te o cara"); a brilliant polacca ("Son vergin vezzosa") for
Elvira, which is one of the delights of all artists; and a concerted finale, brimming over
with melody and closing with the stirring anathema chorus, "Non casa, non spiaggia." The first
grand number in the second act is Elvira's mad song, "Qui la voce," in which are brought out
not only that rare gift for expressing pathos in melody for which Bellini is so famous, but
the sweetest of themes and most graceful of embellishments. The remaining numbers are Elvira's
appeal to her lover ("Vien, diletto"), the magnificent duet for basses ("Suoni la tromba"),
known as the "Liberty Duet," which in sonorousness, majesty, and dramatic intensity hardly
has an equal in the whole range of Italian opera; a tender and plaintive romanza for tenor
("A una fonte aflitto e solo"); a passionate duet for Arthur and Elvira ("Star teco ognor");
and an adagio, sung by Arthur in the finale ("Ella è tremante").

BIZET.

Georges Bizet was born at Paris, Oct. 25, 1838, and in an artistic atmosphere, as his father,
an excellent teacher, was married to a sister of Mme. Delsarte, a talented pianist, and his
uncle, a musician, was the founder of the famous Delsarte system. He studied successively with
Marmontel and Benoist, and subsequently took lessons in composition from Halevy, whose daughter
he afterwards married. His first work was an operetta of not much consequence, "Docteur Miracle,"
written in 1857, and in the same year he took the Grand Prix de Rome. On his return from Italy
he composed "Vasco de Gama" and "Les Pecheurs de Perles," neither of which met with much success.
In 1867 "La Jolie Fille de Perth" appeared, and in 1872, "Djamileh." During the intervals of
these larger works he wrote the Patrie overture and the interludes to "L'Arlesienne," a very
poetical score which Theodore Thomas introduced to this country, and both works were received
with enthusiasm. At last he was to appreciate and enjoy a real dramatic success, though it
was his last work. "Carmen" appeared in 1875, and achieved a magnificent success at the Opera
Comique. It was brought out in March, and in the following June he died of acute heart-disease.
He was a very promising composer, and specially excelled in orchestration. During his last
few years he was a close student of Wagner, whose influence is apparent in this last work of
his life.

CARMEN.

"Carmen," an opera in four acts, words by Meilhac and Halevy, adapted from Prosper Merimée's
romance of "Carmen," was first produced at the Opera Comique, Paris, March 3, 1875, with Mme.
Galli-Marie in the title-rôle and Mlle. Chapuy as Michaela. The scene is laid in Seville, time
1820. The first act opens in the public square, filled with a troop of soldiers under command
of Don José, and loungers who are waiting the approach of the pretty girls who work in the
cigar-factory near by, and prettiest and most heartless of them all, Carmen. Before they appear,
Michaela, a village girl, enters the square, bearing a message to Don José from his mother,
but not finding him departs. The cigar-girls at last pass by on their way to work, and with
them Carmen, who observes Don José sitting in an indifferent manner and throws him the rose
she wears in her bosom. As they disappear, Michaela returns and delivers her message. The sight
of the gentle girl and the thought of home dispel Don José's sudden passion for Carmen. He
is about to throw away her rose, when a sudden disturbance is heard in the factory. It is found
that Carmen has quarrelled with one of the girls and wounded her. She is arrested, and to prevent
further mischief her arms are pinioned. She so bewitches the lieutenant, however, that he connives
at her escape and succeeds in effecting it, while she is led away to prison by the soldiers.
In the second act Carmen has returned to her wandering gypsy life, and we find her with her
companions in the cabaret of Lillas-Pastia, singing and dancing. Among the new arrivals is
Escamillo, the victorious bull-fighter of Grenada, with whom Carmen is at once fascinated.
When the inn is closed, Escamillo and the soldiers depart, but Carmen waits with two of the
gypsies, who are smugglers, for the arrival of Don José. They persuade her to induce him to
join their band, and when the lieutenant, wild with passion for her, enters the apartment,
she prevails upon him to remain in spite of the trumpet-call which summons him to duty. An
officer appears and orders him out. He refuses to go, and when the officer attempts to use
force Carmen summons the gypsies. He is soon overpowered, and Don José escapes to the mountains.
The third act opens in the haunt of the smugglers, a wild, rocky, cavernous place. Don José
and Carmen, who is growing very indifferent to him, are there. As the contrabandists finish
their work and gradually leave the scene, Escamillo, who has been following Carmen, appears.
His presence and his declarations as well arouse the jealousy of Don José. They rush at each
other for mortal combat, but the smugglers separate them. Escamillo bides his time, invites
them to the approaching bullfight at Seville, and departs. While Don José is upbraiding Carmen,
the faithful Michaela, who has been guided to the spot, begs him to accompany her, as his mother
is dying. Duty prevails, and he follows her as Escamillo's taunting song is heard dying away
in the distance. In the last act the drama hurries on to the tragic dénouement. It is a gala-day
in Seville, for Escamillo is to fight. Carmen is there in his company, though her gypsy friends
have warned her Don José is searching for her. Amid great pomp Escamillo enters the arena,
and Carmen is about to follow, when Don José appears and stops her. He appeals to her and tries
to awaken the old love. She will not listen, and at last in a fit of wild rage hurls the ring
he had given her at his feet. The shouts of the people in the arena announce another victory
for Escamillo. She cries out with joy. Don José springs at her like a tiger, and stabs her
just as Escamillo emerges from the contest.

Carmen is the largest and best-considered of all Bizet's works, and one of the best in the
modern French repertory. The overture is short but very brilliant. After some characteristic
choruses by the street lads, soldiers, and cigar-girls, Carmen sings the Havanaise ("Amor,
misterioso angelo"), a quaint song in waltz time, the melody being that of an old Spanish song
by Tradier, called "El Aveglito." A serious duet between Michaela and Don José ("Mia madre
io la rivedo") follows, which is very tender in its character. The next striking number is
the dance tempo, "Presso il bastion de Seviglia," a seguidilla sung by Carmen while bewitching
Don José. In the finale, as she escapes, the Havanaise, which is the Carmen motive, is heard again.

The second-act music is peculiarly Spanish in color, particularly that for the ballet. The
opening song of the gypsies in the cabaret, to the accompaniment of the castanets ("Vezzi e
anella scintillar"), is bewitching in its rhythm, and is followed in the next scene by a stirring
and very picturesque aria ("Toreador attento"), in which Escamillo describes the bull-fight.
A beautifully written quintet ("Abbiamo in vista"), and a strongly dramatic duet, beginning
with another fascinating dance tempo ("Voglio danzar pel tuo piacer"), and including a beautiful
pathetic melody for Don José ("Il fior che avevi"), closes the music of the act.

The third act contains two very striking numbers, the terzetto of the card-players in the smugglers'
haunt ("Mischiam! alziam!"), and Michaela's aria ("Io dico no, non son paurosa"), the most
effective and beautiful number in the whole work, and the one which shows most clearly the
effect of Wagner's influence upon the composer. In the finale of the act the Toreador's song
is again heard as he disappears in the distance after the quarrel with Don José.

The last act is a hurly-burly of the bull-fight, the Toreador's taking march, the stormy duet
between Don José and Carmen, and the tragic dénouement in which the Carmen motive is repeated.
The color of the whole work is Spanish, and the dance tempo is freely used and beautifully
worked up with Bizet's ingenious and scholarly instrumentation. Except in the third act, however,
the vocal parts are inferior to the orchestral treatment.

BOIELDIEU.

François Adrien Boieldieu was born Dec. 16, 1775, at Rouen, France. Little is known of his
earlier life, except that he studied for a time with Broche, the cathedral organist. His first
opera, "La Fille Coupable," appeared in 1793, and was performed at Rouen with some success.
In 1795 a second opera, "Rosalie et Myrza," was performed in the same city; after which he
went to Paris, where he became acquainted with many prominent musicians, among them Cherubini.
His first Paris opera was the "Famille Suisse" (1797), which had a successful run. Several
other operas followed, besides some excellent pieces of chamber music which secured him the
professorship of the piano in the Conservatory. He also took lessons at this time of Cherubini
in counterpoint, and in 1803 brought out a very successful work, "Ma Tante Aurore." We next
hear of him in St. Petersburg, as conductor of the Imperial Opera, where he composed many operas
and vaudevilles. He spent eight years in Russia, returning to Paris in 1811. The next year
one of his best operas, "Jean de Paris," was produced with extraordinary success. Though he
subsequently wrote many operas, fourteen years elapsed before his next great work, "La Dame
Blanche," appeared. Its success was unprecedented. All Europe was delighted with it, and it
is as fresh to-day as when it was first produced. The remainder of Boieldieu's life was sad,
owing to operatic failures, pecuniary troubles, and declining health. He died at Jarcy, near
Paris, Oct. 8, 1834.

LA DAME BLANCE.

"La Dame Blanche," opera comique in three acts, words by Scribe, adapted from Walter Scott's
novels, "The Monastery" and "Guy Mannering," was first produced at the Opera Comique, Dec.
10, 1825, and was first performed in English under the title of "The White Maid," at Covent
Garden, London, Jan. 2, 1827. The scene of the opera is laid in Scotland. The Laird of Avenel,
a zealous partisan of the Stuarts, was proscribed after the battle of Culloden, and upon the
eve of going into exile intrusts Gaveston, his steward, with the care of the castle, and of
a considerable treasure which is concealed in a statue called the White Lady. The traditions
affirmed that this lady was the protectress of the Avenels. All the clan were believers in
the story, and the villagers declared they had often seen her in the neighborhood. Gaveston,
however, does not share their superstition nor believe in the legend, and some time after the
departure of the Laird he announces the sale of the castle, hoping to obtain it at a low rate
because the villagers will not dare to bid for it through fear of the White Lady. The steward
is led to do this because he has heard the Laird is dead, and knows there is no heir to the
property. Anna, an orphan girl, who had been befriended by the Laird, determines to frustrate
Gaveston's designs, and appears in the village disguised as the White Lady. She also writes
to Dickson, a farmer, who is indebted to her, to meet her at midnight in the castle of Avenel.
He is too superstitious to go, and George Brown, a young lieutenant who is sharing his hospitality,
volunteers in his stead. He encounters the White Lady, and learns from her he will shortly
meet a young lady who has saved his life by her careful nursing after a battle,--Anna meanwhile
recognizing George as the person she had saved. When the day of sale comes, Dickson is empowered
by the farmers to purchase the castle, so that it may not fall into Gaveston's hands. George
and Anna are there; and the former, though he has not a shilling, buys it under instructions
from Anna. When the time comes for payment, Anna produces the treasure which had been concealed
in the statue, and, still in the disguise of the White Lady, discovers to him the secret of
his birth during the exile of his parents. Gaveston approaches the spectre and tears off her
veil, revealing Anna, his ward. Moved by the zeal and fidelity of his father's protégée, George
offers her his hand, which, after some maidenly scruples, she accepts.

The opera is full of beautiful songs, many of them Scotch in character. In the first act the
opening song of George ("Ah, what Pleasure a Soldier to be!") is very poetical in its sentiment.
It also contains the characteristic ballad of the White Lady, with choral responses ("Where
yon Trees your Eye discovers"), and an exquisitely graceful trio in the finale ("Heavens! what
do I hear?"). The second act opens with a very plaintive romanza ("Poor Margaret, spin away!"),
sung by Margaret, Anna's old nurse, at her spinning-wheel, as she thinks of the absent Laird,
followed in the fifth scene by a beautiful cavatina for tenor ("Come, O Gentle Lady"). In the
seventh scene is a charming duet ("From these Halls"), and the act closes with an ensemble
for seven voices and chorus, which has hardly been excelled in ingenuity of treatment. The
third act opens with a charmingly sentimental aria for Anna ("With what delight I behold"),
followed in the third scene by a stirring chorus of mountaineers, leading up to "the lay ever
sung by the Clan of Avenel,"--the familiar old ballad, "Robin Adair," which loses a little
of its local color under French treatment, but gains an added grace. It is stated on good authority
that two of Boieldieu's pupils, Adolph Adam and Labarre, assisted him in the work, and that
the lovely overture was written in one evening,--Boieldieu taking the andante and the two others
the remaining movements. Though a little old-fashioned in some of its phrasing, the opera still
retains its freshness and beautiful sentiment. Its popularity is best evinced by the fact that
up to June, 1875, it had been given 1340 times at the theatre where it was first produced.

BOITO.

Arrigo Boito was born in 1840, and received his musical education in the Conservatory at Milan,
where he studied for nine years. In 1866 he became a musical critic for several Italian papers,
and about the same time wrote several poems of more than ordinary merit. Both in literature
and music his taste was diversified; and he combined the two talents in a remarkable degree
in his opera of "Mephistopheles," the only work by which he is known to the musical world at
large. He studied Goethe profoundly; and the notes which he has appended to the score show
a most intimate knowledge of the Faust legend. His text is in one sense polyglot, as he has
made use of portions of Marlowe's "Doctor Faustus," as well as excerpts from Blaze de Bury,
Lenau, Widmann, and others who have treated the legend. He studied Wagner's music also very
closely, and to such purpose that after the first performance of this opera at La Scala, in
1868, the critics called him the Italian Wagner, and, in common with the public, condemned
both him and his work. After Wagner's "Lohengrin" had been produced in Italy and met with success,
Boito saw his opportunity to once more bring out his work. It was performed at Bologna in 1875,
and met with an enthusiastic success. Its introduction to this country is largely due to Mme.
Christine Nilsson, though Mme. Marie Roze was the first artist to appear in it here.

MEPHISTOPHELES.

"Mephistopheles," grand opera in a prologue, four acts, and epilogue, words by the composer,
was first performed at La Scala, Milan, in 1868. The "Prologue in the Heavens" contains five
numbers, a prelude, and chorus of the mystic choir; instrumental scherzo, preluding the appearance
of Mephistopheles; dramatic interlude, in which he engages to entrap Faust; a vocal scherzo
by the chorus of cherubim; and the Final Psalmody by the penitents on earth and chorus of spirits.
The prologue corresponds to Goethe's prologue in the heavens, the heavenly choirs being heard
in the background of clouds, accompanied by weird trumpet-peals and flourishes in the orchestra,
and closes with a finale of magnificent power.

The first act opens in the city of Frankfort, amid the noise of the crowd and the clanging
of holiday bells. Groups of students, burghers, huntsmen, and peasants sing snatches of chorus.
A cavalcade escorting the Elector passes. Faust and Wagner enter, and retire as the peasants
begin to sing and dance a merry waltz rhythm ("Juhé! Juhé!"). As it dies away they reappear,
Faust being continually followed by a gray friar,--Mephistopheles in disguise,--whose identity
is disclosed by a motive from the prologue. Faust shudders at his presence, but Wagner laughs
away his fears, and the scene then suddenly changes to Faust's laboratory, whither he has been
followed by the gray friar, who conceals himself in an alcove. Faust sings a beautiful aria
("Dai campi, dai prati"), and then, placing the Bible on a lectern, begins to read. The sight
of the book brings Mephistopheles out with a shriek; and, questioned by Faust, he reveals his
true self in a massive and sonorous aria ("Son lo spirito"). He throws off his disguise, and
appears in the garb of a knight, offering to serve Faust on earth if he will serve the powers
of darkness in hell. The compact is made, as in the first act of Gounod's "Faust;" and the
curtain falls as Faust is about to be whisked away in Mephistopheles's cloak.

The second act opens in the garden, with Faust (under the name of Henry), Marguerite, Mephistopheles,
and Martha, Marguerite's mother, strolling in couples. The music, which is of a very sensuous
character, is descriptive of the love-making between Faust and Marguerite, and the sarcastic
passion of Mephistopheles for Martha. It is mostly in duet form, and closes with a quartet
allegretto ("Addio, fuggo"), which is very characteristic. The scene then suddenly changes
to the celebration of the Witches' Sabbath on the summits of the Brocken, where, amid wild
witch choruses, mighty dissonances, and weird incantation music, Faust is shown a vision of
the sorrow of Marguerite. It would be impossible to select special numbers from this closely
interwoven music, excepting perhaps the song ("Ecco il mondo") which Mephistopheles sings when
the witches, after their incantation, present him with a globe of glass which he likens to
the earth.

The third act opens in a prison, where Marguerite is awaiting the penalty for murdering her
babe. The action is very similar to that of the last act of Gounod's "Faust." Her opening aria
("L' altra notte a fondo al maro") is full of sad longings for the child and insane moanings
for mercy. Faust appeals to her to fly with him, and they join in a duet of extraordinary sensuous
beauty blended with pathos ("lontano, lontano"). Mephistopheles urges Faust away as the day
dawns, and pronounces her doom as she falls and dies, while the angelic chorus resounding in
the orchestra announces her salvation.

In the fourth act a most abrupt change is made, both in a dramatic and musical sense. The scene
changes to the "Night of the Classical Sabbath" on the banks of the Peneus, amid temples, statues,
flowers, and all the loveliness of nature in Greece. The music also changes into the pure,
sensuous Italian style. Faust, still with Mephistopheles, pays court to Helen of Troy, who
is accompanied by Pantalis. The opening duet for the latter ("La luna immobile") is one of
exceeding grace and loveliness, and will always be the most popular number in the work. With
the exception of a powerfully dramatic scena, in which Helen describes the horrors of the destruction
of Troy, the music is devoted to the love-making between Helen and Faust, and bears no relation
in form to the rest of the music of the work, being essentially Italian in its smooth, flowing,
melodious character. At the close of the classical Sabbath another abrupt change is made, to
the death-scene of Faust, contained in an epilogue. It opens in his laboratory, where he is
reflecting upon the events of his unsatisfactory life, and contemplating a happier existence
in heaven. Mephistopheles is still by his side as the tempter, offers him his cloak, and urges
him to fly again. The heavenly trumpets which rang through the prologue are again heard, and
the celestial choirs are singing. Enraged, Mephistopheles summons the sirens, who lure Faust
with all their charms. Faust seizes the Sacred Volume, and declares that he relies upon its
word for salvation. He prays for help against the demon. His prayer is answered; and as he
dies a shower of roses falls upon his body. The tempter disappears, and the finale of the prologue,
repeated, announces Faust has died in salvation. The opera as a whole is episodical in its
dramatic construction, and the music is a mixture of two styles,--the Wagnerian and the conventional
Italian; but its orchestration is very bold and independent in character, and the voice-parts
are very striking in their adaptation to the dramatic requirements.

DELIBES.

Leo Delibes, the French composer, was born at St. Germain du Val in 1836, and was graduated
at the Paris Conservatory, where he reached high distinction. His first work, written in 1855,
was an operetta entitled "Deux Sous de Carbon;" but he did not make his mark until his "Maitre
Griffard" was produced at the Theatre Lyrique in 1857. In 1865 he was appointed Chorus-master
at the Opera, and there his real career began. His first great triumph was in ballet-music,
which has ever since been his specialty. His first ballet, "La Source," was produced at the
Opera, Nov. 12, 1865, and delighted all Paris. It was followed by a divertisement for the revival
of Adam's "Corsaire" (1867), the ballet "Coppelia" (1870), a three-act opera "Le Roi l'a dit"
(1873), and the exquisite ballet in three acts and five tableaux, "Sylvia" (1876), with which
Theodore Thomas has made American audiences familiar. His opera "Lakme" was written in 1879.

LAKME.

The romantic opera, "Lakme," written in 1879, was first performed in this country by the American
Opera Company in 1886, Mme. L'Allemand taking the title-rôle. The principal characters are
Lakme, daughter of Nilakantha, an Indian priest, Gerald and Frederick, officers of the British
Army, Ellen and Rose, daughters of the Viceroy, and Mrs. Benson, governess. The scene is laid
in India. Nilakantha cherishes a fond hatred of all foreigners. The two English officers, Gerald
and Frederick, accompanied by a bevy of ladies, intrude upon his sacred grounds. They stroll
about and gradually retire, but Gerald remains to sketch some jewels, which Lakme has left
upon a shrine while she goes flower-gathering with her slave Mallika, evidently also to await
developments when she returns. Lakme soon comes sailing in on her boat, and there is a desperate
case of love at first sight. Their demonstrations of affection are soon interrupted by the
appearance of the priest, whose anger Gerald escapes by fleeing, under cover of a convenient
thunder-storm. In the next act Lakme and her father appear in the public market-place, disguised
as penitents. He compels his daughter to sing, hoping that her face and voice will induce her
lover to disclose himself. The ruse proves successful. Nilakantha waits his opportunity, and
stealing upon his enemy stabs him in the back and makes good his escape. In the third act we
find Gerald in a delightful jungle, where Lakme has in some manner managed to conceal him,
and where she is carefully nursing him with the hope of permanently retaining his love. She
saves his life; but just at this juncture, and while she is absent to obtain a draught of the
water which, according to the Indian legend, will make earthly love eternal, Gerald hears the
music of his regiment, and Frederick appears and urges him back to duty. His allegiance to
his queen, and possibly the remembrance of his engagement to a young English girl, prove stronger
than his love for Lakme. The latter returns, discovers his faithlessness, gathers some poisonous
flowers, whose juices she drinks, and dies in Gerald's arms just as the furious father appears.
As one victim is sufficient to appease the anger of Nilakantha's gods, Gerald is allowed to
go unharmed.

The first act opens with a chorus of Hindoos, oriental in its character, followed by a duet
between Lakme and her father; the scene closing with a sacred chant. The Hindoos gone, there
is a charming oriental duet ("'Neath yon Dome where Jasmines with the Roses are blooming")
between Lakme and her slave, which is one of the gems of the opera. The English then appear
and have a long, talky scene, relieved by a pretty song for Frederick ("I would not give a
Judgment so absurd"), and another for Gerald ("Cheating Fancy coming to mislead me"). As Lakme
enters, Gerald conceals himself. She lays her flowers at the base of the shrine and sings a
restless love-song ("Why love I thus to stray?"). Gerald discovers himself, and after a colloquy
sings his ardent love-song ("The God of Truth so glowing"), and the act closes with Nilakantha's
threats.

The second act opens in the market square, lively with the choruses of Hindoos, Chinamen, fruit-venders,
and sailors, and later on with the adventures of the English party in the crowd. Nilakantha
appears and addresses his daughter in a very pathetic aria ("Lakme, thy soft Looks are over-clouded").
Soon follows Lakme's bell-song ("Where strays the Hindoo Maiden?"), a brilliant and highly
embellished aria with tinkling accompaniment, which will always be a favorite. The recognition
follows; and the remaining numbers of importance are an impassioned song by Gerald ("Ah! then
't is slumbering Love"), with a mysterious response by Lakme ("In the Forest near at Hand").
A ballet, followed by the stabbing of Gerald, closes the act.

In the third act the action hastens to the tragic denouement. It opens with a beautiful crooning
song by Lakme ("'Neath the Dome of Moon and Star") as she watches her sleeping lover. The remaining
numbers of interest are Gerald's song ("Tho' speechless I, my Heart remembers"), followed by
a pretty three-part chorus in the distance and Lakme's dying measures, "To me the fairest Dream
thou 'st given," and "Farewell, the Dream is over." Though the opera is monotonous from sameness
of color and lack of dramatic interest, there are many numbers which leave a charming impression
by their grace, refinement, and genuine poetical effect.

DONIZETTI.

Gaetano Donizetti was born at Bergamo, Italy, Sept. 25, 1798. He studied music both at Bologna
and Naples, and then entered the army rather than subject himself to the caprice of his father,
who was determined that he should devote himself to church music. While his regiment was at
Naples he wrote his first opera, "Enrico di Borgogna" (1818), which was soon followed by a
second, "Il Falegname de Livonia." The success of the latter was so great that it not only
freed him from military service but gained him the honor of being crowned. The first opera
which spread his reputation through Europe was "Anna Bolena," produced at Milan in 1830, and
written for Pasta and Rubini. Two years afterwards, "L' Elisir d' Amore" appeared, which he
is said to have written in fifteen days. He wrote with great facility. "Il Furioso," "Parisina,"
"Torquato Tasso," "Lucrezia Borgia," and "Gemma di Vergi" rapidly followed one another. In
1835 he brought out "Marino Faliero," but its success was small. Ample compensation was made,
however, when in the same year "Lucia" appeared and was received with acclamations of delight.
He was invited to Paris as the successor of Rossini, and wrote his "Marino Faliero" for the
Theatre des Italiens. In 1840 he revisited Paris and produced "Il Poliuto," "La Fille du Regiment,"
and "La Favorita." Leaving Paris he visited Rome, Milan, and Vienna, bringing out "Linda di
Chamouni" in the latter city. Returning to Paris again, he produced "Don Pasquale" at the Théâtre
des Italiens and "Don Sebastien" at the Académie, the latter proving a failure. His last opera,
"Catarina Comaro," was brought out at Naples in 1844. This work also was a failure. It was
evident that his capacity for work was over. He grew sad and melancholy, and during the last
three years of his life was attacked by fits of abstraction which gradually intensified and
ended in insanity and physical paralysis. He died at Bergamo, April 8, 1848.

THE DAUGHTER OF THE REGIMENT.

"The Daughter of the Regiment" ("La Fille du Regiment") opera comique in two acts, words by
Bayard and St. Georges, was first produced at the Opera Comique, Paris, Feb. 11, 1840, with
Mme. Anna Thillon in the rôle of Marie. Its first performance in English was at the Surrey
Theatre, London, Dec. 21, 1847, under the title of "The Daughter of the Regiment," in which
form it is best known in this country. In 1847 it was performed as an Italian opera in London,
with added recitatives, and with Jenny Lind in the leading part.

The music of the opera is light and sparkling, the principal interest centring in the charming
nature of the story and its humorous situations, which afford capital opportunities for comedy
acting. The scene is laid in the Tyrol during its occupation by the French. Marie, the heroine,
and the vivandière of the Twenty-first regiment of Napoleon's army, was adopted as the Daughter
of the Regiment, because she was found on the field, after a battle, by Sergeant Sulpice. On
her person was affixed a letter written by her father to the Marchioness of Berkenfeld, which
has been carefully preserved by the Sergeant. At the beginning of the opera the little waif
has grown into a sprightly young woman, full of mischief and spirit, as is shown by her opening
song ("The Camp was my Birthplace"), in which she tells the story of her life, and by the duet
with Sulpice, known the world over as "The Rataplan," which is of a very animated, stirring,
and martial character, to the accompaniment of rattling drums and sonorous brasses. She is
the special admiration of Tony, a Tyrolean peasant, who has saved her from falling over a precipice.
The soldiers of the regiment are profuse in their gratitude to her deliverer, and celebrate
her rescue with ample potations, during which Marie sings the Song of the Regiment ("All Men
confess it"). Poor Tony, however, who was found strolling in the camp, is placed under arrest
as a spy, though he succeeds in obtaining an interview with Marie and declares his love for
her. The declaration is followed by a charming duet ("No longer can I doubt it"). Tony manages
to clear up his record, and the soldiers decide that he may have Marie's hand if he will consent
to join them. He blithely accepts the condition and dons the French cockade. Everything seems
auspicious, when suddenly the Marchioness of Berkenfeld appears and dashes Tony's hopes to
the ground. The Sergeant, as in honor bound, delivers the letter he has been preserving. After
reading it she claims Marie as her niece, and demands that the regiment shall give up its daughter,
while Tony is incontinently dismissed as an unsuitable person to be connected in any capacity
with her noble family. Marie sings a touching adieu to her comrades ("Farewell, a long Farewell"),
and the act closes with smothered imprecations on the Marchioness by the soldiers, and protestations
of undying love by Tony.

The second act opens in the castle of Berkenfeld, where Marie is duly installed, though she
does not take very kindly to her change of surroundings. The old Sergeant is with her. Grand
company is expected, and the Marchioness desires Marie to rehearse a romance ("The Light of
Early Days was breaking"), which she is to sing to them.

Before she finishes it she and the Sergeant break out into the rollicking Rataplan and go through
with the military evolutions, to the horror of the Marchioness. While regret for the absent
Tony keeps her in a sad mood, she is suddenly cheered up by the sound of drums and fifes, announcing
the approach of soldiers. They are the gallant Twenty-first, with Tony, now a colonel, at their
head. He applies once more for Marie's hand. The soldiers also put in a spirited choral appeal
("We have come, our Child to free"). The Marchioness again refuses. Tony proposes an elopement,
to which Marie, in resentment at her aunt's cruelty, consents. To thwart their plans, the Marchioness
reveals to Marie that early in life she had been secretly married to an officer of lower family
position than her own, and that this officer was Marie's father. Unable to dispute the wishes
of her mother, she renounces Tony in an agony of grief. At last Marie's sorrow arouses old
associations in the mind of the Marchioness, and she consents to the union of Tony and Marie.

While the music of the opera is light, it is none the less very attractive, and the work is
nearly always popular when performed by good artists, owing to the comedy strength of the three
leading parts, Marie, Tony, and the Sergeant. The rôle of the heroine, small as it is, has
always been a favorite one with such great artists as Jenny Lind, Patti, Sontag, and Albani,
while in this country Miss Kellogg and Mrs. Richings-Bernard made great successes in the part.
The latter singer, indeed, and her father, whose personation of the Sergeant was very remarkable,
were among the first to perform the work in the United States.

LA FAVORITA.

"La Favorita," an opera in four acts, words by Royer and Waëtz, the subject taken from the
French drama, "Le Comte de Commingues," was first produced at the Académie, Paris, Dec. 2,
1840, with Mme. Stolz as Leonora, Duprez as Fernando, and Baroelhst as Balthasar. Its success
in England, where it was first produced Feb. 16, 1847, was made by Grisi and Mario. The scene
of the opera is laid in Spain, and the first act opens in the convent of St. James, of Compostella,
where the young novice, Fernando, is about to take monastic vows. Before the rites take place
he is seized with a sudden passion for Leonora, a beautiful maiden who has been worshipping
in the cloisters. He confesses his love to Balthasar, the superior, who orders him to leave
the convent and go out into the world. Leonora, meanwhile, is beloved by Alphonso, king of
Castile, who has provided her a secret retreat on the island of St. Leon. Though threatened
by the pontiff with excommunication, he has resolved to repudiate his queen, in order that
he may carry out his intention of marrying the beautiful Leonora. To her asylum a bevy of maidens
conducts Fernando. He declares his passion for her and finds it reciprocated. He urges her
to fly with him, but she declares it impossible, and giving him a commission in the army signed
by the King, urges him to go to the wars and win honors for her sake.

In the second act Balthasar, in the name of the pontiff, visits their retreat and pronounces
the papal anathema upon the guilty pair. The same curse is threatened to all the attendants
unless Leonora is driven from the King, and the act closes with their vengeful menaces.

In the third act Fernando returns victorious from the war with the Moors. Already beginning
to fear the result of the papal malediction, and having learned of Leonora's passion for the
victor, Alphonso heaps rewards upon him, even to the extent of giving him Leonora's hand. Fernando,
who is ignorant of her past relations to the King, eagerly accepts the proffer; but Leonora,
in despair, sends her attendant, Inez, to inform him of the real nature of the situation and
implore his forgiveness. The King intercepts her, and the marriage takes place at once, Fernando
not discovering Leonora's shame until it is revealed by the courtiers, who avoid him. He flies
from the world to the convent once more for shelter and consolation, followed by Leonora, who
dies in his arms after she has obtained forgiveness.

The music of the work is very dramatic in its character, some of the finales being the strongest
Donizetti has written. In the first act there is a beautifully melodious aria ("Una Vergine"),
in which Fernando describes to Balthasar the vision of Leonora which had appeared to him at
his orisons, and a very tender duet ("Deh, vanne! deh, parti") between Fernando and Leonora,
in which they sorrowfully part from each other. In the second act the King has a very passionate
aria, where he curses his courtiers for leaguing against him at Rome, followed by a very dramatic
duet with Leonora ("Ah! l'alto ardor"). The third act contains the beautiful aria, "O mio Fernando!"
which is a favorite with all contraltos. It is remarkable for its warmth and richness, as well
as its dramatic spirit, and the act closes with a concerted finale of splendid power, in which
Fernando breaks his sword, and once more Balthasar anathematizes the King. The fourth act is
the most beautiful of all in its music and the most powerful in dramatic effect. The chorus
of monks in the first scene ("Scaviam l'asilo") is remarkable for its religious character and
solemnity. In the third scene occurs one of the tenderest and loveliest romanzas ever written
("Spirto gentil"), which Donizetti transferred to this work from his opera, "Le Duc d'Albe,"
which had not been performed, and the libretto of which was originally written by Scribe for
Rossini. The closing duet between Fernando and Leonora is full of pathos and beauty, and forms
a fitting close to an act which, in one sense at least, is an inspiration, as the whole act
was composed in four hours,--a proof of the marvellous ease and facility with which Donizetti
wrote.

DON PASQUALE.

"Don Pasquale," an opera buffa in three acts, was first produced at the Théâtre des Italiens
in Paris, Jan. 4, 1843, with the following extraordinary cast:

  NORINA               Mme. GRISI.
  ERNESTO              Sig. MARIO.
  DR. MALATESTA        Sig. TAMBURINI.
  DON PASQUALE         Sig. LABLACHE.

The scene of this brilliant and gay little opera is laid in Rome. Don Pasquale is in a rage
with Ernesto, his nephew, because he will not marry to suit him. Dr. Malatesta, his friend
and physician, who is also very much attached to the nephew, contrives a plot in the latter's
interest. He visits the Don, and urges him to marry a lady, pretending that she is his sister,
though in reality she is Norina, with whom Ernesto is in love. He then calls upon Norina, and
lets her into the secret of the plot, and instructs her how to play her part. She is to consent
to the marriage contract, and then so harass the Don that he will not only be glad to get rid
of her, but will give his consent to her marriage with Ernesto. The second act opens in Don
Pasquale's house, where Ernesto is bewailing his fate. The Don enters, magnificently dressed,
and ready for the marriage. Norina appears with Malatesta, and feigns reluctance to enter into
the contract; but when the notary arrives she consents to sign. No sooner, however, has she
signed it than she drops her assumed modesty. Ernesto, who is present, is bewildered at the
condition of affairs, but is kept quiet by a sign from the Doctor. Norina refuses all the Don's
amatory demonstrations, and declares Ernesto shall be her escort. She summons the servants,
and lays out a scheme of housekeeping so extravagant that the Don is enraged, and declares
he will not pay the bills. She insists he shall, for she is now master of the house. In the
third act we find Norina entertaining milliners and modistes. Don Pasquale enters, and learning
that she is going to the theatre forbids it, which leads to a quarrel, during which Norina
boxes his ears. As she leaves the room she drops a letter, the reading of which adds the pangs
of jealousy to his other troubles. The Doctor at this juncture happens in and condoles with
him. The Don insists that Norina shall quit his house at once. In the next scene he taxes her
with having a lover concealed in the house, and orders her to leave. The Doctor counsels him
to let his nephew marry Norina; and in the course of explanations the Don discovers that the
Doctor's sister and Norina are one and the same person, and that the marriage was a sham. He
is only too glad of an escape to quarrel with the Doctor for his plot, and the young couple
are speedily united, and have the old man's blessing.

The charm of the opera lies in its comic situations, and the gay, bright music with which they
are illustrated. It is replete with humor and spirit, and flows along in such a bright stream
that it is almost impossible to cull out special numbers, though it contains two duets and
a quartet which are of more than ordinary beauty, and the exquisite serenade in the last act,
"Com'e gentil," which has been heard on almost every concert-stage of the world, and still
holds its place in universal popular esteem. For brilliant gayety it stands in the front rank
of all comic operas, though Donizetti was but three weeks in writing it. It is said that when
it was in rehearsal its fate was uncertain. The orchestra and singers received it very coldly;
but when the rehearsal was over, Donizetti merely shrugged his shoulders and remarked to his
friend, M. Dormoy, the publisher: "Let them alone; they know nothing about it. I know what
is the matter with 'Don Pasquale.' Come with me." They went to the composer's house. Rummaging
among a pile of manuscripts, Donizetti pulled out a song. "This is what 'Don Pasquale' wants,"
he said. "Take it to Mario and tell him to learn it at once." Mario obeyed, and when the opera
was performed sang it to the accompaniment of a tambourine, which Lablache played behind the
scenes. The opera was a success at once, and no song has ever been more popular.

In strange contrast with the gay humor of "Don Pasquale," it may be stated that in the same
year Donizetti wrote the mournful "Don Sebastian," which has been described as "a funeral in
five acts." Crowest, in his "Anecdotes," declares that the serenade is suggestive of Highland
music, and that many of his other operas are Scottish in color. He accounts for this upon the
theory that the composer was of Scotch descent, his grandfather having been a native of Perthshire,
by the name of Izett, and that his father, who married an Italian lady, was Donald Izett. The
change from Donald Izett to Donizetti was an easy one. The story, however, is of doubtful authenticity.

LUCIA DI LAMMERMOOR.

"Lucia di Lammermoor," an opera in three acts, words by Cammarano, was first produced at Naples
in 1835, with Mme. Persiani and Sig. Duprez, for whom the work was written, in the principal
rôles of Lucia and Edgardo. Its first presentation at Paris was Aug. 10, 1839; in London, April
5, 1838; and in English, at the Princess Theatre, London, Jan. 19, 1843. The subject of the
opera is taken from Sir Walter Scott's novel, "The Bride of Lammermoor," and the scene is laid
in Scotland, time, about 1669.

Sir Henry Ashton, of Lammermoor, brother of Lucy, the heroine, has arranged a marriage between
her and Lord Arthur Bucklaw, in order to recover the fortune which he has dissipated, and to
save himself from political peril he has incurred by his participation in movements against
the reigning dynasty. Sir Edgar Ravenswood, with whom he is at enmity, is deeply attached to
Lucy, who reciprocates his love, and on the eve of his departure on an embassy to France pledges
herself to him. During his absence Edgar's letters are intercepted by her brother, who hints
to her of his infidelity, and finally shows her a forged paper which she accepts as the proof
that he is untrue. Overcome with grief at her lover's supposed unfaithfulness, and yielding
to the pressure of her brother's necessities, she at last consents to her union with Lord Arthur.
The marriage contract is signed with great ceremony, and just as she has placed her name to
the fatal paper, Edgar suddenly appears. Learning from Lucy what she has done, he tramples
the contract under foot, hurls an imprecation upon the house of Lammermoor, and bursts out
of the room in a terrible rage. Sir Henry follows him, and a fierce quarrel ensues, which ends
in a challenge. Meanwhile, at night, after the newly wedded couple have retired, a noise is
heard in their apartment. The attendants rush in and find Lord Arthur dying from wounds inflicted
by Lucy, whose grief has made her insane. When she returns to reason, the thought of what she
has done and the horror of her situation overcome her, and shortly death puts an end to her
wretchedness. Ignorant of her fate, Edgar goes to the churchyard of Ravenswood, which has been
selected as the rendezvous for the duel with Sir Henry. While impatiently waiting his appearance,
the bell of the castle tolls, and some of the attendants accosting him bring the news of her
death. The despairing lover kills himself among the graves of his ancestors, and the sombre
story ends.

The popular verdict has stamped "Lucia" as Donizetti's masterpiece, and if the consensus of
musicians could be obtained, it would unquestionably confirm the verdict. It contains incomparably
the grandest of his arias for tenor, the Tomb song in the last act, and one of the finest dramatic
concerted numbers, the sextet in the second act, that can be found in any Italian opera. Like
the quartet in "Rigoletto," it stands out in such bold relief, and is so thoroughly original
and spontaneous, that it may be classed as an inspiration. The music throughout is of the most
sombre character. It does not contain a joyous phrase. And yet it can never be charged with
monotony. Every aria, though its tone is serious and more often melancholy, has its own characteristics,
and the climaxes are worked up with great power. In the first act, for instance, the contrasts
are very marked between Henry's aria ("Cruda, funesta smania"), the chorus of hunters ("Come
vinti da stanchezza"), Henry's second aria ("La pietade in suo favore"), in which he threatens
vengeance upon Edgar, the dramatic and beautifully written arias for Lucy, "Regnava nel silenzio"
and "Quando rapita in estasi," and the passionate farewell duet between Lucy and Edgar, which
is the very ecstasy of commingled love and sorrow. The second act contains a powerful duet
("Le tradirmi tu potrai") between Lucy and Henry; but the musical interest of the act centres
in the great sextet, "Chi mi frena," which ensues when Edgar makes his unexpected appearance
upon the scene of the marriage contract. For beauty, power, richness of melody and dramatic
expression, few concerted numbers by any composer can rival it. The last act also contains
two numbers which are always the delight of great artists,--the mad song of Lucy, "Oh, gioja
che si senti," and the magnificent tomb scena, "Tomba degl'avi miei," which affords even the
most accomplished tenor ample scope for his highest powers.

L'ELISIR D'AMORE.

"L'Elisir d'Amore," an opera buffa in two acts, words by Romani, was first produced in Milan,
in 1832, and in English, at Drury Lane, in 1839, as "The Love Spell." The heroine of this graceful
little opera is Adina, a capricious country girl, who is loved by Nemorino, a young farmer,
whose uncle lies at the point of death, and by Belcore, a sergeant, whose troops are billeted
upon the neighboring village. While Adina keeps both these suitors in suspense, Dr. Dulcamara,
a travelling quack, arrives at the village in great state to vend his nostrums. Nemorino applies
to him for a bottle of the Elixir of Love,--with the magical properties of which he has become
acquainted in a romance Adina has been reading that very morning. The mountebank, of course,
has no such liquid, but he passes off on the simple peasant a bottle of wine, and assures him
that if he drinks of it he can command the love of any one on the morrow. To thoroughly test
its efficacy, Nemorino drinks the whole of it. When he encounters Adina he is half tipsy, and
accosts her in such disrespectful style that she becomes enraged, and determines to give her
hand to the sergeant, and promises to marry him in a week. Meanwhile an order comes for the
departure of the sergeant's detachment, and he begs her to marry him the same day. She gives
her consent, and the second act opens with the assembling of the villagers to witness the signing
of the marriage contract. While the sergeant, Adina, and the notary have retired to sign and
witness the contract, Nemorino enters in despair, and finding Dulcamara enjoying a repast,
he implores him to give him some charm that will make Adina love him at once. Having no money,
the quack refuses to assist him, and Nemorino is again plunged into despair. At this juncture
the sergeant enters, not in the best of humor, for Adina has declined to sign the contract
until evening. Discovering that Nemorino wants money, he urges him to enlist. The bonus of
twenty crowns is a temptation. Nemorino enlists, takes the money, hurries to the quack, and
obtains a second bottle of the elixir, which is much more powerful than the first. In the next
scene the girls of the village have discovered that Nemorino's uncle has died and left him
all the property, though Nemorino himself has not heard of it. They crowd about him, trying
to attract his attention with their charms and blandishments. He attributes his sudden popularity
to the effects of the elixir, and even the quack is somewhat bewildered at the remarkable change.
Nemorino now determines to pay Adina off in kind, and at last rouses her jealousy. Meanwhile
Dulcamara acquaints her with the effects of the elixir and advises her to try some of it, and
during the interview inadvertently informs her of Nemorino's attachment for her. Struck with
his devotion, she repays the sergeant herself, announces her change of mind, and bestows her
hand upon the faithful Nemorino. Like "Don Pasquale," the opera is exceedingly graceful in
its construction, and very bright and gay in its musical effects, particularly in the duets,
of which there are two,--one between Dulcamara and Nemorino in the first act ("Obbligato, ah!
si obbligato"), and one between Dulcamara and Adina in the second act ("Quanto amore! ed io
spietata"), which are charming in their spirit and humor. There is also an admirable buffo
song in the first act, beginning with the recitative, "Udite, udite, o rustici," in which the
Doctor describes his wares to the rustics, and a beautiful romanza in the second act for tenor
("Una furtiva lagrima"), which is of world-wide popularity, and bears the same relation to
the general setting of the work that the Serenade does to "Don Pasquale."

LUCREZIA BORGIA.

"Lucrezia Borgia," an opera in three acts, words by Romani, was first produced at La Scala,
Milan, in 1834. The subject was taken from Victor Hugo's tragedy of the same name, and its
text was freely adapted by Romani. When it was produced in Paris, in 1840, Victor Hugo took
steps to suppress any further representations. The libretto was then rewritten, under the title
of "La Rinegata," the Italian characters were changed to Turks, and in this mutilated form
the performances were resumed. It was in this opera that Signor Mario made his English début,
in 1839, with great success. Its first presentation in English was at London, Dec. 30, 1843.

The history of Lucrezia Borgia, daughter of Rodrigo Borgia, afterwards Pope Alexander VI.,
and sister of Cæsar Borgia, is too well known to need recapitulation. It is necessary to the
comprehension of the story of the opera, however, to state that she had an illegitimate son,
named Genarro, who was left when an infant with a fisherman, but who subsequently entered the
Venetian army and rose to an eminent rank. The opera opens with a brilliant festival in the
gardens of the Barberigo Palace, which is attended by Genarro, Orsini, and others, all of them
cordial haters of the detestable Borgias. While they are telling tales of Lucrezia's cruel
deeds, Genarro lies down and goes to sleep, and Orsini in a spirited aria ("Nelle fatal di
Rimini") relates to his companions the story of Genarro's gallantry at the battle of Rimini.
As they leave, Lucrezia approaches, masked, in a gondola, and is received by Gubetta, with
whom she has come to Venice on some secret errand. She discovers Genarro asleep, and expresses
her delight at his beauty, and at the same time her maternal love, in a brilliant aria ("Com'e
bello"). As she kisses his hand he wakes, and in the duet which follows tells her the story
of his early life in an exquisite romanza ("Di pescatore ignobile"), which is one of the most
familiar numbers in Italian opera. He begs her to reveal her name, but she refuses. As he continues
to implore her, his friends return and denounce her to Genarro as the hated Borgia, in a concerted
number ("Chi siam noi sol chiarirla") of great dramatic power, which closes the first act.

The second act opens in the public square of Ferrara, with the palace of the Borgias on the
right. The Duke Alphonso, Lucrezia's husband, who has been observant of Lucrezia's attachment
to Genarro, vows vengeance in a passionate aria ("Vieni la mia vendetta"). In the next scene
Genarro, who has been taunted by his friends with being a victim of Lucrezia's fascinations,
recklessly rushes up to the palace door and strikes off the first letter of her name with his
dagger. When Lucrezia discovers the insult, she demands of the Duke that the guilty person
shall be arrested and condemned to death. The Duke has already seized Genarro, and agrees to
carry out his wife's demands. When the prisoner is brought before them for judgment, she is
horror-stricken to find he is her son. She implores his life, but the infuriated Duke retaliates
upon her with the declaration that she is his paramour. The duet between them ("O! a te bada"),
in which Lucrezia passes from humble entreaties to rage and menace, is a fine instance of Donizetti's
dramatic power. The Duke, however, is resolute in his determination, and will only allow her
to choose the mode of Genarro's death. She selects the Borgia wine, which is poisoned. Genarro
is called in, and after a trio ("Le ti tradisce"), which is one of the strongest numbers in
the opera, he is given the fatal draught under the pretence of a farewell greeting from the
Duke, who then leaves mother and son together. She gives him an antidote, and he is thus saved
from the fate which the Duke had intended for him.

The last act opens at a banquet in the palace of the Princess Negroni, which is attended by
Genarro and his friends, Lucrezia, meanwhile, supposing that he has gone to Venice. During
the repast she has managed to poison their wine. In the midst of the gay revel Orsini sings
the popular drinking-song, "Il segreto per esser felici," which is now familiar the world over.
The festivities are interrupted, however, by the appearance of Lucrezia, who reveals herself
with the taunting declaration: "Yes, I am Borgia. A mournful dance ye gave me in Venice, and
I return ye a supper in Ferrara." She then announces that they are poisoned. The music is changed
with great skill from the wild revelry of drinking-songs to the sombre strains of approaching
death. Five coffins are shown them, when Genarro suddenly reveals himself to Lucrezia and asks
for the sixth. The horror-stricken woman again perceives that her son has been poisoned by
her own hand. As his companions leave the apartment she implores Genarro to take the antidote
once more, and at last reveals herself as his mother. He steadily refuses to save himself,
however, since his companions have to die, and expires in her arms just as the Duke and his
followers enter. She discloses Genarro's relationship, and then dies with the despairing cry
on her lips that Heaven has pronounced its final judgment upon her. Among all of Donizetti's
operas, not one, unless it be "Lucia," is more popular than "Lucrezia Borgia," which may be
attributed to the fact that while the story itself is one of fascinating dramatic interest,
the musical numbers are simple, beautiful, and effective.

FLOTOW.

Friedrich von Flotow was born April 27, 1812, in the duchy of Mecklenberg-Schwerin, and in
1827 went to Paris, where he studied music under Reicha. His first work was "Stradella," a
mere sketch in its original form, which was brought out at the Palais Royal in 1837; but his
first public success was made in 1839, with his opera, "Le Naufrage de la Méduse," which had
a run, and was afterwards produced in Germany under the title of "Die Matrosen." "L'Esclave
de Camoens" appeared in Paris in 1843; "Stradella," rewritten as an opera, in Hamburg (1844);
"L'Âme en peine," in Paris (1846); "Martha," in Vienna (1847). The works of his later period,
which never equalled his earlier ones in popularity, were "Die Grossfürstin" (1850); "Indra"
(1853); "Rubezahl" (1854); "Hilda" (1855); "Der Müller von Meran" (1856); "La Veuve Grapin"
(1859); "L'Ombre" (1869); "Naïda" (1873); "Il Flor d'Harlem" (1876); and "Enchanteresse" (1878).
Of these later works, "L'Ombre" was the most successful, and was received with favor in France,
Italy, Spain, and England, in which latter country it was performed under the title of "The
Phantom." In 1856 he received the appointment of Intendant of the theatre of the Grand Duke
of Mecklenberg, and he entered upon his duties with high hopes of making the theatre exercise
the same influence upon music in Germany as the Weimar stage; but court intrigues and rivalries
of artists so disgusted him that he resigned in 1863 and went to Paris, and a few years later
to Vienna, where he took up his abode. Outside of a few of his operas his works are little
known, though he composed a "Fackeltanz," some incidental music to the "Winter's Tale" of Shakspeare,
and several overtures, songs, and chamber-pieces. An interesting episode in his career occurred
in 1838, when he brought out an opera in three acts, the "Duc de Guise," at the Théâtre de
la Renaissance, the libretto based upon Dumas's "Henri III." The performance was organized
by the Princess Czartoryska, for the benefit of the Poles. Mme. de Lagrange made her début
in a leading part, and the parts of the choristers were filled by duchesses and princesses
of the Faubourg St. Germain, upon whose persons two million dollars worth of diamonds were
blazing,--sufficient evidence that the performance was brilliant in at least one sense. He
died at Wiesbaden, Jan. 24, 1883.

MARTHA.

"Martha," an opera in three acts, libretto by St. Georges, translated into German by Friedrich,
was first produced at Vienna, Nov. 25, 1847, with Mlle. Anna Zerr in the title-rôle, Herr Ander
as Lionel, and Carl Formes as Plunkett. It was first produced in English and Italian at London
in 1858, and in French at Paris in 1865. The history of its origin is interesting. M. de St.
Georges, at the request of the manager of the Paris Grand Opera, wrote in 1842 the libretto
to a ballet entitled "Lady Henrietta, or the Servant of Greenwich," the subject being suggested
to him by the adventures of two ladies of his acquaintance who had mingled with servants at
a fair. The music was confided to three composers. The first act was given to Herr von Flotow,
the second to Herr Burgmuller, and the third to M. Deldeves. The ballet had such a remarkable
success, and Flotow was so delighted with the plot, that he entreated St. Georges to rewrite
it for an opera. The latter consented, and the result of their collaboration was the appearance
of one of the most popular operas which has ever been placed upon the stage.

The scene of the opera is laid at Richmond, England, and the time is during the reign of Queen
Anne, though the Italian version places it in the fifteenth century, and the French in the
nineteenth. Lady Henrietta, an attendant upon the Queen, tired of the amusements of court life,
contrives a plan to visit the servants' fair at Richmond disguised as a servant-girl, and accompanied
by Nancy, her maid, and Sir Tristan, her somewhat aged cousin, who is also her devoted admirer.
In the first three scenes their plans are laid much to the disgust of Sir Tristan, who is to
pass as John, while his fair cousin masquerades as Martha. The duet between the ladies ("Of
the Knights so brave and charming"), and the trio with Tristan, are in dance time, and full
of animation. The fourth scene opens in the market-place at Richmond, where the people are
gathering to the fair. Thither also resort Plunkett, a farmer, and Lionel, his brother by adoption,
whose parentage is unknown, and who has no souvenir of his father except a ring which has been
left for him, with instructions to present it to the Queen if he ever finds himself in trouble.
Lionel tells his story in an aria ("Lost, proscribed, an humble Stranger") which is universally
popular, and the melody of which has been set to various words. They have come to the fair
to procure help for their farm. While the sheriff, according to law, is binding the girls for
a year's service, Plunkett and Lionel meet Martha and Nancy, and are so delighted with their
appearance that they tender them the customary bonus, or "earnest-money," which secures them.
Too late for escape, they find that they are actually engaged, and they are obliged to drive
away with the young farmers, leaving Sir Tristan in despair.

The second act opens in the farm-house, where the four have arrived. The farmers inquire their
names, and seek to find out what they can do, testing them first at the spinning-wheel. The
spinning quartet ("When the Foot the Wheel turns lightly") is very gay and full of humor, and
is one of the most delightful concerted numbers in the opera. The brothers soon find that their
new servants are useless, but they are so pleased with them that they decide to keep them.
At last Nancy, in a pet, kicks her wheel over and runs off, followed by Plunkett. Lionel, left
alone with Martha, grows very tender to the new servant, and at last finds himself violently
in love. He snatches a rose from her bosom, and refuses to return it unless she will consent
to sing. She replies with the familiar ballad, "'Tis the last Rose of Summer," which Flotow
has interpolated in this scene, and in the performance of which he makes a charming effect
by introducing the tenor in the close. Her singing only makes him the more desperately enamoured,
and he asks her to be his wife on the spot, only to find himself the victim of Martha's sport,
although his devotion and sincerity have made a deep impression upon her. Plunkett and Nancy
at last return, and another charming quartet follows ("Midnight sounds"), better known as the
"Good Night Quartet." The two brothers retire, but Martha and Nancy, aided by Tristan, who
has followed them and discovered their whereabouts, make good their escape. The next scene
opens in the woods, where several farmers are drinking and carousing, among them Plunkett,
who sings a rollicking drinking-song ("I want to ask you"). Their sport is interrupted by a
hunting-party, composed of the Queen and her court ladies. Plunkett and Lionel recognize their
fugitive servants among them, though the ladies disclaim all knowledge of them. Plunkett attempts
to seize Nancy, but the huntresses attack him and chase him away, leaving Lionel and Lady Henrietta
together again. The scene contains two of the most beautiful numbers in the opera,--the tenor
solo, "Like a Dream bright and fair" ("M' appari" in the Italian version), and a romance for
soprano ("Here in deepest forest Shadows"); and the act closes with a beautiful concerted finale,
quintet and chorus, which is worked up with great power. In this finale the despairing Lionel
bethinks him of his ring. He gives it to Plunkett, desiring him to present it to the Queen.
By means of the jewel it is discovered that he is the only son of the late Earl of Derby, and
she orders his estates, of which he has been unjustly deprived, to be restored to him.

The last act is not important in a musical sense, for the climax is attained in the previous
finale. The dramatic dénouement is soon reached, and the Lady Henrietta, who has for some time
been seriously in love with Lionel, is at last united to him; and it is almost needless to
add that the fortunes of Plunkett and Nancy are also joined. The charm of "Martha" is its liveliness
in action and tunefulness in music. Though not a great opera from a musical point of view,
it is one of the most popular in the modern repertory, and though few others have been performed
so many times, it still retains that popularity. Its melodies, though sung in every country
of the civilized world by amateurs and professional artists, have not yet lost their charms.

STRADELLA.

"Stradella," a romantic opera in three acts, was first written as a lyric drama and produced
at the Palais Royal Theatre, Paris, in 1837, and was subsequently rewritten in its present
form under the title of "Alessandro Stradella" and produced at Hamburg, Dec. 30, 1844. The
English version, which was somewhat altered by Bunn, was produced in London, June 6, 1846.
The story follows the historic narrative of Stradella, the Italian musician, except in the
dénouement. Stradella woos and wins Leonora, the fair ward of Bassi, a rich Venetian nobleman,
with whom the latter is himself in love. They fly to Rome and are married. Bassi hires two
bravoes, Barbarino and Malvolio, to follow them and kill Stradella. They track him to his house,
and while the bridal party are absent enter and conceal themselves, Bassi being with them.
Upon this occasion, however, they do not wait to accomplish their purpose. Subsequently they
gain admission again in the guise of pilgrims, and are hospitably received by Stradella. In
the next scene Stradella, Leonora, and the two bravoes are together in the same apartment,
singing the praises of their native Italy. During their laudations the chorus of a band of
pilgrims on their way to the shrine of the Virgin is heard, and Leonora and Stradella go out
to greet them. The bravoes have been so moved by Stradella's singing that they hesitate in
their purpose. Bassi enters and upbraids them, and finally, by the proffer of a still larger
sum, induces them to consent to carry out his design. They conceal themselves. Stradella returns
and rehearses a hymn to the Virgin which he is to sing at the festivities on the morrow. Its
exquisite beauty touches them so deeply that they rush out of their hiding-place, and falling
at his feet confess the object of their visit and implore his forgiveness. Leonora enters,
and is astonished to find her guardian present. Explanations follow, a reconciliation is effected,
and the lovers are happy. The dénouement differs from the historical story, which, according
to Bonnet, Bourdelot, and others, ends with the death of the lovers at Genoa, at the hands
of the hired assassins.

The opera is one of the most charming of Flotow's works for its apt union of very melodious
music with dramatic interest. Its most beautiful numbers are Stradella's serenade ("Horch,
Liebchen, horch!"), the following nocturne ("Durch die Thäler, über Hügel"), the brilliant
and animated carnival chorus ("Freudesausen, Jubelbrausen") of the masqueraders who assist
in the elopement, in the first act; the aria of Leonora in her bridal chamber ("Seid meiner
Wonne"), the rollicking drinking-song of the two bravoes ("'Raus mit dem Nass aus dem Fass")
and the bandit ballad ("Tief in den Abruzzen ") sung by Stradella, in the second act; an exquisite
terzetto ("Sag doch an, Freund Barbarino") sung by Bassi and the two bravoes when they hesitate
to perform their work, and Stradella's lovely hymn to the Virgin ("Jungfrau Maria! Himmlisch
verklärte"), in the last act.

GLUCK.

Christoph Willibald Gluck, one of the most eminent of German operatic composers, was born at
Weidenwang in the Upper Palatinate, July 2, 1714. He began his musical studies in a Bohemian
Jesuits' School at the age of twelve. In his eighteenth year he went to Prague, where he continued
his education with Czernhorsky. Four years later he was fortunate enough to secure Prince Melzi
for a patron, who sent him to Milan, where he completed his studies with Sammartini. From 1741
to 1745 he produced numerous operas, which were well received, and in the latter year visited
London, where he brought out several works, among them "La Caduta de' Giganti." His English
experience was far from satisfactory, and he soon returned to Germany, stopping at Paris on
the way, where Rameau's operas had a strong influence upon him. From 1746 to 1762 he wrote
a large number of operas, with varying success so far as performance was concerned, but with
great and lasting benefit to his style and fame, as was shown when his "Orpheus" was first
produced, Oct. 5, 1762. Its success determined him at once to acquaint the musical world with
his purpose to reform the opera by making it dramatically musical instead of purely lyric,
thus paving the way for the great innovator of Baireuth. "Alceste," produced in 1767, was the
first embodiment of these ideas. Strong criticism greeted it, to which he replied with "Iphigénie
en Aulide," written in 1772, and performed for the first time in Paris two years later, under
the auspices of Marie Antoinette, who had once been his pupil. It was followed by "Orpheus
and Eurydice," adapted from his earlier work of the same name, which met with brilliant success.
In 1777 he brought out "Armide." It aroused an unprecedented excitement. Piccini was at that
time in Paris. He was the representative of the old Italian school. His partisans gathered
about him, and a furious war was waged between the Gluckists and Piccinists for three or four
years; the combatants displaying a bitterness of criticism and invective even worse than that
which Wagner brought down upon his devoted head. When Gluck brought out his great work, "Iphigénie
en Tauride," in 1779, however, the Piccinists quitted the field and acknowledged the reformer's
superiority. "Echo et Narcisse" was written in the same year, but "Iphigénie en Tauride" was
his last great work. He retired shortly afterwards to Vienna, where he died Nov. 15, 1787.

ORPHEUS.

"Orpheus," the libretto by the Italian poet Calzabigi, was first produced at Vienna, Oct. 5,
1762, and for the first time outlined the new ideas which Gluck had advanced for the reform
of the lyric stage. Twelve years later the composer revised the work. Several new numbers were
added, its acts were extended to three, and the principal rôle was rewritten for a high tenor
in place of the alto, to whom it had been originally assigned. In this form it was brought
out at the Paris Académie, Aug. 2, 1774. In 1859 it was revived in Paris, for which occasion
Berlioz restored the original alto part for Mme. Viardot-Garcia. With its performances in this
country by the American Opera Troupe during the season of 1885-86, under the direction of Mr.
Theodore Thomas, our readers are already familiar. The three soloists during that season were
Helene Hastreiter, Emma Juch, and Minnie Dilthey.

The story, except in its denouement, closely follows the antique legend. After performing the
funeral rites of Eurydice, Orpheus resolves to seek for her in the world of Shades, having
received permission from Zeus upon condition that he will not look upon her until they have
safely returned. Orpheus descends to Hades; and though his way is barred by phantoms, his pleading
appeals and the tender tones of his harp induce them to make way for him. He finds Eurydice
in the Elysian fields, and taking her by the hand leads her on to the upper world. In a fatal
moment he yields to her desire to see him, and she sinks back lifeless. Love, however, comes
to the rescue, and full of compassion restores her. Thus the happy lovers are reunited; and
the opera closes without the tragic denouement of the old myth. In the American performances
the opera was divided into four acts, which is the order we shall follow.

The short overture is characterized by a grandeur and solemnity that well befit the pathetic
story. The curtain rises upon a grotto containing the tomb of Eurydice, against which Orpheus
mournfully leans, while upon its steps youths and maidens are strewing flowers as they chant
the sombre song, "Ah! in our still and mournful Meadow." The sad wail of Orpheus upon the single
word "Eurydice" is heard through its strains, which continually increase in solemnity. At last,
as if too much to bear, Orpheus interrupts their threnody with the words, "The Sounds of your
Lament increase my bitter Anguish." The chorus in reply resumes its melancholy tribute to Eurydice
and then retires, leaving Orpheus alone, who in a monologue full of pathos and sorrow ("My
Eurydice! my Eurydice! lost forever"), sings his grief and implores the gods to restore his
loved one. In answer to his prayer, Amor, god of love, appears and announces that the gods
have been moved to compassion; and if his song and lyre can appease the phantoms, death shall
give back Eurydice upon the conditions already named. The act closes with the joyful song of
Orpheus: "Will pitying Heaven with wondrous Favor restore mine own?"

The second act opens in the abysses of the underworld. Flames shoot up amid great masses of
rock and from yawning caverns, throwing their lurid glare upon the phantoms, who writhing in
furious indignation demand in wild and threatening chorus, as the tones of Orpheus's lyre are
heard, "Who through this awful Place, thinking alive to pass, rashly dares venture here?" Madly
they call upon Cerberus "to kill thy new Prey here." The barking of the triple-headed monster
is heard in the tones of the orchestra. They surround Orpheus as he approaches, and with renewed
clamor continue this thrilling chorus. In the midst of its cruel intensity is heard the appealing
voice of Orpheus ("In Pity be moved by my Grief"). With overwhelming wrath comes the reiterated
monosyllable, "No," from the Furies,--one of the most daring and powerful effects ever made
in dramatic music,--followed by another appalling chorus, as they announce to him, "These are
the Depths of Hell, where the Avengers dwell." At last they are touched by the charm of his
music and the sorrow of his story; and as their fury dies away, the song of Orpheus grows more
exultant as he contemplates the reunion with Eurydice.

The gates of the lower world are opened, and in the third act Orpheus enters Elysium. The scene
begins with a tender, lovely song by Eurydice and her companions ("In this tranquil and lovely
Abode of the Blest"), the melody taken by the flute with string accompaniment. All is bright
and cheerful and in striking contrast with the gloom and terror of the Stygian scene we have
just left. After a short recitative ("How mild a Day, without a Noon"), Orpheus seeks her.
She is brought to him by a crowd of shadows; and breaking out in joyful song he takes her by
the hand and turns his face to the upper world.

The fourth act is almost entirely an impassioned duet between Orpheus and Eurydice. He releases
her hand for fear that he may turn and look upon her. Eurydice chides him ("Am I changed or
grown old that thou wilt not behold me?"). In vain he urges her to follow him. She upbraids
him for his coldness, and demands one glance as a test of his love. He still refuses, and then
she sorrowfully bids him farewell. At last, overcome with weariness and sorrow, he gazes upon
her; and at that instant she falls lifeless. Then Orpheus breaks out in that immortal song,
the Che faro senza Eurydice ("I have lost my Eurydice"), the beauty and pathos of which neither
time nor change of musical custom can ever mar. He is about to take his life with his sword;
but Amor suddenly appears upon the scene, stays his hand, and tells him the gods are moved
by his sufferings. He restores Eurydice to life, and the opera closes with a beautiful terzetto
in Love's temple. The denouement is followed by ballet music.

GOETZ.

Hermann Goetz, to whose life attaches a mournful interest, was born at Koenigsberg, Dec. 17,
1840. He had no regular instruction in music until his seventeenth year. At that period he
began his studies with Köhler, and then passed successively under the tuition of Stern, Ulrich,
and Von Bülow. At the age of twenty-three he obtained a position as organist at Winterthur,
and also taught at Zurich. It was during this time that he composed his opera, "The Taming
of the Shrew," meanwhile supporting himself as he best could, sometimes struggling with actual
poverty. For years he attempted to secure a hearing for his opera; but it was not until 1874
that its great merit was recognized, for in that year it was produced at Mannheim with instant
success. Its fame travelled all over Germany. It was performed in Vienna in 1875, and the same
year in Leipsic and Berlin, and reached London in 1878. It was not heard in this country until
the season of 1885-86, when it was produced by the American Opera Company. The composer did
not live long enough, however, to enjoy the fruits of his work, as he died in 1876. He also
left behind him an unfinished score of a second opera, "Francesca di Rimini," which was completed
by his friend Franke at his request, but proved a failure. His other works include a symphony
in F, a suite for orchestra, and many chamber compositions.

THE TAMING OF THE SHREW.

"The Taming of the Shrew," as related in the sketch of the composer's life, was written about
the year 1863, and first produced at Mannheim in 1872. Its first performance in this country
was in January, 1886, when the cast was as follows:--

  KATHARINE     PAULINE L'ALLEMAND.
  BIANCA        KATE BENSBERG.
  PETRUCHIO     WILLIAM H. LEE.
  BAPTISTA      W.H. HAMILTON.
  LUCENTIO      W.H. FESSENDEN.
  HORTENSIO     ALONZO STODDARD.
  A TAILOR      JOHN HOWSON.

The libretto is freely adapted from Shakspeare's comedy by Joseph Victor Widmann. The plot
is very simple. Baptista, a rich Paduan gentleman, has two daughters,--Katharine, the shrew,
and Bianca, of sweet and lovable disposition. Both Hortensio and Lucentio are in love with
Bianca; but the obdurate father will not listen to either until Katharine shall have been married.
In this apparently hopeless situation a gleam of comfort appears, in the suit which the rich
gallant Petruchio, of Verona, pays to Katharine, in disgust with the sycophants who have been
manifesting such deference to his wealth. The remainder of the story is occupied with the details
of the various processes by which he breaks and tames the shrew, and the ingenious ruse by
which Lucentio gains the hand of the lovely Bianca.

The curtain rises upon a night scene in Padua, with Lucentio before Bianca's house singing
a melodious serenade. Its strains are interrupted, however, by a hurly-burly in the house,
caused by the shrew's demonstrations. The tumult is transferred to the street, and gives occasion
for a very vigorous ensemble. When the crowd disperses, Lucentio resumes his serenade, Bianca
appears upon the balcony, and the two join in a very pleasing duet. This number is also interrupted
by Hortensio, at the head of a band of street musicians, who has also come to serenade his
mistress. The encounter of the two lovers brings on a quarrel, which is averted, however, by
the interposition of Baptista. A duet follows between them, at the close of which Lucentio
retires. Petruchio now appears upon the scene, and learns from Hortensio of Katharine's vixenish
disposition, which determines him to woo her. With a stirring song ("She is a Wife for such
a Man created"), the act comes to an end.

The second act opens in a chamber in Baptista's house, where Katharine is berating Bianca for
accepting serenades from suitors, and abuses her even to blows. The scene closes with a vigorous
song for Katharine ("I'll give myself to no one"), which is greeted with cynical applause by
Petruchio, Baptista, Lucentio, and Hortensio, who enter, the last two disguised as teachers.
In the next scene, Petruchio and Katharine alone, we have the turbulent wooing, which is accompanied
throughout by characteristic music. As the others return Petruchio announces his success in
the song, "All is well," the theme of which is taken by the quintet, closing the act.

The third is the most interesting act of the three. It opens on the day selected for the wedding
of Katharine and Petruchio, in Baptista's garden; the first number being a charming quintet
for Katharine, Bianca, Lucentio, Hortensio, and Baptista. The guests are present, but Petruchio
is not there. An explanation is made, followed by a chorus as the guests leave; and then Bianca
is free to take her lessons, in one of which Lucentio makes his avowal of love to her. The
arrangement of the two lessons is both unique and skilful. Lucentio turns the familiar opening
lines of the Æneid, "Arma virumque cano," etc., into a love-song by declarations interposed
between them; while Hortensio explains the mysteries of the scale to her, each line of his
love-song beginning with one of its letters. It is soon found, however, that Lucentio is the
accepted lover. Baptista now enters and announces Petruchio's return, which leads to a charming
quartet. The finale of the opera, which is very spirited, includes the preparations for the
marriage-feast, the wedding, and the scene in which Petruchio abruptly forces his bride to
leave with him for his country house.

GOLDMARK.

Karl Goldmark was born at Keszthely, Hungary, May 18, 1832. He first studied with the violinist
Jansa at Vienna, and in his fifteenth year entered the Conservatory in that city. Little is
known of the events of his early life. Indeed, his success in his profession is generally credited
more to his native ability and industry than to the influence of teachers or schools. He began
composition at an early period, and produced his works in concerts with much success under
the encouragement of Hellmesberger and others, who recognized his ability before he had made
any impression out of Vienna. Four of his compositions during the past fifteen years, the "Sakuntala"
overture, the operas "The Queen of Sheba" and "Merlin," and "Die Iändliche Hochzeit" (The Country
Wedding) symphony have made a permanent reputation for him. The overture and operas have been
performed several times in this country. Besides these he has written several pieces of chamber
music.

THE QUEEN OF SHEBA.

"The Queen of Sheba" was first produced in Vienna, March 10, 1875, and was first heard in this
country at New York, Dec. 2, 1885, when the cast was as follows:--

  KING SOLOMON     Herr ROBINSON.
  HIGH-PRIEST      Herr FISCHER.
  SULAMITH         Fraülein LEHMANN.
  ASSAD            Herr STRITT.
  BAAL HANAN       Herr ALEXI.
  QUEEN OF SHEBA   Frau KRAMER-WEIDL.
  ASTAROTH         Fraülein BRANDT.

The libretto by Mosenthal is one of rare excellence in its skilful treatment of situations
and arrangement of scenes with the view to spectacular and dramatic effect. The Biblical story
has but little to do with the action of the opera beyond the mere fact of the famous visit
of the Queen of Sheba to Solomon. The stirring episodes during the journey and the visit spring
from the librettist's imagination. The story in substance is as follows:--

King Solomon, learning of the Queen's intention to visit him, sends his favorite courtier Assad
to escort her. While she waits outside the gates of Jerusalem, Assad announces her arrival
to the King and Sulamith, the daughter of the high-priest, to whom the courtier is affianced.
Observing his disturbed looks, the King, after dismissing his attendants, inquires the cause.
Assad replies that on their journey through the forest he had encountered a nymph bathing whose
beauty had so impressed him as to banish even the thoughts of his affianced. The wise Solomon
counsels him to marry Sulamith at once. Meanwhile the Queen comes into the King's presence,
and as she lifts her veil reveals the unknown fair one. She affects ignorance of Assad's passion;
but when she learns that he is to wed Sulamith love for him springs up in her own breast. Upon
the day of the wedding ceremony Assad, carried away by his longing for the Queen, declares
her to be his divinity, and is condemned to death for profaning the Temple. Both the Queen
and Sulamith appeal to the King for mercy. He consents at last to save his life, but banishes
him to the desert. The Queen seeks him there, and makes an avowal of her love; but Assad repulses
her. As Sulamith comes upon the scene a simoom sweeps across the desert. They perish in each
other's arms; while in a mirage the Queen and her attendants are seen journeying to their home.

The first act opens in the great hall of Solomon's palace with a brilliant, joyous chorus ("Open
the Halls, adorn the Portals") in praise of the King's glory. After the entrance of the high-priest,
Sulamith sings a fascinating bridal song ("My own Assad returns"), richly oriental both in
music and sentiment, dreamy and luxurious in its tone, and yet full of joyous expectation,
with characteristic choral refrain and dainty accompaniment. The fourth and fifth scenes are
full of agitation and unrest, and lead up to Assad's explanation of his perturbed condition
("At Lebanon's Foot I met Arabia's Queen"), a monologue aria of rich glowing color and reaching
a fine dramatic climax as it progresses from its sensuous opening to the passionate intensity
of its finale. It is followed by the entrance of the Queen, accompanied by a brilliant march
and a jubilant chorus ("To the Sun of the South our Welcome we bring") and a stirring concerted
number, describing the recognition of the Queen by Assad; after which the chorus resumes its
jubilant strain, bringing the act to a close.

The second act opens in the gardens of the palace and discloses the Queen, who gives expression
to her love for Assad and her hatred of Sulamith in an impassioned aria ("Let me from the festal
Splendor"). In the second scene Astaroth, her slave, appears and lures Assad by a weird strain,
which is one of the most effective passages in the opera ("As the Heron calls in the Reeds").
After a short arioso by Assad ("Magical Sounds, intoxicating Fragrance"), a passionate duet
with the Queen follows, interrupted by the call of the Temple-guard to prayer. The scene changes
to the interior of the sanctuary with its religious service; and with it the music changes
also to solemn Hebrew melodies with the accompaniment of the sacred instruments, leading up
to the stirring finale in which Assad declares his passion for the Queen, amid choruses of
execration by the people.

The third act opens in the banquet-hall upon a scene of festivity introduced by the graceful
bee dance of the Almas. It is followed by the powerful appeal of the Queen for Assad's life,
rising to an intensely dramatic pitch as she warns the King of the revenge of her armed hosts
("When Sheba's iron Lances splinter and Zion's Throne in Ruins falls"). In sad contrast comes
the mournful chant which accompanies Sulamith as she passes to the vestal's home ("The Hour
that robbed me of him"), and ends in her despairing cry rising above the chorus of attendants
as Solomon also refuses her petition.

The last act passes in the desert. Assad beneath a solitary palm-tree laments the destiny which
pursues him ("Whither shall I wend my weary Steps?"). In the next scene the Queen appears,
and an agitated duet follows, ending with her repulse. Assad in despair calls upon death to
relieve him. The sky darkens. Clouds of sand envelop the fugitive. The palm bends before the
blast as the simoom sweeps by. The storm at last subsides. The sky grows brighter; and the
Queen and her attendants, with their elephants and camels, appear in a mirage journeying eastward
as Sulamith and her lover expire in each other's arms. As their duet dies away, the chorus
of maidens brings the act to a close with a few strains from the love-song in the first act.

MERLIN.

The opera of "Merlin" was first performed at Vienna, Nov. 17, 1886, and was heard for the first
time in this country at New York, Jan. 3, 1887, under the direction of Mr. Walter Damrosch,
with the following cast:--

  KING ARTHUR        Herr ROBINSON.
  MODRED             Herr KEMLITZ.
  LANCELOT           Herr BURSCH.
  GAWEIN             Herr HEINRICH.
  GLENDOWER          Herr VON MILDE.
  MERLIN             Herr ALVARY.
  VIVIANE            Fraülein LEHMANN.
  BEDWYR             Herr SIEGLITZ.
  THE FAY MORGANA    Fraülein BRANDT.
  THE DEMON          Herr FISCHER.

The libretto of the opera is by Siegfried Lipiner. The scene is laid in Wales, and the hero,
Merlin, is familiar as one of the knights of King Arthur's round-table. The story is as follows:--

The Devil, ambitious to banish all good from the world, unites himself to a virgin in order
that he may beget a child who shall aid him in his fell purpose. The child is Merlin, who partakes
of the mother's goodness, and instead of aiding his father, seeks to thwart his design. The
Devil thereupon consults the Fay Morgana, who tells him that Merlin will lose his power if
he falls in love. In the opening scene King Arthur sends Lancelot to Merlin for aid, who promises
him victory and achieves it by the assistance of his familiar, a demon, who is in league with
the Devil. Tired of his service to Merlin, the demon contrives to have him meet the beautiful
Viviane, with whom he falls in love. The second act transpires in Merlin's enchanted garden,
and reveals his growing passion, and at the same time his waning power of magic; for when once
more Arthur summons his aid he attempts to tear himself away from her only to realize his weakness.
She seeks to detain him by throwing a magic veil over him which has been given her by the demon;
in an instant the scene changes, and Merlin appears confined to a rock by fiery chains, while
the demon mocks him from a neighboring eminence, and Viviane gives way to anguish. In the last
act Viviane is told by the Fay Morgana that Merlin's release can only be secured by woman's
self-sacrifice. Once more an appeal for help comes to him from Arthur, and he promises his
soul to the demon in exchange for his freedom. His chains fall off. He rushes into the battle
and secures the victory, but is fatally wounded. The demon claims him; but Viviane, remembering
the words of the Fay Morgana, stabs herself and thus balks him of his expectant prey.

Like Wagner's operas, "Merlin" has its motives, the principal ones being that of the demon,
or the evil principle, and two love motives. In its general treatment it is also Wagnerish.
The first scene opens with the spirited message of Lancelot to Glendower, beseeching Merlin's
aid for the hard-pressed Arthur. It is followed by the strains of Merlin's harp in the castle
and his assurance of victory, and these in turn by very descriptive incantation music summoning
the demon and the supernatural agencies which will compass the defeat of Arthur's enemies.
Then comes the interview between the demon and the Fay Morgana, in which he learns the secret
of Merlin's weakness. In the next scene Arthur returns from his victory over the Saxons to
the tempo of a stirring march, and accompanied by the joyous choruses of women. A vigorous
episode, in which Bedwyr, one of Arthur's knights, is charged with treachery, is followed by
Merlin's chant of victory with chorus accompaniment. As its strains die away a distant horn
announces Viviane, who makes her appearance singing a breezy hunting song with her maidens,
leading up to a spirited septet. Then follows the baffled attempt of Viviane to crown Merlin,
the scene closing with a repetition of the chant of victory and the choruses of jubilation.

The second act opens in the enchanted gardens of Merlin; and the first scene reveals a conspiracy
to seize the crown during Arthur's absence and proclaim Modred king, and the farewell of Arthur
and his suite to Merlin. The magic-veil scene follows with its fascinating dance tempos, and
leads with its graceful measures up to the passionate love-scene between Merlin and Viviane,
which is harshly broken in upon by the clash of arms between Modred and his perfidious companions
and the faithful friends of Arthur. A dramatic scene of great energy follows, in which Viviane
at last throws the magic veil around Merlin with the transforming results already told.

The last act opens with Viviane's mournful lament for the wretched fate which she has brought
down upon her lover, and the announcement of the means by which he may be released made to
her in slumber by the Fay Morgana. Her maidens seek to rouse her with choral appeals, in which
are heard phrases of her hunting song. Meanwhile mocking spirits appear about Merlin and taunt
him in characteristic music. Then follows the compact with the demon, which releases him. He
rushes into the battle accompanied by an exultant song from Viviane; but soon the funeral march,
as his followers bear him from the field, tells the mournful story of his fate. A very dramatic
ensemble contains the deed of self-sacrifice, by which Viviane ends her life to redeem Merlin
from the demon, and with this powerful effect the opera closes. He studied music in the Conservatory,
under the direction of Halevy, Lesueur, and Paer, and in 1839 obtained the first prize, and,
under the usual regulations, went to Italy. While at Rome he devoted himself largely to religious
music. On his return to Paris he became organist of the Missions Étrangères, and for a time
seriously thought of taking orders. In 1851, however, he brought out his first opera, "Sappho,"
which met with success. At this point his active career began. In 1852 he became conductor
of the Orphéon, and wrote the choruses for Ponsard's tragedy of "Ulysse." The year 1854 brought
a five-act opera, "La Nonne Sanglante," founded on a legend in Lewis's "Monk." In 1858 he made
his first essay in opera comique, and produced "Le Médecin malgré lui," which met with remarkable
success. The next year "Faust" was performed, and placed him in the front rank of living composers.
"Philémon et Baucis" appeared in 1860, and "La Reine de Saba," which was afterwards performed
in English as "Irene," in 1862. In 1863 he brought out the pretty pastoral opera "Mireille."
This was succeeded in 1866 by "La Colombe," known in English as "The Pet Dove," and in 1867
by "Roméo et Juliette." In 1877 he produced "Cinq Mars," and in 1878 his last opera, "Polyeucte."
He has also written much church music, the more important works being the "Messe Solenelle,"
a "Stabat Mater," the oratorio "Tobie," a "De Profundis," an "Ave Verum," and many single hymns
and songs, among which "Nazareth" is universally popular. His list of compositions for orchestra
is also very large, and includes such popular pieces as the "Saltarello," "Funeral March of
a Marionette," and the Meditation, based on Bach's First Prelude, which is accompanied by a
soprano solo. He was elected a member of the Institut de France in 1866.

FAUST.

"Faust," a grand opera in five acts, words by Barbier and Carré, founded upon Goethe's tragedy,
was first produced at the Théâtre Lyrique, Paris, March 19, 1859, with the following cast of
the principal parts:--

  MARGUERITE        Mme. MIOLAN-CARVALHO.
  SIEBEL            Mlle. FAIVRE.
  FAUST             M. BARBOT.
  VALENTIN          M. REGNAL.
  MEPHISTOPHELES    M. BALANQUÉ.
  MARTHA            Mme. DUCLOS.

The opera was first produced in London as "Faust," June 11, 1863; in English, Jan. 23, 1864;
and in Germany as "Margarethe."

The story of the opera follows Goethe's tragedy very closely, and is confined to the first
part. It may be briefly told. Faust, an aged German student, satiated with human knowledge
and despairing of his ability to unravel the secrets of nature, summons the evil spirit Mephistopheles
to his assistance, and contracts to give him his soul in exchange for a restoration to youth.
Mephistopheles effects the transformation, and reveals to him the vision of Marguerite, a beautiful
village maiden, with whom Faust at once falls in love. They set out upon their travels and
encounter her at the Kermesse. She has been left by her brother Valentin, a soldier, in care
of Dame Martha, who proves herself a careless guardian. Their first meeting is a casual one;
but subsequently he finds her in her garden, and with the help of the subtle Mephistopheles
succeeds in engaging the young girl's affection. Her simple lover, Siebel, is discarded, and
his nosegay is thrown away at sight of the jewels with which Faust tempts her. When Valentin
returns from the wars he learns of her temptation and subsequent ruin. He challenges the seducer,
and in the encounter is slain by the intervention of Mephistopheles. Overcome by the horror
of her situation, Marguerite becomes insane, and in her frenzy kills her child. She is thrown
into prison, where Faust and Mephistopheles find her. Faust urges her to fly with them, but
she refuses, and places her reliance for salvation upon earnest prayer, and sorrow for the
wrong she has done. Pleading for forgiveness, she expires; and as Mephistopheles exults at
the catastrophe he has wrought, angels appear amid the music of the celestial choirs and bear
the sufferer to heaven.

The first act is in the nature of a prelude, and opens with a long soliloquy ("Interrogo invano")
by Faust, in which he laments the unsatisfactoriness of life. It is interwoven with delightful
snatches of chorus heard behind the scenes, a duet with Mephistopheles ("Ma il ciel"), and
the delicate music accompanying the vision of Marguerite.

The second act is contained in a single setting, the Kermesse, in which the chorus plays an
important part. In the first scene the choruses of students, soldiers, old men, girls, and
matrons are quaintly contrasted, and are full of animation and characteristic color. In the
second, Valentin sings a tender song ("O santa medaglia") to a medallion of his sister which
he wears as a charm. It is followed by a grim and weird drinking-song ("Dio dell' or"), sung
by Mephistopheles. The latter then strikes fire from the fountain into his cup, and proposes
the health of Marguerite. Valentin springs forward to resent the insult, only to find his sword
broken in his hands. The students and soldiers recognize the spirit of evil, and overcome him
by presenting the hilts of their swords in the form of a cross, the scene being accompanied
by one of the most effective choruses in the work ("Tu puvi la spada"). The tempter gone, the
scene resumes its gayety, and the act closes with one of the most animated and delightful of
waltz tempos ("Come la brezza").

The third act is the Garden scene, full of fascinating detail, and breathes the very spirit
of poetry and music combined in a picture of love which has never been excelled in tenderness
and beauty on the operatic stage. Its principal numbers are a short and simple but very beautiful
ballad for Siebel ("La parlate d'amor"); a passionate aria for tenor ("Salve dimora casta e
pura"), in which Faust greets Marguerite's dwelling; a double number, which is superb in its
contrasts,--the folk-song, "C'era un re di Thule," a plaintive little ballad sung at the spinning-wheel
by Marguerite, and the bravura jewel-song, "Ah! e' strano poter," which is the very essence
of delicacy and almost-childish glee; the quartet commencing, "V'appogiato al bracchio mio,"
which is of striking interest by the independent manner in which the two pairs of voices are
treated and combined in the close; and the closing duet ("Sempre amar") between Faust and Marguerite,
which is replete with tenderness and passion, and closes in strains of almost ecstatic rapture,
the fatal end of which is foreshadowed by the mocking laugh of Mephistopheles breaking in upon
its lingering cadences.

The fourth act is known as the Cathedral act, and established Gounod's reputation as a writer
of serious music. It opens with a scena for Marguerite, who has been taunted by the girls at
the fountain ("Nascose eran là le crudeli "), in which she laments her sad fate. The scene
abruptly changes to the square in front of the cathedral, where the soldiers, Valentin among
them, are returning, to the jubilant though somewhat commonplace strains of the march, "Deponiam
il branda." As the soldiers retire and Valentin goes in quest of Marguerite, Faust and Mephistopheles
appear before the house, and the latter sings a grotesque and literally infernal serenade ("Tu,
che fai l' addormentata"). Valentin appears and a quarrel ensues, leading up to a spirited
trio. Valentin is slain, and with his dying breath pronounces a malediction ("Margherita! maledetta")
upon his sister. The scene changes to the church, and in wonderful combination we hear the
appeals of Marguerite for mercy, the taunting voice of the tempter, and the monkish chanting
of the "Dies Irae" mingled with the solemn strains of the organ.

The last act is usually presented in a single scene, the Prison, but it contains five changes.
After a weird prelude, the Walpurgis revel begins, in which short, strange phrases are heard
from unseen singers. The night scene changes to a hall of pagan enchantment, and again to the
Brocken, where the apparition of Marguerite is seen. The orgy is resumed, when suddenly by
another transformation we are taken to the prison where Marguerite is awaiting death. It is
unnecessary to give its details. The scene takes the form of a terzetto, which is worked up
with constantly increasing power to a climax of passionate energy, and at last dies away as
Marguerite expires. It stands almost alone among effects of this kind in opera. The curtain
falls upon a celestial chorus of apotheosis, the vision of the angels, and Mephistopheles cowering
in terror before the heavenly messengers.

ROMEO AND JULIET.

"Roméo et Juliette," a grand opera in five acts, words by Barbier and Carré, the subject taken
from Shakspeare's tragedy of the same name, was first produced at the Théâtre Lyrique, Paris,
April 27, 1867, with Mme. Miolan-Carvalho in the rôle of Juliet. The story as told by the French
dramatists in the main follows Shakspeare's tragedy very closely in its construction as well
as in its dialogue. It is only necessary, therefore, to sketch its outlines. The first act
opens with the festival at the house of Capulet. Juliet and Romeo meet there and fall in love,
notwithstanding her betrothal to Paris. The hot-blooded Tybalt seeks to provoke a quarrel with
Romeo, but is restrained by Capulet himself, and the act comes to a close with a resumption
of the merry festivities. In the second act we have the balcony scene, quite literally taken
from Shakspeare, with an episode, however, in the form of a temporary interruption by Gregory
and retainers, whose appearance is rather absurd than otherwise. The third act is constructed
in two scenes. The first is in the friar's cell, where the secret marriage of the lovers takes
place. In the second, we are introduced to a new character, invented by the librettist,--Stephano,
Romeo's page, whose pranks while in search of his master provoke a general quarrel, in which
Mercutio is slain by Tybalt, who in turn is killed by Romeo. When Capulet arrives upon the
scene he condemns Romeo to banishment, who vows, however, that he will see Juliet again at
all hazards. The fourth act is also made up of two scenes. The first is in Juliet's chamber,
and is devoted to a duet between the two lovers. Romeo departs at dawn, and Capulet appears
with Friar Laurence and announces his determination that the marriage with Paris shall be celebrated
at once. Juliet implores the Friar's help, and he gives her the potion. The next scene is devoted
to the wedding festivity, in the midst of which Juliet falls insensible from the effects of
the sleeping-draught. The last act transpires in the tomb of the Capulets, where Romeo arrives,
and believing his mistress dead takes poison. Juliet, reviving from the effects of the potion,
and finding him dying, stabs herself with a dagger, and expires in his arms.

While many numbers are greatly admired, the opera as a whole has never been successful. Had
not "Faust," which it often recalls, preceded it, its fate might have been different.  Still,
it contains many strong passages and much beautiful writing. The favorite numbers are the waltz
arietta, very much in the manner of the well-known "Il Bacio," at the Capulet festival, the
Queen Mab song, by Mercutio ("Mab, regina di menzogne"), and the duet between Romeo and Juliet
("Di grazia, t' arresta ancor!"), in the first act; the love music in the balcony scene of
the second act, which inevitably recalls the garden music in "Faust;" an impressive solo for
Friar Laurence ("Al vostro amor cocente"), followed by a vigorous trio and quartet, the music
of which is massive and ecclesiastical in character, and the page's song ("Ah! col nibbio micidale"),
in the third act; the duet of parting between Romeo and Juliet, "Tu dei partir ohime!" the
quartet, "Non temero mio ben," between Juliet, the nurse, Friar Laurence, and Capulet, and
the dramatic solo for the Friar, "Bevi allor questo filtro," as he gives the potion to Juliet,
in the fourth act; and the elaborate orchestral prelude to the tomb scene in the last act.

MIREILLE.

"Mireille," a pastoral opera in three acts, words by M. Carré, the subject taken from "Mireio,"
a Provençal poem by Mistral, was first produced at the Théâtre Lyrique, Paris, March 19, 1864,
with the following cast:--

  MIREILLE      Mme. MIOLAN-CARVALHO
  TAVENA      | Mme. FAURE-LEFEBVRE.
  ANDRELUNO   |
  VINCENZINA    Mlle. LEROUX.
  VINCENZO      M. ISMIEL.
  URIAS         M. PETIT.
  RAIMONDO      M. MORINI.

In December, 1864, the opera was reduced to three acts, in which form it is still given. In
this abridged shape, and with the addition of the waltz now placed in the finale, it was brought
out in London with Titiens, Giuglini, Santley, and Trebelli in the cast. In English it is always
given under the title of "Mirella." The first scene opens in a mulberry grove, where Mireille
is rallied by the village girls upon her attachment to Vincenzo, the basket-maker, and is also
warned by Tavena, the fortune-teller, against yielding to her love, as she foresees that her
father, Raimondo, will never consent to the union. In the next scene she meets Vincenzo, and
the warning of Tavena is soon forgotten. The lovers renew their pledges, and agree to meet
at the Chapel of the Virgin if their plans are thwarted. The second act introduces us to a
merrymaking at Arles, where Mireille is informed by Tavena that Vincenzo has a rival in Urias,
a wild herdsman, who has openly declared his love for her, and asked her hand of her father.
Mireille repulses him when he brings the father's consent. Ambrogio, Vincenzo's father, accompanied
by his daughter, Vincenzina, also waits upon Raimondo and intercedes in his son's behalf, but
is sternly refused. Mireille, who has overheard the interview, declares to her father her irrevocable
attachment for Vincenzo. Her declaration throws him into such a rage that he is about to strike
her, but she disarms his anger by appealing to the memory of her mother.

The last act opens on a barren, sunburnt plain. Andreluno appears, singing a pastoral song
to the accompaniment of his bagpipe, followed by Mireille, who is toiling across the hot sands
to meet her lover at the Chapel of the Virgin. She is met by Tavena, who assures her that Vincenzo
will keep his appointment, and then returns to Arles to plead with the father in Mireille's
behalf. The poor girl toils on through the heat, and at last arrives nearly prostrated by sunstroke.
Vincenzo soon appears, and is shortly followed by Raimondo, who, seeing the sad condition of
his daughter, is moved to pity and gives his consent to the union of the lovers. The sudden
joyful change of affairs restores her wandering senses and the happy pair are united.

The music is in no sense dramatic, but lyric and pastoral throughout, and is specially marked
by the beautiful French chansons with which it abounds. The first act opens with a delightful
pastoral chorus of the maidens under the mulberry-trees ("Facciam carole, o giovinette"), which
is very fresh and graceful. The second begins with an equally delightful chorus and farandole
("La Farandola tutti consola"), followed by the beautiful Provençal folk-song, "Dolce una brezza,
intorno olezza," which is full of local color. Tavena sings a quaint fortune-teller's roundelay
("La stagione arriva"), and in the next scene Mireille has a number of rare beauty ("Ah! piu
non temo fato "), in which she declares her unalterable attachment to Vincenzo. The finale
of this act, with its strong aria ("Qui mi prostro innanzi ate"), is very spirited, and in
fact may be considered the only dramatic episode in the whole work. The third act opens with
the quaint little song of Andreluno, the shepherd boy ("L'alba tranquilla"), with oboe accompaniment.
It also contains a plaintive song for tenor ("Ah! se de preghi miei"), and closes with a waltz
song ("O d'amor messagera"), which is fairly gorgeous in bravura effects, and Hanslick says
was a concession to Miolan-Carvalho, like the jewel song in "Faust" and the waltz song in "Romeo
and Juliet." In the original libretto the song had its place in the first act, and indeed numerous
changes have been made in the libretto since the opera first appeared; as in the original,
Mireille dies in the arms of her lover, and Urias, Vincenzo's rival, is drowned in the Rhone.
When it first appeared, however, great objection was made to several of the situations, and
the libretto was declared fantastic and uninteresting; hence the changes. As a lyric drama,
delightfully picturing the quaintness and simplicity of provincial life, not alone in the tunefulness
of the music, but also in its pastoral naïveté and what may be termed its folk-characteristics,
it will hold a high place upon the stage as long as young and fresh voices can be found to sing it.

HALEVY.

Jacques François Fromenthal Elias Halevy was born at Paris, May 27, 1799, of Israelitish parents,
whose name was originally Levy. He entered the Conservatory in 1809, and in 1819 obtained the
Grand Prize for his cantata of "Hermione." After his arrival in Italy he wrote several minor
pieces, but his music did not attract public attention until his return to Paris, when his
three-act opera, "Clari," brought out Dec. 9, 1828, with Malibran in the principal rôle, made
a success. "Le Dilettante d'Avignon" (a satire on Italian librettos), "Manon Lescaut" (a ballet
in three acts), "La Langue Musicàle," "La Tentation," and "Les Souvenirs" rapidly followed
"Clari," with alternating successes and failures. In 1835 his great work, "La Juive," appeared,
and in the same year, "L'Éclair," one of his most charming operas, written without chorus for
two tenors and two sopranos. It was considered at the time a marvellous feat that he should
have produced two such opposite works in the same year, and great hopes were entertained that
he would surpass them. These hopes failed, however. He subsequently wrote over twenty operas,
among them "Guido et Ginevra" (1838); "Charles VI." (1842); "La Reine de Chypre" (1842); "Les
Mousquetaires de la Reine" (1846); "Le Val d'Andorre" (1848); "La Tempête" (1853): "Le Juif
Errant" (1855), and others; but "La Juive" and "L'Éclair" remained his masterpieces, and procured
him admission into the Institute. He was also a professor in the Conservatory, and among his
pupils were Gounod, Massé, Bazin, Duvernoy, Bizet, and others. He enjoyed many honors, and
died March 17, 1862. A De Profundis was sung on the occasion of his funeral, written by four
of his pupils, MM. Gounod, Massé, Bazin, and Cohen. As a composer he was influenced largely
by Meyerbeer, and is remarkable rather for his large dramatic effects than for his melody.

THE JEWESS

"La Juive," a grand opera in five acts, words by Scribe, originally written for Rossini and
rejected in favor of "William Tell," was produced for the first time at the Académie, Paris,
Feb. 23, 1835, with the following cast of the principal parts:--

  RACHEL      Mlle. CORNELIA FALCON.
  EUDOXIA     Mme. DORUS-GRAS.
  ELEAZAR     M. NOURRIT.
  CARDINAL    M. LEVASSEUR.

It was first produced in England in French, July 29, 1846, and in Italian under the title of
"La Ebrea," July 25, 1850. In this country it is most familiar in the German version. The scene
of the opera is laid in Constance, time, 1414. Leopold, a prince of the empire, returning from
the wars, is enamoured of Rachel, a beautiful Jewess, daughter of Eleazar the goldsmith. The
better to carry out his plans, he calls himself Samuel, and pretends to be a Jewish painter.
Circumstances, however, dispel the illusion, and Rachel learns that he is no other than Leopold,
husband of the princess Eudoxia. Overcome with indignation at the discovery of his perfidy,
she publicly denounces his crime, and the Cardinal excommunicates Leopold, and pronounces his
malediction on Rachel and her father. Rachel, Eleazar, and Leopold are thrown into prison to
await the execution of the sentence of death. During their imprisonment Eudoxia intercedes
with Rachel to save Leopold's life, and at last, moved by the grief of the rightful wife, she
publicly recants her statement. Leopold is banished, but Rachel and her father are again condemned
to death for conspiring against the life of a Christian. Eleazar determines to be revenged
in the moment of death upon the Cardinal, who has sentenced them, and who is at the head of
a church which he hates; and just before they are thrown into a caldron of fire, reveals to
the spectators that Rachel is not his own, but an adopted daughter, saved from the ruins of
the Cardinal's burning palace, and that she is his child.

The opera of "The Jewess" is pre-eminently spectacular, and its music is dramatic and declamatory
rather than melodious. The prominent numbers of the first act are the solemn declaration of
the Cardinal ("Wenn ew'ger Hass"), in which he replies to Eleazar's hatred of the Christian;
the romance sung by Leopold ("Fern vom Liebchen weilen"), which is in the nature of a serenade
to Rachel; the drinking-song of the people at the fountain, which is flowing wine ("Eilt herbei");
and the splendid chorus and march ("Leht, es nahet sich der Zug") which preludes the imposing
pageantry music of the Emperor's arrival, closing with the triumphant Te Deum to organ accompaniment
and the greeting to the Emperor, "Hosanna, unser Kaiser hoch."

The second act opens with the celebration of the Passover in Eleazar's house, and introduces
a very solemn and impressive prayer ("Allmächt'ger blicke gnädig"). In the next scene there
is a passionate ensemble and duet for Eudoxia and Leopold ("Ich will ihn seh'n"), which is
followed by a second spirited duet between Rachel and Leopold ("Als mein Herz"); an intensely
dramatic aria ("Ach! Vater! Halt ein!"), in which she claims her share of Leopold's guilt;
and the final grand trio of anathema pronounced by Eleazar.

The third act is principally devoted to the festivities of the royal pageants, and closes with
the anathema of the Cardinal ("Ihr, die ihr Gottes Zorn"), which is a concerted number of magnificent
power and spirited dramatic effect. The fourth act contains a grand duet between Eleazar and
the Cardinal ("Hört ich recht?"), and closes with one of the most powerful scenas ever written
for tenor ("Das Todesurtheil sprich"), in which Eleazar welcomes death and hurls defiance at
the Christians. The last act is occupied with the tragic dénouement, which affords splendid
opportunities for action, and is accompanied by very dramatic music to the close, often rising
to real sublimity. In the pageantry of the stage, in the expression of high and passionate
sentiment, in elaborateness of treatment, and in broad and powerful dramatic effect, "The Jewess"
is one of the strongest operas in the modern repertory.

HUMPERDINCK.

Engelbert Humperdinck, the latest star in the German musical firmament, was born, Sept. 1,
1854, at Siegburg on the Rhine, and received his earliest musical training at the Cologne Conservatory.
He made such rapid progress in his studies, showing special proficiency in composition, that
he carried off in succession the three prizes of the Mozart, Mendelssohn, and Meyerbeer stipends.
These enabled him to continue his lessons at Munich, and afterwards in Italy. While in Naples,
in 1880, he attracted the attention of Richard Wagner as a rising genius, and two years later
had the honor of an invitation to go to Venice as his guest, upon the occasion of the performance
of Wagner's only symphony. In 1885 he went to Barcelona, Spain, where he taught composition,
and was the director of a quartette at the Royal Conservatory for two years. In 1887 he returned
to Cologne, and since 1890 has been identified with a Conservatory at Frankfort-on-the-Main.
In addition to the opera "Hansel and Gretel," which has given him a world-wide fame, he produced,
a few years ago, a chorus ballad, "Das Glück von Edenhall," and a cantata, "Die Wallfahrt nach
Kevelaar," based upon Heine's poem, and scored for soloists, chorus, and orchestra. He has
also written several songs and piano pieces, and, it is now reported, is engaged upon a dramatic
composition called "The Royal Children." He is regarded in Germany as the one composer who
gives promise of continuing and developing the scheme of the music-drama as it was propounded
by Wagner.

HANSEL AND GRETEL.

"Hansel and Gretel," a fairy opera in three acts, words by Adelheid Wette, was first produced
in Germany in 1894. In January, 1895, it was performed in London by the Royal Carl Rosa Opera
Company, rendered into English by Constance Bache; and in the fall of the same year it had
its first representation in New York, at Daly's Theatre, with the following cast:--

  PETER, a broom-maker       Mr. JACQUES BARS.
  GERTRUDE, his wife         Miss ALICE GORDON.
  THE WITCH                  Miss LOUISE MEISSLINGER.
  HANSEL                     Miss MARIE ELBA.
  GRETEL                     Miss JEANNE DOUSTE.
  SANDMAN, the Sleep Fairy   Miss CECILE BRANI.
  DEWMAN, the Dawn Fairy     Miss EDITH JOHNSTON.

The story is taken from one of Grimm's well-known fairy tales, and the text was written by
the composer's sister, Adelheid Wette. It was Frau Wette's intention to arrange the story in
dramatic form for the amusement of her children, her brother lending his co-operation by writing
a few little melodies, of a simple nature, to accompany the performance. When he had read it,
however, the story took his fancy, and its dramatic possibilities so appealed to him that he
determined to give it an operatic setting with full orchestral score, and thus placed it in
the higher sphere of world performance by an art which not alone reveals the highest type of
genial German sentimentality, but, curiously enough, applied to this simple little story of
angels, witches, and the two babes in the woods the same musical methods which Wagner has employed
in telling the stories of gods and demigods. Perhaps its highest praise was sounded by Siegfried
Wagner, son of Richard Wagner, who declared that "Hansel and Gretel" was the most important
German opera since "Parsifal," notwithstanding its childishness and simplicity.

After a beautifully instrumented prelude, which has already become a favorite concert piece,
the curtain rises upon the home of Peter, the broom-maker. The parents are away seeking for
food, and Hansel and Gretel have been left in the cottage with instructions to knit and make
brooms. There is a charming dialogue between the two children, beginning with a doleful lament
over their poverty, and ending with an outburst of childish hilarity in song and dancing,--a
veritable romp in music,--which is suddenly interrupted by the return of Gertrude, the mother,
empty-handed, who chides them for their behavior, and in her anger upsets a jug of milk which
was the only hope of supper in the house. With an energetic outburst of recitative she sends
them into the forest, telling them not to return until they have filled their basket with strawberries.
After lamenting her loss, and mourning over her many troubles, she falls asleep, but is awakened
by the return of Peter, who has been more fortunate, and has brought home some provisions.
A rollicking scene ensues, but suddenly he misses the children, and breaks out in a fit of
rage when he is informed that they have gone into the forest. To the accompaniment of most
gruesome and characteristic music he tells his wife of the witch who haunts the woods, and
who, living in a honey-cake house, entices little children to it, bakes them into gingerbread
in her oven, and then devours them.

The second act, "In the Forest," is preluded by a characteristic instrumental number, "The
Witches' Ride." The children are discovered near the Ilsenstein, among the fir-trees, making
garlands, listening to the cuckoos, and mocking them in a beautiful duet with echo accompaniment.
At last, however, they realize that they are lost; and in the midst of their fear, which is
intensified by strange sights and sounds, the Sandman, or sleep fairy, approaches them, strews
sand in their eyes, and sings them to sleep with a most delicious lullaby, after they have
recited their prayer, "When at night I go to sleep, fourteen Angels watch do keep." As they
sleep the mist rolls away, the forest background disappears, and the fourteen angels come down
a sort of Jacob's ladder and surround the children, while other angels perform a stately dance,
grouping themselves in picturesque tableau as the curtain falls.

The third act is entitled "The Witch's House." The children are still sleeping, but the angels
have vanished. The Dawn-Fairy steps forward and shakes dewdrops from a bluebell over them,
accompanying the action with a delightful song, "I'm up with early Dawning." Gretel is the
first to wake, and rouses Hansel by tickling him with a leaf, at the same time singing a veritable
tickling melody, and then telling him what she has seen in her dream. In place of the fir-trees
they discover the witch's house at the Ilsenstein, with an oven on one side and on the other
a cage, both joined to the house by a curious fence of gingerbread figures. The house itself
is constructed of sweets and creams. Attracted by its delicious fragrance and toothsomeness,
the hungry children break off a piece and are nibbling at it, when the old witch within surprises
and captures them. After a series of incantations, and much riding upon her broomstick, which
are vividly portrayed in the music, she prepares to cook Gretel in the oven; but while looking
into it the children deftly tumble her into the fire. The witch waltz, danced by the children
and full of joyous abandon, follows. To a most vivid accompaniment, Hansel rushes into the
house and throws fruit, nuts, and sweetmeats into Gretel's apron. Meanwhile the oven falls
into bits, and a crowd of children swarms around them, released from their gingerbread disguises,
and sing a swelling chorus of gratitude as two of the boys drag the witch from the ruins of
the oven in the form of a big gingerbread-cake. The father and mother appear. Their long quest
is ended. The family join in singing a pious little hymn, "When past bearing is our grief,
God the Lord will send relief;" and the children dance joyously around the reunited group.
The story is only a little child's tale, but it is wedded to music of the highest order. The
union has been made so deftly, the motives are so charming and take their places so skilfully,
and the music is so scholarly and characteristic throughout, that no one has yet considered
this union as incongruous. In this respect "Hansel and Gretel" is a distinct creation in the
operatic world.

LEONCAVALLO.

Ruggiero Leoncavallo, a promising representative of the young Italian school, was born in Naples,
March 8, 1858. He first studied with Siri, and afterwards learned harmony and the piano from
Simonetti. While a student at the Naples Conservatory he was advised by Rossi, one of his teachers,
to devote himself to opera. In pursuance of this counsel, he went to Bologna, and there wrote
his first opera, "Tommaso Chatterton," which still remains in manuscript and unperformed. Then
followed a series of "wander years," during which he visited many European countries, giving
lessons in singing and upon the piano, and meeting with varying fortunes. In all these years,
however, he cherished the plan of producing a trilogy in the Wagnerian manner with a groundwork
from Florentine history. In a letter he says: "I subdivided the historical periods in the following
way: first part, 'I Medici,' from the accession of Sextus IV. to the Pazzi conspiracy; second
part, 'Savonorola,' from the investiture of Fra Benedetto to the death of Savonorola; third
part, 'Cesare Borgia,' from the death of the Duke of Candia to that of Alexander VI." The first
part was completed and performed in Milan in November, 1893, and was a failure, notwithstanding
its effective instrumentation. It was not so, however, with the little two-act opera "I Pagliacci,"
which was produced May 21, 1892, at Milan, and met with an instantaneous and enthusiastic success.
His next work was a chorus with orchestral accompaniment, the text based upon Balzac's rhapsodical
and highly wrought "Seraphita," which was performed at Milan in 1894. It has been recently
reported that the Emperor of Germany has given him a commission to produce an opera upon a
national subject, "Roland of Berlin." Of his works, "I Pagliacci" is the only one known in
the United States. It has met with great favor here, and has become standard in the Italian
repertory.

I PAGLIACCI.

"I Pagliacci," an Italian opera in two acts, words by the composer, Ruggiero Leoncavallo, was
first performed at Milan, May 21, 1892, and was introduced in this country in the spring of
1894, Mme. Arnoldson, Mme. Calvé, and Signors Ancona, Gromzeski, Guetary, and De Lucia taking
the principal parts. The scene is laid in Calabria during the Feast of the Assumption. The
Pagliacci are a troupe of itinerant mountebanks, the characters being Nedda, the Columbine,
who is wife of Canio, or Punchinello, master of the troupe; Tonio, the Clown; Beppe, the Harlequin;
and Silvio, a villager.

The first act opens with the picturesque arrival of the troupe in the village, and the preparations
for a performance in the rustic theatre, with which the peasants are overjoyed. The tragic
element of the composition is apparent at once, and the action moves swiftly on to the fearful
dénouement. Tonio, the clown, is in love with Nedda, and before the performance makes advances
to her, which she resents by slashing him across the face with Beppe's riding-whip. He rushes
off vowing revenge, and upon his return overhears Nedda declaring her passion for Silvio, a
young peasant, and arranging to elope with him. Tonio thereupon seeks Canio, and tells him
of his wife's infidelity. Canio hurries to the spot, encounters Nedda; but Silvio has fled,
and she refuses to give his name. He attempts to stab her, but is prevented by Beppe, and the
act closes with the final preparation for the show, the grief-stricken husband donning the
motley in gloomy and foreboding silence.

The second act opens with Tonio beating the big drum, and the people crowding to the show,
among them Silvio, who manages to make an appointment with Nedda while she is collecting the
money. The curtain of the little theatre rises, disclosing a small room barely furnished. The
play to be performed is almost an identical picture of the real situation in the unfortunate
little troupe. Columbine, who is to poison her husband, Punchinello, is entertaining her lover,
Harlequin, while Taddeo, the clown, watches for Punchinello's return. When Canio finally appears
the mimic tragedy becomes one in reality. Inflamed with passion, he rushes upon Nedda, and
demands the name of her lover. She still refuses to tell. He draws his dagger. Nedda, conscious
of her danger, calls upon Silvio in the audience to save her; but it is too late. Her husband
kills her, and Silvio, who rushes upon the stage, is killed with the same dagger. With a wild
cry full of hate, jealousy, and despair, the unfortunate Canio tells the audience "La commedia
è finita" ("The comedy is finished"). The curtain falls upon the tragedy, and the excited audience
disperses.

The story is peculiarly Italian in its motive, though the composer has been charged with taking
it from "La Femme de Tabarin," by the French novelist, Catulle Mendès. Be this as it may, Leoncavallo's
version has the merit of brevity, conciseness, ingenuity, and swift action, closing in a dénouement
of great tragic power and capable, in the hands of a good actor, of being made very effective.
The composer has not alone been charged with borrowing the story, but also with plagiarizing
the music. So far as the accusation of plagiarism is concerned, however, it hardly involves
anything more serious than those curious resemblances which are so often found in musical compositions.
As a whole, the opera is melodious, forceful, full of snap and go, and intensely dramatic,
and is without a dull moment from the prologue ("Si può? Signore") sung before the curtain
by Tonio to that last despairing outcry of Canio ("La commedia è finita"), upon which the curtain
falls. The prominent numbers are the prologue already referred to; Nedda's beautiful cavatina
in the second scene ("O, che volo d'angello"); her duet with Silvio in the third scene ("E
allor perchè"); the passionate declamation of Canio at the close of the first act ("Recitur!
mentre preso dal delirio"); the serenade of Beppe in the second act ("O Colombino, il tenero");
and the graceful dance-music which plays so singular a part in this fierce struggle of the
passions, which forms the motive of the closing scenes.

MASCAGNI.

Pietro Mascagni, who leaped into fame at a single bound, was born at Leghorn, Dec. 7, 1863.
His father was a baker, and had planned for his son a career in the legal profession; but,
as often happens, fate ordered otherwise. His tastes were distinctly musical, and his determination
to study music was encouraged by Signor Bianchi, a singing teacher, who recognized his talent.
For a time he took lessons, unknown to his father, of Soffredini, but when it was discovered
he was ordered to abandon music and devote himself to the law. At this juncture his uncle Stefano
came to his rescue, took him to his house, provided him with a piano, and also with the means
to pursue his studies. Recognizing the uselessness of further objections, the father at last
withdrew them, and left his son free to follow his own pleasure. He progressed so rapidly under
Soffredini that he was soon engaged in composition, his first works being a symphony in C minor
and a "Kyrie," which were performed in 1879. In 1881 he composed a cantata, "In Filanda," and
a setting of Schiller's hymn, "An die Freude," both of which had successful public performances.
The former attracted the attention of a rich nobleman who furnished young Mascagni with the
means to attend the Milan Conservatory. After studying there a short time, he suddenly left
Milan with an operatic troupe, and visited various Italian cities, a pilgrimage which was of
great value to him, as it made him acquainted with the resources of an orchestra and the details
of conducting. The troupe, however, met with hard fortunes, and was soon disbanded, throwing
Mascagni upon the world. For a few years he made a precarious living in obscure towns, by teaching,
and had at last reached desperate extremities when one day he read in a newspaper that Sonzogno,
the music publisher, had offered prizes for the three best one act operas, to be performed
in Rome. He at once entered into the competition, and produced "Cavalleria Rusticana." It took
the first prize. It did more than this for the impecunious composer. When performed, it made
a success of enthusiasm. He was called twenty times before the curtain. Honors and decorations
were showered upon him. He was everywhere greeted with serenades and ovations. Every opera-house
in Europe clamored for the new work. In a day he had risen from utter obscurity and become
world-famous. His sudden popularity, however, had a pernicious effect, as it induced him to
rush out more operas without giving sufficient time to their preparation. "L'Amico Fritz,"
based upon the well-known Erckmann-Chatrian story, and "I Rantzau" quickly followed "Cavalleria
Rusticana," but did not meet with its success. Last year however he produced two operas at
Milan, "Guglielmo Ratcliff" and "Silvano," which proved successful. Whether "Cavalleria Rusticana"
is to remain as his only hold upon popular favor, the future alone can tell; but that he has
talent of the highest order, and that he has produced an opera whose reception has been almost
unparalleled in the world of music cannot be questioned.

CAVALLERIA RUSTICANA.

"Cavalleria Rusticana," an opera in one act, words by Signori Targioni-Tozzetti and Menasci,
music by Pietro Mascagni, was written in 1890, and was first performed at the Costanzi Theatre
in Rome, May 20, of that year, with Gemma Bellinconi and Roberto Stagno in the two principal
rôles. It had its first American production in Philadelphia, Sept. 9, 1891, with Mme. Kronold
as Santuzza, Miss Campbell as Lola, Guille as Turridu, Del Puente as Alfio, and Jeannie Teal
as Lucia.

The story upon which the text of "Cavalleria Rusticana" is based is taken from a Sicilian tale
by Giovanni Verga. It is peculiarly Italian in its motive, running a swift, sure gamut of love,
flirtation, jealousy, and death,--a melodrama of a passionate and tragic sort, amid somewhat
squalid environments, that particularly lends itself to music of Mascagni's forceful sort.
The overture graphically presents the main themes of the opera, and these themes illustrate
a very simple but strong story. Turridu, a young Sicilian peasant, arrived home from army service,
finds that his old love, Lola, during his absence has married Alfio, a carter. To console himself
he makes love to Santuzza, who returns his passion with ardor. The inconstant Turridu, however,
soon tires of her and makes fresh advances to Lola, who, inspired by her jealousy of Santuzza,
and her natural coquetry, smiles upon him again. The latter seeks to reclaim him, and, when
she is rudely repulsed, tells the story of Lola's perfidy to Alfio, who challenges Turridu
and kills him.

During the overture Turridu sings a charming Siciliana ("O Lola c'hai di latti"), and the curtain
rises, disclosing a Sicilian village with a church decorated for Easter service. As the sacristan
opens its doors, the villagers appear and sing a hymn to the Madonna. A hurried duet follows,
in which Santuzza reveals to mother Lucia her grief at the perfidy of Turridu. Her discourse
is interrupted by the entrance of Alfio, singing a rollicking whip-song ("Il cavallo scalpita")
with accompaniment of male chorus. The scene then develops into a trio, closing with a hymn
("Inneggiamo, il Signor"), sung by the people in the square, and led by Santuzza herself, and
blending with the "Regina Coeli," performed by the choir inside the church with organ accompaniment,
the number finally working up into a tremendous climax in genuine Italian style.

In the next scene Santuzza tells her sad story to Lucia, Turridu's mother, in a romanza of
great power ("Voi lo sapete"), closing with an outburst of the highest significance as she
appeals to Lucia to pray for her. In the next scene Turridu enters. Santuzza upbraids him,
and a passionate duet follows in which Santuzza's suspicions are more than confirmed by his
avowal of his passion for Lola. The duet is interrupted by a song of the latter, heard in the
distance with harp accompaniment ("Fior di giaggiolo"). As she approaches the pair the song
grows livelier, and at its close she banters poor Santuzza with biting sarcasms, and assails
Turridu with all the arts of coquetry. She passes into the church, confident that the infatuated
Turridu will follow her. An impassioned duo of great power follows, in which Santuzza pleads
with him to love her, but all in vain. He rushes into the church. She attempts to follow him,
but falls upon the steps just as Alfio comes up. To him she relates the story of her troubles,
and of Turridu's baseness. Alfio promises to revenge her, and another powerful duet follows.

As they leave the stage, there is a sudden and most unexpected change in the character of the
music and the motive of the drama. In the place of struggle, contesting passions, and manifestations
of rage, hate, and jealousy ensues an intermezzo for orchestra, with an accompaniment of harps
and organ, of the utmost simplicity and sweetness, breathing something like a sacred calm,
and turning the thoughts away from all this human turmoil into conditions of peace and rest.
It has not only become one of the most favorite numbers in the concert repertory, but is ground
out from every barrel-organ the world over, and yet it has retained its hold upon popular admiration.

At its close the turmoil begins again and the action hastens to the tragic dénouement. The
people come out of the church singing a glad chorus which is followed by a drinking song ("Viva
il vino"), sung by Turridu, and joined in by Lola and chorus. In the midst of the hilarity
Alfio appears. Turridu invites him to join them and drink; but he refuses, and the quarrel
begins. Lola and the frightened women withdraw. Turridu bites Alfio's right ear,--a Sicilian
form of challenge. The scene closes with the death of the former at Alfio's hands, and Santuzza
is avenged; but the fickle Lola has gone her way bent upon other conquests.

MEYERBEER.

Giacomo Meyerbeer, the eldest son of Herz Beer, was born in Berlin, Sept. 5, 1794. He was named
Jacob Meyer Beer, but afterwards called himself Giacomo Meyerbeer. His early studies were pursued
with the pianist Lanska, and Bernard Anselm Weber, chief of the Berlin orchestra. At fifteen
he became the pupil of Vogler in Darmstadt, with whom he displayed such talent in composition
that he was named Composer to the Court by the Grand Duke. At eighteen his first dramatic work,
"The Daughter of Jephtha," was performed at Munich. He then began the world for himself, and
made his début in Vienna as a pianist with great success. His first opera, "The Two Caliphs,"
met with complete failure, as it was not written in the Italian form. He at once transformed
his style and brought out "Romilda e Costanza," a serio-comic opera, with great success, at
Padua. In 1820, "Emma di Resburgo" appeared at Venice, and from this period his star was in
the ascendant. "The Gate of Brandeburg," "Margharita d' Anjou," "Esule di Granata," and "Almanzar"
followed in quick succession, and were well received, though with nothing like the furor which
"Il Crociato in Egitto" created in Venice in 1824. His next great work, "Robert le Diable,"
was produced in Paris, Nov. 21, 1831, the unparalleled success of which carried its fame to
every part of the civilized world. In 1836 "The Huguenots," unquestionably his masterpiece,
was brought out, and it still holds its place as one of the grandest dramatic works the world
has ever seen. In 1838 Scribe furnished him the libretto of "L'Africaine," but before the music
was finished he had changed the text so much that Scribe withdrew it altogether. He was consoled,
however, by Meyerbeer's taking from him the libretto of "Le Prophete," this opera being finished
in 1843. During the following year he wrote several miscellaneous pieces besides the three-act
German opera, "Ein Feldlager in Schlesien," in which Jenny Lind made her Berlin début. In 1846
he composed the overture and incidental music to his brother's drama of "Struensee," and in
1847 he not only prepared the way for Wagner's "Flying Dutchman" in Paris, but personally produced
"Rienzi,"--services which Wagner poorly requited. In 1849 "Le Prophete" was given in Paris;
in 1854, "L'Etoile du Nord;" and in 1859, "Dinorah;" but none of them reached the fame of "The
Huguenots." In 1860 he wrote two cantatas and commenced a musical drama called "Goethe's Jugendzeit,"
which was never finished. In 1862 and 1863 he worked upon "L'Africaine," and at last brought
it forward as far as a rehearsal; but he died April 23, 1863, and it was not performed until
two years after his death.

THE HUGUENOTS.

"Les Huguenots," a grand opera in five acts, words by Scribe and Deschamps, was first produced
at the Académie, Paris, Feb. 29, 1836, with the following cast of the principal parts:--

  VALENTIN                 Mlle. FALCON.
  MARGUERITE DE VALOIS     Mme. DORUS-GRAS.
  URBAIN                   Mlle. FLECHEUX.
  COUNT DE ST. BRIS        M. LERDA.
  COUNT DE NEVERS          M. DERIVIS.
  RAOUL DE NANGIS          M. NOURRIT.
  MARCEL                   M. LEVASSEUR.

At its first production in London in Italian, as "Gli Ugonotti," July 20, 1848, the cast was
even more remarkable than that above. Meyerbeer specially adapted the opera for the performance,
transposed the part of the page, which was written for a soprano, and expressly composed a
cavatina to be sung by Mme. Alboni, in the scene of the château and gardens of Chenonceaux,
forming the second act of the original work, but now given as the second scene of the first
act in the Italian version. The cast was as follows:--

  VALENTIN               Mme. PAULINE VIARDOT.
  MARGUERITE DE VALOIS   Mme. CASTELLAN.
  URBAIN                 Mlle. ALBONI.
  COUNT DE ST. BRIS      Sig. TAMBURINI.
  COUNT DE NEVERS        Sig. TAGLIAFICO.
  RAOUL DE NANGIS        Sig. MARIO.
  MARCEL                 Sig. MARINI.

The action of the opera passes in 1572, the first and second acts in Touraine, and the remainder
in Paris. The first act opens on a scene of revelry in the salon of Count de Nevers, where
a number of noblemen, among them Raoul de Nangis, a Protestant, accompanied by his faithful
old Huguenot servant, Marcel, are present, telling stories of their exploits in love. Marguerite
de Valois, the betrothed of Henry IV., for the sake of reconciling the dispute between the
two religious sects, sends her page to De Nevers's salon and invites Raoul to her château.
When he arrives, Marguerite informs him of her purpose to give him in marriage to a Catholic
lady, daughter of the Count de St. Bris. Raoul at first consents; but when Valentin is introduced
to him and he discovers her to be a lady whom he had once rescued from insult and who had visited
De Nevers in his salon, he rejects the proposition, believing that her affections have been
bestowed upon another, and that his enemies are seeking to entrap him. St. Bris challenges
Raoul for the affront, but the Queen disarms the angry combatants. Valentin is now urged to
marry Count de Nevers, and begs that she may pass the day in prayer in the chapel. Meanwhile
Count de St. Bris, who has been challenged by Raoul, forms a plot for his assassination, which
is overheard by Valentin from within the chapel. She communicates the plot to Marcel, who lies
in wait with a party of Huguenots in the vicinity of the duel, and comes to Raoul's rescue
when danger threatens him. A general combat is about to ensue, but it is suppressed by Marguerite,
who suddenly appears upon the scene. Raoul thus discovers that he owes his life to Valentin,
and that her visit to De Nevers was to induce him to sever the relations between them, as she
was in love with Raoul. The announcement comes too late, for the marriage festivities have
already begun. Raoul visits her for the last time. Their interview is disturbed by the approach
of De Nevers, St. Bris, and other Catholic noblemen, who meet to arrange the details of the
plot conceived by Catherine de Médicis for the slaughter of the Huguenots on St. Bartholomew's
Eve. Valentin hurriedly conceals Raoul behind the tapestries, where he overhears their plans
and witnesses the conjuration and the blessing of the swords, as well as the refusal of the
chivalrous De Nevers to engage in murder. After the conspirators have departed, Raoul and Valentin
have a long and affecting interview, in which he hesitates between love and honor, Valentin
striving to detain him lest he may be included in the general massacre. Honor at last prevails,
and he joins his friends just before the work of slaughter begins. He rushes to the festivities
which are about to be given in honor of the marriage of Marguerite with the King of Navarre,
and warns the Huguenots of their danger. He then makes his way to a chapel where many of them
are gathered for refuge. He finds Marcel, who has been wounded, and who brings him the tidings
of the death of De Nevers. The faithful Valentin joins them to share their fate. Amid the horrors
of the massacre Marcel blesses and unites them. They enter the church and all perish together.

The first act opens with the brilliant chorus of the revellers ("Piacer della mensa"), which
is full of courtly grace. Raoul tells the story of the unknown fair one he has encountered,
in the romanza, "Piu bianca del velo." When Marcel is called upon, he hurriedly chants the
hymn, "O tu che ognor," set to the Martin Luther air, "Ein feste Burg," and heightened by a
stirring accompaniment, and then bursts out into a graphic song ("Finita è pe' frati"), emphasized
with the piff-paff of bullets and full of martial fervor. In delightful contrast with the fierce
Huguenot song comes the lively and graceful romanza of Urbain ("Nobil donna e tanto onesta"),
followed by a delightful septet. The scene now changes, and with it the music. We are in the
Queen's gardens at Chenonceaux. Every number, the Queen's solo ("A questa voce sola"), the
delicate "Bathers' Chorus," as it is called ("Audiam, regina, in questo amene sponde"), the
brilliant and graceful allegretto sung by Urbain ("No, no, no, no"), the duet between the Queen
and Raoul, based upon one of the most flowing of melodies, and the spirited and effective finale
in which the nobles take the oath of allegiance ("Per la fè, per l'onore"),--each and every
one of these is colored with consummate skill, while all are invested with chivalrous refinement
and stately grace.

The second act opens with a beautiful choral embroidery in which different choruses, most striking
in contrast, are interwoven with masterly skill. It is a picture, in music, of the old Paris.
The citizens rejoice over their day's work done. The Huguenots shout their lusty Rataplan,
while the Papist maidens sing their solemn litany ("Ave Maria") on their way to chapel; and
as they disappear, the quaint tones of the curfew chant are heard, and night and rest settle
down upon the city. It is a striking introduction to what follows,--the exquisite duet between
Marcel and Valentin, the great septet of the duel scene, beginning, "De dritti miei ho l'alma
accesa," with the tremendous double chorus which follows as the two bands rush upon the scene.
As if for relief from the storm of this scene, the act closes with brilliant pageant music
as De Nevers approaches to escort Valentin to her bridal.

The third act is the climax of the work, and stands almost unrivalled in the field of dramatic
music, for the manner in which horror and passion are illustrated. After a dark and despairing
aria by Valentin ("Eccomi sola ormai"), and a brief duet with Raoul, the conspirators enter.
The great trio, closing with the conjuration, "Quel Dio," the awful and stately chant of the
monks in the blessing of the unsheathed daggers ("Sia gloria eterna e onore"), and the thrilling
unisons of the chorus ("D'un sacro zel l'ardore"), which fairly glow with energy, fierceness,
and religious fury,--these numbers of themselves might have made an act; but Meyerbeer does
not pause here. He closes with a duet between Raoul and Valentin which does not suffer in comparison
with the tremendous combinations which have preceded it. It is filled with the alternations
of despair and love, of grief and ecstasy. In its movement it is the very whirlwind of passion.
Higher form dramatic music can hardly reach. In the Italian version the performance usually
closes at this point; but there is still another striking and powerful scene, that in which
Raoul and Valentin are united by the dying Marcel. Then the three join in a sublime trio, and
for the last time chant together the old Lutheran psalm, and await their fate amid the triumphant
harpings that sound from the orchestra and the hosanna they sing to its accompaniment.

THE STAR OF THE NORTH.

"L'Étoile du Nord," an opera in three acts, words by Scribe, was first performed at the Opera
Comique, Paris, Feb. 16, 1854, and in Italian as "La Stella del Nord" at Covent Garden, London,
July 19, 1855. In English it has been produced under the title of "The Star of the North."
The opera contains several numbers from the composer's earlier work, "Feldlager in Schlesien,"
which was written for the opening of the Berlin opera-house, in memory of Frederick the Great,
and was subsequently (Feb. 17, 1847) performed with great success in Vienna, Jenny Lind taking
the rôle of Vielka. The "Feldlager," however, has never been given out of Germany.

The action of the opera transpires in Wyborg, on the Gulf of Finland, in the first act, at
a camp of the Russians in the second, and at the palace of the Czar Peter in the third. In
the first, Peter, who is working at Wyborg, disguised as a carpenter, makes the acquaintance
of Danilowitz, a pastry-cook, and Catharine, a cantiniere, whose brother George is about to
marry Prascovia. Catharine brings about this marriage; and not only that, but saves the little
village from an invasion by a strolling horde of Tartars, upon whose superstition she practises
successfully, and so conducts herself in general that Peter falls in love with her, and they
are betrothed, though she is not aware of the real person who is her suitor. Meanwhile the
conscription takes place, and to save her newly wedded brother she volunteers for fifteen days
in his place, disguising herself as a soldier. In the next act we find Catharine going her
rounds as a sentinel in the Russian camp on the Finnish frontier. Peter and Danilowitz are
also there, and are having a roistering time in their tent, drinking and making love to a couple
of girls. Hearing Peter's voice she recognizes it, and curiosity leads her to peep into the
tent. She is shocked at what she beholds, neglects her duty, and is found by the corporal in
this insubordinate condition. He remonstrates with her, and she answers with a slap on his
ears, for which she incurs the penalties of disobedience to orders as well as insulting behavior
to her superior officer. Peter at last is roused from his drunkenness by the news of an insurrection
among his own soldiers and the approach of the enemy. He rushes out and promises to give Peter
into their hands if they will obey and follow him. At last, struck with his bearing and authority,
they demand to know who he is, whereupon he declares himself the Czar. The mutiny is at once
quelled. They submit, and offer their lives as warrant for their loyalty. The last act opens
in the Czar's palace, where his old companion, Danilowitz, has been installed in high favor.
Catharine, however, has disappeared. George and Prascovia arrive from Finland, but they know
nothing of her. The faithful Danilowitz finds her, but she has lost her reason. Her friends
try to restore it by surrounding her with recollections of home, and Peter at last succeeds
by playing upon his flute the airs he used to play to her in Finland. Her senses come back,
and thus all ends happily; for Catharine and Peter are at last united amid the acclamations
of the people.

In the first act the character of Peter is well expressed in the surly, growling bass of his
soliloquy ("Vedra, vedra"). It is followed by a characteristic drinking-chorus ("Alla Finlanda,
beviam"), a wild, barbaric rhythm in the minor, which passes into a prayer as they invoke the
protection of Heaven upon Charles XII. In the eighth scene occur the couplets of Gritzensko
as he sings the wild song of the Kalmucks. In charming contrast, in the next scene, Catharine
sings the gypsy rondo, which Jenny Lind made so famous ("Wlastla la santa"), which is characterized
by graceful coquetry; and this in turn is followed by a striking duet between Catharine and
Peter, in which the individual characteristics of the two are brought out in genuine Wagnerian
style. In the thirteenth scene occurs the bridal song of Prascovia ("Al suono dell'ora"), with
choral accompaniment, of a delicate and coquettish cast, leading up to the finale, beginning
with the soldiers' chorus ("Onor che a gloria"), with an accompaniment of drums and fifes,
again passing to a pathetic prayer ("Veglia dal ciel su lor") sung by Catharine amid the ringing
of bells as the bridal wreath is placed upon Prascovia's head, and closing with a florid barcarole
("Vascel che lasci") as she sails away.

The second act opens with ballet music, full of Eastern color, and then ensues one of those
choral combinations, like that in the second act of "the Huguenots," in which Meyerbeer so
much delighted,--a cavalry chorus ("Bel cavalier del cuor d'acciar"), followed by the Grenadier's
song, accompanied by chorus ("Granadier di Russia esperti"), the chorus taking up the "tr-r-r-um"
refrain in imitation of the drum. In the eighth scene we have the orgy in the tent in the form
of a very spirited dramatic trio, in which Peter sings a blithe drinking-song ("Vedi al par
del rubino"); this in turn resolving into a quintet ("Vezzose vivandiere"), and again into
a sextet, as Ismailoff enters with a letter for the Czar. The finale is a superb military picture,
made up of the imposing oath of death to the tyrant, the stirring Dessauer march, the cavalry
fanfare, and the Grenadiers' march, interwoven with the chorus of women as they cheer on the
marching soldiers.

The third act opens with a romanza ("Dal cor per iscacciare"), very tender and beautiful, in
which the rugged Czar shows us the sentimental side of his character. In the third scene occurs
a long buffo trio between Peter, Gritzensko, and Danilowitz, which is full of humor. In the
finale we have Catharine in the mad scene, singing the scena, "L'aurora alfin succede," with
bits of the old music running through the accompaniment; and in the final scene, as her reason
returns, breaking out in the florid bravura, "Non s'ode alcun," accompanied by the first and
second flutes, which is a triumph of virtuosity for the voice. This number was taken from "The
Camp in Silesia," and was given by Jenny Lind with immense success, not only in the latter
work, but upon the concert stage. The opera as a whole abounds in humor, its music is fresh
and brilliant, and its military character makes it specially attractive.

ROBERT THE DEVIL

"Robert le Diable," a grand opera in five acts, words by Scribe and Delavigne, was first produced
at the Académie, Paris, Nov. 21, 1831, with the following cast:--

  ALICE          Mlle. DORUS.
  ISABELLE       Mme. CINTI-DAMOREAU.
  THE ABBESS     Sigr. TAGLIONI.
  ROBERT         M. NOURRIT.
  BERTRAM        M. LEVASSEUR.
  RAIMBAUT       M. LAFONT.

In the following year two versions in English, both of them imperfect, were brought out by
the rival theatres, Covent Garden and Drury Lane. On the 20th of February it appeared at Drury
Lane under the title of "The Demon; or, the Mystic Branch," and at Covent Garden the next evening
as "The Fiend Father, or Robert Normandy." Drury Lane had twenty-four hours the start of its
rival, but in neither case were the representations anything but poor imitations of the original.
On the 11th of the following June the French version was produced at the King's Theatre, London,
with the same cast as in Paris, except that the part of Alice was taken by Mme. De Meric, and
that of the Abbess by the danseuse Mlle. Heberlé. On the 4th of May, 1847, the first Italian
version was produced at Her Majesty's Theatre, with Jenny Lind and Staudigl in the cast. Gruneisen,
the author of a brief memoir of Meyerbeer, who was present, says: "The night was rendered memorable,
not only by the massacre attending the general execution, but also by the début of Mlle. Lind
in this country, who appeared as Alice. With the exception of the débutante, such a disgraceful
exhibition was never before witnessed on the operatic stage. Mendelssohn was sitting in the
stalls, and at the end of the third act, unable to bear any longer the executive infliction,
he left the theatre."

The libretto of "Robert the Devil" is absurd in its conceptions and sensational in its treatment
of the story, notwithstanding that it came from such famous dramatists as Scribe and Delavigne;
and it would have been still worse had it not been for Meyerbeer. Scribe, it is said, wished
to introduce a bevy of sea-nymphs, carrying golden oars, as the tempters of Robert; but the
composer would not have them, and insisted upon the famous scene of the nuns, as it now stands,
though these were afterwards made the butt of almost endless ridicule. Mendelssohn himself,
who was in Paris at this time, writes: "I cannot imagine how any music could be composed on
such a cold, formal extravaganza as this." The story runs as follows: The scene is laid in
Sicily, where Robert, Duke of Normandy, who by his daring and gallantries had earned the sobriquet
of "the Devil," banished by his own subjects, has arrived to attend a tournament given by the
Duke of Messina. In the opening scene, while he is carousing with his knights, the minstrel
Raimbaut sings a song descriptive of the misdeeds of Robert. The latter is about to revenge
himself on the minstrel, when Alice, his foster-sister and the betrothed of Raimbaut, appears
and pleads with him to give up his wicked courses, and resist the spirit of evil which is striving
to get the mastery of him. Robert then confides to Alice his hopeless passion for Isabella,
daughter of the Duke. While they are conversing, Bertram, "the unknown," enters, and Alice
shrinks back affrighted, fancying she sees in him the evil spirit who is luring Robert on to
ruin. After she leaves, Bertram entices him to the gaming-table, from which he rises a beggar,--and
worse than this, he still further prejudices his cause with Isabella by failing to attend the
tournament, thus forfeiting his knightly honor.

The second act opens upon an orgy of the evil spirits in the cavern of St. Irene. Bertram is
present, and makes a compact with them to loose Robert from his influence if he does not yield
to his desires at once. Alice, who has an appointment with the minstrel in the cavern, overhears
the compact, and determines to save him. Robert soon appears, mourning over his losses and
dishonor; but Bertram promises to restore everything if he will visit the ruined Abbey of St.
Rosalie, and carry away a mystic branch which has the power of conferring wealth, happiness,
and immortality. He consents; and in the next scene Bertram pronounces the incantation which
calls up the buried nuns. Dazed with their ghostly fascinations, Robert seizes the branch and
flies. His first use of it is to enter the apartments of Isabella, unseen by her or her attendants,
all of whom become immovable in the presence of the mystic talisman. He declares his intention
of carrying her away; but moved by her entreaties he breaks the branch, which destroys the
charm. In the last act Bertram is at his side again, trying to induce him to sign the fatal
compact. The strains of sacred music which he hears, and the recollections of his mother, restrain
him. In desperation Bertram announces himself as his fiend-father. He is about to yield, when
Alice appears and reads to him his mother's warning against the fiend's temptation. As he still
hesitates, the clock strikes, and the spell is over. Bertram disappears, and the scene changes
to the cathedral, where Isabella in her wedding robes awaits the saved Robert.

From the musical point of view "Robert le Diable" is interesting, as it marks the beginning
of a new school of grand opera. With this work, Meyerbeer abandoned the school of Rossini and
took an independent course. He cut loose from the conventional classic forms and gave the world
dramatic music, melodies of extraordinary dramatic force, brilliant orchestration, stately
pageants, and theatrical effects. "Robert le Diable" was the first of the subsequent great
works from his pen which still further emphasized his new and independent departure. It is
only necessary to call attention to a few prominent numbers, for this opera has not as many
instances of these characteristics as those which followed and which are elsewhere described.
The first act contains the opening bacchanalian chorus ("Versiamo a tazza plena"), which is
very brilliant in character; the minstrel's song in the same scene ("Regnava un tempo in Normandia"),
with choral accompaniment; and a very tender aria for Alice ("Vanne, disse, al figlio mio"),
in which she delivers his mother's message to Robert. The second act opens with a spirited
duet between Bertram and Raimbaut, leading up to a powerful and characteristic chorus of the
evil spirits ("Demoni fatali"). An aria for Alice ("Nel lasciar in Normandia"), a duet between
Bertram and Alice ("Trionfo bramato"), and an intensely dramatic trio between Bertram, Alice,
and Robert ("Lo sguardo immobile"), prepare the way for the great scena of the nuns, known
as "La Temptation," in which Meyerbeer illustrates the fantastic and oftentimes ludicrous scene
with music which is the very essence of diabolism, and in its way as unique as the incantation
music in "Der Freischutz." The third act contains two great arias. The first ("Invano il fato"),
sung at the opening of the act by Isabella, and the second the world-famous aria "Roberto,
o tu che adoro," better known by the French words ("Robert! toi que j'aime"). The closing act
is specially remarkable for the great terzetto in its finale, which is one of the most effective
numbers Meyerbeer has written. The judgment of Hanslick, the great Viennese critic, upon this
work is interesting in this connection. He compares it with "William Tell" and "Masaniello,"
and finds that in musical richness and blended effects it is superior to either, but that a
single act of either of the works mentioned contains more artistic truth and ideal form than
"Robert le Diable,"--a judgment which is largely based upon the libretto itself, which he condemns
without stint.

DINORAH

"Dinorah," an opera in three acts, founded upon a Breton idyl, words by Barbiere and Carré,
was first produced at the Opera Comique, Paris, April 4, 1859, under the title of "Le Pardon
de Ploermel." It contains but three principal characters, and these were cast as follows: Dinorah,
Mme. Cabel; Corentin, M. Sainte-Foy; and Höel, M. Faure. On the 26th of July, 1859, Meyerbeer
conducted the work himself at Covent Garden, London, with Mme. Miolan-Carvalho as Dinorah,
and it was also produced in the same year in English by the Pyne-Harrison troupe. The first
representative of Dinorah in this country was Mlle. Cordier.

The scene of the opera is laid in Brittany, and when the first act opens, the following events
are supposed to have transpired. On one of the days set apart by the villagers of Ploermel
for a pilgrimage to the shrine of the Virgin, Höel, the goatherd, and Dinorah, his affianced,
set out to receive a nuptial benediction. The festivity is interrupted by a thunder-storm,
during which Les Herbiers, the dwelling-place of Dinorah, is destroyed by lightning. Dinorah
is in despair. Höel determines to make good the loss, and upon the advice of Tonick, an old
wizard, resolves to go in quest of a treasure which is under the care of the Korigans, a supernatural
folk belonging to Brittany. In order to wrest it from them, however, it is necessary for Höel
to quit the country and spend a year in solitude in a desolate region. He bravely starts off,
and Dinorah, thinking he has abandoned her, loses her wits, and constantly wanders about the
woods with her goat, seeking him. Meanwhile the year expires and Höel returns, convinced that
he has the secret for securing the treasure.

The overture to the work is unique among operatic overtures, as it has a chorus behind the
curtain interwoven with it. It is a picture of the opera itself, and contains a will-o'-the-wisp
passage, a rustic song with accompaniment of goat-bells, a storm, and in the midst of the storm
a chant to the Virgin, sung by the unseen chorus, and then a Pilgrimage march, the whole being
in the nature of a retrospect. The curtain rises upon a rustic chorus, after which Dinorah
appears, seeking her goat, and sings a slumber-song ("Si, carina, caprettina") which is very
graceful, and concludes with phrases in imitation of birds. In the next scene, Corentin, the
bagpiper, who has been away three months, and is nearly dead with terror of goblins and fairies,
returns to his cottage, and to reassure himself sings a very quaint and original song ("Sto
in casa alfine"), to the accompaniment of his pipe. Dinorah suddenly appears and enters the
cottage, and much to his alarm keeps him playing and singing, which leads to a very animated
vocal contest between her and the bagpiper. It is abruptly terminated, however, by the arrival
of Höel. Dinorah makes her escape by a window, and Höel relates to Corentin the story of the
Korigans' treasure. As the first person who touches it will die, he determines that Corentin
shall be his messenger, and to rouse his courage sends for wine. While Corentin is absent,
Höel sings an aria ("Se per prender") which has always been a favorite with barytones. After
Corentin returns, the tinkling of the goat's bell is heard. Dinorah appears in the distance,
and a charming trio closes the act, to the accompaniment of the whistling wind and booming
thunder on the contra basses and drums of the orchestra.

The second act opens with a drinking-song by wood-cutters, and as they withdraw, Dinorah enters,
seeking Höel. She sings a tender lament, which, as the moonlight falls about her, develops
into the famous "Shadow Song," a polka mazurka, which she sings and dances to her shadow. The
aria, "Ombra leggier," is fairly lavish in its texture of vocal embroidery, and has always
been a favorite number on the concert stage. The next scene changes to the Val Maudit (the
Cursed Vale), a rocky, cavernous spot, through which rushes a raging torrent bridged by a fallen
tree. Höel and Corentin appear in quest of the treasure, and the latter gives expression to
his terror in a very characteristic manner, with the assistance of the orchestra. Dinorah is
heard singing the legend of the treasure ("Chi primo al tesor"), from which Corentin learns
that whoever touches it first will die. He refuses to go on, and a spirited duet ensues between
them, which is interrupted by the entrance of Dinorah and her goat. Höel, fancying it is a
spirit sent to keep him back, sings a very beautiful aria ("Le crede il padre"). The act closes
with the fall of Dinorah, who attempts to cross the bridge, into the torrent, and her rescue
by Höel, to the accompaniment of a storm set to music. The scene, though melodramatic, is very
strong in its musical effects.

The last act opens with a scene in striking contrast, introduced with a quintet of horns, followed
by a hunter's solo, a reaper's solo, a duet for shepherds; and a quartet in the finale. Höel
arrives, bearing the rescued Dinorah, and sings to her an exquisite romance ("Sei vendicata
assai"). The magic of his singing and her bath in the torrent restore her wandering senses.
Höel persuades her that all which has transpired has been a dream. The old song of the Pardon
of Ploermel comes to her, and as she tries to recall it the chorus takes it up ("Santa Maria!
nostra donna") as it was heard in the overture. A procession is seen in the distance, and amid
some exquisite pageant music Höel and Dinorah wend their way to the chapel, where the nuptial
rites are supposed to be performed.

THE PROPHET.

"Le Prophète," an opera in five acts, words by Scribe, was first produced in Paris, April 16,
1849, with Mme. Viardot-Garcia as Fides, and M. Roger as John of Leyden. "The Prophet" was
long and carefully elaborated by its composer. Thirteen years intervened between it and its
predecessor, "The Huguenots;" but in spite of its elaboration it can only be said to excel
the latter in pageantry and spectacular effect, while its musical text is more declamatory
than melodious, as compared with "The Huguenots." In this sense it was disappointing when first
produced.

The period of the opera is 1534. The first act transpires in Dordrecht and Leyden, in Holland,
and the other three in Munster, Germany. The text closely follows the historical narrative
of the period when Munster was occupied by John of Leyden and his fanatics, who, after he had
been crowned by them as Emperor of Germany, was driven out by the bishop of the diocese. The
first act opens in the suburbs of Dordrecht, near the Meuse, with the château of Count Oberthal,
lord of the domain, in the distance. After a very fresh and vigorous chorus of peasants, Bertha,
a vassal of the Count, betrothed to John of Leyden, enters and sings a cavatina ("Il cor nel
sento"), in which she gives expression to emotions of delight at her approaching union. As
she cannot go to Leyden, where the marriage is to take place, without the Count's consent,
Fides, the mother of John, joins her to make the request. In the mean time the three Anabaptists,
Zacarie, Gione, and Mathisen, leaders of the revolt in Westphalia, arrive on their mission
of raising an insurrection in Holland, and in a sombre trio of a religious but stirring character
("O libertade") incite the peasants to rise against their rulers. They make an assault upon
the castle of Count Oberthal, who speedily repels them, and turns the tide of popular feeling
against the Anabaptists, by recognizing Gione as a former servant who had been discharged from
his service for dishonesty. Fides and Bertha then join in a romanza ("Della mora un giorno"),
imploring his permission for the marriage of Bertha and John. The Count, however, struck with
her beauty, not only refuses, but claims her for himself, and seizes both her and Fides, and
the act closes with a repetition of the warning chant of the Anabaptists.

The second act opens in the hostelry of John of Leyden, and is introduced with a waltz and
drinking-chorus, in the midst of which the Anabaptists arrive and are struck with his resemblance
to a portrait of David in the Munster Cathedral. From a very descriptive and highly wrought
scena ("Sotto le vasti arcati") sung by him they also learn that he is given to visions and
religious meditations. They assure him that he shall be a ruler; but in a beautiful romanza
("Un impero piu soave") he replies that his love for Bertha is his only sovereignty. Just as
they depart, Bertha, who has escaped, rushes in and claims his protection. He conceals her;
but has hardly done so when the Count enters with his soldiers, bringing Fides as a prisoner,
and threatens to kill her unless Bertha is given up. He hesitates; but at last, to save his
mother's life, delivers Bertha to her pursuers. Mother and son are left alone, and she seeks
to console him. In this scene occurs one of the most dramatic and intense of Meyerbeer's arias
("O figlio mio, che diro"), known more popularly by its French words, beginning, "Ah! mon fils."
It has enjoyed a world-wide popularity, and still holds its place in all its original freshness
and vigor. Fides hardly disappears before the ominous chant of the Anabaptists is heard again.
He does not need much persuasion now. They make their compact in a quartet of magnificent power,
which closes the act; and some of John's garments are left behind stained with blood, that
his mother may believe he has been killed.

The third act opens in the Anabaptists' camp in a Westphalian forest, a frozen lake near them,
and Munster, which they are besieging, in the distance. In the second scene Zacarie sings a
stirring pasan of victory ("In coppia son"), followed by the beautiful ballet music of the
skaters as they come bringing provisions to the troops. Count Oberthal meanwhile has been taken
prisoner and brought into camp. A buffo trio between himself and his captors follows, in which
Gione penetrates his disguise and recognizes him. They are about to fall upon him; but John,
learning from him that Bertha is still alive and in Munster, saves his life. He immediately
resolves to take the place by assault, rouses his followers with religious chants of a martial
character, and the act concludes with the march on the city.

The fourth act opens in the city itself after its capture. A mendicant appears in the public
square begging for bread. It is Fides; and in a plaintively declamatory aria of striking power
("Pieta! pieta!") she implores alms. She meets with Bertha disguised as a pilgrim, and bent
upon the destruction of the Prophet, who, she believes, has been the cause of John's death.
The next scene opens in the cathedral, where the coronation of the Prophet is to take place;
and among all Meyerbeer's pageants none are more imposing than this, with its accompaniment
of pealing bells, religious chants, the strains of the organ, and the stately rhythms of the
great Coronation March. It is a splendid prelude to the dramatic scene which follows. In the
midst of the gorgeous spectacle, the voice of Fides is heard claiming the Prophet as her son.
John boldly disavows her, and tells his followers to kill him if she does not confirm the disavowal.
The feelings of the mother predominate, and she declares that she is mistaken. The multitude
proclaim it a miracle, and Fides is removed as a prisoner. The dramatic situation in this finale
is one of great strength, and its musical treatment has hardly been excelled.

The last act opens with a trio by the Anabaptist leaders, who, learning that the enemy is approaching
in force, determine to save themselves by betraying John. In the third scene Fides in prison,
learning that John is coming to see her, invokes the punishment of Heaven upon him in the passionate
aria, "Spirto superno." A duet ("Tu che del cielo") of great power follows, in which Fides
convinces him of the errors of his course. As they are about to leave, Bertha enters, bent
upon the destruction of the palace, and in the trio which ensues learns that John and the Prophet
are one. She stabs herself, and dying in the arms of Fides curses him. The last scene opens
in a banqueting-hall of the palace, where John is revelling, with the Anabaptists around him.
He sings a bacchanalian song of a wild description ("Beviam e intorno"), and, as it closes,
the Bishop of Munster, the Elector, Count Oberthal, and the three Anabaptists who have betrayed
him, enter the apartment. The revenge which John has planned is now consummated. An explosion
is heard. Flames break out on all sides. Fides rushes in and forgives her son, and the Prophet,
his mother, and his enemies perish together.

Although "The Prophet" did not meet with the popularity of some of his other operas, it contains
some of the most vigorous and dramatic music Meyerbeer has written,--notably the arias of Zacarie
and Fides, the skating-ballet, the Coronation March, and the drinking-song. As a pageant, "The
Prophet" has never been surpassed.

THE AFRICAN.

"L'Africaine," a grand opera in five acts, words by Scribe, was first produced at the Académie,
Paris, April 28, 1865, with the following cast:--

  SELIKA            Mme. MARIE SAXE.
  INEZ              Mlle. MARIE BATTEO.
  VASCO DI GAMA     M. NAUDIN.
  NELUSKO           M. FAURE.
  DON PEDRO         M. BELVAL.
  HIGH PRIEST       M. OBIN.

The libretto of the opera was first given to Meyerbeer by Scribe in 1838; but such were the
alterations demanded by the composer, that at last Scribe withdrew it altogether, although
the music was already set. In 1852 he furnished a revised libretto, and the music was revised
to suit it. The work was not finished until 1860, and owing to the difficulty of filling the
cast satisfactorily, was not brought to rehearsal until the fall of 1863. While still correcting
and improving it, Meyerbeer died, and it was not produced until two years later. Shortly after
the Paris performance it was brought out in London, with Mlle. Lucca in the part of Selika.
Mme. Zucchi was one of the earliest representatives of the slave in this country.

The scene of the opera is laid in Portugal and Africa, and the first act opens in the council
chamber of the king of the former country. Inez, his daughter, is mourning the long absence
of her betrothed, Vasco di Gama the explorer. Her father, wishing to marry her to Don Pedro,
the President of the Council, tries to persuade her that Vasco has perished by shipwreck; but
the refutation of the story comes in the sudden appearance of Vasco himself, who is summoned
before the Council and narrates to them his discovery of a strange land, producing two of the
natives, Selika and Nelusko, as confirmations of his announcement. Don Pedro incites the inquisitors
to deny the truth of the story, at which Vasco breaks out in such a furious rage against them
that he is arrested and thrown into a dungeon. The second act opens in the prison, where Selika
is watching the slumbering Vasco. As he wakens she declares her love for him, and at the same
time saves him from the dagger of the jealous Nelusko. She also indicates to him the course
he should have taken to discover the island of which he is in quest. To save her lover, Inez
consents to wed Don Pedro; and the latter, to cheat Vasco of his fame, takes command of the
expedition under the pilotage of Nelusko, and sets sail for the new land. The Indian, thirsting
for vengeance, directs the vessel out of her course towards a reef; but Vasco, who has followed
in another vessel, arrives in time to warn Don Pedro of his danger. He disregards the warning,
distrusts his motives, and orders him to be shot; but before the sentence can be carried out,
the vessel strikes and is boarded by the savages, who slaughter the commander and most of his
men. The fourth act opens on the island which Selika pointed out on the map, and of which she
is queen. To save him from her subjects, she declares herself his spouse; but as the marriage
rite is about to be celebrated, Vasco hears the voice of Inez in the distance, deserts Selika,
and flies to her. In the last act, as the vessel sails away bearing Vasco and Inez back to
Portugal, Selika throws herself down under the poisonous manchineel-tree and kills herself
with its fatal flowers; expiring in the arms of Nelusko, who shares the same fate.

The first act opens with a very sweet but sombre ballad sung by Inez ("Del Tago sponde addio"),
which recalls the English song, "Isle of Beauty, fare thee well," and is followed by a bold
and flowing terzetto. The third scene opens with a noble and stately chorus ("Tu che la terra
adora") sung by the basses in unison, opening the Council before which Vasco appears; and the
act closes with an anathema hurled at him ("Ribelle, insolente"),--a splendid ensemble, pronounced
in its rhythm and majestic in the sweep of its passionate music.

The second act opens with the quaint slumber-song ("In grembo a me") which Selika sings to
Vasco in prison. It is oriental in color, and is broken here and there by a barcarole which
Vasco murmurs in his sleep. In striking contrast with its dreamy, quiet flow, it leads up to
a passionate aria ("Tranquillo e già") based upon a strong and fiery motive. In the next scene
follows an aria of equal vigor sung by Nelusko ("Figlia dei Re"), in which his devotion to
Selika changing to his hatred of Vasco is characterized by a grand crescendo. The act closes
with a vigorous sextet, the motive of which is strangely similar to the old song, "The Minstrel
Boy."

The third act contains a very impressive number, Nelusko's invocation of Adamastor ("Adamastor,
re dell' onde profondo"), but is mainly devoted to the ship scene, which, though grotesque
from the dramatic point of view, is accompanied by music of a powerful and realistic description,
written with all the vividness and force Meyerbeer always displays in his melodramatic ensembles.
The fourth act contains the most beautiful music of the opera,--Vasco's opening aria, "O Paradiso,"
an exquisite melody set to an equally exquisite accompaniment; the ensemble in the fourth scene,
in which Selika protects Vasco and Nelusko swears vengeance ("Al mio penar de fine"); the grand
duet between Vasco and Selika ("Dove son"), which has often been compared to the duet in the
fourth act of "The Huguenots," though it has not the passionate intensity of the scene between
Raoul and Valentin; and the graceful choruses of the Indian maidens and Inez's attendants which
close the act.

The last act contains two scenes,--the first in Selika's gardens, where there is a long and
spirited duet between Inez and Selika. The second, known as "La Scene du Mancenillier," has
a symphonic prelude in the form of a funeral march, based upon a fascinating melody, which
is beyond question the finest of Meyerbeer's orchestral numbers in any of his works. From this
point the story hastens to its tragic dénouement; and nearly the entire scene is occupied with
Selika's dying song, which opens with a majestic apostrophe to the sea ("Da qui io vedo il
mar"), then turns to sadness as she sings to the fatal tree ("O tempio sontuoso"), and at the
close develops into a passionate outcry of joy ("O douce extase"). Though the plot of "L'Africaine"
is often absurd, many of its incidents preposterous, and some of its characters unattractive,
the opera is full of effective situations, and repeatedly illustrates Meyerbeer's powers of
realization and his knowledge of effects.

MOZART.

Johann Chrysostomus Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart was born at Salzburg, Jan. 27, 1756. With this
wonderful child music was a divine gift, for his first work, a minuet and trio for piano, was
written in his fifth year. He began to study with his father when but three years of age, and
at once gave signs of extraordinary promise. His sister was also very talented; and in 1762
the father determined to travel with his prodigies. They were absent a year, the most of that
time being spent at Munich, Vienna, and Presburg, where they created a furor by their performances.
A longer journey was then resolved upon. The principal German cities, Brussels, Paris, London,
the Hague, Amsterdam, and the larger towns of Switzerland were visited in succession, and everywhere
the children were greeted with enthusiasm, particularly when they played before the French
and English courts. They returned to Salzburg in 1766, already famous all over Europe; and
during the next two years Mozart composed many minor works. In 1768 he was again in Vienna,
where he produced his little operetta, "Bastien und Bastienne," and in the same year the Archbishop
of Salzburg made him his concertmeister. The next year he went to Italy, where he both studied
and composed, and was received with extraordinary honors. In 1771 he brought out his opera,
"Mitridate, Rè di Ponto," at Milan, with great success. The next year he produced "Lucio Silla,"
also in Milan, and during the next four years composed a great number of symphonies and other
instrumental works. The mass of music which he composed up to his twenty-first year is simply
bewildering. In 1781 he brought out "Idomeneo" at Munich, which left no doubt as to his position
as a dramatic composer. In 1782 his "Entfuhrung aus dem Serail" was produced at Vienna by the
Emperor's command. His next great opera was "Le Nozze di Figaro," which was performed in 1786,
and made all Vienna go wild. "Don Giovanni" followed it the next year, and was received with
equal enthusiasm. In 1789 he composed the famous "Requiem;" and the same year the "Zauberflöte,"
his last great opera, appeared, and made a success even greater than its two great predecessors.
Two years later, Dec. 5, 1791, Mozart died in poverty, and amid the saddest of surroundings.
One of the world's greatest geniuses was carried to his last resting-place unaccompanied by
friends, and was buried in the common pauper's grave. God endowed him with a wonderful genius,
which the world of his time could not recognize.

THE MARRIAGE OF FIGARO.

"Le Nozze di Figaro," in the German version, "Die Hochzeit des Figaro," an opera buffa in four
acts, the words by Lorenzo da Ponte, after Beaumarchais's comedy, "Le Mariage de Figaro," was
first produced at the National Theatre, Vienna, May 1, 1786, with the following cast:--

  COUNTESS ALMAVIVA        Signora STORACE.
  SUSANNA                  Signora LASCHI.
  CHERUBINO                Signora MANDINI.
  MARCELLINA               Signora BUSSANI.
  BARBARINA                Signora GOTTLIEB.
  COUNT ALMAVIVA           Signor MANDINI.
  FIGARO                   Signor BENUCCI.
  BARTOLO                  Signor OCCHELEY.
  BASILIO                  Signor BUSSANI.

It was first brought out in Paris in 1793, with Beaumarchais's spoken dialogue, in five acts,
as "Le Mariage de Figaro," and in 1858 at the Théâtre Lyrique in the same city, in four acts,
as "Les Noces de Figaro," with text by Barbiere and Carré. The late Mme. Parepa-Rosa introduced
it in this country in its English form with great success.

At the time the libretto was written, Beaumarchais's satirical comedy, "Le Mariage de Figaro,"
had been performed all over Europe, and had attracted great attention. It had been prohibited
in Paris, and had caused great commotion in Vienna. Mozart's notice was thus drawn to it, and
he suggested it to Da Ponte for a libretto, and the Emperor Joseph subsequently commissioned
the composer to set it to music, though he had already composed a portion of it. The entire
opera was written during the month of April, and the wonderful finale to the second act occupied
him for two nights and a day. When it came to a performance, its success was remarkable. Kelly,
who was present, says, in his Reminiscences: "Never was there a greater triumph than Mozart
enjoyed with his 'Figaro.' The house was crowded to overflowing, and almost everything encored,
so that the opera lasted nearly double the usual time; and yet at its close the public were
unwearied in clapping their hands and shouting for Mozart." Popular as it was, it was soon
laid aside in Vienna through the influence of the Italian faction headed by Salieri, one of
Mozart's rivals.

The story of the opera is laid in Spain. Count Almaviva, who had won his beautiful Countess
with the aid of Figaro, the barber of Seville, becomes enamoured of her maid Susanna, and at
the same time, by the collusion of the two, in order to punish him, is made jealous by the
attentions paid to the Countess by Cherubino, the page. Meanwhile Figaro, to whom Susanna is
betrothed, becomes jealous of the Count for his gallantry to her. Out of these cross-relations
arise several humorous surprises. Besides these characters there are two others who have been
disappointed in love,--Bartolo, who has been rejected by Susanna, and Marcellina, whose affection
for Figaro has not been requited. The Count seeks to get rid of Cherubino by ordering him off
to the wars, but he is saved by Susanna, who disguises him in female attire. The Countess,
Susanna, Figaro, and Cherubino then conspire to punish the Count for his infidelity. The latter
suddenly appears at his wife's door, and finding it locked demands an entrance. Cherubino,
alarmed, hides himself in a closet and bars the door. The Count is admitted, and finding the
Countess in confusion insists upon searching the closet. He goes out to find some means of
breaking in the door, and Cherubino improves the opportunity to jump out of the window, while
Susanna takes his place and confronts the puzzled Count. Antonio, the gardener, comes in and
complains that some one has jumped from the window and broken his flower-pots. Figaro at once
asserts that he did it.

A ludicrous side plot unfolds at this point. Marcellina appears with a contract of marriage
signed by Figaro, bringing Bartolo as a witness. The Count decides that Figaro must fulfil
his contract, but the latter escapes by showing that he is the son of Marcellina, and that
Bartolo is his father. Meanwhile the main plot is developed in another conspiracy to punish
the Count. Susanna contrives a rendezvous with the Count at night in the garden, having previously
arranged with the Countess that she should disguise herself as the maid, the latter also assuming
the part of the Countess, and arrive in time to surprise the two. The page also puts in an
appearance, and gets his ears boxed for his attentions to the disguised Countess. Figaro, who
has been informed that Susanna and the Count are to meet in the garden, comes on the scene,
and in revenge makes a passionate declaration of love to the supposed Countess, upon which
the Count, who is growing more and more bewildered, orders lights and makes his supposed wife
unveil. The real wife does the same. Covered with confusion, he implores pardon of the Countess,
which is readily given. The two are reconciled, and Figaro and Susanna are united.

The whole opera is such a combination of playfulness and grace that it is a somewhat ungracious
task to refer to particular numbers. In these regards it is the most Mozartean of all the composer's
operas. The first act opens with a sparkling duet between Figaro and Susanna, in which she
informs him of the Count's gallantries. As she leaves, Figaro, to the accompaniment of his
guitar, sings a rollicking song ("Se vuol ballare, Signor Contino"), in which he intimates
that if the Count wishes to dance he will play for him in a style he little expects. In the
second scene Bartolo enters, full of his plans for vengeance, which he narrates in a grim and
grotesque song ("La Vendetta"). The fourth scene closes with an exquisite aria by Cherubino
("Non so piu cosa son"). After an exceedingly humorous trio ("Cosa sento? tosto andate") for
the Count, Basilio and Susanna, and a bright, gleeful chorus ("Giovanni lieti"), Figaro closes
the act with the celebrated aria, "Non piu andrai." Of the singing of this great song at the
first rehearsal of the opera Kelly says in his Reminiscences: "I remember Mozart well at the
first general rehearsal, in a red furred coat and a gallooned hat, standing on the stage and
giving the tempi. Benucci sang Figaro's aria, 'Non piu andrai,' with the utmost vivacity and
the full strength of his voice. I stood close beside Mozart, who exclaimed, sotto voce, 'Brava!
brava! Quite transported with delight, they all called out, 'Brava! brava, Maestro! viva! viva!
viva il grande Mozart!' In the orchestra the applause seemed to have no end, while the violin-players
rapped their bows on their desks. The little Maestro expressed his gratitude for the enthusiasm,
testified in so unusual a manner, by repeatedly bowing."

The second act is the masterpiece of the opera, and contains in itself music enough to have
made any composer immortal. It opens with a serious aria by the Countess ("Porgi amor") followed
by Cherubino's well-known romanza ("Voi che sapete,") one of the sweetest and most effective
songs ever written for contralto, and this in turn by Susanna's coquettish song, "Venite, inginocchiatevi,"
as she disguises Cherubino. A spirited trio and duet lead up to the great finale, begun by
the Count, ("Esci omai, garzon mal nato"). Upon this finale Mozart seems to have lavished the
riches of his musical genius with the most elaborate detail and in bewildering profusion. It
begins with a duet between the Count and Countess, then with the entrance of Susanna changes
to a trio, and as Figaro and Antonio enter, develops into a quintet. In the close, an independent
figure is added by the entrance of Marcellina, Barbarina, and Basilio, and as Antonio exits,
this trio is set against the quartet with independent themes and tempi.

The third act opens with a duet ("Crudel, perche finora") for the Count and Countess, followed
by a very dramatic scena for the Count, beginning with the recitative, "Hai già vinta la causa?"
which in turn leads up to a lively and spirited sextet ("Riconosci in questo amplesso"). The
two numbers which follow the sextet are recognized universally as two of the sweetest and most
melodious ever written,--the exquisite aria, "Dove Sono," for the Countess, and the "Zephyr
Duet," as it is popularly known ("Canzonetta su l'aria. Che soave zeffiretto"), which stands
unsurpassed for elegance, grace, and melodious beauty. The remaining numbers of prominent interest
are a long and very versatile buffo aria for tenor ("In quegli anni"), sung by Basilio, Figaro's
stirring march number ("Ecco la marcia"), and a lovely song for Susanna ("Deh, vieni, non tardar").
The opera is full of life and human interest. Its wonderful cheerfulness and vital sympathy
appeal to every listener, and its bright, free, joyous tone from beginning to end is no less
fascinating than the exquisite melodies with which Mozart has so richly adorned it. Like "Don
Giovanni" and the "Magic Flute," the best test of the work is, that it is rounding its first
century as fresh and bright and popular as ever.

DON GIOVANNI.

"Don Giovanni," an opera buffa in two acts, words by Da Ponte, was first produced at Prague,
Oct. 29, 1787. The full title of the work is "Il dissoluto punito, ossia il Don Giovanni,"
and the subject was taken from a Spanish tale by Tirso de Molina, called "El combidado de piedra."
The original cast of the opera was as follows:--

  DONNA ANNA               Signora TERESA SAPORITTI.
  DONNA ELVIRA             Signora MICELLI.
  ZERLINA                  Signora BONDINI.
  DON OTTAVIO              Signor BAGLIONI.
  DON GIOVANNI             Signor LUIGI BASSI.
  LEPORELLO                Signor FELICE PONZIANI.
  MASETTO and DON PEDRO    Signor LOLLI.

The success of the "Marriage of Figaro" prepared the way for "Don Giovanni." Mozart wrote the
opera in Prague, and completed it, except the overture, Oct. 28, 1787, about six weeks after
he arrived in the city. The first performance took place the next evening. The overture was
written during the night, the copyist received the score at seven o'clock in the morning, and
it was played at eight in the evening. He had only a week for stage rehearsals, and yet the
opera created a furor. As an instance of his extraordinary memory, it is said that the drum
and trumpet parts to the finale of the second act were written without the score, from memory.
When he brought the parts into the orchestra, he remarked, "Pray, gentlemen, be particularly
attentive at this place," pointing to one, "as I believe that there are four bars either too
few or too many." His remark was proved true. It is also said that in the original scores the
brass instruments frequently have no place, as he wrote the parts continually on separate bits
of paper, trusting to his memory for the score. The next year (1788) the opera was brought
out in Vienna, and for this production he wrote four new numbers,--a recitative and aria for
Donna Elvira ("In quali excessi, o numi"); an aria for Masetto ("Ho capito, Signor, si"); a
short aria for Don Ottavio ("Dalla sua pace"); and a duet for Zerlina and Leporello ("Per queste
tue manine").

The scene of the opera is laid in Spain. Don Giovanni, a licentious nobleman, becomes enamoured
of Donna Anna, the daughter of the Commandant of Seville, who is betrothed to Don Ottavio.
He gains admission to her apartments at night, and attempts to carry her away; but her cries
bring her father to her rescue. He attacks Don Giovanni, and in the encounter is slain. The
libertine, however, in company with his rascally servant, Leporello, makes good his escape.
While the precious pair are consulting about some new amour, Donna Elvira, one of his victims,
appears and taxes him with his cruelty; but he flies from her, leaving her with Leporello,
who horrifies her with an appalling list of his master's conquests in various countries. Don
Giovanni next attempts the ruin of Zerlina, a peasant girl, upon the very eve of her marriage
with her lover, Masetto. Donna Elvira, however, appears and thwarts his purposes, and also
discovers him to Donna Anna as the murderer of her father, whereupon she binds her lover, Don
Ottavio, to avenge his death. Don Giovanni does not abandon his purpose, however. He gives
a fête, and once more seeks to accomplish Zerlina's ruin, but is again thwarted by her three
friends.

The second act opens in a public square of Seville at night. Don Giovanni and Leporello appear
before the house of Donna Elvira, where Zerlina is concealed. Leporello, disguised in his master's
cloak, and assuming his voice, lures Donna Elvira out, and feigning repentance for his conduct
induces her to leave with him. Don Giovanni then proceeds to enter the house and seize Zerlina;
but before he can accomplish his purpose, Masetto and his friends appear, and supposing it
is Leporello before them, demand to know where his master is, as they are bent upon killing
him. Don Giovanni easily disposes of Masetto, and then rejoins his servant near the equestrian
statue, which has been erected to the memory of the murdered Don Pedro. To their astonishment
the statue speaks, and warns the libertine he will die before the morrow. Don Giovanni laughs
at the prophecy, and invites the statue to a banquet to be given the next day at his house.
While the guests are assembled at the feast, an ominous knock is heard at the door and the
statue unceremoniously enters. All except Leporello and Don Giovanni fly from the room in terror.
The doomed man orders an extra plate, but the statue extends its hand and invites him to sup
with it. He takes the marble hand, and its cold fingers clutch him in a firm grasp. Thrice
the statue urges him to repent, and as many times he refuses; whereupon, as it disappears,
demons rise, seize Don Giovanni, and carry him to the infernal regions.

Musically considered, "Don Giovanni" is regarded as Mozart's greatest opera, though it lacks
the bright joyousness of the "Marriage of Figaro," and its human interest. Its melodies are
more pronounced, and have entered more freely into general use, however, than those of the
former. Repulsive as the story is, some of the melodies which illustrate it have been impressed
into the service of the church. The first act is introduced with a humorous aria by Leporello
("Notte e giorno faticar"), in which he complains of his treatment by his master. After the
murder of Don Pedro, in the second scene, occurs a trio between Donna Elvira, Don Giovanni,
and Leporello, the leading motive of which is a beautiful aria sung by Donna Elvira ("Ah! chi
mi dici mai"). The scene closes with the great buffo aria of Leporello ("Madamina il catalogo")
popularly known as the "Catalogue Song," which is full of broad humor, though its subject is
far from possessing that quality. In the third scene occur the lovely duet for Don Giovanni
and Zerlina ("La ci darem, la mano"), two arias of great dramatic intensity for Donna Elvira
("Mi tradi") and Donna Anna ("Or sai chi l'onore"), and Don Giovanni's dashing song, "Finchè
dal vino," the music of which is in admirable keeping with the reckless nature of the libertine
himself. The last scene is a treasure-house of music, containing the exquisitely coquettish
aria, "Batti, batti," which Zerlina sings to the jealous Masetto, and the beautiful trio of
Donna Anna, Donna Elvira, and Don Ottavio, known as the Mask Trio, set off against the quaint
minuet music of the fête and the hurly-burly which accompanies the discovery of Don Giovanni's
black designs.

The second act opens with a humorous duet between master and servant ("Eh, via, buffone"),
followed by the trio, "Ah! taci, inquisto care," as Elvira appears at her window. After she
leaves with Leporello, Don Giovanni sings a serenade ("Deh? vieni all finestra") to Zerlina,
which is interrupted by the appearance of Masetto and his friends. Zerlina is summoned to the
scene by the cries of Masetto after Don Giovanni has beaten him, and sings to him for his consolation
the beautiful aria, "Vedrai carino," which has more than once been set to sacred words, and
has become familiar as a church tune, notwithstanding the unsanctity of its original setting.
The second scene opens with a strong sextet ("Sola, sola, in bujo loco"), followed by the ludicrously
solemn appeal of Leporello, "Ah! pieta, signori miei," and that aria beloved of all tenors,
"Il mio tesoro." The finale is occupied with the scenes at the statue and at the banquet, a
short scene between Donna Anna and Don Ottavio intervening, in which she sings the aria, "Non
mi dir." The statue music throughout is of a sepulchral character, gradually developing into
strains almost as cold and ominous as the marble of the Commandant himself, and yet not without
an element of the grotesque as it portrays the terror of Leporello.

It is said that in revenge at his Italian rivals, Mozart introduced an aria from Martin's "Cosa
Rara," arranged for wind instruments, and also a favorite aria of Sarti's, to be played at
the banquet when the hungry Leporello beholds his master at the table and watches for some
of the choice morsels, and parodied them in an amusing manner. He never could retain an enmity
very long, however, and so at the end of the banquet he parodied one of his own arias, the
famous "Non piu andrai," by giving it a comical turn to suit Leporello's situation. The criticism
of one of the best biographers of Mozart upon this opera is worth repeating in this connection:
"Whether we regard the mixture of passions in its concerted music, the profound expression
of melancholy, the variety of its situations, the beauty of its accompaniment, or the grandeur
of its heightening and protracted scene of terror--the finale of the second act,--'Don Giovanni'
stands alone in dramatic eminence."

THE MAGIC FLUTE.

"Die Zauberflöte," an opera in two acts, words by Emanuel Schickaneder, was first produced
at Vienna, Sept. 30, 1791, with the following cast:

  QUEEN OF NIGHT     Mme. HOFER.
  PAMINA             Mlle. GOTTLIEB.
  PAPAGENA           Mme. GORL.
  TAMINO             Herr SCHACK.
  MONOSTATOS         Herr GORL.
  SARASTRO           Herr SCHICKANEDER, Sr.
  PAPAGENO           Herr SCHICKANEDER, Jr.

The "Magic Flute" was the last great work of the composer, and followed the "Cosi fan tutte,"
which was given in January, 1791. In 1780 Mozart had made the acquaintance of Schickaneder
at Salzburg. He was a reckless, dissipated theatre manager, and at the time of the composition
of the "Magic Flute" was running a small theatre in Vienna. The competition of the larger theatres
had nearly beggared him, and in the midst of his perplexities he applied to Mozart to write
him an opera, and intimated that he had discovered an admirable subject for a fairy composition.
Mozart at first objected; but Schickaneder, like himself, was a Freemason; he had been his
companion in dissipation, and exercised a great influence over him. Mozart at last consented.
A compact was made, and Schickaneder set to work on the libretto. As he was a popular buffoon,
he invented the part of Papageno, the bird-catcher, for himself, and arranged that it should
be dressed in a costume of feathers. It is a trivial part, but Schickaneder intended to tickle
the fancy of the public, and succeeded. The first act was finished, when it was found that
the same subject had been chosen by a rival theatre, the Leopold Stadt, which speedily announced
the opera of "Kaspar der Fagottist, oder die Zauber-Zither," by a popular composer, Wenzel
Müller. The piece had a successful run, and in order to prevent a duplication, Schickaneder
reversed the point of his story, and changed the evil magician, who stole the daughter of the
Queen of Night, into a great philosopher and friend of man. It is owing to this change that
we have the magnificent character of Sarastro, with its impressive music.

The scene of the opera is laid in Egypt. Sarastro, the high-priest of Isis, has induced Pamina
to leave her mother, Astrifiamenti, the Queen of Night, who represents the spirit of evil,
and come to his temple, where she may be trained in the ways of virtue and wisdom. At the opening
of the opera the dark Queen is trying to discover some plan of recovering her daughter and
punishing Sarastro. In the first act appears Tamino, an Egyptian prince, who has lost his way,
and is attacked by a huge serpent, from which he is rescued by the three attendants of the
Queen. The latter accosts him, tells him her daughter's story, and demands that, as the cost
of his deliverance, he shall rescue her. He consents. She gives him a magic flute, and with
his companion Papageno, a rollicking bird-catcher, who is also presented with a magical chime
of bells, they set out for Sarastro's temple. Papageno arrives there first, and in time to
rescue Pamina from the persecutions of Monostatos, a slave, who flies when he beholds Papageno
in his feather costume, fancying him the Devil. They seek to make their escape, but are intercepted.
Tamino also is caught, and all are brought before Sarastro. The prince consents to become a
novitiate in the sacred rites, and to go through the various stages of probation and purification,
and Pamina again returns to her duties. They remain faithful to their vows, and the last ordeal,
that of passing through a burning lake up to the altar of the temple, is triumphantly accomplished.
The Queen of Night, however, does not abandon her scheme of revenge. She appears to Pamina
in her sleep, gives her a dagger, and swears that unless she murders Sarastro she will cast
her off forever. Pamina pays no heed to her oath, but goes on with her sacred duties, trusting
to Sarastro's promise that if she endures all the ordeals she will be forever happy. In the
closing scene, Monostatos, who has been inflamed against Sarastro by the Queen, seeks to kill
him, but is vanquished by the might of the priest's presence alone. The night of the ordeals
is over. At a sign from Sarastro, the, full sunlight pours in upon them. The evil spirits all
vanish, and Tamino and Pamina are united amid the triumphant choruses of the priests and attendants,
as the reward of their fidelity.

In the opening scene, after the encounter of Tamino with the serpent, Papageno has a light
and catching song ("Der Vogelfänger bin ich ja"), which, like all of Papageno's music, was
specially written for Schickaneder, and has been classed under the head of the "Viennese ditties."
Melodious as Mozart always is, these songs must be regarded as concessions to the buffoon who
sang them. Papageno's song is followed by another in a serious strain ("Dies Bildniss ist bezaubernd
schön") sung by Tamino. In the sixth scene occurs the first aria for the Queen of Night ("O
zittre nicht, mein lieber Sohn"), which, like its companion to be mentioned later, is a remarkable
exercise in vocal power, range, and gymnastics, written for an exceptional voice. The next
scene, known as the Padlock Quintet, is very simple and flowing in style, and will always be
popular for its humorous and melodious character. In the eleventh scene occurs the familiar
duet between Pamina and Papageno, "Bei Männern, welche Liebe füllen," which has done good service
for the church, and will be recognized in the English hymn version, "Serene I laid me down."
It leads up to the finale, beginning, "Zum Ziehle führt dich diese Bahn," and containing a
graceful melody for Tamino ("O dass ich doch im Stande wäre"), and another of the Viennese
tunes, "Könnte jeder brave Mann,"--a duet for Papageno and Pamina, with chorus.

The second act opens with a stately march and chorus by the priests, leading up to Sarastro's
first great aria ("O Isis und Osiris"), a superb invocation in broad, flowing harmony, and
the scene closes with a strong duet by two priests ("Bewahret euch vor Weibertücken.") The
third scene is a quintet for Papageno, Tamino, and the Queen's three attendants ("Wie ihr an
diesem Shreckensort?"), and is followed by a sentimental aria by Monostatos ("Alles fühlt der
Liebe Freuden"). In the next scene occurs the second and greatest aria of the Queen of Night
("Der Hölle Rache kocht"), which was specially written to show off the bravura ability of the
creator of the part, and has been the despair of nearly all sopranos since her time. In striking
contrast with it comes the majestic aria for Sarastro in the next scene ("In diesen heil'gen
Hallen"), familiarly known on the concert-stage by its English title, "In these sacred Halls,"
the successful performance of which may well be the height of any basso's ambition. In the
twelfth scene there is a terzetto by the three boys ("Seid uns zum zweitenmal"), and in the
next scene a long and florid aria for Pamina ("Ach! ich fühl's es ist verschwunden"), full
of plaintive chords and very sombre in color. The sixteenth scene contains another stately
chorus of priests ("O Isis und Osiris"), based upon a broad and massive harmony, which is followed
by a terzetto between Sarastro, Pamina, and Tamino ("Soll ich dich, Theurer nicht mehr sehen?").
Once more a concession to the buffoon occurs in a melody "Ein Mädchen oder Weibchen," which
would be commonplace but for Mozart's treatment of the simple air. The finale begins with another
terzetto for the three boys ("Bald prangt, den Morgen zu verkünden"). It may be termed a finale
of surprises, as it contains two numbers which are as far apart in character as the poles,--the
first, an old choral melody ("Der, welcher wandelt diese Strasse"), the original being, "Christ,
our Lord, to Jordan came," set to an accompaniment, strengthened by the trombones and other
wind instruments; and the second, a nonsense duet ("Pa-pa-Papageno") for Papageno and Papagena,
which would close the opera in a burst of childish hilarity but for the solemn concluding chorus
of the priests ("Heil sei euch Geweithen").

The great charm of the opera is its originality, and the wonderful freshness and fruitfulness
of the composer in giving independent and characteristic melodies to every character, as well
as the marvellous combination of technicality with absolute melody. Beethoven said of it that
this was Mozart's one German opera in right of the style and solidity of its music. Jahn, in
his criticism, says: "'The Zauberflöte' has a special and most important position among Mozart's
operas. The whole musical conception is pure German, and here for the first time German opera
makes free and skilful use of all the elements of finished art."

ROSSINI.

Gioachini Antonio Rossini was born at Pesaro, Italy, Feb. 29, 1792. His early lessons in music
were taken with Tesei, and as a lad he also appeared upon the stage as a singer. In 1807 he
was admitted to the class of Padre Mattei at the Bologna Conservatory, where he took a prize
for a cantata at the end of his first year. At the beginning of his career in Italy he was
commissioned to write an opera for Venice. It was "La Cambiale di Matrimonio," an opera buffa
in one act, and was produced in 1810. During the next three years he wrote several works for
Venice and Milan, which were successful, but none of them created such a furor as "Tancredi."
This was followed by "L' Italiana in Algeri," "Aureliano in Palmira," and "Il Turco in Italia."
In 1815 appeared "The Barber of Seville." Strange as it may seem, it was at first condemned,
not on its merits, but because the composer had trenched, as it was supposed, upon the ground
already occupied by the favorite Paisiello, though he applied to the latter before writing
it, and received his assurances that he had no objection to his use of the same subject. "Otello"
followed the "Barber" at Naples in 1816, and "Cenerentola" in 1817, and both were extraordinarily
successful. The "Gazza Ladra" was produced at Milan in 1817, and was followed by "Armida" at
Naples in the same year. His next great work was the oratorio, "Moses in Egypt," which is also
given as opera. The "Donna del Lago," based upon Walter Scott's "Lady of the Lake," was produced
at Naples in 1819. The same year he opened the Carnival in Milan with "Bianca e Faliero," and
before its close he produced "Maometto secondo" at Naples. During the next two or three years
his muse was very prolific, and in 1823 appeared another of his great works, "Semiramide,"
which made a furor at Venice. That year he went to London and gave concerts, in which he sang,
and thence to Paris, which now became his home. His greatest work for Paris was "William Tell,"
which was produced in 1829, and it was also his last, though by an arrangement with the Government
of Charles X. it was to be the first of a series of five. The revolution of 1830 destroyed
his plans. In 1836 he heard Meyerbeer's "Huguenots," and resolved to write no more. Four years
before this he had written the "Stabat Mater," but it was not produced complete until 1842.
From this time on he lived at his villa at Passy the life of a voluptuary and died there Nov.
13, 1868. The catalogue of his works is immense, including fifty operas alone, of which in
a necessarily brief sketch it has been possible to mention only those best known.

THE BARBER OF SEVILLE.

"Il Barbiere di Siviglia," an opera buffa in two acts, words by Sterbini, founded on Beaumarchais's
comedy, was first produced at the Argentina Theatre, Rome, Feb. 5, 1816, with the following cast:--

  ROSINA            Mme. GIORGI RIGHETTI.
  BERTAO            Mlle. ROSSI.
  FIGARO            Sig. LUIGI ZAMBONI.
  COUNT ALMAVIVA    Sig. GARCIA.
  BARTOLO           Sig. BOTTICELLI.
  BASILIO           Sig. VITTARELLI.

The story of the writing of "The Barber of Seville" is of more than ordinary interest. Rossini
had engaged to write two operas for the Roman Carnival of 1816. The first was brought out Dec.
26, 1815, and the same day he bound himself to furnish the second by Jan. 20, 1816, with no
knowledge of what the libretto would be. Sterbini furnished him with the story of the "Barber"
by piecemeal, and as fast as the verses were given him he wrote the music. The whole work was
finished in less than three weeks. Its original title was "Almaviva, ossia l'inutile precauzione,"
to distinguish it from Paisiello's "Barber of Seville." The original overture was lost in some
manner, and that of "Aureliano" substituted. In the scene beneath Rosina's balcony Garcia introduced
a Spanish air of his own; but it failed, and before the second performance Rossini wrote the
beautiful cavatina, "Ecco ridente il cielo" in its place, the melody borrowed from the opening
chorus of his "Aureliano," and that in turn from his "Ciro in Babilonia." The subject of the
effective trio, "Zitti, zitti," was taken from Haydn's "Seasons," and the aria sung by the
duenna Berta ("Il vechiotto cerca moglie"), from a Russian melody he had heard a lady sing
in Rome and introduced for her sake. For the music-lesson scene Rossini wrote a trio which
has been lost; and thus an opportunity has been given Rosinas to interpolate what they please.

The scene of the opera is laid at Seville, Spain. Count Almaviva has fallen in love with Rosina,
the ward of Dr. Bartolo, with whom she resides, and who wishes to marry her himself. After
serenading his mistress, who knows him only by the name of Count Lindoro, he prevails upon
Figaro, the factotum of the place, to bring about an interview with her. In spite of her guardian's
watchfulness, as well as that of Don Basilio, her music-teacher, who is helping Bartolo in
his schemes, she informs the Count by letter that she returns his passion. With Figaro's help
he succeeds in gaining admission to the house disguised as a drunken dragoon, but this stratagem
is foiled by the entrance of the guard, who arrest him. A second time he secures admission,
disguised as a music-teacher, and pretending that he has been sent by Don Basilio, who is ill,
to take his place. To get into Bartolo's confidence he produces Rosina's letter to himself,
and promises to persuade her that the letter has been given him by a mistress of the Count,
and thus break off the connection between the two. By this means he secures the desired interview,
and an elopement and private marriage are planned. In the midst of the arrangements, however,
Don Basilio puts in an appearance, and the disconcerted lover makes good his escape. Meanwhile
Bartolo, who has Rosina's letter, succeeds in arousing the jealousy of his ward with it, who
thereupon discloses the proposed elopement and promises to marry her guardian. At the time
set for the elopement the Count and Figaro appear. A reconciliation is easily effected, a notary
is at hand, and they are married just as Bartolo makes his appearance with officers to arrest
the Count. Mutual explanations occur, however, and all ends happily.

The first act opens after a short chorus, with the serenade, "Ecco ridente in cielo," the most
beautiful song in the opera. It begins with a sweet and expressive largo and concludes with
a florid allegro, and is followed by a chorus in which the serenaders are dismissed. In the
second scene Figaro enters, and after some brief recitatives sings the celebrated buffo aria,
"Largo al factotum," in which he gives an account of his numerous avocations. The aria is full
of life and gayety, and wonderfully adapted to the style of the mercurial Figaro.

A light and lively duet between Figaro and the Count, closing with the sprightly melody, "Ah!
che d'amore," leads up to the chamber aria of Rosina, so well known on the concert-stage, "Una
voce poco fa," which is not only very expressive and of great compass, but is remarkably rich
in ornamentation. A short dialogue in recitative then occurs between Bartolo and Basilio, in
which they plot to circumvent Rosina by calumny, which gives occasion for the Calumny aria,
as it is generally known ("La calunnia"), a very sonorous bass solo, sung by Basilio. Another
dialogue follows between Figaro and Rosina, leading to the florid duet, "E il maestro io faccio."
A third dialogue follows between Rosina and Bartolo, ending in a bass aria ("Non piu tacete"),
very similar in its general style to the Calumny song, but usually omitted in performances.
In the tenth scene the Count arrives disguised as the drunken soldier, and the finale begins.
It is composed of three scenes very ingeniously arranged, and full of glittering dialogue and
very melodious passages.

The second act opens with a soliloquy by Bartolo ("Ma redi il mio destino"), in which he gives
vent to his suspicions. It is interrupted at last by a duet with the Count, in which the two
characters are strikingly set off by the music. The music-lesson scene follows, in which the
artist personating Rosina is given an opportunity for interpolation. In the next scene occurs
a dialogue quintet, which is followed by a long aria ("Sempre gridi") by the duenna Bertha,
called by the Italians the "Aria de Sorbetto," because the people used to eat ices while it
was sung; reminding one of the great aria from "Tancredi," "Di tanti palpiti," which they called
the "aria dei rizzi," because Rossini composed it while cooking his rice. In the eighth scene,
after a long recitative, an instrumental prelude occurs, representing a stormy night, followed
by a recitative in which the Count reveals himself, leading up to a florid trio, and this in
turn to the elegant terzetto, "Zitti, zitti." A bravura and finale of light and graceful melody
close the opera.

SEMIRAMIDE

"Semiramide" a lyric tragedy in two acts, words by Gaetano Rossi, the subject taken from Voltaire's
"Semiramis," was first produced at the Fenice, Venice, Feb. 3, 1823, with the following cast:--

  SEMIRAMIDE         Mme. ROSSINI-COLBRAN.
  ARSACES            Mme. MARIANI.
  IDRENO             Mr. SINCLAIR.
  ASSUR              Sig. GALLI.
  OROE               Sig. MARIANI.

On the 9th of July it was produced in French at the Académie, Paris, as "Semiramis," with Carlotta
Marchisio as Semiramide, Barbara, her sister, as Arsaces, and M. Obin as Assur. At Rossini's
request M. Carafa arranged the recitatives and wrote the ballet music. "Semiramide" was the
last opera Rossini wrote for Italy; and so far did he depart from the conventional Italian
style, that he was charged with imitating the German. It was probably for this reason that
the opera when first performed did not meet with a kindly reception from the Venetians. Although
he was occupied six months in negotiating for his stipulated price (one thousand dollars),
he wrote the opera in three weeks. Of its first performance, a correspondent of the "Harmonicon,"
who was present, writes: "The first act, which lasted two hours and fifteen minutes, was received
very coldly, with the exception of one passage in the overture, which overture, however, was
unconscionably long. The second act, which lasted two hours and a half, began to please in
an air of Mariani, but the applause was rather directed to this favorite singer. After this
a duet between her and Colbran, together with an air of Galli, and particularly a terzetto
between him and the two ladies, were well received. Rossini was also called for at the end
of the second act. It is all over with Madame, his own wife" (Mme. Colbran), who took the title-rôle.

The scene of the opera is laid in Babylon, and the story briefly told is as follows: Ninus,
the King of Babylon, has been murdered by his Queen, Semiramis, aided by Assur, a prince enamoured
of her and aspiring to the throne. One of the Queen's warriors, Arsaces, supposed to be of
Scythian origin, but in reality her own son, returns from a foreign expedition and is loaded
with honors for the victory he has won. Semiramis, ignorant of his parentage, has a secret
passion for him, he in the mean time being devoted to Azema, one of the princesses royal. As
all gather together in the temple to swear allegiance to the Queen, the gates of Ninus's tomb
suddenly open, and his ghost appears and announces that Arsaces will be the successor to the
crown. At midnight Semiramis, Assur, and Arsaces meet at the tomb, and by mistake Assur stabs
her instead of Arsaces, who in turn kills Assur, and, all obstacles being removed, is united
to Azema and ascends the throne.

An introductory chorus of Babylonians and a terzetto by Idreno, Assur, and Oroe open the opera
and lead up to the first appearance of Semiramis, which is followed by a very dramatic quartet
("Di tanti regi"). In the fourth scene Arsaces has a very brilliant aria ("O! come da quel
di"), which also did service in one or two of Rossini's other operas, and is followed by a
very animated duet ("Bella imago degli dei") between himself and Assur. The eighth scene is
introduced by a graceful female chorus which leads to Semiramis's brilliant and well-known
aria, "Bel raggio." In the tenth scene occurs an elegant duet ("Serbami agnor si fido"), followed
in the next scene by a stately priests' march and chorus ("Ergi omai la fronte altera"), set
to ecclesiastical harmony and accompanied by full military band as well as orchestra, this
being the first instance where a military band was used in Italian opera. It leads to the finale,
where Semiramis on her throne announces to her people her choice for their future king. The
oath of allegiance follows in an impressive quartet with chorus ("Giuro al numi"), and a defiant
aria by the Queen leads to the sudden appearance of the ghost of Ninus, accompanied by characteristic
music repeated in quintet with chorus. As the ghost speaks, the statue scene in Don Giovanni
is inevitably recalled, especially in some phrases which are literally copied.

The second act opens with a vindictively passionate duet ("Assur, icenni mici") between Assur
and Semiramis, closing with a fierce outburst of hatred ("La forza primiera"). The scene is
a very long and spirited one, and is followed by a second chorus of priests, leading to a great
aria with chorus ("Ah! tu gelar mi fai") for Arsaces. In the fifth scene occurs a long duet
between Arsaces and Semiramis, the second part of which ("Giorno d'orrore") is the strongest
number in the opera. Though intensely passionate in its tone, the music is smooth and flowing
and very florid for both voices. The seventh scene is composed of a scena, aria and chorus,
followed by still another chorus in the mausoleum. Semiramis sings a prayer of great pathos
and beauty ("Ah mio pregar"). A terzetto ("L'usato ardir"), which like the mausoleum chorus
is based upon an aria from Mozart's "Cosi fan tutti," closes the opera. "The Harmonicon," to
which reference has already been made, in an analysis of the work, has the following apt criticism:
"It has been said, and truly, that 'Semiramide' is composed in the German style, but it is
the German style exaggerated. Rossini is become a convert to this school, and his conversion
does his judgment credit, though like all proselytes he passes into extremes. Not satisfied
with discarding the meagre accompaniments of the Italian composers, he even goes far beyond
the tramontane masters in the multitude and use of instruments, and frequently smothers his
concerted pieces and choruses by the overwhelming weight of his orchestra." But what would
the "Harmonicon" have said, had it had Wagner's instrumentation before it?

WILLIAM TELL

"William Tell," an opera in three acts, words by Étienne Jouy and Hippolyte Bis, the subject
taken from Schiller's drama of the same name, was first produced at the Académie, Paris, Aug.
3, 1829, with the following cast:--

  MATHILDE       Mme. DAMOREAU-CINTI.
  JEMMY          Mme. DABODIE.
  HEDWIG         Mlle. MORI.
  ARNOLD         M. NOURRIT.
  WALTER         M. LEVASSEUR.
  TELL           M. DABODIE.
  RUODI          M. DUPONT.
  RODOLPHE       M. MASSOL.
  GESSLER        M. PRÉVOST.
  LEUTOLD        M. PRÉVÔT.

Rossini wrote for Paris only two new operas, "Le Comte Ory" and "William Tell,"--the latter
his masterpiece in the serious style. The libretto was first prepared by M. Jouy, but it was
so bad that M. Bis was called in, and to him is due the whole of the second act. Even after
the two authors had changed and revised it, Rossini had to alter it in many places. When it
was first performed the weakness of the drama was at once recognized, though its music was
warmly welcomed, especially by the critical. It was represented fifty-six times in its original
form, and was then cut down to three acts, the original third act being omitted and the fourth
and fifth condensed into one. For three years after this time the second act was alone performed
in Paris; but when M. Duprez made his début in the part of Arnold, a fresh enthusiasm was aroused,
and there was a genuine Tell revival.

The scene of the opera is laid in Switzerland, period the thirteenth century, and the action
closely follows the historical narrative. The disaffection which has arisen among the Swiss,
owing to the tyranny of Gessler, suddenly comes to a climax when one of Gessler's followers
attempts an outrage upon the only daughter of the herdsman Leutold, and meets his death at
the hands of the indignant father. Leutold seeks protection at the hands of Tell, who, in the
face of the herdsman's pursuers, succeeds in placing him beyond the reach of danger, and this
circumstance arouses the wrath of Gessler. Melchtal, the village patriarch, is accused by him
of inciting the people to insubordination, and is put to death. Meanwhile Arnold, his son,
is enamoured of Mathilde, Gessler's daughter, and hesitates between love and duty when he is
called upon to avenge his father's death. At last duty prevails, and he joins his comrades
when the men of the three cantons, who are loyal to Tell, meet and swear death to the tyrant.
In the last act occurs the famous archery scene. To discover the leading offenders Gessler
erects a pole in the square of Altorf, upon which he places his hat and commands the people
to do homage to it. Tell refuses, and as a punishment is ordered to shoot an apple from his
son's head. He successfully accomplishes the feat, but as he is about to retire Gessler observes
a second arrow concealed in his garments, and inquires the reason for it, when Tell boldly
replies it was intended for him in case the first had killed his son. Gessler throws him into
prison, whereupon Mathilde abandons her father and determines to help in the rescue of Tell
and his son. Her lover, Arnold, meanwhile, raises a band of brave followers and accomplishes
the rescue himself. After slaying the tyrant and freeing his country Tell returns to his family,
and Arnold and Mathilde are united.

The overture to "William Tell," with its Alpine repose, its great storm-picture, the stirring
"Ranz des Vaches," and the trumpet-call to freedom, is one of the most perfect and beautiful
ever written, and is so familiar that it does not need analysis. The first act opens with a
delightfully fresh Alpine chorus ("E il ciel sereno"), which is followed by a pastoral quartet
between a fisherman, Tell, Hedwig, and Jemmy. Arnold enters, and a long duet, one of Rossini's
finest inspirations, follows between Arnold and Tell. The duet is interrupted by the entrance
of several of the peasants escorting two brides and bridegrooms, which is the signal for a
most graceful chorus and dance ("Cinto il crine"). Leutold then appears, seeking Tell's protection,
and a very dramatic finale begins, closing with the arrest of Melchtal, which leads to an ensemble
of great power.

The second act opens with a double chorus of huntsmen and shepherds ("Qual silvestre metro
intorne"), which is followed by a scena preluding a charming romanza ("Selva opaco") sung by
Mathilde. Its mild, quiet beauty is in strange contrast with the remainder of this great act.
It is followed by a passionate duet with Arnold, a second and still more passionate duet between
Tell and Walter, which leads to the magnificent trio of the oath ("La gloria inflammi"), and
this in turn is followed by the splendid scene of the gathering of the cantons. For melodic
and harmonic beauty combined, the spirited treatment of masses, and charm and variety of color,
this great scene stands almost alone.

The last act opens with a duet between Mathilde and Arnold, which is followed in the next scene
by a march and chorus as the multitude gathers in the square of Altorf, closing with a lovely
Tyrolean chorus sung by the sopranos and accompanied with the dance. The dramatic scene of
the archery follows, and then Arnold has a very passionate aria ("O muto asil"). Some very
vivid storm-music preluding the last scene, and the final hymn of freedom ("I boschi, i monti")
close an opera which is unquestionably Rossini's masterpiece, and in which his musical ability
reached its highest expression. "Manly, earnest, and mighty," Hanslick calls it; and the same
authority claims that the first and second acts belong to the most beautiful achievements of
the modern opera. From 1846 to 1848 he taught music in Pressburg and Vienna, and then went
back to Russia.

NERO.

The opera of "Nero," the libretto by Jules Barbier, was first produced in Hamburg in 1879,--though
it was originally intended for the French stage,--and in this country, March 14, 1887, at New
York, by the American Opera Company, under the direction of Mr. Theodore Thomas, with the following
cast:--

  NERO                Mr. CANDIDUS.
  JULIUS VINDEX       Mr. LUDWIG.
  TIGELLINUS          Mr. STODDARD.
  BALBILLUS           Mr. WHITNEY.
  SACCUS              Mr. FESSENDEN.
  SEVIRUS             Mr. HAMILTON.
  TERPANDER           Mr. LEE.
  POPPOEA SABINA      Miss BERTHA PIERSON.
  EPICHARIS           Miss CORNELIA VAN ZANTEN.
  CHRYSA              Miss EMMA JUCH.
  AGRIPPINA           Miss AGNES STERLING.
  LUPUS               Miss PAULINE L'ALLEMAND.

The first act opens in the house of Epicharis, a courtesan, which is a rendezvous for the dissolute
Roman nobles. The guests assembled sing a chorus in praise of the establishment, followed by
a scene in which Vindex, the prince of Aquitania, Saccus the poet, Terpander the citharist,
and others conspire against Nero. Suddenly Chrysa, daughter of Epicharis, who is ignorant of
her mother's real character and dwells apart from her, rushes in and implores the protection
of Vindex from a crowd of revellers who have pursued her. A very spirited duet follows in which
the prince promises her his assistance. Upon hearing the shouts of her pursuers he conceals
her just in time to escape the masked band, headed by Nero himself, which bursts into the apartment.
The tyrant demands the girl; and as he throws off his mask the guests stand amazed. Saccus
at last breaks the spell by the suggestion that Nero shall marry the girl. When she is led
out, and Vindex discovers that Epicharis is her mother, he no longer espouses her cause. Then
follows the music of the mock marriage, interspersed with dance strains and sardonic choruses
by the courtesans and their associates, at last rising to a wild bacchanalian frenzy, in the
midst of which Vindex breaks out in a spirited song, with harp accompaniment, and finally hurls
invectives at Nero, as Chrysa, who has drunk a narcotic at her mother's order, falls senseless.
The latter declares she has been poisoned, and the act closes with a scene of great power in
which Vindex is hurried away as Nero's prisoner.

The second act opens in the dwelling of Poppoea, Nero's mistress, whose attendants are trying
to console her. She has heard of Nero's new infatuation; but her apprehensions are relieved
when Balbillus, the astrologer, enters and not only announces that Chrysa is dead, but tells
the equally grateful news that Octavia, Nero's wife, has been condemned to die. Nero himself
now appears upon the scene, and a duet follows in which Poppoea reproaches him for his fickleness
and he seeks to console her with flattery. At its close the death of Octavia is announced,
and Poppoea is appeased by the prospect of sharing the throne. Meanwhile Chrysa has fallen
into the custody of Agrippina, Nero's mother, who keeps close charge of her to further her
own ambitions. During the interview between the tyrant and his mistress, Epicharis rushes in
and implores Nero to give up Chrysa, which leads to a powerful ensemble. Learning that Chrysa
is still alive he leaves the apartment to find her. The second scene is brilliantly spectacular.
Nero and his mother appear in front of the temple, followed by a long procession to the music
of a brilliant march. They enter the temple. After a short episode, in which Poppoea informs
Epicharis of the refuge Chrysa has found, the ballet is given in the open square, with its
fascinating dances of warriors, bacchantes, jugglers and buffoons, and their mimic combats,
the music of which is very familiar from its frequent performance in our concert-rooms. Nero
then appears and announces his divinity in a finale, which is rich with scenic, spectacular,
and choral effects, accompanied by full military band and orchestra.

The third act opens in Chrysa's new asylum of refuge. The persecuted girl sings a beautiful
prayer, at the close of which Vindex joins her in a love-duet, which will always remain as
one of the most refined and noble products of Rubinstein's skill in harmony. The next number
is one of almost equal beauty,--a duet for Chrysa and Epicharis, the motive of which is a cradle
song. Its soothing tones are interrupted by the appearance of Nero, followed by Poppoea and
Saccus, the last-named announcing to the tyrant that Rome is in flames, which leads up to a
vigorous trio. The concluding scene is full of characteristic music. It shows us Nero watching
the fire from his tower, while he sings a hymn ("O Ilion") to the accompaniment of his lyre;
the death of Chrysa, who proclaims herself a Christian and is killed by the infuriated populace;
and the fate of Epicharis, who is crushed beneath a falling house as she mourns for her daughter.

The fourth act furnishes a dramatic denouement to the mournful story. The tyrant, wild with
rage and frenzy, appears in the tomb of Augustus, where the shades of his murdered victims
terrify him. Saccus enters and tells him of the revolt of his army and the danger which threatens
him. He rushes out again and kills himself on the highway of the Campagna, just as Vindex at
the head of his legions comes up with him. As he expires a cross appears in the sky and a chant
is heard, herald of the coming Christianity.

THOMAS.

Charles Ambroise Thomas was born at Metz, Aug. 5, 1811, and entered the Paris Conservatory
in 1828, where he carried off the Grand Prize in 1832, which entitled him to go to Italy. During
his Italian residence he wrote a cantata, "Hermann und Ketty," and several instrumental works.
His first work at the Opera Comique was the one-act opera, "La double echelle," produced in
1837 with success. He then brought out several ballets at the Académie, but returned to the
Opera Comique again, where, between 1840 and 1866, he composed thirteen operas, the most successful
of which were "Le Songe d'une nuit d'été" (1850), "Raymond" (1851), "Psyche" (1857), and "Mignon"
(1866). During this period he also wrote a large number of cantatas, choruses, part-songs,
and instrumental works. His next great work was "Hamlet," first produced March 9, 1868, the
success of which gained him the position of Director of the Conservatory in 1871. Since that
time he has written only the opera "Françoise de Rimini," performed April 14, 1882. In 1880
he was made a member of the Legion of Honor. In common with Gounod he now shares the honor
of being one of the few French writers who hold a high rank among modern composers.

MIGNON

"Mignon," an opera comique in three acts, words by Barbier and Carré, the subject taken from
Goethe's "Wilhelm Meister," was first produced at the Opera Comique, Paris, Nov. 17, 1866,
with the following cast:--

  MIGNON             Mme. GALLI-MARIÉ.
  WILHELM MEISTER    M. ACHARD.
  LAERTES            M. CONDERS.
  LOTARIO            M. BATAILLE.
  FILINA             Mme. CABEL.

The scene of the first two acts is laid in Germany, and of the third in Italy. Mignon, the
heroine, in her childhood was stolen by gypsies. She is of noble birth. The mother died shortly
after her bereavement, and the father, disguised as the harper Lotario, has wandered for years
in quest of his daughter. The opera opens in the yard of a German inn, where a troupe of actors,
among them Filina and Laertes, are resting, on their way to the castle of a neighboring prince,
where they are to give a performance.

A strolling gypsy band arrives about the same time, and stops to give an entertainment to the
guests. Mignon, who is with the band, is ordered to perform the egg dance, but, worn out with
fatigue and abusive treatment, refuses. Giarno, the leader, rushes at her, but the old harper
interposes in her behalf. Giarno then turns upon Lotario, when the wandering student, Wilhelm
Meister, suddenly appears and rescues both Mignon and the harper. To save her from any further
persecution he engages her as his page, and follows on in the suite of Filina, for whom he
conceives a violent and sudden passion. Touched by his kind attentions to her, Mignon falls
in love with Wilhelm, who, ignorant of his page's affection, becomes more and more a prey to
the fascinations of Filina. At last the troupe arrives at the castle, Wilhelm and Mignon with
them. Wilhelm enters with the others, leaving Mignon to await him outside. Maddened with jealousy,
she attempts to throw herself into a lake near by, but is restrained by the notes of Lotario's
harp. She rushes to him for counsel and protection, and in her despair invokes vengeance upon
all in the castle. As the entertainment closes, Filina and her troupe emerge, joyful over their
great success. She sends Mignon back for some flowers she has left, when suddenly flames appear
in the windows. Maddened by his own grief and Mignon's troubles Lotario has fired the castle.
Wilhelm rushes into the burning building and brings out the unconscious Mignon in his arms.

The last act opens in Lotario's home in Italy, whither Mignon has been taken, followed by Wilhelm,
who has discovered her devoted attachment to him, and has freed himself from the fascinations
of Filina. Through the medium of a long-concealed casket containing a girdle which Mignon had
worn in her childhood, also by a prayer which she repeats, and the picture of her mother, Lotario
is at last convinced that she is his daughter, and gives his blessing to her union with Wilhelm.

The overture recites the leading motives of the work. The first act opens with a fresh and
melodious chorus of the townspeople over their beer in the inn yard ("Su borghesi e magnati").
During their singing a characteristic march is heard, and the gypsy band enters. The scene
is a charming one, the little ballet being made still more picturesque by the fresh chorus
and a song of Filina's in waltz time. The scene of the encounter with Giarno and Mignon's rescue
follows, and leads up to a very spirited quintet, which is followed by a graceful trio between
Wilhelm, Filina, and Laertes, the actor. In the next scene Wilhelm questions Mignon as to her
history, and at the end of their pathetic duet, when he says, "Were I to break thy chains and
set thee free, to what beloved spot wouldst thou take thy way?" she replies in the beautiful
romanza, "Non conosci il bel suol," more familiarly known in Goethe's own words, "Kennst du
das Land,"--a song full of tender beauty and rare expression, and one of the most delightful
inspirations of any composer. It is said that much of its charm comes from the composer's study
of Ary Scheffer's picture of Mignon. Be this as it may, he has caught the inner sense of the
poem, and expressed it in exquisite tones. It is followed almost immediately by a duet between
Mignon and Lotario ("Leggiadre rondinelle") of almost equal beauty, known as the Swallow duet.
After a somewhat uninteresting scene between Laertes, Filina, and Frederick, who is also in
love with Filina, the finale begins with the departure of the actors to fulfil their engagement,
in which Filina, in a graceful aria ("Grazie al gentil signor"), invites Wilhelm to be of the
number.

The second act opens in Filina's boudoir, where she is at her toilet, arraying herself for
her part as Titania in the forthcoming performance of the "Midsummer Night's Dream" at the
castle. As Wilhelm and Mignon enter the apartment, a very dramatic conversation ensues between
them in the form of a terzetto ("Ohimè quell' acre riso"). Mignon is in despair at the attention
Wilhelm pays Filina, and the latter adds to her pangs by singing with him a gay coquettish
aria ("Gai complimenti"). As they leave the room Mignon goes to the mirror and begins adorning
herself as Filina had done, hoping thereby to attract Wilhelm, singing meanwhile a characteristic
song ("Conosco un zingarello") with a peculiar refrain, which the composer himself calls the
"Styrienne." It is one of the most popular numbers in the opera, and when first sung in Paris
made a furor. At the end of the scene Mignon goes into a cabinet to procure one of Filina's
dresses, and the lovelorn Frederick enters and sings his only number in the opera, a bewitching
rondo gavotte ("Filina nelle sale"). Wilhelm enters, and a quarrel between the jealous pair
is prevented by the sudden appearance of Mignon in Filina's finery. She rushes between them,
Frederick makes his exit in a fume, and Wilhelm announces to Mignon his intention to leave
her, in the aria, "Addio, Mignon, fa core," one of the most pathetic songs in the modern opera.
In the next scene she tears off her finery and rushes out expressing her hatred of Filina.
The scene now changes to the park surrounding the castle where the entertainment is going on.
Mignon hears the laughter and clapping of hands, and overcome with despair attempts to throw
herself into the lake, but is restrained by Lotario, and a beautiful duet ensues between them
("Sofferto hai tu?"). In the next scene Filina, the actors, and their train of followers emerge
from the castle, and in the midst of their joy she sings the polacca, "Ah! per stassera," which
is a perfect feu de joie of sparkling music, closing with a brilliant cadenza. The finale,
which is very dramatic, describes the burning of the castle and the rescue of Mignon.

The last act is more dramatic than musical, though it contains a few delightful numbers, among
them the chorus barcarole in the first scene, "Orsu, sciogliam le vela," a song by Wilhelm
("Ah! non credea"), and the love duet, "Ah! son felice," between Wilhelm and Mignon, in which
is heard again the cadenza of Filina's polacca. "Mignon" has always been a success, and will
unquestionably always keep its place on the stage,--longer even than the composer's more ambitious
works, "Hamlet" and "Françoise de Rimini," by virtue of its picturesqueness and poetic grace,
as well as by the freshness, warmth, and richness of its melodies. In this country opera-goers
will long remember "Mignon" by the great successes made by Miss Kellogg as Filina, and by Mme.
Lucca and Mme. Nilsson in the title-rôle.

VERDI.

Giuseppi Verdi was born at Roncale, Italy, Oct. 9, 1813. He displayed his musical talent at
a very early age; indeed, in his tenth year he was appointed organist in his native town. He
then studied for a time at Busseto, and afterwards, by the help of a patron, M. Barezzi, went
to Milan. Curiously enough he was refused a scholarship on the ground that he displayed no
aptitude for music. Nothing daunted, he studied privately with the composer Lavigne, and five
years afterwards commenced his career as an operatic writer. His first opera, "Oberto," was
given at La Scala, Milan, with indifferent success. He was not fairly recognized until his
opera "I Lombardi" was performed. In 1844 "Ernani" was received with great enthusiasm. "Attila"
(1846) was his next great triumph; and then followed in rapid succession a large number of
operas, among them: "I Masnadieri" (1847), written for the English stage, with Jenny Lind,
Lablache, and Gardoni in the cast; "Luisa Miller" (1849); "Stifellio" (1851); "Rigoletto" (1851);
"Il Trovatore," Rome (1853); "La Traviata," Venice (1853); "I Vespri Siciliani," Paris (1855);
"Simon Boccanegra," Venice (1857); "Un Ballo in Maschera," Rome (1858); "La Forza del Destino,"
St. Petersburg (1862); "Don Carlos," Paris (1867), and "Aida," his last opera, Cairo (1871).
Since that time Verdi has produced nothing but a Pater Noster and an Ave Maria (1880), and
the "Requiem," composed in memory of the patriot Manzoni, and produced at Milan in 1874, on
the occasion of the anniversary of his death. It has been reported that he is at work upon
a new opera, "Othello," the words by Arrigo Boito, the composer of "Mephistopheles;" but nothing
more than the report has been heard from it during the past three or four years. The great
melodist now spends a very quiet life as a country gentleman upon his estates near Busseto.

ERNANI.

"Ernani," a tragic opera in four acts, words by F.M. Piave, the subject taken from Victor Hugo's
tragedy of "Hernani," was first produced at Venice, March 9, 1844. The earlier performances
of the opera gave the composer much trouble. Before the first production the police interfered,
refusing to allow the representation of a conspiracy on the stage, so that many parts of the
libretto, as well as much of the music, had to be changed. The blowing of Don Silva's horn
in the last act was also objected to by one Count Mocenigo, upon the singular ground that it
was disgraceful. The Count, however, was silenced more easily than the police. The chorus "Si
ridesti il Leon di Castiglia" also aroused a political manifestation by the Venetians. The
opera was given in Paris, Jan. 6, 1846, and there it encountered the hostility of Victor Hugo,
who demanded that the libretto should be changed. To accommodate the irate poet, the words
were altered, the characters were changed to Italians, and the new title of "II Proscritto"
was given to the work.

The action of the opera takes place in Arragon, Spain, and the period is 1519. Elvira, a noble
Spanish lady, betrothed to the grandee Don Gomez de Silva, is in love with the bandit Ernani,
who forms a plan to carry her off. While receiving the congratulations of her friends upon
her approaching marriage with Silva, Don Carlos, the King of Spain, enters her apartment, declares
his passion for her, and tries to force her from the castle. She cries for help, and Ernani
comes to her rescue and defies the king. The situation is still further complicated by the
sudden arrival of Silva, who declares he will avenge the insult. Finding, however, that it
is the King whom he has challenged, he sues for pardon. In the second act, as the nuptials
are about to be solemnized, Ernani enters, disguised as a pilgrim, and believing Elvira false
to him, throws off his disguise and demands to be given up to the King, which Silva refuses,
as he cannot betray a guest. Discovering, however, that Elvira and Ernani are attached to each
other, he determines on vengeance. The King eventually carries off Elvira as a hostage of the
faith of Silva, whereupon the latter challenges Ernani. The bandit refuses to fight with him,
informs him that the King is also his rival, and asks to share in his vengeance, promising
in turn to give up his life when Silva calls for it, and presenting him with a horn which he
is to sound whenever he wishes to have the promise kept. In the third act, the King, aware
that the conspirators are to meet in the catacombs of Aquisgrana, conceals himself there, and
when the assassins meet to decide who shall kill him, he suddenly appears among them and condemns
the nobles to be sent to the block. Ernani, who is a duke, under the ban of the King of Castile,
demands the right to join them, but the King magnanimously pardons the conspirators and consents
to the union of Ernani and Elvira. Upon the very eve of their happiness, and in the midst of
their festivities, the fatal horn is heard, and true to his promise Ernani parts from Elvira
and kills himself.

The first act opens with a spirited chorus of banditti and mountaineers ("Allegri, beviami")
as they are drinking and gambling in their mountain retreat. Ernani appears upon a neighboring
height and announces himself in a despondent aria ("Come rugiada al cespite"). A brief snatch
of chorus intervenes, when he breaks out in a second and more passionate strain ("Dell' esilio
nel dolore"), in which he sings of his love for Elvira. The third scene opens in Elvira's apartments,
and is introduced with one of the most beautiful of Verdi's arias, "Ernani, involami," with
which all concert-goers have become acquainted by its frequent repetition. A graceful chorus
of her ladies bearing gifts leads to a second and more florid number ("Tutto sprezzo che d'
Ernani"). Don Carlos enters, and in the seventh scene has an aria ("Bella come un primo amore")
in which he declares his passion for Elvira, leading up to a very dramatic duet between them
("Fiero sangue d' Aragona"). This is followed in turn by a trio between the two and Ernani.
The finale commences with an impressive and sonorous bass solo ("Infelice! e tuo credevi")
by Silva, and closes with a septet and chorus of great power.

The second act, like the first, opens with a chorus, this time, however, of mixed voices, the
power of which is amplified by a military band on the stage. After three scenes of dramatic
dialogue, an impassioned duet ("Ah! morir potessi adesso!") occurs between Ernani and Elvira,
followed by a second, of great dramatic intensity, in the seventh scene ("La vendetta piu tremenda").
The finale begins with a spirited appeal by Silva and Ernani for vengeance against the King
("In arcione, cavalieri") which is met by a stirring response from their followers ("Pronti
vedi li tuoi cavalieri"), sung by full male chorus and closing the act.

The third act is devoted to the conspiracy, and in the second scene Don Carlos has a very impressive
and at times thrilling soliloquy ("Gran Dio! costo sui sepolcrali marmi"). The conspiracy then
begins with very characteristic accompaniments, closing with the chorus in full harmony ("Si
ridesti il Leon di Castiglia"), which at the performance of the work in Venice roused such
a fury among the Venetians. The finale commences with the appearance of Don Carlos among the
conspirators, and closes with the great sextet and chorus, "O Sommo Carlo." Opening with a
barytone solo, it is gradually worked up in a crescendo of great power and thrilling effect.
The number is very familiar from its English setting under the title, "Crowned with the Tempest."

The fourth act rapidly hurries to the tragic close, and is less interesting from a musical
point of view, as the climax was reached in the finale of the third. The principal numbers
are the chorus of masks in the first scene ("O come felici"), accompanied by military band,
and the great duet between Elvira and Ernani ("Cessaro i suoni"), which passes from rapturous
ecstasy to the despair of fate ("Per noi d' amore il talamo") as the horn of Silva is heard,
reminding Ernani of his promise. Though one of the earliest of Verdi's works, "Ernani" is one
of his strongest in dramatic intensity, in the brilliancy and power of its concerted finales,
and in the beauty of its great chorus effects.

RIGOLETTO. The part of Gilda has always been a favorite one with great artists, among whom
Nantier-Didiée, Bosio, and Miolan-Carvalho played the rôle with extraordinary success. In the
London season of 1860 Mario and Ronconi in the respective parts of the Duke and Rigoletto,
it is said, gave dramatic portraitures which were among the most consummate achievements of
the lyric stage. The records of its first production, like those of "Ernani," are of unusual
interest. Verdi himself suggested Victor Hugo's tragedy to Piave for a libretto, and he soon
prepared one, changing the original title, however, to "La Maledizione." Warned by the political
events of 1848, the police flatly refused to allow the representation of a king on the stage
in such situations as those given to Francis I. in the original tragedy. The composer and the
manager of the theatre begged in vain that the libretto should be accepted, but the authorities
were obstinate. At last a way was found out of the difficulty by the chief of police himself,
who was a great lover of art. He suggested to the librettist that the King should be changed
to a duke of Mantua, and the title of the work to "Rigoletto," the name of the buffoon who
figures in the place of the original Triboulet. Verdi accepted the alterations, and had an
opera ready in forty days which by nearly all critics is considered his musical masterpiece,
notwithstanding the revolting character of the story.

The scene of the opera is laid in Mantua. Rigoletto, the privileged buffoon of the Duke, who
also plays the part of pander in all his licentious schemes, among numerous other misdeeds
has assisted his master in the seduction of the wife of Count Ceprano and the daughter of Count
Monterone. The latter appears before the Duke and Rigoletto, and demands reparation for the
dishonor put upon his house, only to find himself arrested by order of the Duke, and taunted
in the most insolent manner by the buffoon, upon whom he invokes the vengeance of Heaven. Even
the courtiers themselves are enraged at Rigoletto's taunts, and determine to assist in Monterone's
revenge by stealing Gilda, the jester's daughter, whom they suppose to be his mistress. Closely
as she had been concealed, she had not escaped the observation of the Duke, who in the guise
of a poor student wins her affections and discovers her dwelling-place. Pretending that it
is Count Ceprano's wife whom they are about to abduct, they even make Rigoletto assist in the
plot and help convey his own daughter to the Duke's apartments. In his blind fury when he discovers
the trick that has been played upon him, he hires Sparafucile, a professional assassin, to
kill the Duke. The bravo allures the Duke to his house, intending to carry out his agreement;
but his sister, Magdalena, is so fascinated with the handsome stranger, that she determines
to save him. Sparafucile at first will not listen to her, but finally promises if any one else
comes to the house before the time agreed upon for the murder he shall be the victim. Rigoletto
meanwhile disguises his daughter in male attire in order that she may escape to Verona; but
before she sets out he takes her to the vicinity of Sparafucile's house, that she may witness
the perfidy of the Duke. While outside, she overhears the quarrel between Sparafucile and Magdalena,
and learns his intention to murder the Duke, who is even then sleeping in the house. With a
woman's devotion she springs forward to save the Duke's life, knocks at the door, and demands
admittance. Sparafucile opens it, and as she enters stabs her. He then thrusts her body into
a sack, and delivers it to her father as the body of the man whom he had agreed to slay. Rigoletto,
gloating over his revenge, is about to throw the sack into the river near by, when he suddenly
hears the voice of the Duke. He tears open the sack to see whose body it contains, and by the
glare of the lightning is horrified to find that it is his own daughter, and realizes that
the malediction of Monterone has been accomplished. She expires in his arms, blessing her lover
and father, while he sinks to the ground overwhelmed with the fulfilment of the terrible curse.

The first act opens in the ball-room of the ducal palace. After a brief dialogue between the
Duke and one of his courtiers, the former vaunts his own fickleness in one of the most graceful
and charming arias in the whole opera ("Questa o quella"). Some spirited dramatic scenes follow,
which introduce the malediction of Monterone and the compact between Rigoletto and Sparafucile,
and lead up to a scena of great power ("Io la lingua, egli ha il pugnali"), in which the buffoon
vents his furious rage against the courtiers. A tender duet between Rigoletto and Gilda follows,
and a second duet in the next scene between Gilda and the Duke ("Addio, speranza ed anima"),
which for natural grace, passionate intensity, and fervid expression is one of Verdi's finest
numbers. As the Duke leaves, Gilda, following him with her eyes, breaks out in the passionate
love-song, "Caro nome," which is not alone remarkable for its delicacy and richness of melody,
but also for the brilliancy of its bravura, calling for rare range and flexibility of voice.
The act closes with the abduction, and gives an opportunity for a delightful male chorus ("Zitti,
zitti") sung pianissimo.

The second act also opens in the palace, with an aria by the Duke ("Parmi veder le lagrime"),
in which he laments the loss of Gilda. Another fine chorus ("Scorrendo uniti remota via") follows,
from which he learns that Gilda is already in the palace. In the fourth scene Rigoletto has
another grand scena ("Cortigiani vil razza dannata"), which is intensely dramatic, expressing
in its musical alternations the whole gamut of emotions, from the fury of despair to the most
exquisite tenderness of appeal as he pleads with the courtiers to tell him where his daughter
is. In the next scene he discovers her, and the act closes with a duet between them ("Tutte
le feste al tempio"), which, after a strain of most impassioned tenderness, is interrupted
by the passage of the guards conveying Monterone to prison, and then closes with a furious
outburst of passion from Rigoletto. With the exception of two numbers, the last act depends
for its effect upon the dramatic situations and the great power of the terrible denouement;
but these two numbers are among the finest Verdi has ever given to the world. The first is
the tenor solo sung in Sparafucile's house in the second scene by the Duke,--"La donna e mobile,"
an aria of extreme elegance and graceful abandon, which is heard again in the last scene, its
lightly tripping measures contrasting strangely with the savage glee of Rigoletto, so soon
to change to wails of despair as he realizes the full force of the malediction. The second
is the great quartet in the third scene between the Duke, Gilda, Magdalena, and Rigoletto ("Bella
figlia dell' amore"), which stands out as an inspiration in comparison with the rest of the
opera, fine as its music is. The story itself is almost too repulsive for stage representation;
but in beauty, freshness, originality, and dramatic expression the music of "Rigoletto" is
Verdi's best; and in all this music the quartet is the masterpiece.

LA TRAVIATA.

"La Traviata," an opera in three acts, words by Piave, is founded upon Dumas's "Dame aux Camelias,"
familiar to the English stage as "Camille." The original play is supposed to represent phases
of modern French life; but the Italian libretto changes the period to the year 1700, in the
days of Louis XIV.; and there are also some material changes of characters,--Marguerite Gauthier
of the original appearing as Violetta Valery, and Olympia as Flora Belvoix, at whose house
the ball scene takes place. The opera was first produced at Venice, March 6, 1853, with the
following cast of the principal parts:--

  VIOLETTA      Mme. DONATELLI.
  ALFREDO       M. GRAZIANI.
  GERMONT       M. VARESI.

The opera at its first production was a complete failure, though this was due more to the singers
than to the music. It is said that when the doctor announced in the third act that Mme. Donatelli,
who impersonated the consumptive heroine, and who was one of the stoutest ladies ever seen
on the stage, had but a few days to live, the whole audience broke out into roars of laughter.
Time has brought its consolations to the composer, however, for "Traviata" is now one of the
most popular operas in the modern repertory. When it was first produced in Paris, Oct. 27,
1864, Christine Nilsson made her début in it. In London, the charming little singer Mme. Piccolomini
made her début in the same opera, May 24, 1856. Adelina Patti, since that time, has not only
made Violetta the strongest character in her repertory, but is without question the most finished
representative of the fragile heroine the stage has seen.

The story as told by the librettist simply resolves itself into three principal scenes,--the
supper at Violetta's house, where she makes the acquaintance of Alfred, and the rupture between
them occasioned by the arrival of Alfred's father; the ball at the house of Flora; and the
death scene and reconciliation, linked together by recitative, so that the dramatic unity of
the original is lost to a certain extent. The first act opens with a gay party in Violetta's
house. Among the crowd about her is Alfred Germont, a young man from Provence, who is passionately
in love with her. The sincerity of his passion finally influences her to turn aside from her
life of voluptuous pleasure and to cherish a similar sentiment for him. In the next act we
find her living in seclusion with her lover in a country-house in the environs of Paris, to
support which she has sold her property in the city. When Alfred discovers this he refuses
to be the recipient of her bounty, and sets out for Paris to recover the property. During his
absence his father, who has discovered his retreat, visits Violetta, and pleads with her to
forsake Alfred, not only on his own account, but to save his family from disgrace. Touched
by the father's grief, she consents, and secretly returns to Paris, where she once more resumes
her old life. At a ball given by Flora Belvoix, one of Violetta's associates, Alfred meets
her again, overwhelms her with reproaches, and insults her by flinging her miniature at her
feet in presence of the whole company. Stung by her degradation, Violetta goes home to die,
and too late Alfred learns the real sacrifice she has made. He hastens to comfort her, but
she dies forgiving and blessing him.

After a short prelude the first act opens with a vivacious chorus of the guests at Violetta's
supper, leading to a drinking-song ("Libiamo, libiamo") in waltz time, sung first by Alfred
and then by Violetta, the chorus echoing each couplet with very pretty effect. After a long
dialogue between the two, closing with chorus, Violetta has a grand scena which is always a
favorite show-piece with concert artists. It begins with an andante movement ("Ah! fors e lui"),
expressive of the suddenly awakened love which she feels for Alfred, with a refrain of half
a dozen measures in the finale which might be called the Violetta motive, and then suddenly
develops into a brisk and sparkling allegro ("Sempre libera") full of the most florid and brilliant
ornamentation, in which she again resolves to shut out every feeling of love and plunge into
the whirl of dissipation. This number, unlike most of Verdi's finales which are concerted,
closes the act.

The second act opens in the country-house with an effective tenor aria ("De' miei bollenti")
sung by Alfred. In the next scene Germont enters, and after a brief dialogue with Violetta
sings a short cantabile ("Pura siccome un angelo"), leading to a duet ("Dite alia giovine")
with Violetta which is full of tenderness. In the interview which immediately follows between
Germont and Alfred, the father appeals to his son with memories of home in an andante ("Di
Provenza il mar") which in form and simplicity and simple pathos of expression might almost
be called a ballad. It is always a favorite, and is usually considered the best number in the
opera, notwithstanding its simple melody. The next scene changes to the ball-room of Flora,
and is introduced with a peculiar chorus effect. A masked chorus of gypsies, accompanying their
measures with tambourines, is followed by a second chorus of matadors, also in mask, who accent
the time with the pikes they carry, the double number ending with a gay bolero. The act closes
with a long duet between Violetta and Alfred, developing in the finale, by the entrance of
Germont, to a very strong and dramatic trio.

The third act opens in Violetta's chamber with a reminiscence of the introduction. As she contemplates
her changed appearance in the mirror, she bids a sad farewell to her dreams of happiness in
the aria, "Addio! del passato," in harsh contrast with which is heard a bacchanalian chorus
behind the scenes ("Largo al quadrupede"). In the next scene occurs the passionate duet with
Alfred, "Parigi, o cara," which is a close copy of the final duet in "Trovatore" between Manrico
and Azucena. It is followed by the aria, "Ah! gran Dio," for Violetta, which leads to the concluding
quintet and death scene.

IL TROVATORE.

"II Trovatore," an opera in four acts, words by Cammarano, was first produced in Rome, Jan.
19, 1853. In 1857 it was brought out in Paris as "Le Trouvere," and in London, 1856, in English,
as "The Gypsy's Vengeance." It was produced in Rome in the same year with "La Traviata," but
unlike the latter, it was greeted at once with an enthusiastic welcome; and it has held the
stage ever since as one of the most popular operas in the modern repertory. In this regard,
indeed, it shares with "Martha" and "Faust" the highest place in popular admiration.

The opera opens with a midnight scene at the palace of Aliaferia, where the old servitor, Ferrando,
relates to his associates the story of the fate of Garzia, brother of the Count di Luna, in
whose service they are employed. While in their cradles, Garzia was bewitched by an old gypsy,
and day by day pined away. The gypsy was burned at the stake for sorcery; and in revenge Azucena,
her daughter, stole the sickly child. At the opening of the opera his fate has not been discovered.

As the servitor closes his narrative and he and his companions depart, the Count di Luna enters
and lingers by the apartment of the Duchess Leonora, with whom he is in love. Hearing his voice,
Leonora comes into the garden, supposing it is Manrico the troubadour, whom she had crowned
victor at a recent tournament, and of whom she had become violently enamoured. As she greets
the Count, Manrico appears upon the scene and charges her with infidelity. Recognizing her
error, she flies to Manrico for protection. The Count challenges him to combat, and as they
prepare to fight she falls to the ground insensible.

In the second act we are introduced to a gypsy camp, where Azucena relates to Manrico, who
has been wounded in the duel with the Count, the same story which Ferrando had told his friends,
with the addition that when she saw her mother burning she caught up the Count's child, intending
to throw it into the flames, but by a mistake sacrificed her own infant. As the story concludes,
a messenger arrives, summoning Manrico to the defence of the castle of Castellar, and at the
same time informing him that Leonora, supposing him dead, has gone to a convent. He arrives
at the convent in time to rescue her before she takes her vows, and bears her to Castellar,
which is at once besieged by the Count's forces.

The third act opens in the camp of the Count, where Azucena, arrested as a spy, is dragged
in. She calls upon Manrico for help. The mention of his rival's name only adds fuel to the
Count's wrath, and he orders the gypsy to be burned in sight of the castle. Ferrando has already
recognized her as the supposed murderer of the Count's brother, and her filial call to Manrico
also reveals to him that she is his mother. He makes a desperate effort to rescue her, but
is defeated, taken prisoner, and thrown into a dungeon with Azucena. Leonora vainly appeals
to the Count to spare Manrico, and at last offers him her hand if he will save his life. He
consents, and Leonora hastens to the prison to convey the tidings, having previously taken
poison, preferring to die rather than fulfil her hateful compact. Manrico refuses his liberty,
and as Leonora falls in a dying condition the Count enters and orders Manrico to be put to
death at once. He is dragged away to execution, but as the Count triumphantly forces Azucena
to a window and shows her the tragic scene, she reveals her secret, and informing the horror-stricken
Count that he has murdered his own brother, falls lifeless to the ground.

The first act opens with a ballad in mazurka time ("Abbietta Zingara"), in which Ferrando relates
the story of the gypsy, leading up to a scena for Leonora, which is treated in Verdi's favorite
style. It begins with an andante ("Tacea la notte placida"), a brief dialogue with her attendant
Inez intervening, and then develops into an allegro ("Di tale amor") which is a brilliant bit
of bravura. A brief snatch of fascinating melody behind the scenes ("Deserto sulla terra")
introduces Manrico, and the act closes with a trio ("Di geloso amor sprezzato"), which as an
expression of combined grief, fear, and hate, is one of the most dramatic and intense of all
Verdi's finales.

The second act opens with the Anvil chorus in the camp of the gypsies ("La Zingarella"), the
measures accented with hammers upon the anvils. This number is so familiar that it does not
need further reference. As its strains die away in the distance, Azucena breaks out into an
aria of intense energy, with very expressive accompaniment ("Stride le vampa"), in which she
tells the fearful story of the burning of her mother. A very dramatic dialogue with Manrico
ensues, closing with a spirited aria for tenor ("Mai reggendo") and duet ("Sino all' elsa").
The scene is interrupted by the notes of a horn announcing the arrival of a messenger. The
second scene is introduced by a flowing, broad, and beautifully sustained aria for the Count
("Il balen del suo"), and, like Leonora's numbers in the garden scene, again develops from
a slow movement to a rapid and spirited march tempo ("Per me ora fatale"), the act closing
with a powerful concerted effect of quartet and chorus.

The third act is introduced with a very free and animated soldiers' chorus. Azucena is dragged
in and sings a plaintive lament for Manrico ("Giorni poveri"). Two duets follow, between Azucena
and the Count, and Manrico and Leonora,--the second worked up with beautiful effect by the
blending of the organ in the convent chapel. The act closes with the spirited aria, "Di quella
pira," for Manrico,--a number which has always been the delight of great dramatic tenors, not
alone for its fine melody, but for its opportunity of showing the voice and using the exceptional
high C which is introduced in the finale of the aria.

The last act is replete with beautiful melodies following each other in quick succession. It
opens with a very florid aria for Leonora ("D' amor sull' ali rosee"), leading to the exquisite
scene of the Miserere, "Ah che la morte,"--a number which has never yet failed to charm and
arouse audiences with the beauty and richness of its musical effect. As the Count enters, Leonora
has another powerful aria ("Mira di acerbe"), which in the next scene is followed by the familiar
duet between Azucena and Manrico, "Si la stanchezza," upon which Verdi lavished his musical
skill with charming effect. The last scene closes with the tragedy. The whole opera is liberally
enriched with melodies, and is dramatic throughout; but the last act is the crown of the work,
and may successfully challenge comparison, for beauty, variety, and dramatic effect, with any
other opera in the purely Italian school.

IL BALLO IN MASCHERA.

"Il Ballo in Maschera," an opera in three acts, but usually performed in four, words by M.
Somma, was first produced in Rome, Feb. 17, 1859. In preparing his work for the stage, Verdi
encountered numerous obstacles. The librettist used the same subject which M. Scribe had adopted
for Auber's opera, "Gustavus III.," and the opera was at first called by the same name,--"Gustavo
III." It was intended for production at the San Carlo, Naples, during the Carnival of 1858;
but while the rehearsals were proceeding, Orsini made his memorable attempt to kill Napoleon
III., and the authorities at once forbade a performance of the work, as it contained a conspiracy
scene. The composer was ordered to set different words to his music, but he peremptorily refused;
whereupon the manager brought suit against him, claiming forty thousand dollars damages. The
disappointment nearly incited a revolution in Naples. Crowds gathered in the streets shouting,
"Viva Verdi," implying at the same time, by the use of the letters in Verdi's name, the sentiment,
"Viva Vittorio Emmanuele Re Di Italia." A way out of his difficulties, however, was finally
suggested by the impresario at Rome, who arranged with the censorship to have the work brought
out at the Teatro Apollo as "Un Ballo in Maschera." The scene was changed to Boston, Massachusetts,
and the time laid in the colonial period, notwithstanding the anachronism that masked balls
were unknown at that time in New England history. The Swedish king appeared as Ricardo, Count
of Warwick and Governor of Boston, and his attendants as Royalists and Puritans, among them
two negroes, Sam and Tom, who are very prominent among the conspirators. In this form, the
Romans having no objection to the assassination of an English governor, the opera was produced
with great success.

The first act opens in the house of the Governor, where a large party, among them a group of
conspirators, is assembled. During the meeting a petition is presented for the banishment of
Ulrico, a negro sorcerer. Urged by curiosity, the Governor, disguised as a sailor and accompanied
by some of his friends, pays the old witch a visit. Meanwhile another visit has been planned.
Amelia, the wife of the Governor's secretary, meets the witch at night in quest of a remedy
for her passion for Richard, who of course has also been fascinated by her. They arrive about
the same time, and he overhears the witch telling her to go to a lonely spot, where she will
find an herb potent enough to cure her of her evil desires. The Governor follows her, and during
their interview the Secretary hurriedly rushes upon the scene to notify him that conspirators
are on his track. He throws a veil over Amelia's face and orders Reinhart, the Secretary, to
conduct her to a place of safety without seeking to know who she is. He consents, and the Governor
conceals himself in the forest. The conspirators meanwhile meet the pair, and in the confusion
Amelia drops her veil, thus revealing herself to Reinhart. Furious at the Governor's perfidy,
he joins the conspirators. In the denouement the Secretary stabs his master at a masquerade,
and the latter while dying attests the purity of Amelia, and magnanimously gives his secretary
a commission appointing him to a high position in England.

After a brief prelude, the first act opens with a double chorus, in which the attitude of the
friends of the Governor and the conspirators against him is strongly contrasted. In the next
scene Richard and his page, Oscar, enter; and after a short dialogue Richard sings a very graceful
romanza ("La rivedra nell' estasi"), which in the next scene is followed by a spirited aria
for Reinhart ("Di speranze e glorie piena"). In the fourth scene Oscar has a very pretty song
("Volta la terrea"), in which he defends Ulrica against the accusations of the judge, leading
up to a very effective quintet and chorus which has a flavor of the opera bouffe style. In
grim contrast with it comes the witch music in the next scene ("Re del abisso"), set to a weird
accompaniment. As the various parties arrive, a somewhat talky trio ensues between Amelia,
Ulrica, and Richard, followed in the next scene by a lovely barcarole ("Di' tu se fedele")
sung by Richard, leading to a beautifully written concerted finale full of sharp dramatic contrasts.

The second act opens upon a moonlight scene on the spot where murderers are punished; and Amelia,
searching for the magic herb, sings a long dramatic aria ("Ma dall arido") consisting of abrupt
and broken measures, the orchestra filling the gaps with characteristic accompaniment. Richard
appears upon the scene, and the passionate love-duet follows, "M'ami, m'ami." The interview
is ended by the sudden appearance of Reinhart, who warns the Governor of his danger, the scene
taking the form of a spirited trio ("Odi tu come"). A buffo trio closes the act, Sam and Tom
supplying the humorous element with their laughing refrain.

The last act opens in Reinhart's house with a passionate scene between the Secretary and his
wife, containing two strong numbers, a minor andante ("Morro, ma prima in grazia") for Amelia,
and an aria for Reinhart ("O dolcezzo perdute"), which for originality and true artistic power
is worthy of being classed as an inspiration. The conspiracy music then begins, and leads to
the ball scene, which is most brilliantly worked up with orchestra, military band, and stringed
quartet behind the scenes supplying the dance-music, and the accompaniment to the tragical
conspiracy, in the midst of which, like a bright sunbeam, comes the page's bewitching song,
"Saper vorreste." The opera closes with the death of Richard, set to a very dramatic accompaniment.
"The Masked Ball" was the last work Verdi wrote for the Italian stage, and though uneven in
its general effect, it contains some of his most original and striking numbers,--particularly
those allotted to the page and Reinhart. In the intensity of the music and the strength of
the situations it is superior even to "Trovatore," as the composer makes his effects more legitimately.

AIDA.

"Aida," an opera in four acts, was first produced at Cairo, Egypt, Dec. 27, 1871, and was written
upon a commission from the Khedive of that country. The subject of the opera was taken from
a sketch, originally written in prose, by the director of the Museum at Boulak, which was afterwards
rendered into French verse by M. Camille de Locle, and translated thence into Italian for Verdi
by Sig. A. Ghizlandoni. It is the last opera Verdi has composed, and is notable for his departure
from the conventional Italian forms and the partial surrender he has made to the constantly
increasing influence of the so-called music of the future. The subject is entirely Egyptian,
and the music is full of Oriental color.

The action of the opera passes in Memphis and Thebes, and the period is in the time of the
Pharaohs. Aida, the heroine, is a slave, daughter of Amonasro, the King of Ethiopia, and at
the opening of the opera is in captivity among the Egyptians. A secret attachment exists between
herself and Rhadames, a young Egyptian warrior, who is also loved by Amneris, daughter of the
sovereign of Egypt. The latter suspects that she has a rival, but does not discover her until
Rhadames returns victorious from an expedition against the rebellious Amonasro, who is brought
back a prisoner. The second act opens with a scene between Amneris and Aida, in which the Princess
wrests the secret from the slave by pretending that Rhadames has been killed; and the truth
is still further revealed when Rhadames pleads with the King to spare the lives of the captives.
The latter agrees to release all but Aida and Amonasro, bestows the hand of Amneris upon the
unwilling conqueror, and the act closes amid general jubilation. Acting upon Amonasro's admonitions,
Aida influences Rhadames to fly from Egypt and espouse the cause of her father. The lovers
are overheard by Amneris and Ramfis, the high priest. The Princess, with all the fury of a
woman scorned, denounces Rhadames as a traitor. He is tried for treason and condemned to be
buried alive in the vaults under the temple of the god Phtah. Pardon is offered him if he will
accept the hand of Amneris, but he refuses and descends to the tomb, where he finds Aida awaiting
him. The stones are sealed above them and the lovers are united in death, while Amneris, heart-broken
over the tragedy her jealousy has caused, kneels in prayer before their sepulchre.

After a short prelude, consisting of a beautiful pianissimo movement, mainly for the violins,
and very Wagnerish in its general style, the first act opens in a hall of the King's palace
at Memphis. A short dialogue between Rhadames and the priest Ramfis leads to a delicious romanza
("Celeste Aida") which is entirely fresh and original, recalling nothing that appears in any
of Verdi's previous works. It is followed by a strong declamatory duet between Rhadames and
Amneris, which upon the appearance of Aida develops to a trio ("Vieni, o diletta"). In the
next scene the King and his retinue of ministers, priests, and warriors enter, and a majestic
ensemble occurs, beginning with a martial chorus ("Su! del Nilo") in response to the appeal
of the priests. As the war chorus dies away and the retinue disappears, Aida has a scena of
great power. It begins with a lament for her country ("Ritorna vincitor"), in passionate declamatory
phrases, clearly showing the influence of Wagner; but in its smooth, flowing cantabile in the
finale, "Numi pieta," Verdi returns to the Italian style again. The final scene is full of
oriental color and barbaric richness of display. The consecrated arms are delivered to Rhadames.
The priestesses behind the scene to the accompaniment of harps, and the priests in front with
sonorous chant, invoke the aid of the god Phtah, while other priestesses execute the sacred
dance. An impressive duet between Ramfis and Rhadames closes the act. In this finale, Verdi
has utilized two native Egyptian themes,--the melody sung by the priestesses with the harps,
and the dance-melody given out by the flutes.

The second act opens with a female chorus by the slave girls, the rhythm of which is in keeping
with the oriental scene, followed by an impassioned duet between Amneris and Aida ("Alla pompa
che si appresta"), through which are heard the martial strains of the returning conqueror.
The second scene opens the way for another ensemble, which with its massive choruses, and its
stirring march and ballet, heralding the victory of Rhadames, is one of the most picturesque
stage scenes the opera has ever furnished. A solemn, plaintive strain runs through the general
jubilation in the appeal of Amonasro ("Questo assisa ch' io vesto") to the King for mercy to
the captives. The finale begins with the remonstrances of the priests and people against the
appeals of Amonasro and Rhadames, and closes with an intensely dramatic concerted number,--a
quintet set off against the successive choruses of the priests, prisoners, and people ("Gloria
all' Egitto").

The third act, like the first, after a brief dialogue, opens with a lovely romanza ("O cieli
azzuri") sung by Aida, and the remainder of the act is devoted to two duets,--the first between
Amonasro and Aida, and the second between Rhadames and Aida. Each is very dramatic in style
and passionate in declamation, while they are revelations in the direction of combining the
poetic and musical elements, when compared with any of the duets in Verdi's previous operas.
In the last act the first scene contains another impressive duet between Rhadames and Amneris
("Chi ti salva, o sciagurato"), ending with the despairing song of Amneris, "Ohime! morir mi
sento." In the last scene the stage is divided into two parts. The upper represents the temple
of Vulcan, or Phtah, crowded with priests and priestesses, chanting as the stone is closed
over the subterranean entrance, while below, in the tomb, Aida and Rhadames sing their dying
duet ("O terra, addio"), its strains blending with the jubilation of the priests and the measures
of the priestesses' sacred dance. "Aida" is the last and unquestionably the greatest, if not
the most popular, of Verdi's works. It marks a long step from the style of his other operas
towards the production of dramatic effect by legitimate musical means, and shows the strong
influence Wagner has had upon him. Since this work was produced, no other for the stage has
come from his pen. Should he break his long silence, some new work may show that he has gone
still farther in the new path. If the time for rest has come, however, to the aged composer,
"Aida" will remain his masterpiece among musicians and connoisseurs, though "Trovatore" will
be best loved by the people.

OTHELLO.

Othello has formed the subject of the following compositions: "Otello," opera in 3 acts, text
by Berio, music by Rossini (1816); "Othelleri," parody by Müller, Vienna (1828); Othello, overture
by Krug (1883); "Un Othello," operetta, by Legoux, Paris (1863); and "Othello," opera in 4
acts, text by Boito, music by Verdi (1886).

"Othello," the last of the long and brilliant series of Verdi's operas, was completed in 1886,
and first produced at the La Scala Theatre, Milan, Feb. 5,

1887, with remarkable success, Signora Pantaleoni, Signors Maurel and Tamagno taking the three
leading rôles. The libretto was prepared by the accomplished Italian scholar and musician,
Arrigo Boito, and closely follows the story of the Shakspearian tragedy.

The curtain rises upon a scene in Cyprus. A storm is raging, and a crowd, among them Iago,
Cassio, and Roderigo, watch the angry sea, speculating upon the fate of Othello's vessel, which
finally arrives safely in port amid much rejoicing. After returning the welcomes of his friends
he enters the castle with Cassio and Montano. The conspiracy at once begins by the disclosure
of Iago to Roderigo of the means by which Cassio's ruin may be compassed. Then follows the
quarrel, which is interrupted by the appearance of Othello, who deprives Cassio of his office.
A love-scene ensues between Desdemona and the Moor; but in the next act the malignity of Iago
has already begun to take effect, and the seeds of jealousy are sown in Othello's breast. His
suspicions are freshly aroused when Desdemona intercedes in Cassio's behalf, and are changed
to conviction by the handkerchief episode and Iago's artful insinuation that Cassio mutters
the name of Desdemona in his sleep; at which the enraged Moor clutches him by the throat and
hurls him to the ground. In the third act Iago continues his diabolical purpose, at last so
inflaming Othello's mind that he denounces Desdemona for her perfidy. The act concludes with
the audience to the Venetian embassy, during which he becomes enraged, strikes Desdemona, and
falls in convulsions. The last act transpires in her chamber, and follows Shakspeare in all
the details of the smothering of Desdemona and the death of Othello.

There is no overture proper to the opera. After a few vigorous bars of prelude, the scene opens
with a tempestuous and very striking description of a sea-storm by the orchestra, with the
choruses of sailors and Cypriots rising above it and expressing alternate hope and terror.
After a short recitative the storm dies away, and the choral phrases of rejoicing end in a
pianissimo effect. A hurried recitative passage between Iago and Roderigo introduces a drinking
scene in which Iago sings a very original and expressive brindisi with rollicking responses
by the chorus. The quarrel follows with a vigorous and agitated accompaniment, and the act
comes to a close with a beautiful love-duet between Othello and Desdemona.

The second act opens with recitative which reveals all of Iago's malignity, and is followed
by his monologue, in which he sings a mock Credo which is Satanic in utterance. It is accompanied
with tremendous outbursts of trumpets, and leads up to a furious declamatory duet with Othello.
The next number brings a grateful change. It is a graceful mandolinata, sung by children's
voices and accompanied by mandolins and guitars, followed by a charming chorus of mariners,
who bring shells and corals to Desdemona. The intercession episode ensues, leading to a grand
dramatic quartet for Desdemona, Emilia, Iago, and Othello. The latter then sings a pathetic
but stirring melody with trumpet accompaniment, the farewell to war, and the act closes with
a tumultuous duet between himself and Iago.

The third act opens with a very expressive duet for Othello and Desdemona, in which the growing
wrath of the former and the sweet and touching unconsciousness of the other are happily contrasted.
A sad monologue by Othello prepares the way for the coming outbreak. The handkerchief trio
follows, in which the malignity of Iago, the indignation of Othello, and the inability of Cassio
to understand the fell purpose of Iago are brought out with great force. At its close a fanfare
of trumpets announces the Venetian embassy, and the finale begins with much brilliancy. Then
follows the scene in which Othello smites down Desdemona. She supplicates for mercy in an aria
of tender beauty, which leads up to a strong sextet. All the guests depart but Iago; and as
Othello, overcome with his emotions, swoons away, the curtain falls upon Iago's contemptuous
utterance, "There lies the lion of Venice."

The fourth act is full of musical beauty. After an orchestral introduction in which the horn
has a very effective solo, the curtain rises and the action transpires in Desdemona's chamber.
The scene opens with a touching recitative between Desdemona and Emilia. While the former prepares
herself for slumber she sings the "Willow Song," an unaffected melody as simple and characteristic
as a folk-song. Emilia retires, and by a natural transition Desdemona sings an "Ave Maria,"
which is as simple and beautiful in its way as the "Willow Song." She retires to her couch,
and in the silence Othello steals in, dagger in hand, the contra-basses giving out a sombre
and deep-toned accompaniment which is startling in its effect. He kisses her, the motive from
the love-duet appearing in the orchestra; then, after a hurried dialogue, stifles her. He then
kills himself, his last words being a repetition of those in the duet, while the strings tenderly
give out the melody again.

FALSTAFF.

"Falstaff," an opera in three acts, words by Arrigo Boito, was first performed March 12, 1893,
at the Teatro alla Scala, Milan, with the following cast of characters:--

  Mistress FORD        Signora ZILLI
  NANNETTA             Madame STEHLE
  FENTON               M. GARBIN
  Dr. CAIUS            Signor PAROLI
  PISTOLA              Signor ARIMONDI
  Mistress PAGE        Signora GUERRINI
  Mistress QUICKLY     Signora PASQUA
  FORD                 Signor PINI-CORSI
  BARDOLFO             Signor PELAGALLI-ROSSETTI
  FALSTAFF             M. MAUREL

The libretto, which is mainly based upon "The Merry Wives of Windsor," also makes some contributions
upon "Henry IV.," particularly in the introduction of the monologue upon honor, and illustrates
Boito's skill in adaptation as well as his remarkable powers in condensation. In the arrangement
of the comedy the five acts are reduced to three. The characters Shallow, Slender, William,
Page, Sir Hugh Evans, Simple, and Rugby are eliminated, leaving Falstaff, Fenton, Ford, Dr.
Caius, Bardolph, Pistol, Mistress Ford, Mistress Page, Anne, Dame Quickly and three minor characters
as the dramatis personæ, though Anne appears as Nannetta and is the daughter of Ford instead
of Page.

The first act opens with a scene at the Garter Inn, disclosing an interview between Falstaff
and Dr. Caius, who is complaining of the ill treatment he has received from the fat Knight
and his followers, but without obtaining any satisfaction. After his departure, Falstaff seeks
to induce Bardolph and Pistol to carry his love-letters to Mistresses Ford and Page; but they
refuse, upon the ground that their honor would be assailed, which gives occasion for the introduction
of the monologue from "Henry IV." The letters are finally intrusted to a page, and the remainder
of the act is devoted to the plots of the women to circumvent him, with an incidental revelation
of the loves of Fenton and Nannetta, or Anne Page. In the second act, we have Falstaff's visit
to Mistress Ford, as planned by the merry wives, the comical episode of his concealment in
the buck-basket, and his dumping into the Thames. In the last act, undaunted by his buck-basket
experiences, Falstaff accepts a fresh invitation to meet Mistress Ford in Windsor Park. In
this episode occurs the fairy masquerade at Herne's Oak, in the midst of which he is set upon
and beaten, ending in his complete discomfiture. Then all is explained to him; Nannetta is
betrothed to Fenton; and all ends merry as a marriage bell.

There is no overture. After four bars of prelude the curtain rises, and the composer introduces
Dr. Caius with the single exclamation, "Falstaff," and the latter's reply, "Ho! there," which
are emblematic of the declamatory character of the whole opera; for although many delightful
bits of melody are scattered through it, the instrumentation really tells the story, as in
the Wagner music-drama, though in this latest work of the veteran composer there is less of
the Wagnerian idea than in his "Aida." The first scene is mainly humorous dialogue, but there
are two notable exceptions,--the genuine lyrical music of Falstaff's song ("'Tis she with eyes
like stars"), and the Honor monologue, a superb piece of recitative with a characteristic accompaniment
in which the clarinets and bassoons fairly talk, as they give the negative to the Knight's
sarcastic questions. The most attractive numbers of the second scene are Mistress Ford's reading
of Falstaff's letter, which is exquisitely lyrical, a quartet, a capella, for the four women
("He'll surely come courting"), followed by a contrasting male quartet ("He's a foul, a ribald
thief"), the act closing with the two quartets offsetting each other, and enclosing an admirable
solo for Fenton.

The second act opens with the interview between Dame Quickly and Falstaff, in which the instrumentation
runs the whole gamut of ironical humor. Then follows the scene between Ford and Falstaff, in
which the very clink of the money, and Falstaff's huge chuckles, are deliberately set forth
in the orchestra with a realism which is the very height of the ridiculous, the scene closing
with an expressive declamation by Ford ("Do I dream? Or, is it reality?"). The second scene
of the act is mainly devoted to the ludicrous incident of the buck-basket, which is accompanied
by most remarkable instrumentation; but there are one or more captivating episodes; such as
Dame Quickly's description of her visit ("'Twas at the Garter Inn") and Falstaff's charming
song ("Once I was Page to the Duke of Norfolk").

The third act opens in the Inn of the Garter, and discloses Falstaff soliloquizing upon his
late disagreeable experiences:--

  "Ho! landlord!
  Ungrateful world, wicked world,
  Guilty world!
  Landlord! a glass of hot sherry.
  Go, go thy way, John Falstaff,
  With thee will cease the type
  Of honesty, virtue, and might."

As the fat Knight soliloquizes and drinks his sack the orchestra takes part in a trill given
out by piccolo, and gradually taken by one instrument after the other, until the whole orchestra
is in a hearty laugh and shaking with string, brass, and wood wind glee. Then enters Dame Quickly,
mischief-maker, and sets the trap at Herne's Oak in Windsor Forest, into which Falstaff readily
falls. The closing scene is rich with humor. It opens with a delightful love-song by Fenton
("From those sweet lips a song of love arises"). The conspirators enter one after the other,
and at last Falstaff, disguised as the sable hunter. The elves are summoned, and glide about
to the delicious fairy music accompanying Nannetta's beautiful song ("While we dance in the
moonlight"). From this point the action hastens to the happy dénouement, and the work concludes
with a fugue which is imbued with the very spirit of humor and yet is strictly constructed.
While the vocal parts are extraordinary in their declamatory significance, the strength of
the opera lies in the instrumentation, and its charm in the delicious fun and merriment which
pervades it all and is aptly expressed in the closing lines:--

  "All in this world is jesting.
  Man is born to be jolly,
  E'en from grief some happiness wresting
  Sure proof against melancholy."

WAGNER.

Richard Wagner, who has been somewhat ironically called the musician of the future, and whose
music has been relegated to posterity by a considerable number of his contemporaries, was born
at Leipsic, May 22, 1813. After his preliminary studies in Dresden and Leipsic, he took his
first lessons in music from Cantor Weinlig. In 1836 he was appointed musical director in the
theatre at Magdeburg, and later occupied the same position at Königsberg. Thence he went to
Riga, where he began his opera "Rienzi." He then went to Paris by sea, was nearly shipwrecked
on his way thither, and landed without money or friends. After two years of hard struggling
he returned to Germany. His shipwreck and forlorn condition inspired the theme of "The Flying
Dutchman," and while on his way to Dresden he passed near the castle of Wartburg, in the valley
of Thuringia, whose legends inspired his well-known opera of "Tannhäuser." He next removed
to Zurich, and about this time appeared "Lohengrin," one of his most favorite operas. "Tristan
and Isolde" was produced in 1856, and his comic opera, "Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg," three
years later. In 1864 he received the patronage of King Louis of Bavaria, which enabled him
to complete and perform his great work, "Der Ring der Nibelungen." He laid the foundation of
the new theatre at Baireuth in 1872, and in 1875 the work was produced, and created a profound
sensation all over the musical world. "Parsifal," his last opera, was first performed in 1882.
His works have aroused great opposition, especially among conservative musicians, for the reason
that he has set at defiance the conventional operatic forms, and in carrying out his theory
of making the musical and dramatic elements of equal importance, and employing the former as
the language of the latter in natural ways, has made musical declamation take the place of
set melody, and swept away the customary arias, duets, quartets, and concerted numbers of the
Italian school, to suit the dramatic exigencies of the situations. Besides his musical compositions,
he enjoys almost equal fame as a litterateur, having written not only his own librettos, but
four important works,--"Art and the Revolution," "The Art Work of the Future," "Opera and Drama,"
and "Judaism in Music." His music has made steady progress through the efforts of such advocates
as Liszt, Von Bülow, and Richter in Germany, Pasdeloup in France, Hueffer in England, and Theodore
Thomas in the United States. In 1870 he married Frau Cosima von Bülow, the daughter of Liszt,--an
event which provoked almost as much comment in social circles as his operas have in musical.
He died during a visit to Venice, Feb. 13, 1883.

RIENZI.

"Rienzi der letzte der Tribunen," a tragic opera in five acts, words by the composer, the subject
taken from Bulwer's novel, "The Last of the Tribunes," was first produced at Dresden, Oct.
20, 1842, with Herr Tichatscheck, Mme. Schröder-Devrient, and Mlle. Wiest in the principal
rôles. It was designed and partly completed during Wagner's stay in Riga as orchestra leader.
In his Autobiography the composer says that he first read the story at Dresden in 1837, and
was greatly impressed with its adaptability for opera. He began it in the fall of the same
year at Riga, and says: "I had composed two numbers of it, when I found, to my annoyance, that
I was again fairly on the way to the composition of music à la Adam. I put the work aside in
disgust." Later he projected the scheme of a great tragic opera in five acts, and began upon
it with fresh enthusiasm in the fall of 1838. By the spring of 1839 the first two acts were
completed. At that time his engagement at Riga terminated, and he set out for Paris. He soon
found that it would be hopeless for him to bring out the opera in that city, notwithstanding
Meyerbeer had promised to assist him. He offered it to the Grand Opera and to the Renaissance,
but neither would accept it. Nothing daunted, he resumed work upon it, intending it for Dresden.
In October, 1842, it was at last produced in that city, and met with such success that it secured
him the position of capellmeister at the Dresden opera-house.

The action of the opera passes at Rome, towards the middle of the fourteenth century. The first
act opens at night, in a street near the Church of St. John Lateran, and discovers Orsini,
a Roman patrician, accompanied by a crowd of nobles, attempting to abduct Irene, the sister
of Rienzi, a papal notary. The plot is interrupted by the entrance of Colonna, the patrician
leader of another faction, who demands the girl. A quarrel ensues. Adriano, the son of Colonna,
who is in love with Irene, suddenly appears and rushes to her defence. Gradually other patricians
and plebeians are attracted by the tumult, among the latter, Rienzi. When he becomes aware
of the insult offered his sister, he takes counsel with the Cardinal Raimondo, and they agree
to rouse the people in resistance to the outrages of the nobles. Adriano is placed in an embarrassing
position,--his relationship to the Colonnas urging him to join the nobles, and his love for
Irene impelling him with still stronger force to make common cause with the people. He finally
decides to follow Rienzi, just as the trumpets are heard calling the people to arms and Rienzi
clad in full armor makes his appearance to lead them.

The struggle is a short one. The nobles are overcome, and in the second act they appear at
the Capitol to acknowledge their submission to Rienzi: but Adriano, who has been among them,
warns Rienzi that they have plotted to kill him. Festal dances, processions, and gladiatorial
combats follow, in the midst of which Orsini rushes at Rienzi and strikes at him with his dagger.
Rienzi is saved by a steel breastplate under his robes. The nobles are at once seized and condemned
to death. Adriano pleads with Rienzi to spare his father, and moved by his eloquence he renews
the offer of pardon if they will swear submission. They take the oath only to violate it. The
people rise and demand their extermination. Rienzi once more draws the sword, and Adriano in
vain appeals to him to avert the slaughter. He is again successful, and on his return announces
to Adriano that the Colonnas and Orsinis are no more. The latter warns him of coming revenge,
and the act closes with the coronation of Rienzi.

The fourth act opens at night near the church. The popular tide has now turned against Rienzi,
upon the report that he is in league with the German Emperor to restore the pontiff. A festive
cortége approaches, escorting him to the church. The nobles bar his way, but disperse at his
command; whereupon Adriano rushes at him with drawn dagger, but the blow is averted as he hears
the chant of malediction in the church, and sees its dignitaries placing the ban of excommunication
against Rienzi upon its doors. He hurries to Irene, warns her that her brother's life is no
longer safe, and urges her to fly with him. She repulses him, and seeks her brother, to share
his dangers or die with him. She finds him at prayer in the Capitol. He counsels her to accept
the offer of Adriano and save herself, but she repeats her determination to die with him. The
sounds of the approaching crowd are heard outside. Rienzi makes a last appeal to them from
the balcony, but the infuriated people will not listen. They set fire to the Capitol with their
torches, and stone Rienzi and Irene through the windows. As the flames spread from room to
room and Adriano beholds them enveloping the devoted pair, he throws away his sword, rushes
into the burning building, and perishes with them.

The overture of "Rienzi" is in the accepted form, for the opera was written before Wagner had
made his new departure in music, and takes its principal themes, notably Rienzi's prayer for
the people and the finale to the first act, from the body of the work. The general style of
the whole work is vigorous and tumultuous. The first act opens with a hurly-burly of tumult
between the contending factions and the people. The first scene contains a vigorous aria for
the hero ("Wohl an so mög es sein"), which leads up to a fiery terzetto ("Adriano du? Wie ein
Colonna!") between Rienzi, Irene, and Adriano, followed by an intensely passionate scene ("Er
geht und lässt dich meinem Schutz") between the last two. The finale is a tumultuous mass of
sound, through which are heard the tones of trumpets and cries of the people. It opens with
a massive double chorus ("Gegrüsst, gegrüsst"), shouted by the people on the one side and the
monks in the Lateran on the other, accompanied by an andante movement on the organ. It is interrupted
for a brief space by the ringing appeal of Rienzi "Erstehe, hohe Roma, neu," and then closes
with an energetic andante, a quartet joining the choruses. This finale is clearly Italian in
form, and much to Wagner's subsequent disgust was described by Hanslick as a mixture of Donizetti
and Meyerbeer, and a clear presage of the coming Verdi.

The second act opens with a stately march, introducing the messengers of peace, who join in
a chorus of greeting, followed by a second chorus of senators and the tender of submission
made by the nobles. A terzetto between Adriano, Orsini, and Colonna, set off against a chorus
of the nobles, leads up to the finale. It opens with a joyful chorus ("Erschallet feier Klänge"),
followed by rapid dialogue between Orsini and Colonna on the one hand and Adriano and Rienzi
on the other. A long and elaborate ballet intervenes, divided into several numbers,--an Introduction,
Pyrrhic Dance, Combat of Roman Gladiators and Cavaliers, and the Dance of the Apotheosis, in
which the Goddess of Peace is transformed to the Goddess, protector of Rome. The scene abruptly
changes, and the act closes with a great ensemble in which the defiance of the conspirators,
the tolling of bells, the chants of the monks, and the ferocious outcries of the people shouting
for revenge are mingled in strong contrasts.

The third act is full of tumult. After a brief prelude, amid the ringing of bells and cries
of alarm, the people gather and denounce the treachery of the nobles, leading up to a spirited
call to arms by Rienzi ("Ihr Römer, auf"). The people respond in furious chorus, and as the
sound of the bells and battle-cries dies away Adriano enters. His scene opens with a prayer
("Gerechter Gott") for the aversion of carnage, which changes to an agitated allegro ("Wo war
ich?") as he hears the great bell of the Capitol tolling the signal for slaughter. The finale
begins with a massive march, as the bells and sounds of alarm are heard approaching again,
and bands of citizens, priests and monks, the high clergy, senators and nobles, pass and repass
in quick succession, at last followed by Rienzi, which is the signal for the great battle-hymn,
"Santo spirito cavaliere," which is to be sung with great fire and energy, accompanied by great
and small bells ringing behind the scenes, the clash of swords upon shields, and full power
of chorus and orchestra. A dialogue follows between Adriano and Rienzi, and then the various
bands disappear singing the ritornelle of the hymn. A great duet ("Lebwohl, Irene") ensues
between Adriano and Irene, which in its general outlines reminds one of the duet between Raoul
and Valentin in "The Huguenots." At its conclusion, after a prayer by the chorus of women,
the battle hymn is heard again in the distance, gradually approaching, and the act closes with
a jubilee chorus ("Auf! im Triumpf zum Capitol"), welcoming the return of the conquerors.

The fourth act is short, its principal numbers being the introduction, terzetto and chorus
("Wer war's der euch hierher beschied?"), and the finale, beginning with a somewhat sombre
march of the cortége accompanying Rienzi to the church, leading to the details of the conspiracy
scene, and closing with the malediction of the monks, "Vae, vae tibi maledicto." The last act
opens with an impressive prayer by Rienzi ("Allmacht'ger Vater"), which leads to a tender duet
("Verlässt die Kirche mich") as Irene enters, closing with a passionate aria by Rienzi ("Ich
liebte glühend"). The duet is then resumed, and leads to a second and intensely passionate
duet ("Du hier Irene!") between Adriano and Irene. The finale is brief, but full of energy,
and is principally choral. The dénouement hurries, and the tragedy is reached amid a tumultuous
outburst of voices and instruments. Unlike Wagner's other operas, in "Rienzi" set melody dominates,
and the orchestra, as in the Italian school, furnishes the accompaniments. We have the regular
overture, aria, duet, trio, and concerted finale; but after "Rienzi" we shall observe a change,
at last becoming so radical that the composer himself threw aside his first opera as unworthy
of performance.

THE FLYING DUTCHMAN.

"Der Fliegende Holländer," a romantic opera in three acts, words by the composer, the subject
taken from Heinrich Heine's version of the legend, was first produced at Dresden, Jan. 2, 1843,
with Mme. Schröder-Devrient and Herr Wechter in the two principal rôles. It was also produced
in London in 1870 at Drury Lane as "L'Ollandose dannato," by Signor Arditi, with Mlle. Di Murska,
Signors Foli, Perotti, and Rinaldini, and Mr. Santley in the leading parts; in 1876, by Carl
Rosa as "The Flying Dutchman," an English version; and again in 1877 as "Il Vascello fantasma."
In this country the opera was introduced in its English form by Miss Clara Louise Kellogg.

Wagner conceived the idea of writing "The Flying Dutchman" during the storm which overtook
him on his voyage from Riga to Paris. He says in his Autobiography: "'The Flying Dutchman,'
whose intimate acquaintance I had made at sea, continually enchained my fancy. I had become
acquainted, too, with Heinrich Heine's peculiar treatment of the legend in one portion of his
'Salon.' Especially the treatment of the delivery of this Ahasuerus of the ocean (taken by
Heine from a Dutch drama of the same title) gave me everything ready to use the legend as the
libretto of an opera. I came to an understanding about it with Heine himself, drew up the scheme,
and gave it to M. Léon Pillet [manager of the Grand Opera], with the proposition that he should
have a French libretto made from it for me." Subsequently M. Pillet purchased the libretto
direct from Wagner, who consented to the transaction, as he saw no opportunity of producing
the opera in Paris. It was then set by Dietsch as "Le Vaisseau fantôme," and brought out in
Paris in 1842. In the mean time, not discouraged by his bad fortune, Wagner set to work, wrote
the German verse, and completed the opera in seven weeks for Dresden, where it was finally
performed, as already stated. Unlike "Rienzi," it met with failure both in Dresden and Berlin;
but its merits were recognized by Spohr, who encouraged him to persevere in the course he had
marked out.

The plot of the opera is very simple. A Norwegian vessel, commanded by Daland, compelled by
stress of weather, enters a port not far from her destination. At the same time a mysterious
vessel, with red sails and black hull, commanded by the wandering Flying Dutchman, who is destined
to sail the seas without rest until he finds a maiden who will be faithful until death, puts
into the same port. The two captains meet, and Daland invites the stranger to his home. The
two at last progress so rapidly in mutual favor that a marriage is agreed upon between the
stranger and Senta, Daland's daughter. The latter is a dreamy, imaginative girl, who, though
she has an accepted lover, Eric, is so fascinated with the legend of the stranger that she
becomes convinced she is destined to save him from perdition. When he arrives with her father
she recognizes him at once, and vows eternal constancy to him. In the last act, however, Eric
appears and reproaches Senta with her faithlessness. The stranger overhears them, and concludes
that as she has been recreant to her former lover, so too she will be untrue to him. He decides
to leave her; for if he should remain, her penalty would be eternal death. As his mysterious
vessel sails away Senta rushes to a cliff, and crying out that her life will be the price of
his release, hurls herself into the sea, vowing to be constant to him even in death. The phantom
vessel sinks, the sea grows calm, and in the distance the two figures are seen rising in the
sunlight never to be parted.

The overture characterizes the persons and situations of the drama, and introduces the motives
which Wagner ever after used so freely,--among them the curse resting upon the Dutchman, the
restless motion of the sea, the message of the Angel of Mercy personified in Senta, the personification
of the Dutchman, and the song of Daland's crew. The first act opens with an introduction representing
a storm, and a characteristic sailors' chorus, followed by an exquisite love-song for tenor
("Mit Gewitter und Sturm"), and a grand scena of the Dutchman ("Die Frist ist um"), which lead
up to a melodious duet between the Dutchman and Daland. The act closes with the sailors' chorus
as the two vessels sail away.

After a brief instrumental prelude, the second act opens in Daland's home, where the melancholy
Senta sits surrounded by her companions, who are spinning. To the whirring accompaniment of
the violins they sing a very realistic spinning song ("Summ' und brumm du gutes Mädchen"),
interrupted at intervals by the laughter of the girls as they rally Senta upon her melancholy
looks. Senta replies with a weird and exquisitely melodious ballad ("Johohae! träfft ihr das
Schiff im Meere an"), in which she tells the story of the Flying Dutchman, and anticipates
her own destiny. The song is full of intense feelings and is characterized by a motive which
frequently recurs in the opera, and is the key to the whole work. A duet follows between Eric
and Senta, the melodious character of which shows that Wagner was not yet entirely freed from
Italian influences. A short duet ensues between Senta and her father, and then the Dutchman
appears. As they stand and gaze at each other for a long time, the orchestra meanwhile supplying
the supposed emotions of each, we have a clew to the method Wagner was afterwards to employ
so successfully. A duet between Senta and the Dutchman ("Wie aus der Ferne") and a terzetto
with Daland close the act.

The third act opens with another sailors' chorus ("Steuermann, lass' die Wacht"), and a brisk
dialogue between them and the women who are bringing them provisions. The latter also hail
the crew of the Dutchman's vessel, but get no reply until the wind suddenly rises, when they
man the vessel and sing the refrain with which the Dutchman is continually identified. A double
chorus of the two crews follows. Senta then appears accompanied by Eric, who seeks to restrain
her from following the stranger in a very dramatic duet ("Was muss ich hören?"). The finale
is made up of sailors' and female choruses, and a trio between Senta, Daland, and the Dutchman,
which are woven together with consummate skill, and make a very effective termination to the
weird story. There are no points in common between "The Flying Dutchman" and "Rienzi," except
that in the former Wagner had not yet clearly freed himself from conventional melody. It is
interesting as marking his first step towards the music of the future in his use of motives,
his wonderful treatment of the orchestra in enforcing the expression of the text, and his combination
of the voices and instrumentation in what he so aptly calls "The Music-Drama."

TANNHÄUSER

"Tannhäuser und der Singerkrieg auf Wartburg" ("Tannhäuser and the singers' contest at the
Wartburg"), a romantic opera in three acts, words by the composer, was first produced at the
Royal Opera, Dresden, Oct. 20, 1845, with Mme. Schröder-Devrient and Herr Niemann as Elizabeth
and Tannhäuser. Its first performance in Paris was on March 13, 1861; but it was a failure
after three representations, and was made the butt of Parisian ridicule, even Berlioz joining
in the tirade. In England it was brought out in Italian at Covent Garden, May 6, 1876, though
its overture was played by the London Philharmonic orchestra in 1855, Wagner himself leading.

In the spring of 1842 Wagner returned from Paris to Germany, and on his way to Dresden visited
the castle of Wartburg, in the Thuringian Valley, where he first conceived the idea of writing
"Tannhäuser." The plot was taken from an old German tradition, which centres about the castle
where the landgraves of the thirteenth century instituted peaceful contests between the Minnesingers
and knightly poets. Near this castle towers the Venusberg, a dreary elevation, which, according
to popular tradition, was inhabited by Holda, the goddess of Spring. Proscribed by Christianity,
she took refuge in its caverns, where she was afterwards confounded with the Grecian Venus.
Her court was filled with nymphs and sirens, who enticed those whose impure desires led them
to its vicinity, and lured them into the caverns, from which they were supposed never to return.
The first act opens in this court, and reveals Tannhäuser, the knight and minstrel, under the
sway of Venus. In spite of her fascinations he succeeds in tearing himself away, and we next
find him at the castle of Wartburg, the home of Hermann the Landgrave, whose daughter Elizabeth
is in love with him. At the minstrel contest he enters into the lists with the other Minnesingers,
and, impelled by a reckless audacity and the subtle influence of Venus, sings of the attractions
of sensual pleasures. Walter, of the Vogelweide, replies with a song to virtue. Tannhäuser
breaks out in renewed sensual strains, and a quarrel ensues. The knights rush upon him with
their swords, but Elizabeth interposes and saves his life. He expresses his penitence, makes
a pilgrimage to Rome and confesses to the Pope, who replies that, having tasted the pleasures
of hell, he is forever damned, and, raising his crosier, adds: "Even as this wood cannot blossom
again, so there is no pardon for thee." Elizabeth prays for him in her solitude, but her prayers
apparently are of no avail. At last he returns dejected and hopeless, and in his wanderings
meets Wolfram, another minstrel, also in love with Elizabeth, to whom he tells the sad story
of his pilgrimage. He determines to return to the Venusberg. He hears the voices of the sirens
luring him back. Wolfram seeks to detain him, but is powerless until he mentions the name of
Elizabeth, when the sirens vanish and their spells lose their attraction. A funeral procession
approaches in the distance, and on the bier is the form of the saintly Elizabeth. He sinks
down upon the coffin and dies. As his spirit passes away his pilgrim's staff miraculously bursts
out into leaf and blossom, showing that his sins have been forgiven.

The overture to the opera is well known by its frequent performances as a concert number. It
begins with the pilgrim's song, which, as it dies away, is succeeded by the seductive spells
of the Venusberg and the voices of the sirens calling to Tannhäuser. As the whirring sounds
grow fainter and fainter, the pilgrim's song is again heard gradually approaching, and at last
closing the overture in a joyous burst of harmony. The first act opens with the scene in the
Venusberg, accompanied by the Bacchanale music, which was written in Paris by Wagner after
the opera was finished and had been performed. It is now known as "the Parisian Bacchanale."
It is followed by a voluptuous scene between Tannhäuser and Venus, a long dialogue, during
which the hero, seizing his harp, trolls out a song ("Doch sterblich, ach!"), the theme of
which has already been given out by the overture, expressing his weariness of her companionship.
The second scene transports us to a valley, above which towers the castle of Wartburg. A young
shepherd, perched upon a rock, sings a pastoral invocation to Holda ("Frau Holda kam aus dem
Berg hervor"), the strains of his pipe (an oboe obligato) weaving about the stately chorus
of the elder pilgrims ("Zu dir wall' ich, mein Herr und Gott") as they come along the mountain
paths from the castle. The scene, which is one of great beauty, closes with the lament of Tannhäuser
("Ach! schwer drückt mich der Sünden Last"), intermingled with the receding song of the pilgrims,
the ringing of church-bells in the distance, and the merry notes of hunters' horns as the Landgrave
and his followers approach. The meeting with Tannhäuser leads to an expressive septet, in which
Wolfram has a very impressive solo ("Als du in kühnem Sange").

The second act opens in the singers' hall of the Wartburg. Elizabeth, entering joyfully, greets
it in a recitation ("Froh grüss ich dich, geliebter Raum"), if we may so term it, which is
characterized by a joyous but dignified dramatic appeal, recalling the scenes of her youth.
The interview between Tannhäuser and Elizabeth, which follows, gives rise to a long dialogue,
closing with a union of the two voices in the charming duet, "Gepriesen sei die Macht." Then
follows the grand march and chorus, "Freudig begrüssen wir die edle Halle," announcing the
beginning of the song contest. The stirring rhythm and bold, broad outlines of this march are
so well known that it is needless to dwell upon it. The scene of the contest is declamatory
throughout, and full of animation and spirit; its most salient points being the hymn of Wolfram
("O Himmel lasst dich jetzt erflehen") in honor of ideal love, and Elizabeth's appeal to the
knights to spare Tannhäuser ("Zurück von ihm"), which leads up to a spirited septet and choral
ensemble closing the act.

In the third act we are once more in the valley of the Wartburg. After a plaintive song by
Wolfram ("Wohl wusst ich hier sie im Gebet zu finden"), the chorus of the returning pilgrims
is heard in the distance, working up to a magnificent crescendo as they approach and cross
the stage. Elizabeth, who has been earnestly watching them to find if Tannhäuser be of their
number, disappointed, sinks upon her knees and sings the touching prayer, "Allmächt'ge Jungfrau,
hör mein Flehen." As she leaves the scene, Wolfram takes his harp and sings the enchanting
fantasy to the evening star, "O, du mein holder Abendstern,"--a love-song to the saintly Elizabeth.
Tannhäuser makes his appearance. A long declamatory dialogue ensues between himself and Wolfram,
in which he recites the story of his pilgrimage. The scene is one of extraordinary power, and
calls for the highest vocal and dramatic qualities in order to make it effective. From this
point on, the tragedy hastens. There is the struggle once more with the sirens, and amid Wolfram's
touching appeals and Tannhäuser's exclamations is heard the enticement of the Venus music.
But at the name "Elizabeth" it dies away. The mists grow denser as the magic crew disappears,
and through them is seen a light upon the Wartburg. The tolling of bells and the songs of mourners
are heard as the cortége approaches. As Tannhäuser dies, the pilgrims' chorus again rises in
ecstasy, closing with a mighty shout of "Hallelujah!" and the curtain falls.

LOHENGRIN.

"Lohengrin," a romantic opera in three acts, words by the composer, was first produced at Weimar,
Aug. 28, 1850, the anniversary of Goethe's birthday, under the direction of Franz Liszt, and
with the following cast of the leading parts:--

  LOHENGRIN       Herr BECK.
  TELRAMUND       Herr MILDE.
  KING            Herr HOFER.
  ELSA            Frau AGATHE.
  ORTRUD          Fraülein FASTLINGER.

