One of Lockhart's signatures in Blackwood--a signature which, however, like others, was not,
I believe, peculiar to him--was "Zeta," and this Zeta assailed the Cockney school in a sufficiently
scorpion-like manner. Thereupon Scott's magazine, the London, retorted, attacking Lockhart
by name. On this Lockhart set out for London and, with a certain young Scotch barrister named
Christie as his second, challenged Scott. But Scott refused to fight, unless Lockhart would
deny that he was editor of Blackwood. Lockhart declared that Scott had no right to ask this,
and stigmatised him as a coward. He then published a statement, sending at the same time a
copy to Scott. In the published form the denial of editorship was made, in the one sent to
Scott it was omitted. Thereupon Scott called Lockhart a liar. Of this Lockhart took no notice,
but Christie his second did, and, an altercation taking place between them, Scott challenged
Christie and they went out, Scott's second being Mr. P. G. Patmore, Christie's Mr. Traill,
afterwards well known as a London police magistrate. Christie fired in the air, Scott fired
at Christie and missed. Thereupon Mr. Patmore demanded a second shot, which, I am informed,
could and should, by all laws of the duello, have been refused. Both principal and second on
the other side were, however, inexperienced and probably unwilling to baulk their adversaries.
Shots were again exchanged, Christie this time (as he can hardly be blamed for doing) taking
aim at his adversary and wounding him mortally. Patmore fled the country, Christie and Traill
took their trial and were acquitted.

I have elsewhere remarked that this deplorable result is said to have been brought on by errors
of judgment on the part of more than one person. Hazlitt, himself no duellist and even accused
of personal timidity, is said to have egged on Scott, and to have stung him by some remark
of his bitter tongue into challenging Christie, and there is no doubt that Patmore's conduct
was most reprehensible. But we are here concerned with Lockhart, not with them. As far as I
understand the imputations made on him, he is charged either with want of straightforwardness
in omitting part of his explanation in the copy sent to Scott, or with cowardice in taking
no notice of Scott's subsequent lie direct, or with both. Let us examine this.

At first sight the incident of what, from the most notorious action of Lord Clive, we may call
the "red and white treaties" seems odd. But it is to be observed, first, that Lockhart could
not be said to conceal from Scott what he published to all the world; secondly, that his conduct
was perfectly consistent throughout. He had challenged Scott, who had declined to go out. Having
offered his adversary satisfaction, he was not bound to let him take it with a proviso, or
to satisfy his private inquisitiveness. But if not under menace, but considering Scott after
his refusal as unworthy the notice of a gentleman, and not further to be taken into account,
he chose to inform the public of the truth, he had a perfect right to do so. And it is hardly
necessary to say that it was the truth that he was not editor of Blackwood.

