Failures in one direction have sometimes had the effect of forcing the farseeing student to
apply himself in another. Thus Prideaux's failure as a candidate for the post of parish-clerk
of Ugboro, in Devon, led to his applying himself to learning, and to his eventual elevation
to the bishopric of Worcester. When Boileau, educated for the bar, pleaded his first cause,
he broke down amidst shouts of laughter. He next tried the pulpit, and failed there too. And
then he tried poetry, and succeeded. Fontenelle and Voltaire both failed at the bar. So Cowper,
through his diffidence and shyness, broke down when pleading his first cause, though he lived
to revive the poetic art in England. Montesquieu and Bentham both failed as lawyers, and forsook
the bar for more congenial pursuits--the latter leaving behind him a treasury of legislative
procedure for all time. Goldsmith failed in passing as a surgeon; but he wrote the 'Deserted
Village' and the 'Vicar of Wakefield;' whilst Addison failed as a speaker, but succeeded in
writing 'Sir Roger de Coverley,' and his many famous papers in the 'Spectator.'

Even the privation of some important bodily sense, such as sight or hearing, has not been sufficient
to deter courageous men from zealously pursuing the struggle of life. Milton, when struck by
blindness, "still bore up and steered right onward." His greatest works were produced during
that period of his life in which he suffered most--when he was poor, sick, old, blind, slandered,
and persecuted.

The lives of some of the greatest men have been a continuous struggle with difficulty and apparent
defeat. Dante produced his greatest work in penury and exile. Banished from his native city
by the local faction to which he was opposed, his house was given up to plunder, and he was
sentenced in his absence to be burnt alive. When informed by a friend that he might return
to Florence, if he would consent to ask for pardon and absolution, he replied: "No! This is
not the way that shall lead me back to my country. I will return with hasty steps if you, or
any other, can open to me a way that shall not derogate from the fame or the honour of Dante;
but if by no such way Florence can be entered, then to Florence I shall never return." His
enemies remaining implacable, Dante, after a banishment of twenty years, died in exile. They
even pursued him after death, when his book, 'De Monarchia,' was publicly burnt at Bologna
by order of the Papal Legate.

Camoens also wrote his great poems mostly in banishment. Tired of solitude at Santarem, he
joined an expedition against the Moors, in which he distinguished himself by his bravery. He
lost an eye when boarding an enemy's ship in a sea-fight. At Goa, in the East Indies, he witnessed
with indignation the cruelty practised by the Portuguese on the natives, and expostulated with
the governor against it. He was in consequence banished from the settlement, and sent to China.
In the course of his subsequent adventures and misfortunes, Camoens suffered shipwreck, escaping
only with his life and the manuscript of his 'Lusiad.' Persecution and hardship seemed everywhere
to pursue him. At Macao he was thrown into prison. Escaping from it, he set sail for Lisbon,
where he arrived, after sixteen years' absence, poor and friendless. His 'Lusiad,' which was
shortly after published, brought him much fame, but no money. But for his old Indian slave
Antonio, who begged for his master in the streets, Camoens must have perished. [215] As it
was, he died in a public almshouse, worn out by disease and hardship. An inscription was placed
over his grave:--"Here lies Luis de Camoens: he excelled all the poets of his time: he lived
poor and miserable; and he died so, MDLXXIX." This record, disgraceful but truthful, has since
been removed; and a lying and pompous epitaph, in honour of the great national poet of Portugal,
has been substituted in its stead.

Even Michael Angelo was exposed, during the greater part of his life, to the persecutions of
the envious--vulgar nobles, vulgar priests, and sordid men of every degree, who could neither
sympathise with him, nor comprehend his genius. When Paul IV. condemned some of his work in
'The Last Judgment,' the artist observed that "The Pope would do better to occupy himself with
correcting the disorders and indecencies which disgrace the world, than with any such hypercriticisms
upon his art."

Tasso also was the victim of almost continual persecution and calumny. After lying in a madhouse
for seven years, he became a wanderer over Italy; and when on his deathbed, he wrote: "I will
not complain of the malignity of fortune, because I do not choose to speak of the ingratitude
of men who have succeeded in dragging me to the tomb of a mendicant."

But Time brings about strange revenges. The persecutors and the persecuted often change places;
it is the latter who are great--the former who are infamous. Even the names of the persecutors
would probably long ago have been forgotten, but for their connection with the history of the
men whom they have persecuted. Thus, who would now have known of Duke Alfonso of Ferrara, but
for his imprisonment of Tasso? Or, who would have heard of the existence of the Grand Duke
of Wurtemburg of some ninety years back, but for his petty persecution of Schiller?

The work of some of the greatest discoverers has been done in the midst of persecution, difficulty,
and suffering. Columbus, who discovered the New World and gave it as a heritage to the Old,
was in his lifetime persecuted, maligned, and plundered by those whom he had enriched. Mungo
Park's drowning agony in the African river he had discovered, but which he was not to live
to describe; Clapperton's perishing of fever on the banks of the great lake, in the heart of
the same continent, which was afterwards to be rediscovered and described by other explorers;
Franklin's perishing in the snow--it might be after he had solved the long-sought problem of
the North-west Passage--are among the most melancholy events in the history of enterprise and
genius.

The case of Flinders the navigator, who suffered a six years' imprisonment in the Isle of France,
was one of peculiar hardship. In 1801, he set sail from England in the INVESTIGATOR, on a voyage
of discovery and survey, provided with a French pass, requiring all French governors [21notwithstanding
that England and France were at war] to give him protection and succour in the sacred name
of science. In the course of his voyage he surveyed great part of Australia, Van Diemen's Land,
and the neighbouring islands. The INVESTIGATOR, being found leaky and rotten, was condemned,
and the navigator embarked as passenger in the PORPOISE for England, to lay the results of
his three years' labours before the Admiralty. On the voyage home the PORPOISE was wrecked
on a reef in the South Seas, and Flinders, with part of the crew, in an open boat, made for
Port Jackson, which they safely reached, though distant from the scene of the wreck not less
than 750 miles. There he procured a small schooner, the CUMBERLAND, no larger than a Gravesend
sailing-boat, and returned for the remainder of the crew, who had been left on the reef. Having
rescued them, he set sail for England, making for the Isle of France, which the CUMBERLAND
reached in a sinking condition, being a wretched little craft badly found. To his surprise,
he was made a prisoner with all his crew, and thrown into prison, where he was treated with
brutal harshness, his French pass proving no protection to him. What aggravated the horrors
of Flinders' confinement was, that he knew that Baudin, the French navigator, whom he had encountered
while making his survey of the Australian coasts, would reach Europe first, and claim the merit
of all the discoveries he had made. It turned out as he had expected; and while Flinders was
still imprisoned in the Isle of France, the French Atlas of the new discoveries was published,
all the points named by Flinders and his precursors being named afresh. Flinders was at length
liberated, after six years' imprisonment, his health completely broken; but he continued correcting
his maps, and writing out his descriptions to the last. He only lived long enough to correct
his final sheet for the press, and died on the very day that his work was published!

It was in prison that Boetius wrote his 'Consolations of Philosophy,' and Grotius his 'Commentary
on St. Matthew,' regarded as his masterwork in Biblical Criticism. Buchanan composed his beautiful
'Paraphrases on the Psalms' while imprisoned in the cell of a Portuguese monastery. Campanella,
the Italian patriot monk, suspected of treason, was immured for twenty-seven years in a Neapolitan
dungeon, during which, deprived of the sun's light, he sought higher light, and there created
his 'Civitas Solis,' which has been so often reprinted and reproduced in translations in most
European languages. During his thirteen years' imprisonment in the Tower, Raleigh wrote his
'History of the World,' a project of vast extent, of which he was only able to finish the first
five books. Luther occupied his prison hours in the Castle of Wartburg in translating the Bible,
and in writing the famous tracts and treatises with which he inundated all Germany.

It was to the circumstance of John Bunyan having been cast into gaol that we probably owe the
'Pilgrim's Progress.' He was thus driven in upon himself; having no opportunity for action,
his active mind found vent in earnest thinking and meditation; and indeed, after his enlargement,
his life as an author virtually ceased. His 'Grace Abounding' and the 'Holy War' were also
written in prison. Bunyan lay in Bedford Gaol, with a few intervals of precarious liberty,
during not less than twelve years; [217] and it was most probably to his prolonged imprisonment
that we owe what Macaulay has characterised as the finest allegory in the world.

All the political parties of the times in which Bunyan lived, imprisoned their opponents when
they had the opportunity and the power. Bunyan's prison experiences were principally in the
time of Charles II. But in the preceding reign of Charles I., as well as during the Commonwealth,
illustrious prisoners were very numerous. The prisoners of the former included Sir John Eliot,
Hampden, Selden, Prynne [218] [21a most voluminous prison-writer], and many more. It was while
under strict confinement in the Tower, that Eliot composed his noble treatise, 'The Monarchy
of Man.' George Wither, the poet, was another prisoner of Charles the First, and it was while
confined in the Marshalsea that he wrote his famous 'Satire to the King.' At the Restoration
he was again imprisoned in Newgate, from which he was transferred to the Tower, and he is supposed
by some to have died there.

The Commonwealth also had its prisoners. Sir William Davenant, because of his loyalty, was
for some time confined a prisoner in Cowes Castle, where he wrote the greater part of his poem
of 'Gondibert': and it is said that his life was saved principally through the generous intercession
of Milton. He lived to repay the debt, and to save Milton's life when "Charles enjoyed his
own again." Lovelace, the poet and cavalier, was also imprisoned by the Roundheads, and was
only liberated from the Gatehouse on giving an enormous bail. Though he suffered and lost all
for the Stuarts, he was forgotten by them at the Restoration, and died in extreme poverty.

Besides Wither and Bunyan, Charles II. imprisoned Baxter, Harrington [21the author of 'Oceana'],
Penn, and many more. All these men solaced their prison hours with writing. Baxter wrote some
of the most remarkable passages of his 'Life and Times' while lying in the King's Bench Prison;
and Penn wrote his 'No Cross no Crown' while imprisoned in the Tower. In the reign of Queen
Anne, Matthew Prior was in confinement on a vamped-up charge of treason for two years, during
which he wrote his 'Alma, or Progress of the Soul.'

Since then, political prisoners of eminence in England have been comparatively few in number.
Among the most illustrious were De Foe, who, besides standing three times in the pillory, spent
much of his time in prison, writing 'Robinson Crusoe' there, and many of his best political
pamphlets. There also he wrote his 'Hymn to the Pillory,' and corrected for the press a collection
of his voluminous writings. [219] Smollett wrote his 'Sir Lancelot Greaves' in prison, while
undergoing confinement for libel. Of recent prison-writers in England, the best known are James
Montgomery, who wrote his first volume of poems while a prisoner in York Castle; and Thomas
Cooper, the Chartist, who wrote his 'Purgatory of Suicide' in Stafford Gaol.

Silvio Pellico was one of the latest and most illustrious of the prison writers of Italy. He
lay confined in Austrian gaols for ten years, eight of which he passed in the Castle of Spielberg
in Moravia. It was there that he composed his charming 'Memoirs,' the only materials for which
were furnished by his fresh living habit of observation; and out of even the transient visits
of his gaoler's daughter, and the colourless events of his monotonous daily life, he contrived
to make for himself a little world of thought and healthy human interest.

Kazinsky, the great reviver of Hungarian literature, spent seven years of his life in the dungeons
of Buda, Brunne, Kufstein, and Munkacs, during which he wrote a 'Diary of his Imprisonment,'
and amongst other things translated Sterno's 'Sentimental Journey;' whilst Kossuth beguiled
his two years' imprisonment at Buda in studying English, so as to be able to read Shakspeare
in the original.

Men who, like these, suffer the penalty of law, and seem to fail, at least for a time, do not
really fail. Many, who have seemed to fail utterly, have often exercised a more potent and
enduring influence upon their race, than those whose career has been a course of uninterupted
success. The character of a man does not depend on whether his efforts are immediately followed
by failure or by success. The martyr is not a failure if the truth for which he suffered acquires
a fresh lustre through his sacrifice. [2110] The patriot who lays down his life for his cause,
may thereby hasten its triumph; and those who seem to throw their lives away in the van of
a great movement, often open a way for those who follow them, and pass over their dead bodies
to victory. The triumph of a just cause may come late; but when it does come, it is due as
much to those who failed in their first efforts, as to those who succeeded in their last.

The example of a great death may be an inspiration to others, as well as the example of a good
life. A great act does not perish with the life of him who performs it, but lives and grows
up into like acts in those who survive the doer thereof and cherish his memory. Of some great
men, it might almost be said that they have not begun to live until they have died.

The names of the men who have suffered in the cause of religion, of science, and of truth,
are the men of all others whose memories are held in the greatest esteem and reverence by mankind.
They perished, but their truth survived. They seemed to fail, and yet they eventually succeeded.
Men apparently useless and purposeless, when placed in positions of difficulty and responsibility,
have exhibited powers of character before unsuspected; and where we before saw only pliancy
and self-indulgence, we now see strength, valour, and self-denial.

As there are no blessings which may not be perverted into evils, so there are no trials which
may not be converted into blessings. All depends on the manner in which we profit by them or
otherwise. Perfect happiness is not to be looked for in this world. If it could be secured,
it would be found profitless. The hollowest of all gospels is the gospel of ease and comfort.
Difficulty, and even failure, are far better teachers. Sir Humphry Davy said: "Even in private
life, too much prosperity either injures the moral man, and occasions conduct which ends in
suffering; or it is accompanied by the workings of envy, calumny, and malevolence of others."

Failure improves tempers and strengthens the nature. Even sorrow is in some mysterious way
linked with joy and associated with tenderness. When surprise was expressed at the patience
of a poor Arabian woman under heavy affliction, she said, "When we look on God's face we do
not feel His hand."

Suffering is doubtless as divinely appointed as joy, while it is much more influential as a
discipline of character. It chastens and sweetens the nature, teaches patience and resignation,
and promotes the deepest as well as the most exalted thought.

Does any one suppose that Burns would have sung as he did, had he been rich, respectable, and
"kept a gig;" or Byron, if he had been a prosperous, happily-married Lord Privy Seal or Postmaster-General?

Sometimes a heartbreak rouses an impassive nature to life. "What does he know," said a sage,
"who has not suffered?" When Dumas asked Reboul, "What made you a poet?" his answer was, "Suffering!"
It was the death, first of his wife, and then of his child, that drove him into solitude for
the indulgence of his grief, and eventually led him to seek and find relief in verse. [2114]
It was also to a domestic affliction that we owe the beautiful writings of Mrs. Gaskell. "It
was as a recreation, in the highest sense of the word," says a recent writer, speaking from
personal knowledge, "as an escape from the great void of a life from which a cherished presence
had been taken, that she began that series of exquisite creations which has served to multiply
the number of our acquaintances, and to enlarge even the circle of our friendships." [2115]

Much of the best and most useful work done by men and women has been done amidst affliction--sometimes
as a relief from it, sometimes from a sense of duty overpowering personal sorrow. "If I had
not been so great an invalid," said Dr. Darwin to a friend, "I should not have done nearly
so much work as I have been able to accomplish." So Dr. Donne, speaking of his illnesses, once
said: "This advantage you and my other friends have by my frequent fevers is, that I am so
much the oftener at the gates of Heaven; and by the solitude and close imprisonment they reduce
me to, I am so much the oftener at my prayers, in which you and my other dear friends are not
forgotten." And poor Schubert, after his short but brilliant life, laid it down at the early
age of thirty-two; his sole property at his death consisting of his manuscripts, the clothes
he wore, and sixty-three florins in money. Some of Lamb's finest writings were produced amidst
deep sorrow, and Hood's apparent gaiety often sprang from a suffering heart. As he himself wrote,

      "There's not a string attuned to mirth,
       But has its chord in melancholy."

Again, in science, we have the noble instance of the suffering Wollaston, even in the last
stages of the mortal disease which afflicted him, devoting his numbered hours to putting on
record, by dictation, the various discoveries and improvements he had made, so that any knowledge
he had acquired, calculated to benefit his fellow-creatures, might not be lost.

Afflictions often prove but blessings in disguise. "Fear not the darkness," said the Persian
sage; it "conceals perhaps the springs of the waters of life." Experience is often bitter,
but wholesome; only by its teaching can we learn to suffer and be strong. Character, in its
highest forms, is disciplined by trial, and "made perfect through suffering." Even from the
deepest sorrow, the patient and thoughtful mind will gather richer wisdom than pleasure ever
yielded.

"The soul's dark cottage, batter'd and decayed, Lets in new light through chinks that Time
has made."

"Consider," said Jeremy Taylor, "that sad accidents, and a state of afflictions, is a school
of virtue. It reduces our spirits to soberness, and our counsels to moderation; it corrects
levity, and interrupts the confidence of sinning.... God, who in mercy and wisdom governs the
world, would never have suffered so many sadnesses, and have sent them, especially, to the
most virtuous and the wisest men, but that He intends they should be the seminary of comfort,
the nursery of virtue, the exercise of wisdom, the trial of patience, the venturing for a crown,
and the gate of glory." [2116]

And again:--"No man is more miserable than he that hath no adversity. That man is not tried,
whether he be good or bad; and God never crowns those virtues which are only FACULTIES and
DISPOSITIONS; but every act of virtue is an ingredient unto reward." [2117]

Prosperity and success of themselves do not confer happiness; indeed, it not unfrequently happens
that the least successful in life have the greatest share of true joy in it. No man could have
been more successful than Goethe--possessed of splendid health, honour, power, and sufficiency
of this world's goods--and yet he confessed that he had not, in the course of his life, enjoyed
five weeks of genuine pleasure. So the Caliph Abdalrahman, in surveying his successful reign
of fifty years, found that he had enjoyed only fourteen days of pure and genuine happiness.
[2118] After this, might it not be said that the pursuit of mere happiness is an illusion?
The eyes that are full of tears do not see; though in course of time they come to see more
clearly and brightly than those that have never known sorrow.

The wise person gradually learns not to expect too much from life. While he strives for success
by worthy methods, he will be prepared for failures, he will keep his mind open to enjoyment,
but submit patiently to suffering. Wailings and complainings of life are never of any use;
only cheerful and continuous working in right paths are of real avail.

Nor will the wise man expect too much from those about him. If he would live at peace with
others, he will bear and forbear. And even the best have often foibles of character which have
to be endured, sympathised with, and perhaps pitied. Who is perfect? Who does not suffer from
some thorn in the flesh? Who does not stand in need of toleration, of forbearance, of forgiveness?
What the poor imprisoned Queen Caroline Matilda of Denmark wrote on her chapel-window ought
to be the prayer of all,--"Oh! keep me innocent! make others great."

Then, how much does the disposition of every human being depend upon their innate constitution
and their early surroundings; the comfort or discomfort of the homes in which they have been
brought up; their inherited characteristics; and the examples, good or bad, to which they have
been exposed through life! Regard for such considerations should teach charity and forbearance
to all men.

At the same time, life will always be to a large extent what we ourselves make it. Each mind
makes its own little world. The cheerful mind makes it pleasant, and the discontented mind
makes it miserable. "My mind to me a kingdom is," applies alike to the peasant as to the monarch.
The one may be in his heart a king, as the other may be a slave. Life is for the most part
but the mirror of our own individual selves. Our mind gives to all situations, to all fortunes,
high or low, their real characters. To the good, the world is good; to the bad, it is bad.
If our views of life be elevated--if we regard it as a sphere of useful effort, of high living
and high thinking, of working for others' good as well as our own--it will be joyful, hopeful,
and blessed. If, on the contrary, we regard it merely as affording opportunities for self-seeking,
pleasure, and aggrandisement, it will be full of toil, anxiety, and disappointment.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 101: Sackville, Lord Buckhurst, Lord High Treasurer under Elizabeth and James I.]

[Footnote 102: 'Life of Perthes,' ii. He had the lowest opinion of his fellowmen. "Men are
hogs, who feed on gold," he once said: "Well, I throw them gold, and lead them whithersoever
I will." When the Abbe de Pradt, Archbishop of Malines, was setting out on his embassy to Poland
in 1812, Napoleon's parting instruction to him was, "Tenez bonne table et soignez les femmes,"--of
which Benjamin Constant said that such an observation, addressed to a feeble priest of sixty,
shows Buonaparte's profound contempt for the human race, without distinction of nation or sex.]

[Footnote 1011: Condensed from Sir Thomas Overbury's 'Characters' [101614].]

[Footnote 1012: 'History of the Peninsular War,' v. 319.--Napier mentions another striking
illustration of the influence of personal qualities in young Edward Freer, of the same regiment
[10the 43rd], who, when he fell at the age of nineteen, at the Battle of the Nivelle, had already
seen more combats and sieges than he could count years. "So slight in person, and of such surpassing
beauty, that the Spaniards often thought him a girl disguised in man's clothing, he was yet
so vigorous, so active, so brave, that the most daring and experienced veterans watched his
looks on the field of battle, and, implicitly following where he led, would, like children,
obey his slightest sign in the most difficult situations."]

[Footnote 1013: When the dissolution of the Union at one time seemed imminent, and Washington
wished to retire into private life, Jefferson wrote to him, urging his continuance in office.
"The confidence of the whole Union," he said, "centres in you. 118.)]

[Footnote 1019: Moore's 'Life of Byron,' 8vo. ed. p.484.--Dante was a religious as well as
a political reformer. He was a reformer three hundred years before the Reformation, advocating
the separation of the spiritual from the civil power, and declaring the temporal government
of the Pope to be a usurpation. The following memorable words were written over five hundred
and sixty years ago, while Dante was still a member of the Roman Catholic Church:--"Every Divine
law is found in one or other of the two Testaments; but in neither can I find that the care
of temporal matters was given to the priesthood. On the contrary, I find that the first priests
were removed from them by law, and the later priests, by command of Christ, to His disciples."--DE
MONARCHIA, lib. iii. cap. xi.

Dante also, still clinging to 'the Church he wished to reform,' thus anticipated the fundamental
doctrine of the Reformation:-"Before the Church are the Old and New Testament; after the Church
are traditions. It follows, then, that the authority of the Church depends, not on traditions,
but traditions on the Church."]

[Footnote 1020: 'Blackwood's Magazine,' June, 1863, art. 'Girolamo Savonarola.']

[Footnote 1021: One of the last passages in the Diary of Dr. Arnold, written the year before
his death, was as follows:--"It is the misfortune of France that her 'past' cannot be loved
or respected--her future and her present cannot be wedded to it; yet how can the present yield
fruit, or the future have promise, except their roots be fixed in the past? The evil is infinite,
but the blame rests with those who made the past a dead thing, out of which no healthful life
could be produced."--LIFE, ii. 387-8, Ed. 1858.]

[Footnote 1022: A public orator lately spoke with contempt of the Battle of Marathon, because
only 192 perished on the side of the Athenians, whereas by improved mechanism and destructive
chemicals, some 50,000 men or more may now be destroyed within a few hours. Yet the Battle
of Marathon, and the heroism displayed in it, will probably continue to be remembered when
the gigantic butcheries of modern times have been forgotten.]

[Footnote 111: Civic virtues, unless they have their origin and consecration in private and
domestic virtues, are but the virtues of the theatre. He who has not a loving heart for his
child, cannot pretend to have any true love for humanity.--Jules Simon's LE DEVOIR.]

[Footnote 112: 'Levana; or, The Doctrine of Education.']

[Footnote 113: Speaking of the force of habit, St. Augustine says in his 'Confessions' "My
will the enemy held, and thence had made a chain for me, and bound me. For of a froward will
was a lust made; and a lust served became custom; and custom not resisted became necessity.
By which links, as it were, joined together [11whence I called it a chain] a hard bondage held
me enthralled."]

[Footnote 114: Mr. Tufnell, in 'Reports of Inspectors of Parochial School Unions in England
and Wales,' 1850.]

[Footnote 115: See the letters [11January 13th, 16th, 18th, 20th, and 23rd, 1759], written
by Johnson to his mother when she was ninety, and he himself was in his fiftieth year.--Crokers
BOSWELL, 8vo. Ed. pp. 113, 114.]

[Footnote 116: Jared Sparks' 'Life of Washington.']

[Footnote 117: Forster's 'Eminent British Statesmen' [11Cabinet Cyclop.] vi. 8.]

[Footnote 118: The Earl of Mornington, composer of 'Here in cool grot,' &c.]

[Footnote 119: Robert Bell's 'Life of Canning,' p. 37.]

[Footnote 1110: 'Life of Curran,' by his son, p. 4.]

[Footnote 1111: The father of the Wesleys had even determined at one time to abandon his wife
because her conscience forbade her to assent to his prayers for the then reigning monarch,
and he was only saved from the consequences of his rash resolve by the accidental death of
William III. 1. 23.]

[Footnote 1119: That about one-third of all the children born in this country die under five
years of age, can only he attributable to ignorance of the natural laws, ignorance of the human
constitution, and ignorance of the uses of pure air, pure water, and of the art of preparing
and administering wholesome food. There is no such mortality amongst the lower animals.]

[Footnote 1120: Beaumarchais' 'Figaro,' which was received with such enthusiasm in France shortly
before the outbreak of the Revolution, may be regarded as a typical play; it represented the
average morality of the upper as well as the lower classes with respect to the relations between
the sexes. "Label men how you please," says Herbert Spencer, "with titles of 'upper' and 'middle'
and 'lower,' you cannot prevent them from being units of the same society, acted upon by the
same spirit of the age, moulded after the same type of character. The mechanical law, that
action and reaction are equal, has its moral analogue. The deed of one man to another tends
ultimately to produce a like effect upon both, be the deed good or bad. Do but put them in
relationship, and no division into castes, no differences of wealth, can prevent men from assimilating....
The same influences which rapidly adapt the individual to his society, ensure, though by a
slower process, the general uniformity of a national character.... And so long as the assimilating
influences productive of it continue at work, it is folly to suppose any one grade of a community
can be morally different from the rest. In whichever rank you see corruption, be assured it
equally pervades all ranks--be assured it is the symptom of a bad social diathesis. Whilst
the virus of depravity exists in one part of the body-politic, no other part can remain healthy."--SOCIAL
STATICS, chap. xx. 7.]

[Footnote 1121: Some twenty-eight years since, the author wrote and published the following
passage, not without practical knowledge of the subject; and notwithstanding the great amelioration
in the lot of factory-workers, effected mainly through the noble efforts of Lord Shaftesbury,
the description is still to a large extent true:--"The factory system, however much it may
have added to the wealth of the country, has had a most deleterious effect on the domestic
condition of the people. It has invaded the sanctuary of home, and broken up family and social
ties. It has taken the wife from the husband, and the children from their parents. Especially
has its tendency been to lower the character of woman. The performance of domestic duties is
her proper office,--the management of her household, the rearing of her family, the economizing
of the family means, the supplying of the family wants. But the factory takes her from all
these duties. Homes become no longer homes. Children grow up uneducated and neglected. The
finer affections become blunted. Woman is no more the gentle wife, companion, and friend of
man, but his fellow-labourer and fellow-drudge. She is exposed to influences which too often
efface that modesty of thought and conduct which is one of the best safeguards of virtue. Without
judgment or sound principles to guide them, factory-girls early acquire the feeling of independence.
Ready to throw off the constraint imposed on them by their parents, they leave their homes,
and speedily become initiated in the vices of their associates. The atmosphere, physical as
well as moral, in which they live, stimulates their animal appetites; the influence of bad
example becomes contagious among them and mischief is propagated far and wide."--THE UNION,
January, 1843.]

[Footnote 1122: A French satirist, pointing to the repeated PLEBISCITES and perpetual voting
of late years, and to the growing want of faith in anything but votes, said, in 1870, that
we seemed to be rapidly approaching the period when the only prayer of man and woman would
be, "Give us this day our daily vote!"]

[Footnote 1123: "Of primeval and necessary and absolute superiority, the relation of the mother
to the child is far more complete, though less seldom quoted as an example, than that of father
and son.... By Sir Robert Filmer, the supposed necessary as well as absolute power of the father
over his children, was taken as the foundation and origin, and thence justifying cause, of
the power of the monarch in every political state. With more propriety he might have stated
the absolute dominion of a woman as the only legitimate form of government."--DEONTOLOGY, ii. 181.]

[Footnote 121: 'Letters of Sir Charles Bell,' p. 10. [122: 'Autobiography of Mary Anne Schimmelpenninck,'
p. 179.]

[Footnote 123: Dean Stanley's 'Life of Dr. Arnold,' i. 151 [12Ed. 1858].]

[Footnote 124: Lord Cockburn's 'Memorials,' pp. 25-6.]

[Footnote 125: From a letter of Canon Moseley, read at a Memorial Meeting held shortly after
the death of the late Lord Herbert of Lea.]

[Footnote 126: Izaak Walton's 'Life of George Herbert.']

[Footnote 127: Stanley's 'Life and Letters of Dr. Arnold,' i. 33.]

[Footnote 128: Philip de Comines gives a curious illustration of the subservient, though enforced,
imitation of Philip, Duke of Burgundy, by his courtiers. When that prince fell ill, and had
his head shaved, he ordered that all his nobles, five hundred in number, should in like manner
shave their heads; and one of them, Pierre de Hagenbach, to prove his devotion, no sooner caught
sight of an unshaven nobleman, than he forthwith had him seized and carried off to the barber!--Philip
de Comines [12Bohn's Ed.], p. 243.]

[Footnote 129: 'Life,' i. 344.]

[Footnote 1210: Introduction to 'The Principal Speeches and Addresses of H.R.H. the Prince
Consort,' p. 33.]

[Footnote 1211: Speech at Liverpool, 1812.]

[Footnote 131:In the third chapter of his Natural History, Pliny relates in what high honour
agriculture was held in the earlier days of Rome; how the divisions of land were measured by
the quantity which could be ploughed by a yoke of oxen in a certain time [13JUGERUM, in one
day; ACTUS, at one spell]; how the greatest recompence to a general or valiant citizen was
a JUGERUM; how the earliest surnames were derived from agriculture (Pilumnus, from PILUM, the
pestle for pounding corn; Piso, from PISO, to grind coin; Fabius, from FABA, a bean; Lentulus,
from LENS, a lentil; Cicero, from CICER, a chickpea; Babulcus, from BOS, &c.); how the highest
compliment was to call a man a good agriculturist, or a good husbandman (LOCUPLES, rich, LOCI
PLENUS, PECUNIA, from PECUS, &c.); how the pasturing of cattle secretly by night upon unripe
crops was a capital offence, punishable by hanging; how the rural tribes held the foremost
rank, while those of the city had discredit thrown upon them as being an indolent race; and
how "GLORIAM DENIQUE IPSAM, A FARRIS HONORE, 'ADOREAM' APPELLABANT;" ADOREA, or Glory, the
reward of valour, being derived from Ador, or spelt, a kind of grain.]

[Footnote 132: 'Essay on Government,' in 'Encyclopaedia Britannica.']

[Footnote 133: Burton's 'Anatomy of Melancholy,' Part i., Mem. 2, Sub. 6.]

[Footnote 134: Ibid. End of concluding chapter.]

[Footnote 135: It is characteristic of the Hindoos to regard entire inaction as the most perfect
state, and to describe the Supreme Being as "The Unmoveable."]

[Footnote 136: Lessing was so impressed with the conviction that stagnant satisfaction was
fatal to man, that he went so far as to say: "If the All-powerful Being, holding in one hand
Truth, and in the other the search for Truth, said to me, 'Choose,' I would answer Him, 'O
All-powerful, keep for Thyself the Truth; but leave to me the search for it, which is the better
for me.'" On the other hand, Bossuet said: "Si je concevais une nature purement intelligente,
il me semble que je n'y mettrais qu'entendre et aimer la verite, et que cela seul la rendrait
heureux."]

[Footnote 137: The late Sir John Patteson, when in his seventieth year, attended an annual
ploughing-match dinner at Feniton, Devon, at which he thought it worth his while to combat
the notion, still too prevalent, that because a man does not work merely with his bones and
muscles, he is therefore not entitled to the appellation of a workingman. "In recollecting
similar meetings to the present," he said, "I remember my friend, John Pyle, rather throwing
it in my teeth that I had not worked for nothing; but I told him, 'Mr. Pyle, you do not know
what you are talking about. We are all workers. The man who ploughs the field and who digs
the hedge is a worker; but there are other workers in other stations of life as well. For myself,
I can say that I have been a worker ever since I have been a boy.'... Then I told him that
the office of judge was by no means a sinecure, for that a judge worked as hard as any man
in the country. He has to work at very difficult questions of law, which are brought before
him continually, giving him great anxiety; and sometimes the lives of his fellow-creatures
are placed in his hands, and are dependent very much upon the manner in which he places the
facts before the jury. That is a matter of no little anxiety, I can assure you. Let any man
think as he will, there is no man who has been through the ordeal for the length of time that
I have, but must feel conscious of the importance and gravity of the duty which is cast upon
a judge."]

[Footnote 138: Lord Stanley's Address to the Students of Glasgow University, on his installation
as Lord Rector, 1869.]

[Footnote 139: Writing to an abbot at Nuremberg, who had sent him a store of turning-tools,
Luther said: "I have made considerable progress in clockmaking, and I am very much delighted
at it, for these drunken Saxons need to be constantly reminded of what the real time is; not
that they themselves care much about it, for as long as their glasses are kept filled, they
trouble themselves very little as to whether clocks, or clockmakers, or the time itself, go
right."--Michelet's LUTHER [13Bogue Ed.], p. 200.]

[Footnote 1310: "Life of Perthes," ii. 20.]

[Footnote 1311: Lockhart's 'Life of Scott' [138vo. Ed.], p. 442.]

[Footnote 1312: Southey expresses the opinion in 'The Doctor', that the character of a person
may be better known by the letters which other persons write to him than by what he himself
writes.]

[Footnote 1313: 'Dissertation on the Science of Method.']

[Footnote 1314: The following passage, from a recent article in the PALL MALL GAZETTE, will
commend itself to general aproval:--"There can be no question nowadays, that application to
work, absorption in affairs, contact with men, and all the stress which business imposes on
us, gives a noble training to the intellect, and splendid opportunity for discipline of character.
It is an utterly low view of business which regards it as only a means of getting a living.
A man's business is his part of the world's work, his share of the great activities which render
society possible. He may like it or dislike it, but it is work, and as such requires application,
self-denial, discipline. It is his drill, and he cannot be thorough in his occupation without
putting himself into it, checking his fancies, restraining his impulses, and holding himself
to the perpetual round of small details--without, in fact, submitting to his drill. But the
perpetual call on a man's readiness, sell-control, and vigour which business makes, the constant
appeal to the intellect, the stress upon the will, the necessity for rapid and responsible
exercise of judgment--all these things constitute a high culture, though not the highest. It
is a culture which strengthens and invigorates if it does not refine, which gives force if
not polish--the FORTITER IN RE, if not the SUAVITER IN MODO. It makes strong men and ready
men, and men of vast capacity for affairs, though it does not necessarily make refined men
or gentlemen."]

[Footnote 1315: On the first publication of his 'Despatches,' one of his friends said to him,
on reading the records of his Indian campaigns: "It seems to me, Duke, that your chief business
in India was to procure rice and bullocks." "And so it was," replied Wellington: "for if I
had rice and bullocks, I had men; and if I had men, I knew I could beat the enemy."]

[Footnote 1316: Maria Edgeworth, 'Memoirs of R. L. Edgeworth,' ii. 94.]

[Footnote 1317: A friend of Lord Palmerston has communicated to us the following anecdote.
Asking him one day when he considered a man to be in the prime of life, his immediate reply
was, "Seventy-nine!" "But," he added, with a twinkle in his eye, "as I have just entered my
eightieth year, perhaps I am myself a little past it."]

[Footnote 1318: 'Reasons of Church Government,' Book II.]

[Footnote 1319: Coleridge's advice to his young friends was much to the same effect. Thereupon
Thales had a mind, for the jest's sake, to show them the contrary; and having upon this occasion
for once made a muster of all his wits, wholly to employ them in the service of profit, he
set a traffic on foot, which in one year brought him in so great riches, that the most experienced
in that trade could hardly in their whole lives, with all their industry, have raked so much
together. --Montaignes ESSAYS, Book I., chap. 24.]

[Footnote 1323: "The understanding," says Mr. Bailey, "that is accustomed to pursue a regular
and connected train of ideas, becomes in some measure incapacitated for those quick and versatile
movements which are learnt in the commerce of the world, and are indispensable to those who
act a part in it. Deep thinking and practical talents require indeed habits of mind so essentially
dissimilar, that while a man is striving after the one, he will be unavoidably in danger of
losing the other." "Thence," he adds, "do we so often find men, who are 'giants in the closet,'
prove but 'children in the world.'"--'Essays on the Formation and Publication of Opinions,'
pp.251-3.]

[Footnote 1324: Mr. Gladstone is as great an enthusiast in literature as Canning was. It is
related of him that, while he was waiting in his committee-room at Liverpool for the returns
coming in on the day of the South Lancashire polling, he occupied himself in proceeding with
the translation of a work which he was then preparing for the press.]

[Footnote 141: James Russell Lowell.]

[Footnote 142: Yet Bacon himself had written, "I would rather believe all the faiths in the
Legend, and the Talmud, and the Alcoran, than that this universal frame is without a mind."]

[Footnote 143: Aubrey, in his 'Natural History of Wiltshire,' alluding to Harvey, says: "He
told me himself that upon publishing that book he fell in his practice extremely."]

[Footnote 144: Sir Thomas More's first wife, Jane Colt, was originally a young country girl,
whom he himself instructed in letters, and moulded to his own tastes and manners. She died
young, leaving a son and three daughters, of whom the noble Margaret Roper most resembled More
himself. His second wife was Alice Middleton, a widow, some seven years older than More, not
beautiful--for he characterized her as "NEC BELLA, NEC PUELLA"--but a shrewd worldly woman,
not by any means disposed to sacrifice comfort and good cheer for considerations such as those
which so powerfully influenced the mind of her husband.]

[Footnote 145: Before being beheaded, Eliot said, "Death is but a little word; but ''tis a
great work to die.'" In his 'Prison Thoughts' before his execution, he wrote: "He that fears
not to die, fears nothing.... There is a time to live, and a time to die. A good death is far
better and more eligible than an ill life. A wise man lives but so long as his life is worth
more than his death. The longer life is not always the better."]

[Footnote 146: Mr. J. S. Mill, in his book 'On Liberty,' describes "the masses," as "collective
mediocrity." "The initiation of all wise or noble things," he says, "comes, and must come,
from individuals--generally at first from some one individual. The honour and glory of the
average man is that he is capable of following that imitation; that he can respond internally
to wise and noble things, and be led to them with his eyes open.... In this age, the mere example
of nonconformity, the mere refusal to bend the knee to custom, is itself a service. Precisely
because the tyranny of opinion is such as to make eccentricity a reproach, it is desirable,
in order to break through that tyranny, that people should be eccentric. Eccentricity has always
abounded when and where strength of character has abounded; and the amount of eccentricity
in a society has generally been proportional to the amount of genius, mental vigour, and moral
courage which it contained. That so few now dare to be eccentric, marks the chief danger of
the time."--Pp. 120-1.]

[Footnote 147: Mr. Arthur Helps, in one of his thoughtful books, published in 1845, made some
observations on this point, which are not less applicable now. He there said: "it is a grievous
thing to see literature made a vehicle for encouraging the enmity of class to class. Yet this,
unhappily, is not unfrequent now. Some great man summed up the nature of French novels by calling
them the Literature of Despair; the kind of writing that I deprecate may be called the Literature
of Envy.... Such writers like to throw their influence, as they might say, into the weaker
scale. But that is not the proper way of looking at the matter. I think, if they saw the ungenerous
nature of their proceedings, that alone would stop them. They should recollect that literature
may fawn upon the masses as well as the aristocracy; and in these days the temptation is in
the former direction. But what is most grievous in this kind of writing is the mischief it
may do to the working-people themselves. If you have their true welfare at heart, you will
not only care for their being fed and clothed, but you will be anxious not to encourage unreasonable
expectations in them--not to make them ungrateful or greedy-minded. Above all, you will be
solicitous to preserve some self-reliance in them. You will be careful not to let them think
that their condition can be wholly changed without exertion of their own. You would not desire
to have it so changed. Once elevate your ideal of what you wish to happen amongst the labouring
population, and you will not easily admit anything in your writings that may injure their moral
or their mental character, even if you thought it might hasten some physical benefit for them.
That is the way to make your genius most serviceable to mankind. However, on opening his purse
it was empty of silver, and he had to make amends by promising to meet his little friend in
the same spot at the same hour next day, and to bring the sixpence with him, bidding her, meanwhile,
tell her mother she had seen a gentleman who would bring her the money for the bowl next day.
The child, entirely trusting him, went on her way comforted. On his return home he found an
invitation awaiting him to dine in Bath the following evening, to meet some one whom he specially
wished to see. He hesitated for some little time, trying to calculate the possibility of giving
the meeting to his little friend of the broken bowl and of still being in time for the dinner-party
in Bath; but finding this could not be, he wrote to decline accepting the invitation on the
plea of 'a pre-engagement,' saying to us, 'I cannot disappoint her, she trusted me so implicitly.'"]

[Footnote 1411: Miss Florence Nightingale has related the following incident as having occurred
before Sebastopol:--"I remember a sergeant who, on picket, the rest of the picket killed and
himself battered about the head, stumbled back to camp, and on his way picked up a wounded
man and brought him in on his shoulders to the lines, where he fell down insensible. When,
after many hours, he recovered his senses, I believe after trepanning, his first words were
to ask after his comrade, 'Is he alive?' 'Comrade, indeed; yes, he's alive--it is the general.'
At that moment the general, though badly wounded, appeared at the bedside. 'Oh, general, it's
you, is it, I brought in? I'm so glad; I didn't know your honour. But, ----, if I'd known it
was you, I'd have saved you all the same.' This is the true soldier's spirit."

In the same letter, Miss Nightingale says: "England, from her grand mercantile and commercial
successes, has been called sordid; God knows she is not. The simple courage, the enduring patience,
the good sense, the strength to suffer in silence--what nation shows more of this in war than
is shown by her commonest soldier? I have seen men dying of dysentery, but scorning to report
themselves sick lest they should thereby throw more labour on their comrades, go down to the
trenches and make the trenches their deathbed. There is nothing in history to compare with it...."]

"Say what men will, there is something more truly Christian in the man who gives his time,
his strength, his life, if need be, for something not himself--whether he call it his Queen,
his country, or his colours--than in all the asceticism, the fasts, the humiliations, and confessions
which have ever been made: and this spirit of giving one's life, without calling it a sacrifice,
is found nowhere so truly as in England."]

[Footnote 1412: Mrs. Grote's 'Life of Ary Scheffer,' pp. 154-5.]

[Footnote 1413: The sufferings of this noble woman, together with those of her unfortunate
husband, were touchingly described in a letter afterwards addressed by her to a female friend,
which was published some years ago at Haarlem, entitled, 'Gertrude von der Wart; or, Fidelity
unto Death.' Mrs. Hemans wrote a poem of great pathos and beauty, commemorating the sad story
in her 'Records of Woman.']

[Footnote 151: 'Social Statics,' p. 185.]

[Footnote 152: "In all cases," says Jeremy Bentham, "when the power of the will can be exercised
over the thoughts, let those thoughts be directed towards happiness. Look out for the bright,
for the brightest side of things, and keep your face constantly turned to it.... A large part
of existence is necessarily passed in inaction. By day [15to take an instance from the thousand
in constant recurrence], when in attendance on others, and time is lost by being kept waiting;
by night when sleep is unwilling to close the eyelids, the economy of happiness recommends
the occupation of pleasurable thought. In walking abroad, or in resting at home, the mind cannot
be vacant; its thoughts may be useful, useless, or pernicious to happiness. Direct them aright;
the habit of happy thought will spring up like any other habit." DEONTOLOGY, ii. 105-6.]

[Footnote 153: The following extract from a letter of M. Boyd, Esq., is given by Earl Stanhope
in his 'Miscellanies':--"There was a circumstance told me by the late Mr. Christmas, who for
many years held an important official situation in the Bank of England. He was, I believe,
in early life a clerk in the Treasury, or one of the government offices, and for some time
acted for Mr. Pitt as his confidential clerk, or temporary private secretary. Christmas was
one of the most obliging men I ever knew; and, from the, position he occupied, was constantly
exposed to interruptions, yet I never saw his temper in the least ruffled. One day I found
him more than usually engaged, having a mass of accounts to prepare for one of the law-courts--still
the same equanimity, and I could not resist the opportunity of asking the old gentleman the
secret. 'Well, Mr. Boyd, you shall know it. Mr. Pitt gave it to me:--NOT TO LOSE MY TEMPER,
IF POSSIBLE, AT ANY TIME, AND NEVER DURING THE HOURS OF BUSINESS. My labours here [15Bank of
England] commence at nine and end at three; and, acting on the advice of the illustrious statesman,
I NEVER LOSE MY TEMPER DURING THOSE HOURS.'"]

[Footnote 154: 'Strafford Papers,' i. 87.]

[Footnote 155: Jared Sparks' 'Life of Washington,' pp. 7, 534.]

[Footnote 156: Brialmont's 'Life of Wellington.']

[Footnote 157: Professor Tyndall, on 'Faraday as a Discoverer,' p. 156.]

[Footnote 158: 'Life of Perthes,' ii. 216.]

[Footnote 159: Lady Elizabeth Carew.]

[Footnote 1510: Francis Horner, in one of his letters, says: "It is among the very sincere
and zealous friends of liberty that you will find the most perfect specimens of wrongheadedness;
men of a dissenting, provincial cast of virtue--who [15according to one of Sharpe's favourite
phrases] WILL drive a wedge the broad end foremost--utter strangers to all moderation in political
business."--Francis Horner's LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE [151843], ii. 133.]

[Footnote 1511: Professor Tyndall on 'Faraday as a Discoverer,' pp. 40-1.]

[Footnote 1512: Yet Burke himself; though capable of giving Barry such excellent advice, was
by no means immaculate as regarded his own temper. When he lay ill at Beaconsfield, Fox, from
whom he had become separated by political differences arising out of the French Revolution,
went down to see his old friend. But Burke would not grant him an interview; he positively
refused to see him. On his return to town, Fox told his friend Coke the result of his journey;
and when Coke lamented Burke's obstinacy, Fox only replied, goodnaturedly: "Ah! never mind,
Tom; I always find every Irishman has got a piece of potato in his head." Yet Fox, with his
usual generosity, when he heard of Burke's impending death, wrote a most kind and cordial letter
to Mrs. Burke, expressive of his grief and sympathy; and when Burke was no more, Fox was the
first to propose that he should be interred with public honours in Westminster Abbey--which
only Burke's own express wish, that he should be buried at Beaconsfield, prevented being carried
out.]

[Footnote 1513: When Curran, the Irish barrister, visited Burns's cabin in 1810, he found it
converted into a public house, and the landlord who showed it was drunk. "There," said he,
pointing to a corner on one side of the fire, with a most MALAPROPOS laugh-"there is the very
spot where Robert Burns was born." "The genius and the fate of the man," says Curran, "were
already heavy on my heart; but the drunken laugh of the landlord gave me such a view of the
rock on which he had foundered, that I could not stand it, but burst into tears."]

[Footnote 1514: The chaplain of Horsemongerlane Gaol, in his annual report to the Surrey justices,
thus states the result of his careful study of the causes of dishonesty: "From my experience
of predatory crime, founded upon careful study of the character of a great variety of prisoners,
I conclude that habitual dishonesty is to be referred neither to ignorance, nor to drunkenness,
nor to poverty, nor to overcrowding in towns, nor to temptation from surrounding wealth--nor,
indeed, to any one of the many indirect causes to which it is sometimes referred--but mainly
TO A DISPOSITION TO ACQUIRE PROPERTY WITH A LESS DEGREE OF LABOUR THAN ORDINARY INDUSTRY."
The italics are the author's.]

[Footnote 1515: S. C. Hall's 'Memories.']

[Footnote 1516: Moore's 'Life of Byron,' 8vo. Ed., p. 182.]

[Footnote 1517: Captain Basil Hall records the following conversation with Scott:-"It occurs
to me," I observed, "that people are apt to make too much fuss about the loss of fortune, which
is one of the smallest of the great evils of life, and ought to be among the most tolerable."--"Do
you call it a small misfortune to be ruined in money-matters?" he asked. "It is not so painful,
at all events, as the loss of friends."--"I grant that," he said. "As the loss of character?"--"True
again." "As the loss of health?"--"Ay, there you have me," he muttered to himself, in a tone
so melancholy that I wished I had not spoken. "What is the loss of fortune to the loss of peace
of mind?" I continued. "In short," said he, playfully, "you will make it out that there is
no harm in a man's being plunged over-head-and-ears in a debt he cannot remove." "Much depends,
I think, on how it was incurred, and what efforts are made to redeem it--at least, if the sufferer
be a rightminded man." "I hope it does," he said, cheerfully and firmly.--FRAGMENTS OF VOYAGES
AND TRAVELS, 3rd series, pp. 308-9.]

[Footnote 1518: "These battles," he wrote in his Diary, "have been the death of many a man,
I think they will be mine."]

[Footnote 1519: Scott's Diary, December 17th, 1827.]

[Footnote 161: From Lovelace's lines to Lucusta [16Lucy Sacheverell], 'Going to the Wars.']

[Footnote 162: Amongst other great men of genius, Ariosto and Michael Angelo devoted to her
their service and their muse.]

[Footnote 163: See the Rev. F. W. Farrar's admirable book, entitled 'Seekers after God' [16Sunday
Library]. The author there says: "Epictetus was not a Christian. He has only once alluded to
the Christians in his works, and then it is under the opprobrious title of 'Galileans,' who
practised a kind of insensibility in painful circumstances, and an indifference to worldly
interests, which Epictetus unjustly sets down to 'mere habit.' Unhappily, it was not granted
to these heathen philosophers in any true sense to know what Christianity was. They thought
that it was an attempt to imitate the results of philosophy, without having passed through
the necessary discipline. They viewed it with suspicion, they treated it with injustice. And
yet in Christianity, and in Christianity alone, they would have found an ideal which would
have surpassed their loftiest anticipations."]

[Footnote 164: Sparks' 'Life of Washington,' pp. 141-2.]

[Footnote 165: Wellington, like Washington, had to pay the penalty of his adherence to the
cause he thought right, in his loss of "popularity." He was mobbed in the streets of London,
and had his windows smashed by the mob, while his wife lay dead in the house. Sir Walter Scott
also was hooted and pelted at Hawick by "the people," amidst cries of "Burke Sir Walter!"]

[Footnote 166: Robertson's 'Life and Letters,' ii. 157.]

[Footnote 167: We select the following passages from this remarkable report of Baron Stoffel,
as being of more than merely temporary interest:--Who that has lived here [16Berlin] will deny
that the Prussians are energetic, patriotic, and teeming with youthful vigour; that they are
not corrupted by sensual pleasures, but are manly, have earnest convictions, do not think it
beneath them to reverence sincerely what is noble and lofty? What a melancholy contrast does
France offer in all this? The theatres have become schools of shamelessness and obscenity.
Drop by drop, poison is instilled into the very core of an ignorant and enervated society,
which has neither the insight nor the energy left to amend its institutions, nor--which would
be the most necessary step to take--become better informed or more moral. One after the other
the fine qualities of the nation are dying out. Where is the generosity, the loyalty, the charm
of our ESPRIT, and our former elevation of soul? If this goes on, the time will come when this
noble race of France will be known only by its faults. And France has no idea that while she
is sinking, more earnest nations are stealing the march upon her, are distancing her on the
road to progress, and are preparing for her a secondary position in the world.

"I am afraid that these opinions will not be relished in France. However correct, they differ
too much from what is usually said and asserted at home. I should wish some enlightened and
unprejudiced Frenchmen to come to Prussia and make this country their study. They would soon
discover that they were living in the midst of a strong, earnest, and intelligent nation, entirely
destitute, it is true, of noble and delicate feelings, of all fascinating charms, but endowed
with every solid virtue, and alike distinguished for untiring industry, order, and economy,
as well as for patriotism, a strong sense of duty, and that consciousness of personal dignity
which in their case is so happily blended with respect for authority and obedience to the law.
They would see a country with firm, sound, and moral institutions, whose upper classes are
worthy of their rank, and, by possessing the highest degree of culture, devoting themselves
to the service of the State, setting an example of patriotism, and knowing how to preserve
the influence legitimately their own. They would find a State with an excellent administration
where everything is in its right place, and where the most admirable order prevails in every
branch of the social and political system. Prussia may be well compared to a massive structure
of lofty proportions and astounding solidity, which, though it has nothing to delight the eye
or speak to the heart, cannot but impress us with its grand symmetry, equally observable in
its broad foundations as in its strong and sheltering roof.

"And what is France? What is French society in these latter days? A hurly-burly of disorderly
elements, all mixed and jumbled together; a country in which everybody claims the right to
occupy the highest posts, yet few remember that a man to be employed in a responsible position
ought to have a well-balanced mind, ought to be strictly moral, to know something of the world,
and possess certain intellectual powers; a country in which the highest offices are frequently
held by ignorant and uneducated persons, who either boast some special talent, or whose only
claim is social position and some versatility and address. What a baneful and degrading state
of things! And how natural that, while it lasts, France should be full of a people without
a position, without a calling, who do not know what to do with themselves, but are none the
less eager to envy and malign every one who does....

"The French do not possess in any very marked degree the qualities required to render general
conscription acceptable, or to turn it to account. Conceited and egotistic as they are, the
people would object to an innovation whose invigorating force they are unable to comprehend,
and which cannot be carried out without virtues which they do not possess--self-abnegation,
conscientious recognition of duty, and a willingness to sacrifice personal interests to the
loftier demands of the country. As the character of individuals is only improved by experience,
most nations require a chastisement before they set about reorganising their political institutions.
So Prussia wanted a Jena to make her the strong and healthy country she is."]

[Footnote 168: Yet even in De Tocqueville's benevolent nature, there was a pervading element
of impatience. In the very letter in which the above passage occurs, he says: "Some persons
try to be of use to men while they despise them, and others because they love them. In the
services rendered by the first, there is always something incomplete, rough, and contemptuous,
that inspires neither confidence nor gratitude. I should like to belong to the second class,
but often I cannot. I love mankind in general, but I constantly meet with individuals whose
baseness revolts me. I struggle daily against a universal contempt for my fellow, creatures."--MEMOIRS
AND REMAINS OF DE TOCQUEVILLE, vol. i. p. 813. [Footnote 16Letter to Kergorlay, Nov. 13th, 1833].]

[Footnote 169: Gleig's 'Life of Wellington,' pp. 314, 315.]

[Footnote 1610: 'Life of Arnold,' i. 94.]

[Footnote 1611: See the 'Memoir of George Wilson, M.D., F.R.S.E.' By his sister [Footnote 16Edinburgh,
1860].]

[Footnote 1612: Such cases are not unusual. We personally knew a young lady, a countrywoman
of Professor Wilson, afflicted by cancer in the breast, who concealed the disease from her
parents lest it should occasion them distress. An operation became necessary; and when the
surgeons called for the purpose of performing it, she herself answered the door, received them
with a cheerful countenance, led them upstairs to her room, and submitted to the knife; and
her parents knew nothing of the operation until it was all over. But the disease had become
too deeply seated for recovery, and the noble self-denying girl died, cheerful and uncomplaining
to the end.

[Footnote 1613: "One night, about eleven o'clock, Keats returned home in a state of strange
physical excitement--it might have appeared, to those who did not know him, one of fierce intoxication.
He told his friend he had been outside the stage-coach, had received a severe chill, was a
little fevered, but added, 'I don't feel it now.' He was easily persuaded to go to bed, and
as he leapt into the cold sheets, before his head was on the pillow, he slightly coughed and
said, 'That is blood from my mouth; bring me the candle; let me see this blood' He gazed steadfastly
for some moments at the ruddy stain, and then, looking in his friend's face with an expression
of sudden calmness never to be forgotten, said, 'I know the colour of that blood--it is arterial
blood. I cannot be deceived in that colour; that drop is my death-warrant. I must die!'"--Houghton's
LIFE OF KEATS, Ed. 1867, p. 289.

In the case of George Wilson, the bleeding was in the first instance from the stomach, though
he afterwards suffered from lung haemorrhage like Keats. Wilson afterwards, speaking of the
Lives of Lamb and Keats, which had just appeared, said he had been reading them with great
sadness. "There is," said he, "something in the noble brotherly love of Charles to brighten,
and hallow, and relieve that sadness; but Keats's deathbed is the blackness of midnight, unmitigated
by one ray of light!"]

[Footnote 1614: On the doctors, who attended him in his first attack, mistaking the haemorrhage
from the stomach for haemorrhage from the lungs, he wrote: "It would have been but poor consolation
to have had as an epitaph:--

      "Here lies George Wilson,
        Overtaken by Nemesis;
      He died not of Haemoptysis,
        But of Haematemesis."]

[Footnote 1615: 'Memoir,' p. 427.]

[Footnote 171: Jeremy Taylor's 'Holy Living.']

[Footnote 172: 'Michelet's 'Life of Luther,' pp. 411-12.]

[Footnote 173: Sir John Kaye's 'Lives of Indian Officers.']

[Footnote 174: 'Deontology,' pp. 130-1, 144.]

[Footnote 175: 'Letters and Essays,' p. 67.]

[Footnote 176: 'Beauties of St. Francis de Sales.']

[Footnote 177: Ibid.]

[Footnote 178: 'Life of Perthes,' ii. 449.]

[Footnote 179: Moore's 'Life of Byron,' 8vo. Ed., p. 483.]

[Footnote 181: Locke thought it of greater importance that an educator of youth should be well-bred
and well-tempered, than that he should be either a thorough classicist or man of science. Writing
to Lord Peterborough on his son's education, Locke said: "Your Lordship would have your son's
tutor a thorough scholar, and I think it not much matter whether he be any scholar or no: if
he but understand Latin well, and have a general scheme of the sciences, I think that enough.

    "So I, MADE LAME by sorrow's dearest spite," &c.--SONNET XXXVI]

[Footnote 188: "And strength, by LIMPING sway disabled," &c.--SONNET LXVI.

    "Speak of MY LAMENESS, and I straight will halt."--SONNET LXXXIX.]

[Footnote 189:

     "Alas! 'tis true, I have gone here and there,
       And MADE MYSELF A MOTLEY TO THE VIEW,
     Gored mine own thoughts, sold cheap what is most dear,
       Made old offences of affections new," &c.--SONNET CX.
1860: p. 232.]

[Footnote 1813: Archbishop Whately's 'Commonplace Book.']

[Footnote 1814: Emerson is said to have had Nathaniel Hawthorne in his mind when writing the
following passage in his 'Society and Solitude:'--"The most agreeable compliment you could
pay him was, to imply that you had not observed him in a house or a street where you had met
him. Whilst he suffered at being seen where he was, he consoled himself with the delicious
thought of the inconceivable number of places where he was not. All he wished of his tailor
was to provide that sober mean of colour and cut which would never detain the eye for a moment....
He had a remorse, running to despair, of his social GAUCHERIES, and walked miles and miles
to get the twitchings out of his face, and the starts and shrugs out of his arms and shoulders.
'God may forgive sins,' he said, 'but awkwardness has no forgiveness in heaven or earth.'"]

[Footnote 1815: In a series of clever articles in the REVUE DES DEUX MONDES, entitled, 'Six
mille Lieues a toute Vapeur,' giving a description of his travels in North America, Maurice
Sand keenly observed the comparatively anti-social proclivities of the American compared with
the Frenchman. The one, he says, is inspired by the spirit of individuality, the other by the
spirit of society. In America he sees the individual absorbing society; as in France he sees
society absorbing the individual. "Ce peuple Anglo-Saxon," he says, "qui trouvait devant lui
la terre, l'instrument de travail, sinon inepuisable, du mons inepuise, s'est mis a l'exploiter
sous l'inspiration de l'egoisme; et nous autres Francais, nous n'avons rien su en faire, parceque
NOUS NE POUVONS RIEN DANS L'ISOLEMENT.... L'Americain supporte la solitude avec un stoicisme
admirable, mais effrayant; il ne l'aime pas, il ne songe qu'a la detruire.... Le Francais est
tout autre. Il aime son parent, son ami, son compagnon, et jusqu'a son voisin d'omnibus ou
de theatre, si sa figure lui est sympathetique. Pourquoi? Parce qu'il le regarde et cherche
son ame, parce qu'il vit dans son semblable autant qu'en lui-meme. Quand il est longtemps seul,
il deperit, et quand il est toujours seul, it meurt."]

All this is perfectly true, and it explains why the comparatively unsociable Germans, English,
and Americans, are spreading over the earth, while the intensely sociable Frenchmen, unable
to enjoy life without each other's society, prefer to stay at home, and France fails to extend
itself beyond France.]

[Footnote 1816: The Irish have, in many respects, the same strong social instincts as the French.
In the United States they cluster naturally in the towns, where they have their "Irish Quarters,"
as in England. They are even more Irish there than at home, and can no more forget that they
are Irishmen than the French can that they are Frenchmen. "I deliberately assert," says Mr.
Maguire, in his recent work on 'The Irish in America,' "that it is not within the power of
language to describe adequately, much less to exaggerate, the evils consequent on the unhappy
tendency of the Irish to congregate in the large towns of America." It is this intense socialism
of the Irish that keeps them in a comparatively hand-to-mouth condition in all the States of
the Union.]

[Footnote 1817: 'The Statesman,' p. 35.]

[Footnote 1818: Nathaniel Hawthorne, in his 'First Impressions of France and Italy,' says his
opinion of the uncleanly character of the modern Romans is so unfavourable that he hardly knows
how to express it "But the fact is that through the Forum, and everywhere out of the commonest
foot-track and roadway, you must look well to your steps.... Perhaps there is something in
the minds of the people of these countries that enables them to dissever small ugliness from
great sublimity and beauty. They spit upon the glorious pavement of St. Peter's, and wherever
else they like; they place paltry-looking wooden confessionals beneath its sublime arches,
and ornament them with cheap little coloured prints of the Crucifixion; they hang tin hearts,
and other tinsel and trumpery, at the gorgeous shrines of the saints, in chapels that are encrusted
with gems, or marbles almost as precious; they put pasteboard statues of saints beneath the
dome of the Pantheon;--in short, they let the sublime and the ridiculous come close together,
and are not in the least troubled by the proximity."]

[Footnote 1819: Edwin Chadwick's 'Address to the Economic Science and Statistic Section,' British
Association [18Meeting, 1862].]

[Footnote 191: 'Kaye's 'Lives of Indian Officers.']

[Footnote 192: Emerson, in his 'Society and Solitude,' says "In contemporaries, it is not so
easy to distinguish between notoriety and fame. Be sure, then, to read no mean books. Shun
the spawn of the press or the gossip of the hour.... The three practical rules I have to offer
are these:--1. Never read a book that is not a year old; 2. Never read any but famed books;
3. Never read any but what you like." Lord Lytton's maxim is: "In science, read by preference
the newest books; in literature, the oldest."]

[Footnote 193: A friend of Sir Walter Scott, who had the same habit, and prided himself on
his powers of conversation, one day tried to "draw out" a fellow-passenger who sat beside him
on the outside of a coach, but with indifferent success. At length the conversationalist descended
to expostulation. "I have talked to you, my friend," said he, "on all the ordinary subjects--literature,
farming, merchandise, gaming, game-laws, horse-races, suits at law, politics, and swindling,
and blasphemy, and philosophy: is there any one subject that you will favour me by opening
upon?" The wight writhed his countenance into a grin: "Sir," said he, "can you say anything
clever about BEND-LEATHER?" As might be expected, the conversationalist was completely nonplussed.]

[Footnote 194: Coleridge, in his 'Lay Sermon,' points out, as a fact of history, how large
a part of our present knowledge and civilization is owing, directly or indirectly, to the Bible;
that the Bible has been the main lever by which the moral and intellectual character of Europe
has been raised to its present comparative height; and he specifies the marked and prominent
difference of this book from the works which it is the fashion to quote as guides and authorities
in morals, politics, and history. "In the Bible," he says, "every agent appears and acts as
a self-substituting individual: each has a life of its own, and yet all are in life. The elements
of necessity and freewill are reconciled in the higher power of an omnipresent Providence,
that predestinates the whole in the moral freedom of the integral parts. Of this the Bible
never suffers us to lose sight. The root is never detached from the ground, it is God everywhere;
and all creatures conform to His decrees--the righteous by performance of the law, the disobedient
by the sufferance of the penalty."]

[Footnote 195: Montaigne's Essay [19Book I. chap. xxv.]--'Of the Education of Children.']

[Footnote 196: "Tant il est vrai," says Voltaire, "que les hommes, qui sont audessus des autres
par les talents, s'en RAPPROCHENT PRESQUE TOUJOURS PAR LES FAIBLESSES; car pourquoi les talents
nous mettraient-ils audessous de l'humanite."--VIE DE MOLIERE.]

[Footnote 197: 'Life,' 8vo Ed., p. 102.]

[Footnote 198: 'Autobiography of Sir Egerton Brydges, Bart.,' vol. i. p. 91.]

[Footnote 199: It was wanting in Plutarch, in Southey [19'Life of Nelson'], and in Forster
[19'Life of Goldsmith']; yet it must be acknowledged that personal knowledge gives the principal
charm to Tacitus's 'Agricola,' Roper's 'Life of More,' Johnson's 'Lives of Savage and Pope,'
Boswell's 'Johnson,' Lockhart's 'Scott,' Carlyle's 'Sterling,' and Moore's 'Byron,']

[Footnote 1910: The 'Dialogus Novitiorum de Contemptu Mundi.']

[Footnote 1911: The Life of Sir Charles Bell, one of our greatest physiologists, was left to
be written by Amedee Pichot, a Frenchman; and though Sir Charles Bell's letters to his brother
have since been published, his Life still remains to be written. It may also be added that
the best Life of Goethe has been written by an Englishman, and the best Life of Frederick the
Great by a Scotchman.]

[Footnote 1912: It is not a little remarkable that the pious Schleiermacher should have concurred
in opinion with Goethe as to the merits of Spinoza, though he was a man excommunicated by the
Jews, to whom he belonged, and denounced by the Christians as a man little better than an atheist.
"The Great Spirit of the world," says Schleiermacher, in his REDE UBER DIE RELIGION, "penetrated
the holy but repudiated Spinoza; the Infinite was his beginning and his end; the universe his
only and eternal love. He was filled with religion and religious feeling: and therefore is
it that he stands alone unapproachable, the master in his art, but elevated above the profane
world, without adherents, and without even citizenship."]

Cousin also says of Spinoza:--"The author whom this pretended atheist most resembles is the
unknown author of 'The Imitation of Jesus Christ.'"]

[Footnote 1913: Preface to Southeys 'Life of Wesley' [191864].]

[Footnote 1914: Napoleon also read Milton carefully, and it has been related of him by Sir
Colin Campbell, who resided with Napoleon at Elba, that when speaking of the Battle of Austerlitz,
he said that a particular disposition of his artillery, which, in its results, had a decisive
effect in winning the battle, was suggested to his mind by the recollection of four lines in
Milton. The lines occur in the sixth book, and are descriptive of Satan's artifice during the
war with Heaven.

                "In hollow cube
       Training his devilish engin'ry, impal'd
       On every side WITH SHADOWING SQUADRONS DEEP
       TO HIDE THE FRAUD."

"The indubitable fact," says Mr. Edwards, in his book 'On Libraries,' "that these lines have
a certain appositeness to an important manoeuvre at Austerlitz, gives an independent interest
to the story; but it is highly imaginative to ascribe the victory to that manoeuvre. And for
the other preliminaries of the tale, it is unfortunate that Napoleon had learned a good deal
about war long before he had learned anything about Milton."]

[Footnote 1915: 'Biographia Literaria,' chap. i.]

[Footnote 1916: Sir John Bowring's 'Memoirs of Bentham,' p. 10.]

[Footnote 1917: Notwithstanding recent censures of classical studies as a useless waste of
time, there can be no doubt that they give the highest finish to intellectual culture. The
ancient classics contain the most consummate models of literary art; and the greatest writers
have been their most diligent students. Classical culture was the instrument with which Erasmus
and the Reformers purified Europe. It distinguished the great patriots of the seventeenth century;
and it has ever since characterised our greatest statesmen. As he lay down to sleep on the
mat spread for him on the floor of the hut, his benefactress called to the female part of the
family to resume their task of spinning cotton, in which they continued employed far into the
night. "They lightened their labour with songs," says the traveller, "one of which was composed
extempore, for I was myself the subject of it; it was sung by one of the young women, the rest
joining in a chorus. The air was sweet and plaintive, and the words, literally translated,
were these: 'The winds roared, and the rains fell. The poor white man, faint and weary, came
and sat under our tree. He has no mother to bring him milk, no wife to grind his corn.' Chorus--'Let
us pity the white man, no mother has he!' Trifling as this recital may appear, to a person
in my situation the circumstance was affecting in the highest degree. I was so oppressed by
such unexpected kindness, that sleep fled before my eyes."]

[Footnote 202: 'Transformation, or Monte Beni.']

[Footnote 203: 'Portraits Contemporains,' iii. 519.]

[Footnote 204: Mr. Arthur Helps, in one of his Essays, has wisely said: "You observe a man
becoming day by day richer, or advancing in station, or increasing in professional reputation,
and you set him down as a successful man in life. But if his home is an ill-regulated one,
where no links of affection extend throughout the family--whose former domestics [20and he
has had more of them than he can well remember] look back upon their sojourn with him as one
unblessed by kind words or deeds--I contend that that man has not been successful. Whatever
good fortune he may have in the world, it is to be remembered that he has always left one important
fortress untaken behind him. That man's life does not surely read well whose benevolence has
found no central home. It may have sent forth rays in various directions, but there should
have been a warm focus of love--that home-nest which is formed round a good mans heart."--CLAIMS
OF LABOUR.]

[Footnote 205: "The red heart sends all its instincts up to the white brain, to be analysed,
chilled, blanched, and so become pure reason--which is just exactly what we do NOT want of
women as women. It is a common error, but it is an error, that literature unfits women for
the everyday business of life. It is not so with men. You see those of the most cultivated
minds constantly devoting their time and attention to the most homely objects. Literature gives
women a real and proper weight in society, but then they must use it with discretion."--THE
REV. SYDNEY SMITH.]

[Footnote 208: 'The Statesman,' pp. 73-75.]

[Footnote 209: Fuller, the Church historian, with his usual homely mother-wit, speaking of
the choice of a wife, said briefly, "Take the daughter of a good mother."]

[Footnote 2010: She was an Englishwoman--a Miss Motley. It maybe mentioned that amongst other
distinguished Frenchmen who have married English wives, were Sismondi, Alfred de Vigny, and
Lamartine.]

[Footnote 2011: "Plus je roule dans ce monde, et plus je suis amene a penser qu'il n'y a que
le bonheur domestique qui signifie quelque chose."--OEUVRES ET CORRESPONDENCE.]

[Footnote 2012: De Tocqueville's 'Memoir and Remains,' vol. i. p. 408.]

[Footnote 2013: De Tocqueville's 'Memoir and Remains,' vol. ii. p. 48.]

[Footnote 2014: Colonel Hutchinson was an uncompromising republican, thoroughly brave, highminded,
and pious. At the Restoration, he was discharged from Parliament, and from all offices of state
for ever. He retired to his estate at Owthorp, near Nottingham, but was shortly after arrested
and imprisoned in the Tower. From thence he was removed to Sandown Castle, near Deal, where
he lay for eleven months, and died on September 11th, 1664. The wife petitioned for leave to
share his prison, but was refused. When he felt himself dying, knowing the deep sorrow which
his death would occasion to his wife, he left this message, which was conveyed to her: "Let
her, as she is above other women, show herself on this occasion a good Christian, and above
the pitch of ordinary women." Hence the wife's allusion to her husband's "command" in the above
passage.]

[Footnote 2015: Mrs. Lucy Hutchinson to her children concerning their father: 'Memoirs of the
Life of Col. Hutchinson' [20Bohn's Ed.], pp. 29-30.]

[Footnote 2016: On the Declaration of American Independence, the first John Adams, afterwards
President of the United States, bought a copy of the 'Life and Letters of Lady Russell,' and
presented it to his wife, "with an express intent and desire" [20as stated by himself], "that
she should consider it a mirror in which to contemplate herself; for, at that time, I thought
it extremely probable, from the daring and dangerous career I was determined to run, that she
would one day find herself in the situation of Lady Russell, her husband without a head:" Speaking
of his wife in connection with the fact, Mr. Adams added: "Like Lady Russell, she never, by
word or look, discouraged me from running all hazards for the salvation of my country's liberties.
She was willing to share with me, and that her children should share with us both, in all the
dangerous consequences we had to hazard."]

[Footnote 2017: 'Memoirs of the Life of Sir Samuel Romily,' vol. i. p. 41.]

[Footnote 2018: It is a singular circumstance that in the parish church of St. Bride, Fleet
Street, there is a tablet on the wall with an inscription to the memory of Isaac Romilly, F.R.S.,
who died in 1759, of a broken heart, seven days after the decease of a beloved wife--CHAMBERS'
BOOK OF DAYS, vol. ii. p. 539.]

[Footnote 2019: Mr. Frank Buckland says "During the long period that Dr. Buckland was engaged
in writing the book which I now have the honour of editing, my mother sat up night after night,
for weeks and months consecutively, writing to my father's dictation; and this often till the
sun's rays, shining through the shutters at early morn, warned the husband to cease from thinking,
and the wife to rest her weary hand. Not only with her pen did she render material assistance,
but her natural talent in the use of her pencil enabled her to give accurate illustrations
and finished drawings, many of which are perpetuated in Dr. Buckland's works. She was also
particularly clever and neat in mending broken fossils; and there are many specimens in the
Oxford Museum, now exhibiting their natural forms and beauty, which were restored by her perseverance
to shape from a mass of broken and almost comminuted fragments."]

[Footnote 2020: Veitch's 'Memoirs of Sir William Hamilton.']

[Footnote 2021: The following extract from Mr. Veitch's biography will give one an idea of
the extraordinary labours of Lady Hamilton, to whose unfailing devotion to the service of her
husband the world of intellect has been so much indebted: "The number of pages in her handwriting,"
says Mr. Veitch,--"filled with abstruse metaphysical matter, original and quoted, bristling
with proportional and syllogistic formulae--that are still preserved, is perfectly marvellous.
Everything that was sent to the press, and all the courses of lectures, were written by her,
either to dictation, or from a copy. This work she did in the truest spirit of love and devotion.
She had a power, moreover, of keeping her husband up to what he had to do. She contended wisely
against a sort of energetic indolence which characterised him, and which, while he was always
labouring, made him apt to put aside the task actually before him--sometimes diverted by subjects
of inquiry suggested in the course of study on the matter in hand, sometimes discouraged by
the difficulty of reducing to order the immense mass of materials he had accumulated in connection
with it. Then her resolution and cheerful disposition sustained and refreshed him, and never
more so than when, during the last twelve years of his life, his bodily strength was broken,
and his spirit, though languid, yet ceased not from mental toil. The truth is, that Sir William's
marriage, his comparatively limited circumstances, and the character of his wife, supplied
to a nature that would have been contented to spend its mighty energies in work that brought
no reward but in the doing of it, and that might never have been made publicly known or available,
the practical force and impulse which enabled him to accomplish what he actually did in literature
and philosophy. It was this influence, without doubt, which saved him from utter absorption
in his world of rare, noble, and elevated, but ever-increasingly unattainable ideas. But for
it, the serene sea of abstract thought might have held him becalmed for life; and in the absence
of all utterance of definite knowledge of his conclusions, the world might have been left to
an ignorant and mysterious wonder about the unprofitable scholar."]

[Footnote 211: 'Calcutta Review,' article on 'Romance and Reality of Indian Life.']

[Footnote 212: Joseph Lancaster was only twenty years of age when [21in 1798: he opened his
first school in a spare room in his father's house, which was soon filled with the destitute
children of the neighbourhood. The room was shortly found too small for the numbers seeking
admission, and one place after another was hired, until at length Lancaster had a special building
erected, capable of accommodating a thousand pupils; outside of which was placed the following
notice:--"All that will, may send their children here, and have them educated freely; and those
that do not wish to have education for nothing, may pay for it if they please." Thus Joseph
Lancaster was the precursor of our present system of National Education.]

[Footnote 213: A great musician once said of a promising but passionless cantatrice--"She sings
well, but she wants something, and in that something everything. Cervantes.]

[Footnote 215: A cavalier, named Ruy de Camera, having called upon Camoens to furnish a poetical
version of the seven penitential psalms, the poet, raising his head from his miserable pallet,
and pointing to his faithful slave, exclaimed: "Alas! when I was a poet, I was young, and happy,
and blest with the love of ladies; but now, I am a forlorn deserted wretch! See--there stands
my poor Antonio, vainly supplicating FOURPENCE to purchase a little coals. I have not them
to give him!" The cavalier, Sousa quaintly relates, in his 'Life of Camoens,' closed his heart
and his purse, and quitted the room. Such were the grandees of Portugal!--Lord Strangford's
REMARKS ON THE LIFE AND WRITINGS OF CAMOENS, 1824.]

[Footnote 216: See chapter v. p. 125.]

[Footnote 217: A Quaker called on Bunyan one day with "a message from the Lord," saying he
had been to half the gaols of England, and was glad at last to have found him. To which Bunyan
replied: "If the Lord sent thee, you would not have needed to take so much trouble to find
me out, for He knew that I have been in Bedford Gaol these seven years past."]

[Footnote 218: Prynne, besides standing in the pillory and having his ears cut off, was imprisoned
by turns in the Tower, Mont Orgueil [21Jersey], Dunster Castle, Taunton Castle, and Pendennis
Castle. He after-wards pleaded zealously for the Restoration, and was made Keeper of the Records
by Charles II. It has been computed that Prynne wrote, compiled, and printed about eight quarto
pages for every working-day of his life, from his reaching man's estate to the day of his death.
Though his books were for the most part appropriated by the trunkmakers, they now command almost
fabulous prices, chiefly because of their rarity.]

[Footnote 219: He also projected his 'Review' in prison--the first periodical of the kind,
which pointed the way to the host of 'Tatlers,' 'Guardians,' and 'Spectators,' which followed
it. The 'Review' consisted of 102 numbers, forming nine quarto volumes, all of which were written
by De Foe himself, while engaged in other and various labours.]

[Footnote 2110: A passage in the Earl of Carlisles Lecture on Pope--'Heaven was made for those
who have failed in this world'--struck me very forcibly several years ago when I read it in
a newspaper, and became a rich vein of thought, in which I often quarried, especially when
the sentence was interpreted by the Cross, which was failure apparently."--LIFE AND LETTERS
OF ROBERTSON [21of Brighton], ii. 94.]

[Footnote 2111:

      "Not all who seem to fail, have failed indeed;
      Not all who fail have therefore worked in vain:
      For all our acts to many issues lead;
      And out of earnest purpose, pure and plain,
      Enforced by honest toil of hand or brain,
      The Lord will fashion, in His own good time,
      [21Be this the labourer's proudly-humble creed,]
      Such ends as, to His wisdom, fitliest chime
      With His vast love's eternal harmonies.
      There is no failure for the good and wise:
      What though thy seed should fall by the wayside
      And the birds snatch it;--yet the birds are fed;
      Or they may bear it far across the tide,
      To give rich harvests after thou art dead."
                      POLITICS FOR THE PEOPLE, 1848.]

[Footnote 2112: "What is it," says Mr. Helps, "that promotes the most and the deepest thought
in the human race? It is not learning; it is not the conduct of business; it is not even the
impulse of the affections. It is suffering; and that, perhaps, is the reason why there is so
much suffering in the world. The angel who went down to trouble the waters and to make them
healing, was not, perhaps, entrusted with so great a boon as the angel who benevolently inflicted
upon the sufferers the disease from which they suffered."--BREVIA.]

[Footnote 2113: These lines were written by Deckar, in a spirit of boldness equal to its piety. 6.]

[Footnote 2117: Ibid., ch. iii. sect. 6.]

[Footnote 2118: Gibbon's 'Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire,' vol. x. p. 40.]