     Here is a recipe for citron cake for Puss Hunter's cooking club:
     One tea-cup of sugar; two-thirds of a tea-cup of butter; two
     tea-cups of flour; half a tea-cup of milk; one tea-spoonful of
     soda dissolved in the milk; a little essence of lemon. Stir in
     bits of citron cut thin, and bake in hearts and rounds.

     I have taken YOUNG PEOPLE since Christmas, and I look eagerly for
     it every week. I have two dolls, Nellie and Pearl. I am eleven
     years old.

  ANNA W. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I have a few specimens of trees arranged according to the
     directions given in YOUNG PEOPLE No. 31. I would like to exchange
     them with some little girl living in any locality except San
     Francisco.

     As I live in the city, I do not have many opportunities to get
     specimens, but when I do go to the country I make good use of my
     time, and in spite of being very much afraid of cows, snakes, and
     lizards, I sometimes venture in pretty wild places for good
     specimens.

     This year we went out to Napa Valley with a friend, who drove us
     all over the valley. We saw hundreds and hundreds of acres of
     vineyards, and passed lots of places where they were laying out
     more.

     I am an only child, and I have no pets now except my flowers and
     dolls, and my own lovely piano.

  IDA BELLE DISERENS,
  734 Grove Street, San Francisco, California.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I would like to exchange pressed flowers with some little girl,
     and when the seeds are ripe I will exchange seeds. I have some
     nice flowering beans, and different kinds of larkspurs. I will
     exchange larkspur seed for pink seed. There are many varieties of
     ferns here.

     Can any one tell me how to varnish leaves, and also if there is
     any way to keep pressed flowers from fading?

  MARY LOWRY,
  Elizabethtown, Hardin County, Illinois.

       *       *       *       *       *

     As a great many of the other little girls write to Our Post-office
     Box, I thought I would write too. Papa takes YOUNG PEOPLE, and we
     children like it very much. I guess he does too.

     I have no pets, but my older sister has a pet calf, and it is very
     pretty. Its name is Lily May. She feeds it on meal and water. I
     have three dolls. Two are china, and one is a large wax doll, with
     beautiful brown hair.

     I would like to exchange pressed flowers with any little girl.

  SALLIE M. BROWN,
  London, Kentucky.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Since my letter was published in YOUNG PEOPLE No. 33, I have
     received so many letters from different States--several of them
     accompanied with eggs--that it is impossible for me to answer them
     all promptly. I wish to tell the correspondents, through the
     Post-office Box, that I will surely answer all their letters and
     return them eggs, but they must not be surprised if it is not
     immediately, for nearly all asked me for the same kind of eggs,
     and I can only send them as fast as my agents, who are colored
     children, find them and bring them to me.

  ALICE I. PAINE,
  Ingleside Farm, Cherokee County, Georgia.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I would like to exchange birds' eggs with some one in a distant
     State or Territory.

  GEORGE L. RUSBY,
  Franklin, Essex County, New Jersey.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I am eleven years old. My papa is a doctor, and my mamma teaches a
     Kindergarten school. I have a little sister we call Fredie. We
     each have a kitten, and I have a canary.

