After Tizi Ouzou the mountains were no longer sterile-seeming. The road coiled up and up snakily,
between rows of leering cactus; and far below the densely wooded heights lay lovely plains
through which a great river wandered. There was a homely smell of mint, and the country did
not look to Stephen like the Africa he had imagined. All the hill-slopes were green with the
bright green of fig trees and almonds, even at heights so great that the car wallowed among
clouds. This steep road was the road to Fort National--the "thorn in the eye of Kabylia," which
pierces so deeply that Kabylia may writhe, but revolt no more. Already it was almost as if
the car had brought them into another world. The men who occasionally emerged from the woolly
white blankets of the clouds, were men of a very different type from the mild Kabyles of the
plains they had met trooping along towards Algiers in search of work.

These were brave, upstanding men, worthy of their fathers who revolted against French rule
and could not be conquered until that thorn, Fort National, was planted deeply in heart and
eye. Some were fair, and even red-haired, which would have surprised Stephen if he had not
heard from Nevill that in old days the Christian slaves used to escape from Algiers and seek
refuge in Kabylia, where they were treated as free men, and no questions were asked.

Without Fort National, it seemed to Stephen that this strange Berber people would never have
been forced to yield; for looking down from mountain heights as the motor sped on, it was as
if he looked into a vast and intricate maze of valleys, and on each curiously pointed peak
clung a Kabyle village that seemed to be inlaid in the rock like separate bits of scarlet enamel.
It was the low house-roofs which gave this effect, for unlike the Arabs, whom the ancient Berber
lords of the soil regard with scorn, the Kabyles build their dwellings of stone, roofed with
red tiles.

This was a wild, tormented world, broken into a hundred sharp mountain ridges which seemed
to cut the sky, because between the high peaks and the tangled skein of far-away villages surged
foaming seas of cloud, which appeared to separate high, bright peaks from shadowed vales, by
incredible distances. As far as the eye could travel with utmost straining, away to the dark,
imposing background of the Djurdjura range, billowed ridges and ravines, ravines and ridges,
each pointing pinnacle or razor-shelf adorned with its coral-red hamlet, like a group of poisonous
fungi, or the barnacles on a ship's steep side. Such an extraordinary landscape Stephen had
never imagined, or seen except on a Japanese fan; and it struck him that the scene actually
did resemble quaint prints picturing half-real, half-imaginary scenes in old Japan.

"What a country for war! What a country for defence!" he said to himself, as Nevill's yellow
car sped along the levels of narrow ridges that gave, on either hand, vertical views far down
to fertile valleys, rushed into clouds of weeping rain, or out into regions of sunlight and
rainbows.

It was three o'clock when they reached Michélet, but they had not stopped for luncheon, as
both were in haste to find Mouni: and Mouni's village was just beyond Michélet. Since Fort
National, they had been in the heart of Grand Kabylia; and Michélet was even more characteristic
of this strange mountain country, so different from transplanted Arabia below.

Not an Arab lived here, in the long, straggling town, built on the crest of a high ridge. Not
a minaret tower pointed skyward. The Kabyle place of worship had a roof of little more height
or importance than those that clustered round it. The men were in striped brown gandourahs
of camel's hair; the lovely unveiled women were wrapped in woollen foutahs dyed red or yellow,
blue or purple, and from their little ears heavy rings dangled. The blue tattoo marks on their
brown cheeks and foreheads, which in forgotten times had been Christian crosses, gave great
value to their enormous, kohl-encircled eyes; and their teeth were very white as they smiled
boldly, yet proudly, at Stephen and Nevill.

There was a flight of steps to mount from the car to the hotel, and as the two men climbed
the stairs they turned to look, across a profound chasm, to the immense mass of the Djurdjura
opposite Michélet's thin ledge. From their point of view, it was like the Jungfrau, as Stephen
had seen it from Mürren, on one of his few trips to Switzerland. Somehow, those little conventional
potterings of his seemed pitiable now, they had been so easy to do, so exactly what other people
did.

It was long past ordinary luncheon time, and hunger constrained the two men to eat before starting
out to find the village where Mouni and her people lived. It was so small a hamlet, that Nevill,
who knew Kabylia well, had never heard of it until Josette Soubise wrote the name for him on
one of her own cards. The landlord of the hotel at Michélet gave rapid and fluent directions
how to go, saying that the distance was two miles, but as the way was a steep mountain path,
les messieurs must go on foot.

Immediately after lunching they started, armed with a present for the bride; a watch encrusted
with tiny brilliants, which, following Josette's advice, they had chosen as the one thing of
all others calculated to win the Kabyle girl's heart. "It will be like a fairy dream to her
to have a watch of her own," Josette had said. "Her friends will be dying of envy, and she
will enjoy that. Oh, she will search her soul and tell you everything she knows, if you but
give her a watch!"

For a little way the friends walked along the wild and beautiful road, which from Michélet
plunges down the mountains toward Bougie and the sea; but soon they came to the narrow, ill-defined
footpath described by the landlord. It led straight up a steep shoulder of rock which at its
highest part became a ledge; and when they had climbed to the top, at a distance they could
see a cluster of red roofs apparently falling down a precipice, at the far end.

Here and there were patches of snow, white as fallen lily-petals on the pansy-coloured earth.
Looking down was like looking from a high wave upon a vast sea of other waves, each wave carrying
on its apex a few bits of broken red mosaic, which were Kabyle roofs; and the pale sky was
streaked with ragged violet clouds exactly like the sky and clouds painted on screens by Japanese
artists.

They met not a soul as they walked, but while the village was still far away and unreal, the
bark of guns, fired quickly one after the other, jarred their ears, and the mountain wind brought
a crying of raïtas, African clarionettes, and the dull, yet fierce beat of tom-toms.

"Now I know why we've met no one," said Nevill. "The wedding feast's still on, and everybody
who is anybody at Yacoua, is there. You know, if you're an Arab, or even a Kabyle, it takes
you a week to be married properly, and you have high jinks every day: music and dancing and
eating, and if you've money enough, above all you make the powder speak. Mouni's people are
doing her well. What a good thing we've got the watch! Even with Josette's introduction we
mightn't have been able to come near the bride, unless we had something to offer worth her having."

The mountain village of Yacoua had no suburbs, no outlying houses. The one-story mud huts with
their pointed red roofs, utterly unlike Arab dwellings, were huddled together, with only enough
distance between for a man and a mule or a donkey to pass. The best stood in pairs, with a
walled yard between; and as Stephen and Nevill searched anxiously for some one to point out
the home of Mouni, from over a wall which seemed to be running down the mountain-side, came
a white puff of smoke and a strident bang, then more, one after the other. Again the wailing
of the raïta began, and there was no longer any need to ask the way.

"That's where the party is--in that yard," said Nevill, beginning to be excited. "Now, what
sort of reception will they give us? That's the next question."

"Can't we tell, the first thing, that we've come from Algiers with a present for the bride?"
suggested Stephen.

"We can if they understand Arabic," Nevill answered. "But the Kabyle lingo's quite different--Berber,
or something racy of the soil. I ought to have brought Mohammed to interpret."

So steeply did the yard between the low houses run downhill, that, standing at the top of a
worn path like a seam in some old garment, the two Europeans could look over the mud wall.
Squalid as were the mud huts and the cattle-yard connecting them, the picture framed in the
square enclosure blazed with colour. It was barbaric, and beautiful in its savagery.

Squatting on the ground, with the last rank against the house wall, were several rows of women,
all unveiled, their uncovered arms jewelled to the elbows, embracing their knees. The afternoon
sunlight shone on their ceremonial finery, setting fire to the red, blue and green enamel of
their necklaces, their huge hoop earrings and the jewelled silver chains pinned to their scarlet
or yellow head-wrappings, struck out strange gleams from the flat, round brooches which fastened
their gaily striped robes on their shoulders, and turned their great dark eyes into brown topazes.
Twenty or thirty men, dressed in their best burnouses, draped over new gandourahs, their heads
swathed in clean white muslin turbans, sat on the opposite side of the court, watching the
"powder play" furnished by two tall, handsome boys, who handled with delicate grace and skill
old-fashioned, long-muzzled guns inlaid with coral and silver, heirlooms perhaps, and of some
value even to antiquaries.

While the powder spoke, nobody had a thought for anything else. All eyes were upon the boys
with the guns, only travelling upward in ecstasy to watch the puffs of smoke that belched out
round and white as fat snowballs. Then, when the music burst forth again, and a splendidly
handsome young Kabyle woman ran forward to begin the wild dance of the body and of the hands--dear
to the mountain men as to the nomads of the desert--every one was at first absorbed in admiration
of her movements. But suddenly a child (one of a dozen in a row in front of all the women)
tired of the show, less amusing to him than the powder play, and looking up, saw the two Roumis
on the hill behind the wall. He nudged his neighbour, and the neighbour, who happened to be
a little girl, followed with her eyes the upward nod of his head. So the news went round that
strangers had come uninvited to the wedding-feast, and men began to frown and women to whisper,
while the dancer lost interest in her own tinklings and genuflections.

It was time for the intruders to make it known that business of some sort, not idle curiosity,
had brought them on the scene, and Nevill stepped forward, holding out the visiting card given
him by Josette, and the crimson velvet case containing the watch which Stephen had bought in
Algiers.

XXII

An elderly man, with a reddish beard, got up from the row of men grouped behind the musicians,
and muttered to one of the youths who had been making the powder speak. They argued for a moment,
and then the boy, handing his gun to the elder man, walked with dignity to a closed gate, large
enough to let in the goats and donkeys pertaining to the two houses. This gate he opened half-way,
standing in the aperture and looking up sullenly as the Roumis came down the narrow, slippery
track which led to it.

"Cebah el-kheir, ia Sidi--Good day, sir," said Nevill, agreeably, in his best Arabic. "Ta'
rafi el-a' riya?--Do you speak Arabic?"

The young man bowed, not yet conciliated. "Ach men sebba jit lhena, ia Sidi?--Why have you
come here, sir?" he asked suspiciously, in very guttural Arabic.

Relieved to find that they would have no great difficulty in understanding each other, Nevill
plunged into explanations, pointing to Josette's card. They had come recommended by the malema
at Tlemcen. They brought good wishes and a present to the bride of the village, the virtuous
and beautiful Mouni, from whom they would gladly receive information concerning a European
lady. Was this the house of her father? Would they be permitted to speak with her, and give
this little watch from Algiers?

Nevill made his climax by opening the velvet case, and the brown eyes of the Kabyle boy flashed
with uncontrollable admiration, though his face remained immobile. He answered that this was
indeed the house of Mouni's father, and he himself was the brother of Mouni. This was the last
day of her wedding-feast, and in an hour she would go to the home of her husband. The consent
of the latter, as well as of her father, must be asked before strangers could hope to speak
with her. Nevertheless, the Roumis were welcome to enter the yard and watch the entertainment
while Mouni's brother consulted with those most concerned in this business.

The boy stood aside, inviting them to pass through the gate, and the Englishmen availed themselves
of his courtesy, waiting just inside until the red-bearded man came forward. He and his son
consulted together, and then a dark young man in a white burnous was called to join the conclave.
He was a handsome fellow, with a haughtily intelligent face, and an air of breeding superior
to the others.

"This is my sister's husband. He too speaks Arabic, but my father not so much." The boy introduced
his brother-in-law. "Messaud-ben-Arzen is the son of our Caïd," (he spoke proudly). "Will you
tell him and my father what your business is with Mouni?"

Nevill broke into more explanations, and evidently they were satisfactory, for, while the dancing
and the powder play were stopped, and the squatting ranks of guests stared silently, the two
Roumis were conducted into the house.

It was larger than most of the houses in the village, but apart from the stable of the animals
through which the visitors passed, there was but one room, long and narrow, lighted by two
small windows. The darkest corner was the bedroom, which had a platform of stone on which rugs
were spread, and there was a lower mound of dried mud, roughly curtained off from the rest
with two or three red and blue foutahs suspended on ropes made of twisted alfa, or dried grass.
Toward the farther end, a hole in the floor was the family cooking-place, and behind it an
elevation of beaten earth made a wide shelf for a long row of jars shaped like the Roman amphoræ
of two thousand years ago. Pegs driven into one of the walls were hung with gandourahs and
a foutah or two; and of furniture, worthy of that name in the eyes of Europeans, there was none.

At the bedroom end of the room, several women were gathered round a central object of interest,
and though the light was dim after the vivid sunshine outside, the visitors guessed that the
object of interest was the bride. Decorously they paused near the door, while a great deal
of arguing went on, in which the shriller voices of women mingled with the guttural tones of
the men. Nevill could catch no word, for they were talking their own Kabyle tongue which had
come down from their forefathers the Berbers, lords of the land long years before the Arabs
drove them into the high mountains. But at last the group opened, and a young woman stepped
out with half-shy eagerness. She was loaded with jewels, and her foutah was barbarically splendid
in colour, but she was almost as fair as her father; a slim creature with grey eyes, and brown
curly hair that showed under her orange foulard.

Proud of her French, she began talking in that language, welcoming the guests, telling them
how glad she was to see friends of her dear Mademoiselle Soubise. But soon she must be gone
to her husband's house, and already the dark young bridegroom, son of the Caïd, was growing
impatient. There was no time to be lost, if they were to learn anything of Ben Halim's wife.

As a preface to what they wished to ask, Nevill made a presentation speech, placing the velvet
watch-case in Mouni's hand, and she opened it with a kind of moan expressing intense rapture.
Never had she seen anything so beautiful, and she would cheerfully have recalled every phase
of her career from earliest babyhood, if by doing so she could have pleased the givers.

"But yes," she answered to Nevill's first questions, "the beautiful lady whom I served was
the wife of Sidi Cassim ben Halim. At first it was in Algiers that I lived with her, but soon
we left, and went to the country, far, oh, very far away, going towards the south. The house
was like a large farmhouse, and to me as a child--for I was but a child--it seemed fine and
grand. Yet my lady was not pleased. She found it rough, and different from any place to which
she was used. Poor, beautiful lady! She was not happy there. She cried a great deal, and each
day I thought she grew paler than the day before."

Mouni spoke in French, hesitating now and then for a word, or putting in two or three in Arabic,
before she stopped to think, as she grew interested in her subject. Stephen understood almost
all she said, and was too impatient to leave the catechizing to Nevill.

"Whereabouts was this farmhouse?" he asked. "Can't you tell us how to find it?"

Mouni searched her memory. "I was not yet thirteen," she said. "It is nine years since I left
that place; and I travelled in a shut-up carriage, with a cousin, older than I, who had been
already in the house of the lady when I came. She told her mistress of me, and I was sent for,
because I was quick and lively in my ways, and white of face, almost as white as the beautiful
lady herself. My work was to wait on the mistress, and help my cousin, who was her maid. Yamina--that
was my cousin's name--could have told you more about the place in the country than I, for she
was even then a woman. But she died a few months after we both left the beautiful lady. We
left because the master thought my cousin carried a letter for her mistress, which he did not
wish sent; and he gave orders that we should no longer live under his roof."

"Surely you can remember where you went, and how you went, on leaving the farmhouse?" Stephen
persisted.

"Oh yes, we went back to Algiers. But it was a long distance, and took us many days, because
we had only a little money, and Yamina would not spend it in buying tickets for the diligence,
all the way. We walked many miles, and only took a diligence when I cried, and was too tired
to move a step farther. At night we drove sometimes, I remember, and often we rested under
the tents of nomads who were kind to us.

"While I was with the lady, I never went outside the great courtyard. It is not strange that
now, after all these years, I cannot tell you more clearly where the house was. But it was
a great white house, on a hill, and round it was a high wall, with towers that overlooked the
country beneath. And in those towers, which were on either side the big, wide gate, were little
windows through which men could spy, or even shoot if they chose."

"Did you never hear the name of any town that was near?" Stephen went on.

"I do not think there was a town near; yet there was a village not far off to the south. I
saw it from the hill-top, both as I went in at the gate with my cousin, and when, months later,
I was sent away with her. We did not pass through it, because our road was to and from the
north; and I do not even know the name of the village. But there was a cemetery outside it,
where some of the master's ancestors and relations were buried. I heard my lady speak of it
one day, when she cried because she feared to die and be laid there without ever again seeing
her own country and her own people. Oh, and once I heard Yamina talk with another servant about
an oasis called Bou-Saada. It was not near, yet I think it could be reached by diligence in
a long day."

"Good!" broke in Nevill. "There's our first real clue! Bou-Saada I know well. When people who
come and visit me want a glimpse of the desert in a hurry, Bou-Saada is where I take them.
One motors there from Algiers in seven or eight hours--through mountains at first, then on
the fringe of the desert; but it's true, as Mouni says, going by diligence, and walking now
and then, it would be a journey of days. Her description of the house on the hill, looking
down over a village and cemetery, will be a big help. And Ben Halim's name is sure to be known
in the country round, if he ever lived there."

"He may have been gone for years," said Stephen. "And if there's a conspiracy of silence in
Algiers, why not elsewhere?"

"Well, at least we've got a clue, and will follow it up for all we know. By Jove, this is giving
me a new interest in life!" And Nevill rubbed his hands in a boyish way he had. "Tell us what
the beautiful lady was like," he went on to Mouni.

"Her skin was like the snow on our mountain-tops when the sunrise paints the white with rose,"
answered Mouni. "Her hair was redder than the red of henna, and when it was unfastened it hung
down below her waist. Her eyes were dark as a night without moon, and her teeth were little,
little pearls. Yet for all her beauty she was not happy. She wasted the flower of her youth
in sadness, and though the master was noble, and splendid as the sun to look upon, I think
she had no love to give him, perhaps because he was grave and seldom smiled, or because she
was a Roumia and could not suit herself to the ways of true believers."

"Did she keep to her own religion?" asked Stephen.

"That I cannot tell. I was too young to understand. She never talked of such things before
me, but she kept to none of our customs, that I know. In the three months I served her, never
did she leave the house, not even to visit the cemetery on a Friday, as perhaps the master
would have allowed her to do, if she had wished."

"Do you remember if she spoke of a sister?"

"She had a photograph of a little girl, whose picture looked like herself. Once she told me
it was her sister, but the next day the photograph was gone from its place, and I never saw
it again. Yamina thought the master was jealous, because our lady looked at it a great deal."

"Was there any other lady in that house," Nevill ventured, "or was yours the master's only wife?"

"There was no other lady at that time," Mouni replied promptly.

"So far, so good," said Nevill. "Well, Legs, I don't think there's any doubt we've got hold
of the right end of the stick now. Mouni's beautiful lady and Miss Ray's sister Saidee are
certainly one and the same. Ho for the white farmhouse on the hill!"

"Must we go back to Algiers, or can we get to Bou-Saada from here?" Stephen asked.

Nevill laughed. "You are in a hurry! Oh, we can get there from here all right. Would you like
to start now?"

Stephen's face reddened. "Why not, if we've found out all we can from this girl?" He tried
to speak indifferently.

Nevill laughed again. "Very well. There's nothing left then, except to say good-bye to the
fair bride and her relations."

He had expected to get back to Algiers that night, slipping away from the high passes of Grand
Kabylia before dusk, and reaching home late, by lamplight. But now the plan was changed. They
were not to see Algiers again until Stephen had made acquaintance with the desert. By setting
off at once, they might arrive at Bou-Saada some time in the dark hours; and Nevill upset his
old arrangements with good grace. Why should he mind? he asked, when Stephen apologized shame-facedly
for his impatience. Bou-Saada was as good a place as any, except Tlemcen, and this adventure
would give him an excuse for a letter, even two letters, to Josette Soubise. She would want
to hear about Mouni's wedding, and the stately Kabyle home which they had visited. Besides
she would be curious to know whether they found the white farmhouse on the hill, and if so,
what they learned there of the beautiful lady and her mysterious fate. Oh yes, it would certainly
mean two letters at least: one from Bou-Saada, one after the search for the farmhouse; and
Nevill thought himself in luck, for he was not allowed to write often to Josette.

After Michélet the road, a mere shelf projecting along a precipice, slants upward on its way
to the Col de Tirouda, sharp as a knife aimed at the heart of the mountains. From far below
clouds boil up as if the valleys smoked after a destroying fire, and through flying mists flush
the ruddy earth, turning the white film to pinkish gauze. Crimson and purple stones shine like
uncut jewels, and cascades of yellow gorse, under red-flowering trees, pour down over low-growing
white flowers, which embroider the rose-coloured rocks.

Then, suddenly, gone is the green Kabyle mountain-world, gone like a dream the tangle of ridges
and chasms, the bright tapestry of fig trees and silver olives, dark karoubias (the wild locusts
of John the Baptist) and climbing roses. Rough, coarse grass has eaten up the flowers, or winds
sweeping down from the Col have killed them. Only a few stunted trees bend grotesquely to peer
over the sheer sides of shadowed gorges as the road strains up and up, twisting like a scar
left by a whip-lash, on the naked brown shoulders of a slave. So at last it flings a loop over
the Col de Tirouda. Then, round a corner the wand of an invisible magician waves: darkness
and winter cold become summer warmth and light.

This light was the level golden glory of late afternoon when Stephen saw it from Nevill's car;
and so green were the wide stretching meadows and shining rivers far below, that he seemed
to be looking at them through an emerald, as Nero used to gaze at his gardens in Rome. Down
the motor plunged towards the light, threading back and forth a network of zig-zags, until
long before sunset they were in the warm lowlands, racing towards Bordj-bou Arreredj and Msila.
Beyond Msila, they would follow the desert track which would bring them by and by to the oasis
town of Bou-Saada.

If Stephen had been a tourist, guide-book in hand, he would have delighted in the stony road
among the mountains between Bordj-bou Arreredj and Msila; but it was the future, not the past,
which held his thoughts to-day, and he had no more than a passing glance for ruined mosques
and palaces. It was only after nightfall, far beyond the town of Msila, far beyond the vast
plain of the Hodna, that his first dim glimpse of the desert thrilled him out of self-absorption.

Even under the stars which crusted a moonless sky, the vast stretches of billowing sand glimmered
faintly golden as a phosphorescent sea. And among the dimly gleaming waves of that endless
waste the motor tossed, rocking on the rough track like a small boat in mid-ocean.

Nowhere was there any sound except the throbbing of their machinery, and a fairy fiddling of
unseen crickets, which seemed to make the silence more intense, under the great sparkling dome
that hung over the gold.

"Now I am in the place where she wished to be: the golden silence," Stephen said to himself.
And he found himself listening, as if for the call Victoria had promised to give if she needed him.

XXIII

On the top of a pale golden hill, partly sand, partly rock, rises a white wall with square,
squat towers which look north and south, east and west. The wall and the towers together are
like an ivory crown set on the hill's brow, and from a distance the effect is very barbaric,
very impressive, for all the country round about is wild and desolate. Along the southern horizon
the desert goes billowing in waves of gold, and rose, and violet, that fade into the fainter
violet of the sky; and nearer there are the strange little mountains which guard the oasis
of Bou-Saada, like a wall reared to hide a treasure from some dreaded enemy; and even the sand
is heaped in fantastic shapes, resembling a troop of tawny beasts crouched to drink from deep
pools of purple shadow. Northward, the crumpled waste rolls away like prairie land or ocean,
faint green over yellow brown, as if grass seed had been sprinkled sparsely on a stormy sea
and by some miracle had sprouted. And in brown wastes, bright emerald patches gleam, vivid
and fierce as serpents' eyes, ringed round with silver. Far away to the east floats the mirage
of a lake, calm as a blue lagoon. Westward, where desert merges into sky, are high tablelands,
and flat-topped mountains with carved sides, desert architecture, such as might have suggested
Egyptian temples and colossal sphinxes.

Along the rough desert track beneath the hill, where bald stones break through sandy earth,
camels come and go, passing from south to north, from north to south, marching slowly with
rhythmic gait, as if to the sound of music which only they can hear, glancing from side to
side with unutterable superciliousness, looking wistfully here and there at some miniature
oasis thrown like a dark prayer-carpet on the yellow sand. Two or three in a band they go,
led by desert men in blowing white, or again in a long train of twelve or twenty, their legs
a moving lattice, their heart-shaped feet making a soft, swishing "pad-pad," on the hard road.

The little windows of the squat, domed towers on the hill are like eyes that spy upon this
road,--small, dark and secret eyes, very weary of seeing nothing better than camels since old
days when there were razzias, and wars, something worth shutting stout gates upon.

When, after three days of travelling, Victoria came southward along this road, and looked between
the flapping carriage curtains at the white wall that crowned the dull gold hill, her heart
beat fast, for the thought of the golden silence sprang to her mind. The gold did not burn
with the fierce orange flames she had seen in her dreams--it was a bleached and faded gold,
melancholy and almost sinister in colour; yet it would pass for gold; and a great silence brooded
where prairie blended with desert. She asked no questions of Maïeddine, for that was a rule
she had laid upon herself; but when the carriage turned out of the rough road it had followed
so long, and the horses began to climb a stony track which wound up the yellow hill to the
white towers, she could hardly breathe, for the throbbing in her breast. Always she had only
had to shut her eyes to see Saidee, standing on a high white place, gazing westward through
a haze of gold. What if this were the high white place? What if already Si Maïeddine was bringing
her to Saidee?

They had been only three days on the way so far, it was true, and she had been told that the
journey would be very, very long. Still, Arabs were subtle, and Si Maïeddine might have wanted
to test her courage. Looking back upon those long hours, now, towards evening of the third
day, it seemed to Victoria that she had been travelling for a week in the swaying, curtained
carriage, with the slow-trotting mules.

Just at first, there had been some fine scenery to hold her interest; far-off mountains of
grim shapes, dark as iron, and spotted with snow as a leper is spotted with scales. Then had
come low hills, following the mountains (nameless to her, because Maïeddine had not cared to
name them), and blue lakes of iris flowing over wide plains. But by and by the plains flattened
to dullness; a hot wind ceaselessly flapped the canvas curtains, and Lella M'Barka sighed and
moaned with the fatigue of constant motion. There was nothing but plain, endless plain, and
Victoria had been glad, for her own sake as well as the invalid's, when night followed the
first day. They had stopped on the outskirts of a large town, partly French, partly Arab, passing
through and on to the house of a caïd who was a friend of Si Maïeddine's. It was a primitively
simple house, even humble, it seemed to the girl, who had as yet no conception of the bareness
and lack of comfort--according to Western ideas--of Arab country-houses. Nevertheless, when,
after another tedious day, they rested under the roof of a village adel, an official below
a caïd, the first house seemed luxurious in contrast. During this last, third day, Victoria
had been eager and excited, because of the desert, through one gate of which they had entered.
She felt that once in the desert she was so close to Saidee in spirit that they might almost
hear the beating of each other's hearts, but she had not expected to be near her sister in
body for many such days to come: and the wave of joy that surged over her soul as the horses
turned up the golden hill towards the white towers, was suffocating in its force.

The nearer they came, the less impressive seemed the building. After all, it was not the great
Arab stronghold it had looked from far away, but a fortified farmhouse a century old, at most.
Climbing the hill, too, Victoria saw that the golden colour was partly due to a monstrous swarm
of ochre-hued locusts, large as young canary birds, which had settled, thick as yellow snow,
over the ground. They were resting after a long flight, and there were millions and millions
of them, covering the earth in every direction as far as the eye could reach. Only a few were
on the wing, but as the carriage stopped before the closed gates, fat yellow bodies came blundering
against the canvas curtains, or fell plumply against the blinkers over the mules' eyes.

Si Maïeddine got down from the carriage, and shouted, with a peculiar call. There was no answering
sound, but after a wait of two or three minutes the double gates of thick, greyish palm-wood
were pulled open from inside, with a loud creak. For a moment the brown face of an old man,
wrinkled as a monkey's, looked out between the gates, which he held ajar; then, with a guttural
cry, he threw both as far back as he could, and rushing out, bent his white turban over Maïeddine's
hand. He kissed the Sidi's shoulder, and a fold of his burnous, half kneeling, and chattering
Arabic, only a word of which Victoria could catch here and there. As he chattered, other men
came running out, some of them Negroes, all very dark, and they vied with one another in humble
kissing of the master's person, at any spot convenient to their lips.

Politely, though not too eagerly, he made the gracious return of seeming to kiss the back of
his own hand, or his fingers, where they had been touched by the welcoming mouths, but in reality
he kissed air. With a gesture, he stopped the salutations at last, and asked for the Caïd,
to whom, he said, he had written, sending his letter by the diligence.

Then there were passionate jabberings of regret. The Caïd, was away, had been away for days,
fighting the locusts on his other farm, west of Aumale, where there was grain to save. But
the letter had arrived, and had been sent after him, immediately, by a man on horseback. This
evening he would certainly return to welcome his honoured guest. The word was "guest," not
"guests," and Victoria understood that she and Lella M'Barka would not see the master of the
house. So it had been at the other two houses: so in all probability it would be at every house
along their way unless, as she still hoped, they had already come to the end of the journey.

The wide open gates showed a large, bare courtyard, the farmhouse, which was built round it,
being itself the wall. On the outside, no windows were visible except those in the towers,
and a few tiny square apertures for ventilation, but the yard was overlooked by a number of
small glass eyes, all curtained.

As the carriage was driven in, large yellow dogs gathered round it, barking; but the men kicked
them away, and busied themselves in chasing the animals off to a shed, their white-clad backs
all religiously turned as Si Maïeddine helped the ladies to descend. Behind a closed window
a curtain was shaking; and M'Barka had not yet touched her feet to the ground when a negress
ran out of a door that opened in the same distant corner of the house. She was unveiled, like
Lella M'Barka's servants in Algiers, and, with Fafann, she almost carried the tired invalid
towards the open door. Victoria followed, quivering with suspense. What waited for her behind
that door? Would she see Saidee, after all these years of separation?

"I think I'm dying," moaned Lella M'Barka. "They will never take me away from this house alive.
White Rose, where art thou? I need thy hand under my arm."

Victoria tried to think only of M'Barka, and to wait with patience for the supreme moment--if
it were to come. Even if she had wished it, she could not have asked questions now.

XXIV

It was midnight when Nevill's car ran into the beautiful oasis town, guarded by the most curious
mountains of the Algerian desert, and they were at their strangest, cut out clear as the painted
mountains of stage scenery, in the light of the great acetylene lamps. Stephen thought them
like a vast, half-burned Moorish city of mosques and palaces, over which sand-storms had raged
for centuries, leaving only traces here and there of a ruined tower, a domed roof, or an ornamental
frieze.

Of the palms he could see nothing, except the long, dark shape of the oasis among the pale
sand-billows; but early next morning he and Nevill were up and out on the roof of the little
French hotel, while sunrise banners marched across the sky. Stephen had not known that desert
dunes could be bright peach-pink, or that a river flowing over white stones could look like
melted rubies, or that a few laughing Arab girls, ankle-deep in limpid water, could glitter
in morning light like jewelled houris in celestial gardens. But now that he knew, he would
never forget his first desert picture.

The two men stood on the roof among the bubbly domes for a long time, looking over the umber-coloured
town and the flowing oasis which swept to Bou-Saada's brown feet like a tidal wave. It was
not yet time to go and ask questions of the Caïd, whom Nevill knew.

Stephen was advised not to drink coffee in the hotel before starting on their quest. "We shall
have to swallow at least three cups each of café maure at the Caïd's house, and perhaps a dash
of tea flavoured with mint, on top of all, if we don't want to begin by hurting our host's
feelings," Nevill said. So they fasted, and fed their minds by walking through Bou-Saada in
its first morning glory. Already the old part of the town was alive, for Arabs love the day
when it is young, even as they love a young girl for a bride.

The Englishmen strolled into the cool, dark mosque, where heavy Eastern scents of musk and
benzoin had lain all night like fugitives in sanctuary, and where the roof was held up by cypress
poles instead of marble pillars, as in the grand mosques of big cities. By the time they were
ready to leave, dawn had become daylight, and coming out of the brown dusk, the town seemed
flooded with golden wine, wonderful, bubbling, unbelievable gold, with scarlet and purple and
green figures floating in it, brilliant as rainbow fish.

The Caïd lived near the old town, in an adobe house, with a garden which was a tangle of roses
and pomegranate blossoms, under orange trees and palms. And there were narrow paths of hard
sand, the colour of old gold, which rounded up to the centre, and had little runnels of water
on either side. The sunshine dripped between the long fingers of the palm leaves, to trail
in a lacy pattern along the yellow paths, and the sound of the running water was sweet.

It was in this garden that the Caïd gave his guests the three cups of coffee each, followed
by the mint-flavoured tea which Nevill had prophesied. And when they had admired a tame gazelle
which nibbled cakes of almond and honey from their hands, the Caïd insisted on presenting it
to his good friend, Monsieur Caird.

Over the cups of café maure, they talked of Captain Cassim ben Halim, but their host could
or would tell them nothing beyond the fact that Ben Halim had once lived for a little while
not far from Bou-Saada. He had inherited from his father a country house, about fifty kilometres
distant, but he had never stayed there until after retiring from the army, and selling his
place in Algiers. Then he had spent a few months in the country. The Caïd had met him long
ago in Algiers, but had not seen him since. Ben Halim had been ill, and had led a retired life
in the country, receiving no one. Afterward he had gone away, out of Algeria. It was said that
he had died abroad a little later. Of that, the Caïd was not certain; but in any case the house
on the hill was now in the possession of the Caïd of Ain Dehdra, Sidi Elaïd ben Sliman, a distant
cousin of Ben Halim, said to be his only living relative.

Then their host went on to describe the house with the white wall, which looked down upon a
cemetery and a village. His description was almost precisely what Mouni's had been, and there
was no doubt that the place where she had lived with the beautiful lady was the place of which
he spoke. But of the lady herself they could learn nothing. The Caïd had no information to
give concerning Ben Halim's family.

He pressed them to stay, and see all the beauties of the oasis. He would introduce them to
the marabout at El Hamel, and in the evening they should see a special dance of the Ouled Naïls.
But they made excuses that they must get on, and bade the Caïd good-bye after an hour's talk.
As for the gazelle approvoisée, Nevill named her Josette, and hired an Arab to take her to
Algiers by the diligence, with explicit instructions as to food and milk.

Swarms of locusts flew into their faces, and fell into the car, or were burned to death in
the radiator, as they sped along the road towards the white house on the golden hill. They
started from Bou-Saada at ten o'clock, and though the road was far from good, and they were
not always sure of the way, the noon heat was scarcely at its height when Stephen said: "There
it is! That must be the hill and the white wall with the towers."

"Yes, there's the cemetery too," answered Nevill. "We're seeing it on our left side, as we
go, I hope that doesn't mean we're in for bad luck."

"Rot!" said Stephen, promptly. Yet for all his scorn of Nevill's grotesque superstitions, he
was not in a confident mood. He did not expect much good from this visit to Ben Halim's old
country house. And the worst was, that here seemed their last chance of finding out what had
become of Saidee Ray, if not of her sister.

The sound of the motor made a brown face flash over the top of the tall gate, like a Jack popping
out of his box.

"La Sidi, el Caïd?" asked Nevill. "Is he at home?"

The face pretended not to understand; and having taken in every detail of the strangers' appearance
and belongings, including the motor-car, it disappeared.

"What's going to happen now?" Stephen wanted to know.

Nevill looked puzzled. "The creature isn't too polite. Probably it's afraid of Roumis, and
has never been spoken to by one before. But I hope it will promptly scuttle indoors and fetch
its master, or some one with brains and manners."

Several minutes passed, and the yellow motor-car continued to advertise its presence outside
the Caïd's gate by panting strenuously. The face did not show itself again; and there was no
evidence of life behind the white wall, except the peculiarly ominous yelping of Kabyle dogs.

"Let's pound on the gate, and show them we mean to get in," said Stephen, angry-eyed.

But Nevill counselled waiting. "Never be in a hurry when you have to do with Arabs. It's patience
that pays."

"Here come two chaps on horseback," Stephen said, looking down at the desert track that trailed
near the distant cluster of mud houses, which were like square blocks of gold in the fierce
sunshine. "They seem to be staring up at the car. I wonder if they're on their way here!"

"It may be the Caïd, riding home with a friend, or a servant," Nevill suggested. "If so, I'll
bet my hat there are other eyes than ours watching for him, peering out through some spy-hole
in one of the gate-towers."

His guess was right. It was the Caïd coming home, and Maïeddine was with him; for Lella M'Barka
had been obliged to rest for three days at the farmhouse on the hill, and the Caïd's guest
had accompanied him before sunrise this morning to see a favourite white mehari, or racing
camel, belonging to Sidi Elaïd ben Sliman, which was very ill, in care of a wise man of the
village. Now the mehari was dead, and as Maïeddine seemed impatient to get back, they were
riding home, in spite of the noon heat.

Maïeddine had left the house reluctantly this morning. Not that he could often see Victoria,
who was nursing M'Barka, and looking so wistful that he guessed she had half hoped to find
her sister waiting behind the white wall on the golden hill.

Though he could expect little of the girl's society, and there was little reason to fear that
harm would come to her, or that she would steal away in his absence, still he had hated to
ride out of the gate and leave her. If the Caïd had not made a point of his coming, he would
gladly have stayed behind. Now, when he looked up and saw a yellow motor-car at the gate, he
believed that his feeling had been a presentiment, a warning of evil, which he ought so have
heeded.

He and the Caïd were a long way off when he caught sight of the car, and heard its pantings,
carried by the clear desert air. He could not be certain of its identity, but he prided himself
upon his keen sight and hearing, and where they failed, instinct stepped in. He was sure that
it was the car which had waited for Stephen Knight when the Charles Quex came in, the car of
Nevill Caird, about whom he had made inquiries before leaving Algiers. Maïeddine knew, of course,
that Victoria had been to the Djenan el Djouad, and he was intensely suspicious as well as
jealous of Knight, because of the letter Victoria had written. He knew also that the two Englishmen
had been asking questions at the Hotel de la Kasbah; and he was not surprised to see the yellow
car in front of the Caïd's gates. Now that he saw it, he felt dully that he had always known
it would follow him.

If only he had been in the house, it would not have mattered. He would have been able to prevent
Knight and Caird from seeing Victoria, or even from having the slightest suspicion that she
was, or had been, there. It was the worst of luck that he should be outside the gates, for
now he could not go back while the Englishmen were there. Knight would certainly recognize
him, and guess everything that he did not know.

Maïeddine thought very quickly. He dared not ride on, lest the men in the car should have a
field-glass. The only thing was to let Ben Sliman go alone, so that, if eyes up there on the
hill were watching, it might seem that the Caïd was parting from some friend who lived in the
village. He would have to trust Elaïd's discretion and tact, as he knew already he might trust
his loyalty. Only--the situation was desperate. Tact, and an instinct for the right word, the
frank look, were worth even more than loyalty at this moment. And one never quite knew how
far to trust another man's judgment. Besides, the mischief might have been done before Ben
Sliman could arrive on the scene; and at the thought of what might happen, Maïeddine's heart
seemed to turn in his breast. He had never known a sensation so painful to body and mind, and
it was hideous to feel helpless, to know that he could do only harm, and not good, by riding
up the hill. Nevertheless, he said to himself, if he should see Victoria come out to speak
with these men, he would go. He would perhaps kill them, and the chauffeur too. Anything rather
than give up the girl now; for the sharp stab of the thought that he might lose her, that Stephen
Knight might have her, made him ten times more in love than he had been before. He wished that
Allah might strike the men in the yellow car dead; although, ardent Mussulman as he was, he
had no hope that such a glorious miracle would happen.

"It is those men from Algiers of whom I told thee," he said to the Caïd. "I must stop below.
They must not recognize me, or the dark one who was on the ship, will guess. Possibly he suspects
already that I stand for something in this affair."

"Who can have sent them to my house?" Ben Sliman wondered. The two drew in their horses and
put on the manner of men about to bid each other good-bye.

"I hope, I am almost sure, that they know nothing of her, or of me. Probably, when inquiring
about Ben Halim, in order to hear of her sister, and so find out where she has gone, they learned
only that Ben Halim once lived here. If thy servants are discreet, it may be that no harm will
come from this visit."

"They will be discreet. Have no fear," the Caïd assured him. Yet it was on his tongue to say;
"the lady herself, when she hears the sound of the car, may do some unwise thing." But he did
not finish the sentence. Even though the young girl--whom he had not seen--was a Roumia, obsessed
with horrible, modern ideas, which at present it would be dangerous to try and correct, he
could not discuss her with Maïeddine. If she showed herself to the men, it could not be helped.
What was to be, would be. Mektûb!

"Far be it from me to distrust my friend's servants," said Maïeddine; "but if in their zeal
they go too far and give an impression of something to hide, it would be as bad as if they
let drop a word too many."

"I will ride on and break any such impression if it has been made," Ben Sliman consoled him.
"Trust me. I will be as gracious to these Roumis as if they were true believers."

"I do trust thee completely," answered the younger man. "While they are at thy gates, or within
them, I must wait with patience. I cannot remain here in the open--yet I wish to be within
sight, that I may see with my own eyes all that happens. What if I ride to one of the black
tents, and ask for water to wash the mouth of my horse? If they have it not, it is no matter."

"Thine is a good thought," said Ben Sliman, and rode on, putting his slim white Arab horse
to a trot.

To the left from the group of adobe houses, and at about the same distance from the rough track
on which they had been riding, was a cluster of nomad tents, like giant bats with torpid wings
spread out ink-black on the gold of the desert. A little farther off was another small encampment
of a different tribe; and their tents were brown, striped with black and yellow. They looked
like huge butterflies resting. But Maïeddine thought of no such similes. He was a child of
the Sahara, and used to the tents and the tent-dwellers. His own father, the Agha, lived half
the year in a great tent, when he was with his douar, and Maïeddine had been born under the
roof of camel's hair. His own people and these people were not kin, and their lives lay far
apart; yet a man of one nomad tribe understands all nomads, though he be a chief's son, and
they as poor as their own ill-fed camels. His pride was his nomad blood, for all men of the
Sahara, be they princes or camel-drivers, look with scorn upon the sedentary people, those
of the great plain of the Tell, and fat eaters of ripe dates in the cities.

The eight or ten black tents were gathered round one, a little higher, a little less ragged
than the others--the tent of the Kebir, or headman; but it was humble enough. There would have
been room and to spare for a dozen such under the tente sultane of the Agha, at his douar south
of El Aghouat.

As Maïeddine rode up, a buzz of excitement rose in the hive. Some one ran to tell the Kebir
that a great Sidi was arriving, and the headman came out from his tent, where he had been meditating
or dozing after the chanting of the midday prayer--the prayer of noon.

He was a thin, elderly man, with an eagle eye to awe his women-folk, and an old burnous of
sheep's wool, which was of a deep cream colour because it had not been washed for many years.
Yet he smelt good, with a smell that was like the desert, and there was no foul odour in the
miniature douar, as in European dwellings of the very poor. There is never a smell of uncleanliness
about Arabs, even those people who must perform most of the ablutions prescribed by their religion
with sand instead of water. But the Saharian saying is that the desert purifies all things.

The Kebir was polite though not servile to Maïeddine, and while the horse borrowed from the
Caïd was having its face economically sprinkled with water from a brown goat-skin, black coffee
was being hospitably prepared for the guest by the women of the household, unveiled of course,
as are all women of the nomad tribes, except those of highest birth.

Maïeddine did not want the coffee, but it would have been an insult to refuse, and he made
laboured conversation with the Kebir, his eyes and thoughts fixed on the Caïd's gate and the
yellow motor-car. He hardly saw the tents, beneath whose low-spread black wings eyes looked
out at him, as the bright eyes of chickens look out from under the mother-hen's feathers. They
were all much alike, though the Kebir's, as befitted his position, was the best, made of wide
strips of black woollen material stitched together, spread tightly over stout poles, and pegged
down into the hard sand. There was a partition dividing the tent in two, a partition made of
one or two old haïcks, woven by hand, and if Maïeddine had been interested, he could have seen
his host's bedding arranged for the day; a few coarse rugs and frechias piled up carelessly,
out of the way. There was a bale of camels' hair, ready for weaving, and on top of it a little
boy was curled up asleep. From the tent-poles hung an animal's skin, drying, and a cradle of
netted cords in which swung and slept a swaddled baby no bigger than a doll. It was a girl,
therefore its eyes were blackened with kohl, and its eyebrows neatly sketched on with paint,
as they had been since the unfortunate day of its birth, when the father grumbled because it
was not a "child," but only a worthless female.

The mother of the four weeks' old doll, a fine young woman tinkling with Arab silver, left
her carpet-weaving to grind the coffee, while her withered mother-in-law brightened with brushwood
the smouldering fire of camel-dung. The women worked silently, humbly, though they would have
been chattering if the great Sidi stranger had not been there; but two or three little children
in orange and scarlet rags played giggling among the rubbish outside the tent--a broken bassour-frame,
or palanquin, waiting to be mended; date boxes, baskets, and wooden plates; old kous-kous bowls,
bundles of alfa grass, chicken feathers, and an infant goat with its mother.

The sound of children's shrill laughter, which passed unnoticed by the parents, who had it
always in their ears, rasped Maïeddine's nerves, and he would have liked to strike or kick
the babies into silence. Most Arabs worship children, even girls, and are invariably kind to
them, but to-day Maïeddine hated anything that ran about disturbingly and made a noise.

Now the Caïd had reached the gate, and was talking to the men in the motor-car. Would he send
them away? No, the gate was being opened by a servant. Ben Sliman must have invited the Roumis
in. Possibly it was a wise thing to do, yet how dangerous, how terribly dangerous, with Victoria
perhaps peeping from one of the tiny windows at the women's corner of the house, which looked
on the court! They could not see her there, but she could see them, and if she were tired of
travelling and dancing attendance on a fidgety invalid--if she repented her promise to keep
the secret of this journey?

Maïeddine's experience of women inclined him to think that they always did forget their promises
to a man the moment his back was turned. Victoria was different from the women of his race,
or those he had met in Paris, yet she was, after all, a woman; and there was no truer saying
than that you might more easily prophesy the direction of the wind than say what a woman was
likely to do. The coffee which the Kebir handed him made him feel sick, as if he had had a
touch of the sun. What was happening up there on the hill, behind the gates which stood half
open? What would she do--his Rose of the West?

XXV

It was a relief to Stephen and Nevill to see one of the horsemen coming up the rough hill-track
to the gate, and to think that they need no longer wait upon the fears or inhospitable whims
of the Arab servants on the other side of the wall.

As soon as the rider came near enough for his features to be sketched in clearly, Nevill remembered
having noticed him at one or two of the Governor's balls, where all Arab dignitaries, even
such lesser lights as caïds and adels show themselves. But they had never met. The man was
not one of the southern chiefs whom Nevill Caird had entertained at his own house.

Stephen thought that he had never seen a more personable man as the Caïd rode up to the car,
saluting courteously though with no great warmth.

His face was more tanned than very dark by nature, but it seemed brown in contrast to his light
hazel eyes. His features were commanding, if not handsome, and he sat his horse well. Altogether
he was a notable figure in his immensely tall white turban, wound with pale grey-brown camel's-hair
rope, his grey cloth burnous, embroidered with gold, flung back over an inner white burnous,
his high black boots, with wrinkled brown tops, and his wonderful Kairouan hat of light straw,
embroidered with a leather appliqué of coloured flowers and silver leaves, steeple-crowned,
and as big as a cart-wheel, hanging on his shoulders.

He and Nevill politely wished the blessings of Allah and Mohammed his Prophet upon each other,
and Nevill then explained the errand which had brought him and his friend to the Caïd's house.

The Caïd's somewhat heavy though intelligent face did not easily show surprise. It changed
not at all, though Stephen watched it closely.

"Thou art welcome to hear all I can tell of my dead relation, Ben Halim," he said. "But I know
little that everybody does not know."

"It is certain, then, that Ben Halim is dead?" asked Nevill. "We had hoped that rumour lied."

"He died on his way home after a pilgrimage to Mecca," gravely replied the Caïd.

"Ah!" Nevill caught him up quickly. "We heard that it was in Constantinople."

Ben Sliman's expression was slightly strained. He glanced from Nevill's boyish face to Stephen's
dark, keen one, and perhaps fancied suspicion in both. If he had intended to let the Englishmen
drive away in their motor-car without seeing the other side of his white wall, he now changed
his mind. "If thou and thy friend care to honour this poor farm of mine by entering the gates,
and drinking coffee with me," he said, "We will afterwards go down below the hill to the cemetery
where my cousin's body lies buried. His tombstone will show that he was El Hadj, and that he
had reached Mecca. When he was in Constantinople, he had just returned from there."

Possibly, having given the invitation by way of proving that there was nothing to conceal,
Ben Sliman hoped it would not be accepted; but he was disappointed. Before the Caïd had reached
the top of the hill, Nevill had told his chauffeur to stop the motor, therefore the restless
panting had long ago ceased, and when Ben Sliman looked doubtfully at the car, as if wondering
how it was to be got in without doing damage to his wall, Nevill said that the automobile might
stay where it was. Their visit would not be long.

"But the longer the better," replied the Caïd. "When I have guests, it pains me to see them go."

He shouted a word or two in Arabic, and instantly the gates were opened. The sketchily clad
brown men inside had only been waiting for a signal.

"I regret that I cannot ask my visitors into the house itself, as I have illness there," Ben
Sliman announced; "but we have guest rooms here in the gate-towers. They are not what I could
wish for such distinguished personages, but thou canst see, Sidi, thou and thy friend, that
this is a simple farmhouse. We make no pretension to the luxury of towns, but we do what we can."

As he spoke, the brown men were scuttling about, one unfastening the door of a little tower,
which stuck as if it had not been opened for a long time, another darting into the house, which
appeared silent and tenantless, a third and fourth running to a more distant part, and vanishing
also through a dark doorway.

The Caïd quickly ushered his guests into the tower room, but not so quickly that the eyes of
a girl, looking through a screened window, did not see and recognize both. The servant who
had gone ahead unbarred a pair of wooden shutters high up in the whitewashed walls of the tower,
which was stiflingly close, with a musty, animal odour. As the opening of the shutters gave
light, enormous black-beetles which seemed to Stephen as large as pigeon's eggs, crawled out
from cracks between wall and floor, stumbling awkwardly about, and falling over each other.
It was a disgusting sight, and did not increase the visitors' desire to accept the Caïd's hospitality
for any length of time. It may be that he had thought of this. But even if he had, the servants
were genuinely enthusiastic in their efforts to make the Roumis at home. The two who had run
farthest returned soonest. They staggered under a load of large rugs wrapped in unbleached
sheeting, and a great sack stuffed full of cushions which bulged out at the top. The sheeting
they unfastened, and, taking no notice of the beetles, hurriedly spread on the rough floor
several beautifully woven rugs of bright colours. Then, having laid four or five on top of
one another, they clawed the cushions out of the sack, and placed them as if on a bed.

Hardly had they finished, when the first servant who had disappeared came back, carrying over
his arm a folding table, and dishes in his hands. The only furniture already in the tower consisted
of two long, low wooden benches without backs; and as the servant from the house set up the
folding table, he who had opened the windows placed the benches, one on either side. At the
same moment, through the open door, a man could be seen running with a live lamb flung over
his shoulder.

"Good heavens, what is he going to do with that?" Stephen asked, stricken with a presentiment.

"I'm afraid," Nevill answered quickly in English, "that it's going to be killed for our entertainment."
His pink colour faded, and in Arabic he begged the Caïd to give orders that, if the lamb were
for them, its life be spared, as they were under a vow never to touch meat. This was the first
excuse he could think of; and when, to his joy, a message was sent after the slayer of innocence,
he added that, very unfortunately, they had a pressing engagement which would tear them away
from the Caïd's delightful house all too soon.

Perhaps the Caïd's face expressed no oppressive regret, yet he said kindly that he hoped to
keep his guests at least until next morning. In the cool of the day they would see the cemetery;
they would return, and eat the evening meal. It would then be time to sleep. And with a gesture
he indicated the rugs and cushions, under which the beetles were now buried like mountain-dwellers
beneath an avalanche.

Nevill, still pale, thanked his host earnestly, complimented the rugs, and assured the Caïd
that, of course, they would be extraordinarily comfortable, but even such inducements did not
make it possible for them to neglect their duty elsewhere.

"In any case we shall now eat and drink together," said Ben Sliman, pointing to the table,
and towards a servant now arriving from the house with a coffee-tray. The dishes had been set
down on the bare board, and one contained the usual little almond cakes, the other, a conserve
of some sort bathed in honey, where already many flies were revelling. The servant who had
spread the table, quietly pulled the flies out by their wings, or killed them on the edge of
the dish.

Nevill, whiter than before, accepted cordially, and giving Stephen a glance of despair, which
said: "Noblesse oblige," he thrust his fingers into the honey, where there were fewest flies,
and took out a sweetmeat. Stephen did the same. All three ate, and drank sweet black café maure.
Once the Caïd turned to glance at something outside the door, and his secretive, light grey
eyes were troubled. As they ate and drank, they talked, Nevill tactfully catechizing, the Caïd
answering with pleasant frankness. He did not inquire why they wished to have news of Ben Halim,
who had once lived in the house for a short time, and had now long been dead. Perhaps he wished
to give the Roumis a lesson in discretion; but as their friendliness increased over the dripping
sweets, Nevill ventured to ask a crucial question. What had become of Ben Halim's American wife?

Then, for the first time, the Caïd frowned, very slightly, but it was plain to see he thought
a liberty had been taken which, as host, he was unable to resent.

"I know nothing of my dead cousin's family," he said. "No doubt its members went with him,
if not to Mecca, at least a part of the way, and if any such persons wished to return to Europe
after his death, it is certain they would have been at liberty to do so. This house my cousin
wished me to have, and I took possession of it in due time, finding it empty and in good order.
If you search for any one, I should advise searching in France or, perhaps, in America. Unluckily,
there I cannot help. But when it is cool, we will go to the cemetery. Let us go after the prayer,
the prayer of Moghreb."

But Nevill was reluctant. So was Stephen, when the proposal was explained. They wished to go
while it was still hot, or not at all. It may be that even this eccentric proposal did not
surprise or grieve the Caïd, though as a rule he was not fond of being out of doors in the
glare of the sun.

He agreed to the suggestion that the motor-car should take all three down the hill, but said
that he would prefer to walk back.

The "teuf-teuf" of the engine began once more outside the white gates; and for the second time
Victoria flew to the window, pressing her face against the thick green moucharabia which excluded
flies and prevented any one outside from seeing what went on within.

"Calm thyself, O Rose," urged the feeble voice of Lella M'Barka. "Thou hast said these men
are nothing to thee."

"One is my friend," the girl pleaded, with a glance at the high couch of rugs on which M'Barka lay.

"A young girl cannot have a man for a friend. He may be a lover or a husband, but never a friend.
Thou knowest this in thy heart, O Rose, and thou hast sworn to me that never hast thou had
a lover."

Victoria did not care to argue. "I am sure he has come here to try and find me. He is anxious.
That is very good of him--all the more, because we are nothing to each other. How can I let
him go away without a word? It is too hard-hearted. I do think, if Si Maïeddine were here,
he would say so too. He would let me see Mr. Knight and just tell him that I'm perfectly safe
and on the way to my sister. That once she lived in this house, and I hoped to find her here,
but----"

"Maïeddine would not wish thee to tell the young man these things, or any other things, or
show thyself to him at all," M'Barka persisted, lifting herself on the bed in growing excitement.
"Dost thou not guess, he runs many dangers in guiding thee to the wife of a man who is as one
dead? Dost thou wish to ruin him who risks his whole future to content thee?"

"No, of course I would do nothing which could bring harm to Si Maïeddine," Victoria said, the
eagerness dying out of her voice. "I have kept my word with him. I have let nobody know--nobody
at all. But we could trust Mr. Knight and Mr. Caird. And to see them there, in the courtyard,
and let them go--it is too much!"

"Why shouldst thou consider me, whom thou hast known but a few days, when thou wouldst be hurrying
on towards thy sister Saïda? Yet it will surely be my death if thou makest any sign to those
men. My heart would cease to beat. It beats but weakly now."

With a sigh, Victoria turned away from the moucharabia, and crossing the room to M'Barka, sat
down on a rug by the side of her couch. "I do consider thee," she said. "If it were not for
thee and Si Maïeddine, I might not be able to get to Saidee at all; so I must not mind being
delayed a few days. It is worse for thee than for me, because thou art suffering."

"When a true believer lies ill for more than three days, his sins are all forgiven him," M'Barka
consoled herself. She put out a hot hand, and laid it on Victoria's head. "Thou art a good
child. Thou hast given up thine own will to do what is right."

"I'm not quite sure at this moment that I am doing what is right," murmured Victoria. "But
I can't make thee more ill than thou art, so I must let Mr. Knight go. And probably I shall
never see him, never hear of him again. He will look for me, and then he will grow tired, and
perhaps go home to England before I can write to let him know I am safe with Saidee." Her voice
broke a little. She bent down her head, and there were tears in her eyes.

She heard the creaking of the gate as it shut. The motor-car had gone panting away. For a moment
it seemed as if her heart would break. Just one glimpse had she caught of Stephen's face, and
it had looked to her more than ever like the face of a knight who would fight to the death
for a good cause. She had not quite realized how noble a face it was, or how hard it would
be to let it pass out of her life. He would always hate her if he guessed she had sat there,
knowing he had come so far for her sake?--she was sure it was for her sake--and had made no
sign. But he would not guess. And it was true, as Lella M'Barka said, he was nothing to her.
Saidee was everything. And she was going to Saidee. She must think only of Saidee, and the
day of their meeting.

        *        *        *        *        *        *        *

Stephen had never seen an Arab cemetery; and it seemed to him that this Mussulman burial-place,
scattered over two low hills, in the midst of desert wastes, was beautiful and pathetic. The
afternoon sunshine beat upon the koubbahs of marabouts, and the plastered graves or headstones
of less important folk; but so pearly pale were they all that the golden quality of the light
was blanched as if by some strange, white magic, and became like moonlight shining on a field
of snow.

There were no names on any of the tombs, even the grandest. Here and there on a woman's grave
was a hand of Fatma, or a pair of the Prophet's slippers; and on those of a few men were turbans
carved in marble, to tell that the dead had made pilgrimage to Mecca. All faces were turned
towards the sacred city, as Mussulmans turn when they kneel to pray, in mosque or in desert;
and the white slabs, narrow or broad, long or short, ornamental or plain, flat or roofed with
fantastic maraboutic domes, were placed very close together. At one end of the cemetery, only
bits of pottery marked the graves; yet each bit was a little different from the other, meaning
as much to those who had placed them there as names and epitaphs in European burial grounds.
On the snowy headstones and flat platforms, drops of rose-coloured wax from little candles,
lay like tears of blood shed by the mourners, and there was a scattered spray of faded orange
blossoms, brought by some loving hand from a far-away garden in an oasis.

"Here lies my cousin, Cassim ben Halim," said the Caïd, pointing to a grave comparatively new,
surmounted at the head with a carved turban. Nearer to it than any other tomb was that of a
woman, beautified with the Prophet's slippers.

"Is it possible that his wife lies beside him?" Stephen made Nevill ask.

"It is a lady of his house. I can say no more. When his body was brought here, hers was brought
also, in a coffin, which is permitted to the women of Islam, with the request that it should
be placed near my cousin's tomb. This was done; and it is all I can tell, because it is all
I know."

The Arab looked the Englishman straight in the eyes as he answered; and Stephen felt that in
this place, so simple, so peaceful, so near to nature's heart, it would be difficult for a
man to lie to another, even though that man were a son of Islam, the other a "dog of a Christian."
For the first time he began to believe that Cassim ben Halim had in truth died, and that Victoria
Ray's sister was perhaps dead also. Her death alone could satisfactorily explain her long silence.
And against the circumstantial evidence of this little grave, adorned with the slippers of
the Prophet, there was only a girl's impression--Victoria's feeling that, if Saidee were dead,
she "must have known."

The two friends stood for a while by the white graves, where the sunshine lay like moonlight
on snow; and then, because there was nothing more for them to do in that place, they thanked
the Caïd, and made ready to go their way. Again he politely refused their offer to drive him
up to his own gate, and bade them good-bye when they had got into the car. He stood and watched
it go bumping away over the rough, desert road, pieces of which had been gnawed off by a late
flood, as a cake is bitten round the edge by a greedy child.

They had had enough of motor-cars for that day, up there on the hill! The Caïd was glad when
the sound died. The machine was no more suited to his country, he thought, than were the men
of Europe who tore about the world in it, trying to interfere in other people's business.

"El hamdou-lillah! God be praised!" he whispered, as the yellow automobile vanished from sight
and Maïeddine came out from the cluster of black tents in the yellow sand.

XXVI

Next day, Lella M'Barka was well enough to begin the march again. They started, in the same
curtained carriage, at that moment before dawn while it is still dark, and a thin white cloth
seems spread over the dead face of night. Then day came trembling along the horizon, and the
shadows of horses and carriage grew long and grotesquely deformed. It was the time, M'Barka
said, when Chitan the devil, and the evil Djenoun that possess people's minds and drive them
insane, were most powerful; and she would hardly listen when Victoria answered that she did
not believe in Djenoun.

In a long day, they came to Bou-Saada, reaching the hidden oasis after nightfall, and staying
in the house of the Caïd with whom Stephen and Nevill had talked of Ben Halim. Lella M'Barka
was related to the Caïd's wife, and was so happy in meeting a cousin after years of separation,
that the fever in her blood was cooled; and in the morning she was able to go on.

Then came two days of driving to Djelfa, at first in a country strange enough to be Djinn-haunted,
a country of gloomy mountains, and deep water-courses like badly healed wounds; passing through
dry river-beds, and over broken roads with here and there a bordj where men brought water to
the mules, in skins held together with ropes of straw. At last, after a night, not too comfortable,
spent in a dismal bordj, they came to a wilderness which any fairytale-teller would have called
the end of the world. The road had dwindled to a track across gloomy desert, all the more desolate,
somehow, because of the dry asparto grass growing thinly among stones. Nothing seemed to live
or move in this world, except a lizard that whisked its grey-green length across the road,
a long-legged bird which hopped gloomily out of the way, or a few ragged black and white sheep
with nobody to drive them. In the heat of the day nothing stirred, not even the air, though
the distance shimmered and trembled with heat; but towards night jackals padded lithely from
one rock shelter to another. The carriage drove through a vast plain, rimmed with far-away
mountains, red as porphyry, but fading to purple at the horizon. Victoria felt that she would
never come to the end of this plain, that it must finish only with eternity; and she wished
in an occasional burst of impatience that she were travelling in Nevill Caird's motor-car.
She could reach her sister in a third of the time! She told herself that these thoughts were
ungrateful to Maïeddine, who was doing so much for her sake, and she kept up her spirits whether
they dragged on tediously, or stopped by the way to eat, or to let M'Barka rest. She tried
to control her restlessness, but feared that Maïeddine saw it, for he took pains to explain,
more than once, how necessary was the detour they were making. Along this route he had friends
who were glad to entertain them at night, and give them mules or horses, and besides, it was
an advantage that the way should be unfrequented by Europeans. He cheered her by describing
the interest of the journey when, by and by, she would ride a mehari, sitting in a bassour,
made of branches heated and bent into shape like a great cage, lined and draped with soft haoulis
of beautiful colours, and comfortably cushioned. It would not be long now before they should
come to the douar of his father the Agha, beyond El Aghouat. She would have a wonderful experience
there; and according to Maïeddine, all the rest of the journey would be an enchantment. Never
for a moment would he let her tire. Oh, he would promise that she should be half sorry when
the last day came! As for Lella M'Barka, the Rose of the West need not fear, for the bassour
was easy as a cradle to a woman of the desert; and M'Barka, rightfully a princess of Touggourt,
was desert-born and bred.

Queer little patches of growing grain, or miniature orchards enlivened the dull plain round
the ugly Saharian town of Djelfa, headquarters of the Ouled Naïls. The place looked unprepossessingly
new and French, and obtrusively military; dismal, too, in the dusty sand which a wailing wind
blew through the streets; but scarcely a Frenchman was to be seen, except the soldiers. Many
Arabs worked with surprising briskness at the loading or unloading of great carts, men of the
Ouled Naïls, with eyes more mysterious than the eyes of veiled women; tall fellows wearing
high shoes of soft, pale brown leather made for walking long distances in heavy sand; and Maïeddine
said that there was great traffic and commerce between Djelfa and the M'Zab country, where
she and he and M'Barka would arrive presently, after passing his father's douar.

Maïeddine was uneasy until they were out of Djelfa, for, though few Europeans travelled that
way, and the road is hideous for motors, still it was not impossible that a certain yellow
car had slipped in before them, to lie in wait. The Caïd's house, where they spent that night,
was outside the town, and behind its closed doors and little windows there was no fear of intruders.
It was good to be sure of shelter and security under a friend's roof; and so far, in spite
of the adventure at Ben Sliman's, everything was going well enough. Only--Maïeddine was a little
disappointed in Victoria's manner towards himself. She was sweet and friendly, and grateful
for all he did, but she did not seem interested in him as a man. He felt that she was eager
to get on, that she was counting the days, not because of any pleasure they might bring in
his society, but to make them pass more quickly. Still, with the deep-rooted patience of the
Arab, he went on hoping. His father, Agha of the Ouled-Serrin, reigned in the desert like a
petty king. Maïeddine thought that the douar and the Agha's state must impress her; and the
journey on from there would be a splendid experience, different indeed from this interminable
jogging along, cramped up in a carriage, with M'Barka sighing, or leaning a heavy head on the
girl's shoulder. Out in the open, Victoria in her bassour, he on the horse which he would take
from his father's goum, travelling would be pure joy. And Maïeddine had been saving up many
surprises for that time, things he meant to do for the girl, which must turn her heart towards him.

Beyond Djelfa, on the low mountains that alone broke the monotony of the dismal plain, little
watch-towers rose dark along the sky-line--watch-towers old as Roman days. Sometimes the travellers
met a mounted man wearing a long, hooded cloak over his white burnous; a cavalier of the Bureau
Arabe, or native policeman on his beat, under the authority of a civil organization more powerful
in the Sahara than the army. These men, riding alone, saluted Si Maïeddine almost with reverence,
and Lella M'Barka told Victoria, with pride, that her cousin was immensely respected by the
French Government. He had done much for France in the far south, where his family influence
was great, and he had adjusted difficulties between the desert men and their rulers. "He is
more tolerant than I, to those through whom Allah has punished us for our sins," said the woman
of the Sahara. "I was brought up in an older school; and though I may love one of the Roumis,
as I have learned to love thee, oh White Rose, I cannot love whole Christian nations. Maïeddine
is wiser than I, yet I would not change my opinions for his; unless, as I often think, he really----"
she stopped suddenly, frowning at herself. "This dreariness is not our desert," she explained
eagerly to the girl, as the horses dragged the carriage over the sandy earth, through whose
hard brown surface the harsh, colourless blades of drinn pricked like a few sparse hairs on
the head of a shrivelled old man. "In the Sahara, there are four kinds of desert, because Allah
put four angels in charge, giving each his own portion. The Angel of the Chebka was cold of
nature, with no kindness in his heart, and was jealous of the others; so the Chebka is desolate,
sown with sharp rocks which were upheaved from under the earth before man came, and its dark
ravines are still haunted by evil spirits. The Angel of the Hameda was careless, and forgot
to pray for cool valleys and good water, so the Hameda hardened into a great plateau of rock.
The Angel of the Gaci was loved by a houri, who appeared to him and danced on the firm sand
of his desert. Vanishing, she scattered many jewels, and fruits from the celestial gardens
which turned into beautifully coloured stones as they fell, and there they have lain from that
day to this. But best of all was the Angel of the Erg, our desert--desert of the shifting dunes,
never twice the same, yet always more beautiful to-day than yesterday; treacherous to strangers,
but kind as the bosom of a mother to her children. The first three angels were men, but the
fourth and best is the angel woman who sows the heaven with stars, for lamps to light her own
desert, and all the world beside, even the world of infidels."

M'Barka and Maïeddine both talked a great deal of El Aghouat, which M'Barka called the desert
pearl, next in beauty to her own wild Touggourt, and Maïeddine laughingly likened the oasis-town
to Paris. "It is the Paris of our Sahara," he said, "and all the desert men, from Caïds to
camel-drivers, look forward to its pleasures."

He planned to let the girl see El Aghouat for the first time at sunset. That was to be one
of his surprises. By nature he was dramatic; and the birth of the sun and the death of the
sun are the great dramas of the desert. He wished to be the hero of such a drama for Victoria,
with El Aghouat for his background; for there, he was leading her in at the gate of his own
country.

When they had passed the strange rock-shape known as the Chapeau de Gendarme, and the line
of mountains which is like the great wall of China, Maïeddine defied the danger he had never
quite ceased to fear during the five long days since the adventure on the other side of Bou-Saada.
He ordered the carriage curtains to be rolled up as tightly as they would go, and Victoria
saw a place so beautiful that it was like the secret garden of some Eastern king. It was as
if they had driven abruptly over the edge of a vast bowl half filled with gold dust, and ringed
round its rim with quivering rosy flames. Perhaps the king of the garden had a dragon whose
business it was to keep the fire always alight to prevent robbers from coming to steal the
gold dust; and so ardently had it been blazing there for centuries, that all the sky up to
the zenith had caught fire, burning with so dazzling an intensity of violet that Victoria thought
she could warm her hands in its reflection on the sand. In the azure crucible diamonds were
melting, boiling up in a radiant spray, but suddenly the violet splendour was cooled, and after
a vague quivering of rainbow tints, the celestial rose tree of the Sahara sunset climbed blossoming
over the whole blue dome, east, west, north and south.

In the bottom of the golden bowl, there was a river bed to cross, on a bridge of planks, but
among the burning stones trickled a mere runnel of water, bright as spilt mercury. And Maïeddine
chose the moment when the minarets of El Aghouat rose from a sea of palms, to point out the
strange, pale hills crowned by old koubbahs of marabouts and the military hospital. He told
the story of the Arab revolt of fifty odd years ago; and while he praised the gallantry of
the French, Victoria saw in his eyes, heard in the thrill of his voice, that his admiration
was for his own people. This made her thoughtful, for though it was natural enough to sympathize
with the Arabs who had stood the siege and been reconquered after desperate fighting, until
now his point of view had seemed to be the modern, progressive, French point of view. Quickly
the question flashed through her mind--"Is he letting himself go, showing me his real self,
because I'm in the desert with him, and he thinks I'll never go back among Europeans?"

She shivered a little at the thought, but she put it away with the doubt of Maïeddine that
came with it. Never had he given her the least cause to fear him, and she would go on trusting
in his good faith, as she had trusted from the first.

Still, there was that creeping chill, in contrast to the warm glory of the sunset, which seemed
to shame it by giving a glimpse of the desert's heart, which was Maïeddine's heart. She hurried
to say how beautiful was El Aghouat; and that night, in the house of the Caïd, (an uncle of
Maïeddine's on his mother's side), as the women grouped round her, hospitable and admiring,
she reproached herself again for her suspicion. The wife of the Caïd was dignified and gentle.
There were daughters growing up, and though they knew nothing, or seemed to know nothing, of
Saidee, they were sure that, if Maïeddine knew, all was well. Because they were his cousins
they had seen and been seen by him, and the young girls poured out all the untaught romance
of their little dim souls in praise of Maïeddine. Once they were on the point of saying something
which their mother seemed to think indiscreet, and checked them quickly. Then they stopped,
laughing; and their laughter, like the laughter of little children, was so contagious that
Victoria laughed too.

There was some dreadful European furniture of sprawling, "nouveau art" design in the guest-room
which she and Lella M'Barka shared; and as Victoria lay awake on the hard bed, of which the
girls were proud, she said to herself that she had not been half grateful enough to Si Maïeddine.
For ten years she had tried to find Saidee, and until the other day she had been little nearer
her heart's desire than when she was a child, hoping and longing in the school garret. Now
Maïeddine had made the way easy--almost too easy, for the road to the golden silence had become
so wonderful that she was tempted to forget her haste to reach the end.

XXVII

"There is my father's douar," said Si Maïeddine; and Victoria's eyes followed his pointing finger.

Into a stony and desolate waste had billowed one golden wave of sand, and on the fringe of
this wave, the girl saw a village of tents, black and brown, lying closely together, as a fleet
of dark fishing-boats lie in the water. There were many little tents, very flat and low, crouched
around one which even at a distance was conspicuous for its enormous size. It looked like a
squatting giant among an army of pigmies; and the level light of late afternoon gave extraordinary
value to its colours, which were brighter and newer than those of the lesser tents. As their
swaying carriage brought the travellers nearer, Victoria could see deep red and brown stripes,
separated by narrow bands of white. For background, there was a knot of trees; for they had
come south of El Aghouat to the strange region of dayas, where the stony desolation is broken
by little emerald hollows, running with water, like big round bowls stuck full of delicate
greenery and blossoms.

Suddenly, as Victoria looked, figures began running about, and almost before she had time to
speak, ten or a dozen men in white, mounted on horses, came speeding across the desert.

A stain of red showed in Maïeddine's cheeks, and his eyes lighted up. "They have been watching,
expecting us," he said. "Now my father is sending men to bid us welcome."

"Perhaps he is coming himself," said Victoria, for there was one figure riding in the centre
which seemed to her more splendidly dignified than the others, though all were magnificent
horsemen.

"No. It would not be right that the Agha himself should come to meet his son," Maïeddine explained.
"Besides he would be wearing a scarlet burnous, embroidered with gold. He does me enough honour
in sending out the pick of his goum, which is among the finest of the Sahara."

Victoria had picked up a great deal of desert lore by this time, and knew that the "pick of
the goum" would mean the best horses in the Agha's stables, the crack riders among his trained
men--fighting men, such as he would give to the Government, if Arab soldiers were needed.

The dozen cavaliers swept over the desert, making the sand fly up under the horses' hoofs in
a yellow spray; and nearing the carriage they spread themselves in a semi-circle, the man Victoria
had mistaken for the Agha riding forward to speak to Maïeddine.

"It is my brother-in-law, Abderrhaman ben Douadi," exclaimed Maïeddine, waving his hand.

M'Barka pulled her veil closer, and because she did so, Victoria hid her face also, rather
than shock the Arab woman's prejudices.

At a word from his master, the driver stopped his mules so quickly as to bring them on their
haunches, and Maïeddine sprang out. He and his brother-in-law, a stately dark man with a short
black beard under an eagle nose, exchanged courtesies which seemed elaborate to Victoria's
European ideas, and Si Abderrhaman did not glance at the half-lowered curtains behind which
the women sat.

The men talked for a few minutes; then Maïeddine got into the carriage again; and surrounded
by the riders, it was driven rapidly towards the tents, rocking wildly in the sand, because
now it had left the desert road and was making straight for the zmala.

The Arab men on their Arab horses shouted as they rode, as if giving a signal; and from the
tents, reddened now by the declining sun, came suddenly a strange crying in women's voices,
shrill yet sweet; a sound that was half a chant, half an eerie yodeling, note after note of
"you-you!--you-you!" Out from behind the zeribas, rough hedges of dead boughs and brambles
which protected each low tent, burst a tidal wave of children, some gay as little bright butterflies
in gorgeous dresses, others wrapped in brilliant rags. From under the tents women appeared,
unveiled, and beautiful in the sunset light, with their heavy looped braids and their dangling,
clanking silver jewellery. "You-you! you-you!" they cried, dark eyes gleaming, white teeth
flashing. It was to be a festival for the douar, this fortunate evening of the son and heir's
arrival, with a great lady of his house, and her friend, a Roumia girl. There was joy for everyone,
for the Agha's relatives, and for each man, woman and child in the zmala, mighty ones, or humble
members of the tribe, the Ouled-Serrin. There would be feasting, and after dark, to give pleasure
to the Roumia, the men would make the powder speak. It was like a wedding; and best of all,
an exciting rumour had gone round the douar, concerning the foreign girl and the Agha's son,
Si Maïeddine.

The romance in Victoria's nature was stirred by her reception; by the white-clad riders on
their slender horses, and the wild "you-yous" of the women and little girls. Maïeddine saw
her excitement and thrilled to it. This was his great hour. All that had gone before had been
leading up to this day, and to the days to come, when they would be in the fiery heart of the
desert together, lost to all her friends whom he hated with a jealous hatred. He helped M'Barka
to descend from the carriage: then, as she was received at the tent door by the Agha himself,
Maïeddine forgot his self-restraint, and swung the girl down, with tingling hands that clasped
her waist, as if at last she belonged to him.

Half fearful of what he had done, lest she should take alarm at his sudden change of manner,
he studied her face anxiously as he set her feet to the ground. But there was no cause for
uneasiness. So far from resenting the liberty he had taken after so many days of almost ostentatious
respect, Victoria was not even thinking of him, and her indifference would have been a blow,
if he had not been too greatly relieved to be hurt by it. She was looking at his father, the
Agha, who seemed to her the embodiment of some biblical patriarch. All through her long desert
journey, she had felt as if she had wandered into a dream of the Old Testament. There was nothing
there more modern than "Bible days," as she said to herself, simply, except the French quarters
in the few Arab towns through which they had passed.

Not yet, however, had she seen any figure as venerable as the Agha's, and she thought at once
of Abraham at his tent door. Just such a man as this Abraham must have been in his old age.
She could even imagine him ready to sacrifice a son, if he believed it to be the will of Allah;
and Maïeddine became of more importance in her eyes because of his relationship to this kingly
patriarch of the Sahara.

Having greeted his niece, Lella M'Barka, and passed her hospitably into the tent where women
were dimly visible, the Agha turned to Maïeddine and Victoria.

"The blessing of Allah be upon thee, O my son," he said, "and upon thee, little daughter. My
son's messenger brought word of thy coming, and thou art welcome as a silver shower of rain
after a long drought in the desert. Be thou as a child of my house, while thou art in my tent."

As she gave him her hand, her veil fell away from her face, and he saw its beauty with the
benevolent admiration of an old man whose blood has cooled. He was so tall that the erect,
thin figure reminded Victoria of a lonely desert palm. The young girl was no stern critic,
and was more inclined to see good than evil in every one she met; therefore to her the long
snowy beard, the large dreamy eyes under brows like Maïeddine's, and the slow, benevolent smile
of the Agha meant nobility of character. Her heart was warm for the splendid old man, and he
was not unaware of the impression he had made. As he bowed her into the tent where his wife
and sister and daughter were crowding round M'Barka, he said in a low voice to Maïeddine: "It
is well, my son. Being a man, and young, thou couldst not have withstood her. When the time
is ripe, she will become a daughter of Islam, because for love of thee, she will wish to fulfil
thine heart's desire."

"She does not yet know that she loves me," Maïeddine answered. "But when thou hast given me
the white stallion El Biod, and I ride beside the girl in her bassour through the long days
and the long distances, I shall teach her, in the way the Roumi men teach their women to love."

"But if thou shouldst not teach her?"

"My life is in it, and I shall teach her," said Maïeddine. "But if Chitan stands between, and
I fail--which I will not do--why, even so, it will come to the same thing in the end, because----"

"Thou wouldst say----"

"It is well to know one's own meaning, and to speak of--date stones. Yet with one's father,
one can open one's heart. He to whom I go has need of my services, and what he has for twelve
months vainly asked me to do, I will promise to do, for the girl's sake, if I cannot win her
without."

"Take care! Thou enterest a dangerous path," said the old man.

"Yet often I have thought of entering there, before I saw this girl's face."

"There might be a great reward in this life, and in the life beyond. Yet once the first step
is taken, it is irrevocable. In any case, commit me to nothing with him to whom thou goest.
He is eaten up with zeal. He is a devouring fire--and all is fuel for that fire."

"I will commit thee to nothing without thy full permission, O my father."

"And for thyself, think twice before thou killest the sheep. Remember our desert saying. 'Who
kills a sheep, kills a bee. Who kills a bee, kills a palm, and who kills a palm, kills seventy
prophets.'"

"I would give my sword to the prophets to aid them in killing those who are not prophets."

"Thou art faithful. Yet let the rain of reason fall on thy head and on thine heart, before
thou givest thy sword into the hand of him who waits thine answer."

"Thine advice is of the value of many dates, even of the deglet nour, the jewel date, which
only the rich can eat."

The old man laid his hand, still strong and firm, on his son's shoulder, and together they
went into the great tent, that part of it where the women were, for all were closely related
to them, excepting the Roumia, who had been received as a daughter of the house.

        *        *        *        *        *        *        *

When it was evening, the douar feasted, in honour of the guests who had come to the tente sultane.
The Agha had given orders that two sheep should be killed. One was for his own household; his
relatives, his servants, many of whom lived under the one vast roof of red, and white, and
brown. His daughter, and her husband who assisted him in many ways, and was his scribe, or
secretary, had a tent of their own close by, next in size to the Agha's; but they were bidden
to supper in the great tent that night, for the family reunion. And because there was a European
girl present, the women ate with the men, which was not usual.

The second sheep was for the humbler folk of the zmala, and they roasted it whole in an open
space, over a fire of small, dry wood, and of dead palm branches brought on donkey back twenty
miles across the desert, from the nearest oasis town, also under dominion of the Agha. He had
a house and garden there; but he liked best to be in his douar, with only his tent roof between
him and the sky. Also it made him popular with the tribe of which he was the head, to spend
most of his time with them in the desert. And for some reasons of which he never spoke, the
old man greatly valued this popularity, though he treasured also the respect of the French,
who assured his position and revenues.

The desert men had made a ring round the fire, far from the green daya, so that the blowing
sparks might not reach the trees. They sat in a circle, on the sand, with a row of women on
one side, who held the smallest children by their short skirts; and larger children, wild and
dark, as the red light of the flames played over their faces, fed the fire with pale palm branches.
There was no moon, but a fountain of sparks spouted towards the stars; and though it was night,
the sky was blue with the fierce blue of steel. Some of the Agha's black Soudanese servants
had made kous-kous of semolina with a little mutton and a great many red peppers. This they
gave to the crowd, in huge wooden bowls; and the richer people boiled coffee which they drank
themselves, and offered to those sitting nearest them.

When everybody had eaten, the powder play began round the fire, and at each explosion the women
shrilled out their "you-you, you-you!" But this was all for the entertainment of outsiders.
Inside the Agha's tent, the family took their pleasure more quietly.

Though a house of canvas, there were many divisions into rooms. The Agha's wife had hers, separated
completely from her sister's, and there was space for guests, besides the Agha's own quarters,
his reception room, his dining-room (invaded to-night by all his family) the kitchen, and sleeping
place for a number of servants.

There were many dishes besides the inevitable cheurba, or Arab soup, the kous-kous, the mechoui,
lamb roasted over the fire. Victoria was almost sickened by the succession of sweet things,
cakes and sugared preserves, made by the hands of the Agha's wife, Alonda, who in the Roumia's
eyes was as like Sarah as the Agha was like Abraham. Yet everything was delicious; and after
the meal, when the coffee came, lagmi the desert wine distilled from the heart of a palm tree,
was pressed upon Victoria. All drank a little, for, said Lella Alonda, though strong drink
was forbidden by the Prophet, the palms were dear to him, and besides, in the throats of good
men and women, wine was turned to milk, as Sidi Aissa of the Christians turned water to wine
at the marriage feast.

When they had finished at last, a Soudanese woman poured rose-water over their hands, from
a copper jug, and wiped them with a large damask napkin, embroidered by Aichouch, the pretty,
somewhat coquettish married daughter of the house, Maïeddine's only sister. The rose-water
had been distilled by Lella Fatma, the widowed sister of Alonda, who shared the hospitality
of the Agha's roof, in village or douar. Every one questioned Victoria, and made much of her,
even the Agha; but, though they asked her opinions of Africa, and talked of her journey across
the sea, they did not speak of her past life or of her future. Not a word was said concerning
her mission, or Ben Halim's wife, the sister for whom she searched.

While they were still at supper, the black servants who had waited upon them went quietly away,
but slightly raised the heavy red drapery which formed the partition between that room and
another. They looped up the thick curtain only a little way, but there was a light on the other
side, and Victoria, curious as to what would happen next, spied the servants' black legs moving
about, watched a rough wooden bench placed on the blue and crimson rugs of Djebel Amour, and
presently saw other black legs under a white burnous coil themselves upon the low seat.

Then began strange music, the first sound of which made Victoria's heart leap. It was the first
time she had heard the music of Africa, except a distant beating of tobols coming from a black
tent across desert spaces, while she had lain at night in the house of Maïeddine's friends;
or the faint, pure note of a henna-dyed flute in the hand of some boy keeper of goats--a note
pure as the monotonous purling of water, heard in the dark.

But this music was so close to her, that it was like the throbbing of her own heart. And it
was no sweet, pure trickle of silver, but the cry of passion, passion as old and as burning
as the desert sands outside the lighted tent. As she listened, struck into pulsing silence,
she could see the colour of the music; a deep crimson, which flamed into scarlet as the tom-tom
beat, or deepened to violent purple, wicked as belladonna flowers. The wailing of the raïta
mingled with the heavy throbbing of the tom-tom, and filled the girl's heart with a vague foreboding,
a yearning for something she had not known, and did not understand. Yet it seemed that she
must have both known and understood long ago, before memory recorded anything--perhaps in some
forgotten incarnation. For the music and what it said, monotonously yet fiercely, was old as
the beginnings of the world, old and changeless as the patterns of the stars embroidered on
the astrological scroll of the sky. The hoarse derbouka, and the languorous ghesbah joined
in with the savage tobol and the strident raïta; and under all was the tired heart-beat of
the bendir, dull yet resonant, and curiously exciting to the nerves.

Victoria's head swam. She wondered if it were wholly the effect of the African music, or if
the lagmi she had sipped was mounting to her brain. She grew painfully conscious of every physical
sense, and it was hard to sit and listen. She longed to spring up and dance in time to the
droning, and throbbing, and crying of the primitive instruments which the Negroes played behind
the red curtain. She felt that she must dance, a new, strange dance the idea of which was growing
in her mind, and becoming an obsession. She could see it as if she were looking at a picture;
yet it was only her nerves and her blood that bade her dance. Her reason told her to sit still.
Striving to control herself she shut her eyes, and would have shut her ears too, if she could.
But the music was loud in them. It made her see desert rivers rising after floods, and water
pounding against the walls of underground caverns. It made her hear the wild, fierce love-call
of a desert bird to its mate.

She could bear it no longer. She sprang up, her eyes shining, her cheeks red. "May I dance
for you to that music, Lella Alonda?" she said to the Agha's wife. "I think I could. I long
to try."

Lella Alonda, who was old, and accustomed only to the dancing of the Almehs, which she thought
shameful, was scandalized at the thought that the young girl would willingly dance before men.
She was dumb, not knowing what answer to give, that need not offend a guest, but which might
save the Roumia from indiscretion.

The Agha, however, was enchanted. He was a man of the world still, though he was aged now,
and he had been to Paris, as well as many times to Algiers. He knew that European ladies danced
with men of their acquaintance, and he was curious to see what this beautiful child wished
to do. He glanced at Maïeddine, and spoke to his wife: "Tell the little White Rose to dance;
that it will give us pleasure."

"Dance then, in thine own way, O daughter," Lella Alonda was forced to say; for it did not
even occur to her that she might disobey her husband.

Victoria smiled at them all; at M'Barka and Aichouch, and Aichouch's dignified husband, Si
Abderrhaman: at Alonda and the Agha, and at Maïeddine, as, when a child, she would have smiled
at her sister, when beginning a dance made up from one of Saidee's stories.

She had told Stephen of an Eastern dance she knew, but this was something different, more thrilling
and wonderful, which the wild music put into her heart. At first, she hardly knew what was
the meaning she felt impelled to express by gesture and pose. The spirit of the desert sang
to her, a song of love, a song old as the love-story of Eve; and though the secret of that
song was partly hidden from her as yet, she must try to find it out for herself, and picture
it to others, by dancing.

Always before, when she danced, Victoria had called up the face of her sister, to keep before
her eyes as an inspiration. But now, as she bent and swayed to catch the spirit's whispers,
as wheat sways to the whisper of the wind, it was a man's face she saw. Stephen Knight seemed
to stand in the tent, looking at her with a curiously wistful, longing look, over the heads
of the Arab audience, who sat on their low divans and piled carpets.

She thrilled to the look, and the desert spirit made her screen her face from it, with a sequined
gauze scarf which she wore. For a few measures she danced behind the glittering veil, then
with a sudden impulse which the music gave, she tossed it back, holding out her arms, and smiling
up to Stephen's eyes, above the brown faces, with a sweet smile very mysterious to the watchers.
Consciously she called to Stephen then, as she had promised she would call, if she should ever
need him, for somehow she did need and want him;--not for his help in finding Saidee: she was
satisfied with all that Maïeddine was doing--but for herself. The secret of the music which
she had been trying to find out, was in his eyes, and learning it slowly, made her more beautiful,
more womanly, than she had ever been before. As she danced on, the two long plaits of her red
hair loosened and shook out into curls which played round her white figure like flames. Her
hands fluttered on the air as they rose and fell like the little white wings of a dove; and
she was dazzling as a brandished torch, in the ill-lit tent with its dark hangings.

M'Barka had given her a necklace of black beads which the negresses had made of benzoin and
rose leaves and spices, held in shape with pungent rezin. Worn on the warm flesh, the beads
gave out a heady perfume, which was like the breath of the desert. It made the girl giddy,
and it grew stronger and sweeter as she danced, seeming to mingle with the crying of the raïta
and the sobbing of the ghesbah, so that she confused fragrance with music, music with fragrance.

Maïeddine stared at her, like a man who dreams with his eyes open. If he had been alone, he
could have watched her dance on for hours, and wished that she would never stop; but there
were other men in the tent, and he had a maddening desire to snatch the girl in his arms, smothering
her in his burnous, and rushing away with her into the desert.

Her dancing astonished him. He did not know what to make of it, for she had told him nothing
about herself, except what concerned her errand in Africa. Though he had been in Paris when
she was there, he had been deeply absorbed in business vital to his career, and had not heard
of Victoria Ray the dancer, or seen her name on the hoardings.

Like his father, he knew that European women who danced were not as the African dancers, the
Ouled Naïls and the girls of Djebel Amour. But an Arab may have learned to know many things
with his mind which he cannot feel with his heart; and with his heart Maïeddine felt a wish
to blind Abderrhaman, because his eyes had seen the intoxicating beauty of Victoria as she
danced. He was ferociously angry, but not with the girl. Perhaps with himself, because he was
powerless to hide her from others, and to order her life as he chose. Yet there was a kind
of delicious pain in knowing himself at her mercy, as no Arab man could be at the mercy of
an Arab woman.

The sight of Victoria dancing, had shot new colours into his existence. He understood her less,
and valued her more than before, a thousand times more, achingly, torturingly more. Since their
first meeting on the boat, he had admired the American girl immensely. Her whiteness, the golden-red
of her hair, the blueness of her eyes had meant perfection for him. He had wanted her because
she was the most beautiful creature he had seen, because she was a Christian and difficult
to win; also because the contrast between her childishness and brave independence was piquant.
Apart from that contrast, he had not thought much about her nature. He had looked upon her
simply as a beautiful girl, who could not be bought, but must be won. Now she had become a
bewildering houri. Nothing which life could give him would make up for the loss of her. There
was nothing he would not do to have her, or at least to put her beyond the reach of others.

If necessary, he would even break his promise to the Agha.

While she danced inside the great tent, outside in the open space round the fire, the dwellers
in the little tents sat with their knees in their arms watching the dancing of two young Negroes
from the Soudan. The blacks had torn their turbans from their shaven heads, and thrown aside
their burnouses. Naked to their waists, with short, loose trousers, and sashes which other
men seized, to swing the wearers round and round, their sweating skin had the gloss of ebony.
It was a whirlwind of a dance, and an old wizard with a tom-tom, and a dark giant with metal
castanets made music for the dancers, taking eccentric steps themselves as they played. The
Soudanese fell into an ecstasy of giddiness, running about on their hands and feet like huge
black tarantulas, or turning themselves into human wheels, to roll through the bed of the dying
fire and out on the other side, sending up showers of sparks. All the while, they uttered a
barking chant, in time to the wicked music, which seemed to shriek for war and bloodshed; and
now and then they would dash after some toddling boy, catch him by the scalp-lock on his shaved
head (left for the grasp of Azraïl the death-angel) and force him to join the dance.

Mean-faced Kabyle dogs, guarding deserted tents, howled their hatred of the music, while far
away, across desert spaces, jackals cried to one another. And the scintillating network of
stars was dimmed by a thin veil of sand which the wind lifted and let fall, as Victoria lifted
and let fall the spangled scarf that made her beauty more mysterious, more desirable, in the
eyes of Maïeddine.

XXVIII

"In the name of the All-Merciful and Pitiful! We seek refuge with the Lord of the Day, against
the sinfulness of beings created by Him; against all evil, and against the night, lest they
overcome us suddenly."

It was the Prayer of the Dawn, El Fejûr; and Victoria heard it cried in the voices of the old
men of the zmala, early in the morning, as she dressed to continue her journey.

Every one was astir in the tente sultane, behind the different curtain partitions, and outside
were the noises of the douar, waking to a new day. The girl could not wait for the coffee that
Fafann would bring her, for she was eager to see the caravan that Si Maïeddine was assembling.
As soon as she was ready she stole out into the dim dawn, more mystic in the desert than moon-rise
or moon-setting. The air was crisp and tingling, and smelled of wild thyme, the herb that nomad
women love, and wear crushed in their bosoms, or thrust up their nostrils. The camels had not
come yet, for the men of the douar had not finished their prayer. In the wide open space where
they had watched the dance last night, now they were praying, sons of Ishmael, a crowd of prostrate
white figures, their faces against the sand.

Victoria stood waiting by the big tent, but she had not much need for patience. Soon the desert
prayer was over, and the zmala was buzzing with excitement, as it had buzzed when the travellers
arrived.

The Soudanese Negroes who had danced the wild dance appeared leading two white meharis, running
camels, aristocrats of the camel world. On the back of each rose a cage-like bassour, draped
with haoulis, striped rose-colour and purple. The desert beasts moved delicately, on legs longer
and more slender than those of pack-camels, their necks swaying like the necks of swans who
swim with the tide. Victoria thought them like magnificent, four-legged cousins of ostriches,
and the superciliousness of their expressions amused her; the look they had of elderly ladies,
dissatisfied with every one but themselves, and conscious of being supremely "well-connected."
"A camel cannot see its own hump, but it can see those of others," she had heard M'Barka say.

As Victoria stood alone in the dawn, laughing at the ghostly meharis, and looking with interest
at the heavily laden pack-camel and the mule piled up with tents and mattresses, Maïeddine
came riding round from behind the great tent, all in white, on a white stallion. Seeing the
girl, he tested her courage, and made a bid for her admiration by reining El Biod in suddenly,
making him stand erect on his hind feet, pawing the air and dancing. But Roumia as she was,
and unaccustomed to such manoeuvres, she neither ran back nor screamed. She was not ashamed
to show her admiration of man and horse, and Maïeddine did not know that her thoughts were
more of El Biod the white, "drinker of air," the saddle of crimson velvet and tafilet leather
embroidered in gold, and the bridle from Figuig, encrusted with silver, than of the rider.

"This is the horse of whom I told thee," Maïeddine said, letting El Biod come down again on
all four feet. "He was blessed as a foal by having the magical words 'Bissem Allah' whispered
over him as he drew the first draught of his mother's milk. But thou wilt endow him with new
gifts if thou touchest his forehead with thy hand. Wilt thou do that, for his sake, and for mine?"

Victoria patted the flesh-coloured star on the stallion's white face, not knowing that, if
a girl's fingers lie between the eyes of an Arab's horse, it is as much as to say that she
is ready to ride with him to the world's end. But Maïeddine knew, and the thought warmed his
blood. He was superstitious, like all Arabs, and he had wanted a sign of success. Now he had
it. He longed to kiss the little fingers as they rested on El Biod's forehead, but he said
to himself, "Patience; it will not be long before I kiss her lips."

"El Biod is my citadel," he smiled to her. "Thou knowest we have the same word for horse and
citadel in Arabic? And that is because a brave stallion is a warrior's citadel, built on the
wind, a rampart between him and the enemy. And we think the angels gave a horse the same heart
as a man, that he might be our friend as well as servant, and carry us on his back to Paradise.
Whether that is true or not, to-day El Biod and I are already on the threshold of Paradise,
because we are thy guides, thy guardians through the desert which we love."

As he made this speech, Maïeddine watched the girl's face anxiously, to see whether she would
resent the implication, but she only smiled in her frank way, knowing the Arab language to
be largely the language of compliment; and he was encouraged. Perhaps he had been over-cautious
with her, he thought; for, after all, he had no reason to believe that she cared for any man,
and as he had a record of great successes with women, why be so timid with an unsophisticated
girl? Each day, he told himself, he would take another and longer step forward; but for the
moment he must be content. He began to talk about the meharis and the Negroes who would go
with them and the beasts of burden.

When it was time for Victoria and M'Barka to be helped into their bassourahs, Maïeddine would
not let the Soudanese touch the meharis. It was he who made the animals kneel, pulling gently
on the bridle attached to a ring in the left nostril of each; and both subsided gracefully
in haughty silence instead of uttering the hideous gobbling which common camels make when they
get down and get up, or when they are loaded or unloaded. These beasts, Guelbi and Mansour,
had been bought from Moors, across the border where Oran and Morocco run together, and had
been trained since babyhood by smugglers for smuggling purposes. "If a man would have a silent
camel," said Maïeddine, "he must get him from smugglers. For the best of reasons their animals
are taught never to make a noise."

M'Barka was to have Fafann in the same bassour, but Victoria would have her rose and purple
cage to herself. Maïeddine told her how, as the camel rose, she must first bow forward, then
bend back; and, obeying carefully, she laughed like a child as the tall mehari straightened
the knees of his forelegs, bearing his weight upon them as if on his feet, then got to his
hind feet, while his "front knees," as she called them, were still on the ground, and last
of all swung himself on to all four of his heart-shaped feet. Oh, how high in the air she felt
when Guelbi was up, ready to start! She had had no idea that he was such a tall, moving tower,
under the bassour.

"What a sky-scraping camel!" she exclaimed. And then had to explain to Maïeddine what she meant;
for though he knew Paris, for him America might as well have been on another planet.

He rode beside Victoria's mehari, when good-byes had been said, blessings exchanged, and the
little caravan had started. Looking out between the haoulis which protected her from sun and
wind, the handsome Arab on his Arab horse seemed far below her, as Romeo must have seemed to
Juliet on her balcony; and to him the fair face, framed with dazzling hair was like a guiding star.

"Thou canst rest in thy bassour?" he asked. "The motion of thy beast gives thee no discomfort?"

"No. Truly it is a cradle," she answered. "I had read that to ride on a camel was misery, but
this is like being rocked on the bough of a tree when the wind blows."

"To sit in a bassour is very different from riding on a saddle, or even on a mattress, as the
poor Bedouin women sometimes ride, or the dancers journeying from one place to another. I would
not let thee travel with me unless I had been able to offer thee all the luxuries which a sultana
might command. With nothing less would I have been content, because to me thou art a queen."

"At least thou hast given me a beautiful moving throne," laughed Victoria; "and because thou
art taking me on it to my sister, I'm happy to-day as a queen."

"Then, if thou art happy, I also am happy," he said. "And when an Arab is happy, his lips would
sing the song that is in his heart. Wilt thou be angry or pleased if I sing thee a love-song
of the desert?"

"I cannot be angry, because the song will not really be for me," Victoria answered with the
simplicity which had often disarmed and disconcerted Maïeddine. "And I shall be pleased, because
in the desert it is good to hear desert songs."

This was not exactly the answer which he had wanted, but he made the best of it, telling himself
that he had not much longer to wait.

"Leaders of camels sing," he said, "to make the beasts' burdens weigh less heavily. But thy
mehari has no burden. Thou in thy bassour art lighter on his back than a feather on the wing
of a dove. My song is for my own heart, and for thine heart, if thou wilt have it, not for
Guelbi, though the meaning of Guelbi is 'heart of mine.'"

Then Maïeddine sang as he rode, his bridle lying loose, an old Arab song, wild and very sad,
as all Arab music sounds, even when it is the cry of joy:

     "Truly, though I were to die, it would be naught,
     If I were near my love, for whom my bosom aches,
     For whom my heart is beating.

     "Yes, I am to die, but death is nothing
     O ye who pass and see me dying,
     For I have kissed the eyes, the mouth that I desired."

"But that is a sad song," said Victoria, when Maïeddine ceased his tragic chant, after many verses.

"Thou wouldst not say so, if thou hadst ever loved. Nothing is sad to a lover, except to lose
his love, or not to have his love returned."

"But an Arab girl has no chance to love," Victoria argued. "Her father gives her to a man when
she is a child, and they have never even spoken to each other until after the wedding."

"We of the younger generation do not like these child marriages," Maïeddine apologized, eagerly.
"And, in any case, an Arab man, unless he be useless as a mule without an eye, knows how to
make a girl love him in spite of herself. We are not like the men of Europe, bound down by
a thousand conventions. Besides, we sometimes fall in love with women not of our own race.
These we teach to love us before marriage."

Victoria laughed again, for she felt light-hearted in the beautiful morning. "Do Arab men always
succeed as teachers?"

"What is written is written," he answered slowly. "Yet it is written that a strong man carves
his own fate. And for thyself, wouldst thou know what awaits thee in the future?"

"I trust in God and my star."

"Thou wouldst not, then, that the desert speak to thee with its tongue of sand out of the wisdom
of all ages?"

"What dost thou mean?"

"I mean that my cousin, Lella M'Barka, can divine the future from the sand of the Sahara, which
gave her life, and life to her ancestors for a thousand years before her. It is a gift. Wilt
thou that she exercise it for thee to-night, when we camp?"

"There is hardly any real sand in this part of the desert," said Victoria, seeking some excuse
not to hear M'Barka's prophecies, yet not to hurt M'Barka's feelings, or Maïeddine's. "It is
all far away, where we see the hills which look golden as ripe grain. And we cannot reach those
hills by evening."

"My cousin always carries the sand for her divining. Every night she reads in the sand what
will happen to her on the morrow, just as the women of Europe tell their fate by the cards.
It is sand from the dunes round Touggourt; and mingled with it is a little from Mecca, which
was brought to her by a holy man, a marabout. It would give her pleasure to read the sand for
thee."

"Then I will ask her to do it," Victoria promised.

As the day grew, its first brightness faded. A wind blew up from the south, and slowly darkened
the sky with a strange lilac haze, which seemed tangible as thin silk gauze. Behind it the
sun glimmered like a great silver plate, and the desert turned pale, as in moonlight. Although
the ground was hard under the camels' feet, the wind carried with it from far-away spaces a
fine powder of sand which at last forced Victoria to let down the haoulis, and Maïeddine and
the two Negroes to cover their faces with the veils of their turbans, up to the eyes.

"It will rain this afternoon," M'Barka prophesied from between her curtains.

"No," Maïeddine contradicted her. "There has been rain this month, and thou knowest better
than I do that beyond El Aghouat it rains but once in five years. Else, why do the men of the
M'Zab country break their hearts to dig deep wells? There will be no rain. It is but a sand-storm
we have to fear."

"Yet I feel in the roots of my hair and behind my eyes that the rain is coming."

Maïeddine shrugged his shoulders, for an Arab does not twice contradict a woman, unless she
be his wife. But the lilac haze became a pall of crape, and the noon meal was hurried. Maïeddine
saved some of the surprises he had brought for a more favourable time. Hardly had they started
on again, when rain began to fall, spreading over the desert in a quivering silver net whose
threads broke and were constantly mended again. Then the rough road (to which the little caravan
did not keep) and all the many diverging tracks became wide silver ribbons, lacing the plain
broken with green dayas. A few minutes more--incredibly few, it seemed to Victoria--and the
dayas were deep lakes, where the water swirled and bubbled round the trunks of young pistachio
trees. A torrent poured from the mourning sky, and there was a wild sound of marching water,
which Victoria could hear, under the haoulis which sheltered her. No water came through them,
for the arching form of the bassour was like the roof of a tent, and the rain poured down on
either side. She peeped out, enjoying her own comfort, while pitying Maïeddine and the Negroes;
but all three had covered their thin burnouses with immensely thick, white, hooded cloaks,
woven of sheep's wool, and they had no air of depression. By and by they came to an oued, which
should have been a dry, stony bed without a trickle of water; but half an hour's downpour had
created a river, as if by black magic; and Victoria could guess the force at which it was rushing,
by the stout resistance she felt Guelbi had to make, as he waded through.

"A little more, and we could not have crossed," said Maïeddine, when they had mounted up safely
on the other side of the oued.

"Art thou not very wet and miserable?" the girl asked sympathetically.

"I--miserable?" he echoed. "I--who am privileged to feast upon the deglet nour, in my desert?"

Victoria did not understand his metaphor, for the deglet nour is the finest of all dates, translucent
as amber, sweet as honey, and so dear that only rich men or great marabouts ever taste it.
"The deglet nour?" she repeated, puzzled.

"Dost thou not know the saying that the smile of a beautiful maiden is the deglet nour of Paradise,
and nourishes a man's soul, so that he can bear any discomfort without being conscious that
he suffers?"

"I did not know that Arab men set women so high," said Victoria, surprised; for now the rain
had stopped, suddenly as it began, and she could look out again from between the curtains.
Soon they would dry in the hot sun.

"Thou hast much to learn then, about Arab men," Maïeddine answered, "and fortunate is thy teacher.
It is little to say that we would sacrifice our lives for the women we love, because for us
life is not that great treasure it is to the Roumis, who cling to it desperately. We would
do far more than give our lives for the beloved woman, we Arabs. We would give our heads, which
is the greatest sacrifice a man of Islam could make."

"But is not that the same thing as giving life?"

"It is a thousandfold more. It is giving up the joy of eternity. For we are taught to believe
that if a man's head is severed from his body, it alone goes to Paradise. His soul is maimed.
It is but a bodiless head, and all celestial joys are for ever denied to it."

"How horrible!" the girl exclaimed. "Dost thou really believe such a thing?"

He feared that he had made a mistake, and that she would look upon him as an alien, a pagan,
with whom she could have no sympathy. "If I am more modern in my ideas than my forefathers,"
he said tactfully, "I must not confess it to a Roumia, must I, oh Rose of the West?--for that
would be disloyal to Islam. Yet if I did believe, still would I give my head for the love of
the one woman, the star of my destiny, she whose sweet look deserves that the word 'aïn' should
stand for bright fountain, and for the ineffable light in a virgin's eyes."

"I did not know until to-day, Si Maïeddine, that thou wert a poet," Victoria told him.

"All true Arabs are poets. Our language--the literary, not the common Arabic--is the language
of poets, as thou must have read in thy books. But I have now such inspiration as perhaps no
man ever had; and thou wilt learn other things about me, while we journey together in the desert."

As he said this he looked at her with a look which even her simplicity could not have mistaken
if she had thought of it; but instantly the vision of Saidee came between her eyes and his.
The current of her ideas was abruptly changed. "How many days now," she asked suddenly, "will
the journey last?"

His face fell. "Art thou tired already of this new way of travelling, that thou askest me a
question thou hast not once asked since we started?"

"Oh no, no," she reassured him. "I love it. I am not tired at all. But--I did not question
thee at first because thou didst not desire me to know thy plans, while I was still within
touch of Europeans. Thou didst not put this reason in such words, for thou wouldst not have
let me feel I had not thy full trust. But it was natural thou shouldst not give it, when thou
hadst so little acquaintance with me, and I did not complain. Now it is different. Even if
I wished, I could neither speak nor write to any one I ever knew. Therefore I question thee."

"Art thou impatient for the end?" he wanted to know, jealously.

"Not impatient. I am happy. Yet I should like to count the days, and say each night, 'So many
more times must the sun rise and set before I see my sister.'"

"Many suns must rise and set," Maïeddine confessed doggedly.

"But--when first thou planned the journey, thou saidst; 'In a fortnight thou canst send thy
friends news, I hope.'"

"If I had told thee then, that it must be longer, wouldst thou have come with me? I think not.
For thou sayest I did not wholly trust thee. How much less didst thou trust me?"

"Completely. Or I would not have put myself in thy charge."

"Perhaps thou art convinced of that now, when thou knowest me and Lella M'Barka, and thou hast
slept in the tent of my father, and in the houses of my friends. But I saw in thine eyes at
that time a doubt thou didst not wish to let thyself feel, because through me alone was there
a way to reach thy sister. I wished to bring thee to her, for thy sake, and for her sake, though
I have never looked upon her face and never shall----"

"Why dost thou say 'never shall'?" the girl broke in upon him suddenly.

The blood mounted to his face. He had made a second mistake, and she was very quick to catch
him up.

"It was but a figure of speech," he corrected himself.

"Thou dost not mean that she's shut up, and no man allowed to see her?"

"I know nothing. Thou wilt find out all for thyself. But thou wert anxious to go to her, at
no matter what cost, and I feared to dishearten thee, to break thy courage, while I was still
a stranger, and could not justify myself in thine eyes. Now, wilt thou forgive me an evasion,
which was to save thee anxiety, if I say frankly that, travel as we may, we cannot reach our
journey's end for many days yet?"

"I must forgive thee," said Victoria, with a sigh. "Yet I do not like evasions. They are unworthy."

"I am sorry," Maïeddine returned, so humbly that he disarmed her. "It would be terrible to
offend thee."

"There can be no question of offence," she consoled him. "I am very, very grateful for all
thou hast done for me. I often lie awake in the night, wondering how I can repay thee everything."

"When we come to the end of the journey, I will tell thee of a thing thou canst do, for my
happiness," Maïeddine said in a low voice, as if half to himself.

"Wilt thou tell me now to what place we are going? I should like to know, and I should like
to hear thee describe it."

He did not speak for a moment. Then he said slowly; "It is a grief to deny thee anything, oh
Rose, but the secret is not mine to tell, even to thee."

"The secret!" she echoed. "Thou hast never called it a secret."

"If I did not use that word, did I not give thee to understand the same thing?"

"Thou meanest, the secret about Cassim, my sister's husband?"

"Cassim ben Halim has ceased to live."

Victoria gave a little cry. "Dead! But thou hast made me believe, in spite of the rumours,
that he lived."

"I cannot explain to thee," Maïeddine answered gloomily, as if hating to refuse her anything.
"In the end, thou wilt know all, and why I had to be silent."

"But my sister?" the girl pleaded. "There is no mystery about her? Thou hast concealed nothing
which concerns Saidee?"

"Thou hast my word that I will take thee to the place where she is. Thou gavest me thy trust.
Give it me again."

"I have not taken it away. It is thine," said Victoria.

XXIX

That night they spent in a caravanserai, because, after the brief deluge of rain, the ground
was too damp for camping, when an invalid was of the party. When they reached the place after
sunset, the low square of the building was a block of marble set in the dull gold of the desert,
carved in dazzling white against a deep-blue evening sky. Like Ben Halim's house, it was roughly
fortified, with many loopholes in the walls, for it had been built to serve the uses of less
peaceful days than these. Within the strong gates, on one side were rooms for guests, each
with its own door and window opening into the huge court. On another side of the square were
the kitchens and dining-room, as well as living-place for the Arab landlord and his hidden
family; and opposite was a roofed, open-fronted shelter for camels and other animals, the ground
yellow with sand and spilt fodder. Water overflowed from a small well, making a pool in the
courtyard, in which ducks and geese waddled, quacking, turkey-cocks fought in quiet corners,
barked at impotently by Kabyle puppies. Tall, lean hounds or sloughis, kept to chase the desert
gazelles, wandered near the kitchens, in the hope of bones, and camels gobbled dismally as
their tired drivers forced them to their knees, or thrust handfuls of date stones down their
throats. There were sheep, too, and goats; and even a cow, the "perpetual mother" loved and
valued by Arabs.

M'Barka refused to "read the sand" that night, when Maïeddine suggested it. The sand would
yield up its secrets only under the stars, she said, and wished to wait until they should be
in the tents.

All night, outside Victoria's open but shuttered window, there was a stealthy stirring of animals
in the dark, a gliding of ghostly ducks, a breathing of sheep and camels. And sometimes the
wild braying of a donkey or the yelp of a dog tore the silence to pieces.

The next day was hot; so that at noon, when they stopped to eat, the round blot of black shadow
under one small tree was precious as a black pearl. And there were flies. Victoria could not
understand how they lived in the desert, miles from any house, miles from the tents of nomads;
where there was no vegetation, except an occasional scrubby tree, or a few of the desert gourds
which the Arabs use to cure the bite of scorpions. But she had not seen the cages of bones,
sometimes bleached like old ivory, sometimes of a dreadful red, which told of wayside tragedies.
Always when they had come in sight of a skeleton, Maïeddine had found some excuse to make the
girl look in another direction; for he wanted her to love the desert, not to feel horror of
its relentlessness.

Now for the first time he had full credit for his cleverness as an organizer. Never before
had they been so remote from civilization. When travelling in the carriage, stopping each night
at the house of some well-to-do caïd or adel, it had been comparatively easy to provide supplies;
but to-day, when jellied chicken and cream-cheese, almond cakes and oranges appeared at luncheon,
and some popular French mineral water (almost cool because the bottles had been wrapped in
wet blanket) fizzed in the glasses, Victoria said that Si Maïeddine must have a tame djinn
for a slave.

"Wait till evening," he told her. "Then perhaps thou mayest see something to please thee."
But he was delighted with her compliments, and made her drink water from the glass out of which
he had drunk, that she might be sure of his good faith in all he had sworn to her yesterday.
"They who drink water from the same cup have made an eternal pact together," he said. "I should
not dare to be untrue, even if I would. And thou--I think that thou wilt be true to me."

"Why, certainly I will," answered Victoria, with the pretty American accent which Stephen Knight
had admired and smiled at the night he heard it first. "Thou art one of my very best friends."

Maïeddine looked down into the glass and smiled, as if he were a crystal-gazer, and could see
something under the bright surface, that no one else could see.

Night folded down over the desert, hot and velvety, like the wings of a mother-bird covering
her children; but before darkness fell, the tents glimmered under the stars. There were two
only, a large one for the women, and one very small for Maïeddine. The Negroes would roll themselves
in their burnouses, and lie beside the animals. But sleeping-time had not come yet; and it
was the Soudanese who prepared the evening meal.

One of them was a good cook, and for that reason Maïeddine had begged him from the Agha. He
made desert bread, by mixing farina with salted water, and baking it on a flat tin supported
by stones over a fire of dry twigs. When the thin loaf was crisply brown on top, the man took
it off the fire, and covered it up, on the tin, because it was to be eaten hot.

While Victoria waited for all to be got ready, she strolled a little away from the tents and
the group of resting animals, having promised Maïeddine to avoid the tufts of alfa grass, for
fear of vipers which sometimes lurked among them. He would have liked to go with her, but the
unfailing tact of the Arab told him that she wished to be alone with her thoughts, and he could
only hope that they might be of him.

Here, it was no longer beautiful desert. They had passed the charming region of dayas, and
were entering the grim world through which, long ago, the ever harried M'Zabites had fled to
find a refuge beyond the reach of greedy pursuers. Nevertheless the enchantment of the Sahara,
in all its phases, had taken hold of Victoria. She did not now feel that the desert was a place
where a tired soul might find oblivion, though once she had imagined that it would be a land
of forgetfulness. Arabs say, in talking idly to Europeans, that men forget their past in the
desert, but she doubted if they really forgot, in these vast spaces where there was so much
time to think. She herself began to feel that the illimitable skies, where flamed sunsets and
sunrises whose miracles no eye saw, might teach her mysteries she had snatched at and lost,
in dreams. The immensity of the desert sent her soul straining towards the immensity of the
Beyond; and almost, in flashes elusive as the light on a bird's wing, she understood what eternity
might mean. She felt that the last days of her childhood had been left behind, on the threshold
of these mysterious spaces, this vastness into which she had plunged, as into an ocean. Yet
she did not regret the loss, if it were a loss. Never, she thought, whatever might happen,
would she wish not to have known this experience, not to have entered upon this great adventure,
whose end Maïeddine still hid behind a veil of secrecy.

It was true, as she had told him, that she was not impatient, though she would have liked to
count the days like the beads of a rosary. She looked forward to each one, as to the discovery
of a beautiful thing new to the world and to her; for though the spaces surrounding her were
wide beyond thinking, they were not empty. As ships, great and small, sail the sea, so sailed
the caravans of the nomad tribes in the desert which surges on unchecked to Egypt: nomads who
come and go, north and south, east and west, under the burning sun and the throbbing stars,
as Allah has written their comings and goings in His book: men in white, journeying with their
women, their children, and their trains of beasts, singing as they pass, and at night under
the black tents resting to the music of the tom-tom and raïta.

Victoria's gaze waded through the shadows that flow over the desert at evening, deep and blue
and transparent as water. She searched the distances for the lives that must be going on somewhere,
perhaps not far away, though she would never meet them. They, and she, were floating spars
in a great ocean; and it made the ocean more wonderful to know that the spars were there, each
drifting according to its fate.

The girl drew into her lungs the strong air of the desert, born of the winds which bring life
or death to its children.

The scent of the wild thyme, which she could never again disentangle from thoughts of the Sahara,
was very sweet, even insistent. She knew that it was loved by nomad women; and she let pictures
rise before her mind of gorgeous dark girls on camels, in plumed red bassourahs, going from
one desert city to another, to dance--cities teeming with life, which she would never see among
these spaces that seemed empty as the world before creation. She imagined the ghosts of these
desert beauties crowding round her in the dusk, bringing their fragrance with them, the wild
thyme they had loved in life, crushed in their bosoms; pathetic ghosts, who had not learned
to rise beyond what they had once desired, therefore compelled to haunt the desert, the only
world which they had known. In the wind that came sighing to her ears from the dark ravines
of the terrible chebka, she seemed to hear battle-songs and groans of desert men who had fought
and died ages ago, whose bones had crumbled under her feet, perhaps, and whose descendants
had not changed one whit in religion, custom, or thought, or even in dress.

Victoria was glad that Maïeddine had let her have these desert thoughts alone, for they made
her feel at home in the strange world her fancy peopled; but the touch of the thyme-scented
ghosts was cold. It was good to turn back at last towards the tents, and see how the camp-fire
crimsoned the star-dusk.

"Thou wert happy alone?" Maïeddine questioned her jealously.

"I was not alone."

He understood. "I know. The desert voices spoke to thee, of the desert mystery which they alone
can tell; voices we can hear only by listening closely."

"That was the thought in my mind. How odd thou shouldst put it into words."

"Dost thou think it odd? But I am a man of the desert. I held back, for thee to go alone and
hear the voices, knowing they would teach thee to understand me and my people. I knew, too,
that the spirits would be kind, and say nothing to frighten thee. Besides, thou didst not go
to them quite alone, for thine own white angel walked on thy right hand, as always."

"Thou makest poetical speeches, Si Maïeddine."

"It is no poetry to speak of thy white angel. We believe that each one of us has a white angel
at his right hand, recording his good actions. But ordinary mortals have also their black angels,
keeping to the left, writing down wicked thoughts and deeds. Hast thou not seen men spitting
to the left, to show despite of their black angels? But because thy soul is never soiled by
sinful thoughts, there was no need for a black angel, and whilst thou wert still a child, Allah
discharged him of his mission."

"And thou, Si Maïeddine, dost thou think, truly, that a black angel walks ever at thy left side?"

"I fear so." Maïeddine glanced to the left, as if he could see a dark figure writing on a slate.
Things concerning Victoria must have been written on that slate, plans he had made, of which
neither his white angel nor hers would approve. But, he told himself, if they had to be carried
out, she would be to blame, for driving him to extremes. "Whilst thou art near me," he said
aloud, "my black angel lags behind, and if thou wert to be with me forever, I----"

"Since that cannot be, thou must find a better way to keep him in the background," Victoria
broke in lightly. But Si Maïeddine's compliments were oppressive. She wished it were not the
Arab way to pay so many. He had been different at first; and feeling the change in him with
a faint stirring of uneasiness, she hurried her steps to join M'Barka.

The invalid reclined on a rug of golden jackal skins, and rested a thin elbow on cushions of
dyed leather, braided in intricate strips by Touareg women. Victoria sat beside her, Maïeddine
opposite, and Fafann waited upon them as they ate.

After supper, while the Bedouin woman saw that everything was ready for her mistress and the
Roumia, in their tent, M'Barka spread out her precious sand from Mecca and the dunes round
her own Touggourt. She had it tied up in green silk, such as is used for the turbans of men
who have visited Mecca, lined with a very old Arab brocade, purple and gold, like the banners
that drape the tombs of marabouts. She opened the bag carefully, until it lay flat on the ground
in front of her knees, the sand piled in the middle, as much perhaps as could have been heaped
on a soup plate.

For a moment she sat gazing at the sand, her lips moving. She looked wan as old ivory in the
dying firelight, and in the hollows of her immense eyes seemed to dream the mysteries of all
ages. "Take a handful of sand," she said to Victoria. "Hold it over thine heart. Now, wish
with the whole force of thy soul."

Victoria wished to find Saidee safe, and to be able to help her, if she needed help.

"Put back the sand, sprinkling it over the rest."

The girl, though not superstitious, could not help being interested, even fascinated. It seemed
to her that the sand had a magical sparkle.

M'Barka's eyes became introspective, as if she waited for a message, or saw a vision. She was
as strange, as remote from modern womanhood as a Cassandra. Presently she started, and began
trailing her brown fingers lightly over the sand, pressing them down suddenly now and then,
until she had made three long, wavy lines, the lower ones rather like telegraphic dots and dashes.

"Lay the forefinger of thy left hand on any figure in these lines," she commanded. "Now on
another--yet again, for the third time. That is all thou hast to do. The rest is for me."

She took from some hiding-place in her breast a little old note-book, bound in dark leather,
glossy from constant use. With it came a perfume of sandalwood. Turning the yellow leaves of
the book, covered with fine Arab lettering, she read in a murmuring, indistinct voice, that
sounded to Victoria like one of those desert voices of which Maïeddine had spoken. Also she
measured spaces between the figures the girl had touched, and counted monotonously.

"Thy wish lies a long way from thee," she said at last. "A long way! Thou couldst never reach
it of thyself--never, not till the end of the world. I see thee--alone, very helpless. Thou
prayest. Allah sends thee a man--a strong man, whose brain and heart and arm are at thy service.
Allah is great!"

"Tell her what the man is like, cousin," Maïeddine prompted, eagerly.

"He is dark, and young. He is not of thy country, oh Rose of the West, but trust him, rely
upon him, or thou art undone. In thy future, just where thou hast ceased to look for them,
I see troubles and disappointments, even dangers. That is the time, above all others, to let
thyself be guided by the man Allah has sent to be thy prop. He has ready wit and courage. His
love for thee is great. It grows and grows. He tells thee of it; and thou--thou seest between
him and thee a barrier, high and fearful as a wall with sharp knives on top. For thine eyes
it is impassable. Thine heart is sad; and thy words to him will pierce his soul with despair.
But think again. Be true to thyself and to thy star. Speak another word, and throw down that
high barrier, as the wall of Jericho was thrown down. Thou canst do it. All will depend on
the decision of a moment--thy whole future, the future of the man, and of a woman whose face
I cannot see."

M'Barka smoothed away the tracings in the sand.

"What--is there no more?" asked Maïeddine.

"No, it is dark before my eyes now. The light has gone from the sand. I can still tell her
a few little things, perhaps. Such things as the luckiest colours to wear, the best days to
choose for journeys. But she is different from most girls. I do not think she would care for
such hints."

"All colours are lucky. All days are good," said Victoria. "I thank thee for what thou hast
told me, Lella M'Barka."

She did not wish to hear more. What she had heard was more than enough. Not that she really
believed that M'Barka could see into the future; but because of the "dark man." Any fortune-teller
might introduce a dark man into the picture of a fair girl's destiny; but the allusions were
so marked that Victoria's vague unrestfulness became distress. She tried to encourage herself
by thinking of Maïeddine's dignified attitude, from the beginning of their acquaintance until
now. And even now, he had changed only a little. He was too complimentary, that was all; and
the difference in his manner might arise from knowing her more intimately. Probably Lella M'Barka,
like many elderly women of other and newer civilizations, was over-romantic; and the best thing
was to prevent her from putting ridiculous ideas into Maïeddine's head. Such ideas would spoil
the rest of the journey for both.

"Remember all I have told thee, when the time comes," M'Barka warned her.

"Yes--oh yes, I will remember."

"Now it is my turn. Read the sand for me," said Maïeddine.

M'Barka made as if she would wrap the sand in its bag. "I can tell thy future better another
time. Not now. It would not be wise. Besides, I have done enough. I am tired."

"Look but a little way along the future, then, and say what thou seest. I feel that it will
bring good fortune to touch the sand where the hand of Ourïeda has touched it."

Always now, he spoke of Victoria, or to her, as "Rose" (Ourïeda in Arabic); but as M'Barka
gave her that name also, the girl could hardly object.

"I tell thee, instead it may bring thee evil."

"For good or evil, I will have the fortune now," Maïeddine insisted.

"Be it upon thy head, oh cousin, not mine. Take thy handful of sand, and make thy wish."

Maïeddine took it from the place Victoria had touched, and his wish was that, as the grains
of sand mingled, so their destinies might mingle inseparably, his and hers.

M'Barka traced the three rows of mystic signs, and read her notebook, mumbling. But suddenly
she let it drop into her lap, covering the signs with both thin hands.

"What ails thee?" Maïeddine asked, frowning.

"I saw thee stand still and let an opportunity slip by."

"I shall not do that."

"The sand has said it. Shall I stop, or go on?"

"Go on."

"I see another chance to grasp thy wish. This time thou stretchest out thine hand. I see thee,
in a great house--the house of one thou knowest, whose name I may not speak. Thou stretchest
out thine hand. The chance is given thee----"

"What then?"

"Then--I cannot tell thee, what then. Thou must not ask. My eyes are clouded with sleep. Come
Ourïeda, it is late. Let us go to our tent."

"No," said Maïeddine. "Ourïeda may go, but not thou."

Victoria rose quickly and lightly from among the jackal skins and Touareg cushions which Maïeddine
had provided for her comfort. She bade him good night, and with all his old calm courtesy he
kissed his hand after it had pressed hers. But there was a fire of anger or impatience in his eyes.

Fafann was in the tent, waiting to put her mistress to bed, and to help the Roumia if necessary.
The mattresses which had come rolled up on the brown mule's back, had been made into luxurious
looking beds, covered with bright-coloured, Arab-woven blankets, beautiful embroidered sheets
of linen, and cushions slipped into fine pillow-cases. Folding frames draped with new mosquito
nettings had been arranged to protect the sleepers' hands and faces; and there was a folding
table on which stood French gilt candlesticks and a glass basin and water-jug, ornamented with
gilded flowers; just such a basin and jug as Victoria had seen in the curiosity-shop of Mademoiselle
Soubise. There were folded towels, too, of silvery damask.

"What wonderful things we have!" the girl exclaimed. "I don't see how we manage to carry them
all. It is like a story of the 'Arabian Nights,' where one has but to rub a lamp, and a powerful
djinn brings everything one wants."

"The Lord Maïeddine is the powerful djinn who has brought all thou couldst possibly desire,
without giving thee even the trouble to wish for things," said Fafann, showing her white teeth,
and glancing sidelong at the Roumia. "These are not all. Many of these things thou hast seen
already. Yet there are more." Eagerly she lifted from the ground, which was covered with rugs,
a large green earthern jar. "It is full of rosewater to bathe thy face, for the water of the
desert here is brackish, and harsh to the skin, because of saltpetre. The Sidi ordered enough
rosewater to last till Ghardaia, in the M'Zab country. Then he will get thee more."

"But it is for us both--for Lella M'Barka more than for me," protested Victoria.

Fafann laughed. "My mistress no longer spends time in thinking of her skin. She prays much
instead; and the Sidi has given her an amulet which touched the sacred Black Stone at Mecca.
To her, that is worth all the rest; and it is worth this great journey, which she takes with
so much pain. The rosewater, and the perfumes from Tunis, and the softening creams made in
the tent of the Sidi's mother, are all offered to thee."

"No, no," the girl persisted, "I am sure they are meant more for Lella M'Barka than for me.
She is his cousin."

"Hast thou never noticed the caravans, when they have passed us in the desert, how it is always
the young and beautiful women who rest in the bassourahs, while the old ones trot after the
camels?"

"I have noticed that, and it is very cruel."

"Why cruel, oh Roumia? They have had their day. And when a man has but one camel, he puts upon
its back his treasure, the joy of his heart. A man must be a man, so say even the women. And
the Sidi is a man, as well as a great lord. He is praised by all as a hunter, and for the straightness
of his aim with a gun. He rides, thou seest, as if he were one with his horse, and as he gallops
in the desert, so would he gallop to battle if need be, for he is brave as the Libyan lion,
and strong as the heroes of old legends. Yet there is nothing too small for him to bend his
mind upon, if it be for thy pleasure and comfort. Thou shouldst be proud, instead of denying
that all the Sidi does is for thee. My mistress would tell thee so, and many women would be
dying of envy, daughters of Aghas and even of Bach Aghas. But perhaps, as thou art a Roumia,
thou hast different feelings."

"Perhaps," answered Victoria humbly, for she was crushed by Fafann's fierce eloquence. And
for a moment her heart was heavy; but she would not let herself feel a presentiment of trouble.

"What harm can happen to me?" she asked. "I haven't been guided so far for nothing. Si Maïeddine
is an Arab, and his ways aren't like the ways of men I've known, that's all. My sister's husband
was his friend--a great friend, whom he loved. What he does is more for Cassim's sake than mine."

Her cheeks were burning after the long day of sun, and because of her thoughts; yet she was
not glad to bathe them with Si Maïeddine's fragrant offering of rosewater, some of which Fafann
poured into the glass basin.

Not far away Maïeddine was still sitting by the fire with M'Barka.

"Tell me now," he said. "What didst thou see?"

"Nothing clearly. Another time, cousin. Let me have my mind fresh. I am like a squeezed orange."

"Yet I must know, or I shall not sleep. Thou art hiding something."

"All was vague--confused. I saw as through a torn cloud. There was the great house. Thou wert
there, a guest. Thou wert happy, thy desire granted, and then--by Allah, Maïeddine, I could
not see what happened; but the voice of the sand was like a storm in my ears, and the knowledge
came to me suddenly that thou must not wait too long for thy wish--the wish made with the sand
against thine heart."

"Thou couldst not see my wish. Thou art but a woman."

"I saw, because I am a woman, and I have the gift. Thou knowest I have the gift. Do not wait
too long, or thou mayest wait for ever."

"What wouldst thou have me do?"

"It is not for me to advise. As thou saidst, I am but a woman. Only--act! That is the message
of the sand. And now, unless thou wouldst have my dead body finish the journey in the bassour,
take me to my tent."

Maïeddine took her to the tent. And he asked no more questions. But all night he thought of
what M'Barka had said, and the message of the sand. It was a dangerous message, yet the counsel
was after his own heart.

XXX

In the morning he was still brooding over the message; and as they travelled through the black
desert on the way to Ghardaia and the hidden cities of the M'Zab, he fell into long silences.
Then, abruptly, he would rouse himself to gaiety and animation, telling old legends or new
tales, strange dramas of the desert, very seldom comedies; for there are few comedies in the
Sahara, except for the children.

Sometimes he was in danger of speaking out words which said themselves over and over in his
head. "If I 'wait too long, I may wait for ever.' Then, by Allah, I will not wait." But he
kept his tongue in control, though his brain was hot as if he wore no turban, under the blaze
of the sun. "I will leave things as they are while we are in this black Gehenna," he determined.
"What is written is written. Yet who has seen the book of the writing? And there is a curse
on all this country, till the M'Zab is passed."

After Bou-Saada, he had gradually forgotten, or almost forgotten, his fears. He had been happy
in the consciousness of power that came to him from the desert, where he was at home, and Europeans
were helpless strangers. But now, M'Barka's warnings had brought the fears back, like flapping
ravens. He had planned the little play of the sand-divining, and at first it had pleased him.
M'Barka's vision of the dark man who was not of Victoria's country could not have been better;
and because he knew that his cousin believed in the sand, he was superstitiously impressed
by her prophecy and advice. In the end, he had forced her to go on when she would have stopped,
yet he was angry with her for putting doubts into his mind, doubts of his own wisdom and the
way to succeed. With a girl of his own people, or indeed with any girl, if he had not loved
too much, he would have had no doubts. But he did not know how it was best to treat Victoria.
His love for her was so strong, that it was like fear, and in trying to understand her, he
changed his mind a dozen times a day. He was not used to this uncertainty, and hated to think
that he could be weak. Would she turn from him, if he broke the tacit compact of loyal friendship
which had made her trust him as a guide? He could not tell; though an Arab girl would scorn
him for keeping it. "Perhaps at heart all women are alike," he thought. "And if, now that I
am warned, I should risk waiting, I would be no man." At last, the only question left in his
mind was, "When?"

For two days they journeyed through desolation, in a burnt-out world where nothing had colour
except the sad violet sky which at evening flamed with terrible sunsets, cruelly beautiful
as funeral pyres. The fierce glow set fire to the black rocks which pointed up like dragons'
teeth, and turned them to glittering copper; polishing the dead white chalk of the chebka to
the dull gleam of dirty silver. Far away there were always purple hills, behind which it seemed
that hope and beauty might come to life again; but travelling from morning to night they never
appeared any nearer. The evil magic of the black desert, which Maïeddine called accursed because
of the M'Zabites, made the beautiful hills recede always, leaving only the ugly brown waves
of hardened earth, which were disheartening to climb, painful to descend.

At last, in the midst of black squalor, they came to an oasis like a bright jewel fallen in
the trough of swine. It was Berryan, the first town of the M'Zabites, people older than the
Arabs, and hated by them with a hatred more bitter than their loathing for Jews.

Maïeddine would not pass through the town, since it could be avoided, because in his eyes the
Beni-M'Zab were dogs, and in their eyes he, though heir to an agha, would be as carrion.

Sons of ancient Phoenicians, merchants of Tyre and Carthage, there never had been, never would
be, any lust for battle in the hearts of the M'Zabites. Their warfare had been waged by cunning,
and through mercenaries. They had fled before Arab warriors, driven from place to place by
brave, scornful enemies, and now, safely established in their seven holy cities, protected
by vast distances and the barrier of the black desert, they revenged their wrongs with their
wits, being rich, and great usurers. Though Mussulmans in these days, the schisms with which
they desecrated the true religion were worse in the eyes of Maïeddine than the foolish faith
of Christians, who, at least, were not backsliders. He would not even point out to Victoria
the strange minaret of the Abadite mosque at Berryan, which tapered like a brown obelisk against
the shimmering sky, for to him its very existence was a disgrace.

"Do not speak of it; do not even look at it," he said to her, when she exclaimed at the great
Cleopatra Needle. But she did look, having none of his prejudices, and he dared not bid her
let down the curtains of her bassour, as he would if she had been a girl of his own blood.

The extraordinary city, whose crowded, queerly-built houses were blocks of gold in the sunlight,
seemed beautiful to Victoria, coming in sight of it suddenly after days in the black desert.
The other six cities, called holy by the Beni-M'Zab, were far away still. She knew this, because
Maïeddine had told her they would not descend into the Wady M'Zab till next day. Berryan and
Guerrara were on the upper plateau; and Victoria could hardly bear to pass by, for Berryan
was by far the most Eastern-seeming place she had seen. She wondered if, should she ask him
as a favour, Maïeddine would rest there that night, instead of camping somewhere farther on,
in the hideous desert; for already it was late afternoon. But she would ask nothing of him
now, for he was no longer quite the trusty friend she had persuaded herself to think him. One
night, since the sand-divining, she had had a fearful dream concerning Maïeddine. Outside her
tent she had heard a soft padding sound, and peeping from under the flap, she had seen a splendid,
tawny tiger, who looked at her with brilliant topaz eyes which fascinated her so that she could
not turn away. But she knew that the animal was Maïeddine; that each night he changed himself
into a tiger; and that as a tiger he was more his real self than when by day he appeared as a man.

They filed past Berryan; the meharis, the white stallion, the pack-camel, and the mule, in
slow procession, along a rough road which wound close to the green oasis. And from among the
palm trees men and women and little children, gorgeous as great tropical birds, in their robes
of scarlet, ochre-yellow, and emerald, peered at the little caravan with cynical curiosity.
Victoria looked back longingly, for she knew that the way from Berryan to the Wady M'Zab would
be grim and toilsome under the burning sun. Hill after hill, they mounted and descended; hills
stony yet sandy, always the same dull colour, and so shapeless as to daze the brain with their
monotony. But towards evening, when the animals had climbed to the crest of a hill like a dingy
wave, suddenly a white obelisk shot up, pale and stiff as a dead man's finger. Tops of tall
palms were like the dark plumes on the heads of ten thousand dancing women of the Sahara, and
as a steep descent began, there glittered the five hidden cities, like a strange fairyland
lost in the desert. The whole Wady M'Zab lay under the eyes of the travellers, as if they looked
down over the rim of an immense cup. Here, some who were left of the sons of Tyre and Carthage
dwelt safe and snug, crouching in the protection of the valley they had found and reclaimed
from the abomination of desolation.

It seemed to Victoria that she looked on one of the great sights of the world: the five cities,
gleaming white, and glowing bronze, closely built on their five conical hills, which rose steeply
from the flat bottom of the gold-lined cup--Ghardaia, Beni-Isguen, Bou-Noura, Melika, and El-Ateuf.
The top of each hill was prolonged to a point by the tapering minaret of one of those Abadite
mosques which the girl thought the most Eastern of all things imported from the East. The oasis
which gave wealth to the M'Zabites surged round the towns like a green sea at ebb tide, sucked
back from a strand of gold; and as the caravan wound down the wonderful road with which the
Beni-M'Zab had traced the sheer side of their enchanted cup, the groaning of hundreds of well-chains
came plaintively up on the wind.

The well-stones had the obelisk shape of the minarets, in miniature; and Negroes--freed slaves
of the rich M'Zabites--running back and forth in pairs, to draw the water, were mere struggling
black ants, seen from the cup's rim. The houses of the five towns were like bleached skeletons,
and the arches that spanned the dark, narrow streets were their ribs.

Arrived at the bottom of the cup, it was necessary to pass through the longest and only modern
street of Ghardaia, the capital of the M'Zab. A wind had sprung up, to lift the sand which
sprinkled the hard-trodden ground with thick powder of gold dust, and whirl it westward against
the fire of sunset, red as a blowing spray of blood. "It is a sign of trouble when the sand
of the desert turns to blood," muttered Fafann to her mistress, quoting a Bedouin proverb.

The men of the M'Zab do not willingly give lodging to strangers, least of all to Arabs; and
at Beni-Isguen, holy city and scene of strange mysteries, no stranger may rest for the night.
But Maïeddine, respected by the ruling power, as by his own people, had a friend or two at
every Bureau Arabe and military station. A French officer stationed at Ghardaia had married
a beautiful Arab girl of good family distantly related to the Agha of the Ouled-Serrin, and
being at Algiers on official business, his wife away at her father's tent, he had promised
to lend his house, a few miles out of the town, to Si Maïeddine. It was a long, low building
of toub, the sun-dried sand-blocks of which most houses are made in the ksour, or Sahara villages,
but it had been whitewashed, and named the Pearl.

There they slept, in the cool shadow of the oasis, and early next morning went on.

As soon as they had passed out of this hidden valley, where a whole race of men had gathered
for refuge and wealth-building, Victoria felt, rather than saw, a change in Maïeddine. She
hardly knew how to express it to herself, unless it was that he had become more Arab. His courtesies
suggested less the modern polish learned from the French (in which he could excel when he chose)
than the almost royal hospitality of some young Bey escorting a foreign princess through his
dominions. Always "très-mâle," as Frenchwomen pronounced him admiringly, Si Maïeddine began
to seem masculine in an untamed, tigerish way. He was restless, and would not always be contented
to ride El Biod, beside the tall, white mehari, but would gallop far ahead, and then race back
to rejoin the little caravan, rushing straight at the animals as if he must collide with them,
then, at the last instant, when Victoria's heart bounded, reining in his horse, so that El
Biod's forefeet--shod Arab-fashion--pawed the air, and the animal sat upon his haunches, muscles
straining and rippling under the creamlike skin.

Or, sometimes, Maïeddine would spring from the white stallion's back, letting El Biod go free,
while his master marched beside Guelbi, with that panther walk that the older races, untrammelled
by the civilization of towns, have kept unspoiled.

The Arab's eyes were more brilliant, never dreamy now, and he looked at Victoria often, with
disconcerting steadiness, instead of lowering his eyelids as men of Islam, accustomed to the
mystery of the veil, unconsciously do with European women whom they respect, though they do
not understand.

So they went on, travelling the immeasurable desert; and Victoria had not asked again, since
Maïeddine's refusal, the name of the place to which they were bound. M'Barka seemed brighter,
as if she looked forward to something, each day closer at hand; and her courage would have
given Victoria confidence, even if the girl had been inclined to forebodings. They were going
somewhere, Lella M'Barka knew where, and looked forward joyously to arriving. The girl fancied
that their destination was the same, though at first she had not thought so. Words that M'Barka
let drop inadvertently now and then, built up this impression in her mind.

The "habitude du Sud," as Maïeddine called it, when occasionally they talked French together,
was gradually taking hold of the girl. Sometimes she resented it, fearing that by this time
it must have altogether enslaved Saidee, and dreading the insidious fascination for herself;
sometimes she found pleasure and peace in it; but in every mood the influence was hard to throw
off.

"The desert has taken hold of thee," Maïeddine said one day, when he had watched her in silence
for a while, and seen the rapt look in her eyes. "I knew the time would come, sooner or later.
It has come now."

"No," Victoria answered. "I do not belong to the desert."

"If not to-day, then to-morrow," he finished, as if he had not heard.

They were going on towards Ouargla. So much he had told her, though he had quickly added, "But
we shall not stop there." He was waiting still, though they were out of the black desert and
the accursed land of the renegades. He was not afraid of anything or anyone here, in this vastness,
where a European did not pass once a year, and few Arabs, only the Spahis, carrying mails from
one Bureau Arabe to another, or tired soldiers changing stations. The beautiful country of
the golden dunes, with its horizon like a stormy sea, was the place of which he said in his
thoughts, "It shall happen there."

On the other side of Ghardaia, even when Victoria had ceased to be actually impatient for her
meeting with Saidee, she had longed to know the number of days, that she might count them.
But now she had drunk so deep of the colour and the silence that, in spite of herself, she
was passing beyond that phase. What were a few days more, after so many years? She wondered
how she could have longed to go flying across the desert in Nevill Caird's big motor-car; nevertheless,
she never ceased to wish for Stephen Knight. Her thoughts of him and of the desert were inextricably
and inexplicably mingled, more than ever since the night when she had danced in the Agha's
tent, and Stephen's face had come before her eyes, as if in answer to her call. Constantly
she called him now. When there was some fleeting, beautiful effect of light or shadow, she
said, "How I wish he were here to see that!" She never named him in her mind. He was "he":
that was name enough. Yet it did not occur to her that she was "in love" with Knight. She had
never had time to think about falling in love. There had always been Saidee, and dancing; and
to Victoria, the desire to make money enough to start out and find her sister, had taken the
place which ideas of love and marriage fill in most girls' heads. Therefore she did not know
what to make of her feeling for Stephen. But when a question floated into her brain, she answered
it simply by explaining that he was different from any other man she had met; and that, though
she had known him only a few days, from the first he had seemed more a friend than Si Maïeddine,
or any one else whom she knew much better than Stephen.

As they travelled, she had many thoughts which pleased her--thoughts which could have come
to her nowhere else except in the desert, and often she talked to herself, because M'Barka
could not understand her feelings, and she did not wish to make Maïeddine understand.

"Burning, burning," was the adjective which she repeated oftenest, in an almost awestruck whisper,
as her eyes travelled over immense spaces; for she thought that the desert might have dropped
out of the sun. The colour of sand and sky was colour on fire, blazing. The whole Sahara throbbed
with the unimaginable fire of creative cosmic force, deep, vital orange, needed by the primitive
peoples of the earth who had not risen high enough yet to deserve or desire the finer vibrations.

As she leaned out of the bassour, the heat of the sun pressed on her lightly veiled head, like
the golden lid of a golden box. She could feel it as an actual weight; and invisible behind
it a living power which could crush her in an instant, as the paw of a lion might crush a flower
petal.

Africa itself was this savage power, fierce as fire, ever smouldering, sometimes flaming with
the revolt of Islam against other creeds; but the heart of the fire was the desert. Only the
shady seguias in the oasis towns cooled it, like children's fingers on a madman's forehead;
or the sound of a boy's flute in a river bed, playing the music of Pan, changeless, monotonous
yet thrilling, as the music of earth and all Nature.

There were tracts in the desert which colour-blind people might have hated; but Victoria grew
to think the dreariest stretches beautiful; and even the occasional plagues of flies which
irritated M'Barka beyond endurance, only made Victoria laugh.

Sometimes came caravans, in this billowing immensity between the M'Zab and Ouargla--city of
Solomon, whither the Queen of Sheba rode on her mehari: caravans blazing red and yellow, which
swept like slow lines of flame across the desert, going east towards the sunrise, or west where
the sunset spreads over the sky like a purple fan opening, or the tail of a celestial peacock.

What Victoria had once imagined the desert to be of vast emptiness, and what she found it to
be of teeming life, was like the difference between a gold-bright autumn leaf seen by the naked
eye, and the same leaf swarming under a powerful microscope.

The girl never tired of following with her eyes the vague tracks of caravans that she could
see dimly sketched upon the sand, vanishing in the distance, like lines traced on the water
by a ship. She would be gazing at an empty horizon when suddenly from over the waves of the
dunes would appear a dark fleet; a procession of laden camels like a flotilla of boats in a
desolate sea.

They were very effective, as they approached across the desert, these silent, solemn beasts,
but Victoria pitied them, because they were made to work till they fell, and left to die in
the shifting sand, when no longer useful to their unloving masters.

"My poor dears, this is only one phase," she would say to them as they plodded past, their
feet splashing softly down on the sand like big wet sponges, leaving heart-shaped marks behind,
which looked like violets as the hollows filled up with shadow. "Wait till your next chance
on earth. I'm sure it will make up for everything."

But Maïeddine told her there was no need to be sorry for the sufferings of camels, since all
were deserved. Once, he said, they had been men--a haughty tribe who believed themselves better
than the rest of the world. They broke off from the true religion, and lest their schism spread,
Allah turned the renegades into camels. He compelled them to bear the weight of their sins
in the shape of humps, and also to carry on their backs the goods of the Faithful, whose beliefs
they had trampled under foot. While keeping their stubbornness of spirit they must kneel to
receive their loads, and rise at the word of command. Remembering their past, they never failed
to protest with roarings, against these indignities, nor did their faces ever lose the old
look of sullen pride. But, in common with the once human storks, they had one consolation.
Their sins expiated, they would reincarnate as men; and some other rebellious tribe would take
their place as camels.

Five days' journeying from Ghardaia brought the travellers to a desert world full of movement
and interest. There were many caravans going northward. Pretty girls smiled at them from swaying
red bassourahs, sitting among pots and pans, and bundles of finery. Little children in nests
of scarlet rags, on loaded camels, clasped squawking cocks and hens, tied by the leg. Splendid
Negroes with bare throats like columns of black marble sang strange, chanting songs as they
strode along. White-clad Arabs whose green turbans told that they had been to Mecca, walked
beside their young wives' camels. Withered crones in yellow smocks trudged after the procession,
driving donkeys weighed down with sheepskins full of oil. Baby camels with waggling, tufted
humps followed their mothers. Slim grey sloughis and Kabyle dogs quarrelled with each other,
among flocks of black and white goats; and at night, the sky pulsed with the fires of desert
encampments, rosy as northern lights.

Just before the walled city of Ouargla, Victoria saw her first mirage, clear as a dream between
waking and sleeping. It was a salt lake, in which Guelbi and the other animals appeared to
wade knee-deep in azure waves, though there was no water; and the vast, distant oasis hovered
so close that the girl almost believed she had only to stretch out her hand and touch the trunks
of the crowding palm trees.

M'Barka was tired, and they rested for two days in the strange Ghuâra town, the "City of Roses,"
founded (according to legend), by Solomon, King of Jerusalem, and built for him by djenoum
and angels in a single night. They lived as usual in the house of the Caïd, whose beautiful
twin daughters told Victoria many things about the customs of the Ghuâra people, descendants
of the ancient Garamantes. How much happier and freer they were than Arab girls, how much purer
though gayer was the life at Ouargla, Queen of the Oases, than at any other less enlightened
desert city; how marvellous was the moulet-el-rass, the dance cure for headache and diseases
of the brain; how wonderful were the women soothsayers; and what a splendid thing it was to
see the bridal processions passing through the streets, on the one day of the year when there
is marrying and giving in marriage in Ouargla.

The name of the prettier twin was Zorah, and she had black curls which fell straight down over
her brilliant eyes, under a scarlet head-dress. "Dost thou love Si Maïeddine?" she asked the
Roumia, with a kind of innocent boldness.

"As a friend who has been very kind," Victoria answered.

"Not as a lover, oh Roumia?" Zorah, like all girls of Ouargla, was proud of her knowledge of
Arabic.

"No. Not as a lover."

"Is there then one of thine own people whom thou lovest as a lover, Rose of the West?"

"I have no lover, little white moon."

"Si Maïeddine will be thy lover, whether thou desirest him or not."

"Thou mistakest, oh Zorah."

"I do not mistake. If thou dost not yet know I am right, thou wilt know before many days. When
thou findest out all that is in his heart for thee, remember our talk to-day, in the court
of oranges."

"I will tell thee thou wert wrong in this same court of oranges when I pass this way again
without Si Maïeddine."

The Ghuâra girl shook her head, until her curls seemed to ring like bells of jet. "Something
whispers to my spirit that thou wilt never again pass this way, oh Roumia; that never again
will we talk together in this court of oranges."

XXXI

If it had not been for Zorah and her twin sister Khadijah, Maïeddine would have said to himself
at Ouargla, "Now my hour has come." But though his eyes saw not even the shadow of a woman
in the Caïd's house, his ears heard the laughter of young girls, in which Victoria's voice
mingled; and besides, he knew, as Arabs contrive to know everything which concerns others,
that his host had daughters. He was well aware of the freemasonry existing among the wearers
of veils, the dwellers behind shut doors; and though Victoria was only a Roumia, the Caïd's
daughters would joyfully scheme to help her against a man, if she asked their help.

So he put the hour-hand of his patience a little ahead; and Victoria and he were outwardly
on the same terms as before when they left Ouargla, and passed on to the region of the low
dunes, shaped like the tents of nomads buried under sand, the region of beautiful jewelled
stones of all colours, and the region of the chotts, the desert lakes, like sad, wide-open
eyes in a dead face.

As they drew near to the Zaouïa of Temacin, and the great oasis city of Touggourt, the dunes
increased in size, surging along the horizon in turbulent golden billows. M'Barka knew that
she was close to her old home, the ancient stronghold of her royal ancestors, those sultans
who had owned no master under Allah; for though it was many years since she had come this way,
she remembered every land-mark which would have meant nothing to a stranger. She was excited,
and longed to point out historic spots to Victoria, of whom she had grown fond; but Maïeddine
had forbidden her to speak. He had something to say to the girl before telling her that they
were approaching another city of the desert. Therefore M'Barka kept her thoughts to herself,
not chatting even with Fafann; for though she loved Victoria, she loved Maïeddine better. She
had forgiven him for bringing her the long way round, sacrificing her to his wish for the girl's
society, because the journey was four-fifths finished, and instead of being worse, her health
was better. Besides, whatever Maïeddine wanted was for the Roumia's good, or would be eventually.

When they were only a short march from Touggourt, and could have reached there by dark, Maïeddine
nevertheless ordered an early halt. The tents were set up by the Negroes among the dunes, where
not even the tall spire of Temacin's mosque was visible. And he led the little caravan somewhat
out of the track, where no camels were likely to pass within sight, to a place where there
were no groups of black tents in the yellow sand, and where the desert, in all its beauty,
appeared lonelier than it was in reality.

By early twilight the camp was made, and the Soudanese were preparing dinner. Never once in
all the Sahara journey had there been a sunset of such magical loveliness, it seemed to Maïeddine,
and he took it as a good omen.

"If thou wilt walk a little way with me, Ourïeda," he said, "I will show thee something thou
hast never seen yet. When my cousin is rested, and it is time for supper, I will bring thee back."

Together they mounted and descended the dunes, until they could no longer see the camp or the
friendly smoke of the fire, which rose straight up, a scarf of black gauze, against a sky of
green and lilac shot with crimson and gold. It was not the first time that Victoria had strolled
away from the tents at sunset with Maïeddine, and she could not refuse, yet this evening she
would gladly have stayed with Lella M'Barka.

The sand was curiously crisp under their feet as they walked, and the crystallized surface
crackled as if they were stepping on thin, dry toast. By and by they stood still on the summit
of a dune, and Maïeddine took from the hood of his burnous a pair of field-glasses of the most
modern make.

"Look round thee," he said. "I have had these with me since our start, but I saved them for
to-day, to give thee a surprise."

Victoria adjusted the glasses, which were very powerful, and cried out at what she saw. The
turmoil of the dunes became a battle of giants. Sand waves as high as the sky rushed suddenly
towards her, towering far above her head, as if she were a fly in the midst of a stormy ocean.
The monstrous yellow shapes came closing in from all sides, threatening to engulf her. She
felt like a butterfly in a cage of angry lions.

"It is terrible!" she exclaimed, letting the glasses fall from her eyes. The cageful of lions
sat down, calmed, but now that the butterfly had seen them roused, never could they look the
same again.

The effect upon the girl was exactly what Maïeddine had wanted. For once Victoria acted as
he expected her to do in given circumstances. "She is only a woman after all," he thought.

"If thou wert alone in this sea of gold, abandoned, to find thine own way, with no guide but
the stars, then indeed thou mightst say 'it is terrible,'" he answered. "For these waves roll
between thee and the north, whence thou hast come, and still higher between thee and the desired
end of thy journey. So high are they, that to go up and down is like climbing and descending
mountains, one after another, all day, day after day. And beyond, where thou must soon go if
thou art to find thy sister, there are no tracks such as those we have followed thus far. In
these shifting sands, not only men and camels, but great caravans, and even whole armies have
been lost and swallowed up for ever. For gravestones, they have only the dunes, and no man
will know where they lie till the world is rolled up as a scroll in the hand of Allah."

Victoria grew pale.

"Always before thou hast tried to make me love the desert," she said, slowly. "If there were
anything ugly to see, thou hast bidden me turn my head the other way, or if I saw something
dreadful thou wouldst at once begin to chant a song of happiness, to make me forget. Why dost
thou wish to frighten me now?"

"It is not that I mean to give thee pain, Ourïeda." Maïeddine's voice changed to a tone that
was gentle and pleading. "It is only that I would have thee see how powerless thou wouldst
be alone among the dunes, where for days thou mightst wander, meeting no man. Or if thou hadst
any encounter, it might be with a Touareg, masked in blue, with a long knife at his belt, and
in his breast a heart colder than steel."

"I see well enough that I would be powerless alone," Victoria repeated. "Dost thou need to
tell me that?"

"It may be not," said Maïeddine. "But there is a thing I need to tell thee. My need is very
sore. Because I have kept back the words I have burned to speak, my soul is on fire, oh Rose!
I love thee. I die for thee. I must have thee for mine!"

He snatched both her hands in his, and crushed them against his lips. Then, carried away by
the flower-like touch of her flesh, he let her hands go, and caught her to his heart, folding
her in his burnous as if he would hide her even from the eye of the sun in the west. But she
threw herself back, and pushed him away, with her palms pressed against his breast. She could
feel under her hands a great pounding as of a hammer that would beat down a yielding wall.

"Thou art no true Arab!" she cried at him.

The words struck Maïeddine in a vulnerable place; perhaps the only one.

He had expected her to exclaim, to protest, to struggle, and to beg that he would let her go.
But what she said was a sharp, unlooked for stab. Above all things except his manhood, he prided
himself on being a true Arab. Involuntarily he loosened his clasp of her waist, and she seized
the chance to wrench herself free, panting a little, her eyes dilated. But as she twisted herself
out of his arms, he caught her by the wrist. He did not grasp it tightly enough to hurt, yet
the grip of his slim brown hand was like a bracelet of iron. She knew that she could not escape
from it by measuring her strength against his, or even by surprising him with some quick movement;
for she had surprised him once, and he would be on guard not to let it happen again. Now she
did not even try to struggle, but stood still, looking up at him steadily. Yet her heart also
was like a hammer that beat against a wall; and she thought of the endless dunes in whose turmoil
she was swallowed up. If Stephen Knight were here--but he was far away; and Maïeddine, whom
she had trusted, was a man who served another God than hers. His thoughts of women were not
as Stephen's thoughts.

"Think of thy white angel," she said. "He stands between thee and me."

"Nay, he gives thee to me," Maïeddine answered. "I mean no harm to thee, but only good, as
long as we both shall live. My white angel wills that thou shalt be my wife. Thou shalt not
say I am no true Arab. I am true to Allah and my own manhood when I tell thee I can wait no
longer."

"But thou art not true to me when thou wouldst force me against my will to be thy wife. We
have drunk from the same cup. Thou art pledged to loyalty."

"Is it disloyal to love?"

"Thy love is not true love, or thou wouldst think of me before thyself."

"I think of thee before all the world. Thou art my world. I had meant to wait till thou wert
in thy sister's arms; but since the night when I saw thee dance, my love grew as a fire grows
that feeds upon rezin. If I offend thee, thou alone art to blame. Thou wert too beautiful that
night. I have been mad since then. And now thou must give me thy word that thou wilt marry
me according to the law of Islam. Afterwards, when we can find a priest of thine own religion,
we will stand before him."

"Let my hand go, Si Maïeddine, if thou wishest me to talk further with thee," Victoria said.

He smiled at her and obeyed; for he knew that she could not escape from him, therefore he would
humour her a little. In a few more moments he meant to have her in his arms again.

His smile gave the girl no hope. She thought of Zorah and the court of the oranges.

"What wilt thou do if I say I will not be thy wife?" she asked, in a quiet voice; but there
was a fluttering in her throat.

A spark lit in his eyes. The moon was rising now, as the sun set, and the two lights, silver
and rose, touched his face, giving it an unreal look, as if he were a statue of bronze which
had "come alive," Victoria thought, just as she had "come alive" in her statue-dance. He had
never been so handsome, but his dark splendour was dreadful to her, for he did not seem like
a human man whose heart could be moved to mercy.

For an instant he gave her no answer, but his eyes did not leave hers. "Since thou askest me
that question, I would make thee change thy 'no' into 'yes.' But do not force me to be harsh
with thee, oh core of my heart, oh soul of my soul! I tell thee fate has spoken. The sand has
spoken--sand gathered from among these dunes. It is for that reason in part that I brought
thee here."

"The sand-divining!" Victoria exclaimed. "Lella M'Barka told thee----"

"She told me not to wait. And her counsel was the counsel of my own heart. Look, oh Rose, where
the moon glitters on the sand--the sand that twined thy life with mine. See how the crystals
shape themselves like little hands of Fatma; and they point from thee to me, from me to thee.
The desert has brought us together. The desert gives us to one another. The desert will never
let us part."

Victoria's eyes followed his pointing gesture. The sand-crystals sparkled in the sunset and
moonrise, like myriads of earthbound fireflies. Their bright facets seemed to twinkle at her
with cold, fairy eyes, waiting to see what she would do, and she did not know. She did not
know at all what she would do.

XXXII

"Dost thou wish me to hate thee, Si Maïeddine?" she asked.

"I do not fear thy hate. When thou belongest to me, I will know how to turn it into love."

"Perhaps if I were a girl of thine own people thou wouldst know, but I see now that thy soul
and my soul are far apart. If thou art so wicked, so treacherous, they will never be nearer
together."

"The Koran does not teach us to believe that the souls of women are as ours."

"I have read. And if there were no other reason than that, it would be enough to put a high
wall between me and a man of thy race."

For the first time Maïeddine felt anger against the girl. But it did not make him love or want
her the less.

"Thy sister did not feel that," he said, almost menacingly.

"Then the more do I feel it. Is it wise to use her as an argument?"

"I need no argument," he answered, sullenly. "I have told thee what is in my mind. Give me
thy love, and thou canst bend me as thou wilt. Refuse it, and I will break thee. No! do not
try to run from me. In an instant I should have thee in my arms. Even if thou couldst reach
M'Barka, of what use to grasp her dress and cry to her for help against me? She would not give
it. My will is law to her, as it must be to thee if thou wilt not learn wisdom, and how to
hold me by a thread of silk, a thread of thy silky hair. No one would listen to thee. Not Fafann,
not the men of the Soudan. It is as if we two were alone in the desert. Dost thou understand?"

"Thou hast made me understand. I will not try to run. Thou hast the power to take me, since
thou hast forgotten thy bond of honour, and thou art stronger than I. Yet will I not live to
be thy wife, Si Maïeddine. Wouldst thou hold a dead girl in thine arms?"

"I would hold thee dead or living. Thou wouldst be living at first; and a moment with thine
heart beating against mine would be worth a lifetime--perhaps worth eternity."

"Wouldst thou take me if--if I love another man?"

He caught her by the shoulders, and his hands were hard as steel. "Darest thou to tell me that
thou lovest a man?"

"Yes, I dare," she said. "Kill me if thou wilt. Since I have no earthly help against thee,
kill my body, and let God take my spirit where thou canst never come. I love another man."

"Tell me his name, that I may find him."

"I will not. Nothing thou canst do will make me tell thee."

"It is that man who was with thee on the boat."

"I said I would not tell thee."

He shook her between his hands, so that the looped-up braids of her hair fell down, as they
had fallen when she danced, and the ends loosened into curls. She looked like a pale child,
and suddenly a great tenderness for her melted his heart. He had never known that feeling before,
and it was very strange to him; for when he had loved, it had been with passion, not with tenderness.

"Little white star," he said, "thou art but a babe, and I will not believe that any man has
ever touched thy mouth with his lips. Am I right?"

"Yes, because he does not love me. It is I who love him, that is all," she answered naïvely.
"I only knew how I really felt when thou saidst thou wouldst make me love thee, for I was so
sure that never, never couldst thou do that. And I shall love the other man all my life, even
though I do not see him again."

"Thou shalt never see him again. For a moment, oh Rose, I hated thee, and I saw thy face through
a mist red as thy blood and his, which I wished to shed. But thou art so young--so white--so
beautiful. Thou hast come so far with me, and thou hast been so sweet. There is a strange pity
for thee in my breast, such as I have never known for any living thing. I think it must be
that thou hast magic in thine eyes. It is as if thy soul looked out at me through two blue
windows, and I could fall down and worship, Allah forgive me! I knew no man had kissed thee.
And the man thou sayest thou lovest is but a man in a dream. This is my hour. I must not let
my chance slip by, M'Barka told me. Yet promise me but one thing and I will hold thee sacred--I
swear on the head of my father."

"What is the one thing?"

"That if thy sister Lella Saïda puts thine hand in mine, thou wilt be my wife."

The girl's face brightened, and the great golden dunes, silvering now in moonlight, looked
no longer like terrible waves ready to overwhelm her. She was sure of Saidee, as she was sure
of herself.

"That I will promise thee," she said.

He looked at her thoughtfully. "Thou hast great confidence in thy sister."

"Perfect confidence."

"And I----" he did not finish his sentence. "I am glad I did not wait longer," he went on instead.
"Thou knowest now that I love thee, that thou hast by thy side a man and not a statue. And
I have not let my chance slip by, because I have gained thy promise."

"If Saidee puts my hand in thine."

"It is the same thing."

"Thou dost not know my sister."

"But I know----" Again he broke off abruptly. There were things it were better not to say,
even in the presence of one who would never be able to tell of an indiscretion. "It is a truce
between us?" he asked.

"Yes."

"Forget, then, that I frightened thee."

"Thou didst not frighten me. I did not know what to do, and I thought I might have to die without
seeing Saidee. Yet I was not afraid, I think--I hope--I was not afraid."

"Thou wilt not have to die without seeing thy sister. Now, more than before, I shall be in
haste to put thee in her charge. But thou wilt die without seeing again the face of that man
whose name, which thou wouldst not speak, shall be as smoke blown before the wind. Never shalt
thou see him on earth, and if he and I meet I will kill him."

Victoria shut her eyes, and pressed her hands over them. She felt very desolate, alone with
Maïeddine among the dunes. She would not dare to call Stephen now, lest he should hear and
come. Nevertheless she could not be wholly unhappy, for it was wonderful to have learned what
love was. She loved Stephen Knight.

"Thou wilt let me go back to M'Barka?" she said to Maïeddine.

"I will take thee back," he amended. "Because I have thy promise."

XXXIII

On a flat white roof, which bubbled up here and there in rounded domes, a woman stood looking
out over interminable waves of yellow sand, a vast golden silence which had no end on her side
of the horizon, east, west, north, or south.

No veil hid her face, but folds of thin woollen stuff beautifully woven, and dyed blue, almost
as dark as indigo, fell from her head nearly to her feet, over a loose robe of orange-red,
cut low in the neck, with sleeves hiding the elbows. She looked towards the west, shading her
eyes with her hand: and the sun near its setting streamed over her face and hair, chiselling
her features in marble, brightening her auburn hair to fiery gold, giving her brown eyes the
yellow tints of a topaz, or of the amber beads which hung in a long chain, as far down as her
knees.

From the white roof many things could be seen besides the immense monotonous dunes along whose
ridges orange fire seemed to play unceasingly against the sky.

There was the roof of the Zaouïa mosque, with its low, white domes grouped round the minaret,
as somewhere below the youngest boys of the school grouped round the taleb, or teacher. On
the roof of the mosque bassourah frames were in the making, splendid bassourahs, which, when
finished, would be the property of the great marabout, greatest of all living marabouts, lord
of the Zaouïa, lord of the desert and its people, as far as the eye could reach, and farther.

There were other roofs, too, bubbling among the labyrinth of square open courts and long, tunnel-like,
covered and uncovered corridors which formed the immense, rambling Zaouïa, or sacred school
of Oued Tolga. Things happened on these roofs which would have interested a stranger, for there
was spinning of sheep's wool, making of men's burnouses, fashioning of robes for women, and
embroidering of saddles; but the woman who looked towards the west with the sun in her eyes
was tired of the life on sun-baked roofs and in shadowed courts.

The scent of orange blossoms in her own little high-walled garden came up to her; yet she had
forgotten that it was sweet, for she had never loved it. The hum of the students' voices, faintly
heard through the open-work of wrought-iron windows, rasped her nerves, for she had heard it
too often; and she knew that the mysterious lessons, the lessons which puzzled her, and constantly
aroused her curiosity, were never repeated aloud by the classes, as were these everlasting
chapters of the Koran.

Men sleeping on benches in the court of the mosque, under arches in the wall, waked and drank
water out of bulging goatskins, hanging from huge hooks. Pilgrims washed their feet in the
black marble basin of the trickling fountain, for soon it would be time for moghreb, the prayer
of the evening.

Far away, eighteen miles distant across the sands, she could see the twenty thousand domes
of Oued Tolga, the desert city which had taken its name from the older Zaouïa, and the oued
or river which ran between the sacred edifice on its golden hill, and the ugly toub-built village,
raised above danger of floods on a foundation of palm trunks.

Far away the domes of the desert city shimmered like white fire in the strange light that hovers
over the Sahara before the hour of sunset. Behind those distant, dazzling bubbles of unearthly
whiteness, the valley-like oases of the southern desert, El Souf, dimpled the yellow dunes
here and there with basins of dark green. Near by, a little to the left of the Zaouïa hill,
such an oasis lay, and the woman on the white roof could look across a short stretch of sand,
down into its green depths. She could watch the marabout's men repairing the sloping sand-walls
with palm trunks, which kept them from caving in, and saved the precious date-palms from being
engulfed in a yellow tide. It was the marabout's own private oasis, and brought him in a large
income every year. But everything was the marabout's. The woman on the roof was sick to death
of his riches, his honours, his importance, for she was the marabout's wife; and in these days
she loved him as little as she loved the orange garden he had given her, and all the things
that were hers because she was his.

It was very still in the Zaouïa of Oued Tolga. The only sound was the droning of the boys'
voices, which came faintly from behind iron window-gratings below, and that monotonous murmur
emphasized the silence, as the humming of bees in a hive makes the stillness of a garden in
summer more heavy and hot.

No noises came from the courts of the women's quarters, or those of the marabout's guests,
and attendants, and servants; not a voice was raised in that more distant part of the Zaouïa
where the students lived, and where the poor were lodged and fed for charity's sake. No doubt
the village, across the narrow river in its wide bed, was buzzing with life at this time of
day; but seldom any sound there was loud enough to break the slumberous silence of the great
Zaouïa. And the singing of the men in the near oasis who fought the sand, the groaning of the
well-cords woven of palm fibre which raised the buckets of hollowed palm-trunks, was as monotonous
as the recitation of the Koran. The woman had heard it so often that she had long ago ceased
to hear it at all.

She looked westward, across the river to the ugly village with the dried palm-leaves on its
roofs, and far away to the white-domed city, the dimpling oases and the mountainous dunes that
towered against a flaming sky; then eastward, towards the two vast desert lakes, or chotts,
one of blue water, the other of saltpetre, which looked bluer than water, and had pale edges
that met the sand like snow on gold. Above the lake of water suddenly appeared a soaring line
of white, spreading and mounting higher, then turning from white to vivid rose. It was the
flamingoes rising and flying over the chott, the one daily phenomenon of the desert which the
woman on the roof still loved to watch. But her love for the rosy line against the blue was
not entirely because of its beauty, though it was startlingly beautiful. It meant something
for which she waited each evening with a passionate beating of her heart under the orange-coloured
robe and the chain of amber beads. It meant sunset and the coming of a message. But the doves
on the green tiled minaret of the Zaouïa mosque had not begun yet to dip and wheel. They would
not stir from their repose until the muezzin climbed the steps to call the hour of evening
prayer, and until they flew against the sunset the message could not come.

She must wait yet awhile. There was nothing to do till the time of hope for the message. There
was never anything else that she cared to do through the long days from sunrise to sunset,
unless the message gave her an incentive when it came.

In the river-bed, the women and young girls had not finished their washing, which was to them
not so much labour as pleasure, since it gave them their opportunity for an outing and a gossip.
In the bed of shining sand lay coloured stones like jewels, and the women knelt on them, beating
wet bundles of scarlet and puce with palm branches. The watcher on the roof knew that they
were laughing and chattering together though she could not hear them. She wondered dimly how
many years it was since she had laughed, and said to herself that probably she would never
laugh again, although she was still young, only twenty-eight. But that was almost old for a
woman of the East. Those girls over there, wading knee-deep in the bright water to fill their
goatskins and curious white clay jugs, would think her old. But they hardly knew of her existence.
She had married the great marabout, therefore she was a marabouta, or woman saint, merely because
she was fortunate enough to be his wife, and too highly placed for them to think of as an earthly
woman like themselves. What could it matter whether such a radiantly happy being were young
or old? And she smiled a little as she imagined those poor creatures picturing her happiness.
She passed near them sometimes going to the Moorish baths, but the long blue drapery covered
her face then, and she was guarded by veiled negresses and eunuchs. They looked her way reverently,
but had never seen her face, perhaps did not know who she was, though no doubt they had all
heard and gossipped about the romantic history of the new wife, the beautiful Ouled Naïl, to
whom the marabout had condescended because of her far-famed, her marvellous, almost incredible
loveliness, which made her a consort worthy of a saint.

The river was a mirror this evening, reflecting the sunset of crimson and gold, and the young
crescent moon fought for and devoured, then vomited forth again by strange black cloud-monsters.
The old brown palm-trunks, on which the village was built, were repeated in the still water,
and seemed to go down and down, as if their roots might reach to the other side of the world.

Over the crumbling doorways of the miserable houses bleached skulls and bones of animals were
nailed for luck. The red light of the setting sun stained them as if with blood, and they were
more than ever disgusting to the watcher on the white roof. They were the symbols of superstitions
the most Eastern and barbaric, ideas which she hated, as she was beginning to hate all Eastern
things and people.

The streak of rose which meant a flock of flying flamingoes had faded out of the sky. The birds
seemed to have vanished into the sunset, and hardly had they gone when the loud crystalline
voice of the muezzin began calling the faithful to prayer. Work stopped for the day. The men
and youths of the Zaouïa climbed the worn stairs to the roof of the mosque, where, in their
white turbans and burnouses, they prostrated themselves before Allah, going down on their faces
as one man. The doves of the minaret--called Imams, because they never leave the mosque or
cease to prostrate themselves, flying head downwards--began to wheel and cry plaintively. The
moment when the message might come was here at last.

The white roof had a wall, which was low in places, in others very high, so high that no one
standing behind it could be seen. This screen of whitewashed toub was arranged to hide persons
on the roof from those on the roof of the mosque; but window-like openings had been made in
it, filled in with mashrabeyah work of lace-like pattern; an art brought to Africa long ago
by the Moors, after perfecting it in Granada. And this roof was not the only one thus screened
and latticed. There was another, where watchers could also look down into the court of the
fountain, at the carved doors taken from the Romans, and up to the roof of the mosque with
all its little domes. From behind those other lace-like windows in the roof-wall, sparkled
such eyes as only Ouled Naïl girls can have; but the first watcher hated to think of those
eyes and their wonderful fringe of black lashes. It was an insult to her that they should beautify
this house, and she ignored their existence, though she had heard her negresses whispering
about them.

While the faithful prayed, a few of the wheeling doves flew across from the mosque to the roof
where the woman waited for a message. At her feet lay a small covered basket, from which she
took a handful of grain. The dove Imams forgot their saintly manners in an unseemly scramble
as the white hand scattered the seeds, and while they disputed with one another, complaining
mournfully, another bird, flying straight to the roof from a distance, suddenly joined them.
It was white, with feet like tiny branches of coral, whereas the doves from the mosque were
grey, or burnished purple.

The woman had been pale, but when the bird fluttered down to rest on the open basket of grain,
colour rushed to her face, as if she had been struck on each cheek with a rose. None of the
doves of the mosque were tame enough to sit on the basket, which was close to her feet, though
they sidled round it wistfully; but the white bird let her stroke its back with her fingers
as it daintily pecked the yellow grains.

Very cautiously she untied a silk thread fastened to a feather under the bird's wing. As she
did so it fluttered both wings as if stretching them in relief, and a tiny folded paper attached
to the cord fell into the basket. Instantly the woman laid her hand over it. Then she looked
quickly, without moving her head, towards the square opening at a corner of the roof where
the stairway came up. No one was there. Nobody could see her from the roof of the mosque, and
her roof was higher than any of the others, except that which covered the private rooms of
the marabout. But the marabout was away, and no one ever came out on his roof when he was absent.

She opened the folded bit of white paper, which was little more than two inches square, and
was covered on one side with writing almost microscopically small. The other side was blank,
but the woman had no doubt that the letter was for her. As she read, the carrier-pigeon went
on pecking at the seeds in the basket, and the doves of the mosque watched it enviously.

The writing was in French, and no name was at the beginning or the end.

"Be brave, my beautiful one, and dare to do as your heart prompts. Remember, I worship you.
Ever since that wonderful day when the wind blew aside your veil for an instant at the door
of the Moorish bath, the whole world has been changed for me. I would die a thousand deaths
if need be for the joy of rescuing you from your prison. Yet I do not wish to die. I wish to
live, to take you far away and make you so happy that you will forget the wretchedness and
failure of the past. A new life will begin for both of us, if you will only trust me, and forget
the scruples of which you write--false scruples, believe me. As he had a wife living when he
married you, and has taken another since, surely you cannot consider that you are bound by
the law of God or man? Let me save you from the dragon, as fairy princesses were saved in days
of old. If I might speak with you, tell you all the arguments that constantly suggest themselves
to my mind, you could not refuse. I have thought of more than one way, but dare not put my
ideas on paper, lest some unlucky chance befall our little messenger. Soon I shall have perfected
the cypher. Then there will not be the same danger. Perhaps to-morrow night I shall be able
to send it. But meanwhile, for the sake of my love, give me a little hope. If you will try
to arrange a meeting, to be settled definitely when the cypher is ready, twist three of those
glorious threads of gold which you have for hair round the cord when you send the messenger back."

All the rosy colour had died away from the woman's face by the time she had finished reading
the letter. She folded it again into a tiny square even smaller than before, and put it into
one of the three or four little engraved silver boxes, made to hold texts from the Koran, which
hung from her long amber necklace. Her eyes were very wide open, but she seemed to see nothing
except some thought printed on her brain like a picture.

On the mosque roof a hundred men of the desert knelt praying in the sunset, their faces turned
towards Mecca. Down in the fountain-court, the marabout's lazy tame lion rose from sleep and
stretched himself, yawning as the clear voice of the muezzin chanted from the minaret the prayer
of evening, "Allah Akbar, Allah il Allah, Mohammed r'soul Allah."

The woman did not know that she heard the prayer, for as her eyes saw a picture, so did her
ears listen to a voice which she had heard only once, but desired beyond all things to hear
again. To her it was the voice of a saviour-knight; the face she saw was glorious with the
strength of manhood, and the light of love. Only to think of the voice and face made her feel
that she was coming to life again, after lying dead and forgotten in a tomb for many years
of silence.

Yes, she was alive now, for he had waked her from a sleep like death; but she was still in
the tomb, and it seemed impossible to escape from it, even with the help of a saviour-knight.
If she said "yes" to what he asked, as she was trying to make herself believe she had a moral
and legal right to do, they would be found out and killed, that was all.

She was not brave. The lassitude which is a kind of spurious resignation poisons courage, or
quenches it as water quenches fire. Although she hated her life, if it could be called life,
had no pleasure in it, and had almost forgotten how to hope, still she was afraid of being
violently struck down.

Not long ago a woman in the village had tried to leave her husband with a man she loved. The
husband found out, and having shot the man before her eyes, stabbed her with many wounds, one
for each traitorous kiss, according to the custom of the desert; not one knife-thrust deep
enough to kill; but by and by she had died from the shock of horror, and loss of blood. Nobody
blamed the husband. He had done the thing which was right and just. And stories like this came
often to the ears of the woman on the roof through her negresses, or from the attendants at
the Moorish bath.

