ENTERTAINMENTS FOR HOME, CHURCH AND SCHOOL

BY FREDERICA SEEGER

EDITED BY THEODORE WATERS

ENTERTAINMENTS FOR HOME, CHURCH AND SCHOOL

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I--HOUSEHOLD GAMES AND AMUSEMENTS Going Shopping, Hit or Miss, Game of Rhymes, Most
Improbable Story, Animated Art, Guessing Character, Tongue Twisters.

CHAPTER II--HOUSEHOLD GAMES AND AMUSEMENTS French Rhymes, Ant and Cricket, A Spoonful of Fun,
How, When and Where, Grandfather's Trunk, Predicaments, Auction, Beast, Bird or Fish, Rotating
Globe, etc.

CHAPTER III--HOUSEHOLD GAMES AND AMUSEMENTS Flags of All Nations, Game of Words, Prince of
India, Exchange, Shadow Buff, Old Family Coach, The Tailless Donkey.

CHAPTER IV--HOUSEHOLD GAMES AND AMUSEMENTS Magic Music, Cushion Dance, Animal Blind Man's Buff,
Musical Instruments, My Lady's Toilet, Going to Jerusalem.

CHAPTER V--HOUSEHOLD GAMES AND AMUSEMENTS Tortoise, Lemon Pig, Seasick Passengers, Enchanted
Raisins, Family Giant, Animated Telescope, etc.

CHAPTER VI--HOUSEHOLD GAMES AND AMUSEMENTS The What Do You Think, Knight of the Whistle, "Can
Do Little," Throwing Light.

CHAPTER VII--CHURCH AND SCHOOL SOCIALS Charades, "Cicero," "Attenuate," Suggested Words, "Metaphysician,"
Charades on the Grecian Islands.

CHAPTER VIII--CHURCH AND SCHOOL SOCIALS Living Pictures, Tableaux, Dignity and Impudence, Sailor's
Farewell, Home Again, Various Tableaux.

CHAPTER IX--CHURCH AND SCHOOL SOCIALS Wax Works Gallery, Mrs. Jarley's Collection, Chinese
Giant, Two-Headed Girl, Captain Kidd, Celebrated Dwarf, Yankee Cannibal, etc.

CHAPTER X--CHURCH AND SCHOOL SOCIALS Art Exhibitions, List of Exhibitors, "Artists," Curiosities,
Explanations, Suggestions.

CHAPTER XI--OPTICAL ILLUSIONS Raising the Ghost, Magic Lantern Pictures, Phantasmagoria, Chinese
Shadows, Wonderful Mirror, Multiplied Money.

CHAPTER XII--TABLE GAMES FOR ADULTS Dominoes, Backgammon, Checkers, Jenkins, Zoo, Stray Syllables,
Chess.

CHAPTER XIII--OUTDOOR GAMES FOR ADULTS Lawn Tennis, Polo, Hockey, Golf, Archery, Ring Toss,
Lawn Bowls.

CHAPTER XIV--HOLIDAY GAMES AND AMUSEMENTS New Years, Lincoln's Day, Valentine Party, Easter
Egg Party, Hallowe'en Games, Flag Day, Thanksgiving, Christmas.

CHAPTER XV--OUTDOOR GAMES FOR GIRLS Basket Ball, Box Ball, Guess Ball, Target Ball, String Ball.

CHAPTER XVI--PASTIMES FOR CHILDREN Sun Dial, Mother, May I Play? Blind Man's Buff, Tug of War,
Various Ball Games.

CHAPTER XVII--INDOOR GAMES FOR YOUNG CHILDREN Patch Work, Peanut Game, Soap Bubbles, Candy
Pulls, Cook and Peas, Magic Music, Zoology.

CHAPTER XVIII--OUTDOOR GAMES FOR YOUNG CHILDREN Bean Bag Games, Skipping the Rope, Various
Tag Games, Crossing the Brook.

CHAPTER XIX--SINGING GAMES FOR CHILDREN Moon and Stars, Bologna Man, Orchestra, Jack Be Nimble,
Oats, Peas, Beans, Farmer in the Dell, London Bridge, etc.

CHAPTER XX--GAMES OF ARITHMETIC Thought Numbers, Mystical Nine, Magic Hundred, King and Counselor,
Horse Shoe Nails, Dinner Party Puzzle, Baskets and Stones, etc.

CHAPTER XXI--ONE HUNDRED CONUNDRUMS Witty Questions, Facetious Puzzles, Ready Answers, Entertaining
Play Upon Words.

INTRODUCTION.

Games are meant to amuse, but in addition to amusing, a good game, played in the right spirit,
may have great educational value.

Now, this is distinctly a book of games and amusements.

There are games for indoors, scores of them, while there are other scores that can be enjoyed
only in the open.

When young folks, and older folks, too, for that matter, meet for a pleasant evening, it is
rather depressing to have them sit solemnly on stiff chairs in the company room and stare helplessly
at one another, like folks awaiting a funeral service.

Now, if there is present, and there usually is, a bright girl, who knows the games in this
book, and she starts in to "get the ball a-rolling," all will soon be enjoying themselves better
than if they were watching a three-ring circus. And then the volleys of wholesome laughter
that will roll out--why, they will be better for the digestion than all the medicines of all
the doctors.

It will be noticed that some of the outdoor games, and others devised for indoors, require
some apparatus, like tennis and croquet, or back-gammon boards and magic lanterns, but the
majority need only the company, and--let it be added--the disposition to have a good time.

Within the covers of "Entertainments for Home, Church, and School," you will find condensed
and clearly set forth the best of a library of books on amusements. The company is seated in
a circle, and one who understands the game commences by saying to his neighbor at the right:

"I have been shopping."

"What did you buy?" is the required response.

"A dress," "a book," "some flowers," "a pencil"--whatever the first speaker wishes,  provided
always that he can, in pronouncing the word, touch the object mentioned. Then the second player
addresses his neighbor in similar manner, and so on around the circle until the secret of the
game is discovered by all.

Whoever mentions an object without touching it, or names one that has already been given, pays
a forfeit.

LIGHTING THE CANDLE

This feat is a very amusing one, and is performed as follows: Two persons kneel on the ground,
facing each other. Each holds in his left hand a candle in a candlestick, at the same time
grasping his right foot in his right hand. This position compels him to balance himself on
his left knee. One of the candles is lighted; the other is not. The holders are required to
light the unlighted candle from the lighted one. The conditions are simple enough, but one
would hardly believe how often the performers will roll over on the floor before they succeed
in lighting the candle. It will be found desirable to spread a newspaper on the floor between
the combatants. Many spots of candle-grease will thus be intercepted, and the peace of mind
of the lady of the house proportionately spared.

HIT OR MISS

Great amusement is excited by this game when played in the presence of a company of guests.
Spread a sheet upon the floor and place two chairs upon it. Seat two of the party in the chairs
within reach of each other and blindfold them. Give each a saucer of cracker or bread crumbs
and a spoon, then request them to feed each other. The frantic efforts of each victim to reach
his fellow sufferer's mouth is truly absurd--the crumbs finding lodgment in the hair, ears
and neck much oftener than the mouth. Sometimes bibs are fastened around the necks of the victims
for protection.

CROSS QUESTIONS

The company is divided into two equal parts and blank cards and pencils are distributed. One
side writes questions on any subject desired, while the other prepares in like manner a set
of haphazard answers. The question cards are then collected and distributed to the players
on the other side, while their answer are divided among the questioners. The leader holding
a question then reads it aloud, the first player on the other side reading the answer he holds.
Some of the answers are highly amusing.

THE GAME OF RHYMES

A variation of the former game. The game is begun by a young lady or gentleman speaking a single
line, to which the next nearest on the left must respond with another line to rhyme with the
first. The next player gives a new line, of the same length, and the fourth supplies a rhyme
in turn, and so on. The game is provocative of any amount of fun and nonsense. A sample may
be given:

1st Player.--I think I see a brindle cow. 2d Player.--It's nothing but your dad's bow-wow.
3rd. Player.--He is chasing our black Tommy cat. 4th Player.--Poor puss had best get out of
that, etc.

Any amount of nonsense may be indulged in a game of this sort, within proper limits. Clever
players can easily give the game a most interesting turn and provoke rhymes that are original
and witty. Thus, a subject once started, every phase of it may be touched upon before the round
closes.

THE MOST IMPROBABLE STORY

The players are seated in a circle and are provided with pencils and paper. It is  then announced
that this is a competition, and that the one who writes the most improbable story in fifteen
minutes wins a prize. The allotted time being up, the papers are collected and re-distributed
so that each players receives another player's story. The stories are then read aloud and a
committee decides which is the most improbable story. A prize is usually given the writer of this.

ANIMATED ART

A picture is selected showing a group of individuals and portraying some historical incident
or event illustrative of the affairs of every-day life. The performers make up, each one to
represent some character in the picture. Out of their number some one is chosen to act as stage
manager and he poses the figures. Two rooms with folding-doors, or one room divided by a curtain,
are required for this representation. A reflection, or footlight, will enhance the beauty of
the picture.

GUESSING CHARACTERS

One of the party leaves the room, while the others decide upon some character, real or fictitious.
The absentee is then recalled, and each in turn asks him a question referring to the character
he has been elected to represent. When he guesses his identity, the player whose question has
thrown the most light upon the subject has to go from the room.

For example: A goes from the room, and the company decides that he shall represent King Henry
VIII. When he enters, No. 1 asks: "Which one of your wives did you love best?" No. 2 says:
"Do you approve of a man marrying his deceased brother's wife?" No. 3 adds: "Were you very
sorry your brother died?" etc., while A, after guessing various names, is led by some question
to guess correctly, and the fortunate questioner is consequently sent from the room to have
a new character assigned him in turn.

WHO IS MY NEIGHBOR?

One-half the company is blindfolded; these are then seated in such a way that each has a vacant
chair at his right hand. The other half of the players gather in the middle of the room. This
is done silently. The unblindfolded players will each one take one of the empty seats next
to those who are blindfolded. When requested to speak or sing they must do so. It is permissible
to disguise the voice. The blindfolded neighbor must guess who is speaking or singing. The
bandages are not taken off until the wearer has guessed correctly the name of the person at
his right. When he guesses correctly, the one whose name was guessed is blindfolded and takes
the guesser's place.

The leader gives a signal, and the players who are unblindfolded walk softly to a vacant chair.
The leader then plays a familiar air on an instrument, and says, "sing!" All must sing until
he suddenly stops playing. The guessing goes on as before until the leader decides to stop it.

TONGUE-TWISTERS--ANY NUMBER OF PLAYERS

The amusing game of tongue-twisters is played thus: The leader gives out a sentence (one of
the following), and each repeats it in turn, any player who gets tangled up in the pronunciation
having to pay forfeit.

A haddock! a haddock! a black-spotted haddock, a black spot on the black back of the black-spotted
haddock.

She sells sea shells.

She stood at the door of Mr. Smith's fish-sauce shop, welcoming him in.

The sea ceaseth and it sufficeth us.

Six thick thistle sticks.

The flesh of freshly fried flying fish.

A growing gleam glowing green. I saw Esau kissing Kate, the fact we all three saw, I saw Esau,
he saw me, and she saw I saw Esau.

You snuff ship snuff, I snuff box snuff.

The bleak breeze blighted the bright broom blossoms.

High roller, low roller, rower.

Oliver Oglethorp ogled an owl and oyster. Did Oliver Oglethorp ogle an owl and oyster? If Oliver
Oglethorp ogled an owl and oyster, where are the owl and oyster Oliver Oglethorp ogled?

Hobbs meets Snobbs and Nobbs; Hobbs bobs to Snobbs and Nobbs; Hobbs nobs with Snobbs and robs
Nobbs' fob. "That is," says Nobbs, "the worse for Hobbs' jobs," and Snobbs sobs.

Susan shines shoes and socks; socks and shoes shine Susan. She ceaseth shining shoes and socks,
for shoes and socks shocks Susan.

Robert Royley rolled a round roll round; a round roll Robert Rowley rolled round. Where rolled
the round roll Robert Rowley rolled round?

Strict, strong Stephen Stringer snared slickly six sickly, silky snakes. The Leith police dismisseth
us.

She sun shines upon shop signs. The leader then holds a button between his hands, with the
palms pressed together, so as to hide it. He goes around the circle, passing his hand between
those of the players. As he does this, he says: "Hold fast to what I give you." He is careful
not to let the players see into whose hands he passed the button. The circuit having been made,
the leader says to the first player: "Button, button, who has the button?" The one questioned
must answer, naming some one whom he thinks has it. So it continues until all have had a turn
at answering the same question. Then the leader says: "Button, button, rise!" The button holder
must do this.

FRENCH RHYMES

Each member of the company writes upon a slip of paper two words that rhyme. These are collected
by one player and read aloud, and as they are read everybody writes them down upon new papers.
Five or ten minutes being allowed, each player must write a poem introducing all the rhyming
words in their original pairs. At the expiration of the given time the lines are read aloud.
Suppose the words given are "man and than," "drops and copse," "went and intent," etc., these
are easily framed into something like this:

Once on a time a brooklet drops, With splash and clash, through a shady copse; One day there
chanced to pass a man, Who, deeming water better than Cider, down by the brooklet went, To
dip some up was his intent.

Of course, the result is nonsense, but it is pleasant nonsense, and may be kept up indefinitely,
to the entertainment of the participants.

CONSEQUENCES

The players are each provided with a slip of paper and a pencil. Each must write the name of
some gentleman (who is known to the party), turn down the end of the paper on which the name
is written, and pass the paper to the next neighbor. All must then write the name of some lady
(also known), then change the papers again and write "where they met," "what he said," "what
she said," "what the world said," and "the consequences," always passing the papers on. When
all are written, each player must then read his paper.

Mr. Jones . . . . . . . . . And Miss Smith . . . . . . . . . Met on a roof . . . . . . . .
. He said, "I trust you are not afraid." She said, "Not while you are here." World said, "It's
a match." Consequences, "He sailed for Africa next morning," etc.

ANT AND CRICKET

One of the company being appointed to represent the Cricket, seats himself in the midst of
the other players, who are the Ants, and writes upon a piece of paper the name of a certain
grain, whatever kind he pleases. He then addresses the first Ant: "My dear neighbor, I am very
hungry, and I have come to you for aid. What will you give me!" "A grain of rice, a kernel
of corn, a worm," etc., replies the Ant, as he sees fit. The Cricket asks each in turn, and
if one of them announces as his gift the word already written upon the paper, the Cricket declares
himself satisfied and changes places with the Ant.

A SPOONFUL OF FUN

This is a German game. One of the players goes into the middle of a ring formed by the other
players. He is blindfolded and has a large, wooden spoon for a wand. The players join hands
and dance about him. There may be music, if it be so desired. When the signal is given to stop,
all must stand still. The blindfolded one touches one of the players with his hand and tries
to guess his identity. If he guesses correctly, that player must take his place. Stooping,
kneeling, or tiptoeing may be resorted to, to conceal the identity of the players.

WHAT IS MY THOUGHT LIKE?

Though this is a very old game, it is well worth the playing. The leader asks each player in
turn, "What is my thought like?" The one questioned gives any answer he desires. Each player
is asked in turn and a list is kept of the replies. Finally the leader tells what his thought
was, and asks each player in what way it resembles the thing he, or she, likened it to.

BIOGRAPHY

Each player receives a pencil and paper and takes a seat as one of the circle of players. The
left-hand neighbor is the subject for his right-hand neighbor's biographical sketch. Any absurd
happening will do, the more ridiculous the biography, the better. The wittiest one calls for
a prize.

NICKNAMES OF CITIES

Certain cities have been nick-named, as Chicago, the Windy City; Philadelphia, the City of
Brotherly Love, etc. The hostess requests her guests to wear something suggestive of the nickname
of the city represented. Each guest writes on a piece of paper what cities he supposes the
other guests are representing. A half hour is allowed, when a prize is awarded the one who
has given the largest number of guesses correctly.

HOW, WHEN AND WHERE

One member of the company, leaving the room, a word admitting of more than one interpretation
is chosen by the others. On his return, he asks each in succession, "How do you like it?" The
player questioned being required to give an appropriate answer. He then inquires in similar
manner, "When do you like it," and if the answer to that question still gives him no clue,
proceeds to ask, "Where do you like it?"

When he at last discovers the word, the person whose answer has furnished him with the most
information, must in turn leave the room and become the questioner.

We will suppose the word chosen to be "rain," which can also be taken as "reign" or "rein."
The question, "How do you like it?" receives the answers, "tight," "heavy," "short," "warm," etc.

The question, "When do you like it?", "in summer," "when I am driving," "in the nineteenth
century," etc.

"Where do you like it?", "in the United States," "on a horse," "in the sky," etc.

MY GRANDFATHER'S TRUNK--ANY NUMBER OF PLAYERS

A great game for young folks of a winter evening. The company being seated in a circle, somebody
begins by saying, for instance:

No. 1. "I pack my grandfather's trunk with a pair of spectacles."

No. 2. "I pack my grandfather's trunk with a pair of spectacles and a silk hat." No. 3. "I
pack my grandfather's trunk with a pair of spectacles, a silk hat and a dime novel." And so
on, each person repeating all the articles already mentioned, besides adding a new one.

If any one fails to repeat the list correctly, he drops out of the game, which is continued
until the contents of the trunk are unanimously declared too numerous to remember.

LOCATION

Location is geographical in character. Two captains are chosen. They choose sides until the
party is equally divided. One captain begins the game by calling the name of a city. He then
counts thirty. Before he has finished counting, his opposite opponent must tell where the city
is located. If his answer be correct, he in turn names a place, and the second player in the
opposite row must locate it before he counts thirty. Should any player fail to answer before
thirty is counted, or answer incorrectly, he or she must drop out. When there is only one player
left on either side, that one gets the prize.

PREDICAMENTS

Predicaments are thought out. The more ridiculous they are the better. They  are written on
sheets of paper. Each person has to write his idea of the best way out of a predicament. Then
the papers are collected and read. Prizes are given if the hostess so desires.

PROGRESSIVE PUZZLES

Provide as many small, square cards as there are guests; also several pairs of scissors. The
party seats itself in a circle. The cards and scissors are given out. Then each player cuts
his card twice across, so as to make four pieces. The straight cuts must intersect each other.
After the first cut, the pieces must be held together until the second cut has been made.

A player mixes his pieces and passes them to his right-hand neighbor. When the leader gives
the signal, all the players put together the four pieces they have. The one who first succeeds
calls out "ready." Then all stop and pass the cards on again. The successful player is given
a mark on a tally card. The game goes on until a half hour has passed. The person receiving
the most marks is entitled to a prize, or may become the leader, as preferred.

MIRTH

The leader for this game must have a contagious laugh. He throws a handkerchief into the air;
when he does this, all must laugh heartily, until the handkerchief lies upon the ground, then
the laughing must stop immediately. The player laughing after the handkerchief touches the
ground is "out." This also happens to the one laughing too soon. The one left alone at last
is the winner, and may become leader.

CRAMBO

Each player in the party is given two slips of paper and a pencil. On one slip he writes a
question. This may be serious or absurd, as he wishes. On another paper he writes a word, this
being a noun--either proper or common. The questions being mixed are distributed--the words
likewise. The players write verses answering the questions and containing the words received.

AUCTION

Needed: Twenty, or more, packages, wrapped in paper.

Auction may be made a very merry game. It depends upon the auctioneer, however, to make the
sales interesting; any articles may be chosen, though dolls, Teddy bears, etc., are suggested.
The articles are catalogued. They are paid for with the beans given to the players with the
catalogues.

BEAST, BIRD OR FISH

The players sit round in a circle, and one player, who is "it," points to some one, and says
either "beast," "bird," or "fish." He then counts ten as quickly as possible. The person pointed
to must name some "beast," "bird," or "fish" (whichever he was asked), before ten is reached.
If he fails he must give a forfeit.

THE ROTATION OF THE GLOBE

When you next chance to eat an egg for breakfast, do not fail to try the following experiment.
It is one which always succeeds, and is productive of much amusement to the company.

Moisten slightly with water the rim of your plate, and in the center paint with the yolk of
the egg a sun with golden rays. By the aid of this simple apparatus, you will be in a position
to illustrate, so clearly that a child can comprehend it, the double movement of the earth,
which revolves simultaneously round the sun and on its own axis.

All that you have to do is to place the empty half-shell of your egg on the rim of the plate,
and keeping this latter duly sloped, by a slight movement of the wrist as may be needful, you
will see the eggshell begin to revolve rapidly on its own axis, at the same time traveling
round the plate. It is hardly necessary to remark that the egg-shell will not travel uphill,
and the plate must therefore be gradually shifted round, as well as sloped, so that the shell
may always have an inch or two of descending plane before it.

The slight cohesion caused by the water which moistens the plate counteracts the centrifugal
force and so prevents the eggshell falling off the edge of the plate.

ADVICE

Pencil and paper having been given the players, each writes a piece of advice and folds his
paper. He passes it to his neighbor, who before opening it, tells whether he thinks the advice
good or bad. If he guesses correctly, he scores a point. The game goes on this way, each at
the table taking a turn, when new advices are written and passed along. This is done as many
times as the hostess desires. The one getting the most points is winner.

WORDS

Each player receives a pencil and paper. He is then told to make as many words as he can from
a given word of fifteen letters, or more. It is surprising how many words can be thus made.
The winner is the one fashioning the greatest number of words. A book is given him as a prize.

CHAPTER III

GAME OF WORDS--PRINCE OF INDIA--EXCHANGE--SHADOW BUFF--TAILLESS DONKEY --THROWING THE HANDKERCHIEF

FLAGS OF ALL NATIONS

You can learn the colors of the flags of all nations by referring to a large dictionary, or
to a book on flags. The flags are drawn with colored crayons, or painted in water colors, on
a large water-color card, or a sheet of water-color paper. Large cards with numbers down the
sides are given to each player, with a pencil. The card of flags is then hung where all can
see it, and half an hour is allowed for all to guess the countries to which the flags belong.
The answers are written on the individual cards, and the papers are signed with the names of
the players.

A prize is given to the player who has the greatest number of correct answers.

ANOTHER GAME OF WORDS

The players, each of whom is supplied with paper and pencil, are divided equally into two sides,
and the leader, having selected a word, suppose "notwithstanding," each party sets to work
to see how many different words they can make of the same letters. (Thus from the word above
suggested may be made "not, with, stand, standing, gin, ton, to, wig, wit, his, twit, tan,
has, had, an, nod, tow, this, sat, that, sit, sin, tin, wink, what, who, wish, win, wan, won,"
and probably a host of others.) A scrutiny is then taken, all words common to both parties
being struck out. The remainder are then compared, and the victory is adjudged to the one having
the largest number of words.

GRAMMATICAL GAME

This is played by each person drawing, say, twenty letters haphazard, and trying to form them
into a phrase or sentence, the palm of merit being awarded to the player who, at the same time,
produces the most coherent phrase, and also succeeds in using the greatest proportion of the
letters assigned to him.

MENAGERIE

This is a very funny game if the ringmaster keeps up a running fire of witty remarks. He stands
in the circle of animals--otherwise guests--and, whip in hand, shows off his animals, and their
tricks, singly, and in groups. The lion roars, as well as performs; the dog barks, and performs
the tricks he is told to show off; the canary warbles its song; the bee buzzes; the donkey
brays, balks and kicks, etc. At the end of the performance there is a grand circus parade,
with music.

PRINCE OF INDIA

The players are numbered from one upward.

The leader stands in front of them and says: "The Prince of India has lost his pearl. Did you
find it, number seven?" Upon this, number 7 replies, jumping to his feet quickly:

"I, sir, I?"

The leader replies, "Yes, you, sir!"

Number 7 says: "Not I, sir!"

Leader: "Who then, sir, if not you?"

Number 7: "Number 4, sir."

Number 4 jumps up, and says: "What, sir? I, I?"

Leader: "Yes, sir; you, you."

Number 4: "Not I, not I, sir."'

Leader: "Who then, sir?"

Number 4: "Number 2, sir."'

Then number 2 jumps to his feet.

This goes on until the leader reaches the last one in the circle. If he can repeat again "The
Prince of India has lost his pearl," before this one can jump to his feet, they exchange places.

EXCHANGE

A blindfolded player stands in the center; the others are seated about him in a circle. Each
one is numbered.

HUNT THE RING

All the players stand in a circle holding a long cord, which forms an endless band upon which
a ring has been slipped before it was joined at the ends. This ring is passed rapidly from
one player to another--always on the cord and concealed by the hand--while somebody in the
center endeavors to seize the hands of the person who holds it, who, when actually caught,
takes his place within the circle.

If the circle is very large, two rings may be slipped upon the cord, and two players placed
in the center together.

A small key may be used instead of a ring, while still another variation is to have the concealed
object a small whistle with a ring attached. When this is adopted, an amusing phase of the
game is to secretly attach a string to the whistle and fasten this to the back of the player
in the center by means of a bent pin at the other end of the string. Then while feigning to
pass the whistle from hand to hand, it is occasionally seized and blown upon by some one in
the ring, toward whom the victim is at that moment turning his back, causing that individual
to be greatly puzzled.

SHADOW BLUFF

A sheet being stretched across one end of the room, one of the players being seated upon a
low stool facing it, and with his eyes fixed upon it. The only light in the room must be a
lamp placed upon a table in the center of the room. Between this lamp and the person on the
stool, the players pass in succession, their shadows being thrown upon the sheet in strong
relief. The victim of the moment endeavors to identify the other players by their respective
shadows, and if he succeeds the detected party must take his place.

It is allowable to make detection as difficult as possible by means of any available disguise
that does not conceal the whole person, any grimacing, contortion of form, etc.

GUESSING EYES AND NOSES

A sheet is fastened up between two doors. Holes are cut in it, and some of the party go behind
the sheet and stand with their eyes at the holes, while the others must guess to whom the eyes
belong. Failing to guess correctly, they must give a forfeit.

THE TAILLESS DONKEY

An amusing game, at which any size party may play and enjoy it for hours. Cut a large figure
of a donkey, minus a tail, from dark paper or cloth, and pin it upon a sheet stretched tightly
across a door-way. Each player is given a piece of paper, which would fit the donkey for a
tail, if applied. On each tail is written the name of the person holding it. When all is ready,
the players are blindfolded in turn--placed facing the donkey a few steps back in the room--then
turned around rapidly two or three times, and told to advance with the tail held at arm's length,
and with a pin previously inserted in the end, attach it to the figure of the donkey wherever
they first touch it. When the whole curtain is adorned with tails--(not to mention all the
furniture, family portraits, etc., in the vicinity)--and there are no more to pin on, the person
who has succeeded in fastening the appendage the nearest to its natural dwelling place, receives
a prize, and the player who has given the most eccentric position to the tail entrusted to
his care, receives the "booby" prize, generally some gift of a nature to cause a good-humored
laugh.

THROWING THE HANDKERCHIEF

A very old and still quite popular game. The company being seated around the room in a circle,
some one stationed in the center throws an unfolded handkerchief to one of the seated players.
Whoever receives it must instantly throw it to some one else, and so on, while the person in
the center endeavors to catch the handkerchief in its passage from one player to another. If
he catches it, as it touches somebody, that person must take his place in the center. If it
is caught in the air, the player whose hands it last left enters the circle.

The handkerchief must not be knotted or twisted, but thrown loosely.

CHAPTER IV

MAGIC MUSIC--CUSHION DANCE--ANIMAL BLINDMAN'S BLUFF--MY LADY'S TOILET --GOING TO JERUSALEM

MAGIC MUSIC

A beautiful game, which amuses even the mere spectator as much as it does the players. One
of the company sits at the piano while another leaves the room. The rest of the party then
hide some article, previously agreed upon, and recall the absent player. At his entrance the
pianist begins playing some lively air, very softly, keeping up a sort of musical commentary
upon his search, playing louder as he approaches the goal, and softer when he wanders away
from it. In this way he is guided to at last discover the object of his search.

CUSHION DANCE

The cushions are set upright in a circle on the floor. The players then join hands,  and form
a ring round them. The circle formed by the cushions should be almost as large as the ring
formed by the players, and the cushions may be placed at a considerable distance apart. The
players in the ring dance round; and each player, as he dances, tries to make his neighbors
knock over the cushions. He, however, avoids knocking over any himself. The players should
not break the ring, as the penalty to one letting go hands is expulsion from the ring. If it
is preferred, Indian clubs placed on end may be substituted for the cushions.

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS

The players sit in a circle and form an orchestra. The conductor stands in the center. A tune
is decided on, and the instruments are selected. Then the conductor beats time, and each player
imitates as well as he can the sound of his instrument, and the motion used in playing it.
Suddenly the conductor turns to one of the players and asks, "What is the matter with your
instrument?" and immediately counts ten. Before he finishes counting, the player who has been
questioned must begin an answer which is appropriate to his instrument. If his answer is inappropriate,
or if it is not begun before the counting stops, he must change places with the conductor.

Whenever the conductor claps his hands the music must stop, and the players must remain in
the attitudes in which they were when he gave the signal. Any one who fails to stop humming,
or who changes his position, must become leader.

The same conductor may continue throughout the game. The person who fails in any of the requirements
of the game then pays a forfeit. The blindfolded one points his cane in any direction. The
one directly opposite it must make a noise like an animal. From this the person in the center
of the ring guesses the other's identity. If he does so, there is an exchange of places.

MY LADY'S TOILET

This is a French game. In it each player is named for some article of "My  Lady's Toilet,"
such as her gown, her hat, her gloves, etc. The players sit in a circle, and when the leader
mentions an article of the toilet, the one who is named for it must rush to the center of the
ring before the platter stops spinning there. If successful, he or she takes the place of the
spinner in the center of the ring. If unsuccessful, the person returns to his or her place.

The leader may keep up the interest of the game by comments on the toilettes. This is most
interesting in story form.

A variation of this game introduces the word ball. Whenever this is spoken of, the players
must jump up and change places, the spinner trying to secure a seat in the general confusion.
The odd player becomes a spinner.

MARY AND JOHN

The players--all but two--form a circle and clasp hands. Two odd players in the center are
called, "Mary" and "John." The object of the game is for John to catch Mary. As he is blindfolded,
he can only locate her in her stealthy movements by the sound of her muffled voice. When he
says, "Mary, where are you?" she must answer as often as he questions her.

