Long afterwards Nelson loved to speak of the feelings of that moment; and from that time, he
often said, a radiant orb was suspended in his mind's eye, which urged him onward to renown.
The state of mind in which these feelings began, is what the mystics mean by their season of
darkness and desertion. If the animal spirits fail, they represent it as an actual temptation.
The enthusiasm of Nelson's nature had taken a different direction, but its essence was the
same. He knew to what the previous state of dejection was to be attributed; that an enfeebled
body, and a mind depressed, had cast this shade over his soul; but he always seemed willing
to believe that the sunshine which succeeded bore with it a prophetic glory, and that the light
which led him on was "light from heaven."

His interest, however, was far better than he imagined, During his absence, Captain Suckling
had been made Comptroller of the Navy; his health had materially improved upon the voyage;
and as soon as the DOLPHIN was paid off, he was appointed acting lieutenant in the WORCESTER,
sixty-four, Captain Mark Robinson, then going out with convoy to Gibraltar. Soon after his
return, on the 8th of April 1777, he passed his examination for a lieutenancy. Captain Suckling
sat at the head of the board; and when the examination had ended, in a manner highly honourable
to Nelson, rose from his seat, and introduced him to the examining captains as his nephew.
They expressed their wonder that he had not informed them of this relationship before; he replied
that he did not wish the younker to be favoured; he knew his nephew would pass a good examination,
and he had not been deceived. The next day Nelson received his commission as second lieutenant
of the LOWESTOFFE frigate, Captain William Locker, then fitting out for Jamaica.

American and French privateers, under American colours, were at that time harassing our trade
in the West Indies: even a frigate was not sufficiently active for Nelson, and he repeatedly
got appointed to the command of one of the LOWESTOFFE's tenders. During one of their cruises
the LOWESTOFFE captured an American letter-of-marque: it was blowing a gale, and a heavy sea
running. The first lieutenant being ordered to board the prize, went below to put on his hanger.
It happened to be mislaid; and while he was seeking it, Captain Locker came on deck. Perceiving
the boat still alongside, and in danger every moment of being swamped, and being extremely
anxious that the privateer should be instantly taken in charge, because he feared that It would
otherwise founder, he exclaimed, "Have I no officer in the ship who can board the prize?" Nelson
did not offer himself immediately, waiting, with his usual sense of propriety, for the first
lieutenant's return; but hearing the master volunteer, he jumped into the boat, saying, "It
is my turn now; and if I come back, it is yours." The American, who had carried a heavy press
of sail in hope of escaping, was so completely water-logged that the LOWESTOFFE's boat went
in on deck and out again with the sea.

About this time he lost his uncle. Captain Locker, however, who had perceived the excellent
qualities of Nelson, and formed a friendship for him which continued during his life, recommended
him warmly to Sir Peter Parker, then commander-in-chief upon that station. In consequence of
this recommendation he was removed into the BRISTOL flag-ship, and Lieutenant Cuthbert Collingwood
succeeded him in the LOWESTOFFE. Sir Peter Parker was the friend of both, and thus it happened
that whenever Nelson got a step in rank, Collingwood succeeded him. The former soon became
first lieutenant, and on the 8th of December 1778 was appointed commander of the BADGER brig;
Collingwood taking his place in the BRISTOL. While the BADGER was lying in Montego Bay, Jamaica,
the GLASGOW of twenty guns came in and anchored there, and in two hours was in flames, the
steward having set fire to her while stealing rum out of the after-hold. Her crew were leaping
into the water, when Nelson came up in his boats, made them throw their powder overboard and
point their guns upward; and by his presence of mind and personal exertions prevented the loss
of life which would otherwise have ensued. On the 11th of June 1779 he was made post into the
HINCHINBROOK, of twenty-eight guns, an enemy's merchantman, sheathed with wood, which had been
taken into the service. Collingwood was then made commander into the BADGER. A short time after
he left the LOWESTOFFE, that ship, with a small squadron, stormed the fort of St. Fernando
de Omoa, on the south side of the Bay of Honduras, and captured some register ships which were
lying under its guns. Two hundred and fifty quintals of quicksilver and three millions of piastres
were the reward of this enterprise; and it is characteristic of Nelson that the chance by which
he missed a share in such a prize is never mentioned in any of his letters; nor is it likely
that it ever excited even a momentary feeling of vexation.

Nelson was fortunate in possessing good interest at the time when it could be most serviceable
to him: his promotion had been almost as rapid as it could be; and before he had attained the
age of twenty-one he had gained that rank which brought all the honours of the service within
his reach. No opportunity, indeed, had yet been given him of distinguishing himself; but he
was thoroughly master of his profession, and his zeal and ability were acknowledged wherever
he was known. Count d'Estaing, with a fleet of one hundred and twenty-five sail, men of war
and transports, and a reputed force of five-and twenty thousand men, threatened Jamaica from
St. Domingo. Nelson offered his services to the Admiral and to Governor-General Dalling, and
was appointed to command the batteries of Fort Charles, at Port Royal. Not more than seven
thousand men could be mustered for the defence of the island,--a number wholly inadequate to
resist the force which threatened them. Of this Nelson was so well aware, that when he wrote
to his friends in England, he told them they must not be surprised to hear of his learning
to speak French. D'Estaing, however, was either not aware of his own superiority, or not equal
to the command with which he was intrusted: he attempted nothing with his formidable armament;
and General Dalling was thus left to execute a project which he had formed against the Spanish
colonies.

This project was, to take Fort San Juan on the river of that name, which flows from Lake Nicaragua
into the Atlantic; make himself master of the lake itself, and of the cities of Granada and
Leon; and thus cut off the communication of the Spaniards between their northern and southern
possessions in America. Here it is that a canal between the two seas may most easily be formed--a
work more important in its consequences than any which has ever yet been effected by human
power. Lord George Germaine, at that time secretary of state for the American Department, approved
the plan; and as discontents at that time were known to prevail in the Nuevo Reyno, in Popayan,
and in Peru, the more sanguine part of the English began to dream of acquiring an empire in
one part of America, more extensive than that which they were on the point of losing in another.
General Dalling's plans were well formed; but the history and the nature of the country had
not been studied as accurately as its geography: the difficulties which occurred in fitting
out the expedition delayed it till the season was too far advanced; and the men were thus sent
to adventure themselves, not so much against an enemy, whom they would have beaten, as against
a climate which would do the enemy's work.

Early in the year 1780, five hundred men destined for this service were convoyed by Nelson
from Port Royal to Cape Gracias a Dios, in Honduras. Not a native was to be seen when they
landed: they had been taught that the English came with no other intent than that of enslaving
them, and sending them to Jamaica. After a while, however, one of them ventured down, confiding
in his knowledge of one of the party; and by his means the neighbouring tribes were conciliated
with presents, and brought in. The troops were encamped on a swampy and unwholesome plain,
where they were joined by a party of the 79th regiment from Black River, who were already in
a deplorable state of sickness. Having remained here a month, they proceeded, anchoring frequently,
along the Mosquito shore, to collect their Indian allies, who were to furnish proper boats
for the river, and to accompany them. They reached the river San Juan, March 24th; and here,
according to his orders, Nelson's services were to terminate; but not a man in the expedition
had ever been up the river, or knew the distance of any fortification from its mouth; and he
not being one who would turn back when so much was to be done, resolved to carry the soldiers
up. About two hundred, therefore, were embarked in the Mosquito shore craft and in two of the
HINCHINBROOK's boats, and they began their voyage. It was the latter end of the dry season,
the worst time for such an expedition; the river was consequently low. Indians were sent forward
through narrow channels between shoals and sandbanks, and the men were frequently obliged to
quit the boats and exert their utmost strength to drag or thrust them along. This labour continued
for several days; when they came into deeper water, they had then currents and rapids to contend
with, which would have been insurmountable but for the skill of the Indians in such difficulties.
The brunt of the labour was borne by them and by the sailors--men never accustomed to stand
aloof when any exertion of strength or hardihood is required. The soldiers, less accustomed
to rely upon themselves, were of little use. But all equally endured the violent heat of the
sun, rendered more intense by being reflected from the white shoals; while the high woods,
on both sides of the river, were frequently so close as to prevent any refreshing circulation
of air; and during the night all were equally exposed to the heavy and unwholesome dews.

On the 9th of April they reached an island in the river, called San Bartolomeo, which the Spaniards
had fortified, as an outpost, with a small semicircular battery, mounting nine or ten swivels,
and manned with sixteen or eighteen men. It commanded the river in a rapid and difficult part
of the navigation. Nelson, at the head of a few of his seamen, leaped upon the beach. The ground
upon which he sprung was so muddy that he had some difficulty in extricating himself, and lost
his shoes: bare-footed, however, he advanced, and, in his own phrase, BOARDED THE BATTERY.
In this resolute attempt he was bravely supported by Despard, at that time a captain in the
army, afterward unhappily executed for his schemes of revolutionary treason. The castle of
San Tuan is situated about 16 miles higher up; the stores and ammunition, however, were landed
a few miles below the castle, and the men had to march through woods almost impassable. One
of the men was bitten under the eye by a snake which darted upon him from the bough of a tree.
He was unable to proceed from the violence of the pain; and when, after a short while, some
of his comrades were sent back to assist him, he was dead, and the body already putrid. Nelson
himself narrowly escaped a similar fate. He had ordered his hammock to be slung under some
trees, being excessively fatigued, and was sleeping, when a monitory lizard passed across his
face. The Indians happily observed the reptile; and knowing what it indicated, awoke him. He
started up, and found one of the deadliest serpents of the country coiled up at his feet. He
suffered from poison of another kind; for drinking at a spring in which some boughs of the
manchineel had been thrown, the effects were so severe as, in the opinion of some of his friends,
to inflict a lasting injury upon his constitution.

The castle of San Juan is 32 miles below the point where the river issues from the Lake of
Nicaragua, and 69 from its mouth. Boats reach the sea from thence in a day and a-half; but
their navigation back, even when unladen, is the labour of nine days. The English appeared
before it on the 11th, two days after they had taken San Bartolomeo. Nelson's advice was, that
it should instantly be carried by assault; but Nelson was not the commander; and it was thought
proper to observe all the formalities of a siege. Ten days were wasted before this could be
commenced. It was a work more of fatigue than of danger; but fatigue was more to be dreaded
than the enemy; the rains set in; and could the garrison have held out a little longer, diseases
would have rid them of their invaders. Even the Indians sunk under it, the victims of unusual
exertion, and of their own excesses. The place surrendered on the 24th. But victory procured
to the conquerors none of that relief which had been expected; the castle was worse than a
prison; and it contained nothing which could contribute to the recovery of the sick, or the
preservation of those who were yet unaffected. The huts which served for hospitals were surrounded
with filth, and with the putrefying hides of slaughtered cattle--almost sufficient of themselves
to have engendered pestilence; and when at last orders were given to erect a convenient hospital,
the contagion had become so general that there were none who could work at it; for besides
the few who were able to perform garrison duty, there were not orderly men enough to assist
the sick. Added to these evils, there was the want of all needful remedies; for though the
expedition had been amply provided with hospital stores, river craft enough had not been procured
for transporting the requisite baggage; and when much was to be left behind, provision for
sickness was that which of all things men in health would be most ready to leave. Now, when
these medicines were required, the river was swollen, and so turbulent that its upward navigation
was almost impracticable. At length even the task of burying the dead was more than the living
could perform, and the bodies were tossed into the stream, or left for beasts of prey, and
for the gallinazos--those dreadful carrion birds, which do not always wait for death before
they begin their work. Five months the English persisted in what may be called this war against
nature; they then left a few men, who seemed proof against the climate, to retain the castle
till the Spaniards should choose to retake it and make them prisoners. The rest abandoned their
baleful conquest. Eighteen hundred men were sent to different posts upon this wretched expedition:
not more than three hundred and eighty ever returned. The HINCHINBROOK's complement consisted
of two hundred men; eighty-seven took to their beds in one night, and of the whole crew not
more than ten survived.

The transports' men all died, and some of the ships, having none left to take care of them,
sunk in the harbour: but transport ships were not wanted, for the troops which they had brought
were no more: they had fallen, not by the hand of an enemy, but by the deadly influence of
the climate.

Nelson himself was saved by a timely removal. In a few days after the commencement of the siege
he was seized with the prevailing dysentery; meantime Captain Glover (son of the author of
LEONIDAS) died, and Nelson was appointed to succeed him in the Janus, of forty-four guns; Collingwood
being then made post into the HINCHINBROOK. He returned to the harbour the day before San Juan
surrendered, and immediately sailed for Jamaica in the sloop which brought the news of his
appointment. He was, however, so greatly reduced by the disorder, that when they reached Port
Royal he was carried ashore in his cot; and finding himself, after a partial amendment, unable
to retain the command of his new ship, he was compelled to ask leave to return to England,
as the only means of recovery. Captain (afterwards Admiral) Cornwallis took him home in the
LION; and to his fare and kindness Nelson believed himself indebted for his life. He went immediately
to Bath, in a miserable state; so helpless that he was carried to and from his bed; and the
act of moving him produced the most violent pain. In three months he recovered, and immediately
hastened to London, and applied for employment. After an interval of about four months he was
appointed to the ALBEMARLE, of twenty-eight guns, a French merchantman which had been purchased
from the captors for the king's service.

His health was not yet thoroughly re-established; and while he was employed in getting his
ship ready, he again became so ill as hardly to be able to keep out of bed. Yet in this state,
still suffering from the fatal effect of a West Indian climate, as if it might almost be supposed,
he said, to try his constitution, he was sent to the North Seas, and kept there the whole winter.
The asperity with which he mentioned this so many years afterwards evinces how deeply he resented
a mode of conduct equally cruel to the individual and detrimental to the service. It was during
the armed neutrality; and when they anchored off Elsinore, the Danish Admiral sent on board,
desiring to be informed what ships had arrived, and to have their force written down. "The
ALBEMARLE," said Nelson to the messenger, "is one of his Britannic Majesty's ships: you are
at liberty, sir, to count the guns as you go down the side; and you may assure the Danish Admiral
that, if necessary, they shall all be well served." During this voyage he gained a considerable
knowledge of the Danish coast and its soundings, greatly to the advantage of his country in
after-times. The ALBEMARLE was not a good ship, and was several times nearly overset in consequence
of the masts having been made much too long for her. On her return to England they were shortened,
and some other improvements made at Nelson's suggestion. Still he always insisted that her
first owners, the French, had taught her to run away, as she was never a good sailer except
when going directly before the wind.

On their return to the Downs, while he was ashore visiting the senior officer, there came on
so heavy a gale that almost all the vessels drove, and a store-ship came athwart-hawse of the
ALBEMARLE. Nelson feared she would drive on the Goodwin Sands; he ran to the beach; but even
the Deal boatmen thought it impossible to get on board, such was the violence of the storm.
At length some of the most intrepid offered to make the attempt for fifteen guineas; and to
the astonishment and fear of all the beholders, he embarked during the height of the tempest.
With great difficulty and imminent danger he succeeded in reaching her. She lost her bowsprit
and foremast, but escaped further injury. He was now ordered to Quebec, where his surgeon told
him he would certainly be laid up by the climate. Many of his friends urged him to represent
this to Admiral Keppel; but having received his orders from Lord Sandwich, there appeared to
him an indelicacy in applying to his successor to have them altered.

