In wonted walks, since wonted fancies change, Some cause there is, which of strange cause doth
rise: For in each thing whereto mine eye doth range, Part of my pain, me-seems, engraved lies.
The rocks, which were of constant mind the mark, In climbing steep, now hard refusal show;
The shading woods seem now my sun to dark, And stately hills disdain to look so low. The restful
caves now restless visions give; In dales I see each way a hard ascent: Like late-mown meads,
late cut from joy I live; Alas, sweet brooks do in my tears augment: Rocks, woods, hills, caves,
dales, meads, brooks, answer me; Infected minds infect each thing they see. If I could think
how these my thoughts to leave, Or thinking still, my thoughts might have good end; If rebel
sense would reason's law receive; Or reason foiled, would not in vain contend: Then might I
think what thoughts were best to think: Then might I wisely swim, or gladly sink.

If either you would change your cruel heart, Or, cruel still, time did your beauties stain:
If from my soul this love would once depart, Or for my love some love I might obtain; Then
might I hope a change, or ease of mind, By your good help, or in myself, to find.

But since my thoughts in thinking still are spent. With reason's strife, by senses overthrown;
You fairer still, and still more cruel bent, I loving still a love that loveth none: I yield
and strive, I kiss and curse the pain, Thought, reason, sense, time, You, and I, maintain.

POEM:  A FAREWELL

Oft have I mused, but now at length I find Why those that die, men say, they do depart: Depart:
a word so gentle to my mind, Weakly did seem to paint Death's ugly dart.

But now the stars, with their strange course, do bind Me one to leave, with whom I leave my
heart; I hear a cry of spirits faint and blind, That parting thus, my chiefest part I part.

Part of my life, the loathed part to me, Lives to impart my weary clay some breath; But that
good part wherein all comforts be, Now dead, doth show departure is a death:

Yea, worse than death, death parts both woe and joy, From joy I part, still living in annoy.

* * *

Finding those beams, which I must ever love, To mar my mind, and with my hurt to please, I
deemed it best, some absence for to prove, If farther place might further me to ease.

My eyes thence drawn, where lived all their light, Blinded forthwith in dark despair did lie,
Like to the mole, with want of guiding sight, Deep plunged in earth, deprived of the sky.

In absence blind, and wearied with that woe, To greater woes, by presence, I return; Even as
the fly, which to the flame doth go, Pleased with the light, that his small corse doth burn:

Fair choice I have, either to live or die A blinded mole, or else a burned fly.

POEM:  THE SEVEN WONDERS OF ENGLAND

I.

Near Wilton sweet, huge heaps of stones are found, But so confused, that neither any eye Can
count them just, nor Reason reason try, What force brought them to so unlikely ground.

To stranger weights my mind's waste soil is bound, Of passion-hills, reaching to Reason's sky,
From Fancy's earth, passing all number's bound, Passing all guess, whence into me should fly
So mazed a mass; or, if in me it grows, A simple soul should breed so mixed woes.

II.

The Bruertons have a lake, which, when the sun Approaching warms, not else, dead logs up sends
From hideous depth; which tribute, when it ends, Sore sign it is the lord's last thread is spun.

My lake is Sense, whose still streams never run But when my sun her shining twins there bends;
Then from his depth with force in her begun, Long drowned hopes to watery eyes it lends; But
when that fails my dead hopes up to take, Their master is fair warned his will to make.

III.

We have a fish, by strangers much admired, Which caught, to cruel search yields his chief part:
With gall cut out, closed up again by art, Yet lives until his life be new required.

A stranger fish myself, not yet expired, Tho', rapt with Beauty's hook, I did impart Myself
unto th' anatomy desired, Instead of gall, leaving to her my heart: Yet live with thoughts
closed up, 'till that she will, By conquest's right, instead of searching, kill.

IV.

Peak hath a cave, whose narrow entries find Large rooms within where drops distil amain: Till
knit with cold, though there unknown remain, Deck that poor place with alabaster lined.

Mine eyes the strait, the roomy cave, my mind; Whose cloudy thoughts let fall an inward rain
Of sorrow's drops, till colder reason bind Their running fall into a constant vein Of truth,
far more than alabaster pure, Which, though despised, yet still doth truth endure.

V.

A field there is, where, if a stake oe prest Deep in the earth, what hath in earth receipt,
Is changed to stone in hardness, cold, and weight, The wood above doth soon consuming rest.

The earth her ears; the stake is my request; Of which, how much may pierce to that sweet seat,
To honour turned, doth dwell in honour's nest, Keeping that form, though void of wonted heat;
But all the rest, which fear durst not apply, Failing themselves, with withered conscience die.

VI.

Of ships by shipwreck cast on Albion's coast, Which rotting on the rocks, their death to die:
From wooden bones and blood of pitch doth fly A bird, which gets more life than ship had lost.

My ship, Desire, with wind of Lust long tost, Brake on fair cliffs of constant Chastity; Where
plagued for rash attempt, gives up his ghost; So deep in seas of virtue, beauties lie: But
of this death flies up the purest love, Which seeming less, yet nobler life doth move.

VII.

These wonders England breeds; the last remains - A lady, in despite of Nature, chaste, On whom
all love, in whom no love is placed, Where Fairness yields to Wisdom's shortest reins.

A humble pride, a scorn that favour stains; A woman's mould, but like an angel graced; An angel's
mind, but in a woman cased; A heaven on earth, or earth that heaven contains: Now thus this
wonder to myself I frame; She is the cause that all the rest I am.

* * *

Thou blind man's mark; thou fool's self-chosen snare, Fond fancy's scum, and dregs of scattered
thought: Band of all evils; cradle of causeless care; Thou web of will, whose end is never wrought:

Desire! Desire!  I have too dearly bought, With price of mangled mind, thy worthless ware;
Too long, too long, asleep thou hast me brought Who shouldst my mind to higher things prepare;

But yet in vain thou hast my ruin sought; In vain thou mad'st me to vain things aspire; In
vain thou kindlest all thy smoky fire: For Virtue hath this better lesson taught, Within myself
to seek my only hire, Desiring nought but how to kill Desire.

POEM:  FROM EARTH TO HEAVEN

Leave me, O love! which reachest but to dust; And thou, my mind, aspire to higher things: Grow
rich in that which never taketh rust; Whatever fades, but fading pleasure brings.

Draw in thy beams, and humble all thy might To that sweet yoke where lasting freedoms be, Which
breaks the clouds, and opens forth the light That doth both shine, and give us sight to see.

O take fast hold! let that light be thy guide, In this small course which birth draws out to
death, And think how evil becometh him to slide, Who seeketh heaven, and comes from heavenly
breath. Then farewell, world, thy uttermost I see, Eternal Love, maintain thy life in me.

SPLENDIDIS LONGUM VALEDICO NUGIS

Footnote:

{1}  Edward Wotton, elder brother of Sir Henry Wotton.  He was knighted by Elizabeth in 1592,
and made Comptroller of her Household.  Observe the playfulness in Sidney's opening and close
of a treatise written throughout in plain, manly English without Euphuism, and strictly reasoned.

{2}  Here the introduction ends, and the argument begins with its Part 1.  Poetry the first
Light-giver.

{3}  A fable from the "Hetamythium" of Laurentius Abstemius, Professor of Belles Lettres at
Urbino, and Librarian to Duke Guido Ubaldo under the Pontificate of Alexander VI. (1492-1503).

{4}  Pliny says ("Nat. Hist.," lib. xi., cap. 62) that the young vipers, impatient to be born,
break through the side of their mother, and so kill her.

{5}  Part 2.  Borrowed from by Philosophers.

{6}  Timaeus, the Pythagorean philosopher of Locri, and the Athenian Critias are represented
by Plato as having listened to the discourse of Socrates on a Republic.  Socrates calls on
them to show such a state in action.  Critias will tell of the rescue of Europe by the ancient
citizens of Attica, 10,000 years before, from an inroad of countless invaders who came from
the vast island of Atlantis, in the Western Ocean; a struggle of which record was preserved
in the temple of Naith or Athene at Sais, in Egypt, and handed down, through Solon, by family
tradition to Critias.  But first Timaeus agrees to expound the structure of the universe; then
Critias, in a piece left unfinished by Plato, proceeds to show an ideal society in action against
pressure of a danger that seems irresistible.

{7}  Plato's "Republic," book ii.

{8}  Part 3.  Borrowed from by Historians.

{9}  Part 4.  Honoured by the Romans as Sacred and Prophetic.

{10}  Part 5.  And really sacred and prophetic in the Psalms of David.

{11}  Part 6.  By the Greeks, Poets were honoured with the name of Makers.

{12}  Poetry is the one creative art.  Astronomers and others repeat what they find.

{13}  Poets improve Nature.

{14}  And idealize man.

{15}  Here a Second Part of the Essay begins.

{16}  Part 1.  Poetry defined.

{17}  Part 2.  Its kinds.  a. Divine.

{18} Philosophical, which is perhaps too imitative.

{19} Marcus Manilius wrote under Tiberius a metrical treatise on Astronomy, of which five books
on the fixed stars remain.

{20}  Poetry proper.

{21}  Part 3.  Subdivisions of Poetry proper.

{22}  Its essence is in the thought, not in apparelling of verse.

{23}  Heliodorus was Bishop of Tricca, in Thessaly, and lived in the fourth century.  His story
of Theagenes and Chariclea, called the "AEthiopica," was a romantic tale in Greek which was,
in Elizabeth's reign, translated into English.

{24}  The Poet's Work and Parts.  Part 1. WORK:  What Poetry does for us. (Shakespeare, "Merchant
of Venice," act v., sc. 1)

{26}  Poetry best advances the end of all earthly learning, virtuous action.

{27}  Its advantage herein over Moral Philosophy.

{28}  It's advantage herein over History.

{29}  "All men make faults, and even I in this, Authorising thy trespass with compare." Shakespeare,
"Sonnet" 35.

{30}  "Witness of the times, light of truth, life of memory, mistress of life, messenger of
antiquity."--Cicero, "De Oratore."

{31}  In what manner the Poet goes beyond Philosopher, Historian, and all others (bating comparison
with the Divine).

{32}  He is beyond the Philosopher.

{33}  Horace's "Ars Poetica," lines 372-3.  But Horace wrote "Non homines, non Di"--"Neither
men, gods, nor lettered columns have admitted mediocrity in poets."

{34}  The moral common-places.  Common Place, "Locus communis," was a term used in old rhetoric
to represent testimonies or pithy sentences of good authors which might be used for strengthening
or adorning a discourse; but said Keckermann, whose Rhetoric was a text-book in the days of
James I. and Charles I., "Because it is impossible thus to read through all authors, there
are books that give students of eloquence what they need in the succinct form of books of Common
Places, like that collected by Stobaeus out of Cicero, Seneca, Terence, Aristotle; but especially
the book entitled 'Polyanthea,' provides short and effective sentences apt to any matter."
Frequent resort to the Polyanthea caused many a good quotation to be hackneyed; the term of
rhetoric, "a common-place," came then to mean a good saying made familiar by incessant quoting,
and then in common speech, any trite saying good or bad, but commonly without wit in it.

{35}  Thus far Aristotle.  The whole passage in the "Poetics" runs: "It is not by writing in
verse or prose that the Historian and Poet are distinguished.  The work of Herodotus might
be versified; but it would still be a species of History, no less with metre than without.
They are distinguished by this, that the one relates what has been, the other what might be.
On this account Poetry is more philosophical, and a more excellent thing than History, for
Poetry is chiefly conversant about general truth; History about particular. In what manner,
for example, any person of a certain character would speak or act, probably or necessarily,
this is general; and this is the object of Poetry, even while it makes use of particular names.
But what Alcibiades did, or what happened to him, this is particular truth."

{36}  Justinus, who lived in the second century, made an epitome of the history of the Assyrian,
Persian, Grecian, Macedonian, and Roman Empires, from Trogus Pompeius, who lived in the time
of Augustus.

{37}  Dares Phrygius was supposed to have been a priest of Vulcan, who was in Troy during the
siege, and the Phrygian Iliad ascribed to him as early as the time of AElian, A.D. 230, was
supposed, therefore, to be older than Homer's.

{38}  Quintus Curtius, a Roman historian of uncertain date, who wrote the history of Alexander
the Great in ten books, of which two are lost and others defective.

{39}  Not knowledge but practice.

{40}  The Poet Monarch of all Human Sciences.

{42}  Virgil's "AEneid," Book xii.:-

"And shall this ground fainthearted dastard Turnus flying view? Is it so vile a thing to die?"
(Phaer's Translation [1573].)

{43}  Instances of the power of the Poet's work.

{44}  Defectuous.  This word, from the French "defectueux," is used twice in the "Apologie
for Poetrie."

{45}  Part II.  The PARTS of Poetry.

{46}  Can Pastoral be condemned?

{47}  The close of Virgil's seventh Eclogue--Thyrsis was vanquished, and Corydon crowned with
lasting glory.

{48}  Or Elegiac?

{49}  Or Iambic? or Satiric?

{50}  From the first Satire of Persius, line 116, in a description of Homer's satire:

"Omne vafer vitium ridenti Flaccus amico Tangit, et admissus circum praecordia ludit," &c.

Shrewd Flaccus touches each vice in his laughing friend.  Dryden thus translated the whole
passage:-

"Unlike in method, with concealed design Did crafty Horace his low numbers join; And, with
a sly insinuating grace Laughed at his friend, and looked him in the face: Would raise a blush
where secret vice he found; And tickle, while he gently probed the wound; With seeming innocence
the crowd beguiled, But made the desperate passes while he smiled."

{51}  From the end of the eleventh of Horace's epistles (Lib. 1):

"Coelum non animum mutant, qui trans mare currunt, Strenua nos exercet inertia; navibus atque
Quadrigis petimus bene vivere.  Quod petis, hic est, Est Ulubris, animus si te non deficit aequus."

They change their skies but not their mind who run across the seas; We toil in laboured idleness,
and seek to live at ease With force of ships and four horse teams.  That which you seek is
here, At Ulubrae, unless your mind fail to be calm and clear.

