The details of the working were gradually perfected by experience, the projectors of the line
being scarcely conscious at first of the importance and significance of the work which they
had taken in hand, and little thinking that they were laying the foundations of a system which
was yet to revolutionise the internal communications of the world, and confer the greatest
blessings on mankind.  It is important to note that the commercial results of the enterprise
were considered satisfactory from the opening of the railway.  Besides conferring a great public
benefit upon the inhabitants of the district and throwing open entirely new markets for coal,
the profits derived from the traffic created by the railway yielded increasing dividends to
those who had risked their capital in the undertaking, and thus held forth an encouragement
to the projectors of railways generally, which was not without an important effect in stimulating
the projection of similar enterprises in other districts.  These results, as displayed in the
annual dividends, must have been eminently encouraging to the astute commercial men of Liverpool
and Manchester, who were then engaged in the prosecution of their railway.  Indeed, the commercial
success of the Stockton and Darlington Company may be justly characterised as the turning-point
of the railway system.

Before leaving this subject, we cannot avoid alluding to one of its most remarkable and direct
results—the creation of the town of Middlesborough-on-Tees.  When the railway was opened in
1825, the site of this future metropolis of Cleveland was occupied by one solitary farmhouse
and its outbuildings.  All round was pasture-land or mud-banks; scarcely another house was
within sight.  In 1829 some of the principal proprietors of the railway joined in the purchase
of about 500 or 600 acres of land five miles below Stockton—the site of the modern Middlesborough—for
the purpose of there forming a new seaport for the shipment of coals brought to the Tees by
the railway.  The line was accordingly extended thither; docks were excavated; a town sprang
up; churches, chapels, and schools were built, with a custom-house, mechanics’ institute, banks,
shipbuilding yards, and iron-factories.  In ten years a busy population of some 6000 persons
(since increased to about 23,000) occupied the site of the original farmhouse. {144}  More
recently, the discovery of vast stores of ironstone in the Cleveland Hills, closely adjoining
Middlesborough, has tended still more rapidly to augment the population and increase the commercial
importance of the place.

It is pleasing to relate, in connexion with this great work—the Stockton and Darlington Railway,
projected by Edward Pease and executed by George Stephenson—that when Mr. Stephenson became
a prosperous and a celebrated man, he did not forget the friend who had taken him by the hand,
and helped him on in his early days.  He continued to remember Mr. Pease with gratitude and
affection, and that gentleman, to the close of his life, was proud to exhibit a handsome gold
watch, received as a gift from his celebrated protégé, bearing these words;—“Esteem and gratitude:
from George Stephenson to Edward Pease.”

                    [Picture: Middlesborough-on-Tees]

CHAPTER IX. THE LIVERPOOL AND MANCHESTER RAILWAY PROJECTED.

The rapid growth of the trade and manufactures of South Lancashire gave rise, about the year
1821, to the project of a tramroad for the conveyance of goods between Liverpool and Manchester.
Since the construction of the Bridgewater Canal by Brindley, some fifty years before, the increase
in the business transacted between the two towns had become quite marvellous.  The steam-engine,
the spinning-jenny, and the canal, working together, had accumulated in one focus a vast aggregate
of population, manufactures, and trade.

Such was the expansion of business caused by the inventions to which we have referred, that
the navigation was found altogether inadequate to accommodate the traffic, which completely
outgrew all the Canal Companies’ appliances of wharves, boats, and horses.  Cotton lay at Liverpool
for weeks together, waiting to be removed; and it occupied a longer time to transport the cargoes
from Liverpool to Manchester than it had done to bring them across the Atlantic from the United
States to England.  Carts and waggons were tried, but proved altogether insufficient.  Sometimes
manufacturing operations had to be suspended altogether, and during a frost, when the canals
were frozen up, the communication was entirely stopped.  The consequences were often disastrous,
alike to operatives, merchants, and manufacturers.

Expostulation with the Canal Companies was of no use.  They were overcrowded with business
at their own prices, and disposed to be very dictatorial.  When the Duke first constructed
his canal, he had to encounter the fierce opposition of the Irwell and Mersey Navigation, whose
monopoly his new line of water conveyance threatened to interfere with. {147}  But the innovation
of one generation often becomes the obstruction of the next.  The Duke’s agents would scarcely
listen to the remonstrances of the Liverpool merchants and Manchester manufacturers, and the
Bridgewater Canal was accordingly, in its turn, denounced as a monopoly.

Under these circumstances, any new mode of transit between the two towns which offered a reasonable
prospect of relief was certain to receive a cordial welcome.  The scheme of a tramroad was,
however, so new and comparatively untried, that it is not surprising that the parties interested
should have hesitated before committing themselves to it.  Mr. Sandars, a Liverpool merchant,
was amongst the first to broach the subject.  He had suffered in his business, in common with
many others, from the insufficiency of the existing modes of communication, and was ready to
give consideration to any plan presenting elements of practical efficiency which proposed a
remedy for the generally admitted grievance. Having caused inquiry to be made as to the success
which had attended the haulage of heavy coal-trains by locomotive power on the northern railways,
he was led to the opinion that the same means might be equally efficient in conducting the
increasing traffic in merchandise between Liverpool and Manchester.  He ventilated the subject
amongst his friends, and about the beginning of 1821 a committee was formed for the purpose
of bringing the scheme of a railroad before the public.

The novel project having become noised abroad, attracted the attention of the friends of railways
in other quarters.  Tramroads were by no means new expedients for the transit of heavy articles.
The Croydon and Wandsworth Railway, laid down by William Jessop as early as the year 1801,
had been regularly used for the conveyance of lime and stone in waggons hauled by mules or
donkeys from Merstham to London.  The sight of this humble railroad in 1813 led Sir Richard
Phillips in his ‘Morning Walk to Kew’ to anticipate the great advantages which would be derived
by the nation from the general adoption of Blenkinsop’s engine for the conveyance of mails
and passengers at ten or even fifteen miles an hour. In the same year we find Mr. Lovell Edgworth,
who had for fifty years been advocating the superiority of tram or rail roads over common roads,
writing to James Watt (7th August, 1813): “I have always thought that steam would become the
universal lord, and that we should in time scorn post-horses; an iron railroad would be a cheaper
thing than a road upon the common construction.”

Thomas Gray, of Nottingham, was another speculator on the same subject. Though he was no mechanic
nor inventor, he had an enthusiastic belief in the powers of the railroad system.  Being a
native of Leeds, he had, when a boy, seen Blenkinsop’s locomotive at work on the Middleton
cogged railroad, and from an early period he seems to have entertained almost as sanguine views
on the subject as Sir Richard Phillips.  It would appear that Gray was residing in Brussels
in 1816, when the project of a canal from Charleroi, for the purpose of connecting Holland
with the mining districts of Belgium, was the subject of discussion; and, in conversation with
Mr. John Cockerill and others, he took the opportunity of advocating the superior advantages
of a railway.  He was absorbed for some time with the preparation of a pamphlet on the subject.
He shut himself up, secluded from his wife and relations, declining to give them any information
as to his mysterious studies, beyond the assurance that his scheme “would revolutionise the
whole face of the material world and of society.”  In 1820 Mr. Gray published the result of
his studies in his ‘Observations on a General Iron Railway,’ in which, with great cogency,
he urged the superiority of a locomotive railway over common roads and canals, pointing out,
at the same time, the advantages to all classes of the community of this mode of conveyance
for merchandise and persons.  In this book Mr. Gray suggested a railway between Manchester
and Liverpool, “which,” he observed, “would employ many thousands of the distressed population
of Lancashire.”  The treatise must have met with a ready sale, as we find that two years later
it had passed into a fourth edition.  In 1822 Mr. Gray added diagrams to the book, showing,
in one, suggested lines of railway connecting the principal towns of England, and in another,
the principal towns of Ireland.

These speculations show that the subject of railways was gradually becoming familiar to the
public mind, and that thoughtful men were anticipating with confidence the adoption of steam-power
for the purposes of railway traction.  At the same time, a still more profitable class of labourers
was at work—first, men like Stephenson, who were engaged in improving the locomotive and making
it a practicable and economical working power; and next, those like Edward Pease of Darlington,
and Joseph Sandars of Liverpool, who were organising the means of laying down the railways.
Mr. William James, of West Bromwich, belonged to the active class of projectors.  He was a
man of considerable social influence, of an active temperament, and had from an early period
taken a warm interest in the formation of tramroads.  Acting as land-agent for gentlemen of
property in the mining districts, he had laid down several tramroads in the neighbourhood of
Birmingham, Gloucester, and Bristol; and he published many pamphlets urging their formation
in other places. At one period of his life he was a large iron-manufacturer.  The times, however,
went against him.  It was thought he was too bold, some considered him even reckless, in his
speculations; and he lost almost his entire fortune.  He continued to follow the business of
a land-agent, and it was while engaged in making a survey for one of his clients in the neighbourhood
of Liverpool early in 1821, that he first heard of the project of a railway between that town
and Manchester.  He at once called upon Mr. Sandars, and offered his services as surveyor of
the proposed line, and his offer was accepted.

   [Picture: Map of Liverpool and Manchester Railway.  (Western Part.)]

   [Picture: Map of Liverpool and Manchester Railway.  (Eastern Part.)]

