COLLECTED ESSAYS; VOLUME V

SCIENCE AND CHRISTIAN TRADITION

BY THOMAS H. HUXLEY

NEW YORK, D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, 1902

PREFACE

"For close upon forty years I have been writing with one purpose; from time to time, I have
fought for that which seemed to me the truth, perhaps still more, against that which I have
thought error; and, in this way, I have reached, indeed over-stepped, the threshold of old
age. There, every earnest man has to listen to the voice within: 'Give an account of thy stewardship,
for thou mayest be no longer steward.'

"That I have been an unjust steward my conscience does not bear witness. At times blundering,
at times negligent, Heaven knows: but, on the whole, I have done that which I felt able and
called upon to do; and I have done it without looking to the right or to the left; seeking
no man's favor, fearing no man's disfavor.

"But what is it that I have been doing? In the end one's conceptions should form a whole, though
only parts may have found utterance, as occasion arose; now do these exhibit harmony and mutual
connexion? In one's zeal much of the old gets broken to pieces; but has one made ready something
new, fit to be set in the place of the old?

"That they merely destroy without reconstructing, is the especial charge, with which those
who work in this direction are constantly reproached. In a certain sense I do not defend myself
against the charge; but I deny that any reproach is deserved.

"I have never proposed to myself to begin outward construction; because I do not believe that
the time has come for it. Our present business is with inward preparation, especially the preparation
of those who have ceased to be content with the old, and find no satisfaction in half measures.
I have wished, and I still wish, to disturb no man's peace of mind, no man's beliefs; but only
to point out to those in whom they are already shattered, the direction in which, in my conviction,
firmer ground lies."[1]

So wrote one of the protagonists of the New Reformation--and a well-abused man if ever there
was one--a score of years since, in the remarkable book in which he discusses the negative
and the positive results of the rigorous application of scientific method to the investigation
of the higher problems of human life.

Recent experience leads me to imagine that there may be a good many countrymen of my own, even
at this time, to whom it may be profitable to read, mark and inwardly digest, the weighty words
of the author of that "Leben Jesu," which, half a century ago, stirred the religious world
so seriously that it has never settled down again quite on the old foundations; indeed, some
think it never will. I have a personal interest in the carrying out of the recommendation I
venture to make. It may enable many worthy persons, in whose estimation I should really be
glad to stand higher than I do, to become aware of the possibility that my motives in writing
the essays, contained in this and the preceding volume, were not exactly those that they ascribe
to me.

I too have reached the term at which the still, small voice, more audible than any other to
the dulled ear of age, makes its demand; and I have found that it is of no sort of use to try
to cook the accounts rendered. Nevertheless, I distinctly decline to admit some of the items
charged; more particularly that of having "gone out of my way" to attack the Bible; and I as
steadfastly deny that "hatred of Christianity" is a feeling with which I have any acquaintance.
There are very few things which I find it permissible to hate; and though, it may be, that
some of the organisations, which arrogate to themselves the Christian name, have richly earned
a place in the category of hateful things, that ought to have nothing to do with one's estimation
of the religion, which they have perverted and disfigured out of all likeness to the original.

The simple fact is that, as I have already more than once hinted, my story is that of the wolf
and the lamb over again. I have never "gone out of my way" to attack the Bible, or anything
else: it was the dominant ecclesiasticism of my early days, which, as I believe, without any
warrant from the Bible itself, thrust the book in my way.

I had set out on a journey, with no other purpose than that of exploring a certain province
of natural knowledge; I strayed no hair's breadth from the course which it was my right and
my duty to pursue; and yet I found that, whatever route I took, before long, I came to a tall
and formidable-looking fence. Confident as I might be in the existence of an ancient and indefeasible
right of way, before me stood the thorny barrier with its comminatory notice-board--"No Thoroughfare.
By order. Moses." There seemed no way over; nor did the prospect of creeping round, as I saw
some do, attract me. True there was no longer any cause to fear the spring guns and man-traps
set by former lords of the manor; but one is apt to get very dirty going on all-fours. The
only alternatives were either to give up my journey--which I was not minded to do--or to break
the fence down and go through it.

Now I was and am, by nature, a law-abiding person, ready and willing to submit to all legitimate
authority. But I also had and have a rooted conviction, that reasonable assurance of the legitimacy
should precede the submission; so I made it my business to look up the manorial title-deeds.
The pretensions of the ecclesiastical "Moses" to exercise a control over the operations of
the reasoning faculty in the search after truth, thirty centuries after his age, might be justifiable;
but, assuredly, the credentials produced in justification of claims so large required careful
scrutiny.

Singular discoveries rewarded my industry. The ecclesiastical "Moses" proved to be a mere traditional
mask, behind which, no doubt, lay the features of the historical Moses--just as many a mediæval
fresco has been hidden by the whitewash of Georgian churchwardens. And as the æsthetic rector
too often scrapes away the defacement, only to find blurred, parti-coloured patches, in which
the original design is no longer to be traced; so, when the successive layers of Jewish and
Christian traditional pigment, laid on, at intervals, for near three thousand years, had been
removed, by even the tenderest critical operations, there was not much to be discerned of the
leader of the Exodus.

Only one point became perfectly clear to me, namely, that Moses is not responsible for nine-tenths
of the Pentateuch; certainly not for the legends which had been made the bugbears of science.
In fact, the fence turned out to be a mere heap of dry sticks and brushwood, and one might
walk through it with impunity: the which I did. But I was still young, when I thus ventured
to assert my liberty; and young people are apt to be filled with a kind of sæva indignatio,
when they discover the wide discrepancies between things as they seem and things as they are.
It hurts their vanity to feel that they have prepared themselves for a mighty struggle to climb
over, or break their way through, a rampart, which turns out, on close approach, to be a mere
heap of ruins; venerable, indeed, and archæologically interesting, but of no other moment.
And some fragment of the superfluous energy accumulated is apt to find vent in strong language.

Such, I suppose, was my case, when I wrote some passages which occur in an essay reprinted
among "Darwiniana."[2] But when, not long ago "the voice" put it to me, whether I had better
not expunge, or modify, these passages; whether, really, they were not a little too strong;
I had to reply, with all deference, that while, from a merely literary point of view, I might
admit them to be rather crude, I must stand by the substance of these items of my expenditure.
I further ventured to express the conviction that scientific criticism of the Old Testament,
since 1860, has justified every word of the estimate of the authority of the ecclesiastical
"Moses" written at that time. And, carried away by the heat of self-justification, I even ventured
to add, that the desperate attempt now set afoot to force biblical and post-biblical mythology
into elementary instruction, renders it useful and necessary to go on making a considerable
outlay in the same direction. Not yet, has "the cosmogony of the semi-barbarous Hebrew" ceased
to be the "incubus of the philosopher, and the opprobrium of the orthodox;" not yet, has "the
zeal of the Bibliolater" ceased from troubling; not yet, are the weaker sort, even of the instructed,
at rest from their fruitless toil "to harmonise impossibilities," and "to force the generous
new wine of science into the old bottles of Judaism."

But I am aware that the head and front of my offending lies not now where it formerly lay.
Thirty years ago, criticism of "Moses" was held by most respectable people to be deadly sin;
now it has sunk to the rank of a mere peccadillo; at least, if it stops short of the history
of Abraham. Destroy the foundation of most forms of dogmatic Christianity contained in the
second chapter of Genesis, if you will; the new ecclesiasticism undertakes to underpin the
superstructure and make it, at any rate to the eye, as firm as ever: but let him be anathema
who applies exactly the same canons of criticism to the opening chapters of "Matthew" or of
"Luke." School-children may be told that the world was by no means made in six days, and that
implicit belief in the story of Noah's Ark is permissible only, as a matter of business, to
their toy-makers; but they are to hold for the certainest of truths, to be doubted only at
peril of their salvation, that their Galilean fellow-child Jesus, nineteen centuries ago, had
no human father.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, we will pass the item of 1860, said "the voice." But why all this more recent coil about
the Gadarene swine and the like? Do you pretend that these poor animals got in your way, years
and years after the "Mosaic" fences were down, at any rate so far as you are concerned?

Got in my way? Why, my good "voice," they were driven in my way. I had happened to make a statement,
than which, so far as I have ever been able to see, nothing can be more modest or inoffensive;
to wit, that I am convinced of my own utter ignorance about a great number of things, respecting
which the great majority of my neighbours (not only those of adult years, but children repeating
their catechisms) affirm themselves to possess full information. I ask any candid and impartial
judge, Is that attacking anybody or anything?

Yet, if I had made the most wanton and arrogant onslaught on the honest convictions of other
people, I could not have been more hardly dealt with. The pentecostal charism, I believe, exhausted
itself amongst the earliest disciples. Yet any one who has had to attend, as I have done, to
copious objurgations, strewn with such appellations as "infidel" and "coward," must be a hardened
sceptic indeed if he doubts the existence of a "gift of tongues" in the Churches of our time;
unless, indeed, it should occur to him that some of these outpourings may have taken place
after "the third hour of the day." I am far from thinking that it is worth while to give much
attention to these inevitable incidents of all controversies, in which one party has acquired
the mental peculiarities which are generated by the habit of much talking, with immunity from
criticism. But as a rule, they are the sauce of dishes of misrepresentations and inaccuracies
which it may be a duty, nay, even an innocent pleasure, to expose. In the particular case of
which I am thinking, I felt, as Strauss says, "able and called upon" to undertake the business:
and it is no responsibility of mine, if I found the Gospels, with their miraculous stories,
of which the Gadarene is a typical example, blocking my way, as heretofore, the Pentateuch
had done.

I was challenged to question the authority for the theory of "the spiritual world," and the
practical consequences deducible from human relations to it, contained in these documents.

In my judgment, the actuality of this spiritual world--the value of the evidence for its objective
existence and its influence upon the course of things--are matters, which lie as much within
the province of science, as any other question about the existence and powers of the varied
forms of living and conscious activity.

It really is my strong conviction that a man has no more right to say he believes this world
is haunted by swarms of evil spirits, without being able to produce satisfactory evidence of
the fact, than he has a right to say, without adducing adequate proof, that the circumpolar
antarctic ice swarms with sea-serpents. I should not like to assert positively that it does
not. I imagine that no cautious biologist would say as much; but while quite open to conviction,
he might properly decline to waste time upon the consideration of talk, no better accredited
than forecastle "yarns," about such monsters of the deep. And if the interests of ordinary
veracity dictate this course, in relation to a matter of so little consequence as this, what
must be our obligations in respect of the treatment of a question which is fundamental alike
for science and for ethics? For not only does our general theory of the universe and of the
nature of the order which pervades it, hang upon the answer; but the rules of practical life
must be deeply affected by it.

The belief in a demonic world is inculcated throughout the Gospels and the rest of the books
of the New Testament; it pervades the whole patristic literature; it colours the theory and
the practice of every Christian church down to modern times. Indeed, I doubt if, even now,
there is any church which, officially, departs from such a fundamental doctrine of primitive
Christianity as the existence, in addition to the Cosmos with which natural knowledge is conversant,
of a world of spirits; that is to say, of intelligent agents, not subject to the physical or
mental limitations of humanity, but nevertheless competent to interfere, to an undefined extent,
with the ordinary course of both physical and mental phenomena.

More especially is this conception fundamental for the authors of the Gospels. Without the
belief that the present world, and particularly that part of it which is constituted by human
society, has been given over, since the Fall, to the influence of wicked and malignant spiritual
beings, governed and directed by a supreme devil--the moral antithesis and enemy of the supreme
God--their theory of salvation by the Messiah falls to pieces. "To this end was the Son of
God manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil."[3]

The half-hearted religiosity of latter-day Christianity may choose to ignore the fact; but
it remains none the less true, that he who refuses to accept the demonology of the Gospels
rejects the revelation of a spiritual world, made in them, as much as if he denied the existence
of such a person as Jesus of Nazareth; and deserves, as much as any one can do, to be ear-marked
"infidel" by our gentle shepherds.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now that which I thought it desirable to make perfectly clear, on my own account, and for the
sake of those who find their capacity of belief in the Gospel theory of the universe failing
them, is the fact, that, in my judgment, the demonology of primitive Christianity is totally
devoid of foundation; and that no man, who is guided by the rules of investigation which are
found to lead to the discovery of truth in other matters, not merely of science, but in the
everyday affairs of life, will arrive at any other conclusion. To those who profess to be otherwise
guided, I have nothing to say; but to beg them to go their own way and leave me to mine.

I think it may be as well to repeat what I have said, over and over again, elsewhere, that
a priori notions, about the possibility, or the impossibility, of the existence of a world
of spirits, such as that presupposed by genuine Christianity, have no influence on my mind.
The question for me is purely one of evidence: is the evidence adequate to bear out the theory,
or is it not? In my judgment it is not only inadequate, but quite absurdly insufficient. And
on that ground, I should feel compelled to reject the theory; even if there were no positive
grounds for adopting a totally different conception of the Cosmos.

For most people, the question of the evidence of the existence of a demonic world, in the long
run, resolves itself into that of the trustworthiness of the Gospels; first, as to the objective
truth of that which they narrate on this topic; second, as to the accuracy of the interpretation
which their authors put upon these objective facts. For example, with respect to the Gadarene
miracle, it is one question whether, at a certain time and place, a raving madman became sane,
and a herd of swine rushed into the lake of Tiberias; and quite another, whether the cause
of these occurrences was the transmigration of certain devils from the man into the pigs. And
again, it is one question whether Jesus made a long oration on a certain occasion, mentioned
in the first Gospel; altogether another, whether more or fewer of the propositions contained
in the "Sermon on the Mount" were uttered on that occasion. One may give an affirmative answer
to one of each of these pairs of questions and a negative to the other: one may affirm all,
or deny all.

In considering the historical value of any four documents, proof when they were written and
who wrote them is, no doubt, highly important. For if proof exists, that A B C and D wrote
them, and that they were intelligent persons, writing independently and without prejudice,
about facts within their own knowledge--their statements must needs be worthy of the most attentive
consideration.[4] But, even ecclesiastical tradition does not assert that either "Mark" or
"Luke" wrote from his own knowledge--indeed "Luke" expressly asserts he did not. I cannot discover
that any competent authority now maintains that the apostle Matthew wrote the Gospel which
passes under his name. And whether the apostle John had, or had not, anything to do with the
fourth Gospel; and if he had, what his share amounted to; are, as everybody who has attended
to these matters knows, questions still hotly disputed, and with regard to which the extant
evidence can hardly carry an impartial judge beyond the admission of a possibility this way
or that.

Thus, nothing but a balancing of very dubious probabilities is to be attained by approaching
the question from this side. It is otherwise if we make the documents tell their own story:
if we study them, as we study fossils, to discover internal evidence, of when they arose, and
how they have come to be. That really fruitful line of inquiry has led to the statement and
the discussion of what is known as the Synoptic Problem.

In the Essays (VII.--XI.) which deal with the consequences of the application of the agnostic
principle to Christian Evidences, contained in this volume, there are several references to
the results of the attempts which have been made, during the last hundred years, to solve this
problem. And, though it has been clearly stated and discussed, in works accessible to, and
intelligible by, every English reader,[5] it may be well that I should here set forth a very
brief exposition of the matters of fact out of which the problem has arisen; and of some consequences,
which, as I conceive, must be admitted if the facts are accepted.

These undisputed and, apparently, indisputable data may be thus stated:

I. The three books of which an ancient, but very questionable, ecclesiastical tradition asserts
Matthew, Mark, and Luke to be the authors, agree, not only in presenting the same general view,
or Synopsis, of the nature and the order of the events narrated; but, to a remarkable extent,
the very words which they employ coincide.

II. Nevertheless, there are many equally marked, and some irreconcilable, differences between
them. Narratives, verbally identical in some portions, diverge more or less in others. The
order in which they occur in one, or in two, Gospels may be changed in another. In "Matthew"
and in "Luke" events of great importance make their appearance, where the story of "Mark" seems
to leave no place for them; and, at the beginning and the end of the two former Gospels, there
is a great amount of matter of which there is no trace in "Mark."

III. Obvious and highly important differences, in style and substance, separate the three "Synoptics,"
taken together, from the fourth Gospel, connected, by ecclesiastical tradition, with the name
of the apostle John. In its philosophical proemium; in the conspicuous absence of exorcistic
miracles; in the self-assertive theosophy of the long and diffuse monologues, which are so
utterly unlike the brief and pregnant utterances of Jesus recorded in the Synoptics; in the
assertion that the crucifixion took place before the Passover, which involves the denial, by
implication, of the truth of the Synoptic story--to mention only a few particulars--the "Johannine"
Gospel presents a wide divergence from the other three.

IV. If the mutual resemblances and differences of the Synoptic Gospels are closely considered,
a curious result comes out; namely, that each may be analyzed into four components. The first
of these consists of passages, to a greater or less extent verbally identical, which occur
in all three Gospels. If this triple tradition is separated from the rest it will be found
to comprise:

a. A narrative, of a somewhat broken and anecdotic aspect, which covers the period from the
appearance of John the Baptist to the discovery of the emptiness of the tomb, on the first
day of the week, some six-and-thirty hours after the crucifixion.

b. An apocalyptic address.

c. Parables and brief discourses, or rather, centos of religious and ethical exhortations and
injunctions.

The second and the third set of components of each Gospel present equally close resemblances
to passages, which are found in only one of the other Gospels; therefore it may be said that,
for them, the tradition is double. The fourth component is peculiar to each Gospel; it is a
single tradition and has no representative in the others.

To put the facts in another way: each Gospel is composed of a threefold tradition, two twofold
traditions, and one peculiar tradition. If the Gospels were the work of totally independent
writers, it would follow that there are three witnesses for the statements in the first tradition;
two for each of those in the second, and only one for those in the third.

V. If the reader will now take up that extremely instructive little book, Abbott and Rushbrooke's
"Common Tradition" he will easily satisfy himself that "Mark" has the remarkable structure
just described. Almost the whole of this Gospel consists of the first component; namely, the
threefold tradition. But in chap. i. 23-28 he will discover an exorcistic story, not to be
found in "Matthew," but repeated, often word for word, in "Luke." This, therefore, belongs
to one of the twofold traditions. In chap. viii. 1-10, on the other hand, there is a detailed
account of the miracle of feeding the four thousand; which is closely repeated in "Matthew"
xv. 32-39, but is not to be found in "Luke." This is an example of the other twofold tradition,
possible in "Mark." Finally, the story of the blind man of Bethsaida, "Mark" viii. 22-26, is
peculiar to "Mark."

VI. Suppose that, A standing for the threefold tradition, or the matter common to all three
Gospels; we call the matter common to "Mark" and "Matthew" only--B; that common to "Mark" and
"Luke" only--C; that common to "Matthew" and "Luke" only--D; while the peculiar components
of "Mark," "Matthew," and "Luke" are severally indicated by E, F, G; then the structure of
the Gospels may be represented thus:

  Components of "Mark" = A + B + C + E.
     "       "Matthew" = A + B + D + F.
     "          "Luke" = A + C + D + G.

VII. The analysis of the Synoptic documents need be carried no further than this point, in
order to suggest one extremely important, and, apparently unavoidable conclusion; and that
is, that their authors were neither three independent witnesses of the things narrated; nor,
for the parts of the narrative about which all agree, that is to say, the threefold tradition,
did they employ independent sources of information. It is simply incredible that each of three
independent witnesses of any series of occurrences should tell a story so similar, not only
in arrangement and in small details, but in words, to that of each of the others.

Hence it follows, either that the Synoptic writers have, mediately or immediately, copied one
from the other: or that the three have drawn from a common source; that is to say, from one
arrangement of similar traditions (whether oral or written); though that arrangement may have
been extant in three or more, somewhat different versions.

VIII. The suppositions (a) that "Mark" had "Matthew" and "Luke" before him; and (b) that either
of the two latter was acquainted with the work of the other, would seem to involve some singular
consequences.

a. The second Gospel is saturated with the lowest supernaturalism. Jesus is exhibited as a
wonder-worker and exorcist of the first rank. The earliest public recognition of the Messiahship
of Jesus comes from an "unclean spirit"; he himself is made to testify to the occurrence of
the miraculous feeding twice over.

The purpose with which "Mark" sets out is to show forth Jesus as the Son of God, and it is
suggested, if not distinctly stated, that he acquired this character at his baptism by John.
The absence of any reference to the miraculous events of the infancy, detailed by "Matthew"
and "Luke;" or to the appearances after the discovery of the emptiness of the tomb; is unintelligible,
if "Mark" knew anything about them, or believed in the miraculous conception. The second Gospel
is no summary: "Mark" can find room for the detailed story, irrelevant to his main purpose,
of the beheading of John the Baptist, and his miraculous narrations are crowded with minute
particulars. Is it to be imagined that, with the supposed apostolic authority of Matthew before
him, he could leave out the miraculous conception of Jesus and the ascension? Further, ecclesiastical
tradition would have us believe that Mark wrote down his recollections of what Peter taught.
Did Peter then omit to mention these matters? Did the fact testified by the oldest authority
extant, that the first appearance of the risen Jesus was to himself seem not worth mentioning?
Did he really fail to speak of the great position in the Church solemnly assigned to him by
Jesus? The alternative would seem to be the impeachment either of Mark's memory, or of his
judgment. But Mark's memory, is so good that he can recollect how, on the occasion of the stilling
of the waves, Jesus was asleep "on the cushion," he remembers that the woman with the issue
had "spent all she had" on her physicians; that there was not room "even about the door" on
a certain occasion at Capernaum. And it is surely hard to believe that "Mark" should have failed
to recollect occurrences of infinitely greater moment, or that he should have deliberately
left them out, as things not worthy of mention.

b. The supposition that "Matthew" was acquainted with "Luke," or "Luke" with "Matthew" has
equally grave implications. If that be so, the one who used the other could have had but a
poor opinion of his predecessor's historical veracity. If, as most experts agree, "Luke" is
later than "Matthew," it is clear that he does not credit "Matthew's" account of the infancy;
does not believe the "Sermon on the Mount" as given by Matthew was preached; does not believe
in the two feeding miracles, to which Jesus himself is made to refer; wholly discredits "Matthew's"
account of the events after the crucifixion; and thinks it not worth while to notice "Matthew's"
grave admission that "some doubted."

IX. None of these troublesome consequences pursue the hypothesis that the threefold tradition,
in one, or more, Greek versions, was extant before either of the canonical Synoptic Gospels;
and that it furnished the fundamental framework of their several narratives. Where and when
the threefold narrative arose, there is no positive evidence; though it is obviously probable
that the traditions it embodies, and perhaps many others, took their rise in Palestine and
spread thence to Asia Minor, Greece, Egypt and Italy, in the track of the early missionaries.
Nor is it less likely that they formed part of the "didaskalia" of the primitive Nazarene and
Christian communities.[6]

X. The interest which attaches to "Mark" arises from the fact that it seems to present this
early, probably earliest, Greek Gospel narrative, with least addition, or modification. If,
as appears likely from some internal evidences, it was compiled for the use of the Christian
sodalities in Rome; and that it was accepted by them as an adequate account of the life and
work of Jesus, it is evidence of the most valuable kind respecting their beliefs and the limits
of dogma, as conceived by them.

In such case, a good Roman Christian of that epoch might know nothing of the doctrine of the
incarnation, as taught by "Matthew" and "Luke"; still less of the "logos" doctrine of "John";
neither need he have believed anything more than the simple fact of the resurrection. It was
open to him to believe it either corporeal or spiritual. He would never have heard of the power
of the keys bestowed upon Peter; nor have had brought to his mind so much as a suggestion of
trinitarian doctrine. He might be a rigidly monotheistic Judæo-Christian, and consider himself
bound by the law: he might be a Gentile Pauline convert, neither knowing of nor caring for
such restrictions. In neither case would he find in "Mark" any serious stumbling-block. In
fact, persons of all the categories admitted to salvation by Justin, in the middle of the second
century,[7] could accept "Mark" from beginning to end. It may well be, that, in this wide adaptability,
backed by the authority of the metropolitan church, there lies the reason for the fact of the
preservation of "Mark," notwithstanding its limited and dogmatically colourless character,
as compared with the Gospels of "Luke" and "Matthew."

XI. "Mark," as we have seen, contains a relatively small body of ethical and religious instruction
and only a few parables. Were these all that existed in the primitive threefold tradition?
Were none others current in the Roman communities, at the time "Mark" wrote, supposing he wrote
in Rome? Or, on the other hand, was there extant, as early as the time at which "Mark" composed
his Greek edition of the primitive Evangel, one or more collections of parables and teachings,
such as those which form the bulk of the twofold tradition, common exclusively to "Matthew"
and "Luke," and are also found in their single traditions? Many have assumed this, or these,
collections to be identical with, or at any rate based upon, the "logia," of which ecclesiastical
tradition says, that they were written in Aramaic by Matthew, and that everybody translated
them as he could.

Here is the old difficulty again. If such materials were known to "Mark," what imaginable reason
could he have for not using them? Surely displacement of the long episode of John the Baptist--even
perhaps of the story of the Gadarene swine--by portions of the Sermon on the Mount or by one
or two of the beautiful parables in the twofold and single traditions would have been great
improvements; and might have been effected, even though "Mark" was as much pressed for space
as some have imagined. But there is no ground for that imagination; Mark has actually found
room for four or five parables; why should he not have given the best, if he had known of them?
Admitting he was the mere pedissequus et breviator of Matthew, that even Augustine supposed
him to be, what could induce him to omit the Lord's Prayer?

Whether more or less of the materials of the twofold tradition D, and of the peculiar traditions
F and G, were or were not current in some of the communities, as early as, or perhaps earlier
than, the triple tradition, it is not necessary for me to discuss; nor to consider those solutions
of the Synoptic problem which assume that it existed earlier, and was already combined with
more or less narrative. Those who are working out the final solution of the Synoptic problem
are taking into account, more than hitherto, the possibility that the widely separated Christian
communities of Palestine, Asia Minor, Egypt, and Italy, especially after the Jewish war of
A.D. 66-70, may have found themselves in possession of very different traditional materials.
Many circumstances tend to the conclusion that, in Asia Minor, even the narrative part of the
threefold tradition had a formidable rival; and that, around this second narrative, teaching
traditions of a totally different order from those in the Synoptics, grouped themselves; and,
under the influence of converts imbued more or less with the philosophical speculations of
the time, eventually took shape in the fourth Gospel and its associated literature.

XII. But it is unnecessary, and it would be out of place, for me to attempt to do more than
indicate the existence of these complex and difficult questions. My purpose has been to make
it clear that the Synoptic problem must force itself upon every one who studies the Gospels
with attention; that the broad facts of the case, and some of the consequences deducible from
these facts, are just as plain to the simple English reader as they are to the profoundest scholar.

One of these consequences is that the threefold tradition presents us with a narrative believed
to be historically true, in all its particulars, by the major part, if not the whole, of the
Christian communities. That narrative is penetrated, from beginning to end, by the demonological
beliefs of which the Gadarene story is a specimen; and, if the fourth Gospel indicates the
existence of another and, in some respects, irreconcilably divergent narrative, in which the
demonology retires into the background, it is none the less there.

Therefore, the demonology is an integral and inseparable component of primitive Christianity.
The farther back the origin of the gospels is dated, the stronger does the certainty of this
conclusion grow; and the more difficult it becomes to suppose that Jesus himself may not have
shared the superstitious beliefs of his disciples.

It further follows that those who accept devils, possession, and exorcism as essential elements
of their conception of the spiritual world may consistently consider the testimony of the Gospels
to be unimpeachable in respect of the information they give us respecting other matters which
appertain to that world.

Those who reject the gospel demonology, on the other hand, would seem to be as completely barred,
as I feel myself to be, from professing to take the accuracy of that information for granted.
If the threefold tradition is wrong about one fundamental topic, it may be wrong about another,
while the authority of the single traditions, often mutually contradictory as they are, becomes
a vanishing quantity.

It really is unreasonable to ask any rejector of the demonology to say more with respect to
those other matters, than that the statements regarding them may be true, or may be false;
and that the ultimate decision, if it is to be favourable, must depend on the production of
testimony of a very different character from that of the writers of the four gospels. Until
such evidence is brought forward, that refusal of assent, with willingness to re-open the question,
on cause shown, which is what I mean by Agnosticism, is, for me, the only course open.

       *       *       *       *       *

A verdict of "not proven" is undoubtedly unsatisfactory and essentially provisional, so far
forth as the subject of the trial is capable of being dealt with by due process of reason.

Those who are of opinion that the historical realities at the root of Christianity, lie beyond
the jurisdiction of science, need not be considered. Those who are convinced that the evidence
is, and must always remain, insufficient to support any definite conclusion, are justified
in ignoring the subject. They must be content to put up with that reproach of being mere destroyers,
of which Strauss speaks. They may say that there are so many problems which are and must remain
insoluble, that the "burden of the mystery" "of all this unintelligible world" is not appreciably
affected by one more or less.

For myself, I must confess that the problem of the origin of such very remarkable historical
phenomena as the doctrines, and the social organization, which in their broad features certainly
existed, and were in a state of rapid development, within a hundred years of the crucifixion
of Jesus; and which have steadily prevailed against all rivals, among the most intelligent
and civilized nations in the world ever since, is, and always has been, profoundly interesting;
and, considering how recent the really scientific study of that problem, and how great the
progress made during the last half century in supplying the conditions for a positive solution
of the problem, I cannot doubt that the attainment of such a solution is a mere question of time.

I am well aware that it has lain far beyond my powers to take any share in this great undertaking.
All that I can hope is to have done somewhat towards "the preparation of those who have ceased
to be contented with the old and find no satisfaction in half measures": perhaps, also, something
towards the lessening of that great proportion of my countrymen, whose eminent characteristic
it is that they find "full satisfaction in half measures."

T.H.H. HODESLEA, EASTBOURNE, December 4th, 1893.

FOOTNOTES:

      [1] D.F. Strauss, Der alte und der neue Glaube
          (1872), pp. 9, 10.

      [2] Collected Essays, vol. ii., "On the Origin of
          Species" (1860).

      [3] 1 John iii. 8.

      [4] Not necessarily of more than this. A few centuries
          ago the twelve most intelligent and impartial men to be
          found in England, would have independently testified
          that the sun moves, from east to west, across the
          heavens every day.

      [5] Nowhere more concisely and clearly than in Dr.
          Sutherland Black's article "Gospels" in Chambers's
          Encyclopædia. References are given to the more
          elaborate discussions of the problem.

      [6] Those who regard the Apocalyptic discourse as a
          "vaticination after the event" may draw conclusions
          therefrom as to the date of the Gospels in which its
          several forms occur. But the assumption is surely
          dangerous, from an apologetic point of view, since it
          begs the question as to the unhistorical character of
          this solemn prophecy.

      [7] See p. 287 of this volume.

CONTENTS

                                                      PAGE
   I. PROLOGUE                                           1
      (Controverted Questions, 1892).

  II. SCIENTIFIC AND PSEUDO-SCIENTIFIC REALISM [1887]   59

 III. SCIENCE AND PSEUDO-SCIENCE [1887]                 90

  IV. AN EPISCOPAL TRILOGY [1887]                      126

   V. THE VALUE OF WITNESS TO THE MIRACULOUS [1889]    160

  VI. POSSIBILITIES AND IMPOSSIBILITIES [1891]         192

 VII. AGNOSTICISM [1889]                               209

VIII. AGNOSTICISM: A REJOINDER [1889]                  263

  IX. AGNOSTICISM AND CHRISTIANITY [1889]              309

   X. THE KEEPERS OF THE HERD OF SWINE [1890]          366

  XI. ILLUSTRATIONS OF MR. GLADSTONE'S CONTROVERSIAL
      METHODS [1891]                                   393

I: PROLOGUE

[Controverted Questions, 1892]

Le plus grand service qu'on puisse rendre à la science est d'y faire place nette avant d'y
rien construire.--CUVIER.

Most of the Essays comprised in the present volume have been written during the last six or
seven years, without premeditated purpose or intentional connection, in reply to attacks upon
doctrines which I hold to be well founded; or in refutation of allegations respecting matters
lying within the province of natural knowledge, which I believe to be erroneous; and they bear
the mark of their origin in the controversial tone which pervades them.

Of polemical writing, as of other kinds of warfare, I think it may be said, that it is often
useful, sometimes necessary, and always more or less of an evil. It is useful, when it attracts
attention to topics which might otherwise be neglected; and when, as does sometimes happen,
those who come to see a contest remain to think. It is necessary, when the interests of truth
and of justice are at stake. It is an evil, in so far as controversy always tends to degenerate
into quarrelling, to swerve from the great issue of what is right and what is wrong to the
very small question of who is right and who is wrong. I venture to hope that the useful and
the necessary were more conspicuous than the evil attributes of literary militancy, when these
papers were first published; but I have had some hesitation about reprinting them. If I may
judge by my own taste, few literary dishes are less appetising than cold controversy; moreover,
there is an air of unfairness about the presentation of only one side of a discussion, and
a flavour of unkindness in the reproduction of "winged words," which, however appropriate at
the time of their utterance, would find a still more appropriate place in oblivion. Yet, since
I could hardly ask those who have honoured me by their polemical attentions to confer lustre
on this collection, by permitting me to present their lucubrations along with my own; and since
it would be a manifest wrong to them to deprive their, by no means rare, vivacities of language
of such justification as they may derive from similar freedoms on my part; I came to the conclusion
that my best course was to leave the essays just as they were written;[8] assuring my honourable
adversaries that any heat of which signs may remain was generated, in accordance with the law
of the conservation of energy, by the force of their own blows, and has long since been dissipated
into space.

But, however the polemical coincomitants of these discussions may be regarded--or better, disregarded--there
is no doubt either about the importance of the topics of which they treat, or as to the public
interest in the "Controverted Questions" with which they deal. I have yet to learn that the
main propositions of this essay can be seriously challenged.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have hitherto dwelt upon scientific Naturalism chiefly in its critical and destructive aspect.
But the present incarnation of the spirit of the Renascence differs from its predecessor in
the eighteenth century, in that it builds up, as well as pulls down.

That of which it has laid the foundation, of which it is already raising the superstructure,
is the doctrine of evolution. But so many strange misconceptions are current about this doctrine--it
is attacked on such false grounds by its enemies, and made to cover so much that is disputable
by some of its friends, that I think it well to define as clearly as I can, what I do not and
what I do understand by the doctrine.

I have nothing to say to any "Philosophy of Evolution." Attempts to construct such a philosophy
may be as useful, nay, even as admirable, as was the attempt of Descartes to get at a theory
of the universe by the same a priori road; but, in my judgment, they are as premature. Nor,
for this purpose, have I to do with any theory of the "Origin of Species," much as I value
that which is known as the Darwinian theory. That the doctrine of natural selection presupposes
evolution is quite true; but it is not true that evolution necessarily implies natural selection.
In fact, evolution might conceivably have taken place without the development of groups possessing
the characters of species.

For me, the doctrine of evolution is no speculation, but a generalisation of certain facts,
which may be observed by any one who will take the necessary trouble. These facts are those
which are classed by biologists under the heads of Embryology and of Palæontology. Embryology
proves that every higher form of individual life becomes what it is by a process of gradual
differentiation from an extremely low form; palæontology proves, in some cases, and renders
probable in all, that the oldest types of a group are the lowest; and that they have been followed
by a gradual succession of more and more differentiated forms. It is simply a fact, that evolution
of the individual animal and plant is taking place, as a natural process, in millions and millions
of cases every day; it is a fact, that the species which have succeeded one another in the
past, do, in many cases, present just those morphological relations, which they must possess,
if they had proceeded, one from the other, by an analogous process of evolution.

The alternative presented, therefore, is: either the forms of one and the same type--say, e.g.,
that of the Horse tribe[13]--arose successively, but independently of one another, at intervals,
during myriads of years; or, the later forms are modified descendants of the earlier. And the
latter supposition is so vastly more probable than the former, that rational men will adopt
it, unless satisfactory evidence to the contrary can be produced. The objection sometimes put
forward, that no one yet professes to have seen one species pass into another, comes oddly
from those who believe that mankind are all descended from Adam. Has any one then yet seen
the production of negroes from a white stock, or vice versâ? Moreover, is it absolutely necessary
to have watched every step of the progress of a planet, to be justified in concluding that
it really does go round the sun? If so, astronomy is in a bad way.

I do not, for a moment, presume to suggest that some one, far better acquainted than I am with
astronomy and physics; or that a master of the new chemistry, with its extraordinary revelations;
or that a student of the development of human society, of language, and of religions, may not
find a sufficient foundation for the doctrine of evolution in these several regions. On the
contrary, I rejoice to see that scientific investigation, in all directions, is tending to
the same result. And it may well be, that it is only my long occupation with biological matters
that leads me to feel safer among them than anywhere else. Be that as it may, I take my stand
on the facts of embryology and of palæontology; and I hold that our present knowledge of these
facts is sufficiently thorough and extensive to justify the assertion that all future philosophical
and theological speculations will have to accommodate themselves to some such common body of
established truths as the following:--

1. Plants and animals have existed on our planet for many hundred thousand, probably millions,
of years. During this time, their forms, or species, have undergone a succession of changes,
which eventually gave rise to the species which constitute the present living population of
the earth. There is no evidence, nor any reason to suspect, that this secular process of evolution
is other than a part of the ordinary course of nature; there is no more ground for imagining
the occurrence of supernatural intervention, at any moment in the development of species in
the past, than there is for supposing such intervention to take place, at any moment in the
development of an individual animal or plant, at the present day.

2. At present, every individual animal or plant commences its existence as an organism of extremely
simple anatomical structure; and it acquires all the complexity it ultimately possesses by
gradual differentiation into parts of various structure and function. When a series of specific
forms of the same type, extending over a long period of past time, is examined, the relation
between the earlier and the later forms is analogous to that between earlier and later stages
of individual development. Therefore, it is a probable conclusion that, if we could follow
living beings back to their earlier states, we should find them to present forms similar to
those of the individual germ, or, what comes to the same thing, of those lowest known organisms
which stand upon the boundary line between plants and animals. At present, our knowledge of
the ancient living world stops very far short of this point.

3. It is generally agreed, and there is certainly no evidence to the contrary, that all plants
are devoid of consciousness; that they neither feel, desire, nor think. It is conceivable that
the evolution of the primordial living substance should have taken place only along the plant
line. In that case, the result might have been a wealth of vegetable life, as great, perhaps
as varied, as at present, though certainly widely different from the present flora, in the
evolution of which animals have played so great a part. But the living world thus constituted
would be simply an admirable piece of unconscious machinery, the working out of which lay potentially
in its primitive composition; pleasure and pain would have no place in it; it would be a veritable
Garden of Eden without any tree of the knowledge of good and evil. The question of the moral
government of such a world could no more be asked, than we could reasonably seek for a moral
purpose in a kaleidoscope.

4. How far down the scale of animal life the phenomena of consciousness are manifested, it
is impossible to say. No one doubts their presence in his fellow-men; and, unless any strict
Cartesians are left, no one doubts that mammals and birds are to be reckoned creatures that
have feelings analogous to our smell, taste, sight, hearing, touch, pleasure, and pain. For
my own part, I should be disposed to extend this analogical judgment a good deal further. On
the other hand, if the lowest forms of plants are to be denied consciousness, I do not see
on what ground it is to be ascribed to the lowest animals. I find it hard to believe that an
infusory animalcule, a foraminifer, or a fresh-water polype is capable of feeling; and, in
spite of Shakspere, I have doubts about the great sensitiveness of the "poor beetle that we
tread upon." The question is equally perplexing when we turn to the stages of development of
the individual. Granted a fowl feels; that the chick just hatched feels; that the chick when
it chirps within the egg may possibly feel; what is to be said of it on the fifth day, when
the bird is there, but with all its tissues nascent? Still more, on the first day, when it
is nothing but a flat cellular disk? I certainly cannot bring myself to believe that this disk
feels. Yet if it does not, there must be some time in the three weeks, between the first day
and the day of hatching, when, as a concomitant, or a consequence, of the attainment by the
brain of the chick of a certain stage of structural evolution, consciousness makes its appearance.
I have frequently expressed my incapacity to understand the nature of the relation between
consciousness and a certain anatomical tissue, which is thus established by observation. But
the fact remains that, so far as observation and experiment go, they teach us that the psychical
phenomena are dependent on the physical.

In like manner, if fishes, insects, scorpions, and such animals as the pearly nautilus, possess
feeling, then undoubtedly consciousness was present in the world as far back as the Silurian
epoch. But, if the earliest animals were similar to our rhizopods and monads, there must have
been some time, between the much earlier epoch in which they constituted the whole animal population
and the Silurian, in which feeling dawned, in consequence of the organism having reached the
stage of evolution on which it depends.

5. Consciousness has various forms, which may be manifested independently of one another. The
feelings of light and colour, of sound, of touch, though so often associated with those of
pleasure and pain, are, by nature, as entirely independent of them as is thinking. An animal
devoid of the feelings of pleasure and of pain, may nevertheless exhibit all the effects of
sensation and purposive action. Therefore, it would be a justifiable hypothesis that, long
after organic evolution had attained to consciousness, pleasure and pain were still absent.
Such a world would be without either happiness or misery; no act could be punished and none
could be rewarded; and it could have no moral purpose.

6. Suppose, for argument's sake, that all mammals and birds are subjects of pleasure and pain.
Then we may be certain that these forms of consciousness were in existence at the beginning
of the Mesozoic epoch. From that time forth, pleasure has been distributed without reference
to merit, and pain inflicted without reference to demerit, throughout all but a mere fraction
of the higher animals. Moreover, the amount and the severity of the pain, no less than the
variety and acuteness of the pleasure, have increased with every advance in the scale of evolution.
As suffering came into the world, not in consequence of a fall, but of a rise, in the scale
of being, so every further rise has brought more suffering. As the evidence stands it would
appear that the sort of brain which characterizes the highest mammals and which, so far as
we know, is the indispensable condition of the highest sensibility, did not come into existence
before the Tertiary epoch. The primordial anthropoid was probably, in this respect, on much
the same footing as his pithecoid kin. Like them he stood upon his "natural rights," gratified
all his desires to the best of his ability, and was as incapable of either right or wrong doing
as they. It would be as absurd as in their case, to regard his pleasures, any more than theirs,
as moral rewards, and his pains, any more than theirs, as moral punishments.

7. From the remotest ages of which we have any cognizance, death has been the natural and,
apparently, the necessary concomitant of life. In our hypothetical world (3), inhabited by
nothing but plants, death must have very early resulted from the struggle for existence: many
of the crowd must have jostled one another out of the conditions on which life depends. The
occurrence of death, as far back as we have any fossil record of life, however, needs not to
be proved by such arguments; for, if there had been no death there would have been no fossil
remains, such as the great majority of those we met with. Not only was there death in the world,
as far as the record of life takes us; but, ever since mammals and birds have been preyed upon
by carnivorous animals, there has been painful death, inflicted by mechanisms specially adapted
for inflicting it.

8. Those who are acquainted with the closeness of the structural relations between the human
organisation and that of the mammals which come nearest to him, on the one hand; and with the
palæontological history of such animals as horses and dogs, on the other; will not be disposed
to question the origin of man from forms which stand in the same sort of relation to Homo sapiens,
as Hipparion does to Equus. I think it a conclusion, fully justified by analogy, that, sooner
or later, we shall discover the remains of our less specialised primatic ancestors in the strata
which have yielded the less specialised equine and canine quadrupeds. At present, fossil remains
of men do not take us hack further than the later part of the Quaternary epoch; and, as was
to be expected, they do not differ more from existing men, than Quaternary horses differ from
existing horses. Still earlier we find traces of man, in implements, such as are used by the
ruder savages at the present day. Later, the remains of the palæolithic and neolithic conditions
take us gradually from the savage state to the civilizations of Egypt and of Mycenæ; though
the true chronological order of the remains actually discovered may be uncertain.

9. Much has yet to be learned, but, at present, natural knowledge affords no support to the
notion that men have fallen from a higher to a lower state. On the contrary, everything points
to a slow natural evolution; which, favoured by the surrounding conditions in such localities
as the valleys of the Yang-tse-kang, the Euphrates, and the Nile, reached a relatively high
pitch, five or six thousand years ago; while, in many other regions, the savage condition has
persisted down to our day. In all this vast lapse of time there is not a trace of the occurrence
of any general destruction of the human race; not the smallest indication that man has been
treated on any other principles than the rest of the animal world.

10. The results of the process of evolution in the case of man, and in that of his more nearly
allied contemporaries, have been marvellously different. Yet it is easy to see that small primitive
differences of a certain order, must, in the long run, bring about a wide divergence of the
human stock from the others. It is a reasonable supposition that, in the earliest human organisms,
an improved brain, a voice more capable of modulation and articulation, limbs which lent themselves
better to gesture, a more perfect hand, capable among other things of imitating form in plastic
or other material, were combined with the curiosity, the mimetic tendency, the strong family
affection of the next lower group; and that they were accompanied by exceptional length of
life and a prolonged minority. The last two peculiarities are obviously calculated to strengthen
the family organisation, and to give great weight to its educative influences. The potentiality
of language, as the vocal symbol of thought, lay in the faculty of modulating and articulating
the voice. The potentiality of writing, as the visual symbol of thought, lay in the hand that
could draw; and in the mimetic tendency, which, as we know, was gratified by drawing, as far
back as the days of Quaternary man. With speech as the record, in tradition, of the experience
of more than one generation; with writing as the record of that of any number of generations;
the experience of the race, tested and corrected generation after generation, could be stored
up and made the starting point for fresh progress. Having these perfectly natural factors of
the evolutionary process in man before us, it seems unnecessary to go further a-field in search
of others.

11. That the doctrine of evolution implies a former state of innocence of mankind is quite
true; but, as I have remarked, it is the innocence of the ape and of the tiger, whose acts,
however they may run counter to the principles of morality, it would be absurd to blame. The
lust of the one and the ferocity of the other are as much provided for in their organisation,
are as clear evidences of design, as any other features that can be named.

Observation and experiment upon the phenomena of society soon taught men that, in order to
obtain the advantages of social existence, certain rules must be observed. Morality commenced
with society. Society is possible only upon the condition that the members of it shall surrender
more or less of their individual freedom of action. In primitive societies, individual selfishness
is a centrifugal force of such intensity that it is constantly bringing the social organisation
to the verge of destruction. Hence the prominence of the positive rules of obedience to the
elders; of standing by the family or the tribe in all emergencies; of fulfilling the religious
rites, non-observance of which is conceived to damage it with the supernatural powers, belief
in whose existence is one of the earliest products of human thought; and of the negative rules
which restrain each from meddling with the life or property of another.

12. The highest conceivable form of human society is that in which the desire to do what is
best for the whole dominates and limits the action of every member of that society. The more
complex the social organisation the greater the number of acts from which each man must abstain
if he desires to do that which is best for all. Thus the progressive evolution of society means
increasing restriction of individual freedom in certain directions.

With the advance of civilisation, and the growth of cities and of nations by the coalescence
of families and of tribes, the rules which constitute the common foundation of morality and
of law became more numerous and complicated, and the temptations to break or evade many of
them stronger. In the absence of a clear apprehension of the natural sanctions of these rules,
a supernatural sanction was assumed; and imagination supplied the motives which reason was
supposed to be incompetent to furnish. Religion, at first independent of morality, gradually
took morality under its protection; and the supernaturalists have ever since tried to persuade
mankind that the existence of ethics is bound up with that of supernaturalism.

I am not of that opinion. But, whether it is correct or otherwise, it is very clear to me that,
as Beelzebub is not to be cast out by the aid of Beelzebub, so morality is not to be established
by immorality. It is, we are told, the special peculiarity of the devil that he was a liar
from the beginning. If we set out in life with pretending to know that which we do not know;
with professing to accept for proof evidence which we are well aware is inadequate; with wilfully
shutting our eyes and our ears to facts which militate against this or that comfortable hypothesis;
we are assuredly doing our best to deserve the same character.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have not the presumption to imagine that, in spite of all my efforts, errors may not have
crept into these propositions. But I am tolerably confident that time will prove them to be
substantially correct. And if they are so, I confess I do not see how any extant supernaturalistic
system can also claim exactness. That they are irreconcilable with the biblical cosmogony,
anthropology, and theodicy is obvious; but they are no less inconsistent with the sentimental
Deism of the "Vicaire Savoyard" and his numerous modern progeny. It is as impossible, to my
mind, to suppose that the evolutionary process was set going with full foreknowledge of the
result and yet with what we should understand by a purely benevolent intention, as it is to
imagine that the intention was purely malevolent. And the prevalence of dualistic theories
from the earliest times to the present day--whether in the shape of the doctrine of the inherently
evil nature of matter; of an Ahriman; of a hard and cruel Demiurge; of a diabolical "prince
of this world," show how widely this difficulty has been felt.

Many seem to think that, when it is admitted that the ancient literature, contained in our
Bibles, has no more claim to infallibility than any other ancient literature; when it is proved
that the Israelites and their Christian successors accepted a great many supernaturalistic
theories and legends which have no better foundation than those of heathenism, nothing remains
to be done but to throw the Bible aside as so much waste paper.

I have always opposed this opinion. It appears to me that if there is anybody more objectionable
than the orthodox Bibliolater it is the heterodox Philistine, who can discover in a literature
which, in some respects, has no superior, nothing but a subject for scoffing and an occasion
for the display of his conceited ignorance of the debt he owes to former generations.

Twenty-two years ago I pleaded for the use of the Bible as an instrument of popular education,
and I venture to repeat what I then said:

"Consider the great historical fact that, for three centuries, this book has been woven into
the life of all that is best and noblest in English history; that it has become the national
Epic of Britain and is as familiar to gentle and simple, from John o' Groat's House to Land's
End, as Dante and Tasso once were to the Italians; that it is written in the noblest and purest
English and abounds in exquisite beauties of mere literary form; and, finally, that it forbids
the veriest hind, who never left his village, to be ignorant of the existence of other countries
and other civilisations and of a great past, stretching back to the furthest limits of the
oldest nations in the world. By the study of what other book could children be so much humanised
and made to feel that each figure in that vast historical procession fills, like themselves,
but a momentary space in the interval between the Eternities; and earns the blessings or the
curses of all time, according to its effort to do good and hate evil, even as they also are
earning their payment for their work?"[14]

At the same time, I laid stress upon the necessity of placing such instruction in lay hands;
in the hope and belief, that it would thus gradually accommodate itself to the coming changes
of opinion; that the theology and the legend would drop more and more out of sight, while the
perennially interesting historical, literary, and ethical contents would come more and more
into view.

I may add yet another claim of the Bible to the respect and the attention of a democratic age.
Throughout the history of the western world, the Scriptures, Jewish and Christian, have been
the great instigators of revolt against the worst forms of clerical and political despotism.
The Bible has been the Magna Charta of the poor and of the oppressed; down to modern times,
no State has had a constitution in which the interests of the people are so largely taken into
account, in which the duties, so much more than the privileges, of rulers are insisted upon,
as that drawn up for Israel in Deuteronomy and in Leviticus; nowhere is the fundamental truth
that the welfare of the State, in the long run, depends on the uprightness of the citizen so
strongly laid down. Assuredly, the Bible talks no trash about the rights of man; but it insists
on the equality of duties, on the liberty to bring about that righteousness which is somewhat
different from struggling for "rights"; on the fraternity of taking thought for one's neighbour
as for one's self.

So far as such equality, liberty, and fraternity are included under the democratic principles
which assume the same names, the Bible is the most democratic book in the world. As such it
began, through the heretical sects, to undermine the clerico-political despotism of the middle
ages, almost as soon as it was formed, in the eleventh century; Pope and King had as much as
they could do to put down the Albigenses and the Waldenses in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries;
the Lollards and the Hussites gave them still more trouble in the fourteenth and fifteenth;
from the sixteenth century onward, the Protestant sects have favoured political freedom in
proportion to the degree in which they have refused to acknowledge any ultimate authority save
that of the Bible.

But the enormous influence which has thus been exerted by the Jewish and Christian Scriptures
has had no necessary connection with cosmogonies, demonologies, and miraculous interferences.
Their strength lies in their appeals, not to the reason, but to the ethical sense. I do not
say that even the highest biblical ideal is exclusive of others or needs no supplement. But
I do believe that the human race is not yet, possibly may never be, in a position to dispense
with it.

FOOTNOTES:

     [8]  With a few exceptions, which are duly noted when
          they amount to more than verbal corrections.

     [10] Declaration, Article 10.

     [13] The general reader will find an admirably clear
          and concise statement of the evidence in this case, in
          Professor Flower's recently published work The Horse:
          a Study in Natural History.

     [14] "The School Boards: What they Can do and what they
          May do," 1870. Critiques and Addresses, p. 51.

II: SCIENTIFIC AND PSEUDO-SCIENTIFIC REALISM

[1887]

Next to undue precipitation in anticipating the results of pending investigations, the intellectual
sin which is commonest and most hurtful to those who devote themselves to the increase of knowledge
is the omission to profit by the experience of their predecessors recorded in the history of
science and philosophy. It is true that, at the present day, there is more excuse than at any
former time for such neglect. No small labour is needed to raise one's self to the level of
the acquisitions already made; and able men, who have achieved thus much, know that, if they
devote themselves body and soul to the increase of their store, and avoid looking back, with
as much care as if the injunction laid on Lot and his family were binding upon them, such devotion
is sure to be richly repaid by the joys of the discoverer and the solace of fame, if not by
rewards of a less elevated character.

So, following the advice of Francis Bacon, we refuse inter mortuos quærere vivum; we leave
the past to bury its dead, and ignore our intellectual ancestry. Nor are we content with that.
We follow the evil example set us, not only by Bacon but by almost all the men of the Renaissance,
in pouring scorn upon the work of our immediate spiritual forefathers, the schoolmen of the
Middle Ages. It is accepted as a truth which is indisputable, that, for seven or eight centuries,
a long succession of able men--some of them of transcendent acuteness and encyclopædic knowledge--devoted
laborious lives to the grave discussion of mere frivolities and the arduous pursuit of intellectual
will-o'-the-wisps. To say nothing of a little modesty, a little impartial pondering over personal
experience might suggest a doubt as to the adequacy of this short and easy method of dealing
with a large chapter of the history of the human mind. Even an acquaintance with popular literature
which had extended so far as to include that part of the contributions of Sam Slick which contains
his weighty aphorism that "there is a great deal of human nature in all mankind," might raise
a doubt whether, after all, the men of that epoch, who, take them all round, were endowed with
wisdom and folly in much the same proportion as ourselves, were likely to display nothing better
than the qualities of energetic idiots, when they devoted their faculties to the elucidation
of problems which were to them, and indeed are to us, the most serious which life has to offer.
Speaking for myself, the longer I live the more I am disposed to think that there is much less
either of pure folly, or of pure wickedness, in the world than is commonly supposed. It may
be doubted if any sane man ever said to himself, "Evil, be thou my good," and I have never
yet had the good fortune to meet with a perfect fool. When I have brought to the inquiry the
patience and long-suffering which become a scientific investigator, the most promising specimens
have turned out to have a good deal to say for themselves from their own point of view. And,
sometimes, calm reflection has taught the humiliating lesson, that their point of view was
not so different from my own as I had fondly imagined. Comprehension is more than half-way
to sympathy, here as elsewhere.

If we turn our attention to scholastic philosophy in the frame of mind suggested by these prefatory
remarks, it assumes a very different character from that which it bears in general estimation.
No doubt it is surrounded by a dense thicket of thorny logomachies and obscured by the dust-clouds
of a barbarous and perplexing terminology. But suppose that, undeterred by much grime and by
many scratches, the explorer has toiled through this jungle, he comes to an open country which
is amazingly like his dear native land. The hills which he has to climb, the ravines he has
to avoid, look very much the same; there is the same infinite space above, and the same abyss
of the unknown below; the means of travelling are the same, and the goal is the same.

That goal for the schoolmen, as for us, is the settlement of the question how far the universe
is the manifestation of a rational order; in other words, how far logical deduction from indisputable
premisses will account for what which has happened and does happen. That was the object of
scholasticism, and, so far as I am aware, the object of modern science may be expressed in
the same terms. In pursuit of this end, modern science takes into account all the phenomena
of the universe which are brought to our knowledge by observation or by experiment. It admits
that there are two worlds to be considered, the one physical and the other psychical; and that
though there is a most intimate relation and interconnection between the two, the bridge from
one to the other has yet to be found; that their phenomena run, not in one series, but along
two parallel lines.

To the schoolmen the duality of the universe appeared under a different aspect. How this came
about will not be intelligible unless we clearly apprehend the fact that they did really believe
in dogmatic Christianity as it was formulated by the Roman Church. They did not give a mere
dull assent to anything the Church told them on Sundays, and ignore her teachings for the rest
of the week; but they lived and moved and had their being in that supersensible theological
world which was created, or rather grew up, during the first four centuries of our reckoning,
and which occupied their thoughts far more than the sensible world in which their earthly lot
was cast.

For the most part, we learn history from the colourless compendiums or partisan briefs of mere
scholars, who have too little acquaintance with practical life, and too little insight into
speculative problems, to understand that about which they write. In historical science, as
in all sciences which have to do with concrete phenomena, laboratory practice is indispensable;
and the laboratory practice of historical science is afforded, on the one hand, by active social
and political life, and, on the other, by the study of those tendencies and operations of the
mind which embody themselves in philosophical and theological systems. Thucydides and Tacitus,
and, to come nearer our own time, Hume and Grote, were men of affairs, and had acquired, by
direct contact with social and political history in the making, the secret of understanding
how such history is made. Our notions of the intellectual history of the middle ages are, unfortunately,
too often derived from writers who have never seriously grappled with philosophical and theological
problems: and hence that strange myth of a millennium of moonshine to which I have adverted.

However, no very profound study of the works of contemporary writers who, without devoting
themselves specially to theology or philosophy, were learned and enlightened--such men, for
example, as Eginhard or Dante--is necessary to convince one's self, that, for them, the world
of the theologian was an ever-present and awful reality. From the centre of that world, the
Divine Trinity, surrounded by a hierarchy of angels and saints, contemplated and governed the
insignificant sensible world in which the inferior spirits of men, burdened with the debasement
of their material embodiment and continually solicited to their perdition by a no less numerous
and almost as powerful hierarchy of devils, were constantly struggling on the edge of the pit
of everlasting damnation.[15]

The men of the middle ages believed that through the Scriptures, the traditions of the Fathers,
and the authority of the Church, they were in possession of far more, and more trustworthy,
information with respect to the nature and order of things in the theological world than they
had in regard to the nature and order of things in the sensible world. And, if the two sources
of information came into conflict, so much the worse for the sensible world, which, after all,
was more or less under the dominion of Satan. Let us suppose that a telescope powerful enough
to show us what is going on in the nebula of the sword of Orion, should reveal a world in which
stones fell upwards, parallel lines met, and the fourth dimension of space was quite obvious.
Men of science would have only two alternatives before them. Either the terrestrial and the
nebular facts must be brought into harmony by such feats of subtle sophistry as the human mind
is always capable of performing when driven into a corner; or science must throw down its arms
in despair, and commit suicide, either by the admission that the universe is, after all, irrational,
inasmuch as that which is truth in one corner of it is absurdity in another, or by a declaration
of incompetency.

In the middle ages, the labours of those great men who endeavoured to reconcile the system
of thought which started from the data of pure reason, with that which started from the data
of Roman theology, produced the system of thought which is known as scholastic philosophy;
the alternative of surrender and suicide is exemplified by Avicenna and his followers when
they declared that that which is true in theology may be false in philosophy, and vice versâ;
and by Sanchez in his famous defence of the thesis "Quod nil scitur."

To those who deny the validity of one of the primary assumptions of the disputants--who decline,
on the ground of the utter insufficiency of the evidence, to put faith in the reality of that
other world, the geography and the inhabitants of which are so confidently described in the
so-called[16] Christianity of Catholicism--the long and bitter contest, which engaged the best
intellects for so many centuries, may seem a terrible illustration of the wasteful way in which
the struggle for existence is carried on in the world of thought, no less than in that of matter.
But there is a more cheerful mode of looking at the history of scholasticism. It ground and
sharpened the dialectic implements of our race as perhaps nothing but discussions, in the result
of which men thought their eternal, no less than their temporal, interests were at stake, could
have done. When a logical blunder may ensure combustion, not only in the next world but in
this, the construction of syllogisms acquires a peculiar interest. Moreover, the schools kept
the thinking faculty alive and active, when the disturbed state of civil life, the mephitic
atmosphere engendered by the dominant ecclesiasticism, and the almost total neglect of natural
knowledge, might well have stifled it. And, finally, it should be remembered that scholasticism
really did thresh out pretty effectually certain problems which have presented themselves to
mankind ever since they began to think, and which, I suppose, will present themselves so long
as they continue to think. Consider, for example, the controversy of the Realists and the Nominalists,
which was carried on with varying fortunes, and under various names, from the time of Scotus
Erigena to the end of the scholastic period. Has it now a merely antiquarian interest? Has
Nominalism, in any of its modifications, so completely won the day that Realism may be regarded
as dead and buried without hope of resurrection? Many people seem to think so, but it appears
to me that, without taking Catholic philosophy into consideration, one has not to look about
far to find evidence that Realism is still to the fore, and indeed extremely lively.[17]

       *       *       *       *       *

The other day I happened to meet with a report of a sermon recently preached in St. Paul's
Cathedral. From internal evidence I am inclined to think that the report is substantially correct.
But as I have not the slightest intention of finding fault with the eminent theologian and
eloquent preacher to whom the discourse is attributed, for employment of scientific language
in a manner for which he could find only too many scientific precedents, the accuracy of the
report in detail is not to the purpose. I may safely take it as the embodiment of views which
are thought to be quite in accordance with science by many excellent, instructed, and intelligent
people.

     The preacher further contended that it was yet more
     difficult to realise that our earthly home would become the
     scene of a vast physical catastrophe. Imagination recoils
     from the idea that the course of nature--the phrase helps to
     disguise the truth--so unvarying and regular, the ordered
     sequence of movement and life, should suddenly cease.
     Imagination looks more reasonable when it assumes the air of
     scientific reason. Physical law, it says, will prevent the
     occurrence of catastrophes only anticipated by an apostle in
     an unscientific age. Might not there, however, be a
     suspension of a lower law by the intervention of a higher?
     Thus every time we lifted our arms we defied the laws of
     gravitation, and in railways and steamboats powerful laws
     were held in check by others. The flood and the destruction
     of Sodom and Gomorrah were brought about by the operation of
     existing laws, and may it not be that in His illimitable
     universe there are more important laws than those which
     surround our puny life--moral and not merely physical
     forces? Is it inconceivable that the day will come when
     these royal and ultimate laws shall wreck the natural order
     of things which seems so stable and so fair? Earthquakes
     were not things of remote antiquity, as an island off Italy,
     the Eastern Archipelago, Greece, and Chicago bore
     witness.... In presence of a great earthquake men feel how
     powerless they are, and their very knowledge adds to their
     weakness. The end of human probation, the final dissolution
     of organised society, and the destruction of man's home on
     the surface of the globe, were none of them violently
     contrary to our present experience, but only the extension
     of present facts. The presentiment of death was common;
     there were felt to be many things which threatened the
     existence of society; and as our globe was a ball of fire,
     at any moment the pent-up forces which surge and boil
     beneath our feet might be poured out ("Pall Mall Gazette,"
     December 6, 1886).

The preacher appears to entertain the notion that the occurrence of a "catastrophe"[18] involves
a breach of the present order of nature--that it is an event incompatible with the physical
laws which at present obtain. He seems to be of opinion that "scientific reason" lends its
authority to the imaginative supposition that physical law will prevent the occurrence of the
"catastrophes" anticipated by an unscientific apostle.

Scientific reason, like Homer, sometimes nods; but I am not aware that it has ever dreamed
dreams of this sort. The fundamental axiom of scientific thought is that there is not, never
has been, and never will be, any disorder in nature. The admission of the occurrence of any
event which was not the logical consequence of the immediately antecedent events, according
to these definite, ascertained, or unascertained rules which we call the "laws of nature,"
would be an act of self-destruction on the part of science.

"Catastrophe" is a relative conception. For ourselves it means an event which brings about
very terrible consequences to man, or impresses his mind by its magnitude relatively to him.
But events which are quite in the natural order of things to us, may be frightful catastrophes
to other sentient beings. Surely no interruption of the order of nature is involved if, in
the course of descending through an Alpine pine-wood, I jump upon an anthill and in a moment
wreck a whole city and destroy a hundred thousand of its inhabitants. To the ants the catastrophe
is worse than the earthquake of Lisbon. To me it is the natural and necessary consequence of
the laws of matter in motion. A redistribution of energy has taken place, which is perfectly
in accordance with natural order, however unpleasant its effects may be to the ants.

Imagination, inspired by scientific reason, and not merely assuming the airs thereof, as it
unfortunately too often does in the pulpit, so far from having any right to repudiate catastrophes
and deny the possibility of the cessation of motion and life, easily finds justification for
the exactly contrary course. Kant in his famous "Theory of the Heavens" declares the end of
the world and its reduction to a formless condition to be a necessary consequence of the causes
to which it owes its origin and continuance. And, as to catastrophes of prodigious magnitude
and frequent occurrence, they were the favourite asylum ignorantiæ of geologists, not a quarter
of a century ago. If modern geology is becoming more and more disinclined to call in catastrophes
to its aid, it is not because of any a priori difficulty in reconciling the occurrence of such
events with the universality of order, but because the a posteriori evidence of the occurrence
of events of this character in past times has more or less completely broken down.

It is, to say the least, highly probable that this earth is a mass of extremely hot matter,
invested by a cooled crust, through which the hot interior still continues to cool, though
with extreme slowness. It is no less probable that the faults and dislocations, the foldings
and fractures, everywhere visible in the stratified crust, its large and slow movements through
miles of elevation and depression, and its small and rapid movements which give rise to the
innumerable perceived and unperceived earthquakes which are constantly occurring, are due to
the shrinkage of the crust on its cooling and contracting nucleus.

Without going beyond the range of fair scientific analogy, conditions are easily conceivable
which should render the loss of heat far more rapid than it is at present; and such an occurrence
would be just as much in accordance with ascertained laws of nature, as the more rapid cooling
of a red-hot bar, when it is thrust into cold water, than when it remains in the air. But much
more rapid cooling might entail a shifting and rearrangement of the parts of the crust of the
earth on a scale of unprecedented magnitude, and bring about "catastrophes" to which the earthquake
of Lisbon is but a trifle. It is conceivable that man and his works and all the higher forms
of animal life should be utterly destroyed; that mountain regions should he converted into
ocean depths and the floor of oceans raised into mountains; and the earth become a scene of
horror which even the lurid fancy of the writer of the Apocalypse would fail to portray. And
yet, to the eye of science, there would he no more disorder here than in the sabbatical peace
of a summer sea. Not a link in the chain of natural causes and effects would he broken, nowhere
would there be the slightest indication of the "suspension of a lower law by a higher." If
a sober scientific thinker is inclined to put little faith in the wild vaticinations of universal
ruin which, in a less saintly person than the seer of Patmos, might seem to be dictated by
the fury of a revengeful fanatic, rather than by the spirit of the teacher who bid men love
their enemies, it is not on the ground that they contradict scientific principles; but because
the evidence of their scientific value does not fulfil the conditions on which weight is attached
to evidence. The imagination which supposes that it does, simply does not "assume the air of
scientific reason."

I repeat that, if imagination is used within the limits laid down by science, disorder is unimaginable.
If a being endowed with perfect intellectual and æsthetic faculties, but devoid of the capacity
for suffering pain, either physical or moral, were to devote his utmost powers to the investigation
of nature, the universe would seem to him to be a sort of kaleidoscope, in which, at every
successive moment of time, a new arrangement of parts of exquisite beauty and symmetry would
present itself; and each of them would show itself to be the logical consequence of the preceding
arrangement, under the conditions which we call the laws of nature. Such a spectator might
well be filled with that Amor intellectualis Dei, the beatific vision of the vita contemplativa,
which some of the greatest thinkers of all ages, Aristotle, Aquinas, Spinoza, have regarded
as the only conceivable eternal felicity; and the vision of illimitable suffering, as if sensitive
beings were unregarded animalcules which had got between the bits of glass of the kaleidoscope,
which mars the prospect to us poor mortals, in no wise alters the fact that order is lord of
all, and disorder only a name for that part of the order which gives us pain.

The other fallacious employment of the names of scientific conceptions which pervades the preacher's
utterance, brings me back to the proper topic of the present essay. It is the use of the word
"law" as if it denoted a thing--as if a "law of nature," as science understands it, were a
being endowed with certain powers, in virtue of which the phenomena expressed by that law are
brought about. The preacher asks, "Might not there be a suspension of a lower law by the intervention
of a higher?" He tells us that every time we lift our arms we defy the law of gravitation.
He asks whether some day certain "royal and ultimate laws" may not come and "wreck" those laws
which are at present, it would appear, acting as nature's police. It is evident, from these
expressions, that "laws," in the mind of the preacher, are entities having an objective existence
in a graduated hierarchy. And it would appear that the "royal laws" are by no means to be regarded
as constitutional royalties: at any moment, they may, like Eastern despots, descend in wrath
among the middle-class and plebeian laws, which have hitherto done the drudgery of the world's
work, and, to use phraseology not unknown in our seats of learning--"make hay" of their belongings.
Or perhaps a still more familiar analogy has suggested this singular theory; and it is thought
that high laws may "suspend" low laws, as a bishop may suspend a curate.

Far be it from me to controvert these views, if any one likes to hold them. All I wish to remark
is that such a conception of the nature of "laws" has nothing to do with modern science. It
is scholastic realism--realism as intense and unmitigated as that of Scotus Erigena a thousand
years ago. The essence of such realism is that it maintains the objective existence of universals,
or, as we call them nowadays, general propositions. It affirms, for example, that "man" is
a real thing, apart from individual men, having its existence, not in the sensible, but in
the intelligible world, and clothing itself with the accidents of sense to make the Jack and
Tom and Harry whom we know. Strange as such a notion may appear to modern scientific thought,
it really pervades ordinary language. There are few people who would, at once, hesitate to
admit that colour, for example, exists apart from the mind which conceives the idea of colour.
They hold it to be something which resides in the coloured object; and so far they are as much
Realists as if they had sat at Plato's feet. Reflection on the facts of the case must, I imagine,
convince every one that "colour" is--not a mere name, which was the extreme Nominalist position--but
a name for that group of states of feeling which we call blue, red, yellow, and so on, and
which we believe to be caused by luminiferous vibrations which have not the slightest resemblance
to colour; while these again are set afoot by states of the body to which we ascribe colour,
but which are equally devoid of likeness to colour.

In the same way, a law of nature, in the scientific sense, is the product of a mental operation
upon the facts of nature which come under our observation, and has no more existence outside
the mind than colour has. The law of gravitation is a statement of the manner in which experience
shows that bodies, which are free to move, do, in fact, move towards one another. But the other
facts of observation, that bodies are not always moving in this fashion, and sometimes move
in a contrary direction, are implied in the words "free to move." If it is a law of nature
that bodies tend to move towards one another in a certain way; it is another and no less true
law of nature that, if bodies are not free to move as they tend to do, either in consequence
of an obstacle, or of a contrary impulse from some other source of energy than that to which
we give the name of gravitation, they either stop still, or go another way.

Scientifically speaking, it is the acme of absurdity to talk of a man defying the law of gravitation
when he lifts his arm. The general store of energy in the universe working through terrestrial
matter is doubtless tending to bring the man's arm down; but the particular fraction of that
energy which is working through certain of his nervous and muscular organs is tending to drive
it up, and more energy being expended on the arm in the upward than in the downward direction,
the arm goes up accordingly. But the law of gravitation is no more defied, in this case, than
when a grocer throws so much sugar into the empty pan of his scales that the one which contains
the weight kicks the beam.

The tenacity of the wonderful fallacy that the laws of nature are agents, instead of being,
as they really are, a mere record of experience, upon which we base our interpretations of
that which does happen, and our anticipation of that which will happen, is an interesting psychological
fact; and would be unintelligible if the tendency of the human mind towards realism were less
strong.

Even at the present day, and in the writings of men who would at once repudiate scholastic
realism in any form, "law" is often inadvertently employed in the sense of cause, just as,
in common life, a man will say that he is compelled by the law to do so and so, when, in point
of fact, all he means is that the law orders him to do it, and tells him what will happen if
he does not do it. We commonly hear of bodies falling to the ground by reason of the law of
gravitation, whereas that law is simply the record of the fact that, according to all experience,
they have so fallen (when free to move), and of the grounds of a reasonable expectation that
they will so fall. If it should be worth anybody's while to seek for examples of such misuse
of language on my own part, I am not at all sure he might not succeed, though I have usually
been on my guard against such looseness of expression. If I am guilty, I do penance beforehand,
and only hope that I may thereby deter others from committing the like fault. And I venture
on this personal observation by way of showing that I have no wish to bear hardly on the preacher
for falling into an error for which he might find good precedents. But it is one of those errors
which, in the case of a person engaged in scientific pursuits, do little harm, because it is
corrected as soon as its consequences become obvious; while those who know physical science
only by name are, as has been seen, easily led to build a mighty fabric of unrealities on this
fundamental fallacy. In fact, the habitual use of the word "law," in the sense of an active
thing, is almost a mark of pseudo-science; it characterises the writings of those who have
appropriated the forms of science without knowing anything of its substance.

There are two classes of these people: those who are ready to believe in any miracle so long
as it is guaranteed by ecclesiastical authority; and those who are ready to believe in any
miracle so long as it has some different guarantee. The believers in what are ordinarily called
miracles--those who accept the miraculous narratives which they are taught to think are essential
elements of religious doctrine--are in the one category; the spirit-rappers, table-turners,
and all the other devotees of the occult sciences of our day are in the other: and, if they
disagree in most things they agree in this, namely, that they ascribe to science a dictum that
is not scientific; and that they endeavour to upset the dictum thus foisted on science by a
realistic argument which is equally unscientific.

It is asserted, for example, that, on a particular occasion, water was turned into wine; and,
on the other hand, it is asserted that a man or a woman "levitated" to the ceiling, floated
about there, and finally sailed out by the window. And it is assumed that the pardonable scepticism,
with which most scientific men receive these statements, is due to the fact that they feel
themselves justified in denying the possibility of any such metamorphosis of water, or of any
such levitation, because such events are contrary to the laws of nature. So the question of
the preacher is triumphantly put: How do you know that there are not "higher" laws of nature
than your chemical and physical laws, and that these higher laws may not intervene and "wreck"
the latter?

The plain answer to this question is, Why should anybody be called upon to say how he knows
that which he does not know? You are assuming that laws are agents--efficient causes of that
which happens--and that one law can interfere with another. To us, that assumption is as nonsensical
as if you were to talk of a proposition of Euclid being the cause of the diagram which illustrates
it, or of the integral calculus interfering with the rule of three. Your question really implies
that we pretend to complete knowledge not only of all past and present phenomena, but of all
that are possible in the future, and we leave all that sort of thing to the adepts of esoteric
Buddhism. Our pretensions are infinitely more modest. We have succeeded in finding out the
rules of action of a little bit of the universe; we call these rules "laws of nature," not
because anybody knows whether they bind nature or not, but because we find it is obligatory
on us to take them into account, both as actors under nature, and as interpreters of nature.
We have any quantity of genuine miracles of our own, and if you will furnish us with as good
evidence of your miracles as we have of ours, we shall be quite happy to accept them and to
amend our expression of the laws of nature in accordance with the new facts.

As to the particular cases adduced, we are so perfectly fair-minded as to be willing to help
your case as far as we can. You are quite mistaken in supposing that anybody who is acquainted
with the possibilities of physical science will undertake categorically to deny that water
may be turned into wine. Many very competent judges are already inclined to think that the
bodies, which we have hitherto called elementary, are really composite arrangements of the
particles of a uniform primitive matter. Supposing that view to be correct, there would be
no more theoretical difficulty about turning water into alcohol, ethereal and colouring matters,
than there is, at this present moment, any practical difficulty in working other such miracles;
as when we turn sugar into alcohol, carbonic acid, glycerine, and succinic acid; or transmute
gas-refuse into perfumes rarer than musk and dyes richer than Tyrian purple. If the so-called
"elements," oxygen and hydrogen, which compose water, are aggregates of the same ultimate particles,
or physical units, as those which enter into the structure of the so-called element "carbon,"
it is obvious that alcohol and other substances, composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen,
may be produced by a rearrangement of some of the units of oxygen and hydrogen into the "element"
carbon, and their synthesis with the rest of the oxygen and hydrogen.

Theoretically, therefore, we can have no sort of objection to your miracle. And our reply to
the levitators is just the same. Why should not your friend "levitate"? Fish are said to rise
and sink in the water by altering the volume of an internal air-receptacle; and there may be
many ways science, as yet, knows nothing of, by which we, who live at the bottom of an ocean
of air, may do the same thing. Dialectic gas and wind appear to be by no means wanting among
you, and why should not long practice in pneumatic philosophy have resulted in the internal
generation of something a thousand times rarer than hydrogen, by which, in accordance with
the most ordinary natural laws, you would not only rise to the ceiling and float there in quasi-angelic
posture, but perhaps, as one of your feminine adepts is said to have done, flit swifter than
train or telegram to "still-vexed Bermoothes," and twit Ariel, if he happens to be there, for
a sluggard? We have not the presumption to deny the possibility of anything you affirm; only,
as our brethren are particular about evidence, do give us as much to go upon as may save us
from being roared down by their inextinguishable laughter.

Enough of the realism which clings about "laws." There are plenty of other exemplifications
of its vitality in modern science, but I will cite only one of them.

This is the conception of "vital force" which comes straight from the philosophy of Aristotle.
It is a fundamental proposition of that philosophy that a natural object is composed of two
constituents--the one its matter, conceived as inert or even, to a certain extent, opposed
to orderly and purposive motion; the other its form, conceived as a quasi-spiritual something,
containing or conditioning the actual activities of the body and the potentiality of its possible
activities.

I am disposed to think that the prominence of this conception in Aristotle's theory of things
arose from the circumstance that he was to begin with and throughout his life, devoted to biological
studies. In fact it is a notion which must force itself upon the mind of any one who studies
biological phenomena, without reference to general physics, as they now stand. Everybody who
observes the obvious phenomena of the development of a seed into a tree, or of an egg into
an animal, will note that a relatively formless mass of matter gradually grows, takes a definite
shape and structure, and, finally, begins to perform actions which contribute towards a certain
end, namely, the maintenance of the individual in the first place, and of the species in the
second. Starting from the axiom that every event has a cause, we have here the causa finalis
manifested in the last set of phenomena, the causa materialis and formalis in the first, while
the existence of a causa efficiens within the seed or egg and its product, is a corollary from
the phenomena of growth and metamorphosis, which proceed in unbroken succession and make up
the life of the animal or plant.

Thus, at starting, the egg or seed is matter having a "form" like all other material bodies.
But this form has the peculiarity, in contradistinction to lower substantial "forms," that
it is a power which constantly works towards an end by means of living organisation.

So far as I know, Leibnitz is the only philosopher (at the same time a man of science, in the
modern sense, of the first rank) who has noted that the modern conception of Force, as a sort
of atmosphere enveloping the particles of bodies, and having potential or actual activity,
is simply a new name for the Aristotelian Form.[19] In modern biology, up till within quite
recent times, the Aristotelian conception held undisputed sway; living matter was endowed with
"vital force," and that accounted for everything. Whosoever was not satisfied with that explanation
was treated to that very "plain argument"--"confound you eternally"--wherewith Lord Peter overcomes
the doubts of his brothers in the "Tale of a Tub." "Materialist" was the mildest term applied
to him--fortunate if he escaped pelting with "infidel" and "atheist." There may be scientific
Rip Van Winkles about, who still hold by vital force; but among those biologists who have not
been asleep for the last quarter of a century "vital force" no longer figures in the vocabulary
of science. It is a patent survival of realism; the generalisation from experience that all
living bodies exhibit certain activities of a definite character is made the basis of the notion
that every living body contains an entity, "vital force," which is assumed to be the cause
of those activities.

It is remarkable, in looking back, to notice to what an extent this and other survivals of
scholastic realism arrested or, at any rate, impeded the application of sound scientific principles
to the investigation of biological phenomena. When I was beginning to think about these matters,
the scientific world was occasionally agitated by discussions respecting the nature of the
"species" and "genera" of Naturalists, of a different order from the disputes of a later time.
I think most were agreed that a "species" was something which existed objectively, somehow
or other, and had been created by a Divine fiat. As to the objective reality of genera, there
was a good deal of difference of opinion. On the other hand, there were a few who could see
no objective reality in anything but individuals, and looked upon both species and genera as
hypostatised universals. As for myself, I seem to have unconsciously emulated William of Occam,
inasmuch as almost the first public discourse I ever ventured upon, dealt with "Animal Individuality,"
and its tendency was to fight the Nominalist battle even in that quarter.

Realism appeared in still stranger forms at the time to which I refer. The community of plan
which is observable in each great group of animals was hypostatised into a Platonic idea with
the appropriate name of "archetype," and we were told, as a disciple of Philo-Judæus might
have told us, that this realistic figment was "the archetypal light" by which Nature has been
guided amidst the "wreck of worlds." So, again, another naturalist, who had no less earned
a well-deserved reputation by his contributions to positive knowledge, put forward a theory
of the production of living things which, as nearly as the increase of knowledge allowed, was
a reproduction of the doctrine inculcated by the Jewish Cabbala.

Annexing the archetype notion, and carrying it to its full logical consequence, the author
of this theory conceived that the species of animals and plants were so many incarnations of
the thoughts of God--material representations of Divine ideas--during the particular period
of the world's history at which they existed. But, under the influence of the embryological
and palæontological discoveries of modern times, which had already lent some scientific support
to the revived ancient theories of cosmical evolution or emanation, the ingenious author of
this speculation, while denying and repudiating the ordinary theory of evolution by successive
modification of individuals, maintained and endeavoured to prove the occurrence of a progressive
modification in the divine ideas of successive epochs.

On the foundation of a supposed elevation of organisation in the whole living population of
any epoch, as compared with that of its predecessor, and a supposed complete difference in
species between the populations of any two epochs (neither of which suppositions has stood
the test of further inquiry), the author of this speculation based his conclusion that the
Creator had, so to speak, improved upon his thoughts as time went on; and that, as each such
amended scheme of creation came up, the embodiment of the earlier divine thoughts was swept
away by a universal catastrophe, and an incarnation of the improved ideas took its place. Only
after the last such "wreck" thus brought about, did the embodiment of a divine thought, in
the shape of the first man, make its appearance as the ne plus ultra of the cosmogonical process.

I imagine that Louis Agassiz, the genial backwoodsman of the science of my young days, who
did more to open out new tracks in the scientific forest than most men, would have been much
surprised to learn that he was preaching the doctrine of the Cabbala, pure and simple. According
to this modification of Neoplatonism by contact with Hebrew speculation, the divine essence
is unknowable--without form or attribute; but the interval between it and the world of sense
is filled by intelligible entities, which are nothing but the familiar hypostatised abstractions
of the realists. These have emanated, like immense waves of light, from the divine centre,
and, as ten consecutive zones of Sephiroth, form the universe. The farther away from the centre,
the more the primitive light wanes, until the periphery ends in those mere negations, darkness
and evil, which are the essence of matter. On this, the divine agency transmitted through the
Sephiroth operates after the fashion of the Aristotelian forms, and, at first, produces the
lowest of a series of worlds. After a certain duration the primitive world is demolished and
its fragments used up in making a better; and this process is repeated, until at length a final
world, with man for its crown and finish, makes its appearance. It is needless to trace the
process of retrogressive metamorphosis by which, through the agency of the Messiah, the steps
of the process of evolution here sketched are retraced. Sufficient has been said to prove that
the extremist realism current in the philosophy of the thirteenth century can be fully matched
by the speculations of our own time.

FOOTNOTES:

     [15] There is no exaggeration in this brief and summary view
          of the Catholic cosmos. But it would be unfair to leave it
          to be supposed that the Reformation made any essential
          alteration, except perhaps for the worse, in that cosmology
          which called itself "Christian." The protagonist of the
          Reformation, from whom the whole of the Evangelical sects
          are lineally descended, states the case with that plainness
          of speech, not to say brutality, which characterised him.
          Luther says that man is a beast of burden who only moves as
          his rider orders; sometimes God rides him, and sometimes
          Satan. "Sic voluntas humana in medio posita est, ceu
          jumentum; si insederit Deus, vult et vadit, quo vult
          Deus.... Si insederit Satan, vult et vadit, quo vult Satan;
          nec est in ejus arbitrio ad utrum sessorem currere, aut eum
          quærere, sed ipsi sessores certant ob ipsum obtinendum et
          possidendum" (De Servo Arbitrio, M. Lutheri Opera, ed.
          1546, t. ii. p. 468). One may hear substantially the same
          doctrine preached in the parks and at street-corners by
          zealous volunteer missionaries of Evangelicism, any Sunday,
          in modern London. Why these doctrines, which are conspicuous
          by their absence in the four Gospels, should arrogate to
          themselves the title of Evangelical, in contradistinction to
          Catholic, Christianity, may well perplex the impartial
          inquirer, who, if he were obliged to choose between the two,
          might naturally prefer that which leaves the poor beast of
          burden a little freedom of choice.

     [16] I say "so-called" not by way of offence, but as a
          protest against the monstrous assumption that Catholic
          Christianity is explicitly or implicitly contained in any
          trustworthy record of the teaching of Jesus of Nazareth.

     [17] It may be desirable to observe that, in modern times,
          the term "Realism" has acquired a signification wholly
          different from that which attached to it in the middle ages.
          We commonly use it as the contrary of Idealism. The Idealist
          holds that the phenomenal world has only a subjective
          existence, the Realist that it has an objective existence. I
          am not aware that any mediæval philosopher was an Idealist
          in the sense in which we apply the term to Berkeley. In
          fact, the cardinal defect of their speculations lies in
          their oversight of the considerations which lead to
          Idealism. If many of them regarded the material world as a
          negation, it was an active negation; not zero, but a minus
          quantity.

     [18] At any rate a catastrophe greater than the flood,
          which, as I observe with interest, is as calmly assumed by
          the preacher to be an historical event as if science had
          never had a word to say on that subject!

     [19] "Les formes des anciens ou Entéléchies ne sont autre
          chose que les forces" (Leibnitz, Lettre au Père Bouvet,
          1697).

III: SCIENCE AND PSEUDO-SCIENCE

[1887]

In the opening sentences of a contribution to the last number of this Review,[20] the Duke
of Argyll has favoured me with a lecture on the proprieties of controversy, to which I should
be disposed to listen with more docility if his Grace's precepts appeared to me to be based
upon rational principles, or if his example were more exemplary.

With respect to the latter point, the Duke has thought fit to entitle his article "Professor
Huxley on Canon Liddon," and thus forces into prominence an element of personality, which those
who read the paper which is the object of the Duke's animadversions will observe I have endeavoured,
most carefully, to avoid. My criticisms dealt with a report of a sermon, published in a newspaper,
and thereby addressed to all the world. Whether that sermon was preached by A or B was not
a matter of the smallest consequence; and I went out of my way to absolve the learned divine
to whom the discourse was attributed from the responsibility for statements which, for anything
I knew to the contrary, might contain imperfect, or inaccurate, representations of his views.
The assertion that I had the wish, or was beset, by any "temptation to attack" Canon Liddon
is simply contrary to fact.

But suppose that if, instead of sedulously avoiding even the appearance of such attack, I had
thought fit to take a different course; suppose that, after satisfying myself that the eminent
clergyman whose name is paraded by the Duke of Argyll had really uttered the words attributed
to him from the pulpit of St. Paul's, what right would any one have to find fault with my action
on grounds either of justice, expediency, or good taste?

Establishment has its duties as well as its rights. The clergy of a State Church enjoy many
advantages over those of unprivileged and unendowed religious persuasions; but they lie under
a correlative responsibility to the State, and to every member of the body politic. I am not
aware that any sacredness attaches to sermons. If preachers stray beyond the doctrinal limits
set by lay lawyers, the Privy Council will see to it; and, if they think fit to use their pulpits
for the promulgation of literary, or historical, or scientific errors, it is not only the right,
but the duty, of the humblest layman, who may happen to be better informed, to correct the
evil effects of such perversion of the opportunities which the State affords them; and such
misuse of the authority which its support lends them. Whatever else it may claim to be, in
its relations with the State, the Established Church is a branch of the Civil Service; and,
for those who repudiate the ecclesiastical authority of the clergy, they are merely civil servants,
as much responsible to the English people for the proper performance of their duties as any others.

The Duke of Argyll tells us that the "work and calling" of the clergy prevent them from "pursuing
disputation as others can." I wonder if his Grace ever reads the so-called "religious" newspapers.
It is not an occupation which I should commend to any one who wishes to employ his time profitably;
but a very short devotion to this exercise will suffice to convince him that the "pursuit of
disputation," carried to a degree of acrimony and vehemence unsurpassed in lay controversies,
seems to be found quite compatible with the "work and calling" of a remarkably large number
of the clergy.

Finally, it appears to me that nothing can be in worse taste than the assumption that a body
of English gentlemen can, by any possibility, desire that immunity from criticism which the
Duke of Argyll claims for them. Nothing would be more personally offensive to me than the supposition
that I shirked criticism, just or unjust, of any lecture I ever gave. I should be utterly ashamed
of myself if, when I stood up as an instructor of others, I had not taken every pains to assure
myself of the truth of that which I was about to say; and I should feel myself bound to be
even more careful with a popular assembly, who would take me more or less on trust, than with
an audience of competent and critical experts.

I decline to assume that the standard of morality, in these matters, is lower among the clergy
than it is among scientific men. I refuse to think that the priest who stands up before a congregation,
as the minister and interpreter of the Divinity, is less careful in his utterances, less ready
to meet adverse comment, than the layman who comes before his audience, as the minister and
interpreter of nature. Yet what should we think of the man of science who, when his ignorance
or his carelessness was exposed, whined about the want of delicacy of his critics, or pleaded
his "work and calling" as a reason for being let alone?

No man, nor any body of men, is good enough, or wise enough, to dispense with the tonic of
criticism. Nothing has done more harm to the clergy than the practice, too common among laymen,
of regarding them, when in the pulpit, as a sort of chartered libertines, whose divagations
are not to be taken seriously. And I am well assured that the distinguished divine, to whom
the sermon is attributed, is the last person who would desire to avail himself of the dishonouring
protection which has been superfluously thrown over him.

So much for the lecture on propriety. But the Duke of Argyll, to whom the hortatory style seems
to come naturally, does me the honour to make my sayings the subjects of a series of other
admonitions, some on philosophical, some on, geological, some on biological topics. I can but
rejoice that the Duke's authority in these matters is not always employed to show that I am
ignorant of them; on the contrary, I meet with an amount of agreement, even of approbation,
for which I proffer such gratitude as may be due, even if that gratitude is sometimes almost
overshadowed by surprise.

I am unfeignedly astonished to find that the Duke of Argyll, who professes to intervene on
behalf of the preacher, does really, like another Balaam, bless me altogether in respect of
the main issue.

I denied the justice of the preacher's ascription to men of science of the doctrine that miracles
are incredible, because they are violations of natural law; and the Duke of Argyll says that
he believes my "denial to be well-founded. The preacher was answering an objection which has
now been generally abandoned." Either the preacher knew this or he did not know it. It seems
to me, as a mere lay teacher, to be a pity that the "great dome of St. Paul's" should have
been made to "echo" (if so be that such stentorian effects were really produced) a statement
which, admitting the first alternative, was unfair, and, admitting the second, was ignorant.[21]

Having thus sacrified one half of the preacher's arguments, the Duke of Argyll proceeds to
make equally short work with the other half. It appears that he fully accepts my position that
the occurrence of those events, which the preacher speaks of as catastrophes, is no evidence
of disorder, inasmuch as such catastrophes may be necessary occasional consequences of uniform
changes. Whence I conclude, his Grace agrees with me, that the talk about royal laws "wrecking"
ordinary laws may be eloquent metaphor, but is also nonsense.

And now comes a further surprise. After having given these superfluous stabs to the slain body
of the preacher's argument, my good ally remarks, with magnificent calmness: "So far, then,
the preacher and the professor are at one." "Let them smoke the calumet." By all means: smoke
would be the most appropriate symbol of this wonderful attempt to cover a retreat. After all,
the Duke has come to bury the preacher, not to praise him; only he makes the funeral obsequies
look as much like a triumphal procession as possible.

So far as the questions between the preacher and myself are concerned, then, I may feel happy.
The authority of the Duke of Argyll is ranged on my side. But the Duke has raised a number
of other questions, with respect to which I fear I shall have to dispense with his support--nay,
even be compelled to differ from him as much, or more, than I have done about his Grace's new
rendering of the "benefit of clergy."

In discussing catastrophes, the Duke indulges in statements, partly scientific, partly anecdotic,
which appear to me to be somewhat misleading. We are told, to begin with, that Sir Charles
Lyell's doctrine respecting the proper mode of interpreting the facts of geology (which is
commonly called uniformitarianism) "does not hold its head quite so high as it once did." That
is great news indeed. But is it true? All I can say is that I am aware of nothing that has
happened of late that can in any way justify it; and my opinion is, that the body of Lyell's
doctrine, as laid down in that great work, "The Principles of Geology," whatever may have happened
to its head, is a chief and permanent constituent of the foundations of geological science.

But this question cannot he advantageously discussed, unless we take some pains to discriminate
between the essential part of the uniformitarian doctrine and its accessories; and it does
not appear that the Duke of Argyll has carried his studies of geological philosophy so far
as this point. For he defines uniformitarianism to be the assumption of the "extreme slowness
and perfect continuity of all geological changes."

What "perfect continuity" may mean in this definition, I am by no means sure; but I can only
imagine that it signifies the absence of any break in the course of natural order during the
millions of years, the lapse of which is recorded by geological phenomena.

Is the Duke of Argyll prepared to say that any geologist of authority, at the present day,
believes that there is the slightest evidence of the occurrence of supernatural intervention,
during the long ages of which the monuments are preserved to us in the crust of the earth?
And if he is not, in what sense has this part of the uniformitarian doctrine, as he defines
it, lowered its pretensions to represent scientific truth?

As to the "extreme slowness of all geological changes," it is simply a popular error to regard
that as, in any wise, a fundamental and necessary dogma of uniformitarianism. It is extremely
astonishing to me that any one who has carefully studied Lyell's great work can have so completely
failed to appreciate its purport, which yet is "writ large" on the very title-page: "The Principles
of Geology, being an attempt to explain the former changes of the earth's surface by reference
to causes now in operation." The essence of Lyell's doctrine is here written so that those
who run may read; and it has nothing to do with the quickness or slowness of the past changes
of the earth's surface; except in so far as existing analogous changes may go on slowly, and
therefore create a presumption in favour of the slowness of past changes.

With that epigrammatic force which characterises his style, Buffon wrote, nearly a hundred
and fifty years ago, in his famous "Théorie de la Terre": "Pour juger de ce qui est arrivé,
et même de ce qui arrivera, nous n'avons qu'à examiner ce qui arrive." The key of the past,
as of the future, is to be sought in the present; and, only when known causes of change have
been shown to be insufficient, have we any right to have recourse to unknown causes. Geology
is as much a historical science as archæology; and I apprehend that all sound historical investigation
rests upon this axiom. It underlay all Hutton's work and animated Lyell and Scope in their
successful efforts to revolutionise the geology of half a century ago.

There is no antagonism whatever, and there never was, between the belief in the views which
had their chief and unwearied advocate in Lyell and the belief in the occurrence of catastrophes.
The first edition of Lyell's "Principles," published in 1830, lies before me; and a large part
of the first volume is occupied by an account of volcanic, seismic, and diluvial catastrophes
which have occurred within the historical period. Moreover, the author, over and over again,
expressly draws the attention of his readers to the consistency of catastrophes with his doctrine.

     Notwithstanding, therefore, that we have not witnessed
     within the last three thousand years the devastation by
     deluge of a large continent, yet, as we may predict the
     future occurrence of such catastrophes, we are authorized to
     regard them as part of the present order of nature, and they
     may be introduced into geological speculations respecting
     the past, provided that we do not imagine them to have been
     more frequent or general than we expect them to be in time
     to come (vol. i. p. 89).

Again:--

     If we regard each of the causes separately, which we know to
     be at present the most instrumental in remodelling the state
     of the surface, we shall find that we must expect each to
     be in action for thousands of years, without producing any
     extensive alterations in the habitable surface, and then to
     give rise, during a very brief period, to important
     revolutions (vol. ii. p. 161).[22]

Lyell quarrelled with the catastrophists then, by no means because they assumed that catastrophes
occur and have occurred, but because they had got into the habit of calling on their god Catastrophe
to help them, when they ought to have been putting their shoulders to the wheel of observation
of the present course of nature, in order to help themselves out of their difficulties. And
geological science has become what it is, chiefly because geologists have gradually accepted
Lyell's doctrine and followed his precepts.

So far as I know anything about the matter, there is nothing that can be called proof, that
the causes of geological phenomena operated more intensely or more rapidly, at any time between
the older tertiary and the oldest palæozoic epochs than they have done between the older tertiary
epoch and the present day. And if that is so, uniformitarianism, even as limited by Lyell,[23]
has no call to lower its crest. But if the facts were otherwise, the position Lyell took up
remains impregnable. He did not say that the geological operations of nature were never more
rapid, or more vast, than they are now; what he did maintain is the very different proposition
that there is no good evidence of anything of the kind. And that proposition has not yet been
shown to be incorrect.

I owe more than I can tell to the careful study of the "Principles of Geology" in my young
days; and, long before the year 1856, my mind was familiar with the truth that "the doctrine
of uniformity is not incompatible with great and sudden changes," which, as I have shown, is
taught totidem verbis in that work. Even had it been possible for me to shut my eyes to the
sense of what I had read in the "Principles," Whewell's "Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences,"
published in 1840, a work with which I was also tolerably familiar, must have opened them.
For the always acute, if not always profound, author, in arguing against Lyell's uniformitarianism,
expressly points out that it does not in any way contravene the occurrence of catastrophes.

     With regard to such occurrences [earthquakes, deluges,
     etc.], terrible as they appear at the time, they may not
     much affect the average rate of change: there may be a
     cycle, though an irregular one, of rapid and slow change:
     and if such cycles go on succeeding each other, we may still
     call the order of nature uniform, notwithstanding the
     periods of violence which it involves.[24]

The reader who has followed me through this brief chapter of the history of geological philosophy
will probably find the following passage in the paper of the Duke of Argyll to be not a little
remarkable:--

     Many years ago, when I had the honor of being President of
     the British Association,[25] I ventured to point out, in the
     presence and in the hearing of that most distinguished man
     [Sir C. Lyell] that the doctrine of uniformity was not
     incompatible with great and sudden changes, since cycles of
     these and other cycles of comparative rest might well be
     constituent parts of that uniformity which he asserted.
     Lyell did not object to this extended interpretation of his
     own doctrine, and indeed expressed to me his entire
     concurrence.

I should think he did; for, as I have shown, there was nothing in it that Lyell himself had
not said, six-and-twenty years before, and enforced, three years before; and it is almost verbally
identical with the view of uniformitarianism taken by Whewell, sixteen years before, in a work
with which, one would think, that any one who undertakes to discuss the philosophy of science
should be familiar.

Thirty years have elapsed since the beginner of 1856 persuaded himself that he enlightened
the foremost geologist of his time, and one of the most acute and far-seeing men of science
of any time, as to the scope of the doctrines which the veteran philosopher had grown gray
in promulgating; and the Duke of Argyll's acquaintance with the literature of geology has not,
even now, become sufficiently profound to dissipate that pleasant delusion.

If the Duke of Argyll's guidance in that branch of physical science, with which alone he has
given evidence of any practical acquaintance, is thus unsafe, I may breathe more freely in
setting my opinion against the authoritative deliverances of his Grace about matters which
lie outside the province of geology.

And here the Duke's paper offers me such a wealth of opportunities that choice becomes embarrassing.
I must bear in mind the good old adage, "Non multa sed multum." Tempting as it would be to
follow the Duke through his labyrinthine misunderstandings of the ordinary terminology of philosophy
and to comment on the curious unintelligibility which hangs about his frequent outpourings
of fervid language, limits of space oblige me to restrict myself to those points, the discussion
of which may help to enlighten the public in respect of matters of more importance than the
competence of my Mentor for the task which he has undertaken.

I am not sure when the employment of the word Law, in the sense in which we speak of laws of
nature, commenced, but examples of it may be found in the works of Bacon, Descartes, and Spinoza.
Bacon employs "Law" as the equivalent of "Form," and I am inclined to think that he may be
responsible for a good deal of the confusion that has subsequently arisen; but I am not aware
that the term is used by other authorities, in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, in
any other sense than that of "rule" or "definite order" of the coexistence of things or succession
of events in nature. Descartes speaks of "règles, que je nomme les lois de la nature." Leibnitz
says "loi ou règle générale," as if he considered the terms interchangeable.

The Duke of Argyll, however, affirms that the "law of gravitation" as put forth by Newton was
something more than the statement of an observed order. He admits that Kepler's three laws
"were an observed order of facts and nothing more." As to the law of gravitation, "it contains
an element which Kepler's laws did not contain, even an element of causation, the recognition
of which belongs to a higher category of intellectual conceptions than that which is concerned
in the mere observation and record of separate and apparently unconnected facts." There is
hardly a line in these paragraphs which appears to me to be indisputable. But, to confine myself
to the matter in hand, I cannot conceive that any one who had taken ordinary pains to acquaint
himself with the real nature of either Kepler's or Newton's work could have written them. That
the labours of Kepler, of all men in the world, should be called "mere observation and record,"
is truly wonderful. And any one who will look into the "Principia," or the "Optics," or the
"Letters to Bentley," will see, even if he has no more special knowledge of the topics discussed
than I have, that Newton over and over again insisted that he had nothing to do with gravitation
as a physical cause, and that when he used the terms attraction, force, and the like, he employed
them, as he says, "mathematicè" and not "physicè."

     How these attractions [of gravity, magnetism, and
     electricity] may be performed, I do not here consider. What
     I call attraction may be performed by impulse or by some
     other means unknown to me. I use that word here to signify
     only in a general way any force by which bodies tend towards
     one another, whatever be the cause.[26]

According to my reading of the best authorities upon the history of science, Newton discovered
neither gravitation, nor the law of gravitation; nor did he pretend to offer more than a conjecture
as to the causation of gravitation. Moreover, his assertion that the notion of a body acting
where it is not, is one that no competent thinker could entertain, is antagonistic to the whole
current conception of attractive and repulsive forces, and therefore of "the attractive force
of gravitation." What, then, was that labour of unsurpassed magnitude and excellence and of
immortal influence which Newton did perform? In the first place, Newton defined the laws, rules,
or observed order of the phenomena of motion, which come under our daily observation, with
greater precision than had been before attained; and, by following out, with marvellous power
and subtlety, the mathematical consequences of these rules, he almost created the modern science
of pure mechanics. In the second place, applying exactly the same method to the explication
of the facts of astronomy as that which was applied a century and a half later to the facts
of geology by Lyell, he set himself to solve the following problem. Assuming that all bodies,
free to move, tend to approach one another as the earth and the bodies on it do; assuming that
the strength of that tendency is directly as the mass and inversely as the squares of the distances;
assuming that the laws of motion, determined for terrestrial bodies, hold good throughout the
universe; assuming that the planets and their satellites were created and placed at their observed
mean distances, and that each received a certain impulse from the Creator; will the form of
the orbits, the varying rates of motion of the planets, and the ratio between those rates and
their distances from the sun, which must follow by mathematical reasoning from these premisses,
agree with the order of facts determined by Kepler and others, or not?

Newton, employing mathematical methods which are the admiration of adepts, but which no one
but himself appears to have been able to use with ease, not only answered this question in
the affirmative, but stayed not his constructive genius before it had founded modern physical
astronomy.

The historians of mechanical and of astronomical science appear to be agreed that he was the
first person who clearly and distinctly put forth the hypothesis that the phenomena comprehended
under the general name of "gravity" follow the same order throughout the universe, and that
all material bodies exhibit these phenomena; so that, in this sense, the idea of universal
gravitation may, doubtless, be properly ascribed to him.

Newton proved that the laws of Kepler were particular consequences of the laws of motion and
the law of gravitation--in other words, the reason of the first lay in the two latter. But
to talk of the law of gravitation alone as the reason of Kepler's laws, and still more as standing
in any causal relation to Kepler's laws, is simply a misuse of language. It would really be
interesting if the Duke of Argyll would explain how he proposes to set about showing that the
elliptical form of the orbits of the planets, the constant area described by the radius vector,
and the proportionality of the squares of the periodic times to the cubes of the distances
from the sun, are either caused by the "force of gravitation" or deducible from the "law of
gravitation." I conceive that it would be about as apposite to say that the various compounds
of nitrogen with oxygen are caused by chemical attraction and deducible from the atomic theory.

       *       *       *       *       *

Newton assuredly lent no shadow of support to the modern pseudo-scientific philosophy which
confounds laws with causes. I have not taken the trouble to trace out this commonest of fallacies
to its first beginning; but I was familiar with it in full bloom more than thirty years ago,
in a work which had a great vogue in its day--the "Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation"--of
which the first edition was published in 1844.

It is full of apt and forcible illustrations of pseudo-scientific realism. Consider, for example,
this gem serene. When a boy who has climbed a tree loses his hold of the branch, "the law of
gravitation unrelentingly pulls him to the ground, and then he is hurt," whereby the Almighty
is quite relieved from any responsibility for the accident. Here is the "law of gravitation"
acting as a cause in a way quite in accordance with the Duke of Argyll's conception of it.
In fact, in the mind of the author of the "Vestiges," "laws" are existences intermediate between
the Creator and His works, like the "ideas" of the Platonisers or the Logos of the Alexandrians.[27]
I may cite a passage which is quite in the vein of Philo:--

     We have seen powerful evidences that the construction of
     this globe and its associates; and, inferentially, that of
     all the other globes in space, was the result, not of any
     immediate or personal exertion on the part of the Deity, but
     of natural laws which are the expression of His will. What
     is to hinder our supposing that the organic creation is also
     a result of natural laws which are in like manner an
     expression of His will? (p. 154, 1st edition).

And creation "operating by law" is constantly cited as relieving the Creator from trouble about
insignificant details.

I am perplexed to picture to myself the state of mind which accepts these verbal juggleries.
It is intelligible that the Creator should operate according to such rules as he might think
fit to lay down for himself (and therefore according to law); but that would leave the operation
of his will just as much a direct personal act as it would be under any other circumstances.
I can also understand that (as in Leibnitz's caricature of Newton's views) the Creator might
have made the cosmical machine, and, after setting it going, have left it to itself till it
needed repair. But then, by the supposition, his personal responsibility would have been involved
in all that it did; just as much as a dynamiter is responsible for what happens, when he has
set his machine going and left it to explode.

The only hypothesis which gives a sort of mad consistency to the Vestigiarian's views is the
supposition that laws are a kind of angels or demiurgoi, who, being supplied with the Great
Architect's plan, were permitted to settle the details among themselves. Accepting this doctrine,
the conception of royal laws and plebeian laws, and of those more than Homeric contests in
which the big laws "wreck" the little ones, becomes quite intelligible. And, in fact, the honour
of the paternity of those remarkable ideas which come into full flower in the preacher's discourse
must, so far as my imperfect knowledge goes, be attributed to the author of the "Vestiges."

But the author of the "Vestiges" is not the only writer who is responsible for the current
pseudo-scientific mystifications which hang about the term "law." When I wrote my paper about
"Scientific and Pseudo-Scientific Realism," I had not read a work by the Duke of Argyll, "The
Reign of Law," which, I believe, has enjoyed, possibly still enjoys, a widespread popularity.
But the vivacity of the Duke's attack led me to think it possible that criticisms directed
elsewhere might have come home to him. And, in fact, I find that the second chapter of the
work in question, which is entitled "Law; its definitions," is, from my point of view, a sort
of "summa" of pseudo-scientific philosophy. It will be worth while to examine it in some detail.

In the first place, it is to be noted that the author of the "Reign of Law" admits that "law,"
in many cases, means nothing more than the statement of the order in which facts occur, or,
as he says, "an observed order of facts" (p. 66). But his appreciation of the value of accuracy
of expression does not hinder him from adding, almost in the same breath, "In this sense the
laws of nature are simply those facts of nature which recur according to rule" (p. 66). Thus
"laws," which were rightly said to be the statement of an order of facts in one paragraph,
are declared to be the facts themselves in the next.

We are next told that, though it may be customary and permissible to use "law" in the sense
of a statement of the order of facts, this is a low use of the word; and, indeed, two pages
farther on, the writer, flatly contradicting himself, altogether denies its admissibility.

     An observed order of facts, to be entitled to the rank of a
     law, must be an order so constant and uniform as to indicate
     necessity, and necessity can only arise out of the action
     of some compelling force (p. 68).

This is undoubtedly one of the most singular propositions that I have ever met with in a professedly
scientific work, and its rarity is embellished by another direct self-contradiction which it
implies. For on the preceding page (67), when the Duke of Argyll is speaking of the laws of
Kepler, which he admits to be laws, and which are types of that which men of science understand
by "laws," he says that they are "simply and purely an order of facts." Moreover, he adds:
"A very large proportion of the laws of every science are laws of this kind and in this sense."

If, according to the Duke of Argyll's admission, law is understood, in this sense, thus widely
and constantly by scientific authorities, where is the justification for his unqualified assertion
that such statements of the observed order of facts are not "entitled to the rank" of laws?

But let us examine the consequences of the really interesting proposition I have just quoted.
I presume that it is a law of nature that "a straight line is the shortest distance between
two points." This law affirms the constant association of a certain fact of form with a certain
fact of dimension. Whether the notion of necessity which attaches to it has an a priori, or
an a posteriori origin is a question not relevant to the present discussion. But I would beg
to be informed, if it is necessary, where is the "compelling force" out of which the necessity
arises; and further, if it is not necessary, whether it loses the character of a law of nature?

I take it to be the law of nature, based on unexceptionable evidence, that the mass of matter
remains unchanged, whatever chemical or other modifications it may undergo. This law is one
of the foundations of chemistry. But it is by no means necessary. It is quite possible to imagine
that the mass of matter should vary according to circumstances, as we know its weight does.
Moreover, the determination of the "force" which makes mass constant (if there is any intelligibility
in that form of words) would not, so far as I can see, confer any more validity on the law
than it has now.

There is a law of nature, so well vouched by experience, that all mankind, from pure logicians
in search of examples to parish sextons in search of fees, confide in it. This is the law that
"all men are mortal." It is simply a statement of the observed order of facts that all men
sooner or later die. I am not acquainted with any law of nature which is more "constant and
uniform" than this. But will any one tell me that death is "necessary"? Certainly there is
no à priori necessity in the case, for various men have been imagined to be immortal. And I
should be glad to be informed of any "necessity" that can be deduced from biological considerations.
It is quite conceivable, as has recently been pointed out, that some of the lowest forms of
life may be immortal, after a fashion. However this may be, I would further ask, supposing
"all men are mortal" to be a real law of nature, where and what is that to which, with any
propriety, the title of "compelling force" of the law can be given?

On page 69, the Duke of Argyll asserts that the law of gravitation "is a law in the sense,
not merely of a rule, but of a cause." But this revival of the teaching of the "Vestiges" has
already been examined and disposed of; and when the Duke of Argyll states that the "observed
order" which Kepler had discovered was simply a necessary consequence of the force of "gravitation,"
I need not recapitulate the evidence which proves such a statement to be wholly fallacious.
But it may be useful to say, once more, that, at this present moment, nobody knows anything
about the existence of a "force" of gravitation apart from the fact; that Newton declared the
ordinary notion of such force to be inconceivable; that various attempts have been made to
account for the order of facts we call gravitation, without recourse to the notion of attractive
force; that, if such a force exists, it is utterly incompetent to account for Kepler's laws,
without taking into the reckoning a great number of other considerations; and, finally, that
all we know about the "force" of gravitation, or any other so-called "force," is that it is
a name for the hypothetical cause of an observed order of facts.

Thus, when the Duke of Argyll says: "Force, ascertained according to some measure of its operation--this
is indeed one of the definitions, but only one, of a scientific law" (p. 71) I reply that it
is a definition which must be repudiated by every one who possesses an adequate acquaintance
with either the facts, or the philosophy, of science, and be relegated to the limbo of pseudo-scientific
fallacies. If the human mind has never entertained this notion of "force," nay, if it substituted
bare invariable succession for the ordinary notion of causation, the idea of law, as the expression
of a constantly-observed order, which generates a corresponding intensity of expectation in
our minds, would have exactly the same value, and play its part in real science, exactly as
it does now.

It is needless to extend further the present excursus on the origin and history of modern pseudo-science.
Under such high patronage as it has enjoyed, it has grown and flourished until, nowadays, it
is becoming somewhat rampant. It has its weekly "Ephemerides," in which every new pseudo-scientific
mare's-nest is hailed and belauded with the unconscious unfairness of ignorance; and an army
of "reconcilers," enlisted in its service, whose business seems to be to mix the black of dogma
and the white of science into the neutral tint of what they call liberal theology.

I remember that, not long after the publication of the "Vestiges," a shrewd and sarcastic countryman
of the author defined it as "cauld kail made het again." A cynic might find amusement in the
reflection that, at the present time, the principles and the methods of the much-vilified Vestigiarian
are being "made het again"; and are not only "echoed by the dome of St. Paul's," but thundered
from the castle of Inverary. But my turn of mind is not cynical, and I can but regret the waste
of time and energy bestowed on the endeavour to deal with the most difficult problems of science,
by those who have neither undergone the discipline, nor possess the information, which are
indispensable to the successful issue of such an enterprise.

I have already had occasion to remark that the Duke of Argyll's views of the conduct of controversy
are different from mine; and this much-to-be lamented discrepancy becomes yet more accentuated
when the Duke reaches biological topics. Anything that was good enough for Sir Charles Lyell,
in his department of study, is certainly good enough for me in mine; and I by no means demur
to being pedagogically instructed about a variety of matters with which it has been the business
of my life to try to acquaint myself. But the Duke of Argyll is not content with favouring
me with his opinions about my own business; he also answers for mine; and, at that point, really
the worm must turn. I am told that "no one knows better than Professor Huxley" a variety of
things which I really do not know; and I am said to be a disciple of that "Positive Philosophy"
which I have, over and over again, publicly repudiated in language which is certainly not lacking
in intelligibility whatever may be its other defects.

I am told that I have been amusing myself with a "metaphysical exercitation or logomachy" (may
I remark incidentally that these are not quite convertible terms?), when, to the best of my
belief, I have been trying to expose a process of mystification, based upon the use of scientific
language by writers who exhibit no sign of scientific training, of accurate scientific knowledge,
or of clear ideas respecting the philosophy of science, which is doing very serious harm to
the public. Naturally enough, they take the lion's skin of scientific phraseology for evidence
that the voice which issues from beneath it is the voice of science, and I desire to relieve
them from the consequences of their error.

The Duke of Argyll asks, apparently with sorrow that it should be his duty to subject me to
reproof--

     What shall we say of a philosophy which confounds the
     organic with the inorganic, and, refusing to take note of a
     difference so profound, assumes to explain under one common
     abstraction, the movements due to gravitation and the
     movements due to the mind of man?

To which I may fitly reply by another question: What shall we say to a controversialist who
attributes to the subject of his attack opinions which are notoriously not his; and expresses
himself in such a manner that it is obvious he is unacquainted with even the rudiments of that
knowledge which is necessary to the discussion into which he has rushed?

What line of my writing can the Duke of Argyll produce which confounds the organic with the
inorganic?

As to the latter half of the paragraph, I have to confess a doubt whether it has any definite
meaning. But I imagine that the Duke is alluding to my assertion that the law of gravitation
is nowise "suspended" or "defied" when a man lifts his arm; but that, under such circumstances,
part of the store of energy in the universe operates on the arm at a mechanical advantage as
against the operation of another part. I was simple enough to think that no one who had as
much knowledge of physiology as is to be found in an elementary primer, or who had ever heard
of the greatest physical generalisation of modern times--the doctrine of the conservation of
energy--would dream of doubting my statement; and I was further simple enough to think that
no one who lacked these qualifications would feel tempted to charge me with error. It appears
that my simplicity is greater than my powers of imagination.

The Duke of Argyll may not be aware of the fact, but it is nevertheless true, that when a man's
arm is raised, in sequence to that state of consciousness we call a volition, the volition
is not the immediate cause of the elevation of the arm. On the contrary, that operation is
effected by a certain change of form, technically known as "contraction" in sundry masses of
flesh, technically known as muscles, which are fixed to the bones of the shoulder in such a
manner that, if these muscles contract, they must raise the arm. Now each of these muscles
is a machine comparable, in a certain sense, to one of the donkey-engines of a steamship, but
more complete, inasmuch as the source of its ability to change its form, or contract, lies
within itself. Every time that, by contracting, the muscle does work, such as that involved
in raising the arm, more or less of the material which it contains is used up, just as more
or less of the fuel of a steam-engine is used up, when it does work. And I do not think there
is a doubt in the mind of any competent physicist, or physiologist, that the work done in lifting
the weight of the arm is the mechanical equivalent of a certain proportion of the energy set
free by the molecular changes which take place in the muscle. It is further a tolerably well-based
belief that this, and all other forms of energy, are mutually convertible; and, therefore,
that they all come under that general law or statement of the order of facts, called the conservation
of energy. And, as that certainly is an abstraction, so the view which the Duke of Argyll thinks
so extremely absurd is really one of the commonplaces of physiology. But this Review is hardly
an appropriate place for giving instruction in the elements of that science, and I content
myself with recommending the Duke of Argyll to devote some study to Book II. chap. v. section
4 of my friend Dr. Foster's excellent text-book of Physiology (1st edition, 1877, p. 321),
which begins thus:--

     Broadly speaking, the animal body is a machine for
     converting potential into actual energy. The potential
     energy is supplied by the food; this the metabolism of the
     body converts into the actual energy of heat and mechanical
     labour.

There is no more difficult problem in the world than that of the relation of the state of consciousness,
termed volition, to the mechanical work which frequently follows upon it. But no one can even
comprehend the nature of the problem, who has not carefully studied the long series of modes
of motion which, without a break, connect the energy which does that work with the general
store of energy. The ultimate form of the problem is this: Have we any reason to believe that
a feeling, or state of consciousness, is capable of directly affecting the motion of even the
smallest conceivable molecule of matter? Is such a thing even conceivable? If we answer these
questions in the negative, it follows that volition may be a sign, but cannot be a cause, of
bodily motion. If we answer them in the affirmative, then states of consciousness become undistinguishable
from material things; for it is the essential nature of matter to be the vehicle or substratum
of mechanical energy.

There is nothing new in all this. I have merely put into modern language the issue raised by
Descartes more than two centuries ago. The philosophies of the Occasionalists, of Spinoza,
of Malebranche, of modern idealism and modern materialism, have all grown out of the controversies
which Cartesianism evoked. Of all this the pseudo-science of the present time appears to be
unconscious; otherwise it would hardly content itself with "making het again" the pseudo-science
of the past.

In the course of these observations I have already had occasion to express my appreciation
of the copious and perfervid eloquence which enriches the Duke of Argyll's pages. I am almost
ashamed that a constitutional insensibility to the Sirenian charms of rhetoric has permitted
me in wandering through these flowery meads, to be attracted, almost exclusively, to the bare
places of fallacy and the stony grounds of deficient information, which are disguised, though
not concealed, by these floral decorations. But, in his concluding sentences, the Duke soars
into a Tyrtæan strain which roused even my dull soul.

     It was high time, indeed, that some revolt should be raised
     against that Reign of Terror which had come to be
     established in the scientific world under the abuse of a
     great name. Professor Huxley has not joined this revolt
     openly, for as yet, indeed, it is only beginning to raise
     its head. But more than once--and very lately--he has
     uttered a warning voice against the shallow dogmatism that
     has provoked it. The time is coming when that revolt will be
     carried further. Higher interpretations will be established.
     Unless I am much mistaken, they are already coming in sight
     (p. 339).

I have been living very much out of the world for the last two or three years, and when I read
this denunciatory outburst, as of one filled with the spirit of prophecy, I said to myself,
"Mercy upon us, what has happened? Can it be that X. and Y. (it would be wrong to mention the
names of the vigorous young friends which occurred to me) are playing Danton and Robespierre;
and that a guillotine is erected in the courtyard of Burlington House for the benefit of all
anti-Darwinian Fellows of the Royal Society? Where are the secret conspirators against this
tyranny, whom I am supposed to favour, and yet not have the courage to join openly? And to
think of my poor oppressed friend, Mr. Herbert Spencer, 'compelled to speak with bated breath'
(p. 338) certainly for the first time in my thirty-odd years' acquaintance with him!" My alarm
and horror at the supposition that while I had been fiddling (or at any rate physicking), my
beloved Rome had been burning, in this fashion, may be imagined.

I am sure the Duke of Argyll will be glad to hear that the anxiety he created was of extremely
short duration. It is my privilege to have access to the best sources of information, and nobody
in the scientific world can tell me anything about either the "Reign of Terror" or "the Revolt."
In fact, the scientific world laughs most indecorously at the notion of the existence of either;
and some are so lost to the sense of the scientific dignity, that they descend to the use of
transatlantic slang, and call it a "bogus scare." As to my friend Mr. Herbert Spencer, I have
every reason to know that, in the "Factors of Organic Evolution," he has said exactly what
was in his mind, without any particular deference to the opinions of the person whom he is
pleased to regard as his most dangerous critic and Devil's Advocate-General, and still less
of any one else.

I do not know whether the Duke of Argyll pictures himself as the Tallien of this imaginary
revolt against a no less imaginary Reign of Terror. But if so, I most respectfully but firmly
decline to join his forces. It is only a few weeks since I happened to read over again the
first article which I ever wrote (now twenty-seven years ago) on the "Origin of Species," and
I found nothing that I wished to modify in the opinions that are there expressed, though the
subsequent vast accumulation of evidence in favour of Mr. Darwin's views would give me much
to add. As is the case with all new doctrines, so with that of Evolution, the enthusiasm of
advocates has sometimes tended to degenerate into fanaticism; and mere speculation has, at
times, threatened to shoot beyond its legitimate bounds. I have occasionally thought it wise
to warn the more adventurous spirits among us against these dangers, in sufficiently plain
language; and I have sometimes jestingly said that I expected, if I lived long enough, to be
looked on as a reactionary by some of my more ardent friends. But nothing short of midsummer
madness can account for the fiction that I am waiting till it is safe to join openly a revolt,
hatched by some person or persons unknown, against an intellectual movement with which I am
in the most entire and hearty sympathy. It is a great many years since, at the outset of my
career, I had to think seriously what life had to offer that was worth having. I came to the
conclusion that the chief good, for me, was freedom to learn, think, and say what I pleased,
when I pleased. I have acted on that conviction, and have availed myself of the "rara temporum
felicitas ubi sentire quæ velis, et quæ sentias dicere licet," which is now enjoyable, to the
best of my ability; and though strongly, and perhaps wisely, warned that I should probably
come to grief, I am entirely satisfied with the results of the line of action I have adopted.

My career is at an end. I have

    Warmed both hands before the fire of life;

and nothing is left me, before I depart, but to help, or at any rate to abstain from hindering,
the younger generation of men of science in doing better service to the cause we have at heart
than I have been able to render.

And yet, forsooth, I am supposed to be waiting for the signal of "revolt," which some fiery
spirits among these young men are to raise before I dare express my real opinions concerning
questions about which we older men had to fight, in the teeth of fierce public opposition and
obloquy--of something which might almost justify even the grandiloquent epithet of a Reign
of Terror--before our excellent successors had left school.

It would appear that the spirit of pseudo-science has impregnated even the imagination of the
Duke of Argyll. The scientific imagination always restrains itself within the limits of probability.

FOOTNOTES:

     [20] Nineteenth Century, March, 1887.

     [21] The Duke of Argyll speaks of the recent date of the
          demonstration of the fallacy of the doctrine in
          question. "Recent" is a relative term, but I may
          mention that the question is fully discussed in my book
          on Hume; which, if I may believe my publishers, has
          been read by a good many people since it appeared in
          1879. Moreover, I observe, from a note at page 89 of
          The Reign of Law, a work to which I shall have
          occasion to advert by and by, that the Duke of Argyll
          draws attention to the circumstance that, so long ago
          as 1866, the views which I hold on this subject were
          well known. The Duke, in fact, writing about this time,
          says, after quoting a phrase of mine: "The question of
          miracles seems now to be admitted on all hands to be
          simply a question of evidence." In science, we think
          that a teacher who ignores views which have been
          discussed coram populo for twenty years, is hardly up
          to the mark.

     [22] See also vol. i. p. 460. In the ninth edition (1853),
          published twenty-three years after the first. Lyell
          deprives even the most careless reader of any excuse
          for misunderstanding him: "So in regard to subterranean
          movements, the theory of the perpetual uniformity of
          the force which they exert on the earth-crust is quite
          consistent with the admission of their alternate
          development and suspension for indefinite periods
          within limited geographical areas" (p. 187).

     [23] A great many years ago (Presidential Address to the
          Geological Society, 1869) I ventured to indicate that
          which seemed to me to be the weak point, not in the
          fundamental principles of uniformitarianism, but in
          uniformitarianism as taught by Lyell. It lay, to my
          mind, in the refusal by Hutton, and in a less degree by
          Lyell, to look beyond the limits of the time recorded
          by the stratified rocks. I said: "This attempt to
          limit, at a particular point, the progress of inductive
          and deductive reasoning from the things which are to
          the things which were--this faithlessness to its own
          logic, seems to me to have cost uniformitarianism the
          place as the permanent form of geological speculation
          which it might otherwise have held" (Lay Sermons, p.
          260). The context shows that "uniformitarianism" here
          means that doctrine, as limited in application by
          Hutton and Lyell, and that what I mean by
          "evolutionism" is consistent and thorough-going
          uniformitarianism.

     [24] Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences, vol. i. p. 670.
          New edition, 1847.

     [25] At Glasgow in 1856.

     [26] Optics, query 31.

     [27] The author recognises this in his Explanations.

IV: AN EPISCOPAL TRILOGY

[1887]

If there is any truth in the old adage that a burnt child dreads the fire, I ought to be very
loath to touch a sermon, while the memory of what befell me on a recent occasion, possibly
not yet forgotten by the readers of the Nineteenth Century, is uneffaced. But I suppose that
even the distinguished censor of that unheard-of audacity to which not even the newspaper report
of a sermon is sacred, can hardly regard a man of science as either indelicate or presumptuous,
if he ventures to offer some comments upon three discourses, specially addressed to the great
assemblage of men of science which recently gathered at Manchester, by three bishops of the
State Church. On my return to England not long ago, I found a pamphlet[28] containing a version,
which I presume to be authorised, of these sermons, among the huge mass of letters and papers
which had accumulated during two months' absence; and I have read them not only with attentive
interest, but with a feeling of satisfaction which is quite new to me as a result of hearing,
or reading, sermons. These excellent discourses, in fact, appear to me to signalise a new departure
in the course adopted by theology towards science, and to indicate the possibility of bringing
about an honourable modus vivendi between the two. How far the three bishops speak as accredited
representatives of the Church is a question to be considered by and by. Most assuredly, I am
not authorised to represent any one but myself. But I suppose that there must be a good many
people in the Church of the bishops' way of thinking; and I have reason to believe that, in
the ranks of science, there are a good many persons who, more or less, share my views. And
it is to these sensible people on both sides, as the bishops and I must needs think those who
agree with us, that my present observations are addressed. They will probably be astonished
to learn how insignificant, in principle, their differences are.

It is impossible to read the discourses of the three prelates without being impressed by the
knowledge which they display, and by the spirit of equity, I might say of generosity, towards
science which pervades them. There is no trace of that tacit or open assumption that the rejection
of theological dogmas, on scientific grounds, is due to moral perversity, which is the ordinary
note of ecclesiastical homilies on this subject, and which makes them look so supremely silly
to men whose lives have been spent in wrestling with these questions. There is no attempt to
hide away real stumbling-blocks under rhetorical stucco; no resort to the tu quoque device
of setting scientific blunders against theological errors; no suggestion that an honest man
may keep contradictory beliefs in separate pockets of his brain; no question that the method
of scientific investigation is valid, whatever the results to which it may lead; and that the
search after truth, and truth only, ennobles the searcher and leaves no doubt that his life,
at any rate, is worth living. The Bishop of Carlisle declares himself pledged to the belief
that "the advancement of science, the progress of human knowledge, is in itself a worthy aim
of the greatest effort of the greatest minds."

How often was it my fate, a quarter of a century ago, to see the whole artillery of the pulpit
brought to bear upon the doctrine of evolution and its supporters! Any one unaccustomed to
the amenities of ecclesiastical controversy would have thought we were too wicked to be permitted
to live. But let us hear the Bishop of Bedford. After a perfectly frank statement of the doctrine
of evolution and some of its obvious consequences, that learned prelate pleads, with all earnestness,
against

     a hasty denunciation of what may be proved to have at
     least some elements of truth in it, a contemptuous rejection
     of theories which we may some day learn to accept as
     freely and with as little sense of inconsistency with God's
     word as we now accept the theory of the earth's motion round
     the sun, or the long duration of the geological epochs (p.
     28).

I do not see that the most convinced evolutionist could ask any one, whether cleric or layman,
to say more than this; in fact, I do not think that any one has a right to say more, with respect
to any question about which two opinions can he held, than that his mind is perfectly open
to the force of evidence.

There is another portion of the Bishop of Bedford's sermon which I think will be warmly appreciated
by all honest and clear-headed men. He repudiates the views of those who say that theology
and science

     occupy wholly different spheres, and need in no way
     intermeddle with each other. They revolve, as it were, in
     different planes, and so never meet. Thus we may pursue
     scientific studies with the utmost freedom and, at the same
     time, may pay the most reverent regard to theology, having
     no fears of collision, because allowing no points of contact
     (p. 29).

Surely every unsophisticated mind will heartily concur with the Bishop's remark upon this convenient
refuge for the descendants of Mr. Facing-both-ways. "I have never been able to understand this
position though I have often seen it assumed." Nor can any demurrer be sustained when the Bishop
proceeds to point out that there are, and must be, various points of contact between theological
and natural science, and therefore that it is foolish to ignore or deny the existence of as
many dangers of collision.

Finally, the Bishop of Manchester freely admits the force of the objections which have been
raised, on scientific grounds, to prayer, and attempts to turn them by arguing that the proper
objects of prayer are not physical but spiritual. He tells us that natural accidents and moral
misfortunes are not to be taken for moral judgments of God; he admits the propriety of the
application of scientific methods to the investigation of the origin and growth of religions;
and he is as ready to recognise the process of evolution there, as in the physical world. Mark
the following striking passage:--

     And how utterly all the common objections to Divine
     revelation vanish away when they are set in the light of
     this theory of a spiritual progression. Are we reminded that
     there prevailed, in those earlier days, views of the nature
     of God and man, of human life and Divine Providence, which
     we now find to be untenable? That, we answer, is precisely
     what the theory of development presupposes. If early views
     of religion and morality had not been imperfect, where had
     been the development? If symbolical visions and mythical
     creations had found no place in the early Oriental
     expression of Divine truth, where had been the development?
     The sufficient answer to ninety-nine out of a hundred of the
     ordinary objections to the Bible, as the record of a divine
     education of our race, is asked in that one
     word--development. And to what are we indebted for that
     potent word, which, as with the wand of a magician, has at
     the same moment so completely transformed our knowledge and
     dispelled our difficulties? To modern science, resolutely
     pursuing its search for truth in spite of popular obloquy
     and--alas! that one should have to say it--in spite too
     often of theological denunciation (p. 53).

Apart from its general importance, I read this remarkable statement with the more pleasure,
since, however imperfectly I may have endeavoured to illustrate the evolution of theology in
a paper published in the Nineteenth Century last year,[29] it seems to me that in principle,
at any rate, I may hereafter claim high theological sanction for the views there set forth.

If theologians are henceforward prepared to recognise the authority of secular science in the
manner and to the extent indicated in the Manchester trilogy; if the distinguished prelates
who offer these terms are really plenipotentiaries, then, so far as I may presume to speak
on such a matter, there will be no difficulty about concluding a perpetual treaty of peace,
and indeed of alliance, between the high contracting powers, whose history has hitherto been
little more than a record of continual warfare. But if the great Chancellor's maxim, "Do ut
des," is to form the basis of negotiation, I am afraid that secular science will be ruined;
for it seems to me that theology, under the generous impulse of a sudden conversion, has given
all that she hath; and indeed, on one point, has surrendered more than can reasonably be asked.

I suppose I must be prepared to face the reproach which attaches to those who criticise a gift,
if I venture to observe that I do not think that the Bishop of Manchester need have been so
much alarmed, as he evidently has been, by the objections which have often been raised to prayer,
on the ground that a belief in the efficacy of prayer is inconsistent with a belief in the
constancy of the order of nature.

The Bishop appears to admit that there is an antagonism between the "regular economy of nature"
and the "regular economy of prayer" (p. 39), and that "prayers for the interruption of God's
natural order" are of "doubtful validity" (p. 42). It appears to me that the Bishop's difficulty
simply adds another example to those which I have several times insisted upon in the pages
of this Review and elsewhere, of the mischief which has been done, and is being done, by a
mistaken apprehension of the real meaning of "natural order" and "law of nature."

May I, therefore, be permitted to repeat, once more, that the statements denoted by these terms
have no greater value or cogency than such as may attach to generalisations from experience
of the past, and to expectations for the future based upon that experience? Nobody can presume
to say what the order of nature must be; all that the widest experience (even if it extended
over all past time and through all space) that events had happened in a certain way could justify,
would be a proportionally strong expectation that events will go on happening, and the demand
for a proportional strength of evidence in favour of any assertion that they had happened otherwise.

It is this weighty consideration, the truth of which every one who is capable of logical thought
must surely admit, which knocks the bottom out of all à priori objections either to ordinary
"miracles" or to the efficacy of prayer, in so far as the latter implies the miraculous intervention
of a higher power. No one is entitled to say à priori that any given so-called miraculous event
is impossible; and no one is entitled to say à priori that prayer for some change in the ordinary
course of nature cannot possibly avail.

The supposition that there is any inconsistency between the acceptance of the constancy of
natural order and a belief in the efficacy of prayer, is the more unaccountable as it is obviously
contradicted by analogies furnished by everyday experience. The belief in the efficacy of prayer
depends upon the assumption that there is somebody, somewhere, who is strong enough to deal
with the earth and its contents as men deal with the things and events which they are strong
enough to modify or control; and who is capable of being moved by appeals such as men make
to one another. This belief does not even involve theism; for our earth is an insignificant
particle of the solar system, while the solar system is hardly worth speaking of in relation
to the All; and, for anything that can be proved to the contrary, there may be beings endowed
with full powers over our system, yet, practically, as insignificant as ourselves in relation
to the universe. If any one pleases, therefore, to give unrestrained liberty to his fancy,
he may plead analogy in favour of the dream that there may be, somewhere, a finite being, or
beings, who can play with the solar system as a child plays with a toy; and that such being
may be willing to do anything which he is properly supplicated to do. For we are not justified
in saying that it is impossible for beings having the nature of men, only vastly more powerful,
to exist; and if they do exist, they may act as and when we ask them to do so, just as our
brother men act. As a matter of fact, the great mass of the human race has believed, and still
believes, in such beings, under the various names of fairies, gnomes, angels, and demons. Certainly
I do not lack faith in the constancy of natural order. But I am not less convinced that if
I were to ask the Bishop of Manchester to do me a kindness which lay within his power, he would
do it. And I am unable to see that his action on my request involves any violation of the order
of nature. On the contrary, as I have not the honour to know the Bishop personally, my action
would be based upon my faith, in that "law of nature," or generalisation from experience, which
tells me that, as a rule, men who occupy the Bishop's position are kindly and courteous. How
is the case altered if my request is preferred to some imaginary superior being, or to the
Most High being, who, by the supposition, is able to arrest disease, or make the sun stand
still in the heavens, just as easily as I can stop my watch, or make it indicate any hour that
pleases me?

I repeat that it is not upon any à priori considerations that objections, either to the supposed
efficacy of prayer in modifying the course of events, or to the supposed occurrence of miracles,
can be scientifically based. The real objection, and, to my mind, the fatal objection, to both
these suppositions, is the inadequacy of the evidence to prove any given case of such occurrences
which has been adduced. It is a canon of common sense, to say nothing of science, that the
more improbable a supposed occurrence, the more cogent ought to be the evidence in its favour.
I have looked somewhat carefully into the subject, and I am unable to find in the records of
any miraculous event evidence which even approximates to the fulfilment of this requirement.

But, in the case of prayer, the Bishop points out a most just and necessary distinction between
its effect on the course of nature, outside ourselves, and its effect within the region of
the supplicator's mind.

It is a "law of nature," verifiable by everyday experience, that our already formed convictions,
our strong desires, our intent occupation with particular ideas, modify our mental operations
to a most marvellous extent, and produce enduring changes in the direction and in the intensity
of our intellectual and moral activities. Men can intoxicate themselves with ideas as effectually
as with alcohol or with bang, and produce, by dint of intense thinking, mental conditions hardly
distinguishable from monomania. Demoniac possession is mythical; but the faculty of being possessed,
more or less completely, by an idea is probably the fundamental condition of what is called
genius, whether it show itself in the saint, the artist, or the man of science. One calls it
faith, another calls it inspiration, a third calls it insight; but the "intending of the mind,"
to borrow Newton's well-known phrase, the concentration of all the rays of intellectual energy
on some one point, until it glows and colours the whole cast of thought with its peculiar light,
is common to all.

I take it that the Bishop of Manchester has psychological science with him when he insists
upon the subjective efficacy of prayer in faith, and on the seemingly miraculous effects which
such "intending of the mind" upon religious and moral ideals may have upon character and happiness.
Scientific faith, at present, takes it no further than the prayer which Ajax offered; but that
petition is continually granted.

Whatever points of detail may yet remain open for discussion, however, I repeat the opinion
I have already expressed, that the Manchester sermons concede all that science, has an indisputable
right, or any pressing need, to ask, and that not grudgingly but generously; and, if the three
bishops of 1887 carry the Church with them, I think they will have as good title to the permanent
gratitude of posterity as the famous seven who went to the Tower in defence of the Church two
hundred years ago.

Will their brethren follow their just and prudent guidance? I have no such acquaintance with
the currents of ecclesiastical opinion as would justify me in even hazarding a guess on such
a difficult topic. But some recent omens are hardly favourable. There seems to be an impression
abroad--I do not desire to give any countenance to it--that I am fond of reading sermons. From
time to time, unknown correspondents--some apparently animated by the charitable desire to
promote my conversion, and others unmistakably anxious to spur me to the expression of wrathful
antagonism--favour me with reports or copies of such productions.

I found one of the latter category among the accumulated arrears to which I have already referred.

It is a full, and apparently accurate, report of a discourse by a person of no less ecclesiastical
rank than the three authors of the sermons I have hitherto been considering; but who he is,
and where or when the sermon was preached, are secrets which wild horses shall not tear from
me, lest I fall again under high censure for attacking a clergyman. Only if the editor of this
Review thinks it his duty to have independent evidence that the sermon has a real existence,
will I, in the strictest confidence, communicate it to him.

The preacher, in this case, is of a very different mind from the three bishops--and this mind
is different in quality, different in spirit, and different in contents. He discourses on the
à priori objections to miracles, apparently without being aware, in spite of all the discussions
of the last seven or eight years, that he is doing battle with a shadow.

I trust I do not misrepresent the Bishop of Manchester in saying that the essence of his remarkable
discourse is the insistence upon the "supreme importance of the purely spiritual in our faith,"
and of the relative, if not absolute, insignificance of aught else. He obviously perceives
the bearing of his arguments against the alterability of the course of outward nature by prayer,
on the question of miracles in general; for he is careful to say that "the possibility of miracles,
of a rare and unusual transcendence of the world order is not here in question" (p. 38). It
may be permitted me to suppose, however, that, if miracles were in question, the speaker who
warns us "that we must look for the heart of the absolute religion in that part of it which
prescribes our moral and religious relations" (p. 46) would not be disposed to advise those
who had found the heart of Christianity to take much thought about its miraculous integument.

My anonymous sermon will have nothing to do with such notions as these, and its preacher is
not too polite, to say nothing of charitable, towards those who entertain them.

     Scientific men, therefore, are perfectly right in asserting
     that Christianity rests on miracles. If miracles never
     happened, Christianity, in any sense which is not a mockery,
     which does not make the term of none effect, has no reality.
     I dwell on this because there is now an effort making to get
     up a non-miraculous, invertebrate Christianity, which may
     escape the ban of science. And I would warn you very
     distinctly against this new contrivance. Christianity is
     essentially miraculous, and falls to the ground if miracles
     be impossible.

Well, warning for warning. I venture to warn this preacher and those who, with him, persist
in identifying Christianity with the miraculous, that such forms of Christianity are not only
doomed to fall to the ground; but that, within the last half century, they have been driving
that way with continually accelerated velocity.

The so-called religious world is given to a strange delusion. It fondly imagines that it possesses
the monopoly of serious and constant reflection upon the terrible problems of existence; and
that those who cannot accept its shibboleths are either mere Gallios, caring for none of these
things, or libertines desiring to escape from the restraints of morality. It does not appear
to have entered the imaginations of these people that, outside their pale and firmly resolved
never to enter it, there are thousands of men, certainly not their inferiors in character,
capacity, or knowledge of the questions at issue, who estimate those purely spiritual elements
of the Christian faith of which the Bishop of Manchester speaks as highly as the Bishop does;
but who will have nothing to do with the Christian Churches, because in their apprehension
and for them, the profession of belief in the miraculous, on the evidence offered would be
simply immoral.

So far as my experience goes, men of science are neither better nor worse than the rest of
the world. Occupation with the endlessly great parts of the universe does not necessarily involve
greatness of character, nor does microscopic study of the infinitely little always produce
humility. We have our full share of original sin; need, greed, and vainglory beset us as they
do other mortals; and our progress is, for the most part, like that of a tacking ship, the
resultant of opposite divergencies from the straight path. But, for all that, there is one
moral benefit which the pursuit of science unquestionably bestows. It keeps the estimate of
the value of evidence up to the proper mark; and we are constantly receiving lessons, and sometimes
very sharp ones, on the nature of proof. Men of science will always act up to their standard
of veracity, when mankind in general leave off sinning; but that standard appears to me to
be higher among them than in any other class of the community.

I do not know any body of scientific men who could be got to listen without the strongest expressions
of disgusted repudiation to the exposition of a pretended scientific discovery, which had no
better evidence to show for itself than the story of the devils entering a herd of swine, or
of the fig-tree that was blasted for bearing no figs when "it was not the season of figs."
Whether such events are possible or impossible, no man can say; but scientific ethics can and
does declare that the profession of belief in them, on the evidence of documents of unknown
date and of unknown authorship, is immoral. Theological apologists who insist that morality
will vanish if their dogmas are exploded, would do well to consider the fact that, in the matter
of intellectual veracity, science is already a long way ahead of the Churches; and that, in
this particular, it is exerting an educational influence on mankind of which the Churches have
shown themselves utterly incapable.

Undoubtedly that varying compound of some of the best and some of the worst elements of Paganism
and Judaism, moulded in practice by the innate character of certain people of the Western world,
which, since the second century, has assumed to itself the title of orthodox Christianity,
"rests on miracles" and falls to the ground, not "if miracles be impossible," but if those
to which it is committed prove themselves unable to fulfil the conditions of honest belief.
That this Christianity is doomed to fall is, to my mind, beyond a doubt; but its fall will
be neither sudden nor speedy. The Church, with all the aid lent it by the secular arm, took
many centuries to extirpate the open practice of pagan idolatry within its own fold; and those
who have travelled in southern Europe will be aware that it has not extirpated the essence
of such idolatry even yet. Mutato nomine, it is probable that there is as much sheer fetichism
among the Roman populace now as there was eighteen hundred years ago; and if Marcus Antonius
could descend from his horse and ascend the steps of the Ara Coeli church about Twelfth Day,
the only thing that need strike him would be the extremely contemptible character of the modern
idols as works of art.

Science will certainly neither ask for, nor receive, the aid of the secular arm. It will trust
to the much better and more powerful help of that education in scientific truth and in the
morals of assent, which is rendered as indispensable, as it is inevitable, by the permeation
of practical life with the products and ideas of science. But no one who considers the present
state of even the most developed countries can doubt that the scientific light that has come
into the world will have to shine in the midst of darkness for a long time. The urban populations,
driven into contact with science by trade and manufacture, will more and more receive it, while
the pagani will lag behind. Let us hope that no Julian may arise among them to head a forlorn
hope against the inevitable. Whatever happens, science may bide her time in patience and in
confidence.

But to return to my "Anonymous." I am afraid that if he represents any great party in the Church,
the spirit of justice and reasonableness which animates the three bishops has as slender a
chance of being imitated, on a large scale, as their common sense and their courtesy. For,
not contented with misrepresenting science on its speculative side, "Anonymous" attacks its
morality.

     For two whole years, investigations and conclusions which
     would upset the theories of Darwin on the formation of coral
     islands were actually suppressed, and that by the advice
     even of those who accepted them, for fear of upsetting the
     faith and disturbing the judgment formed by the multitude
     on the scientific character--the infallibility--of the great
     master!

So far as I know anything about the matters which are here referred to, the part of this passage
which I have italicised is absolutely untrue. I believe that I am intimately acquainted with
all Mr. Darwin's immediate scientific friends: and I say that no one of them, nor any other
man of science known to me, ever could, or would, have given such advice to any one--if for
no other reason than that, with the example of the most candid and patient listener to objections
that ever lived fresh in their memories, they could not so grossly have at once violated their
highest duty and dishonoured their friend.

The charge thus brought by "Anonymous" affects the honour and the probity of men of science;
if it is true, we have forfeited all claim to the confidence of the general public. In my belief
it is utterly false, and its real effect will be to discredit those who are responsible for
it. As is the way with slanders, it has grown by repetition. "Anonymous" is responsible for
the peculiarly offensive form which it has taken in his hands; but he is not responsible for
originating it. He has evidently been inspired by an article entitled "A Great Lesson," published
in the September number of this Review. Truly it is "a great lesson," but not quite in the
sense intended by the giver thereof.

In the course of his doubtless well-meant admonitions, the Duke of Argyll commits himself to
a greater number of statements which are demonstrably incorrect and which any one who ventured
to write upon the subject ought to have known to be incorrect, than I have ever seen gathered
together in so small a space.

I submit a gathering from the rich store for the appreciation of the public.

First:--

     Mr. Murray's new explanation of the structure of coral-reefs
     and islands was communicated to the Royal Society of
     Edinburgh in 1880, and supported with such a weight of facts
     and such a close texture of reasoning, that no serious reply
     has ever been attempted (p. 305).

"No serious reply has ever been attempted"! I suppose that the Duke of Argyll may have heard
of Professor Dana, whose years of labour devoted to corals and coral-reefs when he was naturalist
of the American expedition under Commodore Wilkes, more than forty years ago, have ever since
caused him to be recognised as an authority of the first rank on such subjects. Now does his
Grace know, or does he not know, that, in the year 1885, Professor Dana published an elaborate
paper "On the Origin of Coral-Reefs and Islands," in which, after referring to a Presidential
Address by the Director of the Geological Survey of Great Britain and Ireland delivered in
1883, in which special attention is directed to Mr. Murray's views Professor Dana says:--

     The existing state of doubt on the question has led the
     writer to reconsider the earlier and later facts, and in the
     following pages he gives his results.

Professor Dana then devotes many pages of his very "serious reply" to a most admirable and
weighty criticism of the objections which have at various times been raised to Mr. Darwin's
doctrine, by Professor Semper, by Dr. Rein, and finally by Mr. Murray, and he states his final
judgment as follows:--

     With the theory of abrasion and solution incompetent, all
     the hypotheses of objectors to Darwin's theory are alike
     weak; for all have made these processes their chief
     reliance, whether appealing to a calcareous, or a volcanic,
     or a mountain-peak basement for the structure. The
     subsidence which the Darwinian theory requires has not been
     opposed by the mention of any fact at variance with it, nor
     by setting aside Darwin's arguments in its favour; and it
     has found new support in the facts from the "Challenger's"
     soundings off Tahiti, that had been put in array against it,
     and strong corroboration in the facts from the West Indies.

     Darwin's theory, therefore, remains as the theory that
     accounts for the origin of reefs and islands.[30]

Be it understood that I express no opinion on the controverted points. I doubt if there are
ten living men who, having a practical knowledge of what a coral-reef is, have endeavoured
to master the very difficult biological and geological problems involved in their study. I
happen to have spent the best part of three years among coral-reefs and to have made that attempt;
and, when Mr. Murray's work appeared, I said to myself that until I had two or three months
to give to the renewed study of the subject in all its bearings, I must be content to remain
in a condition of suspended judgment. In the meanwhile, the man who would be voted by common
acclamation as the most competent person now living to act as umpire, has delivered the verdict
I have quoted; and, to go no further, has fully justified the hesitation I and others may have
felt about expressing an opinion. Under these circumstances, it seems to me to require a good
deal of courage to say "no serious reply has ever been attempted"; and to chide the men of
science, in lofty tones, for their "reluctance to admit an error" which is not admitted; and
for their "slow and sulky acquiescence" in a conclusion which they have the gravest warranty
for suspecting.

Second:--

     Darwin himself had lived to hear of the new solution and,
     with that splendid candour which was eminent in him his
     mind, though now grown old in his own early convictions, was
     at least ready to entertain it, and to confess that serious
     doubts had been awakened as to the truth of his famous
     theory (p. 305).

I wish that Darwin's splendid candour could be conveyed by some description of spiritual "microbe"
to those who write about him. I am not aware that Mr. Darwin ever entertained "serious doubts
as to the truth of his famous theory"; and there is tolerably good evidence to the contrary.
The second edition of his work, published in 1876, proves that he entertained no such doubts
then; a letter to Professor Semper, whose objections, in some respects, forestalled those of
Mr. Murray, dated October 2, 1879, expresses his continued adherence to the opinion "that the
atolls and barrier reefs in the middle of the Pacific and Indian Oceans indicate subsidence";
and the letter of my friend Professor Judd, printed at the end of this article (which I had
perhaps better say Professor Judd had not seen) will prove that this opinion remained unaltered
to the end of his life.

Third:--

     ... Darwin's theory is a dream. It is not only unsound, but
     it is in many respects the reverse of truth. With all his
     conscientiousness, with all his caution, with all his powers
     of observation, Darwin in this matter fell into errors as
     profound as the abysses of the Pacific (p. 301).

Really? It seems to me that, under the circumstances, it is pretty clear that these lines exhibit
a lack of the qualities justly ascribed to Mr. Darwin, which plunges their author into a much
deeper abyss, and one from which there is no hope of emergence.

Fourth:--

     All the acclamations with which it was received were as the
     shouts of an ignorant mob (p. 301).

But surely it should be added that the Coryphæus of this ignorant mob, the fugleman of the
shouts, was one of the most accomplished naturalists and geologists now living--the American
Dana--who, after years of independent study extending over numerous reefs in the Pacific, gave
his hearty assent to Darwin's views, and after all that had been said, deliberately reaffirmed
that assent in the year 1885.

Fifth:--

     The overthrow of Darwin's speculation is only beginning to
     be known. It has been whispered for some time. The cherished
     dogma has been dropping very slowly out of sight (p. 301).

Darwin's speculation may be right or wrong, but I submit that that which has not happened cannot
even begin to be known, except by those who have miraculous gifts to which we poor scientific
people do not aspire. The overthrow of Darwin's views may have been whispered by those who
hoped for it; and they were perhaps wise in not raising their voices above a whisper. Incorrect
statements, if made too loudly, are apt to bring about unpleasant consequences.

Sixth:--

Mr. Murray's views, published in 1880, are said to have met with "slow and sulky acquiescence"
(p. 305). I have proved that they cannot be said to have met with general acquiescence of any
sort, whether quick and cheerful, or slow and sulky; and if this assertion is meant to convey
the impression that Mr. Murray's views have been ignored, that there has been a conspiracy
of silence against them, it is utterly contrary to notorious fact.

Professor Geikie's well-known "Textbook of Geology" was published in 1882, and at pages 457-459
of that work there is a careful exposition of Mr. Murray's views. Moreover Professor Geikie
has specially advocated them on other occasions,[31] notably in a long article on "The Origin
of Coral-Reefs," published in two numbers of "Nature" for 1883, and in a Presidential Address
delivered in the same year. If, in so short a time after the publication of his views, Mr.
Murray could boast of a convert, so distinguished and influential as the Director of the Geological
Survey, it seems to me that this wonderful conspiration de silence (which has about as much
real existence as the Duke of Argyll's other bogie, "The Reign of Terror ") must have ipso
facto collapsed. I wish that, when I was a young man, my endeavours to upset some prevalent
errors had met with as speedy and effectual backing.

Seventh:--

     ... Mr. John Murray was strongly advised against the
     publication of his views in derogation of Darwin's
     long-accepted theory of the coral islands, and was actually
     induced to delay it for two years. Yet the late Sir Wyville
     Thomson, who was at the head of the naturalists of the
     "Challenger" expedition, was himself convinced by Mr.
     Murray's reasoning (p. 307).

Clearly, then, it could not be Mr. Murray's official chief who gave him this advice. Who was
it? And what was the exact nature of the advice given? Until we have some precise information
on this head, I shall take leave to doubt whether this statement is more accurate than those
which I have previously cited.

Whether such advice was wise or foolish, just or immoral, depends entirely on the motive of
the person who gave it. If he meant to suggest to Mr. Murray that it might be wise for a young
and comparatively unknown man to walk warily, when he proposed to attack a generalisation based
on many years' labour of one undoubtedly competent person, and fortified by the independent
results of the many years' labour of another undoubtedly competent person; and even, if necessary,
to take two whole years in fortifying his position, I think that such advice would have been
sagacious and kind. I suppose that there are few working men of science who have not kept their
ideas to themselves, while gathering and sifting evidence, for a much longer period than two years.

If, on the other hand, Mr. Murray was advised to delay the publication of his criticisms, simply
to save Mr. Darwin's credit and to preserve some reputation for infallibility, which no one
ever heard of, then I have no hesitation in declaring that his adviser was profoundly dishonest,
as well as extremely foolish; and that, if he is a man of science, he has disgraced his calling.

But, after all, this supposed scientific Achitophel has not yet made good the primary fact
of his existence. Until the needful proof is forthcoming, I think I am justified in suspending
my judgment as to whether he is much more than an anti-scientific myth. I leave it to the Duke
of Argyll to judge of the extent of the obligation under which, for his own sake, he may lie
to produce the evidence on which his aspersions of the honour of scientific men are based.
I cannot pretend that we are seriously disturbed by charges which every one who is acquainted
with the truth of the matter knows to be ridiculous; but mud has a habit of staining if it
lies too long, and it is as well to have it brushed off as soon as may be.

So much for the "Great Lesson." It is followed by a "Little Lesson," apparently directed against
my infallibility--a doctrine about which I should be inclined to paraphrase Wilkes's remark
to George the Third, when he declared that he, at any rate, was not a Wilkite. But I really
should be glad to think that there are people who need the warning, because then it will be
obvious that this raking up of an old story cannot have been suggested by a mere fanatical
desire to damage men of science. I can but rejoice, then, that these misguided enthusiasts,
whose faith, in me has so far exceeded the bounds of reason, should be set right. But that
"want of finish" in the matter of accuracy which so terribly mars the effect of the "Great
Lesson," is no less conspicuous in the case of the "Little Lesson," and, instead of setting
my too fervent disciples right, it will set them wrong.

The Duke of Argyll, in telling the story of Bathybius, says that my mind was "caught by this
new and grand generalisation of the physical basis of life." I never have been guilty of a
reclamation about anything to my credit, and I do not mean to be; but if there is any blame
going, I do not choose to be relegated to a subordinate place when I have a claim to the first.
The responsibility for the first description and the naming of Bathybius is mine and mine only.
The paper on "Some Organisms living at great Depths in the Atlantic Ocean," in which I drew
attention to this substance, is to be found by the curious in the eighth volume of the "Quarterly
Journal of Microscopical Science," and was published in the year 1868. Whatever errors are
contained in that paper are my own peculiar property; but neither at the meeting of the British
Association in 1868, nor anywhere else, have I gone beyond what is there stated; except in
so far that, at a long-subsequent meeting of the Association, being importuned about the subject,
I ventured to express, somewhat emphatically, the wish that the thing was at the bottom of the sea.

What is meant by my being caught by a generalisation about the physical basis of life I do
not know; still less can I understand the assertion that Bathybius was accepted because of
its supposed harmony with Darwin's speculations. That which interested me in the matter was
the apparent analogy of Bathybius with other well-known forms of lower life, such as the plasmodia
of the Myxomycetes and the Rhizopods. Speculative hopes or fears had nothing to do with the
matter; and if Bathybius were brought up alive from the bottom of the Atlantic to-morrow, the
fact would not have the slightest bearing, that I can discern, upon Mr. Darwin's speculations,
or upon any of the disputed problems of biology. It would merely be one elementary organism
the more added to the thousands already known.

Up to this moment I was not aware of the universal favour with which Bathybius was received.[32]
Those simulators of an "ignorant mob" who, according to the Duke of Argyll, welcomed Darwin's
theory of coral-reefs, made no demonstration in my favour, unless his Grace includes Sir Wyville
Thomson, Dr. Carpenter, Dr. Bessels, and Professor Haeckel under that head. On the contrary,
a sagacious friend of mine, than whom there was no more competent judge, the late Mr. George
Busk, was not to be converted; while, long before the "Challenger" work, Ehrenberg wrote to
me very sceptically; and I fully expected that that eminent man would favour me with pretty
sharp criticism. Unfortunately, he died shortly afterwards, and nothing from him, that I know
of, appeared. When Sir Wyville Thomson wrote to me a brief account of the results obtained
on board the "Challenger" I sent this statement to "Nature," in which journal it appeared the
following week, without any further note or comment than was needful to explain the circumstances.
In thus allowing judgment to go by default, I am afraid I showed a reckless and ungracious
disregard for the feelings of the believers in my infallibility. No doubt I ought to have hedged
and fenced and attenuated the effect of Sir Wyville Thomson's brief note in every possible
way. Or perhaps I ought to have suppressed the note altogether, on the ground that it was a
mere ex parte statement. My excuse is that, notwithstanding a large and abiding faith in human
folly, I did not know then, any more than I know now, that there was anybody foolish enough
to be unaware that the only people scientific or other, who never make mistakes are those who
do nothing; or that anybody, for whose opinion I cared, would not rather see me commit ten
blunders than try to hide one.

Pending the production of further evidence, I hold that the existence of people who believe
in the infallibility of men of science is as purely mythical as that of the evil counsellor
who advised the withholding of the truth lest it should conflict with that belief.

I venture to think, then, that the Duke of Argyll might have spared his "Little Lesson" as
well as his "Great Lesson" with advantage. The paternal authority who whips the child for sins
he has not committed does not strengthen his moral influence--rather excites contempt and repugnance.
And if, as would seem from this and former monitory allocutions which have been addressed to
us, the Duke aspires to the position of censor, or spiritual director, in relation to the men
who are doing the work of physical science, he really must get up his facts better. There will
be an end to all chance of our kissing the rod if his Grace goes wrong a third time. He must
not say again that "no serious reply has been attempted" to a view which was discussed and
repudiated, two years before, by one of the highest extant authorities on the subject; he must
not say that Darwin accepted that which it can be proved he did not accept; he must not say
that a doctrine has dropped into the abyss when it is quite obviously alive and kicking at
the surface; he must not assimilate a man like Professor Dana to the components of an "ignorant
mob"; he must not say that things are beginning to be known which are not known at all; he
must not say that "slow and sulky acquiescence" has been given to that which cannot yet boast
of general acquiescence of any kind; he must not suggest that a view which has been publicly
advocated by the Director of the Geological Survey and no less publicly discussed by many other
authoritative writers has been intentionally and systematically ignored; he must not ascribe
ill motives for a course of action which is the only proper one; and finally, if any one but
myself were interested, I should say that he had better not waste his time in raking up the
errors of those whose lives have been occupied, not in talking about science, but in toiling,
sometimes with success and sometimes with failure, to get some real work done.

The most considerable difference I note among men is not in their readiness to fall into error,
but in their readiness to acknowledge these inevitable lapses. The Duke of Argyll has now a
splendid opportunity for proving to the world in which of these categories it is hereafter
to rank him.

       *       *       *       *       *

DEAR PROFESSOR HUXLEY,--A short time before Mr. Darwin's death, I had a conversation with,
him concerning the observations which had been made by Mr. Murray upon coral-reefs, and the
speculations which had been founded upon those observations. I found that Mr. Darwin had very
carefully considered the whole subject, and that while, on the one hand, he did not regard
the actual facts recorded by Mr. Murray as absolutely inconsistent with his own theory of subsidence,
on the other hand, he did not believe that they necessitated or supported the hypothesis advanced
by Mr. Murray. Mr. Darwin's attitude, as I understood it, towards Mr. Murray's objections to
the theory of subsidence was exactly similar to that maintained by him with respect to Professor
Semper's criticism, which was of a very similar character; and his position with regard to
the whole question was almost identical with that subsequently so clearly defined by Professor
Dana in his well-known articles published in the "American Journal of Science" for 1885.

It is difficult to imagine how any one, acquainted with the scientific literature of the last
seven years, could possibly suggest that Mr. Murray's memoir published in 1880 had failed to
secure a due amount of attention. Mr. Murray, by his position in the "Challenger" office, occupied
an exceptionally favourable position for making his views widely known; and he had, moreover,
the singular good fortune to secure from the first the advocacy of so able and brilliant a
writer as Professor Archibald Geikie, who in a special discourse and in several treatises on
geology and physical geology very strongly supported the new theory. It would be an endless
task to attempt to give references to the various scientific journals which have discussed
the subject, but I may add that every treatise on geology which has been published, since Mr.
Murray's views were made known, has dealt with his observations at considerable length. This
is true of Professor A.H. Green's "Physical Geology," published in 1882; of Professor Prestwich's
"Geology, Chemical and Physical"; and of Professor James Geikie's "Outlines of Geology," published
in 1886. Similar prominence is given to the subject in De Lapparent's "Traité de Géologie,"
published in 1885, and in Credner's "Elemente der Geologie," which has appeared during the
present year. If this be a "conspiracy of silence," where, alas! can the geological speculator
seek for fame?--Yours very truly, JOHN W. JUDD.

October 10, 1887.

FOOTNOTES:

     [28] The Advance of Science. Three sermons preached in
          Manchester Cathedral on Sunday, September 4, 1887,
          during the meeting of the British Association for the
          Advancement of Science, by the Bishop of Carlisle, the
          Bishop of Bedford, and the Bishop of Manchester.

     [29] Reprinted in Vol. IV. of this collection.

     [30] American Journal of Science, 1885, p. 190.

     [31] Professor Geikie, however, though a strong, is a fair
          and candid advocate. He says of Darwin's theory, "That
          it may be possibly true, in some instances, may be
          readily granted." For Professor Geikie, then, it is not
          yet over-thrown--still less a dream.

     [32] I find, moreover, that I specially warned my readers
          against hasty judgment. After stating the facts of
          observation, I add, "I have, hitherto, said nothing
          about their meaning, as, in an inquiry so difficult and
          fraught with interest as this, it seems to me to be in
          the highest degree important to keep the questions of
          fact and the questions of interpretation well apart"
          (p. 210).

     [34] At present included in the Duchies of Hesse-Darmstadt
          and Baden.

     [36] Now included in Western Switzerland.

     [37] Probably, according to Teulet, the present
          Sandhoferfahrt, a little below the embouchure of the
          Neckar.

     [38] The present Michilstadt, thirty miles N.E. of
          Heidelberg.

     [39] In the Middle Ages one of the most favourite
          accusations against witches was that they committed
          just these enormities.

VI: POSSIBILITIES AND IMPOSSIBILITIES

[1891]

In the course of a discussion which has been going on during the last two years,[46] it has
been maintained by the defenders of ecclesiastical Christianity that the demonology of the
books of the New Testament is an essential and integral part of the revelation of the nature
of the spiritual world promulgated by Jesus of Nazareth. Indeed, if the historical accuracy
of the Gospels and of the Acts of the Apostles is to be taken for granted, if the teachings
of the Epistles are divinely inspired, and if the universal belief and practice of the primitive
Church are the models which all later times must follow, there can be no doubt that those who
accept the demonology are in the right. It is as plain as language can make it, that the writers
of the Gospels believed in the existence of Satan and the subordinate ministers of evil as
strongly as they believed in that of God and the angels, and that they had an unhesitating
faith in possession and in exorcism. No reader of the first three Gospels can hesitate to admit
that, in the opinion of those persons among whom the traditions out of which they are compiled
arose, Jesus held, and constantly acted upon, the same theory of the spiritual world. Nowhere
do we find the slightest hint that he doubted the theory, or questioned the efficacy of the
curative operations based upon it.

Thus, when such a story as that about the Gadarene swine is placed before us, the importance
of the decision, whether it is to be accepted or rejected, cannot be over-estimated. If the
demonological part of it is to be accepted, the authority of Jesus is unmistakably pledged
to the demonological system current in Judæa in the first century. The belief in devils who
possess men and can be transferred from men to pigs, becomes as much a part of Christian dogma
as any article of the creeds. If it is to be rejected, there are two alternative conclusions.
Supposing the Gospels to be historically accurate, it follows that Jesus shared in the errors,
respecting the nature of the spiritual world, prevalent in the age in which he lived and among
the people of his nation. If, on the other hand, the Gospel traditions gives us only a popular
version of the sayings and doings of Jesus, falsely coloured and distorted by the superstitious
imaginings of the minds through which it had passed, what guarantee have we that a similar
unconscious falsification, in accordance with preconceived ideas, may not have taken place
in respect of other reported sayings and doings? What is to prevent a conscientious inquirer
from finding himself at last in a purely agnostic position with respect to the teachings of
Jesus, and consequently with respect to the fundamentals of Christianity?

In dealing with the question whether the Gadarene story was to be believed or not, I confined
myself altogether to a discussion of the value of the evidence in its favour. And, as it was
easy to prove that this consists of nothing more than three partially discrepant, but often
verbally coincident, versions of an original, of the authorship of which nobody knows anything,
it appeared to me that it was wholly worthless. Even if the event described had been probable,
such evidence would have required corroboration; being grossly improbable, and involving acts
questionable in their moral and legal aspect, the three accounts sank to the level of mere tales.

Thus far, I am unable, even after the most careful revision, to find any flaw in my argument;
and I incline to think none has been found by my critics--at least, if they have, they have
kept the discovery to themselves.

In another part of my treatment of the case I have been less fortunate. I was careful to say
that, for anything I could "absolutely prove to the contrary," there might be in the universe
demonic beings who could enter into and possess men, and even be transferred from them to pigs;
and that I, for my part, could not venture to declare à priori that the existence of such entities
was "impossible." I was, however, no less careful to remark that I thought the evidence hitherto
adduced in favour of the existence of such beings "ridiculously insufficient" to warrant the
belief in them.

To my surprise, this statement of what, after the closest reflection, I still conceive to be
the right conclusion, has been hailed as a satisfactory admission by opponents, and lamented
as a perilous concession by sympathisers. Indeed, the tone of the comments of some candid friends
has been such that I began to suspect that I must be entering upon a process of retrogressive
metamorphosis which might eventually give me a place among the respectabilities. The prospect,
perhaps, ought to have pleased me; but I confess I felt something of the uneasiness of the
tailor who said that, whenever a customer's circumference was either much less, or much more,
than at the last measurement, he at once sent in his bill; and I was not consoled until I recollected
that, thirteen years ago, in discussing Hume's essay on "Miracles," I had quoted, with entire
assent, the following passage from his writings: "Whatever is intelligible and can be distinctly
conceived implies no contradiction, and can never be proved false by any demonstrative argument
or abstract reasoning à priori."[47]

Now, it is certain that the existence of demons can be distinctly conceived. In fact, from
the earliest times of which we have any record to the present day, the great majority of mankind
have had extremely distinct conceptions of them, and their practical life has been more or
less shaped by those conceptions. Further, the notion of the existence of such beings "implies
no contradiction." No doubt, in our experience, intelligence and volition are always found
in connection with a certain material organisation, and never disconnected with it; while,
by the hypothesis, demons have no such material substratum. But then, as everybody knows, the
exact relation between mental and physical phenomena, even in ourselves, is the subject of
endless dispute. We may all have our opinions as to whether mental phenomena have a substratum
distinct from that which is assumed to underlie material phenomena, or not; though if any one
thinks he has demonstrative evidence of either the existence or the non-existence of a "soul,"
all I can say is, his notion of demonstration differs from mine. But, if it be impossible to
demonstrate the non-existence of a "substance" of mental phenomena--that is, of a soul--independent
of material "substance"; if the idea of such a "soul" is "intelligible and can be distinctly
conceived," then it follows that it is not justifiable to talk of demons as "impossibilities."
The idea of their existence implies no more "contradiction" than does the idea of the existence
of pathogenic microbes in the air. Indeed, the microbes constitute a tolerably exact physical
analogue of the "powers of the air" of ancient belief.

Strictly speaking, I am unaware of any thing that has a right to the title of an "impossibility"
except a contradiction in terms. There are impossibilities logical, but none natural. A "round
square," a "present past," "two parallel lines that intersect," are impossibilities, because
the ideas denoted by the predicates, round, present, intersect, are contradictory of the ideas
denoted by the subjects, square, past, parallel. But walking on water, or turning water into
wine, or procreation without male intervention, or raising the dead, are plainly not "impossibilities"
in this sense.

In the affirmation, that a man walked upon water, the idea of the subject is not contradictory
of that in the predicate. Naturalists are familiar with insects which walk on water, and imagination
has no more difficulty in putting a man in place of the insect than it has in giving a man
some of the attributes of a bird and making an angel of him; or in ascribing to him the ascensive
tendencies of a balloon, as the "levitationists" do. Undoubtedly, there are very strong physical
and biological arguments for thinking it extremely improbable that a man could be supported
on the surface of the water as the insect is; or that his organisation could be compatible
with the possession and use of wings; or that he could rise through the air without mechanical
aid. Indeed, if we have any reason to believe that our present knowledge of the nature of things
exhausts the possibilities of nature, we might properly say that the attributes of men are
contradictory of walking on water, or floating in the air, and consequently that these acts
are truly "impossible" for him. But it is sufficiently obvious, not only that we are at the
beginning of our knowledge of nature, instead of having arrived at the end of it, but that
the limitations of our faculties are such that we never can be in a position to set bounds
to the possibilities of nature. We have knowledge of what is happening and of what has happened;
of what will happen we have and can have no more than expectation, grounded on our more or
less correct reading of past experience and prompted by the faith, begotten of that experience,
that the order of nature in the future will resemble its order in the past.

The same considerations apply to the other examples of supposed miraculous events. The change
of water into wine undoubtedly implies a contradiction, and is assuredly "impossible," if we
are permitted to assume that the "elementary bodies" of the chemists are, now and for ever,
immutable. Not only, however, is a negative proposition of this kind incapable of proof, but
modern chemistry is inclining towards the contrary doctrine. And if carbon can be got out of
hydrogen or oxygen, the conversion of water into wine comes within range of scientific possibility--it
becomes a mere question of molecular arrangement.

As for virgin procreation, it is not only clearly imaginable, but modern biology recognises
it as an everyday occurrence among some groups of animals. So with restoration to life after
death. Certain animals, long as dry as mummies, and, to all appearance, as dead, when placed
in proper conditions resume their vitality. It may be said that these creatures are not dead,
but merely in a condition of suspended vitality. That, however, is only begging the question
by making the incapacity for restoration to life part of the definition of death. In the absence
of obvious lesions of some of the more important organs, it is no easy matter, even for experts,
to say that an apparently dead man is incapable of restoration to life; and, in the recorded
instances of such restoration, the want of any conclusive evidence that the man was dead is
even more remarkable than the insufficiency of the testimony as to his coming to life again.

It may be urged, however, that there is, at any rate, one miracle certified by all three of
the Synoptic Gospels which really does "imply a contradiction," and is, therefore, "impossible"
in the strictest sense of the word. This is the well-known story of the feeding of several
thousand men, to the complete satisfaction of their hunger, by the distribution of a few loaves
and fishes among them; the wondrousness of this already somewhat surprising performance being
intensified by the assertion that the quantity of the fragments of the meal, left over, amounted
to much more than the original store.

Undoubtedly, if the operation is stated in its most general form; if it is to be supposed that
a certain quantity, or magnitude, was divided into many more parts than the whole contained;
and that, after the subtraction of several thousands of such parts, the magnitude of the remainder
amounted to more than the original magnitude, there does seem to be an à priori difficulty
about accepting the proposition, seeing that it appears to be contradictory of the senses which
we attach to the words "whole" and "parts" respectively. But this difficulty is removed if
we reflect that we are not, in this case, dealing with magnitude in the abstract, or with "whole"
and "parts" in their mathematical sense, but with concrete things, many of which are known
to possess the power of growing, or increasing in magnitude. They thus furnish us with a conception
of growth which we may, in imagination, apply to loaves and fishes; just as we may, in imagination,
apply the idea of wings to the idea of a man. It must be admitted that a number of sheep might
be fed on a pasture, and yet there might be more grass on the pasture, when the sheep left
it, than there was at first. We may generalise this and other such facts into a perfectly definite
conception of the increase of food in excess of consumption; which thus becomes a possibility,
the limitations of which are to be discovered only by experience. Therefore, if it is asserted
that cooked food has been made to grow in excess of rapid consumption, that statement cannot
logically be rejected as an à priori impossibility, however improbable experience of the capabilities
of cooked food may justify us in holding it to be.

On the strength of this undeniable improbability, however, we not only have a right to demand,
but are morally bound to require, strong evidence in its favour before we even take it into
serious consideration. But what is the evidence in this case? It is merely that of those three
books,[48] which also concur in testifying to the truth of the monstrous legend of the herd
of swine. In these three books, there are five accounts of a "miraculous feeding," which fall
into two groups. Three of the stories, obviously derived from some common source, state that
five loaves and two fishes sufficed to feed five thousand persons, and that twelve baskets
of fragments remained over. In the two others, also obviously derived from a common source,
distinct from the preceding, seven loaves and a few small fishes are distributed to four thousand
persons, and seven baskets of fragments are left.

If we were dealing with secular records, I suppose no candid and competent student of history
would entertain much doubt that the originals of the three stories and of the two are themselves
merely divergent versions of some primitive story which existed before the three Synoptic gospels
were compiled out of the body of traditions current about Jesus. This view of the case, however,
is incompatible with a belief in the historical accuracy of the first and second gospels.[49]
For these agree in making Jesus himself speak of both the "four thousand" and the "five thousand"
miracle. They say unto him, twelve. And when the seven among the four thousand, how many baskets
full of broken pieces took ye up? And they say unto him, seven."

Thus we are face to face with a dilemma the way of escape from which is not obvious. Either
the "four thousand" and the "five thousand" stories are both historically true, and describe
two separate events; or the first and second gospels testify to the very words of a conversation
between Jesus and his disciples which cannot have been uttered.

My choice between these alternatives is determined by no à priori speculations about the possibility
or impossibility of such events as the feeding of the four or of the five thousand. But I ask
myself the question, What evidence ought to be produced before I could feel justified in saying
that I believed such an event to have occurred? That question is very easily answered. Proof
must be given (1) of the weight of the loaves and fishes at starting; (2) of the distribution
to 4-5,000 persons, without any additional supply, of this quantity and quality of food; (3)
of the satisfaction of these people's appetites; (4) of the weight and quality of the fragments
gathered up into the baskets. Whatever my present notions of probability and improbability
may be, satisfactory testimony under these four heads would lead me to believe that they were
erroneous; and I should accept the so-called miracle as a new and unexpected example of the
possibilities of nature.

But when, instead of such evidence, nothing is produced but two sets of discrepant stories,
originating nobody knows how or when, among persons who could believe as firmly in devils which
enter pigs, I confess that my feeling is one of astonishment that any one should expect a reasonable
man to take such testimony seriously.

I am anxious to bring about a clear understanding of the difference between "impossibilities"
and "improbabilities," because mistakes on this point lay us open to the attacks of ecclesiastical
apologists of the type of the late Cardinal Newman; acute sophists, who think it fitting to
employ their intellects, as burglars employ dark lanterns for the discovery of other people's
weak places, while they carefully keep the light away from their own position.

When it is rightly stated, the Agnostic view of "miracles" is, in my judgment, unassailable.
We are not justifiable in the à priori assertion that the order of nature, as experience has
revealed it to us, cannot change. In arguing about the miraculous, the assumption is illegitimate,
because it involves the whole point in dispute. Furthermore, it is an assumption which takes
us beyond the range of our faculties. Obviously, no amount of past experience can warrant us
in anything more than a correspondingly strong expectation for the present and future. We find,
practically, that expectations, based upon careful observations of events, are, as a rule,
trustworthy. We should be foolish indeed not to follow the only guide we have through life.
But, for all that, our highest and surest generalisations remain on the level of justifiable
expectations; that is, very high probabilities. For my part, I am unable to conceive of an
intelligence shaped on the model of that of man, however superior it might be, which could
be any better off than our own in this respect; that is, which could possess logically justifiable
grounds for certainty about the constancy of the order of things, and therefore be in a position
to declare that such and such events are impossible. Some of the old mythologies recognised
this clearly enough. Beyond and above Zeus and Odin, there lay the unknown and inscrutable
Fate which, one day or other, would crumple up them and the world they ruled to give place
to a new order of things.

I sincerely hope that I shall not be accused of Pyrrhonism, or of any desire to weaken the
foundations of rational certainty. I have merely desired to point out that rational certainty
is one thing, and talk about "impossibilities," or "violation of natural laws," another. Rational
certainty rests upon two grounds--the one that the evidence in favour of a given statement
is as good as it can be; the other that such evidence is plainly insufficient. In the former
case, the statement is to be taken as true, in the latter as untrue; until something arises
to modify the verdict, which, however properly reached, may always be more or less wrong, the
best information being never complete, and the best reasoning being liable to fallacy.

To quarrel with the uncertainty that besets us in intellectual affairs, would be about as reasonable
as to object to live one's life, with due thought for the morrow, because no man can be sure
he will be alive an hour hence. Such are the conditions imposed upon us by nature, and we have
to make the best of them. And I think that the greatest mistake those of us who are interested
in the progress of free thought can make is to overlook these limitations, and to deck ourselves
with the dogmatic feathers which are the traditional adornment of our opponents. Let us be
content with rational certainty, leaving irrational certainties to those who like to muddle
their minds with them. I cannot see my way to say that demons are impossibilities; but I am
not more certain about anything, than I am that the evidence tendered in favour of the demonology,
of which the Gadarene story is a typical example, is utterly valueless. I cannot see my way
to say that it is "impossible" that the hunger of thousands of men should be satisfied out
of the food supplied by half-a-dozen loaves and a fish or two; but it seems to me monstrous
that I should be asked to believe it on the faith of the five stories which testify to such
an occurrence. It is true that the position that miracles are "impossible" cannot be sustained.
But I know of nothing which calls upon me to qualify the grave verdict of Hume: "There is not
to be found, in all history, any miracle attested by a sufficient number of men, of such unquestioned
goodness, education, and learning as to secure us against all delusion in themselves; of such
undoubted integrity as to place them beyond all suspicion of any design to deceive others;
of such credit and reputation in the eyes of mankind as to have a great deal to lose in case
of their being detected in any falsehood; and at the same time attesting facts performed in
such a public manner, and in so celebrated a part of the world, as to render the detection
unavoidable: all which circumstances are requisite to give us a full assurance in the testimony
of men."[50]

     The preceding paper called forth the following criticism
     signed "Agnosco," to which I append my reply:--

     While agreeing generally with Professor Huxley's remarks
     respecting miracles, in "The Agnostic Annual for 1892," it
     has seemed to me that one of his arguments at least requires
     qualification. The Professor, in maintaining that so-called
     miraculous events are possible, although the evidence
     adduced is not sufficient to render them probable, refers to
     the possibility of changing water into wine by molecular
     recomposition. But in
     maintaining that miracles (so-called) have a prospective
     possibility, Professor Huxley loses sight--at least, so it
     appears to me--of the question of their retrospective
     possibility. For, if it requires a certain degree of
     knowledge and experience, yet far from having been attained,
     to perform those acts which have been called miraculous, it
     is not only improbable, but impossible likewise, that they
     should have been done by men whose knowledge and experience
     were considerably less than our own. It has seemed to me, in
     fact, that this question of the retrospective possibility of
     miracles is more important to us Rationalists, and, for the
     matter of that, to Christians also, than the question of
     their prospective possibility, with which Professor Huxley's
     article mainly deals. Perhaps the Professor himself could
     help those of us who think so, by giving us his opinion.

     I am not sure that I fully appreciate the point raised by
     "Agnosco," nor the distinction between the prospective and
     the retrospective "possibility" of such a miracle as the
     conversion of water into wine. If we may contemplate such an
     event as "possible" in London in the year 1900, it must, in
     the same sense, have been "possible" in the year 30 (or
     thereabouts) at Cana in Galilee. If I should live so long, I
     shall take great interest in the announcement of the
     performance of this operation, say, nine years hence; and,
     if there is no objection raised by chemical experts, I shall
     accept the fact that the feat has been performed, without
     hesitation. But I shall have no more ground for believing
     the Cana story than I had before; simply because the
     evidence in its favour will remain, for me, exactly where it
     is. Possible or impossible, that evidence is worth nothing.
     To leave the safe ground of "no evidence" for speculations
     about impossibilities, consequent upon the want of
     scientific knowledge of the supposed workers of miracles,
     appears to me to be a mistake; especially in view of the
     orthodox contention that they possessed supernatural power
     and supernatural knowledge. T.H. HUXLEY.

FOOTNOTES:

     [46] 1889-1891. See the next Essay (VII) and those which
          follow it.

     [47] Inquiry Concerning the Human Understanding, p. 5;
          1748. The passage is cited and discussed in my
          Hume, pp. 132, 133.

     [48] The story in John vi. 5-14 is obviously derived from
          the "five thousand" narrative of the Synoptics.

     [49] Matthew xvi. 5-12; Mark viii. 14-21.

     [50] Hume, Inquiry, sec. X., part ii.

It appears that Mr. Gladstone some time ago asked Mr. Laing if he could draw up a short summary
of the negative creed; a body of negative propositions, which have so far been adopted on the
negative side as to be what the Apostles' and other accepted creeds are on the positive; and
Mr. Laing at once kindly obliged Mr. Gladstone with the desired articles--eight of them.

If any one had preferred this request to me, I should have replied that, if he referred to
agnostics, they have no creed; and, by the nature of the case, cannot have any. Agnosticism,
in fact, is not a creed, but a method, the essence of which lies in the rigorous application
of a single principle. That principle is of great antiquity; it is as old as Socrates; as old
as the writer who said, "Try all things, hold fast by that which is good;" it is the foundation
of the Reformation, which simply illustrated the axiom that every man should be able to give
a reason for the faith that is in him; it is the great principle of Descartes; it is the fundamental
axiom of modern science. Positively the principle may be expressed: In matters of the intellect,
follow your reason as far as it will take you, without regard to any other consideration. And
negatively: In matters of the intellect do not pretend that conclusions are certain which are
not demonstrated or demonstrable. That I take to be the agnostic faith, which if a man keep
whole and undefiled, he shall not be ashamed to look the universe in the face, whatever the
future may have in store for him.

The results of the working out of the agnostic principle will vary according to individual
knowledge and capacity, and according to the general condition of science. That which is unproven
to-day may be proven by the help of new discoveries to-morrow. The only negative fixed points
will be those negations which flow from the demonstrable limitation of our faculties. And the
only obligation accepted is to have the mind always open to conviction. Agnostics who never
fail in carrying out their principles are, I am afraid, as rare as other people of whom the
same consistency can be truthfully predicated. But, if you were to meet with such a phoenix
and to tell him that you had discovered that two and two make five, he would patiently ask
you to state your reasons for that conviction, and express his readiness to agree with you
if he found them satisfactory. The apostolic injunction to "suffer fools gladly" should be
the rule of life of a true agnostic. I am deeply conscious how far I myself fall short of this
ideal, but it is my personal conception of what agnostics ought to be.

However, as I began by stating, I speak only for myself; and I do not dream of anathematizing
and excommunicating Mr. Laing. But, when I consider his creed and compare it with the Athanasian,
I think I have on the whole a clearer conception of the meaning of the latter. "Polarity,"
in Article VIII, for example, is a word about which I heard a good deal in my youth, when "Naturphilosophie"
was in fashion, and greatly did I suffer from it. For many years past, whenever I have met
with "polarity" anywhere but in a discussion of some purely physical topic, such as magnetism,
I have shut the book. Mr. Laing must excuse me if the force of habit was too much for me when
I read his eighth article.

And now, what is to be said to Mr. Harrison's remarkable deliverance "On the future of agnosticism
"?[63] I would that it were not my business to say anything, for I am afraid I can say nothing
which shall manifest my great personal respect for this able writer, and for the zeal and energy
with which he ever and anon galvanises the weakly frame of Positivism until it looks, more
than ever, like John Bunyan's Pope and Pagan rolled into one. There is a story often repeated,
and I am afraid none the less mythical on that account, of a valiant and loud-voiced corporal
in command of two full privates who, falling in with a regiment of the enemy in the dark, orders
it to surrender under pain of instant annihilation by his force; and the enemy surrenders accordingly.
I am always reminded of this tale when I read the positivist commands to the forces of Christianity
and of Science; only the enemy show no more signs of intending to obey now than they have done
any time these forty years.

The allocution under consideration has a certain papal flavour. Mr. Harrison speaks with authority
and not as one of the common scribes of the period. He knows not only what agnosticism is and
how it has come about, but what will become of it. The agnostic is to content himself with
being the precursor of the positivist. In his place, as a sort of navvy levelling the ground
and cleansing it of such poor stuff as Christianity, he is a useful creature who deserves patting
on the back, on condition that he does not venture beyond his last. But let not these scientific
Sanballats presume that they are good enough to take part in the building of the Temple--they
are mere Samaritans, doomed to die out in proportion as the Religion of Humanity is accepted
by mankind. Well, if that is their fate, they have time to be cheerful. But let us hear Mr.
Harrison's pronouncement of their doom.

"Agnosticism is a stage in the evolution of religion, an entirely negative stage, the point
reached by physicists, a purely mental conclusion, with no relation to things social at all"
(p. 154). I am quite dazed by this declaration. Are there, then, any "conclusions" that are
not "purely mental"? Is there "no relation to things social" in "mental conclusions" which
affect men's whole conception of life? Was that prince of agnostics, David Hume, particularly
imbued with physical science? Supposing physical science to be non-existent, would not the
agnostic principle, applied by the philologist and the historian, lead to exactly the same
results? Is the modern more or less complete suspension of judgment as to the facts of the
history of regal Rome, or the real origin of the Homeric poems, anything but agnosticism in
history and in literature? And if so, how can agnosticism be the "mere negation of the physicist"?

"Agnosticism is a stage in the evolution of religion." No two people agree as to what is meant
by the term "religion"; but if it means, as I think it ought to mean, simply the reverence
and love for the ethical ideal, and the desire to realise that ideal in life, which every man
ought to feel--then I say agnosticism has no more to do with it than it has to do with music
or painting. If, on the other hand, Mr. Harrison, like most people, means by "religion" theology,
then, in my judgment, agnosticism can be said to be a stage in its evolution, only as death
may be said to be the final stage in the evolution of life.

     When agnostic logic is simply one of the canons of thought,
     agnosticism, as a distinctive faith, will have spontaneously
     disappeared (p. 155).

I can but marvel that such sentences as this, and those already quoted, should have proceeded
from Mr. Harrison's pen. Does he really mean to suggest that agnostics have a logic peculiar
to themselves? Will lie kindly help me out of my bewilderment when I try to think of "logic"
being anything else than the canon (which, I believe, means rule) of thought? As to agnosticism
being a distinctive faith, I have already shown that it cannot possibly be anything of the
kind, unless perfect faith in logic is distinctive of agnostics; which, after all, it may be.

     Agnosticism as a religious philosophy per se rests on an
     almost total ignoring of history and social evolution (p.
     152).

But neither per se nor per aliud has agnosticism (if I know anything about it) the least pretension
to be a religious philosophy; so far from resting on ignorance of history, and that social
evolution of which history is the account, it is and has been the inevitable result of the
strict adherence to scientific methods by historical investigators. Our forefathers were quite
confident about the existence of Romulus and Remus, of King Arthur, and of Hengist and Horsa.
Most of us have become agnostics in regard to the reality of these worthies. It is a matter
of notoriety of which Mr. Harrison, who accuses us all so freely of ignoring history, should
not be ignorant, that the critical process which has shattered the foundations of orthodox
Christian doctrine owes its origin, not to the devotees of physical science, but, before all,
to Richard Simon, the learned French Oratorian, just two hundred years ago. I cannot find evidence
that either Simon, or any one of the great scholars and critics of the eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries who have continued Simon's work, had any particular acquaintance with physical science.
I have already pointed out that Hume was independent of it. And certainly one of the most potent
influences in the same direction, upon history in the present century, that of Grote, did not
come from the physical side. Physical science, in fact, has had nothing directly to do with
the criticism of the Gospels; it is wholly incompetent to furnish demonstrative evidence that
any statement made in these histories is untrue. Indeed, modern physiology can find parallels
in nature for events of apparently the most eminently supernatural kind recounted in some of
those histories.

It is a comfort to hear, upon Mr. Harrison's authority, that the laws of physical nature show
no signs of becoming "less definite, less consistent, or less popular as time goes on" (p.
154). How a law of nature is to become indefinite, or "inconsistent," passes my poor powers
of imagination. But with universal suffrage and the coach-dog theory of premiership in full
view; the theory, I mean, that the whole duty of a political chief is to look sharp for the
way the social coach is driving, and then run in front and bark loud--as if being the leading
noise-maker and guiding were the same things--it is truly satisfactory to me to know that the
laws of nature are increasing in popularity. Looking at recent developments of the policy which
is said to express the great heart of the people, I have had my doubts of the fact; and my
love for my fellow-countrymen has led me to reflect, with dread, on what will happen to them,
if any of the laws of nature ever become so unpopular in their eyes, as to be voted down by
the transcendent authority of universal suffrage. If the legion of demons, before they set
out on their journey in the swine, had had time to hold a meeting and to resolve unanimously
"That the law of gravitation is oppressive and ought to be repealed," I am afraid it would
have made no sort of difference to the result, when their two thousand unwilling porters were
once launched down the steep slopes of the fatal shore of Gennesaret.

     The question of the place of religion as an element of human
     nature, as a force of human society, its origin, analysis,
     and functions, has never been considered at all from an
     agnostic point of view (p. 152).

I doubt not that Mr. Harrison knows vastly more about history than I do; in fact, he tells
the public that some of my friends and I have had no opportunity of occupying ourselves with
that subject. I do not like to contradict any statement which Mr. Harrison makes on his own
authority; only, if I may be true to my agnostic principles, I humbly ask how he has obtained
assurance on this head. I do not profess to know anything about the range of Mr. Harrison's
studies; but as he has thought it fitting to start the subject, I may venture to point out
that, on evidence adduced, it might be equally permissible to draw the conclusion that Mr.
Harrison's other labours have not allowed him to acquire that acquaintance with the methods
and results of physical science, or with the history of philosophy, or of philological and
historical criticism, which is essential to any one who desires to obtain a right understanding
of agnosticism. Incompetence in philosophy, and in all branches of science except mathematics,
is the well-known mental characteristic of the founder of positivism. Faithfulness in disciples
is an admirable quality in itself; the pity is that it not unfrequently leads to the imitation
of the weaknesses as well as of the strength of the master. It is only such over-faithfulness
which can account for a "strong mind really saturated with the historical sense" (p. 153) exhibiting
the extraordinary forgetfulness of the historical fact of the existence of David Hume implied
by the assertion that

     it would be difficult to name a single known agnostic who
     has given to history anything like the amount of thought and
     study which he brings to a knowledge of the physical world
     (p. 153).

Whoso calls to mind what I may venture to term the bright side of Christianity--that ideal
of manhood, with its strength and its patience, its justice and its pity for human frailty,
its helpfulness to the extremity of self-sacrifice, its ethical purity and nobility, which
apostles have pictured, in which armies of martyrs have placed their unshakable faith, and
whence obscure men and women, like Catherine of Sienna and John Knox, have derived the courage
to rebuke popes and kings--is not likely to underrate the importance of the Christian faith
as a factor in human history, or to doubt that if that faith should prove to be incompatible
with our knowledge, or necessary want of knowledge, some other hypostasis of men's hopes, genuine
enough and worthy enough to replace it, will arise. But that the incongruous mixture of bad
science with eviscerated papistry, out of which Comte manufactured the positivist religion,
will be the heir of the Christian ages, I have too much respect for the humanity of the future
to believe. Charles the Second told his brother, "They will not kill me, James, to make you
king." And if critical science is remorselessly destroying the historical foundations of the
noblest ideal of humanity which mankind have yet worshipped, it is little likely to permit
the pitiful reality to climb into the vacant shrine.

That a man should determine to devote himself to the service of humanity--including intellectual
and moral self-culture under that name; that this should be, in the proper sense of the word,
his religion--is not only an intelligible, but, I think, a laudable resolution. And I am greatly
disposed to believe that it is the only religion which will prove itself to be unassailably
acceptable so long as the human race endures. But when the Comtist asks me to worship "Humanity"--that
is to say, to adore the generalised conception of men as they ever have been and probably ever
will be--I must reply that I could just as soon bow down and worship the generalised conception
of a "wilderness of apes." Surely we are not going back to the days of Paganism, when individual
men were deified, and the hard good sense of a dying Vepasian could prompt the bitter jest,
"Ut puto Deus fio." No divinity doth hedge a modern man, be he even a sovereign ruler. Nor
is there any one, except a municipal magistrate, who is officially declared worshipful. But
if there is no spark of worship-worthy divinity in the individual twigs of humanity, whence
comes that godlike splendour which the Moses of Positivism fondly imagines to pervade the whole
bush?

I know no study which is so unutterably saddening as that of the evolution of humanity, as
it is set forth in the annals of history. Out of the darkness of prehistoric ages man emerges
with the marks of his lowly origin strong upon him. He is a brute, only more intelligent than
the other brutes, a blind prey to impulses, which as often as not lead him to destruction;
a victim to endless illusions, which make his mental existence a terror and a burden, and fill
his physical life with barren toil and battle. He attains a certain degree of physical comfort,
and develops a more or less workable theory of life, in such favourable situations as the plains
of Mesopotamia or of Egypt, and then, for thousands and thousands of years, struggles, with
varying fortunes, attended by infinite wickedness, bloodshed, and misery, to maintain himself
at this point against the greed and the ambition of his fellow-men. He makes a point of killing
and otherwise persecuting all those who first try to get him to move on; and when he has moved
on a step, foolishly confers post-mortem deification on his victims. He exactly repeats the
process with all who want to move a step yet farther. And the best men of the best epochs are
simply those who make the fewest blunders and commit the fewest sins.

That one should rejoice in the good man, forgive the bad man, and pity and help all men to
the best of one's ability, is surely indisputable. It is the glory of Judaism and of Christianity
to have proclaimed this truth, through all their aberrations. But the worship of a God who
needs forgiveness and help, and deserves pity every hour of his existence, is no better than
that of any other voluntarily selected fetish. The Emperor Julian's project was hopeful in
comparison with the prospects of the Comtist Anthropolatry.

When the historian of religion in the twentieth century is writing about the nineteenth, I
foresee he will say something of this kind:

The most curious and instructive events in the religious history of the preceding century are
the rise and progress of two new sects called Mormons and Positivists. To the student who has
carefully considered these remarkable phenomena nothing in the records of religious self-delusion
can appear improbable.

The Mormons arose in the midst of the great Republic, which, though comparatively insignificant,
at that time, in territory as in the number of its citizens, was (as we know from the fragments
of the speeches of its orators which have come down to us) no less remarkable for the native
intelligence of its population than for the wide extent of their information, owing to the
activity of their publishers in diffusing all that they could invent, beg, borrow, or steal.
Nor were they less noted for their perfect freedom from all restraints in thought, or speech,
or deed; except, to be sure, the beneficent and wise influence of the majority, exerted, in
case of need, through an institution known as "tarring and feathering," the exact nature of
which is now disputed.

There is a complete consensus of testimony that the founder of Mormonism, one Joseph Smith,
was a low-minded, ignorant scamp, and that he stole the "Scriptures" which he propounded; not
being clever enough to forge even such contemptible stuff as they contain. Nevertheless he
must have been a man of some force of character, for a considerable number of disciples soon
gathered about him. In spite of repeated outbursts of popular hatred and violence--during one
of which persecutions Smith was brutally murdered--the Mormon body steadily increased, and
became a flourishing community. But the Mormon practices being objectionable to the majority,
they were, more than once, without any pretence of law, but by force of riot, arson, and murder,
driven away from the land they had occupied. Harried by these persecutions, the Mormon body
eventually committed itself to the tender mercies of a desert as barren as that of Sinai; and
after terrible sufferings and privations, reached the Oasis of Utah. Here it grew and flourished,
sending out missionaries to, and receiving converts from, all parts of Europe, sometimes to
the number of 10,000 in a year; until, in 1880, the rich and flourishing community numbered
110,000 souls in Utah alone, while there were probably 30,000 or 40,000 scattered abroad elsewhere.
In the whole history of religions there is no more remarkable example of the power of faith;
and, in this case, the founder of that faith was indubitably a most despicable creature. It
is interesting to observe that the course taken by the great Republic and its citizens runs
exactly parallel with that taken by the Roman Empire and its citizens towards the early Christians,
except that the Romans had a certain legal excuse for their acts of violence, inasmuch as the
Christian "sodalitia" were not licensed, and consequently were, ipso facto, illegal assemblages.
Until, in the latter part of the nineteenth century, the United States legislature decreed
the illegality of polygamy, the Mormons were wholly within the law.

Nothing can present a greater contrast to all this than the history of the Postivists. This
sect arose much about the same time as that of the Mormons, in the upper and most instructed
stratum of the quick-witted, sceptical population of Paris. The founder, Auguste Comte, was
a teacher of mathematics, but of no eminence in that department of knowledge, and with nothing
but an amateur's acquaintance with physical, chemical, and biological science. His works are
repulsive, on account of the dull diffuseness of their style, and a certain air, as of a superior
person, which characterises them; but nevertheless they contain good things here and there.
It would take too much space to reproduce in detail a system which proposes to regulate all
human life by the promulgation of a Gentile Leviticus. Suffice it to say, that M. Comte may
be described as a syncretic, who, like the Gnostics of early Church history, attempted to combine
the substance of imperfectly comprehended contemporary science with the form of Roman Christianity.
It may be that this is the reason why his disciples were so very angry with some obscure people
called Agnostics, whose views, if we may judge by the account left in the works of a great
Positivist controversial writer, were very absurd.

To put the matter briefly, M. Comte, finding Christianity and Science at daggers drawn, seems
to have said to Science, "You find Christianity rotten at the core, do you? Well, I will scoop
out the inside of it." And to Romanism: "You find Science mere dry light--cold and bare. Well,
I will put your shell over it, and so, as schoolboys make a spectre out of a turnip and a tallow
candle, behold the new religion of Humanity complete!"

Unfortunately neither the Romanists, nor the people who were something more than amateurs in
science, could be got to worship M. Comte's new idol properly. In the native country of Positivism,
one distinguished man of letters and one of science, for a time, helped to make up a roomful
of the faithful, but their love soon grew cold. In England, on the other hand, there appears
to be little doubt that, in the ninth decade of the century, the multitude of disciples reached
the grand total of several score. They had the advantage of the advocacy of one or two most
eloquent and learned apostles, and, at any rate, the sympathy of several persons of light and
leading; and, if they were not seen, they were heard, all over the world. On the other hand,
as a sect, they laboured under the prodigious disadvantage of being refined, estimable people,
living in the midst of the worn-out civilisation of the old world; where any one who had tried
to persecute them, as the Mormons were persecuted, would have been instantly hanged. But the
majority never dreamed of persecuting them; on the contrary, they were rather given to scold
and otherwise try the patience of the majority.

The history of these sects in the closing years of the century is highly instructive. Mormonism ...

But I find I have suddenly slipped off Mr. Harrison's tripod, which I had borrowed for the
occasion. The fact is, I am not equal to the prophetical business, and ought not to have undertaken
it.

       *       *       *       *       *

[It did not occur to me, while writing the latter part of this essay, that it could be needful
to disclaim the intention of putting the religious system of Comte on a level with Mormonism.
And I was unaware of the fact that Mr. Harrison rejects the greater part of the Positivist
Religion, as taught by Comte.

     [55] Here, as always, the revised version is cited.

     [61] Kritik der reinen Vernunft. Edit. Hartenstein, p. 256.

     [62] Report of the Church Congress, Manchester, 1888, p. 252.

     [63] Fortnightly Review, Jan. 1889.

VIII: AGNOSTICISM: A REJOINDER

[1889]

Those who passed from Dr. Wace's article in the last number of the "Nineteenth Century" to
the anticipatory confutation of it which followed in "The New Reformation," must have enjoyed
the pleasure of a dramatic surprise--just as when the fifth act of a new play proves unexpectedly
bright and interesting. Mrs. Ward will, I hope, pardon the comparison, if I say that her effective
clearing away of antiquated incumbrances from the lists of the controversy, reminds me of nothing
so much as of the action of some neat-handed, but strong-wristed, Phyllis, who, gracefully
wielding her long-handled "Turk's head," sweeps away the accumulated results of the toil of
generations of spiders. I am the more indebted to this luminous sketch of the results of critical
investigation, as it is carried out among these theologians who are men of science and not
mere counsel for creeds, since it has relieved me from the necessity of dealing with the greater
part of Dr. Wace's polemic, and enables me to devote more space to the really important issues
which have been raised.[64]

Perhaps, however, it may be well for me to observe that approbation of the manner in which
a great biblical scholar, for instance, Reuss, does his work does not commit me to the adoption
of all, or indeed any of his views; and, further, that the disagreements of a series of investigators
do not in any way interfere with the fact that each of them has made important contributions
to the body of truth ultimately established. If I cite Buffon, Linnæus, Lamarck, and Cuvier,
as having each and all taken a leading share in building up modern biology, the statement that
every one of these great naturalists disagreed with, and even more or less contradicted, all
the rest is quite true; but the supposition that the latter assertion is in any way inconsistent
with the former, would betray a strange ignorance of the manner in which all true science advances.

Dr. Wace takes a great deal of trouble to make it appear that I have desired to evade the real
questions raised by his attack upon me at the Church Congress. I assure the reverend Principal
that in this, as in some other respects, he has entertained a very erroneous conception of
my intentions. Things would assume more accurate proportions in Dr. Wace's mind, if he would
kindly remember that it is just thirty years since ecclesiastical thunderbolts began to fly
about my ears. I have had the "Lion and the Bear" to deal with, and it is long since I got
quite used to the threatenings of episcopal Goliaths, whose croziers were like unto a weaver's
beam. So that I almost think I might not have noticed Dr. Wace's attack, personal as it was;
and although, as he is good enough to tell us, separate copies are to be had for the modest
equivalent of twopence, as a matter of fact, it did not come under my notice for a long time
after it was made. May I further venture to point out that (reckoning postage) the expenditure
of twopence-halfpenny, or, at the most, threepence, would have enabled Dr. Wace so far to comply
with ordinary conventions as to direct my attention to the fact that he had attacked me before
a meeting at which I was not present? I really am not responsible for the five months' neglect
of which Dr. Wace complains. Singularly enough, the Englishry who swarmed about the Engadine,
during the three months that I was being brought back to life by the glorious air and perfect
comfort of the Maloja, did not, in my hearing, say anything about the important events which
had taken place at the Church Congress; and I think I can venture to affirm that there was
not a single copy of Dr. Wace's pamphlet in any of the hotel libraries which I rummaged, in
search of something more edifying than dull English or questionable French novels.

And now, having, as I hope, set myself right with the public as regards the sins of commission
and omission with which I have been charged, I feel free to deal with matters to which time
and type may be more profitably devoted.

I believe that there is not a solitary argument I have used, or that I
am about to use, which is original, or has anything to do with the
fact that I have been chiefly occupied with natural science. They are
all, facts and reasoning alike, either identical with, or
consequential upon, propositions which are to be found in the works of
scholars and theologians of the highest repute in the only two
countries, Holland and Germany,[65] in which, at the present time,
professors of theology are to be found, whose tenure of their posts
does not depend upon the results to which their inquiries lead
them.[66] It is true that, to the best of my ability, I have satisfied
myself of the soundness of the foundations on which my arguments are
built, and I desire to be held fully responsible for everything I say.
But, nevertheless, nay position is really no more than that of an
expositor; and my justification for undertaking it is simply that
conviction of the supremacy of private judgment (indeed, of the
impossibility of escaping it) which is the foundation of the
Protestant Reformation, and which was the doctrine accepted by the
vast majority of the Anglicans of my youth, before that backsliding
towards the "beggarly rudiments" of an effete and idolatrous
sacerdotalism which has, even now, provided us with the saddest
spectacle which has been offered to the eyes of Englishmen in this
generation.
                                          (Mark vii. 6-7.)

Men who can be absorbed in bickerings over miserable disputes of this kind can have but little
sympathy with the old evangelical doctrine of the "open Bible," or anything but a grave misgiving
of the results of diligent reading of the Bible, without the help of ecclesiastical spectacles,
by the mass of the people. Greatly to the surprise of many of my friends, I have always advocated
the reading of the Bible, and the diffusion of the study of that most remarkable collection
of books among the people. Its teachings are so infinitely superior to those of the sects,
who are just as busy now as the Pharisees were eighteen hundred years ago, in smothering them
under "the precepts of men"; it is so certain, to my mind, that the Bible contains within itself
the refutation of nine-tenths of the mixture of sophistical metaphysics and old-world superstition
which has been piled round it by the so-called Christians of later times; it is so clear that
the only immediate and ready antidote to the poison which has been mixed with Christianity,
to the intoxication and delusion of mankind, lies in copious draughts from the undefiled spring,
that I exercise the right and duty of free judgment on the part of every man, mainly for the
purpose of inducing other laymen to follow my example. If the New Testament is translated into
Zulu by Protestant missionaries, it must be assumed that a Zulu convert is competent to draw
from its contents all the truths which it is necessary for him to believe. I trust that I may,
without immodesty, claim to be put on the same footing as a Zulu. Orthodox Jews who refuse
to believe that those who do observe it to be heretics.

When I ventured to doubt "whether any Protestant theologian who has a reputation to lose will
say that he believes the Gadarene story," it appears that I reckoned without Dr. Wace, who,
referring to this passage in my paper, says:--

     He will judge whether I fall under his description; but I
     repeat that I believe it, and that he has removed the only
     objection to my believing it (p. 363).

Far be it from me to set myself up as a judge of any such delicate question as that put before
me; but I think I may venture to express the conviction that, in the matter of courage, Dr.
Wace has raised for himself a monument ære perennius. For really, in my poor judgment, a certain
splendid intrepidity, such as one admires in the leader of a forlorn hope, is manifested by
Dr. Wace when he solemnly affirms that he believes the Gadarene story on the evidence offered.
I feel less complimented perhaps than I ought to do, when I am told that I have been an accomplice
in extinguishing in Dr. Wace's mind the last glimmer of doubt which common sense may have suggested.
In fact, I must disclaim all responsibility for the use to which the information I supplied
has been put. I formally decline to admit that the expression of my ignorance whether devils,
in the existence of which I do not believe, if they did exist, might or might not be made to
go out of men into pigs, can, as a matter of logic, have been of any use whatever to a person
who already believed in devils and in the historical accuracy of the gospels.

Of the Gadarene story, Dr. Wace, with all solemnity and twice over, affirms that he "believes
it." I am sorry to trouble him further, but what does he mean by "it"? Because there are two
stories, one in "Mark" and "Luke," and the other in "Matthew." In the former, which I quoted
in my previous paper, there is one possessed man; in the latter there are two. The story is
told fully, with the vigorous homely diction and the picturesque details of a piece of folklore,
in the second gospel. The immediately antecedent event is the storm on the Lake of Gennesaret.
The immediately consequent events are the message from the ruler of the synagogue and the healing
of the woman with an issue of blood. In the third gospel, the order of events is exactly the
same, and there is an extremely close general and verbal correspondence between the narratives
of the miracle. Both agree in stating that there was only one possessed man, and that he was
the residence of many devils, whose name was "Legion."

In the first gospel, the event which immediately precedes the Gadarene affair is, as before,
the storm; the message from the ruler and the healing of the issue are separated from it by
the accounts of the healing of a paralytic, of the calling of Matthew, and of a discussion
with some Pharisees. Again, while the second gospel speaks of the country of the "Gerasenes"
as the locality of the event, the third gospel has "Gerasenes," "Gergesenes," and "Gadarenes"
in different ancient MSS.; while the first has "Gadarenes."

The really important points to be noticed, however, in the narrative of the first gospel, are
these--that there are two possessed men instead of one; and that while the story is abbreviated
by omissions, what there is of it is often verbally identical with the corresponding passages
in the other two gospels. The most unabashed of reconcilers cannot well say that one man is
the same as two, or two as one; and, though the suggestion really has been made, that two different
miracles, agreeing in all essential particulars, except the number of the possessed, were effected
immediately after the storm on the lake, I should be sorry to accuse any one of seriously adopting
it. Nor will it he pretended that the allegory refuge is accessible in this particular case.

So, when Dr. Wace says that he believes in the synoptic evangelists' account of the miraculous
bedevilment of swine, I may fairly ask which of them does he believe? Does he hold by the one
evangelist's story, or by that of the two evangelists? And having made his election, what reasons
has he to give for his choice? If it is suggested that the witness of two is to be taken against
that of one, not only is the testimony dealt with in that common-sense fashion against which
the theologians of his school protest so warmly; not only is all question of inspiration at
an end, but the further inquiry arises, After all, is it the testimony of two against one?
Are the authors of the versions in the second and third gospels really independent witnesses?
In order to answer this question, it is only needful to place the English versions of the two
side by side, and compare them carefully. It will then be seen that the coincidences between
them, not merely in substance, but in arrangement, and in the use of identical words in the
same order, are such, that only two alternatives are conceivable: either one evangelist freely
copied from the other, or both based themselves upon a common source, which may either have
been a written document, or a definite oral tradition learned by heart. Assuredly, these two
testimonies are not those of independent witnesses. Further, when the narrative in the first
gospel is compared with that in the other two, the same fact comes out.

Supposing, then, that Dr. Wace is right in his assumption that Matthew, Mark, and Luke wrote
the works which we find attributed to them by tradition, what is the value of their agreement,
even that something more or less like this particular miracle occurred, since it is demonstrable,
either that all depend on some antecedent statement, of the authorship of which nothing is
known, or that two are dependent upon the third?

Dr. Wace says he believes the Gadarene story; whichever version of it he accepts, therefore,
he believes that Jesus said what he is stated in all the versions to have said, and thereby
virtually declared that the theory of the nature of the spiritual world involved in the story
is true. Now I hold that this theory is false, that it is a monstrous and mischievous fiction;
and I unhesitatingly express my disbelief in any assertion that it is true, by whomsoever made.
So that, if Dr. Wace is right in his belief, he is also quite right in classing me among the
people he calls "infidels"; and although I cannot fulfil the eccentric expectation that I shall
glory in a title which, from my point of view, it would be simply silly to adopt, I certainly
shall rejoice not to be reckoned among "Christians" so long as the profession of belief in
such stories as the Gadarene pig affair, on the strength of a tradition of unknown origin,
of which two discrepant reports, also of unknown origin, alone remain, forms any part of the
Christian faith. And, although I have, more than once, repudiated the gift of prophecy, yet
I think I may venture to express the anticipation, that if "Christians" generally are going
to follow the line taken by Dr. Wace, it will not be long before all men of common sense qualify
for a place among the "infidels."

FOOTNOTES:

     [64] I may perhaps return to the question of the authorship
          of the Gospels. For the present I must content myself
          with warning my readers against any reliance upon Dr.
          Wace's statements as to the results arrived at by
          modern criticism. They are as gravely as surprisingly
          erroneous.

     [65] The United States ought, perhaps, to be added, but
          I am not sure. Zeller's Vorträge und Abhandlungen were
          published and came into my hands a quarter of a century
          ago. The writer's rank, as a theologian to begin with,
          and subsequently as a historian of Greek philosophy, is
          of the highest. Among these essays are two--Das
          Urchirstenthum and Die Tübinger historische
          Schule--which are likely to be of more use to those
          who wish to know the real state of the case than all
          that the official "apologists," with their one eye on
          truth and the other on the tenets of their sect, have
          written. For the opinion of a scientific theologian
          about theologians of this stamp see pp. 225 and 227 of
          the Vorträge.

     [70] See Schürer, Geschichte des jüdischen Volkes,
          Zweiter Thiel, p. 384.

     [78] All this was quite clearly pointed out by Ritschl nearly
          forty years ago. See Die Entstchung der
          alt-katholischen Kirche (1850), p. 108.

[81] The present discussion has arisen out of the use, which has become general in the last
few years, of the terms "Agnostic" and "Agnosticism."

     [84] Dr. Newman, Essay on Development, p. 357.

     [87] See the expression of orthodox opinion upon the
          "accommodation" subterfuge already cited above, p. 217.

     [94] See the New York World for Sunday, 21st October,
          1888; and the Report of the Seybert Commission,
          Philadelphia, 1887.

     [98] Nineteenth Century, May 1889 (p. 701).

    [100] To-day's Times contains a report of a remarkable
          speech by Prince Bismarck, in which he tells the
          Reichstag that he has long given up investing in
          foreign stock, lest so doing should mislead his
          judgment in his transactions with foreign states. Does
          this declaration prove that the Chancellor accuses
          himself of being "sordid" and "selfish"; or does it not
          rather show that, even in dealing with himself, he
          remains the man of realities?

X: THE KEEPERS OF THE HERD OF SWINE

[1890]

I had fondly hoped that Mr. Gladstone and I had come to an end of disputation, and that the
hatchet of war was finally superseded by the calumet, which, as Mr. Gladstone, I believe, objects
to tobacco, I was quite willing to smoke for both. But I have had, once again, to discover
that the adage that whoso seeks peace will ensue it, is a somewhat hasty generalisation. The
renowned warrior with whom it is my misfortune to be opposed in most things has dug up the
axe and is on the war-path once more. The weapon has been wielded with all the dexterity which
long practice has conferred on a past master in craft, whether of wood or state. And I have
reason to believe that the simpler sort of the great tribe which he heads, imagine that my
scalp is already on its way to adorn their big chief's wigwam. I am glad therefore to be able
to relieve any anxieties which my friends may entertain without delay. I assure them that my
skull retains its normal covering, and that though, naturally, I may have felt alarmed, nothing
serious has happened. My doughty adversary has merely performed a war dance, and his blows
have for the most part cut the air. I regret to add, however, that by misadventure, and I am
afraid I must say carelessness, he has inflicted one or two severe contusions on himself.

When the noise of approaching battle roused me from the dreams of peace which occupy my retirement,
I was glad to observe (since I must fight) that the campaign was to be opened upon a new field.
When the contest raged over the Pentateuchal myth of the creation, Mr. Gladstone's manifest
want of acquaintance with the facts and principles involved in the discussion, no less than
with the best literature on his own side of the subject, gave me the uncomfortable feeling
that I had my adversary at a disadvantage. The sun of science, at my back, was in his eyes.
But, on the present occasion, we are happily on an equality. History and Biblical criticism
are as much, or as little, my vocation as they are that of Mr. Gladstone; the blinding from
too much light, or the blindness from too little, may be presumed to be equally shared by both
of us.

Mr. Gladstone takes up his new position in the country of the Gadarenes. His strategic sense
justly leads him to see that the authority of the teachings of the synoptic Gospels, touching
the nature of the spiritual world, turns upon the acceptance, or the rejection, of the Gadarene
and other like stories. As we accept, or repudiate, such histories as that of the possessed
pigs, so shall we accept, or reject, the witness of the synoptics to such miraculous interventions.

It is exactly because these stories constitute the key-stone of the orthodox arch, that I originally
drew attention to them; and, in spite of my longing for peace, I am truly obliged to Mr. Gladstone
for compelling me to place my case before the public once more. It may be thought that this
is a work of supererogation by those who are aware that my essay is the subject of attack in
a work so largely circulated as the "Impregnable Rock of Holy Scripture"; and who may possibly,
in their simplicity, assume that it must be truthfully set forth in that work. But the warmest
admirers of Mr. Gladstone will hardly be prepared to maintain that mathematical accuracy in
stating the opinions of an opponent is the most prominent feature of his controversial method.
And what follows will show that, in the present case, the desire to be fair and accurate, the
existence of which I am bound to assume, has not borne as much fruit as might have been expected.
("Nineteenth Century," February, 1889, p. 172).

Mr. Gladstone has not found it convenient to cite this passage; and, in view of various considerations,
I dare not assume that he would assent to it, without sundry subtle modifications which, for
me, might possibly rob it of its argumentative value. But, until the proposition is seriously
controverted, I shall assume it to be true, and content myself with warning the reader that
neither he nor I have any grounds for assuming Mr. Gladstone's concurrence. With this caution,
I proceed to remark that I think it may be granted that the people whose herd of 2000 swine
(more or fewer) was suddenly destroyed suffered great loss and damage. And it is quite certain
that the narrators of the Gadarene story do not, in any way, refer to the point of morality
and legality thus raised; as I said, they show no inkling of the moral and legal difficulties
which arise.

Such being the facts of the case, I submit that for those who admit the principle laid down,
the conclusion which I have drawn necessarily follows; though I repeat that, since Mr. Gladstone
does not explicitly admit the principle, I am far from suggesting that he is bound by its logical
consequences. However, I distinctly reiterate the opinion that any one who acted in the way
described in the story would, in my judgment, be guilty of "a misdemeanour of evil example."
About that point I desire to leave no ambiguity whatever; and it follows that, if I believed
the story, I should have no hesitation in applying this judgment to the chief actor in it.

But, if any one will do me the favour to turn to the paper in which these passages occur, he
will find that a considerable part of it is devoted to the exposure of the familiar trick of
the "counsel for creeds," who, when they wish to profit by the easily stirred odium theologicum,
are careful to confuse disbelief in a narrative of a man's act, or disapproval of the acts
as narrated, with disbelieving and vilipending the man himself. If I say that "according to
paragraphs in several newspapers, my valued Separatist friend A.B. has houghed a lot of cattle,
which he considered to be unlawfully in the possession of an Irish land-grabber; that, in my
opinion, any such act is a misdemeanour of evil example; but, that I utterly disbelieve the
whole story and have no doubt that it is a mere fabrication:" it really appears to me that,
if any one charges me with calling A.B. an immoral misdemeanant I should be justified in using
very strong language respecting either his sanity or his veracity. And, if an analogous charge
has been brought in reference to the Gadarene story, there is certainly no excuse producible,
on account of any lack of plain speech on my part. (p. 173). (p. 174). (p. 178).

I am afraid, therefore, that Mr. Gladstone must have been exceedingly angry when he committed
himself to such a statement as follows:

     So, then, after eighteen centuries of worship offered to our
     Lord by the most cultivated, the most developed, and the
     most progressive portion of the human race, it has been
     reserved to a scientific inquirer to discover that He was no
     better than a law-breaker and an evil-doer.... How, in such
     a matter, came the honours of originality to be reserved to
     our time and to Professor Huxley? (Pp. 269, 270.)

Truly, the hatchet is hardly a weapon of precision, but would seem to have rather more the
character of the boomerang, which returns to damage the reckless thrower. Doubtless such incidents
are somewhat ludicrous. But they have a very serious side; and, if I rated the opinion of those
who blindly follow Mr. Gladstone's leading, but not light, in these matters, much higher than
the great Duke of Wellington's famous standard of minimum value, I think I might fairly beg
them to reflect upon the general bearings of this particular example of his controversial method.
I imagine it can hardly commend itself to their cool judgment.

After this tragi-comical ending to what an old historian calls a "robustious and rough coming
on"; and after some praises of the provisions of the Mosaic law in the matter of not eating
pork--in which, as pork disagrees with me and for some other reasons, I am much disposed to
concur, though I do not see what they have to do with the matter in hand--comes the serious
onslaught.

     Mr. Huxley, exercising his rapid judgment on the text, does
     not appear to have encumbered himself with the labour of
     inquiring what anybody else had known or said about it. He
     has thus missed a point which might have been set up in
     support of his accusation against our Lord. (P. 273.)

Unhappily for my conduct, I have been much exercised in controversy during the past thirty
years; and the only compensation for the loss of time and the trials of temper which it has
inflicted upon me, is that I have come to regard it as a branch of the fine arts, and to take
an impartial and æsthetic interest in the way in which it is conducted, even by those whose
efforts are directed against myself. Now, from the purely artistic point of view (which, as
we are all being told, has nothing to do with morals), I consider it an axiom, that one should
never appear to doubt that the other side has performed the elementary duty of acquiring proper
elementary information, unless there is demonstrative evidence to the contrary. And I think,
though I admit that this may be a purely subjective appreciation, that (unless you are quite
certain) there is a "want of finish," as a great master of disputation once put it, about the
suggestion that your opponent has missed a point on his own side. Because it may happen that
he has not missed it at all, but only thought it unworthy of serious notice. And if he proves
that, the suggestion looks foolish.

Merely noting the careful repetition of a charge, the absurdity of which has been sufficiently
exposed above, I now ask my readers to accompany me on a little voyage of discovery in search
of the side on which the rapid judgment and the ignorance of the literature of the subject
lie. I think I may promise them very little trouble, and a good deal of entertainment.

Mr. Gladstone is of opinion that the Gadarene swinefolk were "Hebrews bound by the Mosaic law"
(p. 274); and he conceives that it has not occurred to me to learn what may be said in favour
of and against this view. He tells us that

     Some commentators have alleged the authority of Josephus for
     stating that Gadara was a city of Greeks rather than of
     Jews, from whence it might be inferred that to keep swine
     was innocent and lawful. (P. 273.)

Mr. Gladstone then goes on to inform his readers that in his painstaking search after truth
he has submitted to the labour of personally examining the writings of Josephus. Moreover,
in a note, he positively exhibits an acquaintance, in addition, with the works of Bishop Wordsworth
and of Archbishop Trench; and even shows that he has read Hudson's commentary on Josephus.
And yet people say that our Biblical critics do not equal the Germans in research! But Mr.
Gladstone's citation of Cuvier and Sir John Herschel about the Creation myth, and his ignorance
of all the best modern writings on his own side, produced a great impression on my mind. I
have had the audacity to suspect that his acquaintance with what has been done in Biblical
history might stand at no higher level than his information about the natural sciences. However
unwillingly, I have felt bound to consider the possibility that Mr. Gladstone's labours in
this matter may have carried him no further than Josephus and the worthy, but somewhat antique,
episcopal and other authorities to whom he refers; that even his reading of Josephus may have
been of the most cursory nature, directed not to the understanding of his author, but to the
discovery of useful controversial matter; and that, in view of the not inconsiderable misrepresentation
of my statements to which I have drawn attention, it might be that Mr. Gladstone's exposition
of the evidence of Josephus was not more trustworthy. I proceed to show that my previsions
have been fully justified. I doubt if controversial literature contains anything more piquant
than the story I have to unfold.

That I should be reproved for rapidity of judgment is very just; however quaint the situation
of Mr. Gladstone, as the reprover, may seem to people blessed with a sense of humour. But it
is a quality, the defects of which have been painfully obvious to me all my life; and I try
to keep my Pegasus--at best, a poor Shetland variety of that species of quadruped--at a respectable
jog-trot, by loading him heavily with bales of reading. Those who took the trouble to study
my paper in good faith and not for mere controversial purposes, have a right to know, that
something more than a hasty glimpse of two or three passages of Josephus (even with as many
episcopal works thrown in) lay at the back of the few paragraphs I devoted to the Gadarene
story. I proceed to set forth, as briefly as I can, some results of that preparatory work.
My artistic principles do not permit me, at present, to express a doubt that Mr. Gladstone
was acquainted with the facts I am about to mention when he undertook to write. But, if he
did know them, then both what he has said and what he has not said, his assertions and his
omissions alike, will require a paragraph to themselves.

The common consent of the synoptic Gospels affirms that the miraculous transference of devils
from a man, or men, to sundry pigs, took place somewhere on the eastern shore of the Lake of
Tiberias; "on the other side of the sea over against Galilee," the western shore being, without
doubt, included in the latter province. But there is no such concord when we come to the name
of the part of the eastern shore, on which, according to the story, Jesus and his disciples
landed. In the revised version, Matthew calls it the "country of the Gadarenes:" Luke and Mark
have "Gerasenes." In sundry very ancient manuscripts "Gergesenes" occurs.

The existence of any place called Gergesa, however, is declared by the weightiest authorities
whom I have consulted to be very questionable; and no such town is mentioned in the list of
the cities of the Decapolis, in the territory of which (as it would seem from Mark v. 20) the
transaction was supposed to take place. About Gerasa, on the other hand, there hangs no such
doubt. It was a large and important member of the group of the Decapolitan cities. But Gerasa
is more than thirty miles distant from the nearest part of the Lake of Tiberias, while the
city mentioned in the narrative could not have been very far off the scene of the event. However,
as Gerasa was a very important Hellenic city, not much more than a score of miles from Gadara,
it is easily imaginable that a locality which was part of Decapolitan territory may have been
spoken of as belonging to one of the two cities, when it really appertained to the other. After
weighing all the arguments, no doubt remains on my mind that "Gadarene" is the proper reading.
At the period under consideration, Gadara appears to have been a good-sized fortified town,
about two miles in circumference. It was a place of considerable strategic importance, inasmuch
as it lay on a high ridge at the point of intersection of the roads from Tiberias, Scythopolis,
Damascus, and Gerasa. Three miles north from it, where the Tiberias road descended into the
valley of the Hieromices, lay the famous hot springs and the fashionable baths of Amatha. On
the north-east side, the remains of the extensive necropolis of Gadara are still to be seen.
Innumerable sepulchral chambers are excavated in the limestone cliffs, and many of them still
contain sarcophaguses of basalt; while not a few are converted into dwellings by the inhabitants
of the present village of Um Keis. The distance of Gadara from the south-eastern shore of the
Lake of Tiberias is less than seven miles. The nearest of the other cities of the Decapolis,
to the north, is Hippos, which also lay some seven miles off, in the south-eastern corner of
the shore of the lake. In accordance with the ancient Hellenic practice, that each city should
be surrounded by a certain amount of territory amenable to its jurisdiction,[101] and on other
grounds, it may be taken for certain that the intermediate country was divided between Gadara
and Hippos; and that the citizens of Gadara had free access to a port on the lake. Hence the
title of "country of the Gadarenes" applied to the locality of the porcine catastrophe becomes
easily intelligible. The swine may well be imagined to have been feeding (as they do now in
the adjacent region) on the hillsides, which slope somewhat steeply down to the lake from the
northern boundary wall of the valley of the Hieromices (Nahr Yarmuk), about half-way between
the city and the shore, and doubtless lay well within the territory of the polis of Gadara.

The proof that Gadara was, to all intents and purposes, a Gentile, and not a Jewish, city is
complete. The date and the occasion of its foundation are unknown; but it certainly existed
in the third century B.C. Antiochus the Great annexed it to his dominions in B.C. 198. After
this, during the brief revival of Jewish autonomy, Alexander Jannæus took it; and for the first
time, so far as the records go, it fell under Jewish rule.[102] From this it was rescued by
Pompey (B.C. 63), who rebuilt the city and incorporated it with the province of Syria. In gratitude
to the Romans for the dissolution of a hated union, the Gadarenes adopted the Pompeian era
of their coinage. Gadara was a commercial centre of some importance, and therefore, it may
be assumed, Jews settled in it, as they settled in almost all considerable Gentile cities.
But a wholly mistaken estimate of the magnitude of the Jewish colony has been based upon the
notion that Gabinius, proconsul of Syria in 57-55 B.C., seated one of the five sanhedrins in
Gadara. Schürer has pointed out that what he really did was to lodge one of them in Gadara,
far away on the other side of the Jordan. This is one of the many errors which have arisen
out of the confusion of the names Gadara, Gazara, and Gabara.

Augustus made a present of Gadara to Herod the Great, as an appanage personal to himself; and,
upon Herod's death, recognising it to be a "Grecian city" like Hippos and Gaza,[103] he transferred
it back to its former place in the province of Syria. That Herod made no effort to judaise
his temporary possession, but rather the contrary, is obvious from the fact that the coins
of Gadara, while under his rule, bear the image of Augustus with the superscription [Greek:
Sebastos]--a flying in the face of Jewish prejudices which, even he, did not dare to venture
upon in Judæa. And I may remark that, if my co-trustee of the British Museum had taken the
trouble to visit the splendid numismatic collection under our charge, he might have seen two
coins of Gadara, one of the time of Tiberius and the other of that of Titus, each bearing the
effigies of the emperor on the obverse: while the personified genius of the city is on the
reverse of the former. Further, the well-known works of De Saulcy and of Ekhel would have supplied
the information that, from the time of Augustus to that of Gordian, the Gadarene coinage had
the same thoroughly Gentile character. Curious that a city of "Hebrews bound by the Mosaic
law" should tolerate such a mint!

Whatever increase in population the Ghetto of Gadara may have undergone, between B.C. 4 and
A.D. 66, it nowise affected the gentile and anti-judaic character of the city at the outbreak
of the great war; for Josephus tells us that, immediately after the great massacre of Cæsarea,
the revolted Jews "laid waste the villages of the Syrians and their neighbouring cities, Philadelphia
and Sebonitis and Gerasa and Pella and Scythopolis, and after them Gadara and Hippos" ("Wars,"
II. xviii. 1). I submit that, if Gadara had been a city of "Hebrews bound by the Mosaic law,"
the ravaging of their territory by their brother Jews, in revenge for the massacre of the Cæsarean
Jews by the Gentile population of that place, would surely have been a somewhat unaccountable
proceeding. But when we proceed a little further, to the fifth section of the chapter in which
this statement occurs, the whole affair becomes intelligible enough.

     Besides this murder at Scythopolis, the other cities rose up
     against the Jews that were among them: those of Askelon slew
     two thousand five hundred, and those of Ptolemais two
     thousand, and put not a few into bonds; those of Tyre also
     put a great number to death, but kept a great number in
     prison; moreover, those of Hippos and those of Gadara did
     the like, while they put to death the boldest of the Jews,
     but kept those of whom they were most afraid in custody; as
     did the rest of the cities of Syria according as they every
     one either hated them or were afraid of them.

Josephus is not always trustworthy, but he has no conceivable motive
for altering facts here; he speaks of contemporary events, in which he
himself took an active part, and he characterises the cities in the
way familiar to him. For Josephus, Gadara is just as much a Gentile
city as Ptolemais; it was reserved for his latest commentator, either
ignoring, or ignorant of, all this, to tell us that Gadara had a
Hebrew population, bound by the Mosaic law. This is not quite the place for a
     critical examination of the matter; but I have examined it,
     and have satisfied myself that Josephus gives no reason
     whatever to suppose that the population of Gadara, and still
     less (if less may be) the population of the neighbourhood,
     and least of all the swine-herding or lower portion of that
     population, were other than Hebrews bound by the Mosaic law.
     (Pp. 373-4.)

Even "rapid judgment" cannot be pleaded in excuse for this surprising statement, because a
"Note on the Gadarene miracle" is added (in a special appendix), in which the references are
given to the passages of Josephus, by the improved interpretation of which, Mr. Gladstone has
thus contrived to satisfy himself of the thing which is not. One of these is "Antiquities"
XVII. xiii. 4, in which section, I regret to say, I can find no mention of Gadara. In "Antiquities,"
XVII. xi. 4, however, there is a passage which would appear to be that Mr. Gladstone means;
and I will give it in full, although I have already cited part of it:

     There were also certain of the cities which paid tribute to
     Archelaus; Strato's tower, and Sebaste, with Joppa and
     Jerusalem; for, as to Gaza, Gadara, and Hippos, they were
     Grecian cities, which Cæsar separated from his government,
     and added them to the province of Syria.

That is to say, Augustus simply restored the state of things which existed before he gave Gadara,
then certainly a Gentile city, lying outside Judæa, to Herod as a mark of great personal favour.
Yet Mr. Gladstone can gravely tell those who are not in a position to check his statements:

     The sense seems to be, not that these cities were inhabited
     by a Greek population, but that they had politically been
     taken out of Judæa and added to Syria, which I presume was
     classified as simply Hellenic, a portion of the great Greek
     empire erected by Alexander. (Pp. 295-6.)

Mr. Gladstone's next reference is to the "Wars," III. vii. 1:

     So Vespasian marched to the city Gadara, and took it upon
     the first onset, because he found it destitute of a
     considerable number of men grown up for war. He then came
     into it, and slew all the youth, the Romans having no mercy
     on any age whatsoever; and this was done out of the hatred
     they bore the nation, and because of the iniquity they had
     been guilty of in the affair of Cestius.

Obviously, then, Gadara was an ultra-Jewish city. Q.E.D. But a student trained in the use of
weapons of precision, rather than in that of rhetorical tomahawks, has had many and painful
warnings to look well about him, before trusting an argument to the mercies of a passage, the
context of which he has not carefully considered. If Mr. Gladstone had not been too much in
a hurry to turn his imaginary prize to account--if he had paused just to look at the preceding
chapter of Josephus--he would have discovered that his much haste meant very little speed.
He would have found ("Wars," III. vi. 2) that Vespasian marched from his base, the port of
Ptolemais (Acre), on the shores of the Mediterranean, into Galilee; and, having dealt with
the so-called "Gadara," was minded to finish with Jotapata, a strong place about fourteen miles
south-east of Ptolemais, into which Josephus, who at first had fled to Tiberias, eventually
threw himself--Vespasian arriving before Jotapata "the very next day." Now, if any one will
take a decent map of Ancient Palestine in hand, he will see that Jotapata, as I have said,
lies about fourteen miles in a straight line east-south-east of Ptolemais, while a certain
town, "Gabara" (which was also held by the Jews), is situated, about the same distance, to
the east of that port. Nothing can be more obvious than that Vespasian, wishing to advance
from Ptolemais into Galilee, could not afford to leave these strongholds in the possession
of the enemy; and, as Gabara would lie on his left flank when he moved to Jotapata, he took
that city, whence his communications with his base could easily be threatened, first. It might
really have been fair evidence of demoniac possession, if the best general of Rome had marched
forty odd miles, as the crow flies, through hostile Galilee, to take a city (which, moreover,
had just tried to abolish its Jewish population) on the other side of the Jordan; and then
marched back again to a place fourteen miles off his starting-point.[105] One would think that
the most careless of readers must be startled by this incongruity into inquiring whether there
might not be something wrong with the text; and, if he had done so, he would have easily discovered
that since the time of Reland, a century and a half ago, careful scholars have read Gabara
for Gadara.[106]

Once more, I venture to point out that training in the use of the weapons of precision of science
may have its value in historical studies, if only in preventing the occurrence of droll blunders
in geography.

In the third citation ("Wars," IV. vii.) Josephus tells us that Vespasian marched against "Gadara,"
which he calls the metropolis of Peræa (it was possibly the seat of a common festival of the
Decapolitan cities), and entered it, without opposition, the wealthy and powerful citizens
having opened negotiations with him without the knowledge of an opposite party, who, "as being
inferior in number to their enemies, who were within the city, and seeing the Romans very near
the city," resolved to fly. Before doing so, however, they, after a fashion unfortunately too
common among the Zealots, murdered and shockingly mutilated Dolesus, a man of the first rank,
who had promoted the embassy to Vespasian; and then "ran out of the city." Hereupon, "the people
of Gadara" (surely not this time "Hebrews bound by the Mosaic law") received Vespasian with
joyful acclamations, voluntarily pulled down their wall, so that the city could not in future
be used as a fortress by the Jews, and accepted a Roman garrison for their future protection.
Granting that this Gadara really is the city of the Gadarenes, the reference, without citation,
to the passage, in support of Mr. Gladstone's contention seems rather remarkable. Taken in
conjunction with the shortly antecedent ravaging of the Gadarene territory by the Jews, in
fact, better proof could hardly be expected of the real state of the case; namely, that the
population of Gadara (and notably the wealthy and respectable part of it) was thoroughly Hellenic;
though, as in Cæsarea and elsewhere among the Palestinian cities, the rabble contained a considerable
body of fanatical Jews, whose reckless ferocity made them, even though a mere minority of the
population, a standing danger to the city.

Thus Mr. Gladstone's conclusion from his study of Josephus, that the population of Gadara were
"Hebrews bound by the Mosaic law," turns out to depend upon nothing better than the marvellously
complete misinterpretation of what that author says, combined with equally marvellous geographical
misunderstandings, long since exposed and rectified; while the positive evidence that Gadara,
like other cities of the Decapolis, was thoroughly Hellenic in organisation, and essentially
Gentile in population, is overwhelming.

And, that being the fact of the matter, patent to all who will take the trouble to enquire
about what has been said about it, however obscure to those who merely talk of so doing, the
thesis that the Gadarene swineherds, or owners, were Jews violating the Mosaic law shows itself
to be an empty and most unfortunate guess. But really, whether they that kept the swine were
Jews, or whether they were Gentiles, is a consideration which has no relevance whatever to
my case. The legal provisions, which alone had authority over an inhabitant of the country
of the Gadarenes, were the Gentile laws sanctioned by the Roman suzerain of the province of
Syria, just as the only law, which has authority in England, is that recognised by the sovereign
Legislature. Jewish communities in England may have their private code, as they doubtless had
in Gadara. But an English magistrate, if called upon to enforce their peculiar laws, would
dismiss the complainants from the judgment seat, let us hope with more politeness than Gallio
did in a like case, but quite as firmly. Moreover, in the matter of keeping pigs, we may be
quite certain that Gadarene law left everybody free to do as he pleased, indeed encouraged
the practice rather than otherwise. Not only was pork one of the commonest and one of the most
favourite articles of Roman diet; but, to both Greeks and Romans, the pig was a sacrificial
animal of high importance. Sucking pigs played an important part in Hellenic purificatory rites;
and everybody knows the significance of the Roman suovetaurilia, depicted on so many bas-reliefs.

Under these circumstances, only the extreme need of a despairing "reconciler" drowning in a
sea of adverse facts, can explain the catching at such a poor straw as the reckless guess that
the swineherds of the "country of the Gadarenes" were erring Jews, doing a little clandestine
business on their own account. The endeavour to justify the asserted destruction of the swine
by the analogy of breaking open a cask of smuggled spirits, and wasting their contents on the
ground, is curiously unfortunate. Does Mr. Gladstone mean to suggest that a Frenchman landing
at Dover, and coming upon a cask of smuggled brandy in the course of a stroll along the cliffs,
has the right to break it open and waste its contents on the ground? Yet the party of Galileans
who, according to the narrative, landed and took a walk on the Gadarene territory, were as
much foreigners in the Decapolis as Frenchmen would be at Dover. Herod Antipas, their sovereign,
had no jurisdiction in the Decapolis--they were strangers and aliens, with no more right to
interfere with a pig-keeping Hebrew, than I have a right to interfere with an English professor
of the Israelitic faith, if I see a slice of ham on his plate. According to the law of the
country in which these Galilean foreigners found themselves, men might keep pigs if they pleased.
If the men who kept them were Jews, it might be permissible for the strangers to inform the
religious authority acknowledged by the Jews of Gadara; but to interfere themselves, in such
a matter, was a step devoid of either moral or legal justification.

Suppose a modern English Sabbatarian fanatic, who believes, on the strength of his interpretation
of the fourth commandment, that it is a deadly sin to work on the "Lord's Day," sees a fellow
Puritan yielding to the temptation of getting in his harvest on a fine Sunday morning--is the
former justified in setting fire to the latter's corn? Would not an English court of justice
speedily teach him better?

In truth, the government which permits private persons, on any pretext (especially pious and
patriotic pretexts), to take the law into their own hands, fails in the performance of the
primary duties of all governments; while those who set the example of such acts, or who approve
them, or who fail to disapprove them, are doing their best to dissolve civil society; they
are compassers of illegality and fautors of immorality.

I fully understand that Mr. Gladstone may not see the matter in this light. He may possibly
consider that the union of Gadara with the Decapolis, by Augustus, was a "blackguard" transaction,
which deprived Hellenic Gadarene law of all moral force; and that it was quite proper for a
Jewish Galilean, going back to the time when the land of the Girgashites was given to his ancestors,
some 1500 years before, to act, as if the state of things which ought to obtain, in territory
which traditionally, at any rate, belonged to his forefathers, did really exist. And, that
being so, I can only say I do not agree with him, but leave the matter to the appreciation
of those of our countrymen, happily not yet the minority, who believe that the first condition
of enduring liberty is obedience to the law of the land.

       *       *       *       *       *

The end of the month drawing nigh, I thought it well to send away the manuscript of the foregoing
pages yesterday, leaving open, in my own mind, the possibility of adding a succinct characterisation
of Mr. Gladstone's controversial methods as illustrated therein. This morning, however, I had
the pleasure of reading a speech which I think must satisfy the requirements of the most fastidious
of controversial artists; and there occurs in it so concise, yet so complete, a delineation
of Mr. Gladstone's way of dealing with disputed questions of another kind, that no poor effort
of mine could better it as a description of the aspect which his treatment of scientific, historical,
and critical questions presents to me.

     The smallest examination would have told a man of his
     capacity and of his experience that he was uttering the
     grossest exaggerations, that he was basing arguments upon
     the slightest hypotheses, and that his discussions only had
     to be critically examined by the most careless critic in
     order to show their intrinsic hollowness.

Those who have followed me through this paper will hardly dispute the justice of this judgment,
severe as it is. But the Chief Secretary for Ireland has science in the blood; and has the
advantage of a natural, as well as a highly cultivated, aptitude for the use of methods of
precision in investigation, and for the exact enunciation of the results thereby obtained.

FOOTNOTES:

    [101] Thus Josephus (lib. ix.) says that his rival, Justus,
          persuaded the citizens of Tiberias to "set the villages
          that belonged to Gadara and Hippos on fire; which
          villages were situated on the borders of Tiberias and
          of the region of Scythopolis."

    [102] It is said to have been destroyed by its captors.

    [103] "But as to the Grecian cities, Gaza and Gadara and
          Hippos, he cut them off from the kingdom and added them
          to Syria."--Josephus, Wars, II. vi. 3. See also
          Antiquities, XVII. xi. 4.

    [104] Geschichte des jüdischen Volkes im Zeitalter Christi,
          1886-90.

    [105] If William the Conqueror, after fighting the battle
          of Hastings, had marched to capture Chichester and then
          returned to assault Rye, being all the while anxious to
          reach London, his proceedings would not have been more
          eccentric than Mr. Gladstone must imagine those of
          Vespasian were.

    [106] See Reland, Palestina (1714), t. ii. p. 771. Also
          Robinson, Later Biblical Researches (1856), p. 87
          note.

XI: ILLUSTRATIONS OF MR. GLADSTONE'S CONTROVERSIAL METHODS

[1891]

The series of essays, in defence of the historical accuracy of the Jewish and Christian Scriptures,
contributed by Mr. Gladstone to "Good Words," having been revised and enlarged by their author,
appeared last year as a separate volume, under the somewhat defiant title of "The Impregnable
Rock of Holy Scripture."

The last of these Essays, entitled "Conclusion," contains an attack, or rather several attacks,
couched in language which certainly does not err upon the side of moderation or of courtesy,
upon statements and opinions of mine. One of these assaults is a deliberately devised attempt,
not merely to rouse the theological prejudices ingrained in the majority of Mr. Gladstone's
readers, but to hold me up as a person who has endeavoured to besmirch the personal character
of the object of their veneration. For Mr. Gladstone asserts that I have undertaken to try
"the character of our Lord" (p. 268); and he tells the many who are, as I think unfortunately,
predisposed to place implicit credit in his assertions, that it has been reserved for me to
discover that Jesus "was no better than a law-breaker and an evil-doer!" (p. 269).

It was extremely easy for me to prove, as I did in the pages of this Review last December,
that, under the most favourable interpretation, this amazing declaration must be ascribed to
extreme confusion of thought. And, by bringing an abundance of good-will to the consideration
of the subject, I have now convinced myself that it is right for me to admit that a person
of Mr. Gladstone's intellectual acuteness really did mistake the reprobation of the course
of conduct ascribed to Jesus, in a story of which I expressly say I do not believe a word,
for an attack on his character and a declaration that he was "no better than a law-breaker,
and an evil-doer." At any rate, so far as I can see, this is what Mr. Gladstone wished to be
believed when he wrote the following passage:--

     I must, however, in passing, make the confession that I did
     not state with accuracy, as I ought to have done, the
     precise form of the accusation. I treated it as an
     imputation on the action of our Lord; he replies that it is
     only an imputation on the narrative of three evangelists
     respecting Him. The difference, from his point of view, is
     probably material, and I therefore regret that I overlooked
     it.[107]

Considering the gravity of the error which is here admitted, the fashion of the withdrawal
appears more singular than admirable. From my "point of view"--not from Mr. Gladstone's apparently--the
little discrepancy between the facts and Mr. Gladstone's carefully offensive travesty of them
is "probably" (only "probably") material. However, as Mr. Gladstone concludes with an official
expression of regret for his error, it is my business to return an equally official expression
of gratitude for the attenuated reparation with which I am favoured.

Having cleared this specimen of Mr. Gladstone's controversial method out of the way, I may
proceed to the next assault, that on a passage in an article on Agnosticism ("Nineteenth Century,"
February 1889), published two years ago. On this, Mr. Gladstone, continuing his candid and
urbane observations, remarks ("Impregnable Rock," p. 273) that, "Exercising his rapid judgment
on the text," and "not inquiring what anybody else had known or said about it," I had missed
a point in support of that "accusation against our Lord" which he has now been constrained
to admit I never made. I conceive that I have abundantly proved that Gadara answered exactly
to the description here given of it; and I shall show, by and by, that Mr. Gladstone has used
language which, to my mind, involves the admission that the authorities of the city were not
Jews. But I have also taken a good deal of pains to show that the question thus raised is of
no importance in relation to the main issue.[108] If Gadara was, as I maintain it was, a city
of the Decapolis, Hellenistic in constitution and containing a predominantly Gentile population,
my case is superabundantly fortified. On the other hand, if the hypothesis that Gadara was
under Jewish government, which Mr. Gladstone seems sometimes to defend and sometimes to give
up, were accepted, my case would be nowise weakened. At any rate, Gadara was not included within
the jurisdiction of the tetrach of Galilee; if it had been, the Galileans who crossed over
the lake to Gadara had no official status; and they had no more civil right to punish law-breakers
than any other strangers.

In my turn, however, I may remark that there is a "point" which appears to have escaped Mr.
Gladstone's notice. And that is somewhat unfortunate, because his whole argument turns upon
it. Mr. Gladstone assumes, as a matter of course, that pig-keeping was an offence against the
"Law of Moses"; and, therefore, that Jews who kept pigs were as much liable to legal pains
and penalties as Englishmen who smuggle brandy ("Impregnable Rock," p. 274).

There can be no doubt that, according to the Law, as it is defined in the Pentateuch, the pig
was an "unclean" animal, and that pork was a forbidden article of diet. Moreover, since pigs
are hardly likely to be kept for the mere love of those unsavoury animals, pig-owning, or swine-herding,
must have been, and evidently was, regarded as a suspicious and degrading occupation by strict
Jews, in the first century A.D. But I should like to know on what provision of the Mosaic Law,
as it is laid down in the Pentateuch, Mr. Gladstone bases the assumption, which is essential
to his case, that the possession of pigs and the calling of a swineherd were actually illegal.
The inquiry was put to me the other day; and, as I could not answer it, I turned up the article
"Schwein" in Riehm's standard "Handwörterbuch," for help out of my difficulty; but unfortunately
without success. After speaking of the martyrdom which the Jews, under Antiochus Epiphanes,
preferred to eating pork, the writer proceeds:--

     It may be, nevertheless, that the practice of keeping pigs
     may have found its way into Palestine in the Græco-Roman
     time, in consequence of the great increase of the non-Jewish
     population; yet there is no evidence of it in the New
     Testament; the great herd of swine, 2,000 in number,
     mentioned in the narrative of the possessed, was feeding in
     the territory of Gadara, which belonged to the Decapolis;
     and the prodigal son became a swineherd with the native of a
     far country into which he had wandered; in neither of these
     cases is there reason for thinking that the possessors of
     these herds were Jews.[109]

Having failed in my search, so far, I took up the next book of reference at hand, Kitto's "Cyclopædia"
(vol. iii. 1876). There, under "Swine," the writer, Colonel Hamilton Smith, seemed at first
to give me what I wanted, as he says that swine "appear to have been repeatedly introduced
and reared by the Hebrew people,[110] notwithstanding the strong prohibition in the Law of
Moses (Is. lxv. 4)." But, in the first place, Isaiah's writings form no part of the "Law of
Moses"; and, in the second place, the people denounced by the prophet in this passage are neither
the possessors of pigs, nor swineherds, but these "which eat swine's flesh and broth of abominable
things is in their vessels." And when, in despair, I turned to the provisions of the Law itself,
my difficulty was not cleared up. Leviticus xi. 8 (Revised Version) says, in reference to the
pig and other unclean animals: "Of their flesh ye shall not eat, and their carcasses ye shall
not touch." In the revised version of Deuteronomy, xiv. 8, the words of the prohibition are
identical, and a skilful refiner might possibly satisfy himself, even if he satisfied nobody
else, that "carcase" means the body of a live animal as well as a dead one; and that, since
swineherds could hardly avoid contact with their charges, their calling was implicitly forbidden.[111]
Unfortunately, the authorised version expressly says "dead carcase"; and thus the most rabbinically
minded of reconcilers might find his casuistry foiled by that great source of surprises, the
"original Hebrew." That such check is at any rate possible, is clear from the fact that the
legal uncleanness of some animals, as food, did not interfere with their being lawfully possessed,
cared for, and sold by Jews. The provisions for the ransoming of unclean beasts (Lev. xxvii.
27) and for the redemption of their sucklings (Numbers xviii. 15) sufficiently prove this.
As the late Dr. Kalisch has observed in his "Commentary" on Leviticus, part ii. p. 129, note:--

     Though asses and horses, camels and dogs, were kept by the
     Israelites, they were, to a certain extent, associated with
     the notion of impurity; they might be turned to profitable
     account by their labour or otherwise, but in respect to food
     they were an abomination.

The same learned commentator (loc. cit. p. 88) proves that the Talmudists forbade the rearing
of pigs by Jews, unconditionally and everywhere; and even included it under the same ban as
the study of Greek philosophy, "since both alike were considered to lead to the desertion of
the Jewish faith." It is very possible, indeed probable, that the Pharisees of the fourth decade
of our first century took as strong a view of pig-keeping as did their spiritual descendants.
But, for all that, it does not follow that the practice was illegal. The stricter Jews could
not have despised and hated swineherds more than they did publicans; but, so far as I know,
there is no provision in the Law against the practice of the calling of a tax-gatherer by a
Jew. The publican was in fact very much in the position of an Irish process-server at the present
day--more, rather than less, despised and hated on account of the perfect legality of his occupation.
Except for certain sacrificial purposes, pigs were held in such abhorrence by the ancient Egyptians,
that swineherds were not permitted to enter a temple, or to intermarry with other castes; and
any one who had touched a pig, even accidentally, was unclean. But these very regulations prove
that pig-keeping was not illegal; it merely involved certain civil and religious disabilities.
For the Jews, dogs were typically "unclean animals"; but when that eminently pious Hebrew,
Tobit, "went forth" with the angel "the young man's dog" went "with them" (Tobit v. 16) without
apparent remonstrance from the celestial guide. I really do not see how an appeal to the Law
could have justified any one in drowning Tobit's dog, on the ground that his master was keeping
and feeding an animal quite as "unclean" as any pig. Certainly the excellent Raguel must have
failed to see the harm of dog-keeping, for we are told that, on the traveller's return homewards,
"the dog went after them" (xi. 4).

Until better light than I have been able to obtain is thrown upon the subject, therefore, it
is obvious that Mr. Gladstone's argumentative house has been built upon an extremely slippery
quick-sand; perhaps even has no foundation at all.

Yet another "point" does not seem to have occurred to Mr. Gladstone, who is so much shocked
that I attach no overwhelming weight to the assertions contained in the synoptic Gospels, even
when all three concur. These Gospels agree in stating, in the most express, and to some extent
verbally identical, terms, that the devils entered the pigs at their own request,[112] and
the third Gospel (viii. 31) tells us what the motive of the demons was in asking the singular
boon: "They intreated him that he would not command them to depart into the abyss." From this,
it would seem that the devils thought to exchange the heavy punishment of transportation to
the abyss for the lighter penalty of imprisonment in swine. And some commentators, more ingenious
than respectful to the supposed chief actor in this extraordinary fable, have dwelt, with satisfaction,
upon the very unpleasant quarter of an hour which the evil spirits must have had, when the
headlong rush of their maddened tenements convinced them how completely they were taken in.
In the whole story, there is not one solitary hint that the destruction of the pigs was intended
as a punishment of their owners, or of the swineherds. On the contrary, the concurrent testimony
of the three narratives is to the effect that the catastrophe was the consequence of diabolic
suggestion. And, indeed, no source could be more appropriate for an act of such manifest injustice
and illegality.

I can but marvel that modern defenders of the faith should not be glad of any reasonable excuse
for getting rid of a story which, if it had been invented by Voltaire, would have justly let
loose floods of orthodox indignation.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus, the hypothesis, to which Mr. Gladstone so fondly clings, finds no support in the provisions
of the "Law of Moses" as that law is defined in the Pentateuch; while it is wholly inconsistent
with the concurrent testimony of the synoptic Gospels, to which Mr. Gladstone attaches so much
weight. In my judgment, it is directly contrary to everything which profane history tells us
about the constitution and the population of the city of Gadara; and it commits those who accept
it to a story which, if it were true, would implicate the founder of Christianity in an illegal
and inequitable act.

Such being the case, I consider myself excused from following Mr. Gladstone through all the
meanderings of his late attempt to extricate himself from the maze of historical and exegetical
difficulties in which he is entangled. I content myself with assuring those who, with my paper
(not Mr. Gladstone's version of my arguments) in hand, consult the original authorities, that
they will find full justification for every statement I have made. But in order to dispose
those who cannot, or will not, take that trouble, to believe that the proverbial blindness
of one that judges his own cause plays no part in inducing me to speak thus decidedly, I beg
their attention to the following examination, which shall be as brief as I can make it, of
the seven propositions in which Mr. Gladstone professes to give a faithful summary of my "errors."

When, in the middle of the seventeenth century, the Holy See declared that certain propositions
contained in the work of Bishop Jansen were heretical, the Jansenists of Port Royal replied
that, while they were ready to defer to the Papal authority about questions of faith and morals,
they must be permitted to judge about questions of fact for themselves; and that, really, the
condemned propositions were not to be found in Jansen's writings. As everybody knows, His Holiness
and the Grand Monarque replied to this, surely not unreasonable, plea after the manner of Lord
Peter in the "Tale of a Tub." It is, therefore, not without some apprehension of meeting with
a similar fate, that I put in a like plea against Mr. Gladstone's Bull. The seven propositions
declared to be false and condemnable, in that kindly and gentle way which so pleasantly compares
with the authoritative style of the Vatican (No. 5 more particularly), may or may not be true.
But they are not to be found in anything I have written. And some of them diametrically contravene
that which I have written. I proceed to prove my assertions.

PROP. 1. Throughout the paper he confounds together what I had distinguished, namely, the city
of Gadara and the vicinage attached to it, not as a mere pomoerium, but as a rural district.

In my judgment, this statement is devoid of foundation. In my paper on "The Keepers of the
Herd of Swine" I point out, at some length, that, "in accordance with the ancient Hellenic
practice," each city of the Decapolis must have been "surrounded by a certain amount of territory
amenable to its jurisdiction": and, to enforce this conclusion, I quote what Josephus says
about the "villages that belonged to Gadara and Hippos." As I understand the term pomerium
or pomoerium,[113] it means the space which, according to Roman custom, was kept free from
buildings, immediately within and without the walls of a city; and which defined the range
of the auspicia urbana. The conception of a pomoerium as a "vicinage attached to" a city, appears
to be something quite novel and original. But then, to be sure, I do not know how many senses
Mr. Gladstone may attach to the word "vicinage."

Whether Gadara had a pomoerium, in the proper technical sense, or not, is a point on which
I offer no opinion. But that the city had a very considerable "rural district" attached to
it and notwithstanding its distinctness, amenable to the jurisdiction of the Gentile municipal
authorities, is one of the main points of my case.

PROP. 2. He more fatally confounds the local civil government and its following, including,
perhaps, the whole wealthy class and those attached to it, with the ethnical character of a
general population.

Having survived confusion No. 1, which turns out not to be on my side, I am now confronted
in No. 2 with a "more fatal" error--and so it is, if there be degrees of fatality; but, again,
it is Mr. Gladstone's and not mine. It would appear, from this proposition (about the grammatical
interpretation of which, however, I admit there are difficulties), that Mr. Gladstone holds
that the "local civil government and its following among the wealthy," were ethnically different
from the "general population." On p. 348, he further admits that the "wealthy and the local
governing power" were friendly to the Romans. Are we then to suppose that it was the persons
of Jewish "ethnical character" who favoured the Romans, while those of Gentile "ethnical character"
were opposed to them? But, if that supposition is absurd, the only alternative is that the
local civil government was ethnically Gentile. This is exactly my contention.

At pp. 379 to 391 of the essay on "The Keepers of the Herd of Swine" I have fully discussed
the question of the ethnical character of the general population. I have shown that, according
to Josephus, who surely ought to have known, Gadara was as much a Gentile city as Ptolemais;
I have proved that he includes Gadara amongst the cities "that rose up against the Jews that
were amongst them," which is a pretty definite expression of his belief that the "ethnical
character of the general population" was Gentile. There is no question here of Jews of the
Roman party fighting with Jews of the Zealot party, as Mr. Gladstone suggests. It is the non-Jewish
and anti-Jewish general population which rises up against the Jews who had settled "among them."

PROP. 3. His one item of direct evidence as to the Gentile character of the city refers only
to the former and not to the latter.

More fatal still. But, once more, not to me. I adduce not one, but a variety of "items" in
proof of the non-Judaic character of the population of Gadara: the evidence of history; that
of the coinage of the city; the direct testimony of Josephus, just cited--to mention no others.
I repeat, if the wealthy people and those connected with them--the "classes" and the "hangers
on" of Mr. Gladstone's well-known taxonomy--were, as he appears to admit they were, Gentiles;
if the "civil government" of the city was in their hands, as the coinage proves it was; what
becomes of Mr. Gladstone's original proposition in "The Impregnable Rock of Scripture" that
"the population of Gadara, and still less (if less may be) the population of the neighbourhood,"
were "Hebrews bound by the Mosaic law"? And what is the importance of estimating the precise
proportion of Hebrews who may have resided, either in the city of Gadara or in its independent
territory, when, as Mr. Gladstone now seems to admit (I am careful to say "seems"), the government,
and consequently the law, which ruled in that territory and defined civil right and wrong was
Gentile and not Judaic? But perhaps Mr. Gladstone is prepared to maintain that the Gentile
"local civil government" of a city of the Decapolis administered Jewish law; and showed their
respect for it, more particularly, by stamping their coinage with effigies of the Emperors.

In point of fact, in his haste to attribute to me errors which I have not committed, Mr. Gladstone
has given away his case.

PROP. 4. He fatally confounds the question of political party with those of nationality and
of religion, and assumes that those who took the side of Rome in the factions that prevailed
could not be subject to the Mosaic Law.

It would seem that I have a feline tenacity of life; once more, a "fatal error." But Mr. Gladstone
has forgotten an excellent rule of controversy; say what is true, of course, but mind that
it is decently probable. Now it is not decently probable, hardly indeed conceivable, that any
one who has read Josephus, or any other historian of the Jewish war, should be unaware that
there were Jews (of whom Josephus himself was one) who "Romanised" and, more or less openly,
opposed the war party. But, however that may be, I assert that Mr. Gladstone neither has produced,
nor can produce, a passage of my writing which affords the slightest foundation for this particular
article of his indictment.

PROP. 5. His examination of the text of Josephus is alike one-sided, inadequate, and erroneous.

Easy to say, hard to prove. So long as the authorities whom I have cited are on my side, I
do not know why this singularly temperate and convincing dictum should trouble me. I have yet
to become acquainted with Mr. Gladstone's claims to speak with an authority equal to that of
scholars of the rank of Schürer, whose obviously just and necessary emendations he so unceremoniously
pooh-poohs.

PROP. 6. Finally, he sets aside, on grounds not critical or historical, but partly subjective,
the primary historical testimony on the subject, namely, that of the three Synoptic Evangelists,
who write as contemporaries and deal directly with the subject, neither of which is done by
any other authority.

Really this is too much! The fact is, as anybody can see who will turn to my article of February
1889 [VII. supra], out of which all this discussion has arisen, that the arguments upon which
I rest the strength of my case touching the swine-miracle, are exactly "historical" and "critical."
Expressly, and in words that cannot be misunderstood, I refuse to rest on what Mr. Gladstone
calls "subjective" evidence. I abstain from denying the possibility of the Gadarene occurrence,
and I even go so far as to speak of some physical analogies to possession. In fact, my quondam
opponent, Dr. Wace, shrewdly, but quite fairly, made the most of these admissions; and stated
that I had removed the only "consideration which would have been a serious obstacle" in the
way of his belief in the Gadarene story.[114]

So far from setting aside the authority of the synoptics on "subjective" grounds, I have taken
a great deal of trouble to show that my non-belief in the story is based upon what appears
to me to be evident; firstly, that the accounts of the three synoptic Gospels are not independent,
but are founded upon a common source; secondly, that, even if the story of the common tradition
proceeded from a contemporary, it would still be worthy of very little credit, seeing the manner
in which the legends about mediæval miracles have been propounded by contemporaries. And in
illustration of this position I wrote a special essay about the miracles reported by Eginhard.[115]

In truth, one need go no further than Mr. Gladstone's sixth proposition to be convinced that
contemporary testimony, even of well-known and distinguished persons, may be but a very frail
reed for the support of the historian, when theological prepossession blinds the witness.[116]

PROP. 7. And he treats the entire question, in the narrowed form in which it arises upon secular
testimony, as if it were capable of a solution so clear and summary as to warrant the use of
the extremest weapons of controversy against those who presume to differ from him.

The six heretical propositions which have gone before are enunciated with sufficient clearness
to enable me to prove, without any difficulty, that, whosesoever they are, they are not mine.
But number seven, I confess, is too hard for me. I cannot undertake to contradict that which
I do not understand.

What is the "entire question" which "arises" in a "narrowed form" upon "secular testimony"?
After much guessing, I am fain to give up the conundrum. The "question" may be the ownership
of the pigs; or the ethnological character of the Gadarenes; or the propriety of meddling with
other people's property without legal warrant. And each of these questions might be so "narrowed"
when it arose on "secular testimony" that I should not know where I was. So I am silent on
this part of the proposition.

But I do dimly discern, in the latter moiety of this mysterious paragraph, a reproof of that
use of "the extremest weapons of controversy" which is attributed to me. Upon which I have
to observe that I guide myself, in such matters, very much by the maxim of a great statesman,
"Do ut des." If Mr. Gladstone objects to the employment of such weapons of defence, he would
do well to abstain from them in attack. He should not frame charges which he has, afterwards,
to admit are erroneous, in language of carefully calculated offensiveness ("Impregnable Rock,"
pp. 269-70); he should not assume that persons with whom he disagrees are so recklessly unconscientious
as to evade the trouble of inquiring what has been said or known about a grave question ("Impregnable
Rock," p. 273); he should not qualify the results of careful thought as "hand-over-head reasoning"
("Impregnable Rock," p. 274); he should not, as in the extraordinary propositions which I have
just analysed, make assertions respecting his opponent's position and arguments which are contradicted
by the plainest facts.

Persons who, like myself, have spent their lives outside the political world, yet take a mild
and philosophical concern in what goes on in it, often find it difficult to understand what
our neighbours call the psychological moment of this or that party leader, and are, occasionally,
loth to believe in the seeming conditions of certain kinds of success. And when some chieftain,
famous in political warfare, adventures into the region of letters or of science, in full confidence
that the methods which have brought fame and honour in his own province will answer there,
he is apt to forget that he will be judged by these people, on whom rhetorical artifices have
long ceased to take effect; and to whom mere dexterity in putting together cleverly ambiguous
phrases, and even the great art of offensive misrepresentation, are unspeakably wearisome.
And, if that weariness finds its expression in sarcasm, the offender really has no right to
cry out. Assuredly ridicule is no test of truth, but it is the righteous meed of some kinds
of error. Nor ought the attempt to confound the expression of a revolted sense of fair dealing
with arrogant impatience of contradiction, to restrain those to whom "the extreme weapons of
controversy" come handy from using them. The function of police in the intellectual, if not
in the civil, economy may sometimes be legitimately discharged by volunteers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some time ago in one of the many criticisms with which I am favoured, I met with the remark
that, at our time of life, Mr. Gladstone and I might be better occupied than in fighting over
the Gadarene pigs. And, if these too famous swine were the only parties to the suit, I, for
my part, should fully admit the justice of the rebuke. But, under the beneficent rule of the
Court of Chancery, in former times, it was not uncommon, that a quarrel about a few perches
of worthless land, ended in the ruin of ancient families and the engulfing of great estates;
and I think that our admonisher failed to observe the analogy--to note the momentous consequences
of the judgment which may be awarded in the present apparently insignificant action in re the
swineherds of Gadara.

The immediate effect of such judgment will be the decision of the question, whether the men
of the nineteenth century are to adopt the demonology of the men of the first century, as divinely
revealed truth, or to reject it, as degrading falsity. The reverend Principal of King's College
has delivered his judgment in perfectly clear and candid terms. Two years since, Dr. Wace said
that he believed the story as it stands; and consequently he holds, as a part of divine revelation,
that the spiritual world comprises devils, who, under certain circumstances, may enter men
and be transferred from them to four-footed beasts. For the distinguished Anglican Divine and
Biblical scholar, that is part and parcel of the teachings respecting the spiritual world which
we owe to the founder of Christianity. It is an inseparable part of that Christian orthodoxy
which, if a man rejects, he is to be considered and called an "infidel." According to the ordinary
rules of interpretation of language, Mr. Gladstone must hold the same view.

If antiquity and universality are valid tests of the truth of any belief, no doubt this is
one of the beliefs so certified. There are no known savages, nor people sunk in the ignorance
of partial civilisation, who do not hold them. The great majority of Christians have held them
and still hold them. Moreover the oldest records we possess of the early conceptions of mankind
in Egypt and in Mesopotamia prove that exactly such demonology, as is implied in the Gadarene
story, formed the substratum, and, among the early Accadians, apparently the greater part,
of their supposed knowledge of the spiritual world. M. Lenormant's profoundly interesting work
on Babylonian magic and the magical texts given in the Appendix to Professor Sayce's "Hibbert
Lectures" leave no doubt on this head. They prove that the doctrine of possession, and even
the particular case of pig, possession,[117] were firmly believed in by the Egyptians and the
Mesopotamians before the tribes of Israel invaded Palestine. And it is evident that these beliefs,
from some time after the exile and probably much earlier, completely interpenetrated the Jewish
mind, and thus became inseparably interwoven with the fabric of the synoptic Gospels.

Therefore, behind the question of the acceptance of the doctrines of the oldest heathen demonology
as part of the fundamental beliefs of Christianity, there lies the question of the credibility
of the Gospels, and of their claim to act as our instructors, outside that ethical province
in which they appeal to the consciousness of all thoughtful men. And still, behind this problem,
there lies another--how far do these ancient records give a sure foundation to the prodigious
fabric of Christian dogma, which has been built upon them by the continuous labours of speculative
theologians, during eighteen centuries?

I submit that there are few questions before the men of the rising generation, on the answer
to which the future hangs more fatally, than this. We are at the parting of the ways. Whether
the twentieth century shall see a recrudescence of the superstitions of mediæval papistry,
or whether it shall witness the severance of the living body of the ethical ideal of prophetic
Israel from the carcase, foul with savage superstitions and cankered with false philosophy,
to which the theologians have bound it, turns upon their final judgment of the Gadarene tale.

The gravity of the problems ultimately involved in the discussion of the legend of Gadara will,
I hope, excuse a persistence in returning to the subject, to which I should not have been moved
by merely personal considerations.

With respect to the diluvial invective which overflowed thirty-three pages of the "Nineteenth
Century" last January, I doubt not that it has a catastrophic importance in the estimation
of its author. I, on the other hand, may be permitted to regard it as a mere spate; noisy and
threatening while it lasted, but forgotten almost as soon as it was over. Without my help,
it will be judged by every instructed and clear-headed reader; and that is fortunate, because,
were aid necessary, I have cogent reasons for withholding it.

In an article characterised by the same qualities of thought and diction, entitled "A Great
Lesson," which appeared in the "Nineteenth Century" for September 1887, the Duke of Argyll,
firstly, charged the whole body of men of science, interested in the question, with having
conspired to ignore certain criticisms of Mr. Darwin's theory of the origin of coral reefs;
and, secondly, he asserted that some person unnamed had "actually induced" Mr. John Murray
to delay the publication of his views on that subject "for two years."

It was easy for me and for others to prove that the first statement was not only, to use the
Duke of Argyll's favourite expression, "contrary to fact," but that it was without any foundation
whatever. The second statement rested on the Duke of Argyll's personal authority. All I could
do was to demand the production of the evidence for it. Up to the present time, so far as I
know, that evidence has not made its appearance; nor has there been any withdrawal of, or apology
for, the erroneous charge.

Under these circumstances most people will understand why the Duke of Argyll may feel quite
secure of having the battle all to himself, whenever it pleases him to attack me.

[See the note at the end of "Hasisadra's Adventure" (vol iv. p. 283). The discussion on coral
reefs, at the meeting of the British Association this year, proves that Mr. Darwin's views
are defended now, as strongly as in 1891, by highly competent authorities. October 25, 1893.]

FOOTNOTES:

    [107] Nineteenth Century, February 1891, pp. 339-40.

    [108] Neither is it of any consequence whether the locality
          of the supposed miracle was Gadara, or Gerasa, or
          Gergesa. But I may say that I was well acquainted with
          Origen's opinion respecting Gergesa. It is fully
          discussed and rejected in Riehm's Handwörterbuch. In
          Kitto's Biblical Cyclopædia (ii. p. 51) Professor
          Porter remarks that Origen merely "conjectures" that
          Gergesa was indicated: and he adds, "Now, in a question
          of this kind conjectures cannot be admitted. We must
          implicitly follow the most ancient and creditable
          testimony, which clearly pronounces in favour of
          Gadarênhôn. This reading is adopted by Tischendorf,
          Alford, and Tregelles."

    [109] I may call attention, in passing, to the fact that this
          authority, at any rate, has no sort of doubt of the
          fact that Jewish Law did not rule in Gadara (indeed,
          under the head of "Gadara," in the same work, it is
          expressly stated that the population of the place
          consisted "predominantly of heathens"), and that he
          scouts the notion that the Gadarene swineherds were
          Jews.

    [110] The evidence adduced, so far as post-exile times are
          concerned, appears to me insufficient to prove this
          assertion.

    [111] Even Leviticus xi. 26, cited without reference to the
          context, will not serve the purpose; because the swine
          is "cloven-footed" (Lev. xi. 7).

    [112] 1st Gospel: "And the devils besought him, saying,
          If Thou cast us out send us away into the herd of
          swine." 2d Gospel: "They besought him, saying, Send
          us into the swine." 3d Gospel: "They intreated him
          that he would give them leave to enter into them."

    [113] See Marquardt, Römische Staatsverwaltung, Bd. III.
          p. 408.

    [114] Nineteenth Century, March 1889 (p. 362).

    [115] "The Value of Witness to the Miraculous." Nineteenth
          Century, March 1889. ... ("Agnosticism," Nineteenth
          Century, 1889, p. 177). (ibid. p. 175).

          I then go on through a couple of pages to discuss the
          value of the evidence of the synoptics on critical and
          historical grounds. Mr. Gladstone cites the essay from
          which these passages are taken, whence I suppose he has
          read it; though it may be that he shares the impatience
          of Cardinal Manning where my writings are concerned.
          Such impatience will account for, though it will not
          excuse, his sixth proposition.

    [117] The wicked, before being annihilated, returned to the
          world to disturb men; they entered into the body of
          unclean animals, "often that of a pig, as on the
          Sarcophagus of Seti I. in the Soane
          Museum."--Lenormant, Chaldean Magic, p. 88, Editorial
          Note.

END OF VOL. V

       *       *       *       *       *

THOMAS H. HUXLEY'S WORKS.

Collected. Essays, 12mo, cloth, $1.25 per volume.
  Vol. 1. Method and Results.
    "  2. Darwiniana.
    "  3. Science and Education.
    "  4. Science and Hebrew Tradition.
    "  5. Science and Christian Tradition.
    "  6. Hume.
    "  7. Man's Place in Nature.
    "  8. Discourses, Biological and Geological.
    "  9. Evolution and Ethics, and Other Essays.

The Crayfish:
  An Introduction to the Study of Zoölogy.
  With 82 Illustrations. 12mo, cloth, $1.75.

Manual of the Anatomy of Vertebrated
  Animals. Illustrated. 12mo, cloth, $2.50.

Manual of the Anatomy of Invertebrated
  Animals. Illustrated. 12mo, cloth, $2.50.

Physiography:
  An Introduction to the Study of Nature. With
  Illustrations and Colored Plates. 12mo, cloth, $2.50.

The Origin of Species;
  Or, The Causes of the Phenomena of Nature.
  12mo, cloth, $1.00.

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE BOOK OF THE YEAR."

LIFE AND LETTERS OF THOMAS HENRY HUXLEY
     By his Son, LEONARD HUXLEY.
     In two volumes. Illustrated. 8vo. Cloth, $5.00 net.

     "This very complete revelation of the character and work of
     a man who must be regarded as one of the forces which gave
     character to the nineteenth century will be welcomed by a
     far wider circle of readers than that which is interested in
     Huxley's strictly scientific researches.... These two richly
     interesting volumes are sure to be widely read."--London
     Times.

     "It 'goes without saying' what precious freight was carried
     by Huxley's letters.... These two delightful
     volumes."--London Chronicle.

     "Huxley's life was so full, so active, so many-sided, in
     touch with such a number of interesting people, that this
     work appeals to all sorts and conditions of men.... An
     admirably written biography."--London Standard.

     "His letters are a self-revelation of the man, his work, his
     ambitions, his trials, his views of religion, his
     philosophy, his public activity and domestic happiness....
     Whoso reads these volumes will feel that he knows better a
     man worth knowing, and the number who will read them will be
     great."--London Telegraph.

     "Huxley's career makes a wonderful story."--London Mail.

     "Mr. Leonard Huxley has given the world many extremely
     valuable and interesting letters, all characteristic, and he
     has connected them by a well-written consecutive narrative
     which is sufficient to weave them together."--London News.

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.
       *       *       *       *       *

RECENT BOOKS BY DISTINGUISHED SPECIALISTS.

THE COMPARATIVE PHYSIOLOGY AND MORPHOLOGY OF ANIMALS.
   By Prof. JOSEPH LE CONTE.
   Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth, $2.00.

EVOLUTION BY ATROPHY.
   By JEAN DEMOOR, JEAN MASSART, and ÉMILE VANDERVELDE.
   A new volume in the International Scientific Series.
   12mo, Cloth, $1.50.

FOOT-NOTES TO EVOLUTION.
   A Series of Popular Addresses on the Evolution of Life.
   By DAVID STARR JORDAN, Ph.D.,
   President of Leland Stanford Junior University.
   12mo. Cloth, $1.50.

OUTLINES OF THE EARTH'S HISTORY.
   A Popular Study in Physiography.
   By Prof. N.S. SHALER, of Harvard University.
   Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50.

STUDIES OF GOOD AND EVIL.
   By JOSIAH ROYCE,
   Professor of the History of Philosophy in Harvard University.
   12mo. Cloth, $1.50.

EVOLUTION ETHICS AND ANIMAL PSYCHOLOGY.
   By E.P. EVANS,
   Author of "Animal Symbolism in Ecclesiastical Architecture," etc.
   12mo. Cloth, $1.75.

WAGES AND CAPITAL.
   An Examination of the Wages Fund Doctrine.
   By F.W. TAUSSIG, Professor of Political Economy in Harvard University,
   Author of "Tariff History of the United State" and
   "The Silver Situation in the United States."
   12mo. Cloth, $1.50.

WHAT IS ELECTRICITY?
   By Prof. JOHN TROWBRIDGE, of Harvard University.
   12mo. Cloth, $1.50.

THE PSYCHOLOGY OF SUGGESTION.
   A Research into the Subconscious Nature of Man and Society.
   By BORIS SIDIS, M.A., Ph.D.,
   Associate in Psychology at the Pathological Institute
   of the New York State Hospitals.
   With an Introduction by Prof. William James, of Harvard University.
   Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth, $1.75.

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK

       *       *       *       *       *

SPENCER'S SYNTHETIC PHILOSOPHY, 12mo, cloth, $2.00 per volume.
     NEW EDITION OF
     First Principles.

     By HERBERT SPENCER. New and revised (sixth) edition of the
     first volume of the author's Synthetic Philosophy.

     This fundamental and most important work has been changed in
     substance and in form to a considerable extent, and largely
     rewritten and wholly reset. It is now forty years since the
     author began the "First Principles," and its presentation in
     this definitive form, with the author's last revisions, is
     an event of peculiar interest and consequence. While
     experience has not caused him to recede from the general
     principles set forth, he has made some important changes in
     the substance and form. His amendments of matter and manner
     are now final.

     The contents of the several volumes of the series are as
     follows:

     1. First Principles.
            I. The Unknowable.
           II. The Knowable.

     2. The Principles of Biology. Vol. 1.
           I. The Data of Biology.
          II. The Inductions of Biology.
         III. The Evolution of Life.

     3. The Principles of Biology. Vol. 2.
          IV. Morphological Development.
           V. Physiological Development.
          VI. Laws of Multiplication.

     4. The Principles of Psychology. Vol. 1.
           I. The Data of Psychology.
          II. The Inductions of Psychology.
         III. General Synthesis.
          IV. Special Synthesis.
           V. Physical Synthesis.

     5. The Principles of Psychology. Vol. 2.
          VI. Special Analysis.
         VII. General Analysis.
        VIII. Congruities.
          IX. Corollaries.

     6. The Principles of Sociology. Vol. 1.
           I. The Data of Sociology.
          II. The Inductions of Sociology.
         III. The Domestic Relations.

     7. The Principles of Sociology. Vol. 2.
          IV. Ceremonial Institutions.
           V. Political Institutions.

     8. The Principles of Sociology. Vol. 3.
          VI. Ecclesiastical Institutions.
         VII. Professional Institutions.
        VIII. Industrial Institutions.

     9. The Principles of Ethics. Vol. 1.
           I. The Data of Ethics.
          II. The Inductions of Ethics.
         III. The Ethics of Individual Life.

    10. The Principles of Ethics. Vol. 2.
          IV. The Ethics of Social Life: Justice.
           V. The Ethics of Social Life: Negative Beneficence.
          VI. The Ethics of Social Life: Positive Beneficence.

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS BY PROF. G. FREDERICK WRIGHT.

THE SCIENTIFIC ASPECTS OF CHRISTIAN EVIDENCES.
     By G. FREDERICK WRIGHT, D.D., LL.D., F.G.S.A.,
     Professor of the Harmony of Science and Revelation, Oberlin College;
     Author of "The Logic of Christian Evidences,"
     "The Ice Age in North America," etc.
     Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50.

     This volume contains the ripest fruit of the author's varied
     studies along the several cognate lines of evidence which
     converge with special power in recent times to shed light
     upon the foundations of Christianity. Among the subjects
     discussed are Limits of Scientific Thought, Paradoxes of
     Science, God and Nature, Darwinism and Design, Mediate
     Miracles, Beyond Reasonable Doubt, The Newly Discovered
     External Evidences, The Evidence of Textual Criticism,
     Internal Evidence of the Early Date of the Gospel, and
     Positive Results of the Cumulative Evidence. These chapters
     are an elaboration of the Lowell Institute Lectures
     delivered in Boston in 1896.

GREENLAND ICEFIELDS, AND LIFE IN THE NORTH ATLANTIC.
     With a New Discussion of the Causes of the Ice Age.
     By G. FREDERICK WRIGHT, D.D., LL.D., F.G.S.A., Author of
     "The Ice Age in North America," "Man and the Glacial
     Period," etc., and WARREN UPHAM, A.M., F.G.S.A., late of the
     Geological Surveys of New Hampshire, Minnesota, and the
     United States. With numerous Maps and Illustrations. 12mo.
     Cloth, $2.00.

THE ICE AGE IN NORTH AMERICA, and its Bearings upon the Antiquity of Man.
     With an Appendix on "The Probable Cause of Glaciation," by
     WARREN UPHAM, F.G.S.A., Assistant on the Geological Surveys
     of New Hampshire, Minnesota, and the United States. New and
     enlarged edition. With 150 Maps and Illustrations. 8vo, 625
     pages, and Index. Cloth, $5.00.

MAN AND THE GLACIAL PERIOD.
     International Scientific Series.
     With numerous Illustrations. 12mo. Cloth, $1.75.

     "The earlier chapters describing glacial action, and the
     traces of it in North America--especially the defining of
     its limits, such as the terminal moraine of the great
     movement itself--are of great interest and value The maps
     and diagrams are of much assistance in enabling the reader
     to grasp the vast extent of the movement."--London
     Spectator.

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.

       *       *       *       *       *

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY'S PUBLICATIONS.

MISCELLANEOUS WORKS OF HERBERT SPENCER.

SOCIAL STATICS.
     New and revised edition, including "The Man versus The
     State." A series of essays on political tendencies
     heretofore published separately. 12mo. 420 pages. Cloth,
     $2.00.

     "Mr. Spencer has thoroughly studied the issues which are
     behind the social and political life of our own time, not
     exactly those issues which are discussed in Parliament or in
     Congress, but the principles of all modern government, which
     are slowly changing in response to the broader industrial
     and general development of human experience. One will obtain
     no suggestions out of his book for guiding a political party
     or carrying a point in economics, but he will find the
     principles of sociology, as they pertain to the whole of
     life, better stated in these pages than he can find them
     expressed anywhere else. It is in this sense that this work
     is important and fresh and vitalizing. It goes constantly to
     the foundation of things."--Boston Herald.

VARIOUS FRAGMENTS,
     12mo. Cloth, $1.25.

     Along with a considerable variety of other matter, these
     "Fragments" include a number of replies to criticisms, among
     which will be found some of the best specimens of Mr.
     Spencer's controversial writings, notably his letter to the
     London Athenæum on Professor Huxley's famous address on
     Evolutionary Ethics. His views on copyright, national and
     international, "Social Evolution and Social Duty," and
     "Anglo-American Arbitration," also form a part of the
     contents.

EDUCATION: Intellectual, Moral, and Physical.
     12mo. Paper, 50 cents; cloth, $1.25.

     CONTENTS: What Knowledge is of most Worth? Intellectual
     Education. Moral Education. Physical Education.

THE STUDY OF SOCIOLOGY.
     The fifth volume in the International scientific Series.
     12mo. Cloth, $1.50.

     CONTENTS: Our need of it. Is there a Social Science? Nature
     of the Social Science. Difficulties of the Social Science.
     Objective Difficulties. Subjective Difficulties,
     Intellectual. Subjective Difficulties, Emotional, The
     Educational Bias. The Bias of Patriotism. The Class Bias.
     The Political Bias. The Theological Bias. Discipline.
     Preparation in Biology. Preparation in Psychology.
     Conclusion.

THE INADEQUACY OF "NATURAL SELECTION."
     12mo. Paper, 30 cents.

     This essay, in which Professor Weismann's theories are
     criticised, is reprinted from the Contemporary Review, and
     comprises a forcible presentation of Mr. Spencer's views
     upon the general subject indicated in the title.

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.

       *       *       *       *       *

PIONEERS OF SCIENCE IN AMERICA.
     Sketches of their Lives and Scientific Work.
     Edited and revised by WILLIAM JAY YOUMANS, M.D.
     With Portraits. 8vo, Cloth, $4.00.

     Impelled solely by an enthusiastic love of Nature, and
     neither asking nor receiving outside aid, these early
     workers opened the way and initiated the movement through
     which American science has reached its present commanding
     position. This book gives some account of these men, their
     early struggles, their scientific labors, and, whenever
     possible, something of their personal characteristics. This
     information, often very difficult to obtain, has been
     collected from a great variety of sources, with the utmost
     care to secure accuracy. It is presented in a series of
     sketches, some fifty in all, each with a single exception
     accompanied with a well-authenticated portrait.

     "Fills a place that needed filling, and is likely to be
     widely read."--N.Y. Sun.

     "It is certainly a useful and convenient volume, and
     readable too, if we judge correctly of the degree of
     accuracy of the whole by critical examination of those cases
     in which our own knowledge enables us to form an opinion....
     In general, it seems to us that the handy volume is
     specially to be commended for setting in just historical
     perspective many of the earlier scientists who are neither
     very generally nor very well known."--New York Evening
     Post.

     "A wonderfully interesting volume. Many a young man will
     find it fascinating. The compilation of the book is a work
     well done, well worth the doing."--Philadelphia Press.

     "One of the most valuable books which we have
     received."--Boston Advertiser.

     "A book of no little educational value.... An extremely
     valuable work of reference."--Boston Beacon.

     "A valuable handbook for those whose work runs on these same
     lines, and is likely to prove of lasting interest to those
     for whom 'les documents humain' are second only to history
     in importance--nay, are a vital part of history."--Boston
     Transcript.

     "A biographical history of science in America, noteworthy
     for its completeness and scope.... All of the sketches are
     excellently prepared and unusually interesting."--Chicago
     Record.

     "One of the most valuable contributions to American
     literature recently made.... The pleasing style in which
     these sketches are written, the plans taken to secure
     accuracy, and the information conveyed, combine to give them
     great value and interest. No better or more inspiring
     reading could be placed in the hands of an intelligent and
     aspiring young man."--New York Christian Work.

     "A book whose interest and value are not for to-day or
     to-morrow, but for indefinite time."--Rochester Herald.

     "It is difficult to imagine a reader of ordinary
     intelligence who would not be entertained by the book....
     Conciseness, exactness, urbanity of tone, and
     interestingness are the four qualities which chiefly impress
     the reader of these sketches."--Buffalo Express.

     "Full of interesting and valuable matter."--The Churchman.

New York: D. APPLETON & CO., 72 Fifth Avenue.

       *       *       *       *       *

PIONEERS OF EVOLUTION, from Thales to Huxley.
     By EDWARD CLODD, President of the Folk-Lore Society;
     Author of "The Story of Creation,"
     "The Story of 'Primitive' Man," etc.
     With Portraits. 12mo. Cloth. $1.50.

     "The mass of interesting material which Mr. Clodd has got
     together and woven into a symmetrical story of the progress
     from ignorance and theory to knowledge and the intelligent
     recording of fact is prodigious.... The 'goal' to which Mr.
     Clodd leads us in so masterly a fashion is but the starting
     point of fresh achievements, and, in due course, fresh
     theories. His book furnishes an important contribution to a
     liberal education."--London Daily Chronicle.

     "We are always glad to meet Mr. Clodd. He is never dull; he
     is always well informed, and he says what he has to say with
     clearness and precision.... The interest intensifies as Mr.
     Clodd attempts to show the part really played in the growth
     of the doctrine of evolution by men like Wallace, Darwin,
     Huxley, and Spencer.... We commend the book to those who
     want to know what evolution really means."--London Times.

     "This is a book which was needed.... Altogether, the book
     could hardly be better done. It is luminous, lucid, orderly,
     and temperate. Above all, it is entirely free from personal
     partisanship. Each chief actor is sympathetically treated,
     and friendship is seldom or never allowed to overweight
     sound judgment."--London Academy.

     "We can assure the reader that he will find in this work a
     very useful guide to the lives and labors of leading
     evolutionists of the past and present. Especially
     serviceable is the account of Mr. Herbert Spencer and his
     share in rediscovering evolution, and illustrating its
     relations to the whole field of human knowledge. His
     forcible style and wealth of metaphor make all that Mr.
     Clodd writes arrestive and interesting."--London Literary
     World.

     "Can not but prove welcome to fair-minded men.... To read it
     is to have an object-lesson in the meaning of evolution....
     There is no better book on the subject for the general
     reader.... No one could go through the book without being
     both refreshed and newly instructed by its masterly survey
     of the growth of the most powerful idea of modern
     times."--The Scotsman.

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.

       *       *       *       *       *

EVOLUTION OF MAN AND CHRISTIANITY.
     New edition. By the Rev. HOWARD MACQUEARY.
     With a new Preface, in which the Author answers his Critics,
     and with some important Additions. 12mo. Cloth, $1.75.

     "This is a revised and enlarged edition of a book published
     last year. The author reviews criticisms upon the first
     edition, denies that he rejects the doctrine of the
     incarnation, admits his doubts of the physical resurrection
     of Christ, and his belief in evolution. The volume is to be
     marked as one of the most profound expressions of the modern
     movement toward broader theological positions."--Brooklyn
     Times.

     "He does not write with the animus of the destructive
     school; he intends to be, and honestly believes he is, doing
     a work of construction, or at least of reconstruction.... He
     writes with manifest earnestness and conviction, and in a
     style which is always clear and energetic."--Churchman.

HISTORY OF THE CONFLICT BETWEEN RELIGION AND SCIENCE.
     By Dr. JOHN WILLIAM DRAPER.
     12mo. Cloth, $1.75.

     "The key-note to this volume is found in the antagonism
     between the progressive tendencies of the human mind and the
     pretensions of ecclesiastical authority, as developed in the
     history of modern science. No previous writer has treated
     the subject from this point of view, and the present
     monograph will be found to possess no less originality of
     conception than vigor of reasoning and wealth of
     erudition."--New York Tribune.

A CRITICAL HISTORY OF FREE THOUGHT IN REFERENCE TO THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION.
     By Rev. Canon ADAM STOREY FARRAR, D.D., F.R.S., etc.
     12mo. Cloth, $2.00.

     "A conflict might naturally be anticipated between the
     reasoning faculties of man and a religion which claims the
     right, on superhuman authority, to impose limits on the
     field or manner of their exercise. It is the chief of the
     movements of free thought which it is my purpose to
     describe, in their historic succession, and their connection
     with intellectual causes. We must ascertain the facts,
     discover the causes, and read the moral."--The Author.

CREATION OR EVOLUTION? A Philosophical Inquiry.
     By GEORGE TICKNOR CURTIS,
     12mo. Cloth, $2.00.

     "A treatise on the great question of Creation or Evolution
     by one who is neither a naturalist nor theologian, and who
     does not profess to bring to the discussion a special
     equipment in either of the sciences which the controversy
     arrays against each other, may seem strange at first sight;
     but Mr. Curtis will satisfy the reader, before many pages
     have been turned, that he has a substantial contribution to
     make to the debate, and that his book is one to be treated
     with respect. His part is to apply to the reasonings of the
     men of science the rigid scrutiny with which the lawyer is
     accustomed to test the value and pertinency of testimony,
     and the legitimacy of inferences from established
     facts."--New York Tribune.

     "Mr. Curtis's book is honorably distinguished from a sadly
     too great proportion of treatises which profess to discuss
     the relation of scientific theories to religion, by its
     author's thorough acquaintance with his subject, his
     scrupulous fairness, and remarkable freedom from
     passion."--London Literary World.

D. APPLETON & CO., 72 Fifth Avenue, New York.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WARFARE OF SCIENCE WITH THEOLOGY.
A History of the Warfare of Science with Theology in Christendom.
     By ANDREW D. WHITE, LL.D., late President and
     Professor of History at Cornell University.
     In two volumes. 8vo. Cloth, $5.00.

     "The story of the struggle of searchers after truth with the
     organized forces of ignorance, bigotry, and superstition is
     the most inspiring chapter in the whole history of mankind.
     That story has never been better told than by the
     ex-President of Cornell University in these two volumes....
     A wonderful story it is that he tells."--London Daily
     Chronicle.

     "A literary event of prime importance is the appearance of
     'A History of the Warfare of Science with Theology in
     Christendom.'"--Philadelphia Press.

     "Such an honest and thorough treatment of the subject in all
     its bearings that it will carry weight and be accepted as an
     authority in tracing the process by which the scientific
     method has come to be supreme in modern thought and
     life."--Boston Herald.

     "A great work of a great man upon great subjects, and will
     always be a religio-scientific classic."--Chicago Evening
     Post.

     "It is graphic, lucid, even-tempered--never bitter nor
     vindictive. No student of human progress should fail to read
     these volumes. While they have about them the fascination of
     a well-told tale, they are also crowded with the facts of
     history that have had a tremendous bearing upon the
     development of the race."--Brooklyn Eagle.

     "The same liberal spirit that marked his public life is seen
     in the pages of his book, giving it a zest and interest that
     can not fail to secure for it hearty commendation and honest
     praise."--Philadelphia Public Ledger.

     "A conscientious summary of the body of learning to which it
     relates accumulated during long years of research.... A
     monument of industry."--N.Y. Evening Post.

     "A work which constitutes in many ways the most instructive
     review that has ever been written of the evolution of human
     knowledge in its conflict with dogmatic belief.... As a
     contribution to the literature of liberal thought, the book
     is one the importance of which can not be easily
     overrated."--Boston Beacon.

     "The most valuable contribution that has yet been made to
     the history of the conflicts between the theologists and the
     scientists."--Buffalo Commercial.

     "Undoubtedly the most exhaustive treatise which has been
     written on this subject.... Able, scholarly, critical,
     impartial in tone and exhaustive in treatment."--Boston
     Advertiser.

New York: D. APPLETON & CO., 72 Fifth Avenue.

       *       *       *       *       *

A NEW BOOK BY PROF. GROOS.

THE PLAY OF MAN.
     By KARL GROOS, Professor of Philosophy in the University of
     Basel, and author of "The Play of Animals." Translated, with
     the author's cooperation, by Elizabeth L. Baldwin, and
     edited, with a Preface and Appendix, by Prof. J. Mark
     Baldwin, of Princeton University. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50 net;
     postage, 12 cents additional.

     The results of Professor Groos's original and acute
     investigations are of peculiar value to those who are
     interested in psychology and sociology, and they are of
     great importance to educators. He presents the
     anthropological aspects of the subject treated in his
     psychological study of the Play of Animals, which has
     already become a classic. Professor Groos, who agrees with
     the followers of Weismann, develops the great importance of
     the child's play as tending to strengthen his inheritance in
     the acquisition of adaptations to his environment. The
     influence of play on character, and its relation to
     education, are suggestively indicated. The playful
     manifestations affecting the child himself and those
     affecting his relations to others have been carefully
     classified, and the reader is led from the simpler exercises
     of the sensory apparatus through a variety of divisions to
     inner imitations and social play. The biological, æsthetic,
     ethical, and pedagogical standpoints receive much attention
     from the investigator. While this book is an illuminating
     contribution to scientific literature, it is of eminently
     practical value. Its illustrations and lessons will be
     studied and applied by educators, and the importance of this
     original presentation of a most fertile subject will be
     appreciated by parents as well as by those who are
     interested as general students of sociological and
     psychological themes.

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.

