Hawkins. Well, I don't care, I will be paid for it. Come, Bentley, give me your squirrel, and
I'll think no more about it.

Bentley. A likely matter.

Hawkins. Well, then, I am resolved you shall pay me.

Bentley. Very well, I will pay you in the manner I mentioned.

Hawkins. Don't you believe it: if you can't pay me now, I will take the Squirrel.

He then snatched me from him, and carried me down stairs, where he met a boy named Lively,
to whom he showed me; and both walking up to a bench that was placed under the study window,
where Mr. Clarkson generally was, Hawkins began the conversation which will be related in the
next chapter.

CHAPTER VII.

Hawkins. I told you I should get it. Poor Bentley!

Lively. Why how could you get it?

Hawkins. I put my bottle and bason close to the cage, so that when he went to take out his
squirrel, down they came, and broke to pieces. I went up and demanded payment, which he not
being able to give me, I took his squirrel, which he held on his hand all the time we talked.

Lively. Upon my word, I think you did wrong.

Hawkins. What! are you one of those fools who are afraid of doing wrong. However, you see I
have got something by doing wrong.----

"And you shall get something more by doing wrong," cried a voice. Hawkins turned round, and
saw his master, who had been standing at the window ever since they began to talk. "Give me
that squirrel," continued Mr. Clarkson. Hawkins held me out to him with great reluctance. Mr.
Clarkson then carried me into the school-room, and calling for Bentley, gave me to him, telling
him, loud enough for Hawkins to hear him, that Hawkins would get much more by doing wrong,
than he would by doing right, for he should get a very hearty flogging that afternoon. He likewise
commended Lively for not agreeing with Hawkins. Bentley then carried me to his room again,
packed me up, (in my cage,) and sent me by the stage to his sister, who lived at Stamford in
Lincolnshire, and was very intimate with Miss Huntley. My reception was a very good one. Louisa
Bentley was very fond of me, and always took care I should have plenty of food. She had invited
a party of young ladies to see her that very afternoon: their names were, Miss Wilson, Miss
Clark, Miss Smith, Miss Newman, and Miss Huntley.

When these young ladies were all seated, their conversation was as follows.

Miss Bentley. O, Miss Huntley, I had such a present made me to-day. My good brother always
sends me some present from school, between the holidays; but this last, is the best he ever
sent me. Only look, what a pretty squirrel! What makes you sigh, Miss Huntley?

Miss Huntley. Your squirrel puts me in mind of one I had lately. Young Eaton came to drink
tea with us before he went to school, when he let the squirrel out, and it jumped out of the
window.

Miss Clark. Were you not very angry?

Miss Newman. I am sure I should have been very angry indeed; and, I think, not without a cause.

Miss Smith. He is always doing mischief, I think. It was but on Friday, when he came to see
us, that he killed my canary bird, by putting a shot in the place where the seeds were, which
stuck in its throat, and it died in a few minutes.

Miss Clark. And what did he say, when he saw he had killed it?

Miss Smith. He only laughed, and said he did not know it could not eat shot.

Miss Wilson. Perhaps he took it for an ostrich, and thought it could eat lead and iron. I do
not wonder at it; for, in my opinion, he is foolish enough to think any thing.

Miss Huntley. I have been looking at your squirrel, Miss Bentley, for some time; will you be
kind enough to tell me where you got it? O, I remember, you said your brother sent it you,
so it cannot be the same; but every mark on it is exactly like mine.

Miss Bentley. Suppose I write to him, and ask him where he got it. I assure you, if it is yours,
you shall have it. I dare say my brother got it fairly.

Miss Huntley. My dear Louisa, I would not take it from you on any account: I only wish to know
that it has not died a violent death.

Miss Newman. Poor creature! I hope it has not. I would much rather see any favourite bird or
squirrel die, than that they should escape.

Miss Clark. My brother never sends me such presents. Yes, once, indeed, to do him justice,
he sent me a present you would not guess, if you were to try from morning till night. He goes
to school about two miles off, and the week before last, he sent me, in the baker's cart, an
ugly monkey: such a great creature. He began clambering over the chairs and tables; so I sent
it back, with a letter, in which I told him, monkeys were not presents for young ladies, and
that he could better take care of his brother than I could. Don't you think I was pretty severe
upon him, Miss Newman?

Miss Newman. Yes, indeed, I think you was. But, my dear girl, you forget that you was just
as severe upon yourself; for as you are brother and sister, the monkey cannot be brother to
one of you, without being brother to the other.

Miss Clark. Miss Newman, I assure you I don't understand such usage: I did not come here to
be called names. I think my question was not uncivil.

Miss Newman. And I think I answered you as civilly as I could, Miss Smith, do you think I could
have given a more civil answer?

Miss Smith. No, indeed, I do not.

Miss Clark. Well, ladies, I see you are all against me, so I had better take my leave. Here
Mrs. Bentley entering, put a stop to Miss Clark's resolution, by proposing a game at forfeits,
for she readily consented to be of the party. I took the opportunity to fall asleep, and when
I awoke, the following letter was lying by my cage.

  My dear Brother,

  I am so much obliged to you for your present, that I cannot
  express my thanks: I believe I shall best be able to do that
  when I see you. I had some young ladies to see me yesterday,
  among them was Miss Huntley, who has begged me to write to
  satisfy her curiosity. She would, therefore, take it as a
  favour, if you would tell me where you got it; as it is very
  like one she had, which made its escape. O, my dear brother,
  I wish you was at home. I have so many things to say to you, I
  don't know how to say them in letter; for, let people say what
  they will, it is easier to talk than to write a letter; so
  must conclude this, from

  Your affectionate sister,

  Louisa Bentley.

CHAPTER VIII.

I shall pass over a few days, which I spent very comfortably, and give you her brother's answer;
for she took me out of my cage so often, (seeing I was tame,) that I had frequent opportunities
of seeing and reading every thing I chose. It was as follows.

  "Dear Sister,

  "I am very glad my last present met with your approbation. I
  endeavoured to find who brought it into the school, as soon
  as I had read your letter. It appears to be young Eaton: I
  believe you know him. I bought it of him, and after several
  escapes from losing it, I resolved to send it you, which
  succeeded just as I could have wished. Present my duty to my
  papa and mamma, and I remain, dear sister,

  "Your's, affectionately,

  "Benjamin Bentley."

As soon as Louisa had received this letter, she invited Miss Huntley; and I could clearly hear
the following dialogue.

Miss Bentley. Well! I wrote to my brother, to enquire about the squirrel, and here is his answer:
read it.

Miss Huntley. (having read it.) My dear Louisa I am shocked. I did not think William Eaton
could have been guilty of an action so mean. You know I told you, when I was here last, he
opened the cage and said the squirrel had jumped out of the window. Now he went to school the
next day, therefore he must have taken it. I always thought he loved a little mischief, but
had not an idea he could do such a thing as this.

Miss Bentley. And very likely all this was for the gain of a couple of shillings, or some such
trifle. But, however, the squirrel is your's, Miss Huntley, so I beg you will accept of it.

Miss Huntley. I think, Miss Bentley, I had better not take it, as it will cause questions which
may discover young Eaton's guilt, and I should not wish to take away his character. I think
the best way will be to write him a letter; and tell him how sorry I am at finding how I lost
my squirrel, but that, as I know who has it, I shall think no more of it.

Miss Bentley. My dear Miss Huntley, you will act nobly; and much kinder, I am sure, than he
deserves. Suppose you write it now, here is every thing necessary.

Miss Huntley then wrote the letter, and when she had finished, she read it aloud.

  "Sir,

  "When you favoured us with your company, the night before you
  went to school, had any body told me you had the least thought
  of doing what I have lately found you did, I should have
  thought it an impossibility. Believe me, the loss of the
  squirrel does not grieve me half so much as the manner in
  which I have lately heard I lost it. Miss Bentley, sister to
  one of your schoolfellows, has it, and would freely give it
  me; and as that is all I wished to know, (as I was afraid it
  might meet a violent death,) I shall very willingly let it
  remain with her; for if I should take it, it might breed
  questions which would not be quite agreeable. And now let me
  conclude this letter with assuring you, that, as I trust you
  have sense enough to be sorry for what you have done, I shall
  think no more of it, than if it never had happened.

  "Isabella Huntley."

This letter was then sent, and Miss Huntley look her leave.

I am now coming to that part of my life which I look back upon with horror. Nothing particular
happened till the time arrived when young gentlemen leave school, to go and be merry by the
fireside for six weeks. William Eaton had not lost any of his malice; and therefore, I suppose,
thought me as proper an object to vent it on as he could find. He thought, by killing me, (as
I heard him say,) to end all farther trouble, and put a stop to all their enquiries, by bringing
me home dead. For he had formed such a design, I shudder when I think of it. I suppose he had
bribed the maid before, for early one morning he was at the door, which the maid seeing, she
took me out of my cage, and gave me to him, after she had cut off a bit of my tail, to make
it appear the cat had eat me. He took me home, and called his dog into the garden, where he
let me go, and sent the dog after me. The dog presently caught me, and lucky it was, he did
not kill me the first gripe; for his master (seeing he caught me so soon, as he wanted to have
had some fun, as he termed it) threw a stone at him, which hit him on the head, and laid him
flat on the ground. I seized the opportunity, and ran up the garden wall, from whence I jumped,
frightened almost out my wits. I continued running till I came to a very large orchard. I mounted
a cherry tree, and eat one or two cherries, which a little recovered me. After I had been in
the tree a little time, two men entered the orchard with sacks, which they filled with what
fruit came first to hand, and were going away. The owner of the orchard happened to be riding
by the place, and called to them to know their business. At that instant the men happened to
lift up their eyes, and seeing me, answered, they came to catch me, and asked if they might
not climb the tree for that purpose.

Owner. Yes, after you have emptied your sacks. So empty them this minute.

The men then turned every thing out of their sacks.

Owner. Well, have you caught the squirrel? Hey-day! were you going to catch the squirrel with
two sacks full of fruit? Now, gentlemen, you will both be kind enough to march out of this
orchard: and if ever you are caught in here again you shall certainly go to gaol.

The men then went away, which recovered me from my second fright; for I expected, every minute,
they would climb and take me. However, I was agreeably disappointed.

I then descended, and ran out of the orchard as fast as I could, till I found myself so hungry,
I determined to trust myself once more to somebody that looked good-natured, if I could see
any body I thought looked so. While I was thinking, a stage came by, so (at random) I gave
a leap into the basket, where I found a few crumbs of bread. I remained very quiet till the
stage suddenly broke down. I thought it high time to quit my seat, so jumped out, and crept
into an old lady's pocket, who was lying amongst the rest on the road. Fortunately, nobody
was hurt, and the coachman sent somebody for a post chaise, which soon arrived. We all crowded
in, till it was full. My mistress happened to get an inside place, and we went off laughing
at the disaster. At last we came to London, where I did not dare stir from the pocket of the
lady, so kept my place with great composure. My mistress, for so I shall call her, was then
put into another stage, and after a journey of about four miles, she stopped at a very handsome
house. My mistress being in a great hurry to get out and compose herself, opened the coach
door herself, but not having sufficient power, her foot slipped and she fell out. I was so
alarmed at this, that I scrambled out of her pocket, and made the best of my way towards the
house door, where I certainly should have entered, had I not heard the different mews of half
a dozen cats. Those sounds were not very pleasing to me, so I ran off unperceived; for the
confusion at the garden door was not yet at an end. I had not run far, before I met a man with
a pair of very large boots in his hand. He unfortunately spied me, and taking me up, put me
into one of them, and thrust me down into the foot. He had walked within a mile of the fields
where you were when you first became possessed of me, when he set the boots down, and began
fighting with a man he had been quarrelling with some part of the way, I jumped out of my place
of confinement, and ran till I came to the place where you were sitting, and being very hungry,
I ventured to creep into your pocket, and trust to your generosity. Here the pretty fellow
ceased. "And you shall find," said I, "I will endeavour to deserve that trust, by making you
as happy as I possibly can."

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, my dear Anne, I presume it will be unnecessary for me to inform you, that the foregoing
history is only an imaginary one of my own invention; but such as we may suppose a squirrel
might relate, if he were endowed with reason and speech. Your good sense will suggest to you
that the amiable characters herein depicted are meant as examples for imitation; and that the
conduct of the vicious is to be disapproved of and avoided.

I remain your affectionate friend,

R. S. S.

Printed by Darton and Harvey, Gracechurch-street.

Illustrations within the main text of this ebook have been moved to their appropriate page
numbers, as referenced in the original text.

Spelling and grammar variations (for example: your's, scissars, staid/stayed, bason, ceremoney,
Mrs. Grevilles/Mrs. Greville's, had fell down, was broke to pieces, had eat me, came and drink
tea) have been preserved to match the original 1807 text.

The following typographical corrections have been made in this ebook:

   Page 6: Removed duplicate word 'he' (he took off the chain)

  Page 22: Removed duplicate word 'and' (and singed me sadly)

  Page 23: Added missing period (thing Mrs. Dixon did)

  Page 26: Changed 'happenned' to 'happened' (happened to enter)

  Page 28: Changed 'Bummble' to 'Bumble' (Mrs. Bumble)

