It had seemed to him, as two weeks before he had ridden away from the court house--sitting
on the seat of the buckboard beside Neil Norton, his suitcases tucked snugly away underneath--that
he was once and for all severing his connection with the big, bustling world in which he had
moved; in whose busy scenes he had been so vitally interested. His had been a big work; seated
at his desk in the "city" room of his newspaper he had many times likened himself unto an argus-eyed
recording angel whose business it was to keep in view each of the many atoms of a busy multitude
and to accord to them that amount of space that their importance seemed to demand. He had loved
his work; it had broadened him, had provided him with exactly the proportion of mental exercise
needed to keep him on edge and in a position to enjoy life. He had lived in the East--really
lived. Out here he would merely exist, though, he assured himself grimly, his enemies would
have to pay dearly for his sacrifice.

The picture of his journey to the Circle Bar ranch was still fresh in his mind as he rode slowly
away from Neil Norton, whom he had left sitting in his saddle on a ridge, watching him. The
long twilight had brought its lengthening shadows that night before Norton had struck the Circle
Bar trail, and before they had traveled a mile of the ten that lay before them night had come.
Hollis had been little inclined to talk and Norton did not disturb him, but gave his attention
to the horses. There had been no moon and few stars, and darkness, as under a blanket, had
settled over them before they were many miles from Dry Bottom.

The country seemed nothing more than a vast plain, broken here and there by ridges and depressions.
Occasionally a low hill loomed out of the darkness, the shadows deepening around it; now and
then the buckboard passed through a draw, the wheels sinking hub-deep in the loose sand. Several
dry arroyos crossed the trail, but with a knowledge that seemed almost marvelous Norton cleverly
avoided these pitfalls. Hollis could not see a foot ahead, but the location of the trail seemed
to be no mystery to the range boss, for he drove the horses steadily on, hesitating for nothing.

Once during the ride Norton broke the silence with a subdued cackle of mirth, and at another
time he laughed aloud.

"I'd liked to have seen Big Bill when you hit him!" he observed, regret in his voice. "I reckon
he might have been just a little surprised!"

To which Hollis made no reply. At another time Norton broke the silence long enough to inquire:

"I reckon mebbe you wouldn't have hit him so hard if you'd knowed who he was?"

"I think I should have hit a little harder," returned Hollis quietly.

"Why, hell!" declared Norton with a laugh; "I reckon you would have done just that!"

About ten o'clock they came in sight of some straggling posts, and Norton assured Hollis that
the posts were strung with wire, forming a fence which skirted one side of the Circle Bar pasture.
A few minutes later a dog barked and at Norton's call came bounding up to the buckboard, yipping
joyously. Hollis could make out his shape as he cavorted about.

"My dog," offered the range boss. "Half wolf, the other half just dog." He chuckled over his
joke. "Best dog you ever see," he boasted; "money couldn't buy him. Like dogs?"

Hollis nodded and then realizing that Norton could not see him in the darkness, voiced a quick
"yes".

In the distance Hollis saw a sudden square of light illuminate the wall of darkness into which
they had been driving; a door had been opened. Evidently the dog's barking had aroused the
inmates of the building, for as the buckboard drew nearer Hollis saw several figures flit out
of the door-way. Norton drove the horses close to the building and brought them to a halt with
a sonorous "whoa"! Then he turned to Hollis and spoke with a drawl: "This here building is
the Circle Bar bunkhouse; them's some of your men."

Hollis remarked the size of the building and Norton laughed grimly. "There was a time when
it wasn't any too big," he said. "Five years ago your dad had twenty-seven men on the pay-roll.
If Dunlavey an' his damn association hadn't showed up he'd have had them yet." He turned toward
three men who were lounging in the doorway. "Hey, you guys!" he yelled; "this here's your new
boss. If you-all ain't glued there you might grab his grips an' tote them up to the ranchhouse.
Tell the missus that I'll be along directly with the boss."

Amusement over the Southern twang that marked Norton's speech filled Hollis. He had noticed
it before and it had made plain to him the reason of Norton's unhurried movements, his slow
humor, his habit of quiet scrutiny.

But he had little time for reflection. At Norton's words two men sprang forward to the buckboard
and he saw his suitcases disappear into the darkness in the direction of a light that he now
saw flickering from some little distance. He jumped out of the buckboard and saw another man
spring to the horses' heads and lead them away into the darkness. Then he followed Norton into
the light from the open doorway. Presently he was shaking hands with a man who stood there,
whose chief articles of raiment were overalls, boots, and a woolen shirt. Almost instantly,
it seemed, two of the others had returned and Norton was introducing them as "Ace," "Lanky,"
and "Weary." These pseudonyms were picturesque and descriptive, though at the time Hollis was
in a state of pained incomprehension concerning them. Later he was informed that Ace had been
so named on account of having once been caught slipping a playing card of that character into
his bootleg during a game of poker. Incidentally--Hollis was told--gun-play had resulted. That
Ace was still active proved that the other man might have profited by keeping his knowledge
to himself. Obviously, Lanky deserved his appellation--he was a trifle over six feet tall and
proportioned like a young sapling. Weary had been born tired--so Hollis was told by the latter's
defamers; defamers, for later Hollis discovered that no man in the outfit could show more surprising
agility on occasion than this same Weary.

Hollis found himself inside the bunkhouse, where he was critically inspected by the three men--and
before he left, by the fourth, who answered to the name of "Bud." Norton told him that these
four comprised his outfit--Bud acting as blacksmith. Hollis remained with the men only long
enough to announce that there would be no change; that he intended to hang on and fight for
his rights. When Norton told them that Hollis had already begun the fight by slugging Dunlavey
and Yuma Ed, the enthusiasm of the four men was unbounded. They assured him profanely that
they were with him to the "finish"--whatever it might be. After which Hollis departed to the
ranchhouse.

He found Mrs. Norton to be a pleasant faced woman of twenty-seven or eight, who had--according
to Norton--"bossed him for seven years." Norton grinned hugely over his wife's embarrassed protest.

"I haven't 'bossed' him," she told Hollis, while Norton looked on with amusement, "though there
have been times when he richly deserved it." There was a spirited flash in the lady's eyes
as she looked at her lord.

"I don't wish to take sides in any marital controversy," Hollis told them. "I don't care to
parade my ignorance. However," he smiled, with a wink at Norton, "most men need a boss, if
for no other reason than to teach them the value of discipline."

"There!" said Mrs. Norton with a triumphant laugh, and immediately left the two men and went
into the kitchen.

After partaking of a hearty meal Hollis and Norton went out on the porch for a smoke and a
talk, and it was near midnight when Hollis tumbled into bed, distinctly pleased with the range
boss and his admirable wife. He was asleep within five minutes.

The sun was streaming into his window when he hopped out of bed the next morning, refreshed
and eager to make a trip of inspection over his property. He came down stairs lightly, in the
hope of being able to slip outside without disturbing anybody, but upon opening the stair door
he was surprised to find the cloth on the table in the dining room already spread and hot food
steaming upon it. Mrs. Norton was bustling about from the kitchen to the dining room. Evidently
the Nortons had been astir for hours.

Mrs. Norton smilingly directed him to a wash basin on a bench just outside the door and stood
in the opening a moment, watching him as he drenched his face with the cold water. There was
in her manner only the solicitous concern of the hostess whose desire is to place a guest at
ease. Hollis decided that Norton had been most fortunate in his choice of a "boss."

"Neil has gone down into the big basin to look after the men," she told him from the doorway.
"I don't expect him to return for some little time. Come in to breakfast when you are ready."

To his protest that he would wait until Norton's return before breakfasting she replied with
a smile that her husband had already breakfasted, telling him also that in this part of the
country everyone rose with the sun.

He stood on the edge of the porch for a moment after washing, drinking in the air that came
to him from the plains--a breeze laden with the clear aroma of the sage-brush moist with the
dew of the night. When he entered the house Mrs. Norton was nowhere to be seen and he drew
up a chair and breakfasted alone.

A little later he embarked upon a tour of inspection. All of the buildings, with the exception
of the ranchhouse, which was constructed of logs, with a gable roof and plastered interstices--were
built of adobe, low, squat structures with flat roofs. There were six of them--the bunkhouse,
mess house, blacksmith shop, the range boss's private shack (from which Norton and his wife
had removed after the death of the elder Hollis), the stable, and one other building for the
storing of miscellaneous articles. Hollis inspected them all and was not quite convinced that
they had reached the stage of dilapidation suggested by Judge Graney.

During his inspection Hollis had seen a patch of garden, some chickens, and down in a small
pasture some cows that he supposed were kept for milking. He was leaning on the top rail of
the corral fence after he had concluded his trip of inspection when he heard a clatter of hoofs
behind him and turned to observe Norton, just riding up to the corral gate. The range boss
wore a grin of pleasure.

"How you findin' things?" he questioned.

"In better shape than I expected--after listening to Judge Graney," smiled Hollis.

Norton looked critically at him. "Then you ain't changed your mind about stayin' here?" he
inquired.

"No," returned Hollis; "I believe I shall get used to it in time."

Norton dismounted, his eyes alight with satisfaction. "That's the stuff!" he declared. He threw
the reins over his pony's head and seized Hollis by an arm. "Come along with me--down to my
shack," he said; "I've got somethin' to show you."

Without further words he led Hollis toward a building--the one he had occupied previous to
the death of the elder Hollis. There were three rooms in the building and in the front one
were several articles of furniture and some boxes. One of these boxes Norton opened, taking
therefrom several articles of wearing apparel, consisting of a pair of corduroy trousers, a
pair of leathern chaps, boots, spurs, two woolen shirts, a blue neckerchief, a broad felt hat,
and last, with a grin of amusement over Hollis's astonished expression, a cartridge belt to
which was attached a holster containing a Colt .45.

"I bought this outfit over at Santa Fé two months ago," he informed Hollis, who was gravely
contemplating the lay-out, "expectin' to wear them myself some day. But when I got home I found
they didn't quite fit." He surveyed Hollis with a critical eye. "I've been thinkin' ever since
you come that you'd fit pretty snug in them." He raised a protesting hand as Hollis was about
to speak. "I ain't givin' them to you," he grinned. "But you can't wear no tenderfoot clothes
out here. Some day when we're together an' we've got time you can blow me to another outfit;
I won't hesitate about takin' it." He leaned over and tapped the butt of the Colt. "You ever
handle one of them?" he questioned.

Hollis nodded. Once during a shooting tournament he had done good work with a pistol. But Norton
laughed at his nod.

"Mebbe we do it a little different out here," he smiled. "You hop into them duds an' we'll
go out into the cottonwood yonder an' try out your gun." He pointed through the door to a small
clump of cottonwoods beyond the bunkhouse.

He went out and fifteen minutes later Hollis joined him, looking thoroughly at home in his
picturesque rigging. An hour later they returned to the corral fence, where Norton caught up
his pony and another, saddling the latter for Hollis. He commented briefly upon the new owner's
ability with the six-shooter.

"You use your fists a little better than you use a gun," he remarked with his peculiar drawl,
"but I reckon that on the whole you'll be able to take care of yourself--after you've had a
little practise gettin' your gun out." He laughed with a grim humor. "More men have been killed
in this country on account of bein' slow on the draw than for any other reason. Don't never
monkey with it unless you intend to use it, an' then see that you get it out middlin' rapid.
That's the recipe," he advised.

The pony that he had selected for Hollis was a slant-eyed beast, larger than the average, with
rangy limbs, black in color with a white muzzle and fetlocks. Hollis voted him a "beaut" after
he had ridden him a mile or two and found that he had an easy, steady stride.

Together they made a round of the basin, returning to the ranchhouse for dinner. Hollis was
saddle weary and when Norton proposed another trip during the afternoon he was met with the
response that the new owner purposed enjoying the cool of the ranchhouse porch for the remainder
of the day.

The next morning Hollis was up with the dawn and out on the porch splashing water over his
face from the wash basin that stood outside the door. For a long time after washing he stood
on the porch, looking out over the big basin at this new and strange world. Endless it seemed,
lying before him in its solemn silence; a world of peace, of eternal sunlight, smiling skies,
and infinite distance. It seemed unreal to him. Did this same planet hold the busy cities to
which he had been accustomed? The stuffy room, with its smell of damp ink, its litter of papers--his
room in the newspaper offices, filled with desks and the clatter of typewriters? Through whose
windows came the incessant clamor that welled up from the streets below? He laughed at the
thought and turned to see Norton standing in the doorway looking at him with a smile.

"Comparin' her with your little old East?" inquired the latter.

Hollis confessed that he had been doing something of that sort.

"Well," returned Norton, "there ain't any way to compare this country with anything else. Seems
as though when the world was made the Lord had a few million miles left which he didn't know
what to do with an' so he just dumped it down out here. An' then, havin' business somewhere
else about that time he forgot about it an' left it to get along as best it could--which wasn't
none too rapid."

