Prof. CHRISTEN. Yes: but it does not begin to compare with Esperanto. Now, we have had these
four words, and I want to proceed a little further, and I will take up something that will
help me to answer your questions. If I had to teach you gentlemen French I would have to make
you commit to memory 2,667 endings and contractions for the verb alone; it would take you months
and months to learn that alone. The same absurdities and even worse occur in Italian, in Spanish,
in German, in English, and in all so-called natural languages.

Mr. TOWNER. And we never could learn these irregularities and exceptions.

Prof. CHRISTEN. Well, if you did learn them you would never remember them at the right time
because the whole scheme is so complicated. This is only one of the many reasons which make
us so shy at speaking foreign languages. Now, the same thing is true of German, and of all
other languages, but it is not true of Esperanto. I will teach you the whole Esperanto conjugation
in five minutes and you will never forget it, because there is nothing to remember. You already
know that a noun ends in "o" and that the infinitive ends in "i," and so on: there is absolutely
no difficulty whatever. (9) Now, I am sorry I have to speak so rapidly, because I would like
to give you more information.

The CHAIRMAN. We would be glad to have you add to your remarks.

Mr. TOWNER. You can extend your remarks.

Prof. CHRISTEN. Since my time is up and, indeed, far exceeded, I will be very glad to do so.
But before I leave you, let me read one or two items, which will only take two minutes more.
Here is a quotation from the British Esperantist, of November, 1913, showing the progress Esperanto
is making:

   The central Esperanto bureau, of Paris, gives the following
   statistics: In 1889, there had been published 29 books in
   Esperanto; in 1899, 128; in 1910, 1,554; in 1912 (to August
   30), 1,837. Enough already to keep most readers going for
   full five years of Sundays, and the output, both of bookshop
   and of press, is increasing daily.

Mr. TOWNER. In a general way, what is the character of this literature?

Prof. CHRISTEN. Up to now chiefly textbooks for learning Esperanto, such as this little book
[indicating], which can be purchased for 10 cents. You can learn the whole mechanism of the
language from one of these little books. Then there are a great many other publications, translations,
scientific articles, etc., and we have already several novels originally written in the new
language.

Mrs. CRAFTS. May I say a word right here? I hold in my hand the New Testament, published by
the British and Foreign Bible Society together with the Scotch Bible Society. It is a translation
from Nestle's Greek Testament, and the Old Testament is now being translated by one of the
most eminent Hebrew scholars in the world.

Prof. CHRISTEN. Here is the next item, which I would like to read to you:

   Evening classes for the study of Esperanto under the auspices of
   the L.C.C. (London county council) are being held at the Halstow
   Road Nonvocational Institute, Greenwich, S.E., on Thursday,
   7.30-9.30 p.m., and at Bloomfield Road Commercial Institute,
   Plumstead, S.E., on Fridays, 7.20-10.50 p. m. Instructor Mr.
   William H. Dennis, B.D.E.A., 108, Eglinton Road, Plumstead,
   S.E., from whom any information may be obtained. These classes
   are designed especially to meet the requirements of the serious
   student, beginner or advanced. (10)

That is from London. Then I have another quotation which I want to read from Edinburgh:

   The chief constable of Edinburgh has interested himself in Esperanto,
   especially in view of the 1915 congress. The chief constable has
   ordered a copy of "Esperanto For All," to be sent to the 650 members
   of the Edinburgh police force, with a recommendation that the police
   learn the language. A class for policemen is being arranged, for
   which 14 names have been received.

Esperanto classes for policemen have been conducted for several years in several towns in Germany,
in France, in Spain, etc., and even during their hours of duty classes are going on in Esperanto
so that policemen may learn Esperanto without the loss of their own personal time. I thank
you, gentlemen, for bearing with me so long.

Mr. BARTHOLDT. I should like to have an opportunity, if possible, at some future time to have
you give us about 10 or 15 minutes to hear Mrs. Crafts.

The CHAIRMAN. We shall be very glad indeed to give you that time.

(The additional matter submitted by Prof. Christen follows:)

(1) We are apt to lose sight of the fact that the whole world's business is daily becoming
more and more internationalized and that what in former centuries was done parochially is now
more and more done internationally.

The first public international convention ever held took place less than 75 years ago; it is
a significant fact that this was a peace convention. To-day there are over 300 societies: Commercial,
scientific, religious, sociological, industrial, sporting, etc., organized internationally.
During those seventy-odd years over 2,000 international congresses of one kind or another have
actually taken place, and now a days not one year passes without several scores being added
to the total. An incomplete list for 1914 gives 49 such prospective international gatherings
and over one score of exhibitions, fairs, and festivals of an international character.

What lamentable and foolish and provoking situation at such gatherings is due to the multitude
of tongues only those know who have wasted time and money in attending them. Usually three
or more languages are officially accepted and most of the time is irretrievably lost in misunderstandings
and more or less inadequate translations.

Compare with this the nine yearly international Esperanto congresses held at Boulogne, Geneva,
Cambridge, Dresden, Barcelona, Washington, Cracow, Antwerp, and Berne, at which from 800 to
1,500 delegates from 20 to 30 different countries spent a week in complete communion through
this wonderful language. Orations, discussions, sermons, concerts, theatrical performances,
and general fellowship among the members being freely enjoyed by all, and often by individuals
who had only had a few weeks of acquaintance with the language.

An international language of some sort has become an absolute necessity of our new era of universal
solidarity.

A hopeful sign of progress is that many international organizations have already declared in
favor of Esperanto for their future meetings.

(2) The impossibility of ever making any national language international will at once become
clear if we imagine the whole youth of the United States condemned to become proficient in
French or Spanish or German. Say we take the easiest of them, Spanish: does anyone dream the
thing possible? Only an infinitesimal fraction of our young people could attain even a smattering,
and that at the cost of from two to three years' study; and even then it is quite unlikely
that other nations would adopt the same language. But if they all did this impossible thing
the Spanish speaking peoples would still have the pull on them all because they grow up with
the language and have not to acquire it artificially.

What holds good for Spanish holds good for even other so called natural language, including
English, and more with English than any other on account of its barbarous spelling and pronunciation.

None of these objections, neither structural nor national, apply to Esperanto, which is entirely
neutral and ideally simple.

(3) The U.E.A. (Universala Esperanto Asocio) has its central office at 10 Rue de la Bourse,
Geneva, Switzerland. Yearly dues 50 cents for private members, $2.50 for business firms. These
contributions entitle the members to use the machinery of the association for the acquisition
of information--free of cost, except postage--on any subject whatever (except confidential
matters), the only condition being that the request be written in Esperanto. A sufficient amount
of Esperanto for this purpose can be acquired by anyone in a few days, or even in a few hours.
It is not even necessary to have a teacher, the textbooks being very easy to master. In America,
if local booksellers do not yet stock Esperanto literature, the would-be student may apply
to Peter Reilly, Esperanto bookseller, 133 North Thirteenth Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

A growing number of Esperantists all over the world are using the services of the U.E.A., not
only in correspondence, but actually traveling through many countries for pleasure or profit
by means of Esperanto alone, and finding everywhere helpful hints and congenial surroundings
in the local Esperanto groups.

In addition to the U.E.A. there is an international Esperanto society for the propaganda of
the language; this has its world center at 51 Rue de Clichy, Paris, France, and powerful national
societies in France (240 branches), in England (118 branches), in Germany (over 250 branches), etc.

(4) I should, however, add, in justice to the American people, that wherever Esperanto has
been brought to their notice by press or platform it has been well received. I have myself
lectured to large and sympathetic audiences in Chautauqua, Buffalo, New York, Philadelphia,
Pittsburgh, and Washington. Public schools, high schools, and universities have frequently
opened their doors to Esperanto, and in my own case the University of Pennsylvania and the
University of Columbia have shown their open-mindedness to the extent of engaging a paid lecturer
for a prolonged course.

So has the Department of Education of the city of New York.

In the Bureau of Standards, Washington, D.C., a considerable number of scientists have declared
in favor of Esperanto, and are adepts of the language.

My experience is that in this country the informed public warmly approves of Esperanto and
the ideals it stands for, but expects the spread of the language to come through the schools.
There is consequently in this country a special inertia in this matter, in spite of approval;
this makes organised propaganda extremely difficult in such a vast territory.

Accordingly the national organization, the E.A.N.A. (Esperanto Association of North America),
central offices, Newton Center, Mass., has so far had but a checkered and precarious existence.

A rival society, the U.S.E.A. (United States Esperanto Association) has its headquarters at
Shaller, Iowa.

(5) If I were asked how Esperanto could best be introduced into the schools, I should suggest
that a limited course of lecture lessons, say, from 6 to 12, to the teachers would suffice
to give them all that is necessary to enable them to practice the language until complete proficiency
is attained. In many places there is even now a supply of local Esperantists ready to cooperate
with the schools.

After a month's study any teacher should be able to teach others and perfect himself in the
process. At that I would teach the language only to the pupils in their last year of school;
many of them could make immediate use of Esperanto on entering business; most of them would
probably get enough of the language during the last session at school to engage them to keep
up the practice afterwards according to local opportunities.

Please do not judge of this probability by your experience with other languages, which most
students drop as soon as possible. Their endless complications make the study and practice
irksome and futile, while Esperanto is positively fascinating.

In my opinion two lessons of 45 minutes a week would amply suffice to secure practical results
never dreamed of in the French, German, or Spanish classes. After a very short course of study,
the boys and girls would get an opportunity to correspond with scholars of their own age and
station in many lands. There are even now hundreds of school boys and girls in France, Germany,
Austria, Spain, and even in China and Japan eager for such interchange of thoughts by means
of Esperanto.

The hour or hour and a half spent weekly on this subject would be amply repaid by the increased
intelligence and linguistic feeling of the pupils, and ultimately the subject could be taught
with great benefit to the whole school, doing away with the necessity of ineffectual attempts
at teaching foreign languages to all and sundry, regardless of taste and capacity.

(6) Perhaps a few remarks may be in place here to substantiate still more clearly the postulate
that Esperanto fulfills absolutely the ideal requirement of a language that means to be introduced
throughout the world as a secondary or auxiliary language: Facility of acquirement to all nations.

(a) There is not one difficult sound, such as our th, our obscure vowels, the French nasals,
the German ä, ö, ü, etc. The vowels are a, e, i, o, and u. Each has but one sound value, and
that long and full, approximately as in the phrase: "Pa may we go, too?"

(b) The tonic accent, an insuperable difficulty in English, on account of its irregularity
and elusiveness, is in Esperanto invariably on the last vowel but one.

(c) The grammar is reduced to a minimum, the whole mechanism of Esperanto being compassed within
16 rules which any one can grasp and assimilate inside one hour.

(d) The vocabulary is extremely small, less than 1,000 roots, mostly common to every Aryan
tongue, being sufficient for all ordinary purposes of language.

This is due to the marvelously ingenious system of word building, which enables anyone to derive
from a dozen to one hundred and more words from every root, there being to this derivation
no limit but that of common sense.

Of course, the vocabulary for science and technology is considerably larger, but equally flexible.

(e) There are no troublesome genders; sex is expressed by the insertion of "in" before the
"o" ending of nouns, and of course only in the case of animate creation. For instance, "viro"
is man, "virino" woman, "frato" brother, "fratino" sister, "kuzo" male cousin, "kuzino" female
cousin, etc. And here Esperanto has over all other languages not only the signal advantage
that there are no irregularities, but the far more important advantage that the scheme is applicable
to all cases. For instance, although we have in English from 30 to 40 different ways of forming
the feminine such as father, mother; brother, sister; uncle, aunt; bull, cow; stallion, mare;
fox, vixen; etc., yet in most cases we possess no decent or sensible way to indicate the sex
of the individuals; as, for instance, in the cases of teacher, doctor, friend, cousin, neighbor,
witness, elephant, camel, goat, typist, stenographer, companion, president, chairman, etc.

Last, but not least, every word parses itself by its distinctive ending.

(7) The stupendous flexibility of Esperanto will be still better understood if I state here
that it possesses some 30 particles (prefixes and suffixes), each with a definite meaning and
each available whenever you want to attach that particular meaning to any word.

