Christianity is a fact. We sometimes hear of men who are said to 'deny' 'Christianity.' The
expression is nonsense. Men cannot deny the sun. Christianity has been a visible thing, on
this planet, for eighteen hundred years. It has done a heavy amount of work, which is very
visible too. It is altogether too late in the day to 'deny Christianity.'

That is the first thing to be understood. There is no arguing against the fact. You must take
the fact and make the best of it. If your theory requires the annihilation of the fact, it's
a bad thing for your theory, for the fact insists on staying. What an amount of fearfully laborious
stupidity we would have been saved, if only that plain principle had been remembered!

Christianity has stood face to face with the world, for ages, a hard, stern, uncompromising
reality. With a pair of tremendous arms it has worked, fought, endured, conquered, destroyed,
builded, all over the earth. It has burned its brand into time. It has stamped its footprints
in fire and brightness on earth and sea. It so stands, a great, wonderful, triumphant, flaming
fact, blazing through the ages, flaming to the stars, melting, moulding, enlightening humanity.

The first thing to be remembered, then, by Christian and unbeliever alike, when they come to
speak of Christianity, is that these things are not the matters in debate. They are the facts
to be explained, to be accounted for. In all argument they themselves must first be taken for
granted.

That is to say, here is this religion, certainly to any thoughtful man the most wonderful thing,
take it all in all, that history has to tell about. It starts in an obscure corner of an obscure
province. Its founder dies as a felon among felons. Its teachers are stupid peasants, fettered
by a narrow dialect of an almost unknown tongue. Its whole origin is barbarous, ignorant, disgraceful
by any worldly judgment. So it begins. As it spreads, imperial Rome takes alarm, and turns
to crush the barbarous fanaticism, in the pride of her learning, civilization, and power. She
plants her iron heel on the neck of the creeping sect. She presses it down with her gigantic
weight. Time passes. The little sect that began in an obscure city of an obscure province,
'the number of the names together being an hundred and twenty,' in less than three centuries
masters the world's crowned mistress, and plants its standard in triumph, to remain forever,
on the Seven Eternal Hills. Resistless Rome is beaten to her knees, every national reverence,
every national divinity trampled on, and spit upon, and the barbarous and disgraceful sect
sets its ignominious mark, the cross of the condemned slave, on every monument of Roman reverence,
on every trophy of Roman greatness.

There never was such an utter conquest. A pure idea, without a material hand or weapon, domineers
over the greatest empire under the sun, in spite of the whole power of that empire armed to
crush it.

And, after Rome fell, the huge carcase beaten to the dust, and torn to fragments by the wild
creatures that hung upon her borders, this wondrous mystery, this barbarous, obscure faith
alone remained, invincible among the powers of Rome. Roman civilization was crushed to the
earth, as the Roman legions were. Roman law was trampled out of sight, as Roman art and literature
were; but Christianity stood up and faced the Vandal and the Goth, the Frank and Saxon, as
it had faced the Cæsars before, and dragged the conquerors of the empire suppliants at the
feet of the church. It built a Christian Europe out of the savage hordes of Asia, and made
an England, and a Germany, and at last an America out of wild Goth and Ungar, out of bloody
Frank and savage Dane.

Now all this is simply matter of fact. My belief in Christianity does not add one jot to these
facts. My disbelief does not take one tittle from them. So far as they are concerned, every
man is a believer in Christianity. He believes it exists. He believes it has existed, has had
such and such a history, has produced such and such results. 'Christian' and 'infidel' alike,
to be reasonable, to have any ground for reasonable discussion, go thus far together.

They may differ in their explanations of the facts. That is the only ground of difference.
There is the point of separation. It is perfectly logical too. Prima facie, we have no complaint
to make that they do differ. And here lies the improvement in the modern type of 'unbeliever.'
He does not take the line of his older brethren, and rudely assail Christianity as a mere imposture
with Voltaire and Paine. That sort of work has had its day. He, on the other hand, freely admits
its beneficent achievements. He has grown reasonable. He accepts Christianity, as the believer
does, as a fruitful, beneficent, and conquering fact. He only holds that its existence and
its achievements may be accounted for in a far more satisfactory way than we 'believers' have
discovered.

Now all this is comprehensible, and it is really, now, the ground of difference between those
who believe in Christianity as divine, and those who hold it to be merely human. It is a clear
and simple issue. Christianity accounts for itself and its work on a certain plain, straightforward,
and consistent theory. It holds that theory to be reasonable, complete, ample, for all the
facts. A number of people join issue just here with Christianity. They admit its facts, but
they deny its manner of explaining them. They claim to put forward other methods of explanation,
which shall be more reasonable, more natural, and, at the same time, just as ample for the
facts. We have had a number of these philosophers, with their theories, and they have had various
fortunes. On the whole, the Christian world has gone on about as usual, accepting the old explanation,
adopting the old theory, a hundred to one, and has dropped the new theories one after another,
after more or less investigation, into profound oblivion.

Now we are free to admit the old theory has its difficulties. There are 'things in it hard
to be understood.' There are mysteries and wonders which it does not attempt to explain. There
are 'hard sayings' which it leaves hard. And the new theories always claim to have no difficulties.
They blame the old one bitterly because it tolerates them. They themselves claim to be 'reasonable,'
they 'explain' everything.

They therefore challenge the trial. If they fail to be 'reasonable,' or if they can only be
reasonable at the expense of some of the facts--that is to say, if they find no place for some
of the authentic facts, and so have to explain them away; or if, on the whole, they make too
large drafts on our credulity, and demand too great a power of faith--we have the logical right
to dismiss them out of our presence with scant courtesy, and are bound to hold by the old explanation
still.

The last man who has come forward with his theory of Christanity is Monsieur Ernest Renan,
a Frenchman, a member of the Institute, and a Semitic scholar of some considerable pretensions.
He broaches his theory in a book, which he calls 'The Life of Jesus.' He offers it to the world,
through that book, as an improvement on the accepted one. We propose here to look at M. Renan's
theory, and see whether it has any advantages to offer over that usually taught in churches
in America, and which the present writer learned, some lustra ago, while catechized at the
chancel veil, and which his children are learning now.

It makes the examination easier that M. Renan freely and fully admits the achievements of Christianity.
Indeed he glories over them. The beneficence of Christianity, its hallowing and elevating power
in the history of the world, its wondrous blessedness among men, the glory it has cast over
human life and human aims, the nobleness it has conferred on human character, all these he
takes a pride in confessing and appreciating. He will not be a whit behind the stanchest believer
in acknowledging the power of these, or in the capacity of prizing these.

But he cannot accept the explanation Christianity gives of itself. He proposes another of his
own. We may take his theory as the fruit and flower of all 'liberal' thought. Here, at last,
is what unbelieving learning and philosophy have to offer in lieu of the divine origin of Christianity.
After a good deal of loud boasting, after a large amount of supercilious sneering, we have
here the result of that 'profound criticism' and that 'careful scholarship' which have been
laboring for years, in Europe, to destroy the supernatural bases of faith. We are justified,
from M. Renan's position and character, in taking it for granted, that his book is the best
that modern unbelief has to offer, his theory the most satisfactory that the deniers of the
divine origin of Christianity can frame.

In examining that theory, at the first, a suspicious thing strikes a calm observer. It is the
reckless way in which M. Renan deals with his authorities. For, be it remarked that, with only
one or two outside hints in Josephus and Tacitus, the Four Gospels contain all that we know
of the 'Life of Jesus.' They are formally and professedly His biographies. They were expressly
written to present the outlines of His life and teaching in connected form. All that we know
of Him, His birth, life, and death, is contained in these four narrations. The utmost learning
and the utmost simplicity here stand side by side. The most unlearned reader of THE CONTINENTAL
is just as well informed, with the Four Gospels in his hand, as any 'member' of any 'Academy'
under the sun. Out of these Four Gospels, M. Renan has to construct his 'Life of Jesus.' But
he has a theory, and that theory does not seem to be the one set forth in the Four Gospels;
so he just rejects whatever goes against his theory, garbles, clips, denies, assents, and colors,
with an assurance, amusing for its impudence, if it were not so criminal for its recklessness.

On the very threshold he asserts, in the teeth of his sole authorities, that Jesus was born
in Nazareth! He refers his startled reader to a footnote. That footnote informs him that the
'assessment under Quirinus, by which He is sought to be connected with Bethlehem,' took place
ten years after. We are to take this on M. Renan's sole authority. We are to fling the Gospels
over on the strength of a footnote! Now it is simply impossible that M. Renan can be ignorant
that there are very satisfactory ways of explaining this difficulty, otherwise than by charging
a forgery. Josephus, whom he cites to prove the assessment to be ten years after, would have
informed him that the preliminary enrolment took place at the time mentioned, and that it did
extend over Herod's dominions. Moreover, the authorities for this last fact are not Christian
only, as he says. They are Josephus, a Jew, and Suetonius, a pagan.

This is only an instance, on the threshold, of what occurs, a hundred times, in the book. Any
statement which stands in the way of the writer's hypothesis, is swept out of existence at
one pen-stroke. Calm historical relations, evidently most essential portions of the writings,
are treated as forgeries, or deceptions, without a condescending why or wherefore, if they
embarrass the writer.

That large portion of the Gospels, the miracles, is scarcely worth a thought from M. Renan.
He dismisses the whole question of miracles with a bon mot. 'Many people followed Jesus into
the desert. Thanks to their extreme frugality, they lived there. They naturally believed they
saw in that a miracle.' Now is not that wonderful! The circumstantial relation of the miraculous
feeding is supposed to be satisfactorily explained by people 'naturally believing' that frugality
was 'a miracle'! But the great miracle of all, the miracle which seals the story, which gives
ground of hope and faith to all Christian men, that miracle, without which they have always
felt the Gospel would be preached in vain, that grand consummating and awful miracle, which
flashed brightness into the sepulchre, which shot the light of immortality athwart the darkness
of Death, and gave mortal man a sure grasp on immortality, that great crowning miracle, the
resurrection of our Lord, on which so much depended, which so many jealous eyes were watching,
which was so early asserted on the very spot where it claims to have occurred--this M. Renan
treats as unworthy serious refutation. It is not even necessary to try to disprove it. It is
simply sufficient for him to mention 'the strong imagination of Mary Magdalene,' and to exclaim
so beautifully!--'Divine power of love, sacred moments in which the passion of a hallucinated
woman gives to the world a resurrected God!'

There it is! The doctrine of the resurrection, and all that clings around it for humanity,
the doctrine preached always as one of the foundations of the faith ('because he preached unto
them Jesus and the resurrection'), and the fact of the resurrection, the fact always put forth
as the clinching argument, the justification of the whole story, thrown into the face of Jew
and Greek as a perpetual challenge--this doctrine and this fact are disposed of by a bit of
sickly sentiment!

Now, this sort of thing may be very rhetorical, and very beautiful, when done up in approved,
sentimental French, but it is certainly neither logical nor philosophical. We have a right
to insist that M. Renan shall come with no theory which compels him to reject half the facts
unexamined, and to garble and misuse half the rest. Those facts stand on the same ground as
all the others. The same authority which tells us that Christ lived at Nazareth, tells us also
that He fed five thousand with five loaves and two small fishes. M. Renan accepts the first
statement, without examination, and denies the second, without examination. He does this because
he has made up his mind beforehand that prima facie a miracle is impossible. But that carries
us out of the line of historical investigation altogether. That is a question of metaphysics.
M. Renan's decision of the question is not admitted by an means universally, not even frequently.
The truer decision as well as the more philosophical is that, prima facie, all things are possible,
except contradictions.

At all events, we hold that the Four Evangelists stand on their own merits. They are not to
be declared impostors, either in whole or in part, beforehand, in order to save a metaphysical
theory.

The same logical viciousness shows itself in M. Renan's treatment of the Prophets. Daniel never
could have written the book attributed to him, he says, because that book contains statements
of fact which occurred long after Daniel! That is to say, M. Renan does not believe in such
a thing as prophecy, and, by consequence, Daniel never wrote the book of Daniel! This is taking
things for granted with a witness.

