3. In other cases precautions are taken to prevent cross-fertilisation, as in the numerous
cleistogamous or closed flowers. These occur in no less than fifty-five different genera, belonging
to twenty-four natural orders, and in thirty-two of these genera the normal flowers are irregular,
and have therefore been specially modified for insect fertilisation.[152] These flowers appear
to be degradations of the normal flowers, and are closed up by various modifications of the
petals or other parts, so that it is impossible for insects to reach the interior, yet they
produce seed in abundance, and are often the chief means by which the species is continued.
Thus, in our common dog-violet the perfect flowers rarely produce seed, while the rudimentary
cleistogamic flowers do so in abundance. The sweet violet also produces abundance of seed from
its cleistogamic flowers, and few from its perfect flowers; but in Liguria it produces only
perfect flowers which seed abundantly. No case appears to be known of a plant which has cleistogamic
flowers only, but a small rush (Juncus bufonius) is in this condition in some parts of Russia,
while in other parts perfect flowers are also produced.[153] Our common henbit dead-nettle
(Lamium amplexicaule) produces cleistogamic flowers, as do also some orchids. The advantage
gained by the plant is great economy of specialised material, since with very small flowers
and very little expenditure of pollen an abundance of seed is produced.

4. A considerable number of plants which have evidently been specially modified for insect
fertilisation have, by further modification, become quite self-fertile. This is the case with
the garden-pea, and also with our beautiful bee-orchis, in which the pollen-masses constantly
fall on to the stigmas, and the flower, being thus self-fertilised, produces abundance of capsules
and of seed. Yet in many of its close allies insect agency is absolutely required; but in one
of these, the fly-orchis, comparatively very little seed is produced, and self-fertilisation
would therefore be advantageous to it. When garden-peas were artificially cross-fertilised
by Mr. Darwin, it seemed to do them no good, as the seeds from these crosses produced less
vigorous plants than seed from those which were self-fertilised; a fact directly opposed to
what usually occurs in cross-fertilised plants.

5. As opposed to the theory that there is any absolute need for cross-fertilisation, it has
been urged by Mr. Henslow and others that many self-fertilised plants are exceptionally vigorous,
such as groundsel, chickweed, sow-thistle, buttercups, and other common weeds; while most plants
of world-wide distribution are self-fertilised, and these have proved themselves to be best
fitted to survive in the battle of life. More than fifty species of common British plants are
very widely distributed, and all are habitually self-fertilised.[154] That self-fertilisation
has some great advantage is shown by the fact that it is usually the species which have the
smallest and least conspicuous flowers which have spread widely, while the large and showy
flowered species of the same genera or families, which require insects to cross-fertilise them,
have a much more limited distribution.

