    "Eyn wolgeordent und nützlich buchlin, wie man Bergwerck suchen
    un finden sol, von allerley Metall, mit seinen figuren, nach
    gelegenheyt dess gebirgs artlich angezeygt mit enhangendon
    Berchnamen den anfahanden" and the colophon describes it as
    "Getruckt zu Wormbs bei Peter Schörfern un volendet am funfften
    tag Aprill, M.D.XVIII."

The Term "Organ-blower."--In an old document preserved among the archives of the Dean and Chapter
of Westminster, is an entry relative to the celebrated composer and organist HENRY PURCELL,
in which he is styled "our organ-blower." What is the meaning of this term? It certainly does
not, in the present case, apply to the person whose office it was to fill the organ with wind.
Purcell, at the time the entry was made, was in the zenith of his fame, and "organist to the
king." Possibly it may be the old term for an organist, as it will be remembered that in the
fifteenth century the organ was performed upon by blows from the fist.

At the coronation of James II., and also at that of George I., two of the king's musicians
walked in the procession, clad in scarlet mantles, playing each on a sackbut, and another,
drest in a similar manner, playing on a double curtal, or bassoon. The "organ-blower" had also
a place in these two processions, having on him a short red coat, with a badge on his left
breast, viz. a nightingale of silver, gilt, sitting on a sprig.

In a weekly paper, entitled the Westminster Journal, Dec. 4. 1742, is a letter subscribed "Ralph
Courtevil, Organ-blower, Essayist, and Historiographer." This person was the organist of St.
James's Church, Piccadilly, and the author of the Gazetteer, a paper written in defence of
Sir Robert Walpole's administration. By the writers on the opposite side he was stigmatized
with the name of "Court-evil."

At the present time, as I am given to understand, the organist of St. Andrew's Church, Holborn,
is styled in the vestry-books, the "organ-blower."

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

"Singular" and "Unique."--The word singular, originally applied to that of which there is no
other, gradually came to mean extraordinary only, and "rather singular," "very singular indeed,"
and such like phrases, ceased to shock the ear. To supply the vacancy occasioned by this corruption,
the word unique was introduced; which, I am horror-struck to see, is beginning to follow its
predecessor. The Vauxhall bills lately declared Vauxhall to be the "most unique place of amusement
in the world." Can anything be done to check this ill-fated word in its career? and, if not,
what must we look to for a successor?

M.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES.

EARLY POETRY, ETC., FIVE BIBLIOGRAPHICAL QUERIES RESPECTING.

1. Who was the author of--

    "A Poeme on the King's most excellent maiesties happy progress
    into Scotland and much desired returne. May, 1685. Imprinted at
    London, MDCXXXIII." {375}

It consists of ten leaves, exclusive of title-page, and is signed with the initials J.R. No
copy has been traced in any public or private library.

2. How many leaves does Nich. Breton's Fantastiques contain? I have a copy, apparently of a
more recent date than the one alluded to in "NOTES AND QUERIES" (Vol. i., p. 410.), wanting
the title, and probably introductory leaf; the text, however, is quite complete. Where can
a perfect copy be found?

3. There is in my possession a poetical collection, of which I can find no trace in any library
public or private. It is dedicated to "Edmond Lord Sheffield, Lord President of his Maiesties
Council established in the north parts," and the following is a copy of the title-page:--

    "Northerne Poems congratulating the King's Maiesties most happy
    and peaceable entrance to the crowne of England.

               'Sorrowe was ouer night
                But joy came in the morning.'

                   'Serò, quamvis seriò,
                    Sat cito, si sat benè.'

      'These come too late, though they import they love,
       Nay, soone enough, if good enough they prove.'

    Printed at London by John Windet for Edmund Weaver, and are to
    be solde at the Great North doore of Paules, 1604. Small 4to."

Four leaves not numbered, and twenty-two pages numbered.

4. Can any account be given of a sort of autobiography by an individual whom Lord Orford sneers
at in his Anecdotes of Painting; it is entitled:

    "A Manifestation by Sir Balthazar Gerbier, K't. Job. xiii., ver.
    18.; 'Behold now, I have ordered my cause, I know that I shall
    bee justified.' London, Printed for the author, 1651." 12mo. 36
    leaves and title.

This very singular production does not appear to have been published, and I cannot trace it
in any catalogue. It gives the author's descent, which is noble, and contains many interesting
personal details of Sir Balthazar, which cannot be found elsewhere.

5. In the Bibliographer's Manual, by Lowndes, there occurs this entry: "Life and death of Major
Clancie, the grandest cheat in this age," 1680, and the full catalogue of the Hon. Mr. Nassau
is referred to. Can any of your readers state where a copy of this production may be found?
A brief account of Clancie is contained in the Memoirs of Gamesters and Sharpers, by Theophilus
Lucas. He wrote, or there was written, under this name, various other works not noticed by
Lowndes. Can any information be given as to the assumed or real author of these works?

Lowndes also mentions Clancie's Cheats, or the Life and Death of Major Clancie, 1687. Where
can access to this work be obtained?

J. MT.

Edinburgh.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

History of Newspapers.--

    "The materials for a satisfactory history of newspapers, lie
    scattered in facts known one to this person, and one to that. If
    each London or provincial journalist, each reader, and each
    critic, who has an anecdote and a date, would give it publicity,
    some future volume might be prepared from the combined supply,
    much more complete than any to be fairly expected from a
    comparatively unaided writer who ventures upon an almost
    untrodden ground."

The foregoing extract from the interesting volumes recently published by Mr. Knight Hunt, under
the unpretending title of The Fourth Estate: Contributions towards a History of Newspapers,
and of the Liberty of the Press, has been very kindly recommended to our attention by The Examiner.
We gladly avail ourselves of the suggestion, and shall be pleased to record in our columns
any facts of the nature referred to by Mr. Hunt.

Steele's Burial-place.--Sir Richard Steele died in the house now the "Ivy Bush" Inn, at Carmarthen,
on the 1st of September, 1729.

Where was he buried?

Is there a monument or inscription to his memory in any church in or near Carmarthen?

LLEWELLYN.

Socinian Boast.--In an allocution recently held by Dr. Pusey, to the London Church Union, in
St. Martin's Hall, reported in The Times of Oct. 17, the following passage occurs:

    "The Socinian boast might be a warning to us against such
    declarations. The Socinian pictured Calvin as carrying on the
    protest against Rome more vigorously than Luther, himself than
    Calvin:

      "Tota jacet Babylon; destruxit tecta Lutherus,
       Calvinus muros, sed fundamenta Socinus."

Query, By what Socinian writer are these two hexameter verses used?

L.

Descent of Edward IV.--Professor Millar, in his Historical View of the English Government (ii.
174.), in discussing the claim of Edward IV. to the English throne, speaks of "a popular though
probably a groundless tradition, that by his mother he was descended from Henry III. by an
elder brother of Edward I., who, on account of his personal deformity, had been excluded from
the succession to the crown." Where may I find this tradition? or where meet with any information
on the subject?

S.A.Y. {376}

Viscount Castlecomer.--Sir Christopher Wanderforde, who succeeded poor Strafford as Lord Deputy
of Ireland, in April, 1640, was created, between that date and his death, which occurred in
December of the same year, Baron Mowbray and Musters, and Viscount Castlecomer. I should be
glad to know the date of the patent of his creation, whether Sir Christopher himself ever took
up the title, and what became of the title afterwards?

S.A.Y.

Judge Cradock, afterwards Newton.--MR ELLACOMBE (Vol. ii., p. 249.), in his notice of a monument
in Yatton Church to "Judge Newton, alias Cradock," says, "the arms of Cradock are Arg. on chevron
az. three garbs or." Richard Cradock, he adds, "was the first of his family who took the name
of Newton." Does MR. ELLACOMBE mean that the above arms were those of the Cradock family, or
that this Richard Cradock assumed the coat as well as the name of Newton? The above was the
bearing of the family of Newton, of East Newton, in the North Riding of York. The eldest daughter
and coheir of John Newton of East Newton was married to William Thornton, which family thus
became possessed of the estate of East Newton, and quartered the coat assigned by MR. ELLACOMBE
to Cradock. I should be glad to know the occasion on which Richard Cradock assumed the name
and arms of Newton, as well as the connexion between these Newtons and those settled at East
Newton.

S.A.Y.

Totness Church.--In Totness Church, the N. angle of the chancel is cut off in the lower part
of the building, in order to allow an arched passage from one side of the church to the other
outside.

The upper part of the building is supported by a very strong buttress or pier, leaving the
diagonal passage between it and the internal wall. Can any one tell whether this was done merely
to afford a gangway for want of room outside?

The graveyard has been recently enlarged in that direction, for all the tombstones beyond the
line of the chancel appear to be of late date. An old woman informed me, with an air of solemn
authenticity, that this arched passage was reserved as a place of deposit for the bodies of
persons seized for debt, which lay there till they were redeemed.

H.G.T.

Meaning of "Harissers."--It is customary in the county of Dorset, after carrying a field of
corn, to leave behind a sheaf, to intimate to the rest of the parish that the families of those
who reaped the field are to have the first lease. After these gleaners have finished, the sheaf
is removed, and other parties are admitted, called "barissers." I have been told that the real
title is "arishers," from "arista." I should feel obliged if any of your correspondents could
inform me whether this name is known in any other county, and what is the derivation of the word.

CLERICUS RUSTICUS.

Ringelbergius--Drinking to Excess.--Ringelbergius, in the notes to his treatise De Ratione
Studii, speaking of great drinkers, has this passage:

    "Eos qui magnos crateras haustu uno siccare possunt, qui sic
    crassum illud et porosum corpus vino implent, ut per cutem humor
    erumpat (nam tum se satis inquiunt potasse, cùm, positis quinque
    super mensam digitis, quod ipse aliquando vidi, totidem guttæ
    excidunt) laudant; hos viros esse et homines dicunt."

He says that he himself has seen this. Does any reader of the "NOTES AND QUERIES" know of any
other author who says that he has seen such an exhibition? Or can Ringelbergius's assertion
be confirmed from any source?

J.S.W.

Stockwell, Oct. 15.

May I ask, further, whether any particulars are known of this contemporary and admirer of Chaucer?

I hope I shall not be deemed presumptuous if I add that I should have doubted of the genuineness
of the poem quoted from, if Sir Harris Nicolas had not stated that it had been communicated
to him by "Thomas Wright, Esq., who received it from M. Paulin Paris," gentlemen in every way
qualified to decide on this point, and being sanctioned by them, I have no wish to appeal from
their judgment.

Do you think it worth while to try if some Coptic scholar among your learned correspondents
can give us some clearer account of the real position of that tongue, historically so interesting?
{377} The point is this, Is it inflected, or, does it employ affixes, or is it absolutely without
inflections and affixes?

If the first, it cannot be "totally opposite" to the Sanscrit: if the second, it cannot be
"totally different" from Syriac and Arabic: if the third, it cannot have "rude inflections."

J.E.

Oxford, October 23. 1850.

Cheshire Cat.--Will some of your correspondents explain the origin of the phrase, "grinning
like a Cheshire cat?" The ingenious theory of somebody, I forget who, that Cheshire is a county
palatine, and that the cats, when they think of it, are so tickled that they can't help grinning,
is not quite satisfactory to

K.I.P.B.T.

Mrs. Partington.--Where may I find the original Mrs. Partington, whose maltreatment of the
Queen's English maketh the newspapers so witty and merry in these dull days?

IGNORANS.

Cognation of the Jews and Lacedemonians.--In the 12th chapter of the 1st Book of Maccabees
the letter of Jonathan, the High Priest, to the Lacedemonians is given, in which he claims
their amity. This is followed by a letter of Arcus, the Spartan king, in answer, and which
contains this assertion:

    "It is found in writing that the Lacedemonians and Jews are
    brethren, and that they are of the stock of Abraham."

Have critics or ethnographers commented on this passage, which, to say the least, is remarkable?

As I am quoting from the Apocrypha, I may point out the anomaly of these books being omitted
in the great majority of our Bibles, whilst their instructive lessons are appointed to be read
by the Church. Hundreds of persons who maintain the good custom of reading the proper lessons
for the day, are by this omission deprived, during the present season, of two chapters out
of the four appointed.

MANLEIUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES.

FAIRFAX'S TRANSLATION OF TASSO.

On referring to my memoranda, I find that the copy of Fairfax's translation of the Gerusalemme
Liberata of Tasso, containing the third variation of the first stanza, noticed in my last,
has the two earliest pages reprinted, in order that the alteration might be more complete,
and that the substitution, by pasting one stanza over another (as the book is usually met with)
might not be detected. A copy with the reprinted leaf is, I apprehend, still in the library
of the late William Wordsworth; and during the last twenty years I have never been able to
procure, or even to see, another with the same peculiarity.

The course with the translator was, no doubt, this: he first printed his book as the stanza
appears under the pasted slip; this version he saw reason to dislike, and then he had the slip
printed with the variation, and pasted over some copies not yet issued. Again he was dissatisfied,
and thinking he could improve, not only upon the first stanza, but upon "The Argument" by which
it was preceded, he procured the two pages to be reprinted. It is, however, by no means clear
to me that, after all, Fairfax liked his third experiment better than his two others: had he
liked it better, we should, most probably, have found it in more copies than the single one
I have pointed out.

As your readers and contributors may wish to see "The Argument" and first stanza as they are
given in Mr. Wordsworth's exemplar, I transcribe them from my note-book, because, before I
gave the book away, I took care to copy them exactly:--

  THE ARGUMENT.

  "God sends his angell to Tortosa downe:
  Godfrey to counsell cals the Christian Peeres,
  Where all the Lords and Princes of renowne
  Chuse him their general: he straight appeeres
  Mustring his royall hoast, and in that stowne
  Sends them to Sion, and their hearts upcheeres.
    The aged tyrant, Judaies land that guides,
    In feare and trouble to resist provides.

  "I sing the sacred armies and the knight
  That Christ's great tombe enfranchis'd and set free.
  Much wrought he by his witte, much by his might,
  Much in that glorious conquest suffred hee:
  Hell hindered him in vaine: in vaine to fight
  Asia's and Affrick's people armed bee;
    Heav'n favour'd him: his lords and knights misgone
    Under his ensigne he reduc'd in one."

I own that, to my ear and judgment, this is no improvement upon what we may consider the author's
second attempt, although I think that the slip pasted over some (if not most) copies is better
than the first experiment.

THE HERMIT OF HOLYPORT.

       *       *       *       *       *

SMALL WORDS.

I stand convicted by the critical acumen of your correspondent [Greek: Ph]. of having misquoted
the line from Pope which heads my "note" at p. 305. I entirely agree with [Greek: Ph]. that
the utmost exactness is desirable in such matters; and as, under such circumstances, I fear
I should be ready enough to accuse others of "just enough of learning to misquote," I have
not a word to say in extenuation of my own carelessness.

But I entirely dispute [Greek: Ph].'s inference, and am unable to see that the difference detracts
in any substantial degree from the applicability of my remarks, such as they were. {378}

What does Pope's epithet "low" mean? Is it used for "vulgar" (as I presume [Greek: ph]. intends
us to infer), or simply for "small, petty, of little size or value"?

To me it appears impossible to read the line without seeing that Pope had in his mind the latter
idea, that of poor, little, shabby, statureless monosyllables, as opposed to big, bouncing,
brave, sonorous polysyllables, such as Aristophanes called [Greek: hræmata hippokræmna]. After
all, however, it would do me very little damage to concede that he intended the meaning which
[Greek: ph]. appears to attribute to the epithet "low", for if he did mean "vulgar" words,
it is evident that he considered vulgarity in such matters inseparable from littleness, as
the "low" words must, if his line is not to lose its point altogether, have been ten in number,
that is, every one a monosyllable, a "small" word.

Take it which way you will, the leading idea is that of "littleness;" moreover, there is no
propriety in the word "creep" as applied to merely vulgar words, while words petty in size
may, with great justice, be said to "creep" in a "petty pace," requiring no less than ten steps
to walk the length of a line.

Pope was criticising compositions intended to pass as poetry of the best kind. Will [Greek:
ph]. point out in any existing poem of such profession and character, a single heroic line,
consisting of ten words, all which ten words shall be "low" in the sense of "vulgar"? Can even
the Muses of burlesque and slang furnish such an instance?

Has not [Greek: ph]. suffered himself to be carried too far by his exultation in being "down"
(the last-named Muse has kindly supplied me with the expression) upon a piece of verbal carelessness
on the part of

K.I.P.B.T.?

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

Concolinel (Vol. ii., pp. 217. 317.).--As Calen O Custore me, after sorely puzzling the critics,
was at length discovered to be an Irish air, or the burthen of an Irish song, is it not possible
that the equally outlandish-looking "Concolinel" may be only a corruption of "Coolin", that
"far-famed melody," as Mr. Bunting terms it in his last collection of The Ancient Music of
Ireland (Dublin, 1840), where it may be found in a style "more Irish than that of the sets
hitherto published?" And truly it is a "sweet air," well fitted to "make passionate the sense
of hearing," and melt the soul of even Don Adriano de Armado. The transmogrification of "Coolin"
into "Concolinel", is hardly more strange than that of "Cailin og astore mo" [chree] (=my dear
young girl, my [heart's] darling) into Callino castore me.

J.M.B.

DR. RIMBAULT'S communication is very interesting, but not quite satisfactory, not affording
me any means of identifying the air. It would under most circumstances, have given me much
pleasure to have lent DR. R. the MS., for I know no one so likely to make good use of it; but
the fact is, that without pretending to compete with DR. RIMBAULT in the knowledge of old music,
I have also meditated a similar work on the ballads and music of Shakspeare, and my chief source
is the volume which is said to contain the air of Concolinel. It will be some time before I
can execute the work alluded to, and I would prefer to see the Doctor's work published first.
Whichever first appears will most likely anticipate much that is in the other, for, although
Dr. R. says he has spent "many years" on the subject, the accidental possession of several
MS. volumes has given me such singular advantages, I am unwilling to surrender my project.
I have the music to nearly twenty jigs, and two have some of the words, which are curious.

R.

Wife of the Poet Bilderdijk--Schweickhardt the Artist (Vol. ii., pp. 309. 349.).--JANUS DOUSA
will find a very sufficient account of Southey's visit to the Dutch poet Bilderdijk, in vol.
v. of the Life and Correspondence of Southey, now publishing by his son. To the special inquiry
of JANUS DOUSA I can say nothing, but I would fain ask who was Katherine Wilhelmina Schweickhardt?
I have in my possession a series of eight etchings of studies of cattle, by H.W. Schweickhardt,
published in 1786, and dedicated to Benjamin West. My father was very intimate with Schweickhardt,
and I think acted in some sort as his executor. I do not know when be died but it must be thirty
years since I heard my father speak of his friend, who was then deceased, but whether recently
or not I cannot say. I am rather disposed to think the event was comparatively a remote one:
he left a widow. Was Mrs. Bilderdijk his daughter? The etchings are exceedingly clever and
artistical; my copy has the artist's name in his own handwriting. If I am not mistaken, Schweickhardt
lived, when my father knew him, at Lambeth, then a picturesque suburb very unlike the "base,
common, and popular" region which it has since become. B.T. Pouncy, another clever artist of
that day, and a friend of my father's, resided there also. Pouncy published some etchings which,
although not professedly views of Lambeth, were in reality studies in that locality. When I
was a boy I remember my father pointing out to me the Windmill, which was the subject of one
of them.

The Mrs. Bilderdijk who translated Roderick, was, according to Southey, the second wife of
her husband. How did JANUS DOUSA learn that her maiden name was Schweickhardt?

G.J. DE WILDE. {379}

Noli me tangere (Vol. ii., p. 153.).--In addition to the list of artists given by J.Z.P. (p.
253.), BR. will find that the subject has also been treated by--

Duccio, in the Duomo at Siena. Taddeo Gaddi, Rinnucini Chapel. Titian, Mr. Roger's Collection.
Rembrandt, Queen's Gallery. Barroccio. An altar piece which came to England with the Duke of
Lucca's paintings, but I cannot say where it is now; it is well known by the engraving from
it of Raphael Morgen.

B.N.C.

Chimney Money (Vol. ii., pp. 120. 174. 269. 344.).--There is a church at Northampton upon which
is an inscription recording that the expense of repairing it was defrayed by a grant of chimney
money for, I believe, seven years, temp. Charles II.

There is also a tombstone in Folkestone churchyard curiously commemorative of this tax. The
inscription runs thus--

  "In memory of
  Rebecca Rogers,
  who died August 29. 1688,
  Aged 44 years.

E.B. PRICE.

Passage from Burke (Vol. ii., p. 359.).--Q.(2) will find the passage he refers to in Prior's
Life of Burke, vol. i. p. 39. It is extracted from a letter addressed by Burke to his old schoolfellow
Matthew Smith, describing his first impressions on viewing Westminster Abbey, and other objects
in the metropolis. Mr. Prior deserves our best thanks for giving us a letter so deeply interesting,
and so characteristic of the gifted writer, then barely of age.

I.H.M. Bath.

Nicholas Assheton's Journal (Vol. ii., pp. 331-2.).--If T.T. WILKINSON will turn to pp. 45,
6, 7, of this very amusing journal, published by the Chetham Society (vol. xiv., 1848), he
will find some account of the Revels introduced before James the First at Hoghton Tower, in
the copious notes of the editor, the Rev. F.R. Raines, M.A., F.S.A., elucidating the origin
and history of these "coarse and indecorous" dances--the Huckler, Tom Bedlo, and the Cowp Justice
of Peace.

J.G. Manchester.

Scotch Prisoners, 1651 (Vol. ii., pp. 297. 350.).--Heath's Chronicle (p. 301. edit. 1676) briefly
notices these unhappy men, "driven like a herd of swine, through Westminster to Tuthill Fields,
and there sold to several merchants, and sent in to the Barbadoes."

The most graphic account, however, is given in Another Victory in Lancashire, &c., 4to. 1651,
from which the parts possessing local interest were extracted by me in the Civil War Tracts
of Lancashire, printed by the Chetham Society, with references to the other matters noticed,
namely, Cromwell's entry into London, and the arrival of the four thousand "Scots, Highlands,
or Redshanks."

These lay on Hampstead Heath, and were thence guarded through Highgate, and behind Islington
to Kingsland and Mile End Green, receiving charity as they went, and having "a cart load or
two of biskett behind them." Thence they proceeded by Aldgate, through Cheapside, Fleetstreet,
and the Strand, and on through Westminster.

    "Many of them brought their wives and berns in with them, yet
    were many of our scotified citizens so pitifull unto them, that
    as they passed through the city, they made them, though
    prisoners at mercy, masters of more money and good white bread
    than some of them ever see in their lives. They marched this
    night [Saturday, Sept. 13.] into Tuttle Fields. Some Irishmen
    are among them, but most of them are habited after that
    fashion."

The contemporary journals in the British Museum would probably state some epidemic which may
have caused the mortality that followed.

GEO. ORMEROD Sedbury Park, Clepstow.

Long Friday (Vol. ii., p. 323.).--T.E.L.L. is not correct in his supposition that "Long Friday"
is the same as "Great Friday". In Danish, Good Friday is Langfredag; in Swedish, Längfredag.
I have always understood the epithet had reference to the length of the services.

COLL. ROYAL SOC.

The Bradshaw Family (Vol. ii., p. 356.).--The president of the pretended high court of justice,
a Cheshire man, had no connexion with Haigh Hall, in Lancashire. E.C.G. may satisfy himself
by referring to Mr. Ormerod's History of Cheshire (vol. iii. p. 408.) for some valuable information
respecting the regicide and his family, and to Wotton's Baronetage (vol. iii. P. 2. p. 655.)
for the descent of the loyal race of Bradshaigh.

J.H.M. Bath.

Julin, the drowned City (Vol. ii., pp. 230. 282.).--I am sorry I did not state more clearly
the inquiry respecting the fate of Julin, which DR. BELL has been so good as to notice. This
is partly the printer's fault. I spoke of the drowned, not the doomed city.

The drowning was what I desired some account of. "A flourishing emporium of commerce", extant
{380} in 1072, and now surviving only in tradition, and in "records" of ships wrecked on its
"submerged ruins," does not sink into the ocean without exciting wonder and pity. I knew of
the tradition, and presumed there was some probability of the existence of a legend (legendum,
something to be read) describing a catastrophe that must have been widely heard of when it
happened.

This I conjectured might be found in Adam of Bremen; to whose mention of Julin DR. BELL referred.
But it seems that in his time the city was still existing, and flourishing ("urbs locuples").

The "excidium civitatis," if the Veneta of Helmold were Julin, must have taken place, therefore,
between 1072 and 1184, when the latter account was written. If Veneta was Julin, and "aquarum
æstu absorpta," there must, I suppose, be some account of this great calamity: and as I have
seen in modern German works allusions to the drowning of the great city, and to the ruins still
visible at times under water, I hoped to find out the where of its site, and the when of its
destruction--as great cities do not often sink into the waves, like exhalations, without some
report of their fate.

V. Belgravia.

Dodsley's Poems (Vol. ii., pp. 264. 343).--THE HERMIT OF HOLYPORT is informed that the first
edition of Dodsley's Collection of Poems, by several Hands, was published in 1748, 3 vols.
12mo. A fourth volume was added in 1749, containing pieces by Collins, Garrick, Lyttelton,
Pope, Tickell, Thomson, &c. Those by Garrick and Lyttelton are anonymous. The four volumes
were reprinted uniformly in 1755. The fifth and sixth were added in 1758.

AMICUS CURIÆ.

Shunamitis Poema (Vol. ii., p. 326.).--The titlepage to the volume of poems inquired after
by E.D. is as follows:

    "Latin and English Poems, by a Gentleman of Trinity College,
    Oxford.

    'Nec lusisse pudet sed non incidere ludum.' HOR.

    London: printed for L. Bathurst over against St. Dunstan's
    Church, in Fleet Street, MDCCXLI."

I know not the author; but I suspect either that the title of an Oxford man was assumed by
a Cantab, who might fairly wish not to be suspected as the author of several of the poems;
or that the author, having been rusticated at Cambridge, vide at p. 84. the ode "Ad Thomam
G." (whom I take to be Thomas Gilbert of Peterhouse), transferred himself and his somewhat
licentious muse to Oxford.

COLL. ROYAL SOC.

Jeremy Taylor's Works (Vol. ii., p. 271.).--It seems desirable that an advance should occasionally
be made in editing, beyond the mere verification of authorities, in seeing, that is, whether
the passages cited are applicable to the point in hand, and properly apprehended. Bp. Taylor,
in his Liberty of Prophecying, sect. vi., for instance, seems incorrect in stating that Leo
I., bishop of Rome, rejected the Council of Chalcedon; whereas his reproofs are directed against
Anatolias, bishop of Constantinople, an unwelcome aspirant to ecclesiastical supremacy. (See
Concilia Studio Labbei, tom. iv., col. 844, &c.)

A passage frown Jerome's Epistle to Evangelus is often quoted in works on church government,
as equalising, or nearly so, the office of bishop and presbyter; but the drift of the argument
seems to be, to show that the site of a bishop's see, be it great or small, important or otherwise,
does not affect the episcopal office. Some readers will perhaps offer an opinion on these two
questions.

NOVUS.

EDWARD FOSS.

Aërostation (Vol. ii., p. 317.).--The account published by Lunardi of his aërial voyage, alluded
to by M., is, in the copy I have seen, entitled

