The specimen presented for his immediate observation was named Pierre Canet. He was brought
up in a rich, middle-class, and conservative family, hermetically sealed against any new idea:
they were magistrates and officials who had distinguished themselves by crabbing authority
or being dismissed: thick-witted citizens of the Marais who flirted with the Church and thought
little, but thought that little well. He had married, for want of anything better to do, a
woman with an aristocratic name, who had no great capacity for thought, but did her thinking
no less well than he. The bigoted, narrow, and retrograde society in which he lived, a society
which was perpetually chewing the cud of its own conceit and bitterness, had finally exasperated
him,--the more so as his wife was ugly and a bore. He was fairly intelligent and open-minded,
and liberal in aspiration, without knowing at all clearly in what liberalism consisted: there
was no likelihood of his discovering the meaning of liberty in his immediate surroundings.
The only thing he knew for certain was that liberty did not exist there: and he fancied that
he had only to leave to find it. On his first move outwards he was lucky enough to fall in
with certain old college friends, some of whom had been smitten with syndicalistic ideas. He
was even more at sea in their company than in the society which he had just quitted: but he
would not admit it: he had to live somewhere: and he was unable to find people of his own cast
of thought (that is to say, people of no cast of thought whatever), though, God knows, the
species is by no means rare in France! But they are ashamed of themselves: they hide themselves,
or they take on the hue of one of the fashionable political colors, if not of several, all
at once. Besides, he was under the influence of his friends.

As always happens, he had particularly attached himself to the very man who was most different
from himself. This Frenchman, French, burgess and provincial to his very soul, had become the
fidus Achates of a young Jewish doctor named Manousse Heimann, a Russian refugee, who, like
so many of his fellow-countrymen, had the twofold gift of settling at once among strangers
and making himself at home, and of being so much at his ease in any sort of revolution as to
rouse wonder as to what it was that most interested him in it: the game or the cause. His experiences
and the experiences of others were a source of entertainment to him. He was a sincere revolutionary,
and his scientific habit of mind made him regard the revolutionaries and himself as a kind
of madmen. His excited dilettantism and his extreme instability of mind made him seek the company
of men the most opposite. He had acquaintances among those in authority and even among the
police: he was perpetually prying and spying with that morbid and dangerous curiosity which
makes so many Russian revolutionaries seem to be playing a double game, and sometimes reduces
the appearance to reality. It is not treachery so much as versatility, and it is thoroughly
disinterested. There are so many men of action to whom action is a theater into which they
bring their talents as comedians, quite honestly prepared at any moment to change their part!
Manousse was as faithful to the revolutionary part as it was possible for him to be: it was
the character which was most in accord with his natural anarchy, and his delight in demolishing
the laws of the countries through which he passed. But yet, in spite of everything, it was
only a part. It was always impossible to know how much was true and how much invented in what
he said, and even he himself was never very sure. He was intelligent and skeptical, endowed
with the psychological subtlety of his twofold nationality, could discern quite marvelously
the weaknesses of others, and his own, and was extremely skilful in playing upon them, so that
he had no difficulty in gaining an ascendancy over Canet. It amused him to drag this Sancho
Panza into Quixotic pranks. He made no scruple about using him, disposing of his will, his
time, his money,--not for his own benefit, (he needed none, though no one knew how or in what
way he lived),--but in the most compromising demonstrations of the cause. Canet submitted to
it all: he tried to persuade himself that he thought like Manousse. He knew perfectly well
that this was not the case: such ideas scared him: they were shocking to his common sense.
And he had no love for the people. And, in addition, he had no courage. This big, bulky, corpulent
young man, with his clean-shaven pinkish face, his short breathing, his pleasant, pompous,
and rather childish way of speaking, with a chest like the Farnese Hercules, (he was a fair
hand at boxing and singlestick), was the most timid of men. If he took a certain pride in being
taken for a man of a subversive temper by his own people, in his heart of hearts he used to
tremble at the boldness of his friends. No doubt the little thrill they gave him was by no
means disagreeable as long as it was only in fun. But their fun was becoming dangerous. His
fervent friends were growing aggressive, their hardy pretensions were increasing: they alarmed
Canet's fundamental egoism, his deeply rooted sense of propriety, his middle-class pusillanimity.
He dared not ask: "Where are you taking me to?" But, under his breath, he fretted and fumed
at the recklessness of these young men who seemed to love nothing so much as breaking their
necks, and never to give a thought as to whether they were not at the same time running a risk
of breaking other people's.--What was it impelled him to follow them? Was he not free to break
with them? He had not the courage. He was afraid of being left alone, like a child who gets
left behind and begins to whimper. He was like so many men: they have no opinions, except in
so far as they disapprove of all enthusiastic opinion: but if a man is to be independent he
must stand alone, and how many men are there who are capable of that? How many men are there,
even amongst the most clear sighted, who will dare to break free of the bondage of certain
prejudices, certain postulates which cramp and fetter all the men of the same generation? That
would mean setting up a wall between themselves and others. On the one hand, freedom in the
wilderness, on the other, mankind. They do not hesitate: they choose mankind, the herd. The
herd is evil smelling, but it gives warmth. Then those who have chosen pretend to think what
they do not in fact think. It is not very difficult for them: they know so little what they
think!... "Know thyself!"... How could they, these men who have hardly a Me to know? In every
collective belief, religious or social, very rare are the men who believe, because very rare
are the men who are men. Faith is an heroic force: its fire has kindled but a very few human
torches, and even these have often flickered. The apostles, the prophets, even Jesus have doubted.
The rest are only reflections,--save at certain hours when their souls are dry and a few sparks
falling from a great torch set light to all the surface of the plain: then the fire dies down,
and nothing gleams but the glowing embers beneath the ashes. Not more than a few hundred Christians
really believe in Christ. The rest believe that they believe, or else they only try to believe.

Many of these revolutionaries were like that. Our friend Canet tried hard to believe that he
was a revolutionary: he did believe it. And he was scared at his own boldness.

All these comfortable people invoked divers principles: some followed the bidding of their
hearts, others that of their reason, others again only their interests: some associated their
way of thinking with the Gospel, others with M. Bergson, others, again, with Karl Marx, with
Proudhon, with Joseph de Maistre. with Nietzsche, or with M. Sorel. There were men who were
revolutionaries to be in the fashion, some who were so out of snobbishness, and some from shyness:
some from hatred, others from love: some from a need of active, hot-headed heroism: and some
in sheer slavishness, from the sheeplike quality of their minds. But all, without knowing it,
were at the mercy of the wind. All were no more than those whirling clouds of dust which are
to be seen like smoke in the far distance on the white roads in the country, clouds of dust
foretelling the coming of the storm.

Olivier and Christophe watched the wind coming. Both of them had strong eyes. But they used
them in different ways. Olivier, whose clear gaze, in spite of himself, pierced to the very
inmost thoughts of men, was saddened by their mediocrity: but he saw the hidden force that
sustained them: he was most struck by the tragic aspect of things. Christophe was more sensible
of their comic aspect. Men interested him, ideas not at all. He affected a contemptuous indifference
towards them. He laughed at Socialistic Utopias. In a spirit of contradiction and out of instinctive
reaction against the morbid humanitarianism which was the order of the day, he appeared to
be more selfish than he was: he was a self-made man, a sturdy upstart, proud of his strength
of body and will, and he was a little too apt to regard all those who had not his force as
shirkers. In poverty and alone he had been able to win through: let others do the same! Why
all this talk of a social question? What question? Poverty?

"I know all about that," he would say. "My father, my mother, I myself, we have been through
it. It's only a matter of getting out of it."

"Not everybody can," Olivier would reply. "What about the sick and the unlucky?"

"One must help them, that's all. But that is a very different thing from setting them on a
pinnacle, as people are doing nowadays. Only a short while ago people were asserting the odious
doctrine of the rights of the strongest man. Upon my word, I'm inclined to think that the rights
of the weakest are even more detestable: they're sapping the thought of to-day, the weakest
man is tyrannizing over the strong, and exploiting them. It really looks as though it has become
a merit to be diseased, poor, unintelligent, broken,--and a vice to be strong, upstanding,
happy in righting, and an aristocrat in brains and blood. And what is most absurd of all is
this, that the strong are the first to believe it.... It's a fine subject for a comedy, my
dear Olivier!"

"I'd rather have people laugh at me than make other people weep."

"Good boy!" said Christophe. "But, good Lord, who ever said anything to the contrary? When
I see a hunchback, my back aches for him.... We're playing the comedy, we won't write it."

He did not suffer himself to be bitten by the prevalent dreams of social justice. His vulgar
common sense told him and he believed that what had been would be.

"But if anybody said that to you about art you'd be up in arms against him."

"May be. Anyhow, I don't know about anything except art. Nor do you. I've no faith in people
who talk about things without knowing anything about them."

Olivier's faith in such people was no greater. Both of them were inclined to push their distrust
a little too far: they had always held aloof from politics. Olivier confessed, not without
shame, that he could not remember ever having used his rights as an elector: for the last ten
years he had not even entered his name at the mairie.

"Why," he asked, "should I take part in a comedy which I know to be futile? Vote? For whom
should I vote? I don't see any reason for choosing between two candidates, both of whom are
unknown to me, while I have only too much reason to expect that, directly the election is over,
they will both be false to all their professions of faith. Keep an eye on them? Remind them
of their duty? It would take up the whole of my life, with no result. I have neither time,
nor strength, nor the rhetorical weapons, nor sufficient lack of scruple, nor is my heart steeled
against all the disgust that action brings. Much better to keep clear of it all. I am quite
ready to submit to the evil. But at least I won't subscribe to it."

But, in spite of his excessive clear-sightedness, Olivier, to whom the ordinary routine of
politics was repulsive, yet preserved a chimerical hope in a revolution. He knew that it was
chimerical: but he did not discard it. It was a sort of racial mysticism in him. Not for nothing
does a man belong to the greatest destructive and constructive people of the Western world,
the people who destroy to construct and construct to destroy,--the people who play with ideas
and life, and are for ever making a clean sweep so as to make a new and better beginning, and
shed their blood in pledge.

Christophe was endowed with no such hereditary Messianism. He was too German to relish much
the idea of a revolution. He thought that there was no changing the world. Why all these theories,
all these words, all this futile uproar?

"I have no need," he would say, "to make a revolution--or long speeches about revolution--in
order to prove to my own satisfaction that I am strong. I have no need, like these young men
of yours, to overthrow the State in order to restore a King or a Committee of Public Safety
to defend me. That's a queer way of proving your strength! I can defend myself. I am not an
anarchist: I love all necessary order and I revere the laws which govern the universe. But
I don't want an intermediary between them and myself. My will knows how to command, and it
knows also how to submit. You've got the classics on the tip of your tongue. Why don't you
remember your Corneille: 'Myself alone, and that is enough.' Your desire for a master is only
a cloak for your weakness. Force is like the light: only the blind can deny it. Be strong,
calmly, without all your theories, without any act of violence, and then, as plants turn to
the sun, so the souls of the weak will turn to you."

But even while he protested that he had no time to waste on political discussions, he was much
less detached from it all than he wished to appear. He was suffering, as an artist, from the
social unrest. In his momentary dearth of strong passion he would sometimes pause to look around
and wonder for what people he was writing. Then he would see the melancholy patrons of contemporary
art, the weary creatures of the upper-classes, the dilettante men and women of the burgess-class,
and he would think:

"What profits it to work for such people as these?" In truth there was no lack of men of refinement
and culture, men sensitive to skill and craft, men even who were not incapable of appreciating
the novelty or--(it is all the same)--the archaism of fine feeling. But they were bored, too
intellectual, not sufficiently alive to believe in the reality of art: they were only interested
in tricks,--tricks of sound, or juggling with ideas; most of them were distraught by other
worldly interests, accustomed to scattering their attention over their multifarious occupations,
none of which was "necessary." It was almost impossible for them to pierce the outer covering
of art, to feel its heart deep down: art was not flesh and blood to them; it was literature.
Their critics built up their impotence to issue from dilettantism into a theory, an intolerant
theory. When it happened that a few here and there were vibrant enough to respond to the voice
of art, they were not strong enough to bear it, and were left disgruntled and nerve-ridden
for life. They were sick men or dead. What could art do in such a hospital?--And yet in modern
society he was unable to do without these cripples: for they had money, and they ruled the
Press: they only could assure an artist the means of living. So then he must submit to such
humiliation: an intimate and sorrowful art, music in which is told the secret of the artist's
inmost life, offered up as an amusement--or rather as a palliative of boredom, or as another
sort of boredom--in the theaters or in fashionable drawing-rooms, to an audience of snobs and
worn-out intellectuals.

Christophe was seeking the real public, the public which believes in the emotions of art as
in those of life, and feels them with a virgin soul. And he was vaguely attracted by the new
promised world--the people. The memories of his childhood, Gottfried and the poor, who had
revealed to him the living depths of art, or had shared with him the sacred bread of music,
made him inclined to believe that his real friends were to be found among such people. Like
many another young man of a generous heart and simple faith, he cherished great plans for a
popular art, concerts, and a theater for the people, which he would have been hard put to it
to define. He thought that a revolution might make it possible to bring about a great artistic
renascence, and he pretended that he had no other interest in the social movement. But he was
hoodwinking himself: he was much too alive not to be attracted and drawn onward by the sight
of the most living activity of the time.

In all that he saw he was least of all interested in the middle-class theorists. The fruit
borne by such trees is too often sapless: all the juices of life are wasted in ideas. Christophe
did not distinguish between one idea and another. He had no preference even for ideas which
were his own when he came upon them congealed in systems. With good-humored contempt he held
aloof from the theorists of force as from the theorists of weakness. In every comedy the one
ungrateful part is that of the raisonneur. The public prefers not only the sympathetic characters
to him, but the unsympathetic characters also. Christophe was like the public in that. The
raisonneurs of the social question seemed tiresome to him. But he amused himself by watching
the rest, the simple, the men of conviction, those who believed and those who wanted to believe,
those who were tricked and those who wanted to be tricked, not to mention the buccaneers who
plied their predatory trade, and the sheep who were made to be fleeced. His sympathy was indulgent
towards the pathetically absurd little people like fat Canet. Their mediocrity was not offensive
to him as it was to Olivier. He watched them all with affectionate and mocking interest: he
believed that he was outside the piece they were playing: and he did not see that little by
little he was being drawn into it. He thought only of being a spectator watching the wind rush
by. But already the wind had caught him, and was dragging him along into its whirling cloud
of dust.

       *       *       *       *       *

The social drama was twofold. The piece played by the intellectuals was a comedy within a comedy;
the people hardly heeded it. The real drama was that of the people. It was not easy to follow
it: the people themselves did not always know where they were in it. It was all unexpected,
unforeseen.

It was not only that there was much more talk in it than action. Every Frenchman, be he burgess
or of the people, is as great an eater of speeches as he is of bread. But all men do not eat
the same sort of bread. There is the speech of luxury for delicate palates, and the more nourishing
sort of speech for hungry gullets. If the words are the same, they are not kneaded into the
same shape: taste, smell, meaning, all are different.

The first time Olivier attended a popular meeting and tasted of the fare he lost his appetite:
his gorge rose at it, and he could not swallow. He was disgusted by the platitudinous quality
of thought, the drab and uncouth clumsiness of expression, the vague generalizations, the childish
logic, the ill-mixed mayonnaise of abstractions and disconnected facts. The impropriety and
looseness of the language were not compensated by the raciness and vigor of the vulgar tongue.
The whole thing was compounded of a newspaper vocabulary, stale tags picked up from the reach-me-downs
of middle-class rhetoric. Olivier was particularly amazed at the lack of simplicity. He forgot
that literary simplicity is not natural, but acquired: it is a thing achieved by the people
of the elect. Dwellers in towns cannot be simple: they are rather always on the lookout for
far-fetched expressions.

Olivier did not understand the effect such turgid phrases might have on their audience. He
had not the key to their meaning. We call foreign the languages of other races, and it never
occurs to us that there are almost as many languages in our nation as there are social grades.
It is only for a limited few that words retain their traditional and age-old meaning: for the
rest they represent nothing more than their own experience and that of the group to which they
belong. Many of such words, which are dead for the select few and despised by them, are like
an empty house, wherein, as soon as the few are gone, new energy and quivering passion take
up their abode. If you wish to know the master of the house, go into it.

That Christophe did.

       *       *       *       *       *

He had been brought into touch with the working-classes by a neighbor of his who was employed
on the State Railways. He was a little man of forty-five, prematurely old, with a pathetically
bald head, deep-sunken eyes, hollow cheeks, a prominent nose, fleshy and aquiline, a clever
mouth, and malformed ears with twisted lobes: the marks of degeneracy. His name was Alcide
Gautier. He was not of the people, but of the lower middle-class.

He came of a good family who had spent all they had on the education of their only son, but,
for want of means, had been unable to let him go through with it. As a very young man he had
obtained one of those Government posts which seem to the lower middle-class a very heaven,
and are in reality death,--living death.--Once he had gone into it, it had been impossible
for him to escape. He had committed the offense--(for it is an offense in modern society)--of
marrying for love a pretty workgirl, whose innate vulgarity had only increased with time. She
gave him three children and he had to earn a living for them. This man, who was intelligent
and longed with all his might to finish his education, was cramped and fettered by poverty.
He was conscious of latent powers in himself which were stifled by the difficulties of his
existence: he could not take any decisive step. He was never alone. He was a bookkeeping clerk
and had to spend his days over purely mechanical work in a room which he had to share with
several of his colleagues who were vulgar chattering creatures: they were for ever talking
of idiotic things and avenged themselves for the absurdity of their existence by slandering
their chiefs and making fun of him and his intellectual point of view which he had not been
prudent enough to conceal from them. When he returned home it was to find an evil-smelling
charmless room, a noisy common wife who did not understand him and regarded him as a humbug
or a fool. His children did not take after him in anything: they took after their mother. Was
it just that it should be so? Was it just? Nothing but disappointment and suffering and perpetual
poverty, and work that took up his whole day from morning to night, and never the possibility
of snatching an hour for recreation, an hour's silence, all this had brought him to a state
of exhaustion and nervous irritability.--Christophe, who had pursued his acquaintance with
him, was struck by the tragedy of his lot: an incomplete nature, lacking sufficient culture
and artistic taste, yet made for great things and crushed by misfortune. Gautier clung to Christophe
as a weak man drowning grasps at the arm of a strong swimmer. He felt a mixture of sympathy
and envy for Christophe. He took him to popular meetings, and showed him some of the leaders
of the syndicalist party to which he belonged for no other reason than his bitterness against
society. For he was an aristocrat gone wrong. It hurt him terribly to mix with the people.

Christophe was much more democratic than he--the more so as nothing forced him to be so--and
enjoyed the meetings. The speeches amused him. He did not share Olivier's feeling of repulsion:
he was hardly at all sensible of the absurdities of the language. In his eyes a windbag was
as good as any other man. He affected a sort of contempt for eloquence in general. But though
he took no particular pains to understand their rhetoric, he did feel the music which came
through the man who was speaking and the men who were listening. The power of the speaker was
raised to the hundredth degree by the echo thrown back from hie hearers. At first Christophe
only took stock of the speakers, and he was interested enough to make the acquaintance of some
of them.

The man who had the most influence on the crowd was Casimir Joussier,--a little, pale, dark
man, between thirty and thirty-five, with a Mongolian cast of countenance, thin, puny, with
cold burning eyes, scant hair, and a pointed beard. His power lay not so much in his gesture,
which was poor, stilted, and rarely in harmony with the, words,--not so much in his speech,
which was raucous and sibilant, with marked pauses for breathing,--as in his personality and
the emphatic assurance and force of will which emanated from it. He never seemed to admit the
possibility of any one thinking differently from himself: and as what he thought was what his
audience wanted to think they had no difficulty in understanding one another. He would go on
saying thrice, four times, ten times, the things they expected him to say: he never stopped
hammering the same nail with a tenacious fury: and his audience, following his example, would
hammer, hammer, hammer, until the nail was buried deep in the flesh.--Added to this personal
ascendancy was the confidence inspired by his past life, the prestige of many terms in prison,
largely deserved by his violent writings. He breathed out an indomitable energy: but for the
seeing eye there was revealed beneath it all an accumulated fund of weariness, disgust with
so much continual effort, anger against fate. He was one of those men who every day spend more
than their income of vitality. From his childhood on he had been ground down by work and poverty.
He had plied all sorts of trades: journeyman glass-blower, plumber, printer: his health was
ruined: he was a prey to consumption, which plunged him into fits of bitter discouragement
and dumb despair of the cause and of himself: at other times it would raise him up to a pitch
of excitement. He was a mixture of calculated and morbid violence, of policy and recklessness.
He was educated up to a certain point: he had a good knowledge of many things, science, sociology,
and his various trades: he had a very poor knowledge of many others: and he was just as cocksure
with both: he had Utopian notions, just ideas, ignorance in many directions, a practical mind,
many prejudices, experience, and suspicion and hatred of burgess society. That did not prevent
his welcoming Christophe. His pride was tickled by being sought out by a well-known artist.
He was of the race of leaders, and, whatever he did, he was brusque with ordinary workmen.
Although in all good faith he desired perfect equality, he found it easier to realize with
those above than with those beneath him.

Christophe came across other leaders of the working-class movement. There was no great sympathy
between them. If the common fight--with difficulty--produced unity of action, it was very far
from creating unity of feeling. It was easy to see the external and purely transitory reality
to which the distinction between the classes corresponded. The old antagonisms were only postponed
and marked: but they continued to exist. In the movement were to be found men of the north
and men of the south with their fundamental scorn of each other. The trades were jealous of
each other's wages, and watched each other with an undisguised feeling of superiority to all
others in each. But the great difference lay--and always will lie--in temperament. Foxes and
wolves and horned beasts, beasts with sharp teeth, and beasts with four stomachs, beasts that
are made to eat, and beasts that are made to be eaten, all sniffed at each other as they passed
in the herd that had been drawn together by the accident of class and common interest: and
they recognized each other: and they bristled.

Christophe sometimes had his meals at a little creamery and restaurant kept by a former colleague
of Gautier's, one Simon, a railway clerk who had been dismissed for taking part in a strike.
The shop was frequented by syndicalists. There were five or six of them who used to sit in
a room at the back, looking on to an inclosed courtyard, narrow and ill-lit, from which there
arose the never-ceasing desperate song of two caged canaries straining after the light. Joussier
used to come with his mistress, the fair Berthe, a large coquettish young woman, with a pale
face, and a purple cap, and merry, wandering eyes. She had under her thumb a good-looking boy,
Leopold Graillot, a journeyman mechanic, who was clever and rather a poseur: he was the esthete
of the company. Although he called himself an anarchist, and was one of the most violent opponents
of the burgess-class, his soul was typical of that class at its very worst. Every morning for
years he had drunk in the erotic and decadent news of the halfpenny literary papers. His reading
had given him a strongly addled brain. His mental subtlety in imagining the pleasures of the
senses was allied in him with an absolute lack of physical delicacy, indifference to cleanliness,
and the comparative coarseness of his life. He had acquired a taste for an occasional glass
of such adulterated wine--the intellectual alcohol of luxury, the unwholesome stimulants of
unhealthy rich men. Being unable to take these pleasures in the flesh, he inoculated his brain
with them. That means a bad tongue in the morning and weakness in the knees. But it puts you
on an equality with the rich. And you hate them.

Christophe could not bear him. He was more in sympathy with Sebastien Coquard, an electrician,
who, with Joussier, was the speaker with the greatest following. He did not overburden himself
with theories. He did not always know where he was going. But he did go straight ahead. He
was very French. He was heavily built, about forty, with a big red face, a round head, red
hair, a flowing beard, a bull neck, and a bellowing voice. Like Joussier, he was an excellent
workman, but he loved drinking and laughter. The sickly Joussier regarded his superabundant
health with the eyes of envy: and, though they were friends, there was always a simmering secret
hostility between them.

Amelie, the manageress of the creamery, a kind creature of forty-five, who must have been pretty
once, and still was, in spite of the wear of time, used to sit with them, with some sewing
in her hands, listening to their talk with a jolly smile, moving her lips in time to their
words: every now and then she would drop a remark into the discussion, and she would emphasize
her words with a nod of her head as she worked. She had a married daughter and two children
of seven and ten--a little girl and a boy--who used to do their home lessons at the corner
of a sticky table, putting out their tongues, and picking up scraps of conversations which
were not meant for their ears.

On more than one occasion Olivier tried to go with Christophe. But he could not feel at ease
with these people. When these working-men were not tied down by strict factory hours or the
insistent scream of a hooter, they seemed to have an incredible amount of time to waste, either
after work, or between jobs, in loafing or idleness. Christophe, being in one of those periods
when the mind has completed one piece of work and is waiting until a new piece of work presents
itself, was in no greater hurry than they were: and he liked sitting there with his elbows
on the table, smoking, drinking, and talking. But Olivier's respectable burgess instincts were
shocked, and so were his traditional habits of mental discipline, and regular work, and scrupulous
economy of time: and he did not relish such a waste of so many precious hours. Besides that,
he was not good at talking or drinking. Above all there was his physical distaste for it all,
the secret antipathy which raises a physical barrier between the different types of men, the
hostility of the senses, which stands in the way of the communion of their souls, the revolt
of the flesh against the heart. When Olivier was alone with Christophe he would talk most feelingly
about the duty of fraternizing with the people: but when he found himself face to face with
the people, he was impotent to do anything, in spite of his good will. Christophe, on the other
hand, who laughed at his ideas, could, without the least effort, meet any workman he chanced
to come across in brotherhood. It really hurt Olivier to find himself so cut off from these
men. He tried to be like them, to think like them, to speak like them. He could not do it.
His voice was dull, husky, had not the ring that was in theirs. When he tried to catch some
of their expressions the words would stick in his throat or sound queer and strange. He watched
himself; he was embarrassed, and embarrassed them. He knew it. He knew that to them he was
a stranger and suspect, that none of them was in sympathy with him, and then, when he was gone,
everybody would sigh with relief: "Ouf!" As he passed among them he would notice hard, icy
glances, such hostile glances as the working-classes, embittered by poverty, cast at any comfortable
burgess. Perhaps Christophe came in for some of it too: but he never noticed it.

Of all the people in that place the only ones who showed any inclination to be friendly with
Olivier were Amelie's children. They were much more attracted by their superior in station
than disposed to hate him. The little boy was fascinated by the burgess mode of thought: he
was clever enough to love it, though not clever enough to understand it: the little girl, who
was very pretty, had once been taken by Olivier to see Madame Arnaud, and she was hypnotized
by the comfort and ease of it all: she was silently delighted to sit in the fine armchairs,
and to feel the beautiful clothes, and to be with lovely ladies: like the little simpleton
she was, she longed to escape from the people and soar upwards to the paradise of riches and
solid comfort. Olivier had no desire or taste for the cultivation of these inclinations in
her: and the simple homage she paid to his class by no means consoled him for the silent antipathy
of her companions. Their ill-disposition towards him pained him. He had such a burning desire
to understand them! And in truth he did understand them, too well, perhaps: he watched them
too closely, and he irritated them. It was not that he was indiscreet in his curiosity, but
that he brought to bear on it his habit of analyzing the souls of men and his need of love.

It was not long before he perceived the secret drama of Joussier's life: the disease which
was undermining his constitution, and the cruelty of his mistress. She loved him, she was proud
of him: but she had too much vitality: he knew that she was slipping away from him, would slip
away from him: and he was aflame with jealousy. She found his jealousy diverting: she was for
ever exciting the men about her, bombarding them with her eyes, flinging around them her sensual
provocative atmosphere: she loved to play with him like a cat. Perhaps she deceived him with
Graillot. Perhaps it pleased her to let him think so. In any case if she were not actually
doing so, she very probably would. Joussier dared not forbid her to love whomsoever she pleased:
did he not profess the woman's right to liberty equally with the man's? She reminded him of
that slyly and insolently one day when he was upbraiding her. He was delivered up to a terrible
struggle within himself between his theories of liberty and his violent instincts. At heart
he was still a man like the men of old, despotic and jealous: by reason he was a man of the
future, a Utopian. She was neither more nor less than the woman of yesterday, to-morrow, and
all time.--And Olivier, looking on at their secret duel, the savagery of which was known to
him by his own experience, was full of pity for Joussier when he realized his weakness. But
Joussier guessed that Olivier was reading him: and he was very far from liking him for it.

There was another interested witness, an indulgent spectator of this game of love and hate.
This was the manageress, Amelie. She saw everything without seeming to do so. She knew life.
She was an honest, healthy, tranquil, easy-going woman, and in her youth had been free enough.
She had been in a florist's shop: she had had a lover of the class above her own: she had had
other lovers. Then she had married a working-man. She had become a good wife and mother. But
she understood everything, all the foolish ways of the heart, Joussier's jealousy, as well
as the young woman's desire for amusement. She tried to help them to understand each other
with a few affectionate words:

"You must make allowances: it is not worth while creating bad blood between you for such a
trifle...."

She was not at all surprised when her words produced no result....

"That's the way of the world. We must always be torturing ourselves...."

She had that splendid carelessness of the people, from which misfortune of every sort seems
harmlessly to glide. She had had her share of unhappiness. Three months ago she had lost a
boy of fifteen whom she dearly loved: it had been a great grief to her: but now she was once
more busy and laughing. She used to say:

"If one were to think of these things one could not live."

So she ceased to think of it. It was not selfishness. She could not do otherwise: her vitality
was too strong: she was absorbed by the present: it was impossible for her to linger over the
past. She adapted herself to things as they were, and would adapt herself to whatever happened.
If the revolution were to come and turn everything topsy-turvy she would soon manage to be
standing firmly on her feet, and do everything that was there to do; she would be in her place
wherever she might be set down. At heart she had only a modified belief in the revolution.
She had hardly any real faith in anything whatever. It is hardly necessary to add that she
used to consult the cards in her moments of perplexity, and that she never failed to make the
sign of the cross when she met a funeral. She was very open-minded and very tolerant, and she
had the skepticism of the people of Paris, that healthy skepticism which doubts, as a man breathes,
joyously. Though she was the wife of a revolutionary, nevertheless she took up a motherly and
ironical attitude towards her husband's ideas and those of his party--and those of the other
parties,--the sort of attitude she had towards the follies of youth--and of maturity. She was
never much moved by anything. But she was interested in everything. And she was equally prepared
for good and bad luck. In fine, she was an optimist.

"It's no good getting angry.... Everything settles itself so long as your health is good...."

That was clearly to Christophe's way of thinking. They did not need much conversation to discover
that they belonged to the same family. Every now and then they would exchange a good-humored
smile, while the others were haranguing and shouting. But, more often, she would laugh to herself
as she looked at Christophe, and saw him being caught up by the argument to which he would
at once bring more passion than all the rest put together.

       *       *       *       *       *

Christophe did not observe Olivier's isolation and embarrassment. He made no attempt to probe
down to the inner workings of his companions. But he used to eat and drink with them, and laugh
and lose his temper. They were never distrustful of him, although they used to argue heatedly
enough. He did not mince his words with them. At bottom he would have found it very hard to
say whether he was with or against them. He never stopped to think about it. No doubt if the
choice had been forced upon him he would have been a syndicalist as against Socialism and all
the doctrines of the State--that monstrous entity, that factory of officials, human machines.
His reason approved of the mighty effort of the cooperative groups, the two-edged ax of which
strikes at the same time at the dead abstractions of the socialistic State, and at the sterility
of individualism, that corrosion of energy, that dispersion of collective force in individual
frailties,--the great source of modern wretchedness for which the French Revolution is in part
responsible.

But Nature is stronger than reason. When Christophe came in touch with the syndicates--those
formidable coalitions of the weak--his vigorous individuality drew back. He could not help
despising those men who needed to be linked together before they could march on--to the fight;
and if he admitted that it was right for them to submit to such a law, he declared that such
a law was not for him. Besides, if the weak and the oppressed are sympathetic, they cease altogether
to be so when they in their turn become oppressors. Christophe, who had only recently been
shouting out to the honest men living in isolation: "Unite! Unite!" had a most unpleasant sensation
when for the first time he found himself in the midst of such unions of honest men, all mixed
up with other men who were less honest, and yet were endowed with their force, their rights,
and only too ready to abuse them. The best people, those whom Christophe loved, the friends
whom he had met in The House, on every floor, drew no sort of profit from these fighting combinations.
They were too sensitive at heart and too timid not to be scared: they were fated to be the
first to be crushed out of existence by them. Face to face with the working-class movement
they were in the same position as Olivier and the most warmly generous of the young men of
the middle-class. Their sympathies were with the workers organizing themselves. But they had
been brought up in the cult of liberty: now liberty was exactly what the revolutionaries cared
for least of all. Besides, who is there nowadays that cares for liberty? A select few who have
no sort of influence over the world. Liberty is passing through dark days. The Popes of Rome
proscribe the light of reason. The Popes of Paris put out the light of the heavens. And M.
Pataud puts out the lights of the streets. Everywhere imperialism is triumphant: the theocratic
imperialism of the Church of Rome: the military imperialism of the mercantile and mystic monarchies:
the bureaucratic imperialism of the republics of Freemasonry and covetousness: the dictatorial
imperialism of the revolutionary committees. Poor liberty, thou art not in this world!... The
abuse of power preached and practised by the revolutionaries revolted Christophe and Olivier.
They had little regard for the blacklegs who refuse to suffer for the common cause. But it
seemed abominable to them that the others should claim the right to use force against them.--And
yet it is necessary to take sides. Nowadays the choice in fact lies not between imperialism
and liberty, but between one imperialism and another. Olivier said:

"Neither. I am for the oppressed."

Christophe hated the tyranny of the oppressors no less. But he was dragged into the wake of
force in the track of the army of the working-classes in revolt.

He was hardly aware that it was so. He would tell his companions in the restaurant that he
was not with them.

"As long as you are only out for material interests," he would say, "you don't interest me.
The day when you march out for a belief then I shall be with you. Otherwise, what have I to
do with the conflict between one man's belly and another's? I am an artist; it is my duty to
defend art; I have no right to enroll myself in the service of a party. I am perfectly aware
that recently certain ambitious writers, impelled by a desire for an unwholesome popularity,
have set a bad example. It seems to me that they have not rendered any great service to the
cause which they defended in that way: but they have certainly betrayed art. It is our, the
artists', business to save the light of the intellect. We have no right to obscure it with
your blind struggles. Who shall hold the light aloft if we let it fall? You will be glad enough
to find it still intact after the battle. There must always be workers busy keeping up the
fire in the engine, while there is fighting on the deck of the ship. To understand everything
is to hate nothing. The artist is the compass which, through the raging of the storm, points
steadily to the north."

They regarded him as a maker of phrases, and said that, if he were talking of compasses, it
was very clear that he had lost his: and they gave themselves the pleasure of indulging in
a little friendly contempt at his expense. In their eyes an artist was a shirker who contrived
to work as little and as agreeably as possible.

He replied that he worked as hard as they did, harder even, and that he was not nearly so afraid
of work. Nothing disgusted him so much as sabotage, the deliberate bungling of work, and skulking
raised to the level of a principle.

"All these wretched people," he would say, "afraid for their own skins!... Good Lord! I've
never stopped working since I was eight. You people don't love your work; at heart you're just
common men.... If only you were capable of destroying the Old World! But you can't do it. You
don't even want to. No, you don't even want to. It is all very well for you to go about shrieking
menace and pretending you're going to exterminate the human race. You have only one thought:
to get the upper hand and lie snugly in the warm beds of the middle-classes. Except for a few
hundred poor devils, navvies, who are always ready to break their bones or other people's bones
for no particular reason,--just for fun--or for the pain, the age-old pain with which they
are simply bursting, the whole lot of you think of nothing but deserting the camp and going
over to the ranks of the middle-classes on the first opportunity. You become Socialists, journalists,
lecturers, men of letters, deputies, Ministers.... Bah! Bah! Don't you go howling about so-and-so!
You're no better. You say he is a traitor?... Good. Whose turn next? You'll all come to it.
There is not one of you who can resist the bait. How could you? There is not one of you who
believes in the immortality of the soul. You are just so many bellies, I tell you. Empty bellies
thinking of nothing but being filled."

Thereupon they would all lose their tempers and all talk at once. And in the heat of the argument
it would often happen that Christophe, whirled away by his passion, would become more revolutionary
than the others. In vain did he fight against it: his intellectual pride, his complacent conception
of a purely esthetic world, made for the joy of the spirit, would sink deep into the ground
at the sight of injustice. Esthetic, a world in which eight men out of ten live in nakedness
and want, in physical and moral wretchedness? Oh! come! A man must be an impudent creature
of privilege who would dare to claim as much. An artist like Christophe, in his inmost conscience,
could not but be on the side of the working-classes. What man more than the spiritual worker
has to suffer from the immorality of social conditions, from the scandalously unequal partition
of wealth among men? The artist dies of hunger or becomes a millionaire for no other reason
than the caprice of fashion and of those who speculate on fashion. A society which suffers
its best men to die or gives them extravagant rewards is a monstrous society: it must be swept
and put in order. Every man, whether he works or no, has a right to a living minimum.

Every kind of work, good or mediocre, should be rewarded, not according to its real value--(who
can be the infallible judge of that?)--but according to the normal legitimate needs of the
worker. Society can and should assure the artist, the scientist, and the inventor an income
sufficient to guarantee that they have the means and the time yet further to grace and honor
it. Nothing more. The Gioconda is not worth a million. There is no relation between a sum of
money and a work of art: a work of art is neither above nor below money: it is outside it.
It is not a question of payment: it is a question of allowing the artist to live. Give him
enough to feed him, and allow him to work in peace. It is absurd and horrible to try to make
him a robber of another's property. This thing must be put bluntly: every man who has more
than is necessary for his livelihood and that of his family, and for the normal development
of his intelligence, is a thief and a robber. If he has too much, it means that others have
too little. How often have we smiled sadly to hear tell of the inexhaustible wealth of France,
and the number of great fortunes, we workers, and toilers, and intellectuals, and men and women
who from our very birth have been given up to the wearying task of keeping ourselves from dying
of hunger, often struggling in vain, often seeing the very best of us succumbing to the pain
of it all,--we who are the moral and intellectual treasure of the nation! You who have more
than your share of the wealth of the world are rich at the cost of our suffering and our poverty.
That troubles you not at all: you have sophistries and to spare to reassure you: the sacred
rights of property, the fair struggle for life, the supreme interests of that Moloch, the State
and Progress, that fabulous monster, that problematical Better to which men sacrifice the Good,--the
Good of other men.--But for all that, the fact remains, and all your sophistries will never
manage to deny it: "You have too much to live on. We have not enough. And we are as good as
you. And some of us are better than the whole lot of you put together."

       *       *       *       *       *

So Christophe was affected by the intoxication of the passions with which he was surrounded.
Then he was astonished at his own bursts of eloquence. But he did not attach any importance
to them. He was amused by such easily roused excitement, which he attributed to the bottle.
His only regret was that the wine was not better, and he would belaud the wines of the Rhine.
He still thought that he was detached from revolutionary ideas. But there arose the singular
phenomenon that Christophe brought into the discussion, if not the upholding of them, a steadily
increasing passion, while that of his companions seemed in comparison to diminish.

As a matter of fact, they had fewer illusions than he. Even the most violent leaders, the men
who were most feared by the middle-classes, were at heart uncertain and horribly middle-class.
Coquard, with his laugh like a stallion's neigh, shouted at the top of his voice and made terrifying
gestures: but he only half believed what he was saying: it was all for the pleasure of talking,
giving orders, being active: he was a braggart of violence. He knew the cowardice of the middle-classes
through and through, and he loved terrorizing them by showing that he was stronger than they:
he was quite ready to admit as much to Christophe, and to laugh over it. Graillot criticized
everything, and everything anybody tried to do: he made every plan come to nothing. Joussier
was for ever affirming, for he was unwilling ever to be in the wrong. He would be perfectly
aware of the inherent weakness of his line of argument, but that would make him only the more
obstinate in sticking to it: he would have sacrificed the victory of his cause to his pride
of principle. But he would rush from extremes of bullet-headed faith to extremes of ironical
pessimism, when he would bitterly condemn the lie of all systems of ideas and the futility
of all efforts.

The majority of the working-classes were just the same. They would suddenly relapse from the
intoxication of words into the depths of discouragement. They had immense illusions: but they
were based upon nothing: they had not won them in pain or forged them for themselves: they
had received them ready-made, by that law of the smallest effort which led them for their amusements
to the slaughter-house and the blatant show. They suffered from an incurable indolence of mind
for which there were only too many excuses: they were like weary beasts asking only to be suffered
to lie down and in peace to ruminate over their end and their dreams. But once they had slept
off their dreams there was nothing left but an even greater weariness and the doleful dumps.
They were for ever flaring up to a new leader: and very soon they became suspicious of him
and spurned him. The sad part of it all was that they were never wrong: one after another their
leaders were dazzled by the bait of wealth, success, or vanity: for one Joussier, who was kept
from temptation by the consumption under which he was wasting away, a brave crumbling to death,
how many leaders were there who betrayed the people or grew weary of the fight! They were victims
of the secret sore which was devouring the politicians of every party in those days: demoralization
through women and money, women and money,--(the two scourges are one and the same).--In the
Government as in the ministry there were men of first-rate talent, men who had in them the
stuff of which great statesmen are made--(they, might have been great statesmen in the days
of Richelieu, perhaps);--but they lacked faith and character: the need, the habit, the weariness
of pleasure, had sapped them: when they were engaged upon vast schemes they fumbled into incoherent
action, or they would suddenly fling up the whole thing, while important business was in progress,
desert their country or their cause for rest and pleasure. They were brave enough to meet death
in battle: but very few of the leaders were capable of dying in harness, at their posts, never
budging, with their hands upon the rudder and their eyes unswervingly fixed upon the invisible
goal.

The revolution was hamstrung by the consciousness of the fundamental weakness. The leaders
of the working-classes spent part of their time in blaming each other. Their strikes always
failed as a result of the perpetual dissensions between the leaders and the trades-unions,
between the reformers and the revolutionaries--and of the profound timidity that underlay their
blustering threats--and of the inherited sheepishness that made the rebels creep once more
beneath the yoke upon the first legal sentence,--and of the cowardly egoism and the baseness
of those who profited by the revolt of others to creep a little nearer the masters, to curry
favor and win a rich reward for their disinterested devotion. Not to speak of the disorder
inherent in all crowds, the anarchy of the people. They tried hard to create corporate strikes
which should assume a revolutionary character: but they were not willing to be treated as revolutionaries.
They had no liking for bayonets. They fancied that it was possible to make an omelette without
eggs. In any case, they preferred the eggs to be broken by other people.

Olivier watched, observed, and was not surprised. From the very outset he had recognized the
great inferiority of these men to the work which they were supposed to be accomplishing: but
he had also recognized the inevitable force that swept them on: and he saw that Christophe,
unknown to himself, was being carried on by the stream. But the current would have nothing
to do with himself, who would have asked nothing better than to let himself be carried away.

It was a strong current: it was sweeping along an enormous mass of passions, interest, and
faith, all jostling, pushing, merging into each other, boiling and frothing and eddying this
way and that. The leaders were in the van; they were the least free of all, for they were pushed
forward, and perhaps they had the least faith of all: there had been a time when they believed:
they were like the priests against whom they had so loudly railed, imprisoned by their vows,
by the faith they once had had, and were forced to profess to the bitter end. Behind them the
common herd was brutal, vacillating, and short-sighted. The great majority had a sort of random
faith, because the current had now set in the direction of Utopia: but a little while, and
they would cease to believe because the current had changed. Many believed from a need of action,
a desire for adventure, from romantic folly. Others believed from a sort of impertinent logic,
which was stripped of all common sense. Some believed from goodness of heart. The self-seeking
only made use of ideas as weapons for the fight: their eye was for the main chance: they were
fighting for a definite sum as wages for a definite number of hours' work. The worst of all
were nursing a secret hope of wreaking a brutal revenge for the wretched lives they had led.

But the current which bore them all along was wiser than they: it knew where it was going.
What did it matter that at any moment it might dash up against the dyke of the Old World! Olivier
foresaw that a social revolution in these days would be squashed. But he knew also that revolution
would achieve its end through defeat as well as through victory: for the oppressors only accede
to the demands of the oppressed when the oppressed inspire them with fear. And so the violence
of the revolutionaries was of no less service to their cause than the justice of that cause.
Both violence and justice were part and parcel of the plan of that blind and certain force
which moves the herd of human kind....

"For consider what you are, you whom the Master has summoned. If the body be considered there
are not many among you who are wise, or strong, or noble.

And yet, whatever may be the Master who orders all things,--(Reason or Unreason),--and although
the social organization prepared by syndicalism might constitute a certain comparative stage
in progress for the future, Olivier did not think it worth while for Christophe and himself
to scatter the whole of their power of illusion and sacrifice in this earthy combat which would
open no new world. His mystic hopes of the revolution were dashed to the ground. The people
seemed to him no better and hardly any more sincere than the other classes: there was not enough
difference between them and others. In the midst of the torrent of interests and muddy passions,
Olivier's gaze and heart were attracted by the little islands of independent spirits, the little
groups of true believers who emerged here and there like flowers on the face of the waters.
In vain do the elect seek to mingle with the mob: the elect always come together,--the elect
of all classes and all parties,--the bearers of the fire of the world. And it is their sacred
duty to see to it that the fire in their hands shall never die down.

Olivier had already made his choice.

A few houses away from that in which he lived was a cobbler's booth, standing a little below
the level of the street,--a few planks nailed together, with dirty windows and panes of paper.
It was entered by three steps down, and you had to stoop to stand up in it. There was just
room for a shelf of old shoes, and two stools. All day long, in accordance with the classic
tradition of cobbling, the master of the place could be heard singing. He used to whistle,
drum on the soles of the boots, and in a husky voice roar out coarse ditties and revolutionary
songs, or chaff the women of the neighborhood as they passed by. A magpie with a broken wing,
which was always hopping about on the pavement, used to come from a porter's lodge and pay
him a visit. It would stand on the first step at the entrance to the booth and look at the
cobbler. He would stop for a moment to crack a dirty joke with the bird in a piping voice,
or he would insist on whistling the Internationale. The bird would stand with its beak in the
air, listening gravely: every now and then it would bob with its beak down by way of salutation,
and it would awkwardly flap its wings in order to regain its balance: then it would suddenly
turn round, leaving the cobbler in the middle of a sentence, and fly away with its wing and
a bit on to the back of a bench, from whence it would hurl defiance at the dogs of the quarter.
Then the cobbler would return to his leather, and the flight of his auditor would by no means
restrain him from going through with his harangue.

He was fifty-six, with a jovial wayward manner, little merry eyes under enormous eyebrows,
with a bald top to his head rising like an egg out of the nest of his hair, hairy ears, a black
gap-toothed mouth that gaped like a well when he roared with laughter, a very thick dirty beard,
at which he used to pluck in handfuls with his long nails that were always filthy with wax.
He was known in the district as Daddy Feuillet, or Feuillette, or Daddy la Feuillette--and
to tease him they used to call him La Fayette: for politically the old fellow was one of the
reds: as a young man he had been mixed up in the Commune, sentenced to death, and finally deported:
he was proud of his memories, and was always rancorously inclined to lump together Badinguet,
Galliffet, and Foutriquet. He was a regular attendant at the revolutionary meetings, and an
ardent admirer of Coquard and the vengeful idea that he was always prophesying with much beard-wagging
and a voice of thunder. He never missed one of his speeches, drank in his words, laughed at
his jokes with head thrown back and gaping mouth, foamed at his invective, and rejoiced in
the fight and the promised paradise. Next day, in his booth, he would read over the newspaper
report of the speeches: he would read them aloud to himself and his apprentice: and to taste
their full sweetness he would have them read aloud to him, and used to box his apprentice's
ears if he skipped a line. As a consequence he was not always very punctual in the delivery
of his work when he had promised it: on the other hand, his work was always sound: it might
wear out the user's feet, but there was no wearing out his leather....

The old fellow had in his shop a grandson of thirteen, a hunchback, a sickly, rickety boy,
who used to run his errands, and was a sort of apprentice. The boy's mother had left her family
when she was seventeen to elope with a worthless fellow who had sunk into hooliganism, and
before very long had been caught, sentenced, and so disappeared from the scene. She was left
alone with the child, deserted by her family, and devoted herself to the upbringing of the
boy Emmanuel. She had transferred to him all the love and hatred she had had for her lover.
She was a woman of a violent and jealous character, morbid to a degree. She loved her child
to distraction, brutally ill-treated him, and, when he was ill, was crazed with despair. When
she was in a bad temper she would send him to bed without any dinner, without so much as a
piece of bread. When she was dragging him along through the streets, if he grew tired and would
not go on and slipped down to the ground, she would kick him on to his feet again. She was
amazingly incoherent in her use of words, and she used to pass swiftly from tears to a hysterical
mood of gaiety. She died. The cobbler took the boy, who was then six years old. He loved him
dearly: but he had his own way of showing it, which consisted in bullying the boy, battering
him with a large assortment of insulting names, pulling his ears, and clouting him over the
head from morning to night by way of teaching him his job: and at the same time he grounded
him thoroughly in his own social and anti-clerical catechism.

Emmanuel knew that his grandfather was not a bad man: but he was always prepared to raise his
arm to ward off his blows: the old fellow used to frighten him, especially on the evenings
when he got drunk. For Daddy la Feuillette had not come by his nickname for nothing: he used
to get tipsy twice or thrice a month: then he used to talk all over the place, and laugh, and
act the swell, and always in the end he used to give the boy a good thrashing. His bark was
worse than his bite. But the boy was terrified: his ill-health made him more sensitive than
other children: he was precociously intelligent, and he had inherited a fierce and unbalanced
capacity for feeling from his mother. He was overwhelmed by his grandfather's brutality, and
also by his revolutionary harangues,--(for the two things went together: it was particularly
when the old man was drunk that he was inclined to hold forth).--His whole being quivered in
response to outside impressions, just as the booth shook with the passing of the heavy omnibuses.
In his crazy imagination there were mingled, like the humming vibrations of a belfry, his day-to-day
sensations, the wretchedness of his childhood, his deplorable memories of premature experience,
stories of the Commune, scraps of evening lectures and newspaper feuilletons, speeches at meetings,
and the vague, uneasy, and violent sexual instincts which his parents had transmitted to him.
All these things together formed a monstrous grim dream-world, from the dense night, the chaos
and miasma of which there darted dazzling rays of hope.

The cobbler used sometimes to drag his apprentice with him to Amelie's restaurant. There it
was that Olivier noticed the little hunchback with the voice of a lark. Sitting and never talking
to the workpeople, he had had plenty of time to study the boy's sickly face, with its jutting
brow and shy, humiliated expression: he had heard the coarse jokes that had been thrown at
the boy, jokes which were met with silence and a faint shuddering tremor. During certain revolutionary
utterances he had seen the boy's soft brown eyes light up with the chimerical ecstasy of the
future happiness,--a happiness which, even if he were ever to realize it, would make but small
difference in his stunted life. At such moments his expression would illuminate his ugly face
in such a way as to make its ugliness forgotten. Even the fair Berthe was struck by it; one
day she told him of it, and, without a word of warning, kissed him on the lips. The boy started
back: he went pale and shuddering, and flung away in disgust. The young woman had no time to
notice him: she was already quarreling with Joussier. Only Olivier observed Emmanuel's uneasiness:
he followed the boy with his eyes, and saw him withdraw into the shadow with his hands trembling,
head down, looking down at the floor, and darting glances of desire and irritation at the girl.
Olivier went up to him, spoke to him gently and politely and soothed him.... Who can tell all
that gentleness can bring to a heart deprived of all consideration? It is like a drop of water
falling upon parched earth, greedily to be sucked up. It needed only a few words, a smile,
for the boy Emmanuel in his heart of hearts to surrender to Olivier, and to determine to have
Olivier for his friend. Thereafter, when he met him in the street and discovered that they
were neighbors, it seemed to him to be a mysterious sign from Fate that he had not been mistaken.
He used to watch for Olivier to pass the booth, and say good-day to him: and if ever Olivier
were thinking of other things and did not glance in his direction, then Emmanuel would be hurt
and sore.

It was a great day for him when Olivier came into Daddy Feuillette's shop to leave an order.
When the work was done Emmanuel took it to Olivier's rooms; he had watched for him to come
home so as to be sure of finding him in. Olivier was lost in thought, hardly noticed him, paid
the bill, and said nothing: the boy seemed to wait, looked from right to left, and began reluctantly
to move away. Olivier, in his kindness, guessed what was happening inside the boy: he smiled
and tried to talk to him in spite of the awkwardness he always felt in talking to any of the
people. But now he was able to find words simple and direct. An intuitive perception of suffering
made him see in the boy--(rather too simply)--a little bird wounded by life, like himself,
seeking consolation with his head under his wing, sadly huddled up on his perch, dreaming of
wild flights into the light. A feeling that was something akin to instinctive confidence brought
the boy closer to him: he felt the attraction of the silent soul, which made no moan and used
no harsh words, a soul wherein he could take shelter from the brutality of the streets; and
the room, thronged with books, filled with bookcases wherein there slumbered the dreams of
the ages, filled him with an almost religious awe. He made no attempt to evade Olivier's questions:
he replied readily, with sudden gasps and starts of shyness and pride: but he had no power
of expression. Carefully, patiently, Olivier unswathed his obscure stammering soul: little
by little he was able to read his hopes and his absurdly touching faith in the new birth of
the world. He had no desire to laugh, though he knew that the dream was impossible, and would
never change human nature. The Christians also have dreamed of impossible things, and they
have not changed human nature. From the time of Pericles to the time of M. Fallieres when has
there been any moral progress?... But all faith is beautiful: and when the light of an old
faith dies down it is meet to salute the kindling of the new: there will never be too many.
With a curious tenderness Olivier saw the uncertain light gleaming in the boy's mind. What
a strange mind it was!... Olivier was not altogether able to follow the movement of his thoughts,
which were incapable of any sustained effort of reason, progressing in hops and jerks, and
lagging behind in conversation, unable to follow, clutching in some strange way at an image
called up by a word spoken some time before, then suddenly catching up, rushing ahead, weaving
a commonplace thought or an ordinary cautious phrase into an enchanted world, a crazy and heroic
creed. The boy's soul, slumbering and waking by fits and starts, had a puerile and mighty need
of optimism: to every idea in art or science thrown out to it, it would add some complacently
melodramatic tag, which would link it up with and satisfy its own chimerical dreams.

As an experiment Olivier tried reading aloud to the boy on Sundays. He thought that he was
most likely to be interested by realistic and familiar stories: he read him Tolstoy's Memories
of Childhood. They made no impression on the boy: he said:

"That's quite all right. Things are like that. One knows that."

And he could not understand why anybody should take so much trouble to write about real things....

"He's just a boy," he would say disdainfully, "just an ordinary little boy."

He was no more responsive to the interest of history: and science bored him: it was to him
no more than a tiresome introduction to a fairy-tale: the invisible forces brought into the
service of man were like terrible genii laid low. What was the use of so much explanation?
When a man finds something it is no good his telling how he found it, he need only tell what
it is that he has found. The analysis of thought is a luxury of the upper-classes. The souls
of the people demand synthesis, ideas ready-made, well or ill, or rather ill-made than well,
but all tending to action, and composed of the gross realities of life, and charged with electricity.
Of all the literature open to Emmanuel that which most nearly touched him was the epic pathos
of certain passages in Hugo and the fuliginous rhetoric of the revolutionary orators, whom
he did not rightly understand, characters who no more understood themselves than Hugo did.
To him as to them the world was not an incoherent collection of reasons or facts, but an infinite
space, steeped in darkness and quivering with light, while through the night there passed the
beating of mighty wings all bathed in the sunlight. Olivier tried in vain to make him grasp
his cultivated logic. The boy's rebellious and weary soul slipped through his fingers: and
it sank back with a sigh of comfort and relief into the indeterminate haze and the chafing
of its own sensation and hallucinations, like a woman in love giving herself with eyes closed
to her lover.

Olivier was at once attracted and disconcerted by the qualities in the child so much akin to
his own:--loneliness, proud weakness, idealistic ardor,--and so very different,--the unbalanced
mind, the blind and unbridled desires, the savage sensuality which had no idea of good and
evil, as they are defined in ordinary morality. He had only a partial glimpse of that sensuality
which would have terrified him had he known its full extent. He never dreamed of the existence
of the world of uneasy passions stirring and seething in the heart and mind of his little friend.
Our bourgeois atavism has given us too much wisdom. We dare not even look within ourselves.
If we were to tell a hundredth part of the dreams that come to an ordinary honest man, or of
the desires which come into being in the body of a chaste woman, there would be a scandal and
an outcry. Silence such monsters! Bolt and bar their cage! But let us admit that they exist,
and that in the souls of the young they are insecurely fettered.--The boy had all the erotic
desires and dreams which we agree among ourselves to regard as perverse: they would suddenly
rise up unawares and take him by the throat: they would come in gusts and squalls: and they
only gained in intensity and heat through the irritation set up by the isolation to which his
ugliness condemned him. Olivier knew nothing of all this. Emmanuel was ashamed in his presence.
He felt the contagion of such peace and purity. The example of such a life was a taming influence
upon him. The boy felt a passionate love for Olivier. And his suppressed passions rushed headlong
into tumultuous dreams of human happiness, social brotherhood, fantastic aviation, wild barbaric
poetry--a whole heroic, erotic, childish, splendid, vulgar world in which his intelligence
and his will were tossed hither and thither in mental loafing and fever.

He did not have much time for indulging himself in this way, especially in his grandfather's
booth, for the old man was never silent for a minute on end, but was always whistling, hammering,
and talking from morning to night; but there is always room for dreams. How many voyages of
the mind one can make standing up with wide-open eyes in the space of a second!--Manual labor
is fairly well suited to intermittent thought. The working-man's mind would be hard put to
it without an effort of the will to follow a closely reasoned chain of argument: if he does
manage to do so he is always certain to miss a link here and there: but in the intervals of
rhythmic movement ideas crop up and mental images come floating to the surface: the regular
movements of the body send them flying upwards like sparks under the smith's bellows. The thought
of the people! It is just smoke and fire, a shower of glittering sparks fading away, glowing,
then fading away once more! But sometimes a spark will be carried away by the wind to set fire
to the dried forests and the fat ricks of the upper-classes....

Olivier procured Emmanuel a place in a printing house. It was the boy's wish, and his grandfather
did not oppose it; he was glad to see his grandson better educated than himself, and he had
a great respect for printer's ink. In his new trade the boy found his work more exhausting
than in the old: but he felt more free to think among the throng of workers than in the little
shop where he used to sit alone with his grandfather.

The best time of day was the dinner hour. He would escape and get right away from the horde
of artisans crowding round the little tables on the pavement and into the wineshops of the
district, and limp along to the square hard by: and there he would sit astride a bench under
a spreading chestnut-tree, near a bronze dancing faun with grapes in his hands, and untie his
brown-paper parcel of bread and meat, and munch it slowly, surrounded by a little crowd of
sparrows. Over the green turf little fountains spread the trickling web of their soft rain.
Round-eyed, slate-blue pigeons cooed in a sunlit tree. And all about him was the perpetual
hum of Paris, the roar of the carriages, the surging sea of footsteps, the familiar street-cries,
the gay distant whistle of a china-mender, a navvy's hammer ringing out on the cobblestones,
the noble music of a fountain--all the fevered golden trappings of the Parisian dream.--And
the little hunchback, sitting astride his bench, with his mouth full, never troubling to swallow,
would drowse off into a delicious torpor, in which he lost all consciousness of his twisted
spine and his craven soul, and was all steeped in an indeterminate intoxicating happiness.

"... Soft warm light, sun of justice that art to shine for us to-morrow, art thou not shining
now? It is all so good, so beautiful! We are rich, we are strong, we are hale, we love ...
I love, I love all men, all men love me.... Ah! How splendid it all is! How splendid it will
be to-morrow!..."

       *       *       *       *       *

The factory hooters would sound: the boy would come to his senses, swallow down his mouthful,
take a long drink at the Wallace fountain near by, slip back into his hunchbacked shell, and
go limping and hobbling back to his place in the printing works in front of the cases of magic
letters which would one day write the Mene, Mene, Tekel, Upharsin, of the Revolution.

Daddy Feuillet had a crony, Trouillot, the stationer on the other side of the street. He kept
a stationery and haberdashery shop, in the windows of which were displayed pink and green bonbons
in green bottles, and pasteboard dolls without arms or legs. Prom either side of the street,
one standing on his doorstep, the other in his shop, the two old men used to exchange winks
and nods and a whole elaborate code of pantomimic gesture. At intervals, when the cobbler was
tired of hammering, and had, as he used to say, the cramp in his buttocks, they would hail
each other, La Feuillette in his shrill treble, Trouillot with a muffled roar, like a husky
calf; and they would go off together and take a nip at a neighboring bar. They were never in
any hurry to return. They were both infernally loquacious. They had known each other for half
a century. The stationer also had played a little walking-on part in the great melodrama of
1871. To see the fat placid creature with his black cap on his head and his white blouse, and
his gray, heavy-dragoon mustache, and his dull light-blue bloodshot eyes with heavy pouches
under the lids, and his flabby shining cheeks, always in a perspiration, slow-footed, gouty,
out of breath, heavy of speech, no one would ever have thought it. But he had lost none of
the illusions of the old days. He had spent some years as a refugee in Switzerland, where he
had met comrades of all nations, notably many Russians, who had initiated him in the beauties
of anarchic brotherhood. On that point he disagreed with La Feuillette, who was a proper Frenchman,
an adherent of the strong line and of absolutism in freedom. For the rest, they were equally
firm in their belief in the social revolution and the working-class salente of the future.
Each was devoted to a leader in whose person he saw incarnate the ideal man that each would
have liked to be. Trouillot was for Joussier, La Feuillette for Coquard. They used to engage
in interminable arguments about the points on which they were divided, being quite confident
that the thoughts upon which they agreed were definitely decided;--(and they were so sure of
their common ground that they were never very far from believing, in their cups, that it was
a matter of hard fact).--The cobbler was the more argumentative of the two. He believed as
a matter of reason: or at least he flattered himself that he did, for, Heaven knows, his reason
was of a very peculiar kind, and could have fitted the foot of no other man. However, though
he was less skilled in argument than in cobbling, he was always insisting that other minds
should be shod to his own measure. The stationer was more indolent and less combative, and
never worried about proving his faith. A man only tries to prove what he doubts himself. He
had no doubt. His unfailing optimism always made him see things as he wanted to see them, and
not see things or forget them immediately when they were otherwise. Whether he did so wilfully
or from apathy he saved himself from trouble of any sort: experience to the contrary slipped
off his hide without leaving a mark.--The two of them were romantic babies with no sense of
reality, and the revolution, the mere sound of the name of which was enough to make them drunk,
was only a jolly story they told themselves, and never knew whether it would ever happen, or
whether it had actually happened. And the two of them firmly believed in the God of Humanity
merely by the transposition of the habits they had inherited from their forbears, who for centuries
had bowed before the Son of Man.--It goes without saying that both men were anti-clerical.

The amusing part of it was that the honest stationer lived with a very pious niece who did
just what she liked with him. She was a very dark little woman, plump, with sharp eyes and
a gift of volubility spiced with a strong Marseilles accent, and she was the widow of a clerk
in the Department of Commerce. When she was left alone with no money, with a little girl, and
received a home with her uncle, the common little creature gave herself airs, and was more
than a little inclined to think that she was doing her shop-keeping relation a great favor
by serving in his shop: she reigned there with the airs of a fallen queen, though, fortunately
for her uncle's business and his customers, her arrogance was tempered by her natural exuberance
and her need of talking. As befitted a person of her distinction, Madame Alexandrine was royalist
and clerical, and she used to parade her feelings with a zeal that was all the more indiscreet
as she took a malicious delight in teasing the old miscreant in whose house she had taken up
her abode. She had set herself up as mistress of the house, and regarded herself as responsible
for the conscience of the whole household: if she was unable to convert her uncle--(she had
vowed to capture him in extremis),--she busied herself to her heart's content with sprinkling
the devil with holy water. She fixed pictures of Our Lady of Lourdes and Saint Anthony of Padua
on the walls: she decorated the mantelpiece with little painted images in glass cases: and
in the proper season she made a little chapel of the months of Mary with little blue candles
in her daughter's bedroom. It was impossible to tell which was the predominant factor in her
aggressive piety, real affection for the uncle she desired to convert or a wicked joy in worrying
the old man.

He put up with it apathetically and sleepily: he preferred not to run the risk of rousing the
tempestuous ire of his terrible niece: it was impossible to fight against such a wagging tongue:
he desired peace above all things. Only once did he lose his temper, and that was when a little
Saint Joseph made a surreptitious attempt to creep into his room and take up his stand above
his bed: on this point he gained the day: for he came very near to having an apoplectic fit,
and his niece was frightened: she did not try the experiment again. For the rest he gave in,
and pretended not to see: the odor of sanctity made him feel very uncomfortable: but he tried
not to think of it. On the other hand they were at one in pampering the girl, little Reine,
or Rainette.

She was twelve or thirteen, and was always ill. For some months past she had been on her back
with hip disease, with the whole of one side of her body done up in plaster of Paris like a
little Daphne in her shell. She had eyes like a hurt dog's, and her skin was pallid and pale
like a plant grown out of the sun: her head was too big for her body, and her fair hair, which
was very soft and very tightly drawn back, made it appear even bigger: but she had an expressive
and sweet face, a sharp little nose, and a childlike expression. The mother's piety had assumed
in the child, in her sickness and lack of interest, a fervid character. She used to spend hours
in telling her beads, a string of corals, blessed by the Pope: and she would break off in her
prayers to kiss it passionately. She did next to nothing all day long: needlework made her
tired: Madame Alexandrine had not given her a taste for it. She did little more than read a
few insipid tracts, or a stupid miraculous story, the pretentious and bald style of which seemed
to her the very flower of poetry,--or the criminal reports illustrated in color in the Sunday
papers which her stupid mother used to give her. She would perhaps do a little crochet-work,
moving her lips, and paying less attention to her needle than to the conversation she would
hold with some favorite saint or even with God Himself. For it is useless to pretend that it
is necessary to be Joan of Are to have such visitations: every one of us has had them. Only,
as a rule, our celestial visitors leave the talking to us as we sit by the fireside: and they
say never a word. Rainette never dreamed of taking exception to it: silence gives consent.
Besides, she had so much to tell them that she hardly gave them time to reply: she used to
answer for them. She was a silent chatterer: she had inherited her mother's volubility: but
her fluency was drawn off in inward speeches like a stream disappearing underground.--Of course
she was a party to the conspiracy against her uncle with the object of procuring his conversion:
she rejoiced over every inch of the house wrested by the spirit of light from the spirit of
darkness: and on more than one occasion she had sewn a holy medallion on to the inside of the
lining of the old man's coat or had slipped into one of his pockets the bead of a rosary, which
her uncle, in order to please her, had pretended not to notice.--This seizure by the two pious
women of the bitter foe of the priests was a source of indignation and joy to the cobbler.
He had an inexhaustible store of coarse pleasantries on the subject of women who wear breeches:
and he used to jeer at his friend for letting himself be under their thumb. As a matter of
fact he had no right to scoff: for he had himself been afflicted for twenty years with a shrewish
cross-grained wife, who had always regarded him as an old scamp and had taken him down a peg
or two. But he was always careful not to mention her. The stationer was a little ashamed, and
used to defend himself feebly, and in a mealy voice profess a Kropotkinesque gospel of tolerance.

Rainette and Emmanuel were friends. They had seen each other every day ever since they were
children. To be quite accurate, Emmanuel only rarely ventured to enter the house. Madame Alexandrine
used to regard him with an unfavorable eye as the grandson of an unbeliever and a horrid little
dwarf. But Rainette used to spend the day on a sofa near the window on the ground floor. Emmanuel
used to tap at the window as he passed, and, flattening his nose against the panes, he would
make a face by way of greeting. In summer, when the window was left open, he would stop and
lean his arms on the windowsill, which was a little high for him;--(he fancied that this attitude
was flattering to himself and that, his shoulders being shrugged up in such a pose of intimacy,
it might serve to disguise his actual deformity);--and they would talk. Rainette did not have
too many visitors, and she never noticed that Emmanuel was hunchbacked. Emmanuel, who was afraid
and mortified in the presence of girls, made an exception in favor of Rainette. The little
invalid, who was half petrified, was to him something intangible and far removed, something
almost outside existence. Only on the evening when the fair Berthe kissed him on the lips,
and the next day too, he avoided Rainette with an instinctive feeling of repulsion: he passed
the house without stopping and hung his head: and he prowled about far away, fearfully and
suspiciously, like a pariah dog. Then he returned. There was so little woman in her! As he
was passing on his way home from the works, trying to make himself as small as possible among
the bookbinders in their long working-blouses like nightgowns--busy merry young women whose
hungry eyes stripped him as he passed,--how eagerly he would scamper away to Rainette's window!
He was grateful for his little friend's infirmity: with her he could give himself airs of superiority
and even be a little patronizing. With a little swagger he would tell her about the things
that happened in the street and always put himself in the foreground. Sometimes in gallant
mood he would bring Rainette a little present, roast chestnuts in winter, a handful of cherries
in summer. And she used to give him some of the multi-colored sweets that filled the two glass
jars in the shop-window: and they would pore over picture postcards together. Those were happy
moments: they could both forget the pitiful bodies in which their childish souls were held captive.

But sometimes they would begin to talk, like their elders, of politics and religion. Then they
would become as stupid as their elders. It put an end to their sympathy and understanding.
She would talk of miracles and the nine days' devotion, or of pious images tricked out with
paper lace, and of days of indulgence. He used to tell her that it was all folly and mummery,
as he had heard his grandfather say. But when he in turn tried to tell her about the public
meetings to which the old man had taken him, and the speeches he had heard, she would stop
him contemptuously and tell him that all such folk were drunken sots. Bitterness would creep
into their talk. They would get talking about their relations: they would recount the insulting
things that her mother and his grandfather had said of each other respectively. Then they would
talk about themselves. They tried to say disagreeable things to each other. They managed that
without much difficulty. They indulged in coarse gibes. But she was always the more malicious
of the two. Then he would go away: and when he returned he would tell her that he had been
with other girls, and how pretty they were, and how they had joked and laughed, and how they
were going to meet again next Sunday. She would say nothing to that: she used to pretend to
despise what he said: and then, suddenly, she would grow angry, and throw her crochet-work
at his head, and shout at him to go, and declare that she loathed him: and she would hide her
face in her hands. He would leave her on that, not at all proud of his victory. He longed to
pull her thin little hands away from her face and to tell her that it was not true. But his
pride would not suffer him to return.

One day Rainette had her revenge.--He was with some of the other boys at the works. They did
not like him because he used to hold as much aloof from them as possible and never spoke, or
talked too well, in a naively pretentious way, like a book, or rather like a newspaper article--(he
was stuffed with newspaper articles).--That day they had begun to talk of the revolution and
the days to come. He waxed enthusiastic and made a fool of himself. One of his comrades brought
him up sharp with these brutal words:

"To begin with, you won't be wanted, you're too ugly. In the society of the future, there won't
be any hunchbacks. They'll be drowned at birth."

That brought him toppling down from his lofty eloquence. He stopped short, dumfounded. The
others roared with laughter. All that afternoon he went about with clenched teeth. In the evening
he was going home, hurrying back to hide away in a corner alone with his suffering. Olivier
met him: he was struck by his downcast expression: he guessed that he was suffering.

"You are hurt. Why?"

Emmanuel refused to answer. Olivier pressed him kindly. The boy persisted in his silence: but
his jaw trembled as though he were on the point of weeping. Olivier took his arm and led him
back to his rooms. Although he too had the cruel and instinctive feeling of repulsion from
ugliness and disease that is in all who are not born with the souls of sisters of charity,
he did not let it appear.

"Some one has hurt you?"

"Yes."

"What did they do?"

The boy laid bare his heart. He said that he was ugly. He said that his comrades had told him
that their revolution was not for him.

"It is not for them, either, my boy, nor for us. It is not a single day's affair. It is all
for those who will come after us."

The boy was taken aback by the thought that it would be so long deferred.

"Don't you like to think that people are working to give happiness to thousands of boys like
yourself, to millions of human beings?"

Emmanuel sighed and said:

"But it would be good to have a little happiness oneself."

"My dear boy, you mustn't be ungrateful. You live in the most beautiful city, in an age that
is most rich in marvels; you are not a fool, and you have eyes to see. Think of all the things
there are to be seen and loved all around you."

He pointed out a few things.

The boy listened, nodded his head, and said:

"Yes, but I've got to face the fact that I shall always have to live in this body of mine!"

"Not at all. You will quit it."

"And that will be the end."

"How do you know that?"

The boy was aghast. Materialism was part and parcel of his grandfather's creed: he thought
that it was only the priest-ridden prigs who believed in an eternal life. He knew that his
friend was not such a one: and he wondered if Olivier could be speaking seriously. But Olivier
held his hand and expounded at length his idealistic faith, and the unity of boundless life,
that has neither beginning nor end, in which all the millions of creatures and all the million
million moments of time are but rays of the sun, the sole source of it all. But he did not
put it to him in such an abstract form. Instinctively, when he talked to the boy, he adapted
himself to his mode of thought;--ancient legends, the material and profound fancies of old
cosmogonies were called to mind: half in fun, half in earnest, he spoke of metempsychosis and
the succession of countless forms through which the soul passes and flows, like a spring passing
from pool to pool. All this was interspersed with reminiscences of Christianity and images
taken from the summer evening, the light of which was cast upon them both. He was sitting by
the open window, and the boy was standing by his side, and their hands were clasped. It was
a Saturday evening. The bells were ringing. The earliest swallows, only just returned, were
skimming the walls of the houses. The dim sky was smiling above the city, which was wrapped
in shadow. The boy held his breath and listened to the fairy-tale his man friend was telling
him. And Olivier, warmed by the eagerness of his young hearer, was caught up by the interest
of his own stories.

There are decisive moments in life when, just as the electric lights suddenly flash out in
the darkness of a great city, so the eternal fires flare up in the darkness of the soul. A
spark darting from another soul is enough to transmit the Promethean fire to the waiting soul.
On that spring evening Olivier's calm words kindled the light that never dies in the mind hidden
in the boy's deformed body, as in a battered lantern. He understood none of Olivier's arguments:
he hardly heard them. But the legends and images which were only beautiful stories and parables
to Olivier, took living shape and form in his mind, and were most real. The fairy-tale lived,
moved, and breathed all around him. And the view framed in the window of the room, the people
passing in the street, rich and poor, the swallows skimming the walls, the jaded horses dragging
their loads along, the stones of the houses drinking in the cool shadow of the twilight, and
the pale heavens where the light was dying--all the outside world was softly imprinted on his
mind, softly as a kiss. It was but the flash of a moment. Then the light died down. He thought
of Rainette, and said;

"But the people who go to Mass, the people who believe in God, are all cracked, aren't they?"

Olivier smiled.

"They believe," he said, "as we do. We all believe the same thing. Only their belief is less
than ours. They are people who have to shut all the shutters and light the lamp before they
can see the light. They see God in the shape of a man. We have keener eyes. But the light that
we love is the same."

The boy went home through the dark streets in which the gas-lamps were not yet lit. Olivier's
words were ringing in his head. He thought that it was as cruel to laugh at people because
they had weak eyes as because they were hunchbacked. And he thought that Rainette had very
pretty eyes: and he thought that he had brought tears into them. He could not bear that. He
turned and went across to the stationer's. The window was still a little open: and he thrust
his head inside and called in a whisper:

"Rainette."

She did not reply.

"Rainette. I beg your pardon."

From the darkness came Rainette's voice, saying:

"Beast! I hate you."

"I'm sorry," he said.

He stopped. Then, on a sudden impulse, he said in an even softer whisper, uneasily, rather
shamefacedly:

"You know, Rainette, I believe in God just as you do."

"Really?"

"Really."

He said it only out of generosity. But, as soon as he had said it, he began to believe it.

They stayed still and did not speak. They could not see each other. Outside the night was so
fair, so sweet!... The little cripple murmured:

"How good it will be when one is dead!"

He could hear Rainette's soft breathing.

He said:

"Good-night, little one."

Tenderly came Rainette's voice:

"Good-night."

He went away comforted. He was glad that Rainette had forgiven him. And, in his inmost soul,
the little sufferer was not sorry to think that he had been the cause of suffering to the girl.

       *       *       *       *       *

Olivier had gone into retirement once more. It was not long before Christophe rejoined him.
It was very certain that their place was not with the syndicalist movement: Olivier could not
throw in his lot with such people. And Christophe would not. Olivier flung away from them in
the name of the weak and the oppressed; Christophe in the name of the strong and the independent.
But though they had withdrawn, one to the bows, the other to the stern, they were still traveling
in the vessel which was carrying the army of the working-classes and the whole of society.
Free and self-confident, Christophe watched with tingling interest the coalition of the proletarians:
he needed every now and then to plunge into the vat of the people: it relaxed him: he always
issued from it fresher and jollier. He kept up his relation with Coquard, and he went on taking
his meals from time to time at Amelie's. When he was there he lost all self-control, and would
whole-heartedly indulge his fantastic humor: he was not afraid of paradox: and he took a malicious
delight in pushing his companions to the extreme consequences of their absurd and wild principles.
They never knew whether he was speaking in jest or in earnest: for he always grew warm as he
talked, and always in the end lost sight of the paradoxical point of view with which he had
begun. The artist in him was carried away by the intoxication of the rest. In one such moment
of esthetic emotion in Amelie's back-shop, he improvised a revolutionary song, which was at
once tried, repeated, and on the very next day spread to every group of the working-classes.
He compromised himself. He was marked by the police. Manousse, who was in touch with the innermost
chambers of authority, was warned by one of his friends, Xavier Bernard, a young official in
the police department, who dabbled in literature and expressed a violent admiration for Christophe's
music:--(for dilettantism and the spirit of anarchy had spread even to the watchdogs of the
Third Republic).

"That Krafft of yours is making himself a nuisance," said Bernard to Manousse. "He's playing
the braggart. We know what it means: but I tell you that those in high places would be not
at all sorry to catch a foreigner--what's more, a German--in a revolutionary plot: it is the
regular method of discrediting the party and casting suspicion upon its doings. If the idiot
doesn't look out we shall be obliged to arrest him. It's a bore. You'd better warn him."

Manousse did warn Christophe: Olivier begged him to be careful. Christophe did not take their
advice seriously.

"Bah!" he said. "Everybody knows there's no harm in me. I've a perfect right to amuse myself.
I like these people. They work as I do, and they have faith, and so have I. As a matter of
fact, it isn't the same faith; we don't belong to the same camp.... Very well! We'll fight.
Not that I don't like fighting. What would you? I can't do as you do, and stay curled up in
my shell. I must breathe. I'm stifled by the comfortable classes."

Olivier, whose lungs were not so exacting, was quite at his ease in his small rooms with the
tranquil society of his two women friends, though one of them, Madame Arnaud, had flung herself
into charitable work, and the other, Cecile, was entirely taken up with looking after the baby,
to such an extent that she could talk of nothing else and to nobody else, in that twittering,
beatific tone which is an attempt to emulate the note of a little bird, and to mold its formless
song into human speech.

His excursion into working-class circles had left him with two acquaintances. Two men of independent
views, like himself. One of them, Guerin, was an upholsterer. He worked when he felt so disposed,
capriciously, though he was very skilful. He loved his trade. He had a natural taste for artistic
things, and had developed it by observation, work, and visits to museums. Olivier had commissioned
him to repair an old piece of furniture: it was a difficult job, and the upholsterer had done
it with great skill: he had taken a lot of time and trouble over it: he sent in a very modest
bill to Olivier because he was so delighted with his success. Olivier became interested in
him, questioned him about his life, and tried to find out what he thought of the working-class
movement. Guerin had no thought about it: he never worried about it. At bottom he did not belong
to the working-class, or to any class. He read very little. All his intellectual development
had come about through his senses, eyes, hands, and the taste innate in the true Parisian.
He was a happy man. The type is by no means rare among the working people of the lower middle-class,
who are one of the most intelligent classes in the nation: for they realize a fine balance
between manual labor and healthy mental activity.

Olivier's other acquaintance was a man of a more original kind. He was a postman, named Hurteloup.
He was a tall, handsome creature, with bright eyes, a little fair beard and mustache, and an
open, merry expression. One day he came with a registered letter, and walked into Olivier's
room. While Olivier was signing the receipt, he wandered round, looking at the books, with
his nose thrust close up to their backs:

"Ha! Ha!" he said. "You have the classics...."

He added:

"I collect books on history. Especially books about Burgundy."

"You are a Burgundian?" asked Olivier.

  "Bourguignon sale,
  L'epee au cote,
  La barbe au menton,
  Sante Bourguignon,"

replied the postman with a laugh. "I come from the Avallon country. I have family papers going
back to 1200 and something...."

Olivier was intrigued, and tried to find out more about him. Hurteloup asked nothing better
than to be allowed to talk. He belonged, in fact, to one of the oldest families in Burgundy.
One of his ancestors had been on crusade with Philippe Auguste: another had been secretary
of State under Henri II. The family had begun to decay in the seventeenth century. At the time
of the Revolution, ruined and despairing, they had taken the plunge into the ocean of the people.
Now they were coming to the surface again as the result of honest work and the physical and
moral vigor of Hurteloup the postman, and his fidelity to his race. His greatest hobby had
been collecting historical and genealogical documents relating to his family and their native
country. In off hours he used to go to the Archives and copy out old papers. Whenever he did
not understand them he would go and ask one of the people on his beat, a Chartist or a student
at the Sorbonne, to explain. His illustrious ancestry did not turn his head: he would speak
of it laughingly, with never a shade of embarrassment or of indignation at the hardness of
fate. His careless sturdy gaiety was a delightful thing to see. And when Olivier looked at
him he thought of the mysterious ebb and flow of the life of human families, which for centuries
flows burningly, for centuries disappears under the ground, and then comes bubbling forth again,
having gathered fresh energy from the depths of the earth. And the people seemed to him to
be an immense reservoir into which the rivers of the past plunge, while the rivers of the future
spring forth again, and, though they bear a new name, are sometimes the same as those of old.

He was in sympathy with both Guerin and Hurteloup: but it is obvious that they could not be
company for him: between him and them there was no great possibility of conversation. The boy
Emmanuel took up more of his time: he came now almost every evening. Since their magical talk
together a revolution had taken place in the boy. He had plunged into reading with a fierce
desire for knowledge. He would come back from his books bewildered and stupefied. Sometimes
he seemed even less intelligent than before: he would hardly speak: Olivier could only get
him to answer in monosyllables: the boy would make fatuous replies to his questions. Olivier
would lose heart: he would try not to let it be seen: but he thought he had made a mistake,
and that the boy was thoroughly stupid. He could not see the frightful fevered travail in incubation
that was going on in the inner depths of the boy's soul. Besides, he was a bad teacher, and
was more fitted to sow the good seed at random in the fields than to weed the soil and plow
the furrows. Christophe's presence only served to increase the difficulty. Olivier felt a certain
awkwardness in showing his young protege to his friend: he was ashamed of Emmanuel's stupidity,
which was raised to alarming proportions when Jean-Christophe was in the room. Then the boy
would withdraw into bashful sullenness. He hated Christophe because Olivier loved him: he could
not bear any one else to have a place in his master's heart. Neither Christophe nor Olivier
had any idea of the love and jealousy tugging at the boy's heart. And yet Christophe had been
through it himself in old days. But he was unable to see himself in the boy who was fashioned
of such different metal from that of which he himself was made. In the strange obscure combination
of inherited taints, everything, love, hate, and latent genius, gave out an entirely different
sound.

       *       *       *       *       *

The First of May was approaching. A sinister rumor ran through Paris. The blustering leaders
of the C.G.T. were doing their best to spread it. Their papers were announcing the coming of
the great day, mobilizing the forces of the working-classes, and directing the word of terror
upon the point in which the comfortable classes were mostly sensitive--namely, upon the stomach....
Feri ventrem.... They were threatening them with a general strike. The scared Parisians were
leaving for the country or laying in provisions as against a siege. Christophe had met Canet,
in his motor, carrying two hams and a sack of potatoes: he was beside himself: he did not in
the least know to which party he belonged: he was in turn an old Republican, a royalist, and
a revolutionary. His cult of violence was like a compass gone wrong, with the needle darting
from north to south and from south to north. In public he still played the part of chorus to
the wild speeches of his friends: but he would have taken in petto the first dictator who came
along and swept away the red spectre.

Christophe was tickled to death by such universal cowardice. He was convinced that nothing
would come of it all. Olivier was not so sure. His birth into the burgess-class had given him
something of the inevitable and everlasting tremulation which the comfortable classes always
feel upon the recollection or the expectation of Revolution.

"That's all right!" said Christophe. "You can sleep in peace. Your Revolution isn't going to
happen to-morrow. You're all afraid. Afraid of being hurt. That sort of fear is everywhere.
In the upper-classes, in the people, in every nation, in all the nations of the West. There's
not enough blood in the whole lot of them: they're afraid of spilling a little. For the last
forty years all the fighting has been done in words, in newspaper articles. Just look at your
old Dreyfus Affair. You shouted loud enough: 'Death! Blood! Slaughter!'... Oh! you Gascons!
Spittle and ink! But how many drops of blood?"

"Don't you be so sure," said Olivier. "The fear of blood is a secret instinctive feeling that
on the first shedding of it the beast in man will see red, and the brute will appear again
under the crust of civilization: and God knows how it will ever be muzzled! Everybody hesitates
to declare war: but when the war does come it will be a frightful thing."

Christophe shrugged his shoulders and said that it was not for nothing that the heroes of the
age were lying heroes, Cyrano the braggart and the swaggering cock, Chantecler.

Olivier nodded. He knew that in France bragging is the beginning of action. However, he had
no more faith than Christophe in an immediate movement: it had been too loudly proclaimed,
and the Government was on its guard. There was reason to believe that the syndicalist strategists
would postpone the fight for a more favorable opportunity.

During the latter half of April Olivier had an attack of influenza: he used to get it every
winter about the same time, and it always used to develop into his old enemy, bronchitis. Christophe
stayed with him for a few days. The attack was only a slight one, and soon passed. But, as
usual, it left Olivier morally and physically worn out, and he was in this condition for some
time after the fever had subsided. He stayed in bed, lying still for hours without any desire
to get up or even to move: he lay there watching Christophe, who was sitting at his desk, working,
with his back towards him.

Christophe was absorbed in his work. Sometimes, when he was tired of writing, he would suddenly
get up and walk over to the piano: he would play, not what he had written, but just whatever
came into his mind. Then there came to pass a very strange thing. While the music he had written
was conceived in a style which recalled that of his earlier work, what he played was like that
of another man. It was music of a world raucous and uncontrolled. There were in it a disorder
and a violence, and incoherence which had no resemblance at all to the powerful order and logic
which were everywhere present in his other music. These unconsidered improvizations, escaping
the scrutiny of his artistic conscience, sprang, like the cry of an animal, from the flesh
rather than from the mind; and seemed to reveal a disturbance of the balance of his soul, a
storm brewing in the depths of the future. Christophe was quite unconscious of it: but Olivier
would listen, look at Christophe, and feel vaguely uneasy. In his weak condition he had a singular
power of penetration, a far-seeing eye: he saw things that no other man could perceive.

Christophe thumped out a final chord and stopped all in a sweat, and looking rather haggard:
he looked at Olivier, and there was still a troubled expression in his eyes; then he began
to laugh, and went back to his desk. Olivier asked him:

"What was that, Christophe?"

"Nothing," replied Christophe. "I'm stirring the water to attract my fish."

"Are you going to write that?"

"That? What do you mean?"

"What you've just said."

"What did I say? I don't remember." "What were you thinking of?"

"I don't know," said Christophe, drawing his hand across his forehead.

He went on writing. Silence once mere filled the room. Olivier went on looking at Christophe.
Christophe felt that he was looking, and turned. Olivier's eyes were upon him with such a hunger
of affection!

"Lazy brute!" he said gaily.

Olivier sighed.

"What's the matter?" asked Christophe.

"Oh! Christophe! To think there are so many things in you, sitting there, close at hand, treasures
that you will give to others, and I shall never be able to share!..."

"Are you mad? What's come to you?"

"I wonder what your life will be. I wonder what peril and sorrow you have still to go through....
I would like to follow you. I would like to be with you.... But I shan't see anything of it
all. I shall be left stuck stupidly by the wayside."

"Stupid? You are that. Do you think that I would leave you behind even if you wanted to be left?"

"You will forget me," said Olivier.

Christophe got up and went and sat on the bed by Olivier's side: he took his wrists, which
were wet with a clammy sweat of weakness. His nightshirt was open at the neck, showing his
weak chest, his too transparent skin, which was stretched and thin like a sail blown out by
a puff of wind to rending point. Christophe's strong fingers fumbled as he buttoned the neckband
of Olivier's nightshirt. Olivier suffered him.

"Dear Christophe!" he said tenderly. "Yet I have had one great happiness in my life!"

"Oh! what on earth are you thinking of?" said Christophe. "You're as well as I am."

"Yes," said Olivier.

"Then why talk nonsense?"

"I was wrong," said Olivier, ashamed and smiling. "Influenza is so depressing."

"Pull yourself together, though! Get up."

"Not now. Later on."

He stayed in bed, dreaming. Next day he got up. But he was only able to sit musing by the fireside.
It was a mild and misty April. Through the soft veil of silvery mist the little green leaves
were unfolding their cocoons, and invisible birds were singing the song of the hidden sun.
Olivier wound the skein of his memories. He saw himself once more as a child, in the train
carrying him away from his native town, through the mist, with his mother weeping. Antoinette
was sitting by herself at the other end of the carriage.... Delicate shapes, fine landscapes,
were drawn in his mind's eye. Lovely verses came of their own accord, with every syllable and
charming rhythm in due order. He was near his desk: he had only to reach out his hand to take
his pen and write down his poetic visions. But his will failed him: he was tired: he knew that
the perfume of his dreams would evaporate so soon as he tried to catch and hold them. It was
always so: the best of himself could never find expression: his mind was like a little valley
full of flowers: but hardly a soul had access to it: and as soon as they were picked the flowers
faded. No more than just a few had been able languidly to survive, a few delicate little tales,
a few pieces of verse, which all gave out a fragrant, fading scent. His artistic impotence
had for a long time been one of Olivier's greatest griefs. It was so hard to feel so much life
in himself and to be able to save none of it!...--Now he was resigned. Flowers do not need
to be seen to blossom. They are only the more beautiful in the fields where no hand can pluck
them. Happy, happy fields with flowers dreaming in the sun!--Here in the little valley there
was hardly any sun; but Olivier's dreams flowered all the better for it. What stories he wove
for his own delight in those days, stories sad and tender and fantastic! They came he knew
not whence, sailing like white clouds in a summer sky, melted into thin air, and others followed
them: he was full of them. Sometimes the sky was clear: in the light of it Olivier would sit
drowsily until once more, with all sail set, there would come gliding the silent ships of dreams.

In the evening the little hunchback would come in. Olivier was so full of stories that he told
him one, smiling, eager and engrossed in the tale. Often he would go on talking to himself,
with the boy breathing never a word. In the end he would altogether forget his presence....
Christophe arrived in the middle of the story, and was struck by its beauty, and asked Olivier
to begin all over again. Olivier refused:

"I am in the same position as yourself," he said. "I don't know anything about it."

"That is not true," said Christophe. "You're a regular Frenchman, and you always know exactly
what you are doing and saying. You never forget anything."

"Alas!" said Olivier.

"Begin again, then."

"I'm too tired. What's the good?"

Christophe was annoyed.

"That's all wrong," he said. "What's the good of your having ideas? You throw away what you
have. It's an utter waste." "Nothing is ever lost," said Olivier.

The little hunchback started from the stillness he had maintained during Olivier's story--sitting
with his face towards the window, with eyes blankly staring, and a frown on his face and a
fierce expression so that it was impossible to tell what he was thinking. He got up and said:

"It will be fine to-morrow."

"I bet," said Christophe to Olivier, "that he didn't even listen."

"To-morrow, the First of May," Emmanuel went on, while his morose expression lighted up.

"That is his story," said Olivier. "You shall tell it me tomorrow." "Nonsense!" said Christophe.

Next day Christophe called for Olivier to take him for a walk in Paris. Olivier was better:
but he still had the same strange feeling of exhaustion: he did not want to go out, he had
a vague fear, he did not like mixing with the crowd. His heart and mind were brave: but the
flesh was weak. He was afraid of a crush, an affray, brutality of all sorts: he knew only too
well that he was fated to be a victim, that he could not, even would not, defend himself: for
he had as great a horror of giving pain as of suffering it himself. Men who are sick in body
shudder away from physical suffering more readily than others, because they are more familiar
with it, because they have less power to resist, and because it is presented more immediately
and more poignantly to their heated imagination. Olivier was ashamed of this physical cowardice
of his which was in entire contradiction to the stoicism of his will: and he tried hard to
fight it down. But this morning the thought of human contact of any sort was painful to him,
and he would gladly have remained indoors all day long. Christophe scolded him, rallied him,
absolutely insisted on his going out and throwing off his stupor: for quite ten days he had
not had a breath of air. Olivier pretended not to pay any attention. Christophe said:

"Very well. I'll go without you. I want to see their First of May. If I don't come back to-night,
you will know that I have been locked up."

He went out. Olivier caught him up on the stairs. He would not leave Christophe to go alone.

There were very few people in the streets. A few little work-girls wearing sprays of lily-of-the-valley.
Working-people in their Sunday clothes were walking about rather listlessly. At the street
corners, and near the Metro stations were groups of policemen in plain clothes. The gates of
the Luxembourg were closed. The weather was still foggy and damp. It was a long, long time
since the sun had shown himself!... The friends walked arm in arm. They spoke but little, but
they were very glad of each other. A few words were enough to call up all their tender memories
of the intimate past. They stopped in front of a mairie to look at the barometer, which had
an upward tendency.

"To-morrow," said Olivier, "I shall see the sun."

They were quite near the house where Cecile lived. They thought of going in and giving the
baby a hug.

"No. We can do it when we come back."

On the other side of the river they began to fall in with more people. Just ordinary peaceful
people taking a walk, wearing their Sunday clothes and faces; poor people with their babies:
workmen loafing. A few here and there wore the red eglantine in their buttonholes: they looked
quite inoffensive: they were revolutionaries by dint of self-persuasion: they were obviously
quite benevolent and optimistic at heart, well satisfied with the smallest opportunities for
happiness: whether it were fine or merely passable for their holiday, they were grateful for
it ... they did not know exactly to whom ... to everything and everybody about them. They walked
along without any hurry, expansively admiring the new leaves of the trees and the pretty dresses
of the little girls who went by: they said proudly:

"Only in Paris can you see children so well dressed as that."

Christophe made fun of the famous upheaval that had been predicted.... Such nice people!...
He was quite fond of them, although a little contemptuous.

As they got farther along the crowd thickened. Men with pale hangdog faces and horrible mouths
slipped into the stream of people, all on the alert, waiting for the time to pounce on their
prey. The mud was stirred up. With every inch the river grew more and more turbid. Now it flowed
slowly thick, opaque, and heavy. Like air-bubbles rising from the depths to the greasy surface,
there came up calling voices, shrill whistles, the cries of the newsboys, piercing the dull
roar of the multitude, and made it possible to take the measure of its strata. At the end of
a street, near Amelie's restaurant, there was a noise like that of a mill-race. The crowd was
stemmed up against several ranks of police and soldiers. In front of the obstacles a serried
mass was formed, howling, whistling, singing, laughing, and eddying this way and that.... The
laughter of the people is the only means they have of expressing a thousand obscure and yet
deep feelings which cannot find an outlet in words!...

The multitude was not hostile. The people did not know what they wanted. Until they did know
they were content to amuse themselves--after their own nervous, brutal fashion, still without
malice--to amuse themselves with pushing and being pushed, insulting the police and each other.
But little by little, they lost their ardor. Those who came up from behind got tired of being
able to see nothing, and were the more provocative inasmuch as they ran little risk behind
the shelter of the human barricade in front of them. Those in front, being crushed between
those who were pushing and those who were offering resistance, grew more and more exasperated
as their position became more and more intolerable: the force of the current pushing them on
increased their own force an hundredfold. And all of them, as they were squeezed closer and
closer together, like cattle, felt the warmth of the whole herd creeping through their breasts
and their loins: and it seemed to them then that they formed a solid block: and each was all,
each was a giant with the arms of Briareus. Every now and then a wave of blood would surge
to the heart of the thousand-headed monster: eyes would dart hatred, murderous cries would
go up. Men cowering away in the third and fourth row began to throw stones. Whole families
were looking down from the windows of the houses: it was like being at the play: they excited
the mob and waited with a little thrill of agonized impatience for the troops to charge.

Christophe forced his way through the dense throng with elbows and knees, like a wedge. Olivier
followed him. The living mass parted for a moment to let them pass and closed again at once
behind them. Christophe was in fine fettle. He had entirely forgotten that only five minutes
ago he had denied the possibility of an upheaval of the people. Hardly had he set foot inside
the stream than he was swept along: though he was a foreigner in this crowd of Frenchmen and
a stranger to their demands, yet he was suddenly engulfed by them: little he cared what they
wanted: he wanted it too: little he cared whither they were going: he was going too, drinking
in the breath of their madness.

Olivier was dragged along after him, but it was no joy to him; he saw clearly, he never lost
his self-consciousness, and was a thousand times more a stranger to the passions of these people
who were his people than Christophe, and yet he was carried away by them like a piece of wreckage.
His illness, which had weakened him, had also relaxed everything that bound him to life. How
far removed he felt from these people!... Being free from the delirium that was in them and
having all his wits at liberty, his mind took in the minutest details. It gave him pleasure
to gaze at the bust of a girl standing in front of him and at her pretty, white neck. And at
the same time he was disgusted by the sickly, thick smell that was given off from the close-packed
heap of bodies.

"Christophe!" he begged.

Christophe did not hear him.

"Christophe!"

"Eh?"

"Let's go home."

"You're afraid?" said Christophe.

He pushed on. Olivier followed him with a sad smile.

A few rows in front of them, in the danger zone where the people were so huddled together as
to form a solid barricade, he saw his friend the little hunchback perched on the roof of a
newspaper kiosk. He was clinging with both hands, and crouching in a most uncomfortable position,
and laughing as he looked over the wall of soldiers: and then he would turn again and look
back at the crowd with an air of triumph. He saw Olivier and beamed at him: then once more
he began to peer across the soldiers, over the square, with his eyes wide staring in hope and
expectation ... of what?--Of the thing which was to come to pass.... He was not alone. There
were many, many others all around him waiting for the miracle! And Olivier, looking at Christophe,
saw that he too was expecting it.

He called to the boy and shouted to him to come down. Emmanuel pretended not to hear and looked
away. He had seen Christophe. He was glad to be in a position of peril in the turmoil, partly
to show his courage to Olivier, partly to punish him for being with Christophe.

Meanwhile they had come across some of their friends in the crowd,--Coquard, with his golden
beard, who expected nothing more than a little jostling and crushing, and with the eye of an
expert was watching for the moment when the vessel would overflow. Farther on they met the
fair Berthe, who was slanging the people about her and getting roughly mauled. She had succeeded
in wriggling through to the front row, and she was hurling insults at the police. Coquard came
up to Christophe. When Christophe saw him he began to chaff him:

"What did I tell you? Nothing is going to happen."

"That remains to be seen!" said Coquard. "Don't you be too sure. It won't be long before the
fun begins."

"Rot!" said Christophe.

At that very moment the cuirassiers, getting tired of having stones flung at them, marched
forward to clear the entrances to the square: the central body came forward at a double. Immediately
the stampede began. As the Gospel has it, the first were last. But they took good care not
to be last for long. By way of covering their confusion the runaways yelled at the soldiers
following them and screamed: "Assassins!" long before a single blow had been struck. Berthe
wriggled through the crowd like an eel, shrieking at the top of her voice. She rejoined her
friends; and taking shelter behind Coquard's broad back, she recovered her breath, pressed
close up against Christophe, gripped his arm, in fear or for some other reason, ogled Olivier,
and shook her fist at the enemy, and screeched. Coquard took Christophe's arm and said:

"Let's go to Amelie's,"

They had very little way to go. Berthe had preceded them with Graillot and a few workmen. Christophe
was on the point of entering followed by Olivier. The street had a shelving ridge. The pavement,
by the creamery, was five or six steps higher than the roadway. Olivier stopped to take a long
breath after his escape from the crowd. He disliked the idea of being in the poisoned air of
the restaurant and the clamorous voices of these fanatics. He said to Christopher:

"I'm going home."

"Very well, then, old fellow," said Christophe. "I'll rejoin you in an hour from now."

"Don't run any risks, Christophe!"

"Coward!" said Christophe, laughing.

He turned into the creamery.

Olivier walked along to the corner of the shop. A few steps more and he would be in a little
by-street which would take him out of the uproar. The thought of his little protege crossed
his mind. He turned to look for him. He saw him at the very moment when Emmanuel had slipped
down from his coign of vantage and was rolling on the ground being trampled underfoot by the
rabble: the fugitives were running over his body: the police were just reaching the spot. Olivier
did not stop to think: he rushed down the steps and ran to his aid. A navvy saw the danger,
the soldiers with drawn sabers. Olivier holding out his hand to the boy to help him up, the
savage rush of the police knocked them both over. He shouted out, and in his turn rushed in.
Some of his comrades followed at a run. Others rushed down from the threshold of the restaurant,
and, on their cries, came those who had already entered. The two bodies of men hurled themselves
at each other's throats like dogs. And the women, standing at the top of the steps, screamed
and yelled.--So Olivier, the aristocrat, the essentially middle-class nature, released the
spring of the battle, which no man desired less than he.

Christophe was swept along by the workmen and plunged into the fray without knowing who had
been the cause of it. Nothing was farther from his thoughts than that Olivier had taken part
in it. He thought him far away in safety. It was impossible to see anything of the fight. Every
man had enough to do in keeping an eye on his opponent. Olivier had disappeared in the whirlpool
like a foundered ship. He had received a jab from a bayonet, meant for some one else, in his
left breast: he fell: the crowd trampled him underfoot. Christophe had been swept away by an
eddy to the farthest extremity of the field of battle. He did not fight with any animosity:
he jostled and was jostled with a fierce zest as though he was in the throng at a village fair.
So little did he think of the serious nature of the affair that when he was gripped by a huge,
broad-shouldered policeman and closed with him, he saw the thing in grotesque and said:

"My waltz, I think."

But when another policeman pounced on to his back, he shook himself like a wild boar, and hammered
away with his fists at the two of them: he had no intention of being taken prisoner. One of
his adversaries, the man who had seized him from behind, rolled down on the ground. The other
lost his head and drew his sword. Christophe saw the point of the saber come within a hand's
breadth of his chest: he dodged, and twisted the man's wrist and tried to wrench his weapon
from him. He could not understand it: till then it had seemed to him just a game. They went
on struggling and battering at each other's faces. He had no time to stop to think. He saw
murder in the other man's eyes: and murderous desire awoke in him. He saw that the man would
slit him up like a sheep. With a sudden movement he turned the man's hand and sword against
himself: he plunged the sword into his breast, felt that he was killing him, and killed him.
And suddenly the whole thing was changed: he was mad, intoxicated, and he roared aloud.

His yells produced an indescribable effect. The crowd had smelt blood. In a moment it became
a savage pack. On all sides swords were drawn. The red flag appeared in the windows of the
houses. And old memories of Parisian revolutions prompted them to build a barricade. The stones
were torn up from the street, the gas lamps were wrenched away, trees were pulled up, an omnibus
was overturned. A trench that had been left open for months in connection with work on the
Metropolitain was turned to account. The cast-iron railings round the trees were broken up
and used as missiles. Weapons were brought out of pockets and from the houses. In less than
an hour the scuffle had grown into an insurrection: the whole district was in a state of siege.
And, on the barricade, was Christophe, unrecognizable, shouting his revolutionary song, which
was taken up by a score of voices. Olivier had been carried to Amelie's. He was unconscious.
He had been laid on a bed in the dark back-shop. At the foot of the bed stood the hunchback,
numbed and distraught. At first Berthe had been overcome with emotion: at a distance she had
thought it was Graillot who had been wounded, and, when she recognized Olivier, her first exclamation
had been:

"What a good thing! I thought it was Leopold."

But now she was full of pity.. And she kissed Olivier and held his head on the pillow. With
her usual calmness Amelie had undone his clothes and dressed his wound. Manousse Heimann was
there, fortunately, with his inseparable Canet. Like Christophe they had come out of curiosity
to see the demonstration: they had been present at the affray and seen Olivier fall. Canet
was blubbering like a child: and at the same time he was thinking:

"What on earth am I doing here?"

Manousse examined Olivier: at once he saw that it was all over. He had a great feeling for
Olivier: but he was not a man to worry about what can't be helped: and he turned his thoughts
to Christophe. He admired Christophe though he regarded him as a pathological case. He knew
his ideas about the Revolution: and he wanted to deliver him from the idiotic danger he was
running in a cause that was not his own. The risk of a broken head in the scuffle was not the
only one: if Christophe were taken, everything pointed to his being used as an example and
getting more than he bargained for. Manousse had long ago been warned that the police had their
eye on Christophe: they would saddle him not only with his own follies but with those of others.
Xavier Bernard, whom Manousse had just encountered, prowling through the crowd, for his own
amusement as well as in pursuit of duty, had nodded to him as he passed and said:

"That Krafft of yours is an idiot. Would you believe that he's putting himself up as a mark
on the barricade! We shan't miss him this time. You'd better get him out of harm's way."

That was easier said than done. If Christophe were to find out that Olivier was dying he would
become a raging madman, he would go out to kill, he would be killed. Manousse said to Bernard:

"If he doesn't go at once, he's done for. I'll try and take him away."

"How?"

"In Canet's motor. It's over there at the corner of the street."

"Please, please...." gulped Canet.

"You must take him to Laroche," Manousse went on. "You will get there in time to catch the
Pontarlier express. You must pack him off to Switzerland."

"He won't go."

"He will. I'll tell him that Jeannin will follow him, or has already gone."

Without paying any attention to Canet's objections Manousse set out to find Christophe on the
barricade. He was not very courageous, he started every time he heard a shot: and he counted
the cobble-stones over which he stepped--(odd or even), to make out his chances of being killed.
He did not stop, but went through with it. When he reached the barricade he found Christophe,
perched on a wheel of the overturned omnibus, amusing himself by firing pistol-shots into the
air. Round the barricade the riff-raff of Paris, spewed up from the gutters, had swollen up
like the dirty water from a sewer after heavy rain. The original combatants were drowned by
it. Manousse shouted to Christophe, whose back was turned to him. Christophe did not hear him.
Manousse climbed up to him and plucked at his sleeve. Christophe pushed him away and almost
knocked him down. Manousse stuck to it, climbed up again, and shouted:

"Jeannin...."

In the uproar the rest of the sentence was lost. Christophe stopped short, dropped his revolver,
and, slipping down from his scaffolding, he rejoined Manousse, who started pulling him away.

"You must clear out," said Manousse.

"Where is Olivier?"

"You must clear out," repeated Manousse.

"Why?" said Christophe.

"The barricade will be captured in an hour. You will be arrested to-night."

"What have I done?"

"Look at your hands.... Come!... There's no room for doubt, they won't spare you. Everybody
recognized you. You've not got a moment to lose."

"Where is Olivier?"

"At home."

"I'll go and join him."

"You can't do that. The police are waiting for you at the door. He sent me to warn you. You
must cut and run."

"Where do you want me to go?"

"To Switzerland. Canet will take you out of this in his car."

"And Olivier?"

"There's no time to talk...."

"I won't go without seeing him."

"You'll see him there. He'll join you to-morrow. He'll go by the first train. Quick! I'll explain."

He caught hold of Christophe. Christophe was dazed by the noise and the wave of madness that
had rushed through him, could not understand what he had done and what he was being asked to
do, and let himself be dragged away. Manousse took his arm, and with his other hand caught
hold of Canet, who was not at all pleased with the part allotted to him in the affair: and
he packed the two of them into the car. The worthy Canet would have been bitterly sorry if
Christophe had been caught, but he would have much preferred some one else to help him to escape.
Manousse knew his man. And as he had some qualms about Canet's cowardice, he changed his mind
just as he was leaving them and the car was getting into its stride and climbed up and sat
with them.

Olivier did not recover consciousness. Amelie and the little hunchback were left alone in the
room. Such a sad room it was, airless and gloomy! It was almost dark.... For one instant Olivier
emerged from the abyss. He felt Emmanuel's tears and kisses on his hand. He smiled faintly,
and painfully laid his hand on the boy's head. Such a heavy hand it was!... Then he sank back
once more....

By the dying man's head, on the pillow, Amelie had laid a First of May nosegay, a few sprays
of lily-of-the-valley. A leaky tap in the courtyard dripped, dripped into a bucket. For a second
mental images hovered tremblingly at the back of his mind, like a light flickering and dying
down ... a house in the country with glycine on the walls: a garden where a child was playing:
a boy lying on the turf: a little fountain plashing in its stone basin: a little girl laughing....

II

They drove out of Paris. They crossed the vast plains of France shrouded in mist. It was an
evening like that on which Christophe had arrived in Paris ten years before. He was a fugitive
then, as now. But then his friend, the man who loved him, was alive: and Christophe was fleeing
towards him....

During the first hour Christophe was still under the excitement of the fight: he talked volubly
in a loud voice: in a breathless, jerky fashion he kept on telling what he had seen and heard:
he was proud of his achievement and felt no remorse. Manousse and Canet talked too, by way
of making him forget. Gradually his feverish excitement subsided, and Christophe stopped talking:
his two companions went on making conversation alone. He was a little bewildered by the afternoon's
adventures, but in no way abashed. He recollected the time when he had come to France, a fugitive
then, always a fugitive. It made him laugh. No doubt he was fated to be so. It gave him no
pain to be leaving Paris: the world is wide: men are the same everywhere. It mattered little
to him where he might be so long as he was with his friend. He was counting on seeing him again
next day. They had promised him that.

They reached Laroche. Manousse and Canet did not leave him until they had seen him into the
train. Christophe made them say over the name of the place where he was to get out, and the
name of the hotel, and the post-office where he would find his letters. In spite of themselves,
as they left him, they both looked utterly dejected. Christophe wrung their hands gaily.

"Come!" he shouted, "don't look so like a funeral Good Lord, we shall meet again! Nothing easier!
We'll write to each other to-morrow."

The train started. They watched it disappear.

"Poor devil!" said Manousse.

They got back into the car. They were silent. After a short time Canet said to Manousse:

"Bah! the dead are dead. We must help the living."

As night fell Christophe's excitement subsided altogether. He sat huddled in a corner of the
carriage, and pondered. He was sobered and icy cold. He looked down at his hands and saw blood
on them that was not his own. He gave a shiver of disgust. The scene of the murder came before
him once more. He remembered that he had killed a man: and now he knew not why. He began to
go over the whole battle from the very beginning; but now he saw it in a very different light.
He could not understand how he had got mixed up in it. He went back over every incident of
the day from the moment when he had left the house with Olivier: he saw the two of them walking
through Paris until the moment when he had been caught up by the whirlwind. There he lost the
thread: the chain of his thoughts was snapped: how could he have shouted and struck out and
moved with those men with whose beliefs he disagreed? It was not he, it was not he!... It was
a total eclipse of his will!... He was dazed by it and ashamed. He was not his own master then?
Who was his master?... He was being carried by the express through the night: and the inward
night through which he was being carried was no less dark, nor was the unknown force less swift
and dizzy.... He tried hard to shake off his unease: but one anxiety was followed by another.
The nearer he came to his destination, the more he thought of Olivier; and he was oppressed
by an unreasoning fear.

As he arrived he looked through the window across the platform for the familiar face of his
friend.... There was no one. He got out and still went on looking about him. Once or twice
he thought he saw.... No, it was not "he." He went to the appointed hotel. Olivier was not
there. There was no reason for Christophe to be surprised: how could Olivier have preceded
him?... But from that moment on he was in an agony of suspense.

It was morning. Christophe went up to his room. Then he came down again, had breakfast, sauntered
through the streets. He pretended to be free of anxiety and looked at the lake and the shop-windows,
chaffed the girl in the restaurant, and turned over the illustrated papers.... Nothing interested
him. The day dragged through, slowly and heavily. About seven o'clock in the evening, Christophe
having, for want of anything else to do, dined early and eaten nothing, went up to his room,
and asked that as soon as the friend he was expecting arrived, he should be brought up to him.
He sat down at the desk with his back turned to the door. He had nothing to busy himself with,
no baggage, no books: only a paper that he had just bought: he forced himself to read it: but
his mind was wandering: he was listening for footsteps in the corridor. All his nerves were
on edge with the exhaustion of a day's anxious waiting and a sleepless night.

Suddenly he heard some one open the door. Some indefinable feeling made him not turn around
at once. He felt a hand on his shoulder. Then he turned and saw Olivier smiling at him. He
was not surprised, and said:

"Ah, here you are at last!"

The illusion vanished.

Christophe got up suddenly, knocking over chair and table. His hair stood on end. He stood
still for a moment, livid, with his teeth chattering.

At the end of that moment--(in vain did he shut his eyes to it and tell himself: "I know nothing")--he
knew everything: he was sure of what he was going to hear.

He could not stay in his room. He went down into the street and walked about for an hour. When
he returned the porter met him in the hall of the hotel and gave him a letter. The letter.
He was quite sure it would be there. His hand trembled as he took it. He opened it, saw that
Olivier was dead, and fainted.

The letter was from Manousse. It said that in concealing the disaster from him the day before,
and hurrying him off, they had only been obeying Olivier's wishes, who had desired to insure
his friend's escape,--that it was useless for Christophe to stay, as it would mean the end
of him also,--that it was his duty to seek safety for the sake of his friend's memory, and
for his other friends, and for the sake of his own fame, etc., etc.... Amelie had added three
lines in her big, scrawling handwriting, to say that she would take every care of the poor
little gentleman....

When Christophe came back to himself he was furiously angry. He wanted to kill Manousse. He
ran to the station. The hall of the hotel was empty, the streets were deserted: in the darkness
the few belated passers-by did not notice his wildly staring eyes or his furious breathing.
His mind had fastened as firmly as a bulldog with its fangs on to the one fixed idea: "Kill
Manousse! Kill!..." He wanted to return to Paris. The night express had gone an hour before.
He had to wait until the next morning. He could not wait. He took the first train that went
in the direction of Paris, a train which stopped at every station. When he was left alone in
the carriage Christophe cried over and over again:

"It is not true! It is not true!"

At the second station across the French frontier the train stopped altogether: it did not go
any farther. Shaking with fury, Christophe got out and asked for another train, battering the
sleepy officials with questions, and only knocking up against indifference. Whatever he did
he would arrive too late. Too late for Olivier. He could not even manage to catch Manousse.
He would be arrested first. What was he to do? Which way to turn? To go on? To go back? What
was the use? What was the use?... He thought of giving himself up to a gendarme who went past
him. He was held back by an obscure instinct for life which bade him return to Switzerland.
There was no train in either direction for a few hours. Christophe sat down in the waiting-room,
could not keep still, left the station, and blindly followed the road on through the night.
He found himself in the middle of a bare countryside--fields, broken here and there with clumps
of pines, the vanguard of a forest. He plunged into it. He had hardly gone more than a few
steps when he flung himself down on the ground and cried:

"Olivier!"

He lay across the path and sobbed.

A long time afterwards a train whistling in the distance roused him and made him get up. He
tried to go back to the station, but took the wrong road. He walked on all through the night.
What did it matter to him where he went? He went on walking to keep from thinking, walking,
walking, until he could not think, walking on in the hope that he might fall dead. Ah! if only
he might die!...

At dawn he found himself in a French village a long way from the frontier. All night he had
been walking away from it. He went into an inn, ate a huge meal, set out once more, and walked
on and on. During the day he sank down in the middle of a field and lay there asleep until
the evening. When he woke up it was to face another night. His fury had abated. He was left
only with frightful grief that choked him. He dragged himself to a farmhouse, and asked for
a piece of bread and a truss of straw for a bed. The farmer stared hard at him, cut him a slice
of bread, led him into the stable, and locked it. Christophe lay in the straw near the thickly-smelling
cows, and devoured his bread. Tears were streaming down his face. Neither his hunger nor his
sorrow could be appeased. During the night sleep once more delivered him from his agony for
a few hours. He woke up next day on the sound of the door opening. He lay still and did not
move. He did not want to come back to life. The farmer stopped and looked down at him for a
long time: he was holding in his hand a paper, at which he glanced from time to time. At last
he moved forward and thrust his newspaper in front of Christophe. His portrait was on the front
page.

"It is I," said Christophe. "You'd better give me up."

"Get up," said the farmer.

Christophe got up. The man motioned to him to follow. They went behind the barn and walked
along a winding path through an orchard. They came to a cross, and then the farmer pointed
along a road and said to Christophe:

"The frontier is over there."

Christophe walked on mechanically. He did not know why he should go on. He was so tired, so
broken in body and soul, that he longed to stop with every stride. But he felt that if he were
to stop he would never be able to go on again, never budge from the spot where he fell. He
walked on right through the day. He had not a penny to buy bread. Besides, he avoided the villages.
He had a queer feeling which entirely baffled his reason, that, though he wished to die, he
was afraid of being taken prisoner: his body was like a hunted animal fleeing before its captors.
His physical wretchedness, exhaustion, hunger, an obscure feeling of terror which was augmented
by his worn-out condition, for the time being smothered his moral distress. His one thought
was to find a refuge where he could in safety be alone with his distress and feed on it.

He crossed the frontier. In the distance he saw a town surmounted with towers and steeples
and factory chimneys, from which the thick smoke streamed like black rivers, monotonously,
all in the same direction across the gray sky under the rain. He was very near a collapse.
Just then he remembered that he knew a German doctor, one Erich Braun, who lived in the town,
and had written to him the year before, after one of his successes, to remind him of their
old acquaintance. Dull though Braun might be, little though he might enter into his life, yet,
like a wounded animal, Christophe made a supreme effort before he gave in to reach the house
of some one who was not altogether a stranger.

Under the cloud of smoke and rain, he entered the gray and red city. He walked through it,
seeing nothing, asking his way, losing himself, going back, wandering aimlessly. He was at
the end of his tether. For the last time he screwed up his will that was so near to breaking-point
to climb up the steep alleys, and the stairs which went to the top of a stiff little hill,
closely overbuilt with houses round a gloomy church. There were sixty red stone steps in threes
and sixes. Between each little flight of steps was a narrow platform for the door of a house.
On each platform Christophe stopped swaying to take breath. Far over his head, above the church
tower, crows were whirling.

At last he came upon the name he was looking for. He knocked.--The alley was in darkness. In
utter weariness he closed his eyes. All was dark within him.... Ages passed.

The narrow door was opened. A woman appeared on the threshold. Her face was in darkness: but
her outline was sharply shown against the background of a little garden which could be clearly
seen at the end of a long passage, in the light of the setting sun. She was tall, and stood
very erect, without a word, waiting for him to speak. He could not see her eyes: but he felt
them taking him in. He asked for Doctor Erich Braun and gave his name. He had great difficulty
in getting the words out. He was worn out with fatigue, hunger, and thirst. Without a word
the woman went away, and Christophe followed her into a room with closed shutters. In the darkness
he bumped into her: his knees and body brushed against her. She went out again and closed the
door of the room and left him in the dark. He stayed quite still, for fear of knocking something
over, leaning against the wall with his forehead against the soft hangings: his ears buzzed:
the darkness seemed alive and throbbing to his eyes.

Overhead he heard a chair being moved, an exclamation of surprise, a door slammed. Then came
heavy footsteps down the stairs.

"Where is he?" asked a voice that he knew.

The door of the room was opened once more.

"What! You left him in the dark! Anna! Good gracious! A light!"

Christophe was so weak, he was so utterly wretched, that the sound of the man's loud voice,
cordial as it was, brought him comfort in his misery. He gripped the hand that was held out
to him. The two men looked at each other. Braun was a little man: he had a red face with a
black, scrubby and untidy beard, kind eyes twinkling behind spectacles, a broad, bumpy, wrinkled,
worried, inexpressive brow, hair carefully plastered down and parted right down to his neck.
He was very ugly: but Christophe was very glad to see him and to be shaking hands with him.
Braun made no effort to conceal his surprise.

"Good Heavens! How changed he is! What a state he is in!"

"I'm just come from Paris," said Christophe, "I'm a fugitive."

"I know, I know. We saw the papers. They said you were caught. Thank God! You've been much
in our thoughts, mine and Anna's."

He stopped and made Christophe known to the silent creature who had admitted him:

"My wife."

She had stayed in the doorway of the room with a lamp in her hand. She had a taciturn face
with a firm chin. The light fell on her brown hair with its reddish shades of color, and on
her pallid cheeks. She held out her hand to Christophe stiffly with the elbow close against
her side: he took it without looking at her. He was almost done.

"I came...." he tried to explain. "I thought you would be so kind ... if it isn't putting you
out too much ... as to put me up for a day--"

Braun did not let him finish.

"A day!... Twenty days, fifty, as long as you like. As long as you are in this country you
shall stay in our house: and I hope you will stay for a long time. It is an honor and a great
happiness for us."

Christophe was overwhelmed by his kind words. He flung himself into Braun's arms.

"My dear Christophe, my dear Christophe!" said Braun.... "He is weeping.... Well, well what
is it?... Anna! Anna!... Quick, he has fainted...."

Christophe had collapsed in his host's arms. He had succumbed to the fainting fit which had
been imminent for several hours.

When he opened his eyes again he was lying in a great bed. A smell of wet earth came up through
the open window. Braun was bending over him.

"Forgive me," murmured Christophe, trying to get up.

"He is dying of hunger!" cried Braun.

The woman went out and returned with a cup and gave him to drink. Braun held his head. Christophe
was restored to life: but his exhaustion was stronger than his hunger: hardly was his head
laid back on the pillow than he went to sleep. Braun and his wife watched over him: then, seeing
that he only needed rest, they left him.

He fell into the sort of sleep that seems to last for years, a heavy crushing sleep, dropping
like a piece of lead to the bottom of a lake. In such a sleep a man is a prey to his accumulated
weariness and the monstrous hallucinations which are forever prowling at the gates of his will.
He tried to wake up, burning, broken, lost in the impenetrable darkness: he heard the clocks
striking the half hours: he could not breathe, or think, or move: he was bound and gagged like
a man flung into water to drown: he tried to struggle, but only sank down again.--Dawn came
at length, the tardy gray dawn of a rainy day. The intolerable heat that consumed him grew
less: but his body was pinned under the weight of a mountain. He woke up. It was a terrible
awakening.

"Why open my eyes? Why wake up? Rather stay, like my poor friend, who is lying under the earth...."

He lay on his back and never moved, although he was cramped by his position in the bed: his
legs and arms were heavy as stone. He was in a grave. A dim pale light. A few drops of rain
dashed against the windows. A bird in the garden was uttering a little plaintive cry. Oh! the
misery of life! The cruel futility of it all!...

The hours crept by. Braun came in. Christophe did not turn his head. Seeing his eyes open,
Braun greeted him joyfully: and as Christophe went on grimly staring at the ceiling he tried
to make him shake off his melancholy: he sat down on the bed and chattered noisily. Christophe
could not bear the noise. He made an effort, superhuman it seemed to him, and said:

"Please leave me alone."

The good little man changed his tone at once.

"You want to be alone? Why, of course. Keep quiet. Rest, don't talk, we'll bring you up something
to eat, and no one shall say a word."

But it was impossible for him to be brief. After endless explanations he tiptoed from the room
with his huge slippers creaking on the floor. Christophe was left alone once more, and sank
back into his mortal weariness. His thoughts were veiled by the mist of suffering. He wore
himself out in trying to understand.... "Why had he known him? Why had he loved him? What good
had Antoinette's devotion been? What was the meaning of all the lives and generations,--so
much experience and hope--ending in that life, dragged down with it into the void?"... Life
was meaningless. Death was meaningless. A man was blotted out, shuffled out of existence, a
whole family disappeared from the face of the earth, leaving no trace. Impossible to tell whether
it is more odious or more grotesque. He burst into a fit of angry laughter, laughter of hatred
and despair. His impotence in the face of such sorrow, his sorrow in the face of such impotence,
were dragging him down to death. His heart was broken....

There was not a sound in the house, save the doctor's footsteps as he went out on his rounds.
Christophe had lost all idea of the time, when Anna appeared. She brought him some dinner on
a tray. He watched her without stirring, without even moving his lips to thank her: but in
his staring eyes, which seemed to see nothing, the image of the young woman was graven with
photographic clarity. Long afterwards, when he knew her better, it was always thus that he
saw her: later impressions were never able to efface that first memory of her. She had thick
hair done up in a heavy knob, a bulging forehead, wide cheeks, a short, straight nose, eyes
perpetually cast down, and when they met the eyes of another, they would turn away with an
expression in which there was little frankness and small kindness: her lips were a trifle thick,
and closely pressed together, and she had a stubborn, rather hard expression. She was tall,
apparently big and well made, but her clothes were very stiff and tight, and she was cramped
in her movements. She came silently and noiselessly and laid the tray on the table by the bed
and went out again with her arms close to her sides and her head down. Christophe felt no surprise
at her strange and rather absurd appearance: he did not touch his food and relapsed into his
silent suffering.

The day passed. Evening came and once more Anna with more food. She found the meal she had
brought in the morning still untouched: and she took it away without a remark. She had none
of those fond observations which all women seem instinctively to produce for the benefit of
an invalid. It was as though Christophe did not exist for her, as though she herself hardly
existed. This time Christophe felt a sort of dumb hostility as impatiently he followed her
awkward hasty movements. However, he was grateful to her for not trying to talk.--He was even
more grateful to her when, after she had gone, he had to put up with the doctor's protestations,
when he observed that Christophe had not touched the earlier meal. He was angry with his wife
for not having forced Christophe to eat, and now tried to compel him to do so. For the sake
of peace, Christophe had to gulp down a little milk. After that he turned his back on him.

The next night was more tranquil. Heavy sleep once more drew Christophe into its state of nothingness.
Not a trace of hateful life was left.--But waking up was even more suffocating than before.
He went on turning over and over all the details of the fateful day, Olivier's reluctance to
leave the house, his urgent desire to go home, and he said to himself in despair:

"It was I who killed him...."

He could not bear to stay there any longer, shut up in that room, lying motionless beneath
the claws of the fierce-eyed sphinx that went on battering him with its dizzy rain of questions
and its deathlike breath. He got up all in a fever: he dragged himself out of the room and
went downstairs: in his instinctive fear he was driven to cling to other human creatures. And
as soon as he heard another voice he felt a longing to rush away.

Braun was in the dining-room. He received Christophe with his usual demonstrations of friendship
and at once began to ply him with questions as to what had happened in Paris. Christophe seized
him by the arm:

"No," he said. "Don't ask me. Later on.... You mustn't mind. I can't, now. I'm dead tired,
worn out...."

"I know, I know," said Braun kindly. "Your nerves are shaken. The emotions of the last few
days. Don't talk. Don't put yourself out in any way. You are free, you are at home here. No
one will worry about you."

He kept his word. By way of sparing his guest he went to the opposite extreme: he dared not
even talk to his wife in Christophe's presence: he talked in whispers and walked about on tiptoe:
the house became still and silent. Exasperated by the whispering and the silence and the affectation
of it all, Christophe had to beg Braun to go on living just as he usually did.

For some days no one paid any attention to Christophe. He would sit for hours together in the
corner of a room, or he would wander through the house like a man in a dream. What were his
thoughts? He hardly knew. He hardly had even strength enough to suffer. He was crushed. The
dryness of his heart was a horror to him. He had only one desire: to be buried with "him" and
to make an end.--One day he found the garden-door open and went out. But it hurt him so much
to be in the light of day that he returned hurriedly and shut himself up in his room with all
the shutters closed. Fine days were torture to him. He hated the sun. The brutal serenity of
Nature overwhelmed him. At meals he would eat in silence the food that Braun laid before him,
and he would sit with never a word staring down at the table. One day Braun pointed to the
piano in the drawing-room: Christophe turned from it in terror. Noise of any sort was detestable
to him. Silence, silence, and the night!... There was nothing in him save an aching void, and
a need of emptiness. Gone was his joy in life, gone the splendid bird of joy that once used
to soar blithely, ecstatically upwards, pouring out song. There were days when, sitting in
his room, he had no more feeling of life than the halting tic-tac of the clock in the next
room, that seemed to be beating in his own brain. And yet, the wild bird of joy was still in
him, it would suddenly take flight, and flutter against the bars of its cage: and in the depths
of his soul there was a frightful tumult of sorrow--"the bitter cry of one living in the wilderness...."

The world's misery lies in this, that a man hardly ever has a companion. Women perhaps, and
chance friendships. We are reckless in our use of the lovely word, friend. In reality we hardly
have a single friend all through our lives. Rare, very rare, are those men who have real friends.
But the happiness of it is so great that it is impossible to live when they are gone. The friend
filled the life of his friend, unbeknown to him, unmarked. The friend goes: and life is empty.
Not only the beloved is lost, but every reason for loving, every reason for having loved. Why
had he lived? Why had either lived?

The blow of Olivier's death was the more terrible to Christophe in that it fell just at a time
when his whole nature was in a state of upheaval. There are in life certain ages when there
takes place a silently working organic change in a man: then body and soul are more susceptible
to attack from without; the mind is weakened, its power is sapped by a vague sadness, a feeling
of satiety, a sort of detachment from what it is doing, an incapacity for seeing any other
course of action. At such periods of their lives when these crises occur, the majority of men
are bound by domestic ties, forming a safeguard for them, which, it is true, deprives them
of the freedom of mind necessary for self-judgment, for discovering where they stand, and for
beginning to build up a healthy new life. For them so many sorrows, so much bitterness and
disgust remain concealed!... Onward! Onward! A man must ever be pressing on.... The common
round, anxiety and care for the family for which he is responsible, keep a man like a jaded
horse, sleeping between the shafts, and trotting on and on.--But a free man has nothing to
support him in his hours of negation, nothing to force him to go on. He goes on as a matter
of habit: he knows not whither he is going. His powers are scattered, his consciousness is
obscured. It is an awful thing for him if, just at the moment when he is most asleep, there
comes a thunderclap to break in upon his somnambulism! Then he comes very nigh to destruction.

A few letters from Paris, which at last reached him, plucked Christophe for a moment out of
his despairing apathy. They were from Cecile and Madame Arnaud. They brought him messages of
comfort. Cold comfort. Futile condolence. Those who talk about suffering know it not. The letters
only brought him an echo of the voice that was gone.... He had not the heart to reply: and
the letters ceased. In his despondency he tried to blot out his tracks. To disappear.... Suffering
is unjust: all those who had loved him dropped out of his existence. Only one creature still
existed: the man who was dead. For many weeks he strove to bring him to life again: he used
to talk to him, write to him:

"My dear, I had no letter from you to-day. Where are you? Come back, come back, speak to me,
write to me!..."

But at night, hard though he tried, he could never succeed in seeing him in his dreams. We
rarely dream of those we have lost, while their loss is still a pain. They come back to us
later on when we are beginning to forget.

However, the outside world began gradually to penetrate to the sepulcher of Christophe's soul.
At first he became dimly conscious of the different noises in the house and to take an unwitting
interest in them. He marked the time of day when the front door opened and shut, and how often
during the day, and the different ways in which it was opened for the various visitors. He
knew Braun's step: he used to visualize the doctor coming back from his rounds, stopping in
the hall, hanging up his hat and cloak, always with the same meticulous fussy way. And when
the accustomed noises came up to him out of the order in which he had come to look for them,
he could not help trying to discover the reason for the change. At meals he began mechanically
to listen to the conversation. He saw that Braun almost always talked single-handed. His wife
used only to give him a curt reply. Braun was never put out by the want of anybody to talk
to: he used to chat pleasantly and verbosely about the houses he had visited and the gossip
he had picked up. At last, one day, Christophe looked at Braun while he was speaking: Braun
was delighted, and laid himself out to keep him interested.

Christophe tried to pick up the threads of life again.... It was utterly exhausting! He felt
old, as old as the world!... In the morning when he got up and saw himself in the mirror he
was disgusted with his body, his gestures, his idiotic figure. Get up, dress, to what end?...
He tried desperately to work: it made him sick. What was the good of creation, when everything
ends in nothing? Music had become impossible for Mm. Art--(and everything else)--can only be
rightly judged in unhappiness. Unhappiness is the touchstone. Only then do we know those who
can stride across the ages, those who are stronger than death. Very few bear the test. In unhappiness
we are struck by the mediocrity of certain souls upon whom we had counted--(and of the artists
we had loved, who had been like friends to our lives).--Who survives? How hollow does the beauty
of the world ring under the touch of sorrow!

But sorrow grows weary, the force goes from its grip. Christophe's nerves were relaxed. He
slept, slept unceasingly. It seemed that he would never succeed in satisfying his hunger for sleep.

At last one night he slept so profoundly that he did not wake up until well on into the afternoon
of the next day. The house was empty. Braun and his wife had gone out. The window was open,
and the smiling air was quivering with light. Christophe felt that a crushing weight had been
lifted from him. He got up and went down into the garden. It was a narrow rectangle, inclosed
within high walls, like those of a convent. There were gravel paths between grass-plots and
humble flowers; and an arbor of grape-vines and climbing roses. A tiny fountain trickled from
a grotto built of stones: an acacia against the wall hung its sweet-scented branches over the
next garden. Above stood the old tower of the church, of red sandstone. It was four o'clock
in the evening. The garden was already in shadow. The sun was still shining on the top of the
tree and the red belfry. Christophe sat in the arbor, with his back to the wall, and his head
thrown back, looking at the limpid sky through the interlacing tendrils of the vine and the
roses. It was like waking from a nightmare. Everywhere was stillness and silence. Above his
head nodded a cluster of roses languorously. Suddenly the most lovely rose of all shed its
petals and died: the snow of the rose-leaves was scattered on the air. It was like the passing
of a lovely innocent life. So simply!... In Christophe's mind it took on a significance of
a rending sweetness. He choked: he hid his face in his hands, and sobbed....

The bells in the church tower rang out. From one church to another called answering voices....
Christophe lost all consciousness of the passage of time. When he raised his head, the bells
were silent and the sun had disappeared. Christophe was comforted by his tears: they had washed
away the stains from his mind. Within himself he heard a little stream of music well forth
and he saw the little crescent moon glide into the evening sky. He was called to himself by
the sound of footsteps entering the house. He went up to his room, locked the door, and let
the fountain of music gush forth. Braun summoned him to dinner, knocked at the door, and tried
to open it: Christophe made no reply. Anxiously Braun looked through the keyhole and was reassured
when he saw Christophe lying half over the table surrounded with paper which he was blackening
with ink.

A few hours later, worn out, Christophe went downstairs and found the doctor reading, impatiently
waiting for him in the drawing-room. He embraced the little man, asked him to forgive him for
his strange conduct since his arrival, and, without waiting to be asked, he began to tell Braun
about the dramatic events of the past weeks. It was the only time he ever talked to him about
it: he was never sure that Braun had understood him, for he talked disconnectedly, and it was
very late, and, in spite of his eager interest, Braun was nearly dead with sleep. At last--(the
clock struck two)--Christophe saw it and they said good-night.

From that time on Christophe's existence was reconstituted. He did not maintain his condition
of transitory excitement: he came back to his sorrow, but it was normal sorrow which did not
interfere with his life. He could not help returning to life! Though he had just lost his dearest
friend in the world, though his grief had undermined him and Death had been his most intimate
companion, there was in him such an abundant, such a tyrannical force of life, that it burst
forth even in his elegies, shining forth from his eyes, his lips, his gestures. But a gnawing
canker had crept into the heart of his force. Christophe had fits of despair, transports rather.
He would be quite calm, trying to read, or walking: suddenly he would see Olivier's smile,
his tired, gentle face.... It would tug at his heart.... He would falter, lay his hand on his
breast, and moan. One day he was at the piano playing a passage from Beethoven with his old
zest.... Suddenly he stopped, flung himself on the ground, buried his face in the cushions
of a chair, and cried:

"My boy...."

Worst of all was the sensation of having "already lived" that was constantly with him. He was
continually coming across familiar gestures, familiar words, the perpetual recurrence of the
same experiences. He knew everything, had foreseen everything. One face would remind him of
a face he had known and the lips would say--(as he was quite sure they would)--exactly the
same things as he had heard from the original: beings similar to each other would pass through
similar phases, knock up against the same obstacles, suffer from them in exactly the same way.
If it is true that "nothing so much brings weariness of life as the new beginning of love,"
how much more then the new beginning of everything! It was elusive and delusive.--Christophe
tried not to think of it, since it was necessary to do so, if he were to live, and since he
wished to live. It is the saddest hypocrisy, such rejection of self-knowledge, in shame or
piety, it is the invincible imperative need of living hiding away from itself! Knowing that
no consolation is possible, a man invents consolations. Being convinced that life has no reason,
he forges reasons for living. He persuades himself that he must live, even when no one outside
himself is concerned. If need be he will go so far as to pretend that the dead man encourages
him to live. And he knows that he is putting into the dead man's mouth the words that he wishes
him to say. O misery!...

Christophe set out on the road once more: his step seemed to have regained its old assurance:
the gates of his heart were closed upon his sorrow: he never spoke of it to others: he avoided
being left alone with it himself: outwardly he seemed calm.

"Real sorrows," says Balzac, "are apparently at peace in the deep bed that they have made for
themselves, where they seem to sleep, though all the while they never cease to fret and eat
away the soul."

Any one knowing Christophe and watching him closely, seeing him coming and going, talking,
composing, even laughing--(he could laugh now!)--would have felt that for all his vigor and
the radiance of life in his eyes, something had been destroyed in him, in the inmost depths
of his life.

       *       *       *       *       *

As soon as he had regained his hold on life he had to look about him for a means of living.
There could be no question of his leaving the town. Switzerland was the safest shelter for
him: and where else could he have found more devoted hospitality?--But his pride could not
suffer the idea of his being any further a burden upon his friend. In spite of Braun's protestations,
and his refusal to accept any payment, he could not rest until he had found enough pupils to
permit of his paying his hosts for his board and lodging. It was not an easy matter. The story
of his revolutionary escapade had been widely circulated: and the worthy families of the place
were reluctant to admit a man who was regarded as dangerous, or at any rate extraordinary,
and, in consequence, not quite "respectable," to their midst. However, his fame as a musician
and Braun's good offices gained him access to four or five of the less timorous or more curious
families, who were perhaps artistically snobbish enough to desire to gain particularity. They
were none the less careful to keep an eye on him, and to maintain a respectable distance between
master and pupils.

The Braun household fell into a methodically ordered existence. In the morning each member
of it went about his business: the doctor on his rounds, Christophe to his pupils, Madame Braun
to the market and about her charitable works. Christophe used to return about one, a little
before Braun, who would not allow them to wait for him; and he used to sit down to dinner alone
with the wife. He did not like that at all: for she was not sympathetic to him, and he could
never find anything to say to her. She took no trouble to remove his impression, though it
was impossible for her not to be aware of it; she never bothered to put herself out in dress
or in mind to please him: she never spoke to Christophe first: her notable lack of charm in
movement and dress, her awkwardness, her coldness, would have repelled any man who was as sensitive
as Christophe to the charm of women. When he remembered the sparkling elegance of the Parisian
women, he could not help thinking, as he looked at Anna:

"How ugly she is!"

Yet that was unjust: and he was not slow to notice the beauty of her hair, her hands, her mouth,
her eyes,--on the rare occasions when he chanced to meet her gaze, which she always averted
at once. But his opinion was never modified. As a matter of politeness he forced himself to
speak to her: he labored to find subjects of conversation: she never gave him the smallest
assistance. Several times he tried to ask her about the town, her husband, herself: he could
get nothing out of her. She would make the most trivial answers: she would make an effort to
smile: but the effort was painfully evident; her smile was forced, her voice was hollow: she
drawled and dragged every word: her every sentence was followed by a painful silence. At last
Christophe only spoke to her as little as possible; and she was grateful to him for it. It
was a great relief to both of them when the doctor came in. He was always in a good humor,
talkative, busy, vulgar, worthy. He ate, drank, talked, laughed, plentifully. Anna used to
talk to him a little: but they hardly ever touched on anything but the food in front of them
or the price of things. Sometimes Braun would jokingly tease her about her pious works and
the minister's sermons. Then she would stiffen herself, and relapse into an offended silence
until the end of the meal. More often the doctor would talk about his patients: he would delight
in describing repulsive cases, with a pleasant elaboration of detail which used to exasperate
Christophe. Then he would throw his napkin on the table and get up, making faces of disgust
which simply delighted the teller. Braun would stop at once, and soothe his friend and laugh.
At the next meal he would begin again. His hospital pleasantries seemed to have the power to
enliven the impassive Anna. She would break her silence with a sudden nervous laugh, which
was something animal in quality. Perhaps she felt no less disgust than Christophe at the things
that made her laugh.

In the afternoon Christophe had very few pupils. Then, as a rule, he would stay at home with
Anna, while the doctor went out. They never saw each other. They used to go about their separate
business. At first Braun had begged Christophe to give his wife a few lessons on the piano:
she was, he said, an excellent musician. Christophe asked Anna to play him something. She did
not need to be pressed, although she disliked doing it: but she did it with her usual ungraciousness:
she played mechanically, with an incredible lack of sensibility: each note was like another:
there was no sort of rhythm or expression: when she had to turn the page she stopped short
in the middle of a bar, made no haste about it, and went on with the next note. Christophe
was so exasperated by it that he was hard put to it to keep himself from making an insulting
remark: he could not help going out of the room before she had finished. She was not put out,
but went on imperturbably to the very last note, and seemed to be neither hurt nor indignant
at his rudeness: she hardly seemed to have noticed it. But the matter of music was never again
mentioned between them. Sometimes in the afternoons when Christophe was out and returned unexpectedly,
he would find Anna practising the piano, with icy, dull tenacity, going over and over one passage
fifty times, and never by any chance showing the least animation. She never played when she
knew that Christophe was at home. She devoted all the time that was not consecrated to her
religious duties to her household work. She used to sew, and mend, and darn, and look after
the servant: she had a mania for tidiness and cleanliness. Her husband thought her a fine woman,
a little odd--"like all women," he used to say--but "like all women," devoted. On that last
point Christophe made certain reservations in petto: such psychology seemed to him too simple;
but he told himself that, after all, it was Braun's affair; and he gave no further thought
to the matter.

They used to sit together after dinner in the evening. Braun and Christophe would talk. Anna
would sit working. On Braun's entreaty, Christophe had consented to play the piano sometimes:
and he would occasionally play on to a very late hour in the big gloomy room looking out on
to the garden. Braun would go into ecstasies.... Who is there that does not know the type that
has a passionate love for things they do not understand, or understand all wrong!--(which is
why they love them!)--Christophe did not mind: he had met so many idiots in the course of his
life! But when Braun gave vent to certain mawkish expressions of enthusiasm, he would stop
playing, and go up to his room without a word. Braun grasped the truth at last, and put a stopper
on his reflections. Besides, his love for music was quickly sated: he could never listen with
any attention for more than a quarter of an hour on end: he would pick up his paper, or doze
off, and leave Christophe in peace. Anna would sit back in her chair and say nothing: she would
have her work in her lap and seem to be working: but her eyes were always staring and her hands
never moved. Sometimes she would go out without a sound in the middle of a piece, and be seen
no more.

       *       *       *       *       *

So the days passed. Christophe regained his strength. Braun's heavy but kindly attentions,
the tranquillity of the household, the restful regularity of such a domestic life, the extremely
nourishing German food, restored him to his old robustness. His physical health was repaired:
but his moral machinery was still out of gear. His new vigor only served to accentuate the
disorder of his mind, which could not recover its balance, like a badly ballasted ship which
will turn turtle on the smallest shock.

He was profoundly lonely. He could have no intellectual intimacy with Braun. His relations
with Anna were reduced, with a few exceptions, to saying good-morning and good-night. His dealings
with his pupils were rather hostile than otherwise: for he hardly hid from them his opinion
that the best thing for them to do was to give up music altogether. He knew nobody. It was
not only his fault, though he had hidden himself away since his loss. People held aloof from him.

